https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17568801-zealot
Look, see the tall guy with the long hair and wearing sandals over by the camel?""Yeah.""That's my brother James." We all wave."Hey." Says James."Oh, I read about him in the book I mentioned, Zealot, he played a big part in early Christianity but then he was downplayed because of the whole virgin Mary story." I said."That's odd.
Some Christians believe the Bible is THE word of God and not a book of parables, this resulted in a lot of ugly antisemitism over the years.
God. I'm just done with Part I of this book, which is a breathless roller-coaster of a narrative that seems to meld the painfully bureaucratic themes of "The Wire" with the ferocity of "Game of Thrones" to describe the world that was Jerusalem under Roman occupation before, during and after the life of Jesus of Nazareth.
The author's attempt here, unlike Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens, is not to ridicule the contradictions in the New Testament, but to rather present as historical a narrative as possible to describe the world of Jesus.
Because Jesus was crucified, we have to assume he was a violent revolutionary.As Aslan tells us, Pilate, the Roman governor of Palestine at the time of Jesus, was a coldhearted man who had no patience for any of the Jews’ religious beliefs and especially for their “messiahs” who saw themselves as kings and thus challenged the power of Rome.
A lot of people simply do not want to read historical facts especially if it conflicts with their faith.
But hopefully cooler heads will prevail as people read this book and examine Aslan's evidence for his claims about Jesus.But they are not really his claims.
Where the author excels is taking all this information about the time of Jesus and presenting in a coherent, detailed and very entertaining format.
But other times, Aslan discredits events, such as the resurrection, as being "Faith events" and not one of historical relevance for study.
1 Samuel 15:2–3But, for some reason, abortion is now considered supah-bad in the eyes of the Christian God. Now, putting aside the fact that the New Testament says nothing one way or the other about the good old fashioned coat hanger abortion, it makes no sense that killing the child/infant of your enemy is ok if you're staking your claim on some land, but aborting a fetus is some horrifying act of murder.
That the story Aslan tells incorporates biblical contradictions, non-sequiturs, and sheer impossibilities into a coherent narrative better than most, is a threat to which believers may feel some considerable irritation.The sharpest thorn under the dogmatic saddle is likely to be the picture Aslan creates of contemporary religious zealousness - or as we have come to call it, terrorism.
The Roman territories of the Middle East - Syria, Judea, Galilee, Samaria - according to Aslan, are little different today than they were at the start of the Christian Era. A series of heavy-handed governmental regimes, self-serving religious establishments and radical religious sects are the main components of civil strife and violence - then and now.
The historical Jesus was a Jew speaking to Jews his entire life with a mission to reform the toxic relationship between the ruling Romans and the high priests of the Jewish temple.
It is detailed, compelling scholarship, balanced in its judgments but sharply critical of scholars who have chosen to ignore the evidence he has producedAslan’s most significant observation is that all the gospel material—all that we think we know about Jesus’s life and ministry--was written after the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple that anchored it, that is, after the Jewish people had been entirely dispersed from Palestine.
Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth by Reza Aslan is a study of the historical Jesus and the Jewish people and their relationship with the Romans.
Aslan writes about the historic Jesus and not the divine Jesus.
Aslan provides a good history of the Jewish people and the Roman occupations.
Paul is also covered in the book and his rise to prominence over James the Just, brother of Jesus.
Zealot will make you rethink what you know about the New Testament and Jesus.
Alslan writes a very well thought out book and a very well supported book.
For the Exhaustive Review: CLICK HERE> In The Shadow Of The Cross: Jesus, before The Christ Once Upon a Time, there was a Great Empire. At its very edges, hardly noticed, was a small region. A minor kingdom in fact. A Theocracy of sorts, now. The Empire was not too concerned about them, but they knew in their hearts that they were the Chosen People. Their religious books and prophesies told them as much. They believed fervently that one day a savior will come and return the kingdom of god and
The story of the zealous Galilean peasant and Jewish nationalist who donned the mantle of messiah and launched a foolhardy rebellion against the corrupt Temple priesthood and the vicious Roman occupation comes to an abrupt end, not with his death on the cross, nor with the empty tomb, but at the first moment one of his followers dares suggest he is God. The process was accelerated by the Diaspora Jews who spread out and started preaching the Gospel (good news) of Jesus far and wide, far also from the Temple.
Not only the years when he was alive but also the key years before his birth and the following events not only the destruction of Jerusalem by the Roman Empire but also the conversion of that reign to Christianity.I think that's obvious but I want to mention that any reader who decides to read this book or any similar, well, they will find contradictory facts with the ones on the Bible.
I mean, I am Catholic, I believe in God, but I don't find anything wrong to read research books since my faith is so strong that knowing that biblical events may happened in a different way won't diminish my believing on a higher power.Victors are the writers of history.
Taking those repetitive moments in mind when the same stories and lessons were rehashed, Aslan wrestles the story of Jesus away from the documented Gospels (Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John) and applies historical fact, thereby developing a strong and documented biography.
Eye opening and very educational in this week's lead-up to the death of the man known as Jesus of Nazareth, a book that is sure to stir up many emotions.Aslan lays some of the strong groundwork at the outset by explaining to the reader that the four Gospels best known for depicting the inculcated biography of Jesus do so from the 'Christ' perspective rather than that of his manliness.
It happened when Aslan was attending an evangelical summer camp in California: "For a kid raised in a motley family of lukewarm Muslims and exuberant atheists, [Jesus' sacrifice and resurrection] was truly the greatest story ever told.
Accepting him into my heart was as close as I could get to feeling truly American."Aslan, who became a religious scholar, goes on to explain his interest in the origins of Christianity: "The moment I returned home from camp, I began eagerly to share the good news of Jesus Christ with my friends and family, my neighbors and classmates, with people I'd just met and with strangers on the street: those who heard it gladly, and those who threw it back in my face.
It goes without saying that these attempts all backfired and the book is now a New York Times bestseller.The main points of his argument can be found in Chapter 10, "May Your Kingdom Come".
In it, he summarizes his main point that Jesus Christ was a Zealot - that is, a Jewish rebel who advocated violent sedition against the Roman Empire.
That is to say, they were less interested in what actually happened, than in what it meant." ― Reza Aslan, Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of NazarethLet me just throw in here now that Fox skeptics need not worry, while this book was written by a Muslim, it wasn't written by that damn lion from Narnia.
The books good points: compelling, well-written, challenged a lot of well traveled myth-making by Christianity, Islam, etc., about the life and acts of Jesus of Nazareth.
The bad points: there wasn't much NEW history here.
Fox New prefect Rogerios Aīlātos is not impressed and washes his hands of Aslan.
Still, he not only fails to recognize the very existence of differing views, but also misses the most interesting thing about Mark's Gospel - that while written by a Jew for gentiles, the gospel's theology represents a deeply Jewish Christian text and that it advocates an Adoptionist world view (that Jesus was not born divine, but adopted later by God), an idea that was declared heretical at Nicaea.I was likewise uncomfortable with Aslan's tendency to pick and choose passages from the various Gospels to construct his Jesus.
I think this book is controversial because people can't separate Jesus the Man from Jesus the Messiah.
I read a review of this book that raged at how disrespectful the author is to imply that Jesus was a radical and a religious zealot.
Jesus of Nazareth was preaching overthrow of the Roman Government.
He was preaching that the poor should rise up against the State because the only laws they should follow are the laws of God. Jesus was committing Sedition everytime he said these things.
I don't think Jesus of Nazareth even recognizes modern religion.
The notes were all at the end (in the ebook- and I wish that they were footnoted throughout the book to give greater clarity and breadth as I was reading).The other great difficulty I had was most of this book was conjecture but often not labeled as such.
You only understand this fully when you read the notes and again they were not linked to the text in the e-book.I learned a great deal and it whetted my appetite to learn more about the historical Jesus.
Even non-canonical works from the period of the early Christian church are problematic for the professor, as they are infused with spiritual mysticism that most assuredly is not written as contemporary views of history seek to do.To his credit, Aslan acknowledges these shortcomings early on in his book, preparing the reader for his slicing and dicing of scriptural references.Due to a worldview that is substantially different from that of the author, it gets annoying having him denounce parts of the Bible as “outlandish,” “patently absurd,” “troublesome,” and “inaccurate.” However, despite my annoyance with his treatment of what I consider Holy Scripture, he presents some information I found fascinating.Other men, both contemporaries of Jesus Christ, and those that came before and after him, are mentioned as claiming to be messiahs.
Aslan is a good writer, he knows how to put an exciting yarn on paper.
He is, unfortunately, also a poor theologian and "Zealot" certainly doesn`t do what it says on the tin.
"Zealot" is riddled with factual errors and based on an extremely limited selection of verses from the hypothetical Q-source.
Riddled with errors big and small, from misidentifying the temple coin to stating that faith in the Resurrection of Christ was mostly due to the low level of education of the average Galilean peasant, this book is best left for the pulping engines.
I think the people who are offended by this book are being automatically defensive because that is exactly the claim they think a book like this would be making, whereas the book simply presents a different "knowing" of Jesus.
People back then wouldn't understand the concept of historical accuracy, what they looked for was a portrayal that got at the "truth" of who Jesus was, regardless of whether or not things actually happened that way.What Reza did here (while standing on the backs of a lot of other research) was to put what little we know about Jesus in the context of ancient Rome, which we do know a lot about.
Dr. Reza Aslan sets forth at once a fascinating, insightful, and impassioned study of the historical life of Jesus.
In portraying Jesus as a man with all his lifelike faults and ambitions, Aslan brings us closer to understanding the individual who became known as Christ better than any scholarly investigation before.
Even more inspirational is seeing Jesus as the Son of Man on earth, living on behalf of God, his brief life essentially an aspiration towards kingship in line with the Davidic order.Aslan's research and dedication to this project are unparalleled.
Dr. Aslan's book should be welcomed, not derided.
The high priest and other Jews had no authority to kill Jesus whereas the Romans routinely killed people like Jesus.- There were a lot of people back then who were miracle workers, magicians, etc.
Paul said all you have to do is believe in Jesus and you'll be saved, whereas James supported upholding the Jewish laws.
I didn't know he completely misrepresented Jesus the man until reading this book.
If I'm gonna be a Christian, I'm not going to value much of what Paul believes or says.A lot of people think the Bible is infallible, but this simply can't be true.
This is what you will take away from biblical scholar Reza Aslan's Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth.After having read the book, I can't disagree with his conclusions.
Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth drove home these points.
However, by the midway point Aslan really begins tearing down Jesus, denying the miracles, calling him out on his lack of messianic achievements, and basically attempting to reveal that Jesus was just a Jewish hero, not a Christian god.
I don't need all the extracurricular Christian activities, I just like the "be a good person" message and I'll continue to live by that, regardless of what really happened 2000 years ago.
Also, if you stop to look up a reference, you may find out the problem can go beyond misunderstanding or misrepresenting the source; sometimes what he claims the source said isn't even there:In Jerusalem, a holy man named Jesus son of Ananias suddenly appeared, prophesying the destruction of the city and the imminent return of the messiah.
For the Sake of Heaven and Earth: The New Encounter Between Judaism and Christianity Aslan doesn't say where he got the concept; doesn't reference it.(Revised on April 9 and April 28, 2016)-----------------------------------------------AppendixThe name of Mircea Eliade came up not long ago in the context of a friend's review of another book.
Not that it changed anything for my spiritual life as a catholic, but the point is, this is very important information to have stored in your head and to connect with everything else you know about Christianity.
Contrary to some reviewers who complained about the historic Jesus being portrayed as a "violent revolutionary", Aslan does not present Jesus as a violent person.
The "revolutionary" side of Jesus, even if not violent, and therefore maybe more correctly a "reformer" or "renewed" of the Jewish law, is certainly too limited to paint a full picture of him.
Nothing new to offer here. Only thing I enjoyed was pissing off my Christian friends sitting in range of my audiobook
Mr. Aslan is not interested in debunking or criticizing various doctrines; rather, he is intent upon separating "doctrines" from "likely historical facts."4) It is not surprising, therefore, that the Jesus he uncovers -- and salutes -- is quite human, very Jewish (he is a "zealous person" -- i.e., zealous for the law -- hence the title "Zealot"), and very "now" focused.
While I suspect that is true of his followers, such a statement does not explain Jesus' rather thorough knowledge of Jewish scriptures, including the Wisdom and Prophetic books.
Having said that I think that the author does an extraordinary job in researching his subject and trying to pull together a historical picture of what the man called Jesus's life would/might have been like.
The context of this book is factual, based on well researched, published and respected scholarly works.Separating the history of a man named Jesus from Jesus, the Christian messiah are presented as two separate concepts.
In the end, I think this book does a service to all by initiating discussion about this "man" who lived a humble life, but change the world forever.Merged review:This book was an interesting and consuming read, intriguing and challenging to what I've known about Jesus, Judaism and Christianity.
I first bought Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth in a fit of pique; I’m not sure if I ever seriously intended to read Reza Aslan’s scrupulously researched and well-conceived account of the historical Jesus.
I had seen the travesty of Aslan’s interview on Fox News, which you can witness for yourself here.
Newspapers, online news sources and NPR all carried accounts of the cringe-worthy Fox News exchange.So I impetuously bought the book in solidarity with Aslan.
But then my Presbyterian Sunday School undertook to read the book, and I’m so glad they did.
Aslan’s account of Jesus as anti-imperial revolutionary is fine, nothing new, but told with clarity and panache.
In my professional opinion he is a notch too confident in his assertions: if the Gospels are decades-after-the-fact accounts I don’t think one can “prove” much historically using them; it’s all suspect for me, though I find Aslan’s Jesus compelling.
Though some conjectures are more plausible than others, it means any interpretation of the historical Jesus is humble hypothesis, not irrefutable argument—a “take” through the extant documents and academic debates.
