https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13507212-bring-up-the-bodies
The normally flinty James Wood recently wrote what can only be characterized as an extended mash note to Hilary Mantel in the New Yorker, based on this book and its predecessor, Wolf Hall.
The Boleyns are laid at his hand to be carved.”This is so much stronger that its predecessor  Wolf Hall.
When the king wanted them out, Cromwell didn’t have to work too hard to achieve it.
Cromwell has a large task on his hands, but he was more than capable of carving up the Boleyns.
The king can’t be above his own mandates, and he has to be able to justify his brutal actions even if the entire world new he was full of rubbish and would bend the system to his own ends and act all innocent about it.
Mantel takes that interpretation a step further through dialogue, thereby making the reading of this familiar history, which otherwise holds little surprise or suspense, much more rewarding and entertaining.
She succeeds because of her fine writing skills and her ability to choose the most suitable angle from which to view the events, in this case, Thomas Cromwell, the kings secretary; it is as if the reader is perched on his shoulder, seeing everything he sees and privy to about half of his thoughts.
And we suspect that the other half of his thoughts are so secret that even he, Thomas Cromwell has little access to them.
So, I was prepared to like this book, but not love it as much as I did Wolf Hall.
(This has happened to me before, but this time it felt different.) And though when I awoke, I couldn't remember any of what I'd dreamed (if dreaming is what it was), I knew the procession of words was due to this book.
And when you see the culmination of his remembering all, it is chilling.Much of what I wrote in my review of Wolf Hall may be inserted here.
Like the title of Wolf Hall, this title has a different meaning than you might think (unless you are exceptionally in-the-know).
Here is one....The books of Hilary Mantel on Thomas Cromwell are superb, grande.
I give a slight preference to Wolf Hall, because that book was groundbreaking, a new take on this famous piece of history, seen through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell.
'All five.' 'A gentleman asked me, if this is what Cromwell does to the cardinal's lesser enemies, what will he do by and by to the King himself?I am now watching the dvd of the BBC series that I was very careful not to touch while I was still reading the book...
I do hope Ms. Mantel continues the Cromwell / Henry VIII story until the very end....
Aaaahhh. Fine, fine, fine. The final last paragraph -- perfect.Cromwell now to me will always be "he, Cromwell". This little stylistic flourish did add clarity, compared with Wolf Hall. To purposefully use just "he" in the first book was at times confusing, forcing one to stop and step out of the story to regain one's bearings. Sort of like breaking the fourth wall -- and perhaps that was the point then, a metafictional technique? but it was too intrusive. This book just sailed on from Wolf Hall. Immersion was swift and total.Another Booker winner, I hope.
His whole career has been an education in hypocrisy. Eyes that once skewered him now kindle with simulated regard. Hands that would like to knock his hat off now reach out to take his hand, sometimes in a crushing grip. He has spun his enemies to face him, to join him: as in a dance. He means to spin them away again, so they look down the long cold vista of their years: so they feel the wind, the wind of exposed places, that cuts to the bone: so they bed down in ruins, and wake up cold. Be car
After getting his heart’s desire, which required him to take on the Catholic Church, one might imagine him speaking to Thomas Cromwell as Ollie might have said to Laurel, “Well, here’s another nice mess you’ve gotten me into!” nicely demonstrating an inability to accept any responsibility for his own actions.
And so continues the tale, in book 2 of Hilary Mantel’s trilogy about Tudor England.Hilary MantelThe end of Wolf Hall (You read Wolf Hall, right?
In laying this out, Hilary Mantel also offers us a look at how the reins of power can be abused by the unscrupulous, and Thomas Cromwell is shown in his full unscrupulousness in this volume.
I loved this second book about Thomas Cromwell and King Henry VIII even more than the first one!I started reading Bring Up the Bodies as soon as I finished Wolf Hall, and I've enjoyed this series so much I'm excited for Mantel's third volume, whenever it's published.
While Wolf Hall focused on the rise of Anne Boleyn and how she became Queen of England, Bring Up the Bodies is about how the King decides to leave Anne when she can't give him a son, and her subsequent downfall and execution.
You tousle its mane and pull its ears, but all the time you're thinking, those claws, those claws, those claws.""What is the nature of the border between truth and lies?
Hilary Mantel's brilliant trilogy about Thomas Cromwell continues with Bring Up the Bodies.Cromwell is the right-hand man of Henry the VIII.
Now he has to get her off of it without losing his own head in the process.Mantel doesn't just tell history, she makes it come alive.In one scene I can't get out of my head: Henry has a temper tantrum because of the Spanish ambassador's continued disrespect towards his new wife, Anne, and the repeated requests from the Spanish crown for money owed.
Bring Up the Bodies is one of the best books I've read this year.
I tore through the book in a few days, and I am eagerly anticipating the third and final installment in the series.Most of the joy of "Bring up the Bodies" is Mantel's lovely writing, and her masterful creation and depiction of the series' main protagonist Thomas Cromwell.
This stylistic choice further adds to the novel's strengths as a well written text.As already mentioned, one of the main pleasures of this book is Mantel's creation of Cromwell, a historical figure we actually don't know a lot about.
Although "Bring up the Bodies" is less episodic and quicker to read than "Wolf Hall" it is no less enjoyable, and I can't wait for the next one!
It’s slightly different in tone and texture to Wolf Hall though.
Less richly dense and intimate; quicker paced, covering as it does a much smaller time frame than Wolf Hall.
I read somewhere Mantel heeded criticism of her excessive and confusing use of the pronoun he in Wolf Hall.
And it’s true she is much clearer here, always referring to Cromwell by name whenever there might be confusion.
Cromwell becomes like Wolsey’s avenging angel, as if it’s been Wolsey all along he’s been working for and not the King.
Reading between the lines you feel Mantel thinks these men were guilty but not guilty as charged.
So, when I read Hilary Mantel's "Wolf Hall" two months ago, at first I struggled understanding that book's historical backdrop and I found myself Googling so many names and places.
In fact, I resumed reading this two days ago and since we had a 4-day weekend (last day is today) due to the holidays, I had a busy New Year that I used mainly for finishing this book.The book is the continuation of Henry VIII's life story in the eyes of his chief minister Thomas Cromwell.
I have never seen this kind of beautiful prose in any recent read or not even in any of the past Booker winning books.
Almost anything can be turned around: out of every ditch, a path, if you can only see it.” ― Hilary Mantel, Bring Up the Bodies100 pages in and it is hard to miss that this isn't just a nominal sequel to Wolf Hall, but rather the first book's logical annex.
Again, Mantel manages to shift form, change structure and reinvent her style.
She even manages to give the character of Thomas Cromwell more depth and complexity, a feat which seemed near impossible after finishing Wolf Hall.
We aren't afraid because Cromwell is a monster, but because he is so heroically human.
"Când se gândește la cum era el pe atunci, n-are nevoie să fie indulgent, dar nici vinovat nu se simte. Dintotdeauna a făcut tot ce-a fost în stare pentru a supraviețui, iar dacă a apreciat uneori de ce anume era nevoie pentru asta... ei bine, asta înseamnă să fii tânăr.""Catastrofele din viața ta nu sunt de fapt catastrofe. Poți să profiți de aproape orice: de faptul că ai căzut într-un șanț, de orice potecă, doar s-o poți vedea."
4.5★ "You perceive it is an old song that I am trying to rework. What pairs with blue? Apart from 'new'?"          I had a little bit of trouble getting into Cromwell's head in this book, the second in Mantel's Oliver Cromwell trilogy, but once I was there I was there. What the book really successfully replicated was the quite bewildering speed Henry VIII went off Anne Boleyn. One Tudor minute he was so obsessed with Anne that he was prepared to risk his crown and reputation, the next he could h
I had a little bit of trouble getting into Cromwell's head in this book, the second in Mantel's Oliver Cromwell trilogy, but once I was there I was there.
What the book really successfully replicated was the quite bewildering speed Henry VIII went off Anne Boleyn.
One Tudor minute he was so obsessed with Anne that he was prepared to risk his crown and reputation, the next he could hardly stand the sight of her.
Of course he needed a male heir, but there was more to it than that & Mantel recounts this well.
The latest release time I could find is some time in 2019.https://www.theguardian.com/books/201...
I began this with tremendous trepidation.
I loved Wolf Hall and kept wondering if this could possibly hold up, thinking of all those times when a sequel didn't.
For those of you wondering that too, let me assure you: this is a great novel in its own right, and a more-than-worthy sequel.
Mantel is again at the top of her game, writing with the same incisiveness and the same narrative drive that made Wolf Hall so fantastic.
You know from the opening pages that you're in the perfect hands to tell this story.
Count me in to the Hilary Mantel fan club.
It admittedly clears up a lot of potential confusion, but I stick by what I said in my review of Wolf Hall, that it renders the “he” altogether redundant and it’s a clumsy solution compared to the simplicity and clarity of just using a character’s name where appropriate!Mantel’s strength is still her expansive knowledge of the English language, her storycraft in creating a compelling plot, and her attention to detail which bring the book alive.
Thomas Cromwell doesn't have the same rich character arc that he had in Wolf Hall: he's on top and he stays on top.
And King Henry doesn't struggle against the same array of opponents in this book, he just decides to do what most everybody has been wanting him to do all along.Above all I think I was frustrated that Mantel was so scrupulous about the historical record.
She never takes a stand on any of the charges against Anne: did Anne ever love Henry?
was she capable of love, or only ambition?
or was it just spiteful gossip exaggerating her narcissistic need for male attention?
Fault must be found and blame proportioned: “Weston because he is reckless, Brereton because he is old in sin, Mark because he is ambitious, Henry Norris because he is familiar, he is close, he has confused his own person with the person of the king; and George Boleyn, not despite being her brother, but because he is her brother.” Regardless of his own personal feelings in the matter, Cromwell seeks to fulfil the task which Henry has set him; present the guilty, not to Henry for he has absented himself, but to the court of England.
The second book in Hilary Mantel’s amazing series on the life of Thomas Cromwell.
I seem to have an unlimited capacity for viewing the Anne Boleyn story from different points of view.
Even knowing all the historical details and knowing the part Cromwell played in it, Cromwell always seemed like a background figure to me.
Having read these two books, there is another historical figure who has come to life for me.
I want to know what happened to Cromwell, his family and associates after the death of Anne Boleyn.
I do not know when it is due out, but it is high on my list of books to buy.
Everybody knows this story, of Catherine of Aragon, Henry the VIII, and Anne Boleyn, but that story has never been told like this before.
No, it's Mantel's ability to take us right inside the corridors and rooms, and up and down the staircases, of the royal Tudor court.
The scene inside the tent where Henry is taken after he falls from his horse during a tournament is an amazing evocation of place and personality written in the most amazing prose.
While you're reading it, you are completely transported, you are there.
I was astonished over and over again reading this book.
Cromwell is in charge, as much as anyone who is not the King or a member of the nobility can be.
The inner workings at the various royal courts and Cromwell's now multiple homes are intense and exciting.
The King gives him titles that no one abroad understands, and jobs that no one at  home can do.
141)Mantel's Cromwell (sometimes also named Cremuel) is a complicated man, constantly thinking four or five --or a dozen--steps ahead, to protect himself, his family and his King.
No stronger 5 than this.Addendum: Mantel provides an interesting postscript on her thoughts about Cromwell.
Finishing a book that makes you work can feel thrilling, but not when the effort is born out of frustration.So it was with no small amount of trepidation that I picked up its sequel and plunged back into the world of Thomas Cromwell and the court of Henry VIII.
I expected to rely on the family trees and extensive character guides at the beginning of the novel (as I did with Hall), but I was pleasantly surprised to find that I fell back into the world of Henry VIII with ease and a great deal of familiarity.
Surprisingly, he's the good cop.The King wants rid of Anne, so Cromwell finds men who are guilty, just not necessarily guilty as charged.
I wonder (she muses) - is there any way of knowing if women were more likely to get infectious diseases back in the early 16th century?
I mean I know childbirth was a killer, but I have this theory that if women were kept at home more, didn't have as much contact as the men who were riding around in all weathers and meeting lots of people, then their immune system wouldn't have been up to much.Anyways: no Wolsey, no women.
Hilary Mantel’s Booker-winning Wolf Hall, though fascinating, was a chore to get through – so it was with some misgivings that I picked up this book, the sequel; I was resigned to getting bored, but too entranced with Tudor England and Henry VIII’s court to leave the story.
However, I was pleasantly surprised… no, that’s too mild a term, I was floored!
Bring up the Bodies is one humdinger of a read.
While Wolf Hall was ponderous, the sequel is breezy, without losing any of the beauty of the language.
Read the full review on my 
Description: Though he battled for seven years to marry her, Henry is disenchanted with Anne Boleyn.
When the discarded Katherine dies in exile from the court, Anne stands starkly exposed, the focus of gossip and malice.At a word from Henry, Thomas Cromwell is ready to bring her down.
But Anne and her powerful family will not yield without a ferocious struggle.
Hilary Mantel's "Bring Up the Bodies" follows the dramatic trial of the queen and her suitors for adultery and treason.
I breezed through Bring Up the Bodies knowing the history and was pretty au fait with Mantel's style idiosyncrasies.Bring Up the TV series!
It is likely a style-preference plus my apathy for the role and impact of Cromwell on the Tudor monarchy.On language and style, I can certainly appreciate that many folks love her approach - look at the success of Game of Thrones (also something I've never been much tempted to read/watch).
This happened repeatedly, and while his flashbacks to his younger days happened pretty seamlessly, his fantasy life expounding upon his wishes was just screwy.As for my apathy, perhaps because I read The Other Boleyn Girl ages ago, I already knew the entire story line about deposing Anne Boleyn, excepting the minutia about Cromwell's role.
His name is Cromwell, the Master Puppeteer.Whatever she imagines him slapping on the dinner table, even in jest, I just don't care.
4.5 starsIt’s a while since I read Wolf Hall, but Mantel does a good job of filling in gaps in my memory.
Cromwell is as ruthless and manipulative as ever; but it is fascinating seeing things from his point of view.
Being a bit of an old Tudor hack from my undergraduate days these books are a fascinating take on an era I know fairly well.
Cromwell, it has been argued, was the developer of modern bureaucratic government (he has a good deal to answer for then!).
She fills in the historical gaps in Cromwell’s life and in the historical accounts in an intelligent and believable way.
But compared to my 5-star experience of Wolf Hall, Bring Up The Bodies didn't quite come up to scratch and, although my opinion hovers somewhere around the 4.5 range, being constrained to whole numbers I'm giving it 4 stars to make the distinction.Get it?
It's these flights of imagery that made Wolf Hall transcend the ordinary reading experience for me, and there was a big desert in the middle of Bodies where all we got was dialogue and short, efficient bursts of narrative; well written, indeed, but not exciting.Perhaps it was the subject-matter at this point, because for quite a while Cromwell is caught up in the political maneuvering that leads up to Anne's demise.
‘I really believe, Cromwell, that you think you are king, and I am the blacksmith’s boy.’He will never claim, later, that his heart did not turn over.
In the flames you need a cool head, when sparks are flying to the rafters you must note when they fall on you and knock the fire away with one swat of your hard palm: a man who panics is no use in a shop full of molten metal.When Henry tasks Cromwell to find some way of dumping Boleyn and getting an annulment, he has a chance to become indispensable again.
