https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13659.Tales_from_Earthsea
Ursula as wonderful as always.
I got this as a gift, from a friend who knew I'd read the Earthsea books (the first four) more than once.These tales are based on the world of Earthsea, and the author reports that they are best read 'after' reading the first four novels of the Earthsea collection.
to just explore the emotion that was flowing through my body.
And to say a quiet Thank You to Ms. LeGuin for her incredible prose.If you enjoyed the Earthsea books, you will find this set of tales a great addition.
She's just clothed her wonderful explorations in a different milieu than contemporary times.
Sanırım seride kadınların toplumda kabul görmesi gerektiğini, erkeklerden bir farkları olmadığını en çok vurgulayan kitap buydu. Bir de herkese gerçek adımızı söylüyoruz, acaba insanlara fazla mı güveniyoruz?
"But I thought you'd tell it to me-the password.""The password he will ask you for is your true name."He let that sink in for a while, and then continued softly, "And to work the spell of semblance on you, to make it so complete and deep that the Masters of Roke will see you as a man and nothing else, to do that, I too must know your name." He paused again.
I think you have another.""I don't know it, sir."After another long time she said, "Maybe I can learn it here, sir."(view spoiler)[The Doorkeeper bowed his head a little.
3. kitapta bitmiş serinin 5. uzamış halkası gibi.Kavramlar, yöntem ve ifadeler aynı mı gelmeye başladı yoksa bir körü kitap mı bunu da son kitapta anlayacağız sanırım.Gerçekten bitirmekte çok zorlandım.
Muhtesemdi!
Serinin onceki kurgulariyla paralel hikayelerden olusuyordu.
Ne ara sonuna geldin anlamadim.
Ozellikle "Iriali"...
Bu serinin her kitabindan ayri bir keyif aldim.
Her ne kadar Ged'in kendine has oykusunu cok ozlemis olsam da yeni karakterlerle tanismak guzeldi.
Nasil bir hayal dunyasidir Le Guin'inki bilmiyorum...
Ama cok derin oldugu hissettigim tek sey.
Satir aralarinda dusunduren cumleler vardi.
Dikkatimi cekenlerden bazilari sunlar: "Eğer kendimizden başka herkes köle olacaksa, bizim hürriyetimizin kıymeti ne olacak?" "Cehalet içindeki güç felakettir!""Olmaman gereken bir sürü yere gitmeden nerede olman ge­rektiğini bilmek ender bulunan vergilerden biridir."" İyi bir şey yapmanın tehlikesi, aklın iyilik niyeti ile işleri doğru dürüst yapma eylemini karıştırmasında yatar." "Dinlemek, insana zor nasip olan bir vergidir; üstelik insanlar kahramanları olsun isterler." "Eğer bir kelime iyi ediyorsa, bir başkası da yaralar,""Haksızlik kurallari yaratir.
‘Dragonfly’, on the other hand, is necessary (to my mind) to really understanding The Other Wind, and should definitely be read first.
It introduces a character who becomes important, and events which are referred to throughout the novel.As for the writing of the stories themselves, well: Ursula Le Guin’s prose is as fine as you would expect, and the words are precise and crisp and each placed exactly right.
The glimpses of history and other places which we get in these stories is worth the price of entry, too.
I think ‘Darkrose and Diamond’, for instance, is incredibly slight compared to Ged’s story, but on the other hand it does reflect on some of the same themes as Tehanu.
-3.5-
UKL is one of my favorite authors of all time, one of two authors (along with Tolkien) whose fantasy I love because it feels real to me down to the deepest level.
This book is five stories set in the same world as her Earthsea novels.
One is from the time that Ged is Archmage.
Another is from after his time.
They all have her subtlety and sense of power and reality: how life really is, and how it feels to different types and classes of people.
I think all her books would be marvelous read aloud.
If you haven't read the Earthsea books yet, read them all, then read this collection.
These stories were not nearly as compelling as the first four Earthsea books, either in the plot or the writing.
Also, several stories seem overly concerned with demonstrating that women have more importance in Earthsea than the fist three books indicate, especially the last story, "Dragonfly." This story and the first one, "The Finder," read as though the author is trying to re-write women into the Earthsea stories as an afterthought.
I didn't mind their near absence in the first three books, so their post-hoc addition in these stories doesn't interest me much.The stories are mostly entertaining, but the women-equality themes in "Dragonfly" overpower the rest of the story.
It’s set long before the first Earthsea book during a time when people with magical abilities were feared and either killed or forced to work for powerful men for ignoble purposes.
I enjoyed this story, and I liked Otter.The second story, Darkrose and Diamond, didn’t have any direct connection to anything from the previous Earthsea books.
Like most of the main characters throughout this series, she has power.
I’m assuming she will be a major character in the sixth book.The author really tells a lot of different “coming of age” stories within this one series.
Εκδόθηκε το 2001, 33 χρόνια μετά το μάγο του αρχιπελάγους και κάνει μια αναδρομή μάλλον προς τα πίσω, ξεκαθαρίζοντας την ιστορία της Γαιοθάλασσας, μέχρι το σημείο που άρχισε η διήγηση και με μια bonus ιστορία που αποτελεί τον προθάλαμο για το τελικό κλείσιμο του έπους.
Δε λέω πως ήταν κακό, αλλά μου έλειψε η δράση των προηγούμενων.Αυτό που λάτρεψα ήταν το παράρτημα στο τέλος: μια εκτενής περιγραφή των λαών της Γαιοθάλασσας και των χαρακτηριστικών τους, τα οποία με έβαλαν για καλά μέσα στον κόσμο της Le Guin και με έκαναν να δω με άλλο μάτι τα προηγούμενα βιβλία.
Yeni karakterlerle tanışmak, eskileriyle bir daha karşılaşmak oldukça güzeldi.
Çok geniş bir hayal gücünün ve derin bir ruhun öyküleri, Yerdeniz'in öyküleri.
Ne kadar başka bir dünya yaratmış olsa da; bir o kadar da yaşadığımız dünyaya sıkı sıkıya bağlı.
Ormanın köklerine uzanmanın; uzanıp yukarı baktığında yaprakların arasından birer birer çıkan yıldızlara dokunmanın; bir sincabın seslenişini, bir alakarganın ona cevap verişini duymanın; hiçbir memnuniyetsizlik ve telaş duymadan orada öylece beklemenin mutluluğuna erişebildiğin bir dünya, Yerdeniz.
Yaprakları duy." Sanırım bir süre sonra yaprakların sesi kendi sesimize dönüşüyor; doğayı dinlerken insan en çok kendisini dinliyor ve kendisiyle birlikte doğanın da farkına varıyor.
Yaprakların sesini duyabileceğimiz zamanlar dilerim.
benim için biraz verimsiz bir okuma oldu. serinin diğer 4 kitabını 5 sene okuduğum için bu kitap boyunca sürekli bir şeyler hatırlamaya çalıştım. bu verimsizliğime rağmen öyküleri çok beğendim. uzun vadeli hedefim seriyi baştan sona ara vermeden okumak.
Back then, I plowed through the original trilogy and was sort of surprised by Tehanu, which I found kind of slow.
These 5 stories showed me that sometimes thoughtful, strong, tree-like characters are more interesting than ACTION-PACKED ACTION.
They're beautiful and important, all thoughtfully exploring issues of gender, different kinds of power (learned versus experienced), and love.I'm even convinced that my Tehanu impressions need to be adjusted, and I'll go back and reread it now that I finished these stories.
You should do the first trilogy, followed by Tehanu, Tales, and then The Other Wind.)
Tales from Earth Sea (The Earthsea Cycle, #5), Ursula K. Le Guinعنوان: دریای زمین کتاب 5 - سنجاقک؛ نویسنده: ارسولا کی. لوژوان (لگوین)؛ مترجم: پیمان اسماعیلیان خامنه؛ ویراستار: نیلوفر خانمحمدی؛ تهران، قدیانی، 1386، در 528 ص، جلد 5 از مجموعه شش کتاب در شش جلد؛ شابک دوره: 9789645365835؛ شابک کتاب 5: 9789645362810؛ موضوع: داستانهای خیال انگیز از نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 مپنج قصه از قلمرو خیالی : یابنده، دل زمین، رز سیاه و دایموند، در گستره ی باتلاق، سنجاقک
Y fue el consuelo perfecto porque Terramar siempre es como un hogar al que volver.Lo que más me llevo de estos relatos es conocer más sobre la historia de este mundo, sobre todo de dos cosas en particular: el origen de la escuela de Roke y el papel de las mujeres en la magia y en Roke, que en la época de Ged se convirtió en algo muy diferente.
Creo que era algo que le faltaba a la saga y que complementa muchísimo, sobre todo después de Tehanu.
Ursula Le Guin is a very good writer and the 'Earthsea' series of books are worthwhile reading.
These short stories which are set at various times throughout the history of her invented world often relate to an event sometimes only touched on in the other books.
We also meet some of the characters from the five main books in these tales.
I read 'Tales of Earthsea' as my finale and can't honestly say I experienced any real difficulty with 'The Other Wind' because of this.
Whilst I still think the original three books remain the best, the whole series is most definitely worth reading.
Overall Rating: 3.5*It's cool how Ursula tried to show some cohesion between all the stories and the different events and histories that preceded them.
I mean, yes, in regards to giving us a broader feel of Earthsea, she did a remarkable job, but as for reeling us in, getting us to feel for the characters, capture empathy and all that, it wasn't really working.
Anyway, here are my individual ratings for each story:The Finder: 3.5*Dark Rose & Diamond: 3.0*The Bones of The Earth: 2.5*On The High Marsh: 3*Dragonfly: 4*A Description of Earthsea: 3*
8/10
I'm still uneasy about the fact that LeGuin felt the need to go back and change Earthsea, make it more "politically correct"- but, if you can get over that, her writing is still quite good.
"The Bones of the Earth" was probably my favorite story of five, brief and heart-wrenching.
"Dragonfly" was good also, though I'm startled by LeGuin's change of heart towards the Immanent Grove.
If I remember right, in the old books the way into the grove was known only to those who had won their staffs, and frequented only by the Masters.
Tummaruusu ja Timantti sekä Yläsuolla olivat mukavaa luettavaa, mutta enemmän makupaloja maamereläisyydestä kuin kiehtovia tai tarpeellisia.
Maan ytimet menisi samaan sarjaa, mutta Ogionin tuttuus muista kirjoista toi lisää mielenkiintoa ja tuntui tavallaan avaavan lisää myös Gediä ja Tenaria, joihin Ogionin vaikutus tietysti oli suuri.
Sudenkorento oli eri sarjaa muiden novellien kanssa, pikemminkin Toisen tuulen ennakkonäytös kuin historiakuvauspalanen.
Muutoksen tuntu ja tavallaan tieto jostakin suuremmasta olivat hienolla tavalla läsnä koko novellin ajan.
Ennakoi taitavasti Toisen tuulen tapahtumia niin kuivan maan ja kuolleiden kuin lohikäärmeidenkin osalta.
Varsinkin niiden osalta tämä solahti täsmälleen Tehanun ja Toisen tuulen väliin, mutta toimii silti myös yksittäisenä novellina.
They span the period from several centuries prior to the first volume A Wizard of Earthsea to years after the fourth Tehanu.This is the unique feature of SFF that if desired, you may get answers even to questions you haven’t initially even thought to ask.
I’m sure that when Le Guin was writing A Wizard of Earthsea, she just based the mage academy on Roke island on ‘classical’ European university, were both the faculty and pupils were male, which was not even discussed before the XIX century.
Yazısı burada : https://buyuluayrac.blogspot.com/2017...
She has no sense of pacing or plotting whatsoever, leaving the single "event" of each book or story until the last few pages, reached only after a slow and tedious preamble in which the characters sit around doing nothing (as if that's a plot point or an action of its own), and somehow we're supposed to identify with them in their non-quest for nothing.
Some of her characters show promise, but we never see it come to true fruition.I appreciate her Taoist outlook, but the Tao is not an anti-action philosophy, it is not one of sitting immobile waiting for something to happen to you, but one of movement and motion with the flow of the world around one, of graceful action in concert with the natural order.
Some of this was ok other parts were torture to read so boring I found myself skimming. I had already bought this whole series or there is no way I would finish reading it but just one more to go.
Ursula Le Guin crafted five stories worthy of being novels.
Five stories that captured all of the stories of Earthsea and yet so few.
She could go on forever and I would read them.
Simple prose carries the weight of fantastic history.
How can we be so happy to read of a woman who lives in a shack in the woods?
Because she has a humble but effective craft.
A master who wears an undyed cloak, doesn't need to dazzle us with big words, expansive landscape descriptions, and epic pilgrimages (still eyeing JRR).
The encyclopedia entry on Earthsea at the back was also fantastic, useful, and thorough.
I don't really "do" short stories, but in the interests of finishing the Earthsea series I wanted to read this. It is beautifully written, as all of the previous books are, and mostly carried by the first and last stories, which also happen to be the longest. The shortest are barely sketches of ideas, and I get why that can be useful, or enjoyable, but I enjoy much more when the characters and plot can be fleshed out in their own time. Anyway, it's still good though. Thanks, Ursula K Le Guin, you were the best.
So that's what I'll say, without revealing that I expect all stories to end in tragedy.“The Bones of the Earth”Now this one has Ogion as a young man-Silence.
If you haven't read Tehanu yet) through the story of Irian, a young woman from Way. She has a fairly simple farm life, although her father is abusive and still reeling from and railing about family squabbles over the rights to various plots of land that comprise Way. Simple, that is, until she meets a wizard come to serve another lord on Way, Ivory.
This followed Tehanu after another long break and so I've only read it twice and don't have the same relationship to it as I do with the older Earthsea books.Somehow this book is more than the sum of its parts; the individual stories are good but not excellent.
Then again, it is very different because the humans have magic and there are dragons...It was delightful to encounter Ged again, though in a story not really his.
The history of Roke was startling and an excellent way to weave some constructive Feminism into Earthsea, after the unremitting negativity of Tehanu.
