https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13065.Native_Tongue
The two thieves did not know the small creatures were voles; they were under the belief they were rats, and while escaping from the theme park they had burglarized they had playfully tossed the animals into the open windows of the rented cars of tourists on the highway.
As they drove to her house, they were already making plans for the money she would pay them.Molly McNamara, as the President of the Mothers of Wilderness, an environmental activist organization she founded, hired the two young men to break into the animal labs at the Amazing Kingdom of Thrills to rescue them from the third-rate Florida theme park, owned by a dreadful Florida land developer Francis Kingsbury.
If you've read the book, you've now collapsed on the floor howling in remembered glee.
If you haven't read the book before, well, it's time now.Mix Hiaasen's trademark hapless idiot criminals, burnt-out losers, small-minded grifters, and slimy real estate developers, add a cut-rate theme park, shake with a dose of environmentalist headline-grabbing, and *poof* you have the kind of book that makes summer beach reading so much fun.What can I add that will make a difference?
If you haven't, please do; if you have, but weren't amused, please try this one; if you have and rolled around laughing, well, we're soul mates.
Carl Hiaasen at his very best; 4 stars for the writing and story, another 1/3 for this having an even larger portion of humor + 1 star for the blue-tongued voles alone. So that comes to... all the stars! We don't need no stinking literary super high quality! We have blue-tongued rodents and Skink!
The burglar idiots think they just have a couple of rats and decide it would be fun to throw one of the rats into passing convertible just for yucks.Winder and his boss, Charles Chelsea, begin writing a series publicity articles that tries to twist the situation to make more money for the theme park.
This is Book 2 of the Skink series.
I have read almost all of the books of the series out of order.
Oh well, this a fun book with a story full of laughs.
By page 320 I was quite ready to put Carl Hiaasen's Native Tongue down.
The story follows former investigative reporter turned PR man Joe Winder as his job and the events around it at the Amazing Kingdom theme park on North Key Largo turn from bad to worse.
Through all of this, Native Tongue conjures all the best of the South Florida mystery.
A former investigative reporter himself for the Miami Herald, Hiaasen peppers all of his prose with the obscure and eccentric journalistic detail that makes the Miami crime scene so interesting to follow.
No actual feedback because I read this when I was 12 (and just found it in my mom’s books). However, I remember really enjoying it.
Mr. Hiaasen is always a good choice. This one’s about the troubles for a Walt Disney wanna be in Key Largo. Well done, funny and captivating.

I recommended this book to a large crowd of people in an airport one time because I was laughing so hard, snot was coming out of my nose and one lady finally said "WHAT are you reading?!?!". Approximately half of the crowd standing there wrote down the title and author... hope they had the same snot-laughing-experience I had! :)
Really enjoyed this book. Loved the humor injected from start to finish.
That's basically it.You know when you pick up a book by Hiaasen that you're going to get:a) Sleazy Florida land developersb) A protagonist who's a little person fighting a losing battle, but doing it with style.c) A romantic subplot, usually involving a remarkably competent womand) Theme: 'Don't tear up the everglades / gulf coast'e) A number of laugh-out-loud momentsf) An over the top bad guy, probably addicted to something bizarre.
There were, I'll admit, a couple of times when I felt it was all getting just a little too predictable - Hiaasen following a well established formula - but the final chapters got me in and cracked me up, so all was forgiven in the end.Sure, there might be a formula, but if it aint broke...
This book has more hilarious adventures of "Skink", ex-governor of Florida. Some of the wacky characters are two misfit burglars, an obsessed older woman environmentalist who shoots people plus the owner and various employees of "The Amazing Kingdom of Thrills" amusement park. All of these people interact and produce some laugh out loud lines.
You would think a book set at a cut-rate Florida theme park, featuring an environmentalist granny with an itchy trigger finger, an ambitious phone sex worker, an ex-governor living in cranky hermitry in the Everglades occasionally shooting up tourists' rental cars, bunging cops and robbers, oversexed porpoises, and "blue-tongued mango voles" would be a comedy gold mine.
And Native Tongue is funny, but while it's funny in bits and pieces, I just didn't think the book as a whole was as funny as Double Whammy or Nature Girl or Strip Tease.
Notes for myself: Characters include Joe the burn-out ex-newspaper man turned PR hack for a rip-off amusement park, that was founded by a mob guy in the witness protection program, Frankie.
The smarmy Charles Chelsea is the head of PR, Joe's boss.
Pedro, the steroid-popping head of security, is the precursor to another character in another of his books...Tool.
Endangered Panther #17 was smacked by a bottle distributing company truck on the highway, and Skink is keeping its memory alive.The other thing I really enjoyed was the "battle of press releases" between Joe and his former boss Charles...Joe's were the stuff of fantasies!
The targets include the amusement parks such as Sea World and Disney but he also takes shots at phone sex operators and their clients, steroid-pumped bodybuilders, and extreme animal lovers and birdwatchers.
Hiaasen again came up with some great characters including the ex-Mafia snitch who owned a Disney-like amusement park, the bodybuilder security guard who gnawed off his own foot to free himself from a car parked on it, the senior citizen lady environmentalist who doesn’t hesitate to shoot whoever disagrees with her, and the ex-Florida governor who lives in the Florida wilderness and wears a dead panther’s tracking collar!
If you haven't read anything by Carl Hiaasen, come see what all the fuss is about.
I'm a huge devotee, and "Native Tongue" is part of the reason.
The story takes place at an animal theme park in Florida.
As in all Hiaasen books, characters include thugs, ecoterrorists and all-round good guys.
Hiaasen is a master of crafting a seemingly lighthearted tale with a strong message underneath.
Read a Hiaasen book once a year--it's good for what ails you.
And you might even be able to stop taking anti-depressants or self-medicating with food.Other favorites of mine: "Stormy Weather," "Skin Tight" and "Skinny Dip."
My first Hiaasen.
I enjoyed it but I'm not sure I'll read any more of his.
So just middle of the road.
I did enjoy listening to it.
The narrator was great and did a wide variety of different voices.
After a while I was totally believing that different people were talking.
The story was amusing and was on the whole light hearted.
I enjoyed the setting which resonated with me as my first job as a teenager was at an amusement park.
There were plenty of characters some of whom I got really fond of.
All in all a nice read/listen.
But his roots are in investigative reporting, so he can't help but chase the story a bit when some endangered-species voles are vole-napped from the park.
Joe, a man who resents that his father was involved in destruction of Florida flora and fauna back in his day, has always been a conservationist and environmentalist, so any story about endangered species going missing gets his attention.
But the more he learns as he follows the story, the more he finds out about the corruption and anti-environment status of the park's owner, Francis Kingsbury.
(And what becomes of them in the epilogue is just icing on the cake!) Combine Molly & her crew with an IV lugging 'roid head former cop turned security guard, an unscrupulous developer who's in the witness protection program, the craziness that is the Amazing Kingdom of Thrills, and a former newspaperman who took a job doing PR for this whole mess, well, it's just pure, unadulterated Hiaasen.This was only my 2nd Skink book -- and I hope Molly wasn't just a 1 shot wonder -- but I can't wait to read more.....
After endangered blue-tongue voles are kidnapped from the park by inept bunglers at the behest of an environmental extremist, panic ensues among park employees making former investigative reporter Joe Winder's job as PR man impossible.
Things quickly spin out of control leading to mayhem and chaos that includes murder, arson, romances, and an unforgettable scene of justice realized in which a male dolphin drowns one of the villains while attempting sex with him.
Fast-paced, laugh aloud funny, improbable and absurd, the book also makes statements about the environmental exploitation of native habitats.
Characters in the book include the two bandits and an old woman (an activist who has a penchant for guns!), who get to know each other; the owner of the zoo, who has a questionable past, and some of his employees: one of the main ones being a PR script writer, who decides he doesn’t like all the lies he is asked to write to release to the media.
Then… people start dying...Hiaasen’s books always have so much going on, and plenty of zany characters!
I always like the environmental themes in his books.
This is the second “Skink” book I have read, and it was a fun read. The imagination of Carl Hiaasen amazes me. The story, the characters and dialog are all entertaining and yet, very bizarre. I will continue reading this series.
Carl Hiaasen is one of my favorite authors -- love his crazy characters and situations, and this is no exception. I'm new to Skink, but will read the other books in this series, as well as any other Hiaasen books I can get my hands on! Funny book about voles, money-grubbing real estate idiots, and of course southern Florida.
So funny!Highly recommended.
Basically just the expected Skinky fun!
Early Hiasen awesome.A wonderfully written, if at times preachy, romp. Outrageous characters, clever dialogue, and a fun plot, it’s a great read. Unfortunately, its message is still relevant today.
Another fun read from Hiassen. What I enjoy most about these tales are the colorful detail that goes into the fringe characters. It adds to the madness of an absurd storyline that is the heart and soul of Native Tounge. Loved this book!
Another example of what I like about Hiaasen - I know what I'm going to get before even starting. Fun story, characters and setting. Florida seriously is this weird - and reminds me that I'll enjoy stories like this much more once I no longer live here. The Audible version was good; narrator did a good job with the various character voices - but I thought it was interesting that Skink sounded in this book the same as Jim Tile did in Double Whammy. A little odd, but only briefly distracting.
It starts with the thievery of two adorable blue-tongued mango voles from a Disney knockoff called Amazing Kingdom of Thrills by some bum thieves who don't even know the count of what they've stolen (the last two in the world), and who think it's a great idea to lose the things before they can be handed over to the person who contracted them, specifically by throwing the little critters into unsuspecting convertibles.
I mean, Skink walks around eating roadkill for reasons best known to himself, lives with several hundreds of dead tree derivatives (books), and refuses to surrender the panther collar, making the rangers follow the thing from pillar to post in fuel burning helicopters or cars.
The rare, treasured and last two surviving specimens of the blue-tongued mango vole (similar to rats, I guess) are carelessly stolen and inevitably killed by two [bumbling] burglars hired by a 70-year-old member of the Wildlife Rescue Corps.Francis X.
is un-thrilled about this land development as well.Unlike Jack Tagger, the main character in Hiaasen's "Basket Case," Joe Winder, is dragged through the muck and mishaps at the park and into a mystery of multiple levels.
Both main characters hold similar jobs, however, and get dragged into a PI position, checking out murders, suicides, looking for evidence and clues, basically sticking their noses where they don't belong and risking their lives for a lousy job.Native Tongue was too far-fetched for me.
