https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90610.Freddy_Goes_to_Florida
Originally published in 1927 under the stultifyingly bland title "To and Again," this is the first book in what shortly evolved into the Freddy the Detective series.
Clearly the books got a lot better after he became the focus of the series -- had this been our first Freddy book, it would have been our last.
He enjoyed it unreservedly, and even I, jaded reader that I am (animals + treasure = yawn) could see hints of the gently wry humor that appealed to me so much in the later book that was our first exposure to Freddy, Freddy and the Popinjay.
It didn't feel much like a kids story, i kept having flashbacks to 'Animal Farm' which didn't help ;) .
Thats probably why the pig ends up as the centerpiece of the franchise as he's the only possible child-avatar available.For a while things plodded along and i wondered how the author would reconcile the human world with these hyper-intelligent animals.
I also have to say that a couple of events towards the end would definitely have proven fatal (and smoke doesn't wake people up!) so if reading to a child make sure to point out how homicidal these animals are :P .Overall a bit drab but there were wacky incidents that improved it as it went along.
I found this book in hardback at the Lakeland public library in 1996 when my daughter was in first grade to read aloud to her before bed.
After a run of the Black Stallion books, "Freddy goes to Florida" provided just the right comic relief with a pig protagonist: no scary wolves coming down the chimney; no running around chasing sheep; no Stalinist ideology; no threat of being hung up in the farmer's smokehouse.
Freddy the pig is sick of winter up North on Bean Farm.
These days, few travel here for its own sake -- come for the heat, stay for the bugs.
Freddy Goes to Florida by Walter R Brooks (born January 9, 1886, died August 17, 1958) is the first of the Freddy the Pig books.
Frankly it wouldn't surprise me one bit if the makers of Babe took some inspiration from the Freddy books to fill out the ensemble cast.Freddy while talking to a barn swallow decides he's had enough of winter on the farm.
The book chronicles their trip down and back, including some episodic adventures on the way.Freddy and his friends are completely ignorant on what it will take to get to Florida or what to expect along the way.

I read this aloud with my son and had some issues with it. First of all, the animals are pretty cruel to each other, especially the "married" ones, who really tear each other down. There is also abuse, such as a girl beating a cat and a man whipping his son. Lastly, it's just not that interesting. I was eager to be done with it.
It's old-fashioned. The language is great. The characters varied. I think the age of the story just makes it a challenge to really connect with this one.
Jinks also gets a robin to draw a map of the way south, and when Mr. Bean is away in town, the cat leads the migrating animals out on their journey, "with his tail held straight up in the air like a drum-major's stick." In addition to the mischievous Jinx (useful in a pinch), the traveling companions are comprised of phlegmatic Hank, the young dog Robert, the cow Mrs. Wiggins ("a character"), the pig Freddy (a songster with "an inquiring mind"), a few mice like Cousin Augustus (good at chewing through things), the white duck sisters Emma and Alice (good at teaching swimming), and the barn spider couple Mr. and Mrs. Webb (tiny-voiced and philosophical).
Meh.This is a chidren's book written in 1949, which was highly popular, apparently, back in the day, although I've never heard of them, and I'm certainly old enough.
If written today, many of the situations would be frowned upon for being "politically incorrect," or some other such nonsense, but were considered silly and funny not so long ago.Personally, I thought it was fun as a child's book goes, but it was a LOT longer than I would expect a chapter book to be for this age group.
Still, even when I was 10 years old, I would have though this was too long and too goofy for me.
Several farm animals, all of whom can talk, although humans hear only their animal sounds, are intrigued by a flock of twittering swallows and decide to migrate to Florida for the winter from a place that sounds like upstate New York.
This and subsequent Freddy stories were among the books that started me on a lifetime of reading about 60 years ago.
The Freddy books are usually seen as literature for older children but there's enough extra in this one to repay a rereading decades after the first time around.
The world would be a better place if many people found a quiet room and read this.
This was such an entertaining book.   Apparently this series was super popular back in the day (and back in my childhood--Tori, I'm looking at you!), so I was truly surprised I didn't hear of it sooner than I did.  This was a fun little romp along the east coast, and it was great watching Freddy and his pals meet the president, outwit some crocodiles, and find some gold.  This is one of the few books from the past that has actually....aged really well.  So, kudos to you, Freddy!Review cross-listed here!
This is a delightful children's book written in the late 1920's. It is a series featuring barnyard animals Freddy the pig and his friends. The animals have human characteristics among themselves while still appearing an acting entirely as animals to the humans in the story. In this installment, Freddy and some of the other animals decide to migrate south for the winter. Along the way, the animals face various trials and tribulations, including an encounters with some not-so-nice characters.Recommended!Read for graduate school at FSU: LIS 5564 Information needs of Children
I just read my Christmas gift from 1958 again, and enjoyed it immensely! We had recently moved to Florida and I enjoyed sharing Freddy's and his friends' journey. It may have been written 90 years ago, but children would still enjoy their adventure!
I was surprised to discover that this book is so old. Very good tale for kids wriiten with awesome imagination and creativity. It clearly shows how great heart the author has to have.
Very fun book to read with the kids.
What a great series to read aloud--this is the one that started it all!
Faced with yet another cold winter living in stables and barns that are insufficiently heated, Mr. Bean's animals are intrigued by a swallow's description of migration and decide to follow the birds' example and make their way to Florida.
When spring comes, they find themselves missing their old home and make the return journey...which ends up being very profitable and happy for all, including Mr. Bean.
My favorite is his song at the end of the book: "After all," he said to himself, "it's exciting to travel and have adventures but there's no place like home." ...
And however they wander, both pigs and men / Are always glad to get home again."
The joy with his stories come from a combination of great characters (Jinx the cat, Mrs. Wiggins the cow, Charles the rooster and his hen-pecking wife, Henrietta), a matter of factness from tone (this is a world where people just accept that the Bean Farm animals can talk, they think it’s a bit odd but they accept it) and an adept weaving of complex “adult” concepts into fun, breezy plots with just the right touch of suspense.
If a kid doesn’t understand what a “constituent” is before he starts reading, he will by the time Brooks is through.
This is one of the funniest, warmest books I’ve ever read! The whole family laughed and laughed! This book provides some wonderful mementoes and connections for our family. Highly recommended!
They keep walking and find a cache of gold they can give to the farmer to fix up the farm buildings; they spend their winter playing on the sand and seeing the sights in Florida; and during miles of walking, they work together to outwit the bad guys while they enjoy the scent of orange blossoms drifting on the Florida breeze.
While the animals are willing to try brute force to continue their journey if absolutely necessary, mostly they figure out ways to perservere while they trick and outhink the bad guys.Might do better as a read aloud.
A thoughtful, poetic pig, Freddy goes through a variety of professions and adventures in 26 books, spanning 30 years.
Every time my family goes on a long trip, we'll grab a Freddy audiobook from the library and - all of us are well out of middle school, by the way - settle in to enjoy the ride.
You'll find many of the things which were so delightful in the series, if rendered a bit crudely in this early attempt: the vivid characters, the entertaining yarns, the wry, no-nonsense gentle humor.
If the characters are a bit broadly drawn and the yarns a bit tedious at times, it's still a good start to a delightful series.
Especially when the animals have already become your friends (I got to know them in the book "Freddy the Detective"), and they are so clever, work together to overcome hardships, and have so many adventures?
This series of books (written by American author Walter R.
Brooks from the 1920s-1950s, and out of print for some time), is the American equivalent to English classics such as the Winnie the Pooh series and "The Wind in the Willows", according to the New York Review of Books.
You get to know and love the characters every bit as well as the barnyard animals in "Charlotte's Web." Highly recommended for children of ALL ages!
Delightful short tale of a farm “family” of animals who decided that in order to escape the cold of winter they will migrate south.
They are inspired by the tales that the traveling birds tell them of a lush place where the beds are never cold and everyone is happy.
I like that throughout the story different characters are coming up with creative solutions to their problems.
And that generally those solutions involve working together as a team, which us usually successful – along with being comical.
And the two spiders, Mr. and Mrs. Web are a delightful addition to the traveling bunch.

Noah and I read this book out of order---not realizing it came before "Freddy the Detective"---but it didn't matter too much in the end. Another great story about these colorful animal characters, who decide to skip a harsh winter at the farm and migrate to Florida. Noah was especially tickled since we live in Florida, and he loved "the Grandfather of All Alligators," who, in one scene, tells the cow Mrs. Wiggins that she'll be eaten up, "horns, hoofs, and tail." Tomorrow it's off to the library for more Freddy books for my KINDERGARTNER (he starts tomorrow). >Sniffle, sniffle.<
This is a kids book, not even YA but actually a kids book. I don't know any kids in the age range it was written for that would actually understand it but I really liked it. Felt a bit like a Pixar movie in that it has something for the big kids too. It was so beautifully written and illustrated that I didn't care who it was written for. Way more interesting to put my imagination in the real world to work (and more difficult). No vampires, no wizards, no sci-fi, no goth girls. Just a well written good story.
April, 2014: Another road trip to Florida book, this was just as good as when we first read it. John McDonaugh (aka Mr. Kangaroo) is awesome! These books are perfect kids' books. Read one of them already!June 1, 2011:Another great Freddy book. This is the very first Freddy book that Brooks wrote, so he hasn't yet fine-tuned his characters or story-telling, but it's still better than most modern children's books out there. John McDonaugh does a fabulous job reading these books. I highly recommend this series.
I have been wanting to do some read-alouds with the kids and finally got started this fall. After several Magic Tree House books (awesome, of course) we read this Freddy book. Written in 1926 it was a little dated but ultimately was a fun story of a group of farm animals in the North that decide they want to try out migrating to Florida for the winter. Picaresque-style story, a la Huck Finn. The kids were enraptured and thoroughly enjoyed the story. We won't read another Freddy story right away, but would definitely consider it in the future.
The Freddy books are a fun series which I remember reading as a young person. I enjoyed listening to this one as did my daughters. The animals in the story are discontent with the current state of Mr. Bean's farm and decide migrate to Florida. Along the way, they have many adventures as they encounter other animals and humans who would seek to capture them. They also hear the story of some missing treasure and seek to uncover the mystery of where the gold might be.
The first installment of the series which our 9 year old grandson is devouring. On his and his grandfather's recomendation, I read it via SKYPE to the far away grandkids. It worked well because several times there was a 30 to 45 second video lag; not too conducive to picture books. We all really enjoyed Freddy and his friends' adventures and hope to read "Freddy the Cowboy" apparently the best book of the series according to Luke.
