https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6597855-kiklop
The historical tomorrow: and when men discovered the divine power of matter, it came to reign over them, confusing their minds, blighting their lives and then swallowing itself and turning into a Force which destroyed all laws and there is now not a single consciousness left that could proclaim it stupid in the name of Hegel.Ranko Marinkovic's Cyclops is likely my favorite novel of the year.
A theatre critic fears for the future and pines for a certain beauty, he ignores her particulars and ascribes her a mythic persona.
The critic worries about conscription and notes how his weight plummets.
Radnja ovog romana smještena je pred sam dolazak II Svjetskog rata na ove prostore, a u središtu je egzistencijalna drama Melkiora Tresića, zagrebačkog književnika i književnog kritičara.
Kako bi izbjegao vojsku on se osuđuje na izgladnjivanje i lutanje po zagrebačkim ulicama i kavanama.
Roman je sazdan od fragmenata pa je tako prvo ili uvodno poglavlje ustvari pripovijetka koja je uvrštena u njegovu novelističku zbirku Ruke.
Posebno me se dojmila teorija o tzv.preventivnoj dehumanizaciji koju iznosi Don Fernando i opis Zagreba tih godina - ili Zoopolisa kako ga Marinković naziva i opisuje.
Pretvaranje ljudi u životinje, a dolazak rata kao mitsko biće Kiklop koje proždire sve pred sobom.
i had a lot to say about this book when i finished it 3 weeks ago but then i didn't log onto this site and forgot what i was going to type because i'm fat stupid and short of breath. sort of reminded my of celine i guess, but also other stuff. anyway if you're interested in european modernism then "czech" this out. haha, he's really a croat tho.
Napokon.Najbolji hrvatski roman svih vremena, my ass. Teške droge, eto što je. Dobro, pretjerujem, nije tako loše - očito, s obzirom na 4 zvjezdice - ali svejedno je bilo naporno za čitanje te sam u nekoliko navrata razmatrala mogućnosti samoubojstva. :)
I simply could not get into this book.
Kedysi dávno som ho začal čítať, no odložil som ho, lebo úvod nečítajte ak nemáte čas a náladu na hranie sa so slovami.
Ten úvod je však predzvesťou toho, čo príde.
Nezanedbá žiadny kút, nikoho, kto svetom kráča.Pitoreskný labyrint z postáv z ktorých ani jedna nie je pozitívna, všetky sú ľuďmi so všetkým tým, čo byť človekom znamená.Všetko je ľudské a každá veta z knihy je malou rozkošou z čítania.
Výborná kniha, ktorá podľa mňa obsahuje všetko to, čo výborná kniha má v sebe mať.
Cyclops doesn't give us the bravery and courage of the stereotyped patriot, but the very human fear of a man lost in his own life and fearful of a fate he knows he can't avoid.
Ne znam kada sam se zadnji put toliko namučila da pročitam neku knjigu...umjetnička vrijednost Kiklopa je nepobitna, ali nije mi bio lagan za pročitati.
Možda bi i sada voljela da se mogu ne poistovjetiti sa pesimizmom prisutnim u djelu, ali mogu, jako dobro zapravo, vjerojatno mi ga zato i nije bilo lako čitati.
Šalu na stranu, Kiklop zaista obiluje značenjima, konotacijama, aluzijama na način koji se rijetki nađe.Mislim kako ću ipak više voljeti Marinkovića u kraćim proznim oblicima.
Mislim kako se ne radi tu samo o broju stranica.
Možda nekome neće biti teško čitati tih 400-tinjak stranica, ali meni je bilo.
Ljudi svih zemalja, dehumanizirajte se!
This is supposed to be one of the most important Croatian modernist novels, and I can see why.
All characters are somewhat grotesque and degenerated, in one way or the other.
At some point, you begin to question the sanity of the main character, but you are not really sure is he insane or are everyone around him insane, so he just looks insane.
Therefore, you start questioning everything he says.
Everyone who thinks this is just an anti-war novel needs to think again.
Society is presented as a degenerated carnival madhouse, and that reading experience is sometimes hillarious and sometimes frightening.
I used to read so many books about the life during the WW2 in some big cities like Paris, London, etc.
but finally I found the first book which place and rime of action were situated in my hometown.
Which I never felt again in some other book with similar theme.
I definitely recommend this book to anyone.
It's not easy to read (like reading the book during Sun bathing on the beach), takes a lots of time to thinking, but if I have to summarize this in 1 word - masterpiece!
Cyclops was originally published in Croatia. It takes place in Zagreb and could easily be compared to Ulysses, the Odyssey, and even Hamlet. Marinković captures the essence of the crowds, the shysters, and seedy neighborhoods. He dissects Zagreb on the eve of war with the same precision as Joseph Heller’s Catch 22. It is anti-war in sentiment— and was a prelude to similar books like Slaughter House Five, written in the 1960s with WWII as the setting.
Second time I read Kiklop. An absolutely amazing book. Takes a lot of Shakespeare knowledge to fully appreciate it, though. But it is, nevertheless, a charming and not too aggressively erudite read, which is more than one can say about Krleža's novels, for example.
Genijalno.

Ne moš'.
This is possibly the most extraordinary work of literature ever written.
Što se obećava? Sreća. Što je sreća? Nitko ne zna što je, svi je žele.Knjiga ima odličnu filozofsku podlogu (mnogo materijala za zaustaviti čitanje i promilsiti), ali je neopisivo dosadna za čitati, posebno dijalozi između kolega iz redakcije i Melkiroa. A tek kraj... Toliko riječi i rečenica te toliko vremena utrošeno za bijedan kraj. Još jedna razočaravajuća lektira.
proklet bio kolko mi je trebalo da ga procitam
THIS CLASSIC OF MODERN European literature, which appeared in Croatia in 1965, has just been published in English for the first time. The novel opens with the narrator describing a familiar scene as a math equation. Standing in a public building, Melkior observes two neon signs, one for “Ladies” and one for “Gents”, glowing above intersecting staircases.Read more...
Jeste ovo vrhunska književnost, ali nekako mi nije leglo. Jeste sjajan prikaz predosećanja svetskog rata i psihičkog raspada i jeste da obiluje čovekomrzačkim cinizmom, stilski do krajnosti uglačanim... e, biće da je u tom cinizmu i večitom poricanju stvar, slabo ih varim u ovim godinama. Plus sveprisutno gnušanje prema telesnom.Ali ako izuzmemo to lično predubeđenje, da, knjiga je odlična, za svaku preporuku: to jest ako, recimo, volite Bernharda i Krležu, ovo je tako negde na sredokraći.
Definitely going to reread this in the future
Poprilično sam sigurna da ću za nekoliko godina (možda desetljeća), kada ponovno pročitam ovu knjigu, dati joj 5/5 zvjezdica. Do onda...
Other mental landscapes illustrate Melkior’s dreams, both wishes and fears, as well as his constant daydreams.I found this novel to be much more American in how characters solve problems with their society and situation.
While suicide is certainly an option that avails itself to some characters (Quentin Compson), Melkior desires territories to “lit out to” as Huck Finn desires or an idealized place like California that the Joads head for, but in Croatia and a German-dominated Europe, there is really no place to run to.I never found the novel boring or slow.
Očito sam ponovno nešto propustila. Žali Bože vremena
2.5 stars
"Živjeti - to je izazov." Kažu najbolji hrvatski roman svih vremena. Naporan za čitanje zbog svoje složenosti, igre riječima, simbolike,...
Brilliant!A friend who teaches literature in Croatia recommended this book to me. It is in the spirit of Gogol or Pynchon or Nabokov in the absurdist approach to story telling. It is a biting critique on humanity and religion, progress and war. Highly recommended.
I'm a dirty sucker for this kind of thing.Marinkovic's Melkior - more Dedalus than Bloom - traipses around wartime (WW2) Zagreb hanging with the art crowd, falls in and out of lust with a manipulative hussy, does very little actual work, maintains a destructive relationship with a married woman, escapes the war through mostly feigned mental illness, starves himself and witnesses the old being violently replaced by the new.Marinkovic's prose is more grounded than Joyce's madcappery though the pages are almost as thick with symbolism.
There's also a whole lot of Miller's Parisian meanderings and coffeeshop squabble.As with every comparative work to Ulysses the result falls somewhere in its broad shadow.
