https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9712492-providence
Okay Heather, calm down, it wasn't really that bad was it?? Yes it freaking was! 500 pages of crappy bad Twilight fan fic! I can't believe I wasted so much time!   Yes but you loved "Beautiful Disaster"? Isn't this by the same author?  Very true, I did like "Beautiful Disaster". But maybe I 'm just sick of stalker-boy insta-love YA romances!? I mean Jared was spouting creepy I love yous and making Nina her favorites meals at their first real date. He knew all of her preferences and likes and di
Yes but you loved "Beautiful Disaster"?
Very true, I did like "Beautiful Disaster".
I mean Jared was spouting creepy I love yous and making Nina her favorites meals at their first real date.
I think that is supposed to be romantic, Heather.
It was like everything that had been annoying me in young adult books but I kind of let slide was present in "Providence".
I have a hard time believing this is the same author as "Beautiful Disaster" because, though that book has major flaws as well, the characters had spunk and personality.
I'd been wanting to start it because I know I love Jamie's writing style, and I'm SO glad I finally picked it up!!
Once we find out about their past, the story takes on a whole new meaning, and I just absolutely fell in love with Jared!!!
These two are right up there with my all-time favorite YA fantasy couples!!The supporting characters in Providence were outstanding, too; I just loved Jared's entire family, and Ryan and Beth were perfect as Nina's best friends at the university.
My heart still races thinking about this amazing love story, I absolutely adore these characters!!!
Sooo I found this picture online and then some people though it looked like a good casting pic for the hero from this series which is making me REALLY WANT TO BUMP THEM UP MY TO-READ LIST cuz holyyyyy hotness!!!!
A toast! To finally finishing this book.  It took me forever. It's never ending. *relieved sigh* But I did it.  "You have feelings for me?" His face fell. "I still can't get you out of my head.""I want you safe. I want you happy. I'm figuring out the rest." I had very high expectations for this book. HIGH. Sadly, I just did not love it. It irritated me beyond reason. I was either rolling my eyes, huffing in annoyance, or arguing with the pages. Seriously. I was really looking forward to this bo
It' actually a paranormal book, believe it or not, though it didn't feel much like it.
So I found myself skimming through the majority of the book.We meet Nina who meets Jared the day of her father's funeral.
I didn't feel like the oxygen was missing from the room when he wasn't in it.""I was worried.
He probably doesn't even notice anymore since you do it so much.
I thought so too but apparently we were both wrong.This happens in every other paragraph.
It's annoying how you coddle her all the time," Claire fumed.
Will I be reading books 2 & 3?
Don’t let my whinging about where I read it actually put you off the book itself, which is easily going to become on of my favourites.Providence is about...(view spoiler)[ a lovely couple; it is about Nina Grey and Jared Ryel.
I loved Ryan, sure I liked Jared, he was pretty cool, and I mean he’s a guardian angel for goodness sake.
I loved Ryan because he was totally sweet, he was charming and was destined (they were going to get married) for Nina, but Jared got in the way and un-destined that.
If you read the book you will see why I fell in love with Ryan and not Jared.
ADORED!
5 Angel Saving StarsRe-read Audio version. I love audio books. I love audio books even more when I re-read my favorite reads. It’s like you are experiencing everything for the first time and with DOUBLE the emotions.If you have read this series or want to re-read this series. The AUDIO version is the perfect way to go.Providence=swoon  I have kissed boys, some of those boys more than once, who never have kissed like that.That’s because you kissed boys, sweetheart  It’s a mysterious, intriguing a
I love audio books even more when I re-read my favorite reads.
It’s like you are experiencing everything for the first time and with DOUBLE the emotions.If you have read this series or want to re-read this series.
It’s a mysterious, intriguing and super romantic book.
At times Jared can be a bit emotional, but he cares for Nina so much, you want him as your boyfriend or husband if you are my age.
The TensionThere’s a slight love triangle with Nina’s best friend Ryan, this I enjoy because you want some friction, also Jared’s sister, Clare who isn’t too keen with Nina.
But, like, if Nina and Jared are in love the world will end plus lots of other bad stuff will happen.
'You could have suffered heatstroke from sleeping beside your boyfriend and you're worried if I got my hour in.''You need more than an hour,' I pointed out.'I slept.''Good,' I said, gulping more water down before setting the glass down in the bedside table.
Nina encouraged Jared to read the entire thing out loud to her, ”I was amazed at how much he loved me for so long, and how he fought the sometimes insufferable longing to speak to me.
My first paranormal romance read this year and I loved every chapter. Jamie is really great at taking you on a journey and keeping you hanging on every word.
Another really good series, like this author a lot
Creo que hacía tiempo que no ponía dos estrellas a un libro. Y no es que esta historia sea mala, no, creo que la idea es muy pero que muy buena, si no fuera porque después se desinfló de golpe.
The book had a very interesting concept.
The ways in which this story could go blew my mind, and then I read it.
It would have gone in a DNF pile, but I have a flaw, maybe even fatal, and that is that I have to finish a book.
The love triangle is just as underdeveloped as in Twilight.Jared is just selfish.
I liked Claire and thought her character development was wasted on the snooze fest of a love story.
However, there were things I liked.
Overall, i should be given stars just fo finishing this book and the others.Read at your own risk.
I'm not saying that it was perfect and I loved every single thing about it but it was good, gripping and both romantic, sad and funny.Nina's sad had just died when she meets a handsome stranger (obviously nobody told that "stranger-danger" thing).
And she has to know the truth.I liked that Jamie McGuire took the idea of angels, fallen angels and demons and wrote something entirely new.
Right now Jared is my biggest book crush.Nina was sometime pretty immature and there were moments where she annoyed the hell out of me.
(I really want Jared's POV.
Who needs vampires and werewolves when you have an extremely hot half angel bodyguard who is unconditionally in love with you and completely devoted to keeping you safe (even though it does make Jared appear to be a little bit whipped at times).
I fell in love with this book from the start.
The romance between Jared and Nina is very intense and becomes that way very quickly.
The unique plot kept me interested from start to finish and I loved the way she linked the human side of being a bodyguard with the angelic responsibilities.
Man, I can't decide if I liked Providence or Beautiful Disaster better . . . both were phenomenal. This was a sweet love story, very romantic, and action packed. If you're a paranormal fan and enjoy a sigh-worthy love story, you should check Providence out, I doubt you'll be disappointed. Just bought the sequel and can't wait to read it.
But really I mean if I was ripping off a book then I would choose a better name then Nina Grey.
Nina and Jared annoyed me.
And after one date they're suddenly in love with each other and talking about getting married.
The whole supernatural element with Jared being half an Angel was almost like an afterthought.
Suddenly you don't want him and then you date Ryan but you don't want him either and then you go right back to Jared and he's so sad and then you get shot and then you're getting married.
*Possible spoiler alert*It's pretty safe to say I've found myself a new favorite author.I read this book on my Kindle but I'm going to have to buy it because I want it, in my hands!
I love reading about angels and it's my favorite thing right after vampires.
I'll try to stay away from book 2 as long as I can - I really don't want to wait an entire year for the third and final installment becasue I will be in agony, but knowing myself pretty well by now, I'll end up reading it before the week is over...
Why don't you ever ask me questions?"This is a lot of telling versus showing of emotion, plus a contradiction because Jared asks her just a little while before this exchange, discreetly "Nina, what's wrong?" The dialogue feels haphazard and unrealistic, and in several places of the book, it pulled me out of the story.I've read pieces from writers who've made a daily trip to the grocery store sound more intimate, genuinely humorous, and eventful than this.
Ak by ste zvažovali byť jej priateľkou, pripravte sa na to, že: 1.vás bude ignorovať (pretože bude mať mozog prevarený z toľkého premýšľania o tom super-mega-extra-úžasnom a tajomnom chalanovi Jaredovi)2.ju budete neustále utešovať  (pretože to dievča jednoducho nevie prestať bučať, keď sa od nej Jared vzdiali na viac ako hodinu)3.budete viesť prázdne konverzácie (v skutočnosti ju ale nebude vôbec trápiť, čo sa deje vo vašom živote)Čakáte, že hrdinka bude mať aj nejaký život?
Ale bude medzi nimi strašne veľa drámy, ktorá zahŕňa fňukajúcu Ninu v úlohe rozmaznaného decka a Jareda v úlohe toho super-mega-nežného chalana, ktorý jej k nohám položí srdce...
Einfach nur nein. Dieser Mist hat keine schriftliche Rezension verdient.Video dazu kommt nächste Woche.
I fell in love with me some Jared....... :)
This isn’t a “hey look at the hot girl over there, I can’t live without her.” It’s built upon things in the past (cue: the diary-reading scene, melt my heart!) Although Jared is overprotective, I felt that he had a legitimate, tried and true, had already taken 1 bullet for this girl, reason to be overprotective.
That’s kind of what McGuire does in Providence, I love when weather and setting is incorporated into a story.
And I love when a story is set on a Uni campus!
I love stories that are entertaining and fun to read.
I’ll admit: The only thing I didn’t like about this book was Ryan.
“I love you more than I could ever promise.”It’s swoony and functional for the majority of the book, although Nina has a moment of epic stupid that had he me rolling my eyes and wanting to smack her – not just for what she did, but for the impact her actions had on the people that she involved in her little plan (view spoiler)[ Jared’s heartbreak was hard enough to read about, but involving Ryan as well, when she had to know he was going to get hurt!
Annoying heroine stupidity.PARANORMAL SET-UP:It wasn’t made clear, but I believe a small number of people in the world have a protector-guardian angel.
When Jack is killed in a car accident, Gabe died shortly after.
Jack paid a salary to Gabe and Jared for their protective services to him and his daughter.
After Jack dies, his estate continues to pay Jared to protect Nina.
Question: If the taleh is poor, who pays for the salary and surveillance equipment?) Other characters are demons from hell and archangels who are more powerful than regular angels.The story begins when Nina meets Jared for the first time after her father’s funeral.
But part way through the book i realized I didn't want another BD, not really.
Both books that I have read by her have made me feel like I am part of those break ups.
He is the boy Nina was supposed to be with before Jared came into her life.
In fact when they were pretending I wanted him to just grab her and kiss her once really good when they were alone, so she could feel what being with Ryan could be like for real.
Because in the end I still wanted Nina with Jared.(view spoiler)[Jared showed up a lot in the beginning.
McGuire is a amazing author with the ability to combine sweet and simple characters with remarkable story lines.
These are the stories that readers will remember long after the last line, and revisit just so that they can feel the emotions of loving the characters all over again.
As with Beautiful Disaster McGuire is genuinely talented in writing deeply emotional love stories, but when Providence opens the door more a magically connection it seemed to highten the romance even further.
Jamie McGuire is the a amazing author, and something you should not miss!
It has been quite long since I read proper YA book and this one was absolutely fantastic!
Providence is sweet paranormal story with interesting twists and plenty of action.
Jared was absolutely fantastic!
(view spoiler)[Tha way Jared behaved, the things he told Nina...
And the part when Jared explained his existence to Nina, I was just speechless.
(hide spoiler)] Even though Nina always had good intentions, some of her actions turned really bad.
If you are in mood for some YA paranormal story with perfect male character who is sweet on the one hand and kick-ass character on the other hand, Providence is the best choise for you!
OMG...sucked in. i love this! could not put it down. Jared is amazing...completely swoon worthy. i cannot get the image of amazingly hot angel standing in the rain, bursting with Love for his Taleh!!! ahhhhhhh. i am already on book 2!
And the things is you fall in love with Jared from about…well I wouldn’t say the first time you meet him but maybe the second.
This book, like Beautiful Disaster, made me cry, laugh, smile uncontrollably, and some times shakes my head thinking “what the hell are they doing?” But when Jared and Nina go on vacation to the middle of buckshot no where well, I thought it was the most beautiful vacation in the world.
Jamie McGuire posted on her facebook page that Garrett Hedlund would be a good Jared.Oh yes please!Bad: So far I’ve found that the main men in Jamies’ books happen to be very very much in love with the main women in her book.
Having never read 'Beautiful Disaster', I had no expectations for this book.
I can find very few redeeming features of our girl Nina (who everyone loves for some reason completely unbeknownst to me...) - especially when she calls her BMW a Beemer.2.
There is not even anything to make me want to continue reading (Not the answers of what was Nina's dad really up to, or what does Ryel really do - I was so bored at this stage that I didn't care to find out)4.
THIS WAS ACTUALLY IN THE BOOK.)Yes of course those are your favourites Nina.
