https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23974.Crazy_Salad
I found this in my mother's bookshelf when I was 12. It was a revelation -- writers could talk this way? About this stuff? They can publish books about breasts, and bake-offs, and vaginal deodorant? I loved everything about it -- the specificity of Nora's voice, intimate and New York and Jewish, the unflinchingly female topics, the implicit insistence that these were stories that mattered.
You don't have to read all of it." But of course Nora started this book with "A few words about breasts", and as soon as I finished reading that, I knew that I would read the book in its entirety, and quickly.
I didn't know half the people she was talking about, I was not even born in those times, but I'm glad she took the time to give us a glimpse of what it must have been like in the early 70s, and to raise questions about women's lib and see how they translate to our personal lives, and to see that perhaps the more things change, the more they remain the same.
Hilarious!But I think its only for women. Not necessarily though. Men can read this book too but its too girl-y for me! And I could relate so much with Nora. Funny thing is that...I am always on with such sense of humor & do all these kind of stuffs everyday but somehow read & like Angst/Tragedy genre only! After reading this, I think I should start reading humor now! And there were few parts which did not even affect me in anyway, may be because it was time period issue! I am 90s kid &a
Hilarious!But I think its only for women.
Not necessarily though.
Men can read this book too but its too girl-y for me!
And I could relate so much with Nora.
Funny thing is that...I am always on with such sense of humor & do all these kind of stuffs everyday but somehow read & like Angst/Tragedy genre only!
After reading this, I think I should start reading humor now!
I really found it funny but somewhere it was mix of emotions such as anger, sadness & hurt and that too ego hurt!
#FunnyYetEmotionalAll in all, a good book!
If you can get your hands on it, I recommend reading the original hardback/paperback issued in the seventies.
You get all the essays in their completeness.Before reading this book, I was only familiar with Nora Ephron from Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail.
These essays, unlike the movies, are not schmaltzy in the least.
They are sharply observant, acerbic, and very funny.I especially enjoyed her writings on the sixties/seventies women's movement.
Although Ephron was a feminist and a supporter of the movement, she was also clear-eyed about its many shortcomings (for example, she questions the efficacy of "consciousness raising" rap groups.
This was going four-stars great (so many interesting anecdotes!
pretty fascinating to see a woman's point of view on the women's lib movement as it was happening) until I got to the very last essay, which is filled to the brim with ignorant, unapologetic transphobia (from the author) and misogyny (from the transperson the article is about), which...
well, really put a dampener on my feelings about the book.
I'd have taken the rating all the way down to one or two stars save for the fact that this was written in the 70s, which isn't really much of an excuse at all.
Megan Daum recommended Crazy Salad when I saw her speak at Butler as part of their Visiting Writers Series last month.
Ephron's influence on Daum's writing is evident.
A good thing!
Love their ears and eyes for social irony, and their habit of wrapping up essays with a tough question or a jewel of wisdom.
Learning about Ephron's work as a feminist activist and thinker give me a new appreciation for Sleepness in Seattle and You've Got Mail.
Her passing is such a loss.
We could really use her wit and sense of humor to make sense of these interesting times...
Crazy Salad - Nora Ephron Ephron amuses me, even if I don't always agree with her.
*** It’s been a long time since I read this, which I’ve wanted to do ever since the recent Ephron buddy binge with Veronica.
But I couldn’t find our copy.
It was a housekeeping miracle.
These essays originally appeared in the early seventies for Esquire.
So in turn, that ties back into the women’s college tour, and the Steinem emphasis of this spring.
I say “our copy”, but it isn’t: it’s the Spouse’s copy that he brought to the marriage.
Personal copy
I love that Nora Ephron told the truth about that, because it was that kind of behavior within Women's Groups at my own college that initially turned me off on the idea of calling myself a Feminist.I've changed on that, and I say, don't let the bitches keep you from being a Feminist.And I'm not being sexists, because you shouldn't let the bastards stop you from being a Feminist either!I'm so sad Nora Ephron is dead.
I'm so sad I didn't know more about her until she died.
Just curious -- but it's not really my thing. In fact, in the 1983 Introduction to the 1975 Preface both by Ephron herself, she says, "Some of them seem dated--which is inevitable with magazine pieces; some of them that seem dated nonetheless have a kind of quaint historical value." Maybe the latter will come true with time. Steve Martin's Introduction to the Modern Library Humor and Wit Series is very funny however.
"Crazy Salad" is not a collection that, for anyone born in the last 40 years, has aged terribly well.Though a few excellent essays transcend time, many of the rest feel so dated and trapped in their own historical era that you half expect shag carpet to begin growing underneath your feet as you read it.
Don't worry - there are TWO essays in this collection that address this topic.)There is no question that Ephron was an incisive writer and razor wit and I don't doubt this particular collection read great when it was published in the 70s but I think this book begs some editorial deletions (and combination with other collections) to be interesting to a casual reader today.

I really enjoyed learning more about this period in history where so much change was taking place.
Some of the essays seemed really irrelevant and didn't stand the test of time, but many of them were still very interesting to read.
I learned aspects of the women's movement that I had never heard anything about before.
A lot of the essays just happened to be written in the months just before and just after I was born, and it was really cool to read what was going on at that time.
I always enjoy the writing of Nora Ephron. After reading these articles, that notion was further confirmed as was the idea that I'm glad that I didn't have to live through the early 1970's. Though I think women's rights still have a long way to go in order to achieve true equality, it is clearly apparent that we have come such a long way already. This was an eye opening book for some who did not experience those days first hand.
Continuing my tour de Ephron, specifically to read "The Girls in the Office" after reading three direct references. I felt as if this were a window into a particular moment in the women's movement, and history, and Ephron's life, one I enjoyed peeking through even if I didn't understand some of the references.I fell asleep a lot while reading this one, at odd times, face-deep into it, proclaiming it would only take me one day to finish.It took four.
The amazing thing about these essays is that much of the commentary can be made today as when she wrote it in the 1970s. But otherwise it's too much of a hodgepodge and unfocused. A few great articles but too many "you had to be there" moments.
Nora Ephron's contemporaneous review of the second-wave feminist movement is interesting in some ways and dated in others.
Punctuated by occasional flashes of brilliance that appear much more consistently in her later work, I found this a compelling read mainly insofar as it provides a milestone in Ephron's writing career, and Nora Ephron is a writer I have come to care increasingly about since I read her other works ('I Hate My Neck' and 'Heartburn' especially).First, the datedness: I will confess to not care very much about feuds in the second-wave feminist movement.
Reading it 45 years after the events Ephron chronicles was at times hard as feminism still struggles to become intersectional.
Ephron herself engages in this type of problematic rhetoric as she presents Lance Loud's sexual orientation as a liability and lambastes Jan Morris' gender identity in the final essay.At the same time, reading this book was disheartening as we struggle with some of the same issues 45 years later (e.g., women's reproductive rights, gender wage gaps, etc.).
On the other hand, it is good to see that fourth-wave feminism, as problematic as it still may be in its struggle with intersectionality, has made some inroads.
I can only wonder if Ms. Ephron felt a little regret about most of these essays later in life. We enjoyed the ones about herself, but as the collection went on, our enjoyment waned. It's not fun to read a feminist judge other women, really, to distill them into so little. And today, the final essay about transgender woman Jan Morris is particularly frustrating. It reads as though Ephron is offended that Morris could dare be happy with herself as a woman, when Ephron herself, was not. Nevermind that Ephron didn't fully recognize Morris as a woman.
Really 3.5 stars. I love Norah Ephron's sense of humor and writing skills, and this book shows them to advantage. However, it is a compilation of pieces she had written in 1973=74, and felt pretty dated. Universal truths and humor come through, but she writes about current events and culture and what was current in the early seventies is less compelling to me. Still, I'm glad I got this book along with "Scribble Scrabble" for a song through a Kindle deal.
The essays in this collection were written in the 1960's and 1970's and they are certainly of those times. I thought they did a great job of showing what it was like for a feminist women during that time. I did not think they were particularly humorous but I did enjoy them.
Nora, as always, never ceases to make me laugh with her wit and her observations. This book, perhaps, was a bit dated in that she was writing about current events and seemed a bit more jadded than some of her other books. But all in all, I still very much enjoyed this book!
This is a bit dated but an interesting read if you want to know what females in the 70's were thinking, especially with regards to the women's liberation movement.
I love Nora Ephron - and I can't believe that she got away with writing so directly in the 1970s.
She states that Moses kept the Hebrews wandering for 40 years knowing that no one raised in slavery would be able to found a nation, and she relates this to the women of her generation.
Ephron sees “Deep Throat” one night because it was the only film that no one in her party had seen, and she feeling upset by certain acts and implications in the film, but even more disturbed that all of the men in her group told her not to take it so seriously, that it was only a movie.
She describes a consciousness raising group in which women were to look into a vagina, the better to know this part of the body which, Ephron notes in several essays, has been demonized throughout history.
Ephron identifies herself as a feminist and writes from inside the storm of early Women's Lib. At her Wellesley reunion, Ephron feels embarrassment on behalf of her fellow alums who are staying home to raise children ("housewives," in the parlance of 1972).
And, with open jaw, she observes women competing in the annual Pillsbury Bake-Off. Yet Ephron is unable to support all feminist efforts: she wonders what to say when reviewing a pro-woman book that isn't actually very good in one essay, and in another she recounts how joining a consciousness-raising group ruined her marriage.
What I mean by that is neatly encapsulated in this paragraph from the article titled “Truth and Consequences”:“The problem, I’m afraid, is that as a writer my commitment is to something that, God help me, I think of as The Truth, and as a feminist my commitment is to the women’s movement.
And ever since I became loosely involved with it, it has seemed to me one of the recurring ironies of this movement that there is no way to tell the truth about it without, in some small way, seeming to hurt it.”This slight ambivalence feeds into most of Ephron’s writing here, and I expect it’s why I’ve increasingly come to admire the movies that ultimately (with Julie and Julia, and her blu-ray commentary on that movie) led me to want to read her earlier prose.
What I find fascinating are the issues brought up in each article - I had no idea people once were giving away free speculums to encourage women to do cervical examination on themselves!
I think I liked it because she was honest about supporting one person but then not without showing us that she did try to understand the other's actions.
There are of course, some articles that I don't feel comfortable reading.
I don't really read magazines so I'm not sure if such articles are a norm even now?When I was halfway through, I thought I like this book more than her other book; 'I Feel Bad About My Neck'.
This is marketed as a humor book, and it's not (although that's not to say that Ephron doesn't write with a sharp, wry sense of humor, because she does).
What it is, is a book of essays, articles, and columns, from the 1970s, on feminism, women, culture, and personal experiences.The writing style is deeply engaging (I had a lot of trouble putting this book down), and I was deeply impressed with Ephron's sharp, unfailing honesty -- particularly as the topic she spends the most time being honest about is herself.
But this book was also an eye-opener for me.
Before reading Ephron, I don't think I truly understood the magnitude of "the women's movement" during the 1970s - and just how much was changing for women at the time.
Ephron tries to navigate the many contradictions of womanhood during this time and, in my opinion, does so with grace and class.
She does not flinch from uncomfortable subjects, or shy away from writing an unpopular opinion.
And I think - although I know many will disagree - her last essay on a transgender person is one of the more lucid, rational pieces I've read on the subject.
With my teenage daughter finally interested in sampling some feminist literature I have been reviewing old favorites and doing a survey of what's out there so I can make better recommendations.
Many of the essays were written the year I was born and I am enjoying it as a historical time capsule from an accessible and balanced early feminist.
I am not finding the essays side-splitting and some are quite crass, but it is a good reminder in many cases of how far we've come as well as a measure of how much stays the same.
