https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149657.The_Golden_Rendezvous
It is also, narrowly beating out The Day of the Jackal, the finest thriller novel ever written.The book distills the very best of MacLean- take a wry, intelligent protagonist, some suave Hans Gruber-type villains (the Die Hard guy, later famous as Snape), a beautiful/sensitive/intelligent heroine, and a truly hopeless situation.
And, best of all, put them all in the sea, MacLean's natural habitat.This is as truly a page turner as was ever written- every page brings forth something new, something unexpected, and you find yourself turning pages so smoothly that before you realize it, you're half way through.
I probably remember the movie (starring Richard Harris) more than the book, really. But I would say that this is readable, but not in any way among the first dozen or so you should pick if you're starting on MacLean.
I was 16 years old when I discovered Alistair Maclean.
But then when I really 'tasted' Maclean - you have to be the right age, and have the right education, to appreciate classical writers like Alistair Maclean - I never knew a writer who could be so GOOD.
If you are a boy in love with adventure, or a fan of suspense-full thrillers, there's nothing like Alistair Maclean to whet your appetite.
I enjoyed every book of Alistair Maclean, except one.
But Alistair Maclean is worth being a part of a literature course in college.
He is that good.
Alistair MaClean is one of the more difficult thriller authors to endorse.
That's what MaClean does best.
He's a 'ringer' --as usual in a MaClean tale.
In the beginning of the story, you see him dangling over the side of a ship by a rope.
When you're at the *end* of the bag, and you look down--and only then, do you feel slightly sick.Bottom line: if I had to select a few favorites from MacLean I would toss out a lot of other titles before tossing this one.
When MacLean sets a story somewhere out on the ocean you just gotta respect it.
It's a rare thing for a 'thriller' to garner four or five stars from me.
While reading these types of books, I feel the mapping of the plot, as if the voice from a GPS computer were directing my every turn.
While the sights may be interesting along the way, the randomness of life has been suppressed.This is the feeling that was conveyed by The Golden Rendezvous.
The characters, however, serve only the plot.
These characteristics are simply not true to life, but they had to be included in order for the story to make its way from beginning to end.

A fun book, but silly.
A MacLean I thought I'd read, but I had no recollection of it.
In this one, our strong, silent first-person narrator is first officer of a cargo boat-cum-luxury liner which is hijacked by representatives of a small third-world government for the purpose of stealing $150 million in gold.
A small nuclear weapon and a kidnapped scientist are involved, as well as the inevitable beautiful but infuriating girl, and they are detonated, rescued, and fallen in love with respectively.
MacLean has a trick of creating atmosphere and realizing the physicality of his settings which redeems the otherwise inexpressibly disgusting premises of his stories.
This, I think, is where the rot sets in for real. The character knows too much and doesn't share it. Instead, we get lots of pontification. It's a great plot, but I don't give a bugger about the characters, partly cos they talk too much bollocks. Compare this with his first three books and you can see he needs an editor - but he obviously wouldn't listen. Pity, it's one draft away from being 4 out of 5.
Одна из самых любимых книжек, ладно уж, детства: открытое море, пираты, заложники, ядерная бомба, главный герой - умница и талантище, явно из тех, кто "в штабе писарем отсиделся", уж настолько эффективно действует. Раз в год или около того, когда настроение совсем ни к черту, перечитываю с огромнейшим удовольствием.
my first alisair maclean at sixteen...started me on a roll that saw me read all of his books over the next couple of years...biggles for teens
A very exciting read with non-stop drama action. Gold, secret weapon, beautiful woman..Explosive !
I'm a girl who loves suspense and action/adventure, but am conservative enough not to appreciate the hardcore profanity and sex scenes found in novels like Robert Ludlum's thrillers.
He and Byron no doubt had a great deal in common: MacLean’s hero in every novel is the Byronic man engaged in a struggle against evil, fighting to retrieve the treasure and rescue the innocent, while coolly attracting the girl in the process.
But if, like me, you love action/adventure/suspense thrillers and Byronic heroes, the formula works pretty much every time.
On one hand, so much of it is unbelievable and downright stupid, I want to give it two stars.
On the other hand, it's pretty action packed and is somewhat of a page turner.
Simply stupid as hell.Be that as it may, our hero, Carter, the first officer, helps run the ship.
And again, he figures out exactly what's happening -- the pirates have the bomb and are going to blow the ship with its passengers and crew to pieces so there will be no witnesses to the piracy.
It had evil characters, good heroes, the pretty girl, guns -- everything.

This book ought to be a classic. A high seas adventure, starring the capable First Officer Carter as he grapples with pirates with a dangerous agenda. The writing is immaculate, and I really think it is one of MacLean's best.
Possibly one of his best plots - the suspense really builds up in the first half of the novel.
The plot isn't as layered as some of his books, and I got the feeling that with a protagonist like Chief Officer Carter, the antagonists never had a chance.Nonetheless, it serves it's purpose as quick, enjoyable filler between more serious reads admirably.
Maybe I'm putting it up to too high a standard, with books like The Guns of Navarone and Night Without End. Or I might just have had too high an expectation - my teenage mind was enthralled by anything by Alistair Maclean.
None are more heroic than the ship’s chief officer, John Carter, who doggedly refuses to let fear get in his way, even when faced with seemingly impossible odds.
I’m going to be deliberately vague here to avoid spoilers, but without doubt the best moment in the book is when a scientist explains to John the terrible danger facing them and the likely consequences should John attempt to tamper with a certain deadly, unstable device aboard the SS.
I think John Carter is one of MacLean’s finest characters and this one of his very best novels.
The best MacLean ever and my personal favourite.
As with all MacLean Novels the plot is thrilling to the very end.
The hero is typical MacLean: tough, resourceful and gifted with a self-deprecating sense of humor.
Modern pirates day pirates running after gold bullion and a nuclear bomb take over a luxury liner and its upto the first mate (the protogonist) to outwit them in the dangerous game of cat and mouse.
Revealing too much of the plot won't be good on my part.
I suggest you buy and read this gem of a novel.
I am sure this would be the best thriller you would ever come across in your life time.
Maclean was the one who made suspense thrillers the first of my favorite genres (and it is only in last few years that I started enjoying other genres more).
However, in this one, he wasn't at his best.
His protagonists are typically highly intelligent and resourceful, and the story line usually borders on believable.
But the protagonist in this one is too super-human, and quite a few turns are either predictable or completely defy logic, to make the story quite unbelievable.
But it is still edgy, and action-packed, and has dialogs with that sharp wit which I so love about Maclean.
Alastair MacLean is an author of the 20th century well known for action and suspense.
Two of his best known classics, The Guns of Navarone and Where Eagles Dare, are edge of your seat reads and both were made into edge of your seat movies.
The Golden Rendezvous is not as good as Navarone of Eagles, but the story is still quite thrilling.
Chief Officer John Carter of the SS Campari is not having a good day.
Last minute passengers with coffins delay the departure of the Campari from Nassau.
After reading two famous books of this author, my expectations for this book was quite high.
This book didn't reach to my expectations.
The story started on a very slow pace.
The story was not at all time knitting.
Hence I had taken a long time to read.
Plot of the story was good and could be made interesting and page turning if the author wished too.
If you haven't read any books of this author and your reading this one for the first time you might like it.
But to appreciate the author's story telling, I would suggest to read Force 10 Navorone.
Picked this at random from the MacLean titles at my local library.
Was a great read - very entertaining.
All you have to do is accept the nature of reality in an Alastair MacLean book.
This reality allows the hero to be sandbagged on the head, shot in the leg, lose a lot of blood, and still save the day and get the girl via heroic feats of derring-do.
Which is what makes it so fun - *if only I could be that guy that can do that*.
Any book that keeps me up past midnight deserves my gratitude.
I enjoyed this book. It was better than some of the other MacLean novels that I read recently, if only because the protagonist wasn't a master spy who was inexplicably inept. In this case, the hero is a man who is thrust into strange and difficult circumstances and he manages to outwit the cleverest of villians. The criminal plot at the center of the novel seems a bit over-complicated and therefore difficult to believe, but it was fun nonetheless.
I LOVE this book -- hadn't read it in years. Supposedly it was coming out in a Nook format, so I eagerly plunked down my money and then ... it wasn't available. So I found it on ABEbooks.com, a great source of old books. It's a great thriller with a commonplace, so to speak, hero. Bruce Willis could have done a great job with this, in movie form, about 20 years ago.
MacLean is always at his best when at sea and this novel is no exception. His ex-naval background gives him real authority and authenticity, and it has to be said that First Officer Carter is definitely one of his more memorable characters. As usual it is tightly plotted and has the usual mix of eccentric good guys and bad guys. A fast paced, gripping read!
This book was classic MacLean: espionage, adventure, and mystery. The added romance took away a bit from the plot, so this was not as enjoyable as some of MacLean`s other books. But, still a fantastic read with suspense that keeps you on the edge of your chair, unable to put the book down.
This book was classic MacLean: espionage, adventure, and mystery. The added romance took away a bit from the plot, so this was not as enjoyable as some of MacLean`s other books. But, still a fantastic read with suspense that keeps you on the edge of your chair, unable to put the book down.
A typical MacLean thriller which brings nothing new to the table. But I have read it couple of times nevertheless and I like the character of the wisecracking captain. That's why this book has a special place in my heart. Good memories of adolescent years.
My umpteenth rereading of this taut though-somewhat-dated thriller set aboard a hijacked cruise ship and featuring the indomitable First Officer Carter. Alistair MacLean does not hesitate to have his characters get beat up.
I always enjoy books by Alistair MacLean, even though he tends to follow the same formula as he develops his stories - tough, resourceful protagonist takes on bad guys, and against overwhelming odds, prevails and wins the day.
