https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149055.Tales_from_the_White_Hart
Tales from the White Hart, Arthur C.
ClarkeTales from the White Hart is a collection of short stories by science fiction writer Arthur C.
Includes: Preface, "Silence Please", "Big Game Hunt", "Patent Pending", "Armaments Race", "Critical Mass", "The Ultimate Melody", "The Pacifist", "The Next Tenants", "Moving Spirit", "The Man Who Ploughed the Sea", "The Reluctant Orchid", "Cold War", "What Goes Up", "Sleeping Beauty", "The Defenestration of Ermintrude Inch".تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز نهم ماه دسامبر سال 1996 میلادیعنوان: روح سرگردان؛ نویسنده: آرتور سی.
I tried to read some bar tall tales theme in science fction/fantasy genre.
Before this book, I have read Tales From Gavagan's Bar and The Draco Tavern.
Tales From The White Hart (TFTWH) is my third book, and I already has some expectation when reading it.
As we can also expect from Mr. Clarke, the tall stories in this book is relatively in light theme and rarely the plot is good-versus-evil.
Many tales in this book that if written by others would be ended as darker fantasy stories.

Evgeny's review of  Callahan's Crosstime Saloon made me think I should rate this!
I remember my father showing me a copy of wireless weekly (my father is an exceptional electrical engineer) written by Arthur C Clarke about bouncing radio signal off artificial satellites to reach the other side of the world held in a geosynchronous orbit (and so was born the age of the communications satellite) and for me this made science fiction all the more credible - not only were there tall tales of far away worlds and terrifying aliens but also genuine science that the world today depends upon.
Arthur Clarke has published several collections of short stories.
This particular book was originally published in 1957---so contains some of his earlier works.All of the stories are well written; Clarke has a clear prose style and some good ideas.
However, this was his early work and none of the story is really memorable.
This is the type of book where most Sf readers will read it, enjoy it, and not remember the stories two months later.However, if you have read Clarke's later works, it is interesting to see how his style of writing has developed from thes stories in the 1950's to his later, better known tales.Enjoyable, classic SF tales from an acknowledged leader in the field.Recommend for SF fans, especially if you like classic SF; fans of Arthru C.
Clarke; fans of short stories.
And then the teller of the story gets dragged off by his harpy of a wife never to be seen again, and Clarke - writing in his own voice, as he only rarely does in these stories - finishes the book with the line:"If you have to defenestrate Ermintrude to regain your freedom, do it on a Wednesday evening between six and eleven, and there'll be forty people in the "Sphere" who will provide you with an alibi."So the one-line "moral" of Clarkes own shaggy dog story is that, if you have to murder your wife to get out for a beer with the boys, go ahead; every one of them will conspire to help you get away with it.
I've encountered a few of the stories before in other collections, but never as a set, and I must say that I really enjoyed them.The humour in these tall tales and shaggy dog stories is evident right from the word go, many of them are build-ups to a single pun delivered in the last line (and as someone who loves puns, I heartily approve) and even where it's not, there's always a good end to the story.
'The Reluctant Orchid' is genuinely creepy right up until the point it switches and baits and becomes hilarious, while 'The Defenestration of Ermintrude Inch' is just good old fashioned farce.Much like Spider Robinson's 'Callahan's', the 'White Hart' never existed, but if it did, it's a place I'd love to stop for a drink some time.
Oh - Em - Gee!!
I finally finished this!!!Tales From the White Hart is an occasionally enjoyable, uneven collection of short stories by Arthur C.
Clarke, all told by Harry Purvis, one of the White Hart's regular customers.
Drew, the owner pours drinks to distract skeptics and move the story along.
I could have given individual stories much higher ratings {"The Next Tenants", "Cold War"), but I felt like I was slogging through much of it.
I did appreciate that Clarke used the name John Wyndham, the author of Day of the Triffids, for one of the pub's regulars.
Fun book of stories about scientific inventions and their unintended consequences, all told by Harry Purvis to his friends at London's White Hart pub. The inventions are usually strange, and the consequences are always unexpected and funny. The book presents a really interesting contrast between the world of 60 years ago and today; in a way these are "mad scientist" stories, in that the inventors/scientists are usually working by themselves or with very small groups, very much unlike the way most science is practiced today. A fun exercise might be to write some stories like this about software development. Entertaining.
The stories in the book are supposedly those of Purvis.The only other bit I recalled at all was the premise to “Cold War,” a story in which a film crew from Hollywood hires a submarine to move an iceberg to Florida, hoping to dethrone the rival state’s claim to be “the Sunshine State.” And I had a vague memory of having read “Armaments Race,” in which a special effects artist working for a “Rocky Jones, Space Ranger”-style TV program was forced to constantly upgrade and improve the rayguns used by first the good guys, then the bad guys on the show sequentially, until one finally did come up with a model that worked all too well.
This set of tall tales spun mainly by one Harry Purvis in a cozy English pub are entertaining enough, but nothing special. One of the stories near the end is annoyingly sexist.
Classic Arthur C. Clarke. I read this book thirty-five years ago and have very fond memories. I'm pleased to say that it's held up well over the years and is still a fun read.
Relatos.Lo que nos cuenta.
El libro Cuentos de la Taberna del Ciervo Blanco (publicación original: Tales from the White Hart, 1957) ofrece quince relatos del autor, todos publicados previamente en distintas revistas y volúmenes con la excepción de dos, construidos alrededor de los supuestos encuentros periódicos de varios personajes (entre los que se ven algunos escritores reales) en un pub de Londres, El ciervo blanco, y de las historias que se narran en dichos encuentros (casi todos por el mismo personaje) que nos harán conocer, entre otros temas, las consecuencias de desarrollar un contador de palabras, utilería para una serie de ciencia ficción, una sustancia contra los ronquidos, una máquina que genera silencio, o sistemas de control neuronal.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Muy buena colección de cuentos, entretenidos y adelantados a su época
I read this when really young up at paternal grandmother Lajla's cottage on the southwest shore of Lake Michigan--on the great wicker couch in the living room, to be exact.
Clarke's device, setting up his stories in the context of tale tales told in a pub, the whole grownup Englishness of it, enchanted me thoroughly, made me think consciously that "now, this is a good book!" To that point, I hadn't often thought such things about what I read, but the style of it struck me powerfully at the time.
Now, almost certainly, I would not be so impressed.
Absolutely outstanding. I hadn't re-read this book for at least twenty years. Somehow it had gotten pigeonholed in my memory as a bit boring and dull.But it's anything but dull or boring! Classic and funny science fiction stories using the classic bar-story format. Over and over I found myself coming across phrases and ideas which I'd incorporated into my personal lexicon, only to forget where they'd come from. "Oh, so this is where I first read that!" I kept saying.It's a pity that Clarke wrote so few of these stories. They're wonderful.
I -adore- Clarke's writing on the whole. This, he admits in a forward, was the answer to someone saying that SciFi cannot be funny.While the stories were charming, whimsical, even light, I wouldn't call them funny. They were like receiving carnival-grade candy floss when I'm used to the most elaborate 9-course desserts from the same baker. Charming, but not really adding anything to the field.
Short science fiction stories, all by the same man. Very amusing and whimsical. Kind of silly and fun. All sorts of stuff, like finding the perfect tune, discovering a man-eating plant, sabotaging Florida with a fake iceberg, termites taking over the world, noise cancellation, controlling animals, etc. etc. No outer space stuff – just good old outlandish science.
Despite that most every story features a scientist dying or being incapacitated, there's still a lighthearted feel about this book of short stories. It's probably that these are being related in a bar by outside observers.
Un iceberg che galleggia nel tiepido mare della Florida, un giocattolo che minaccia di far saltare una stazione televisiva, un'orchidea che rifiuta di commettere il delitto perfetto, un vecchio che insegna alle termiti ad accendere il fuoco, un cervello elettronico che risponde parolacce ai generali: siamo, non c'è bisogno di dirlo, in piena fantascienza. Ma la cornice, questa volta, è insolita: un'osteria della vecchia Londra, un tipico pub di Fleet Street, la famosa strada dei giornali. E' du
Un iceberg che galleggia nel tiepido mare della Florida, un giocattolo che minaccia di far saltare una stazione televisiva, un'orchidea che rifiuta di commettere il delitto perfetto, un vecchio che insegna alle termiti ad accendere il fuoco, un cervello elettronico che risponde parolacce ai generali: siamo, non c'è bisogno di dirlo, in piena fantascienza.
Forse per suggerirci che nella fantascienza non c'è solo il terrore dell'ignoto e dell'inumano, che anche le ricerche più stupefacenti si possono guardare con tranquillo divertimento e con un boccale di birra in mano.
L'UOMO CHE ARAVA IL MARE The man who ploughed the sea
Harry Purvis is a master storyteller who regales his fellow patrons every Wednesday evening at the White Hart pub with fantastical yarns of eccentric characters and outrageous scientific catastrophes.While Tales from the White Hart is considered one of Clarke's most popular anthologies, I found a handful of the stories—such as "Big Game Hunt", "Critical Mass", "Cold War", and a few others—to be either prosaic, mundane, or anticlimactic.
During their expedition, they encounter a large yacht owned by an elderly chemist who invented a method for collecting elements and precious metals directly from saltwater."Moving Spirit" - When an eccentric, reclusive scientist's still explodes, he finds himself arrested for manufacturing illegal alcohol and requests help from his nephew, Harry Purvis, attorney-at-law.
2.5/5 estrellas.Este libro fue una lectura obligatoria para mi clase de física y química.No me esperaba nada de él, ¡y me sorprendió bastante!Es una sucesión de relatos cortos relacionados con la química o la física (dependiendo del relato) y la verdad es que encontré todos ciertamente interesantes.No sé qué más decir, ya que cualquier mención a cualquier relato sería spoiler, pero para el que lo haya leído, he de decir que me encanta el final JAJAJAJA.Recomiendo bastante este libro a aquellos amantes de la ciencia como yo <3
"Tales From the 'White Hart'" is a charming collection of science fiction short stories written by one of SF's most important writers, Arthur C. Clarke. The stories are basically comedic tall tales lacking the hard scientific foundation usually found in Clarke's writings, but are still worth taking in. The book does suffer from being a bit repetitious as they almost all told (one way or another) by one character, Harry Purvis. (Only one story, "Big Game Hunt" is told by somebody else.) Despite that, "'White Hart'" is an amusing diversion from one of the Masters of the genre.
A fun read, going through a collection of short engaging stories narrated by Harry Purvis, an interesting character. One of my favourites is "Critical Mass". Overall it is very entertaining material, in spite of some sexist moments. I understand these stories were written in the 50s however I was still shocked while reading last part of the book.
I really wanted to read something by Arthur C Clarke. Too bad I choose this to be my first example. For one thing it was a collection of short stories, and for another it's a little discombobulated. But he has some unique story ideas, and I'm all about the unique.
An amusing frame narrative by my favorite SciFi author from the late 1950's. My second time reading the book, and in the telling of the stories, though fictitious, is Arthur inserts himself into the narrative. Perhaps a bit dated, a bit British, but thoroughly enjoyable.
Sort of fun and somewhat of its time. A bunch of shaggy dog stories centred around science and recounted in a fictional pub. There are some interesting insights which, naturally, have aged as the science caught up.
3.5 out of 5
A great collection of short science fiction stories. The stories are ridiculous and over the top but the narrator warns you of this from the start. It was a fun read.
