https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40611328-ishmael
The idea that there is some 'great natural order' to things is very comforting, because it makes the world sensible, predictable, and easy to understand.
The problem becomes that anyone who believes that some structure must be there, underlying everything, is going to trust that at a certain point, that structure will balance things out automatically.It's like walking a tightrope and just assuming there must be a net below you that will catch you when you fall--a dangerous assumption to make, especially when we know it's not true.
Ishmael the gorilla makes a passing derogatory mention of the "noble savage" idea, then spends the rest of the book romanticizing and idealizing the hunter-gatherer cultures, trying to get across the idea that modern Western people have trouble seeing merit in such cultures because we've been brainwashed by our industrialized society.But the thing is, going back to a hunter-gatherer lifestyle would mean a goodbye to literacy, to book publishing, to all the things without which Daniel Quinn and others like him would have no more literary soapbox to stand on.
Turns out my views on this matter match those of Noam Chomsky, who wrote the following in "Chomsky on Anarchism":I do not think they are realizing that what they are calling for is the mass genocide of millions of people because of the way society is now structured and organized, urban life and so forth.
And to top it off, it’s horribly written.This telepathic gorilla pontificates on culture, his take on the book of Genesis, and re-evaluates mankind’s philosophy on life and how we're killing the world.
I would recommend this book for: ·	Undergraduate philosophy majors ????·	People who don't know anything and are willing to be treated like idiots…….·	Chris Matthews·	Al Gore and friends!May I share some of the reviews I DO agree with:·	“A talking gorilla is the only one who can convince a yuppie to give up his evil ways; no wonder the world is in the state that it is in.
The reason I like Quinn’s style in “Ishmael” is that he doesn’t assume a pedantic perch atop humanity and force-feed a philosophically-driven, A-Z laundry list of “how to make yourself a better human being” and “save the world one person at a time” mantra down the reader’s throat.
Like Ishmael's narrator, I too found myself excited to come back each day (via turning the next page) to learn another part of the “story.” What I find fascinating about this book is the power of its seemingly simplistic message: “Man unto himself is temporal phenomenon.” Quinn doesn’t waste his time extrapolating the myriad of problems that affect our world to make his point.
I bought it the same day because i really needed a decent read...
however simple and idiotic that may seem to you, this story reveals so eloquently what i have always believed to be the reasons for the way we live in modern society.
It details the way in which our society has enslaved us and forced us to enact a story we have been told since the dawning of the agricultural revolution, one which we still are enacting today.
I couldn't cry for this book, though i should have several times...
(my goal is to get at least 20 people i know to read this book, you should be one of them)
A telepathic gorilla develops something like consciousness, is happily able to flower under the attentive stewardship of a George Soros-type philanthropist and waxes philosophical to a disenchanted idealist.
And something that seems to be missing from every review of this book I’ve read thus far -- the story’s narrator is barely unnerved by a telepathic gorilla.
I’m sure I’ll thank you for it later.
I mean, David Berkowitz does it, and he’s a serial killer; this guy does it, and he wants to roll back civilization to the hunter-gatherer stage.
I’m down with Mother Earth and all that jazz, but psychopathology is psychopathology.
Much like describing the laws of gravity and aerodynamics, this book takes on the daunting task of coming up with a human law.
The educator, Ishmael, (who also happens to be a talking gorilla) leads the narrator and thus the reader through the thought process of figuring it out.
The book will make you question everything you've ever been taught about religion, science, philosophy, and most importantly, human evolution.
I can't say more about this book without going into the exact thought process, which will spoil the book for those who plan on reading it.
It's a quick read.
The central thesis of the gorilla's thoughts, which he presents as unassailable fact, is the supposition that human population will ALWAYS increase to use all available food supply, something that simply isn't true in any of the developed countries.
Okay, so he then doesn't notice that if people stop growing food because there's nobody to eat it, then the population is limiting itself and the human species is not doing its job of multiplying, engulfing, and devouring as he claims it always must.
This book completely wiped away the world view that my parents, friends, and teachers had put into my head for so many years, and then began the formation of my own view.
Other things, such as the book "Collapse" by Jared Diamond, or Al Gore's movie "An Inconvenient Truth", have also had effect, but "Ishmael" has been the most life-changing in this respect.
This book made me aware of the horrible over-consumption of resources of human beings in everyday life.
What is needed is a change of view of our place in the world, and that's what Ishmael gave me.
E.g. Ishmael states that other species do not attack competitors.
Species will attack predators whenever there is an adaptive advantage to do so.
Also, Ishmael says that humans have chosen to exempt themselves from the laws of nature in order to increase their numbers.
Ishmael also says that it is inevitable that humans will overpopulate the earth when you increase the food supply.
The simple message that man acts as if the world was made for him is well taken, but for me the good parts were lost in the mire.
Every mammal on this planet instinctively develops a natural equilibrium with the surrounding environment but you humans do not.
A few months ago in the northern district of Calicut and specifically at a place named Wayanad in Kerala, men mercilessly hunted down and killed a wild Tiger.
The question it poses has been relevant for decades now : Does the World belong to Man ?
Or Does Man belong to the World ?
The ideas focus on the struggle between an agrarian society and a society that lived in harmony with nature.
The top three reviews on this book are salty 1 star reviews. 0_oEven if you don't agree with the philosophical underpinnings of this novel it is a thought-provoking tale of great power.The story is allegorical but even the surface story is an emotional and engaging tale.I found this deeply enjoyable. It is certainly worth your time to take a look even if you don't agree with the philosophy.
ای آدم چرا خود را پنهان میکنی؟ برداشت آزاد از پیدایش 3 : 8مردم شونه بالا میاندازن و میگن خب این تاوانیه که باید برای لولهکشی آب گرم، تهویهی مطبوع، ماشین و سایر مسائل بپردازیم. اما من میگم تاوانی که شما پرداختید، تاوان انسان شدن نیست، حتی تاوان داشتن چیزایی که الان گفتم هم نیست. این تاوان اجرای داستانیه که بشر را در نقش دشمن جهان به بازی گرفته؛ جهانی که باید فتح بشه و تحت سلطهش قرار بگیرهکتاب دیالوگی به شیوه دیالکتیکی میان یک گوریل سخنگو (اسماعیل) و یک انسان است که در غالبی داستان گونه گنجانده شد
مخاطب اگر در این مسیر با اسماعیل همراه شود و استدلالی‌های علمی و منطقی‌اش را بشوند، در پایان سفر نظر متفاوتی نسبت به جایگاه خودش در جهان پیدا می‌کند، که شاید یکی از نتایج ملموس آن، ترک نسبی خودمحوری و گرایش به یکی پنداشتن خود با طبعیت و دیگر جانداران و نوعی وحدت باشد.توضیح مفصل‌تر درباره‌ی کتاب(view spoiler)[ذهن تحلیلی در جدال با ذهن اسطوره‌ایتا آنجا که به تاریخ مکتوب دسترسی داریم، اولین مبارز و شهید مبارزه با ذهن اسطوره‌ای سقراط بود، راهی که افلاطون آن را ادامه داد و انقلاب فرهنگی را در یونان باستان پایه‌گذاری کرد.
Mystified, inspired, depressed and exhilarated by the same book; it was bound to polarize readers. Definitely the best (philosophical) novel based on the Socratic dialogue method I have ever read - many times better than the pale imitations it spawned. The call to action of the book is the real mystery - Ishmael poses the final question to us in the back of his poster... Hoping to put up a full review soon.
At first I hesitated reading this book, I thought it wasn't my thing. ... But boy oh boy, was I wrong. It blew my mind. It broadened my horizons and it even got me interested in the history and evolution. This book is really interesting and it's a reminder of how badly we treat mother Earth.
i could crap a better book than this. it's condescending and trying to be profound but very simplistic. if you've already been introduced to basic ideas about we're ruining the earth and need to get our act together, you'll learn nothing new here. and the whole wise teacher/pupil thing is so cliche. so what if he's a gorilla?
You will not like it....If you care about the leeches in this world robbing us of our environment for business, like the Kochs brothers,for example, you won't like this book.If you care about the environment and about the "leavers",and making sure our descendents will have an earth to live and thrive on due to protecting our environment, you will "get" this book,and give it the high ratings it deserves.
The discussions between the characters is all leading up to what's important , what's truly important in this world, which is having a world at all.....instead of the Koch brothers,and others pouring chemicals into our air, water, our soil, our food, to make more money instead of allowing the earth to thrive as it should.
Well, this is a sociology/ecology lecture loosely disguised as a novel that makes you sit back and say "why didn't I think of that, it's so obvious to me now!" And it's done in a way that continually builds on the presented ideas so that you understand the concepts from the ground up. Loved it. Think everyone should read it.
The quintessential hippie college book. Years after college, I found it left on a beach in Hawaii, like so many LaRouche pamplets on university campuses, and read it in a few sittings. To anyone with half a brain and some college education, a lot of this book will seem painfully obvious, as this type of thinking has so permeated public conciousness in recent years. But if you can turn the volume down on your censors even a little, there's much to be appreciated here. I will never look at zoos the same way...
Don't read this book. It was miserable.
Especially since I parked over the spray-painted message time and time again.Would people really read this book if it was called "Ricardo" or "Paul"...I say no.So thanks for giving it this name that nobody has except for people obsessed with Moby Dick, which I have not come across.I think intellectuals like to say that this book changed their mind on the way they thought about things.It's from the perspective of the other side.I liked it, but didn't love it.Personally, I get agitated when people constantly pick this book or something like Herman Hesse as something that changed their life or their philosophy of things.I can't explain why, but most people I know are really limited as to what they read and they read the SAME type of books.I just want to stab them in the face since it's the same type of people who are wannabe intellectuals that say this.I certainly am not an intellectual, but I try to be.But there's a certain type of intellectual that I definitely make an attempt NOT to be.And that is people like my ex-girlfriend.
Definitely a hippie book, at first I thought the philosophy behind it was all about saving nature, the rainforests, blah blah.. :> But it's really about something deeper, challenging human 'nature' as we know it. Truly an amazing book.
جورج اورول جایی گفته بود : کتاب خوب(خوب به معنای عام) قرار نیست اطلاعات،دانش جدید یا چیز غریبی به شعور کسی اضافه کنه،بلکه چیزی رو میگه که درصورت نظمدادن به افکارت،خودت میتونی بهش برسیو اسماعیل دقیقا همین بودداستان(اسطوره) آفرینش،تکامل،تاریخ تمدن و سرمایهداری و الخ رو کسی نیست که ندونه ولی تقریبا هیچکس عادت نداره در اون قالبی که "باید" بهش فکر کنهمجموعا عالی بود و حرف زیادی درموردش نمیتونم بزنم،فقط اسماعیل از کاراکتر مقابل خواست که چیزی رو که بهش آموخته رو به صدنفر دیگه آموزش بده و اونا رو هم تشو
جورج اورول جایی گفته بود : کتاب خوب(خوب به معنای عام) قرار نیست اطلاعات،دانش جدید یا چیز غریبی به شعور کسی اضافه کنه،بلکه چیزی رو میگه که درصورت نظم‌دادن به افکارت،خودت می‌تونی بهش برسیو اسماعیل دقیقا همین بودداستان(اسطوره) آفرینش،تکامل،تاریخ تمدن و سرمایه‌داری و الخ رو کسی نیست که ندونه ولی تقریبا هیچ‌کس عادت نداره در اون قالبی که "باید" بهش فکر کنهمجموعا عالی بود و حرف زیادی درموردش نمی‌تونم بزنم،فقط اسماعیل از کاراکتر مقابل خواست که چیزی رو که بهش آموخته رو به صدنفر دیگه آموزش بده و اونا رو هم تشویق کنه که به صدنفر دیگه آموزش بدن
The rest of the novel largely follows the gorilla teachings and the slow acceptance and understanding of the pupil.
Population gets out of control, no problem, without technology and agriculture, Mother Nature will cull our herds with disease, starvation, and death.
In my opinion, starvation and disease is not an acceptable answer for population control.
Do I believe we need to find more harmony with nature – yes.
Do I believe we need to control our population growth – of course.
I don’t believe we need a wholesale return to a pre-agricultural existence to save the world.
Sadly, we have been taught, and we continue to teach others, that this evil is actually good: not that we should be destroying our environment, but that it is a consequence of an otherwise noble pursuit of our culture.
With "Ishmael", Daniel Quinn bravely explores and exposes the destructive consequences of the assumptions of this culture."Ishmael" is a very important book, if the previous paragraph wasn't dramatic enough for you.
Yes, the eponymous character is a telepathic gorilla; this is simply a device to project the arguments beyond the imposed isolation of civilization, to make us think about what nature could be teaching us if we tried to listen to it.
The narrative tale of Ishmael - a telepathic teacher/student relationship between a gorilla and disillusioned youth, respectively - is a thinly veiled attempt on Quinn's part to present his anthropological arguments in a more entertaining way.
The weakness in the narrative is almost always negated by Quinn's theory, which makes the book oddly difficult to put down.
It is important to note that most countries in need of such aid are only in such a position because of imperialist conquests for their land and resources, and that the idea of saving everyone goes as much against sacrificing the 'one right way' mentality as the idea of killing them does.
What Quinn fails to recognize is that humans need more than just food.
They would need something to give their lives meaning.
That's a key component of humanity that Quinn's novel fails to address.
Humans need something to give their lives purpose.
Quinn shows an obvious lack of knowledge in many of the fields of study he pulls from to fill this book, including creative writing.
It seems to me that the author had a hard time getting his academic work published, and decided to write a "novel" with a talking ape.
Everybody should read this book.
Intriguing story of a man and his gorilla teacher. Slow beginning but definitely picks up in interest. A challenge to our ordinary values and thinking. It speaks to the need for a new way of seeing: well, our old way is clearly not working! I haven't read the other books in the series but would like to. A creative way of exploring different possibilities of being in the world.
But unlike other modern works which use the form of the Grand Narrative to critique or subvert it (the first Matrix film being the most widely recognized example, and many of the short stories of Borges being more notable), Ishmael, in its weaker moments, succumbs to its own overarching prescription.
The "Law of Limited Competition," and the thinly veiled suggestion that the book in our hands is the product of the narrator's tutelage under Ishmael are two examples of this.
Ultimately, books like Ishmael and films like The Matrix are concerned with the fundamental epistemological crisis that is part and parcel with self-consciousness: Where did we come from and how can we know?
