https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114955.The_Arctic_Incident
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: A Bond villain, his henchman, and their arch enemies go on a road trip, they bond, and have a Bond style adventure.
It follows the adventures of the thirteen-year-old criminal mastermind, Artemis Fowl II, as he thwarts a goblin rebellion and rescues his father, Artemis Fowl I.
عنوان: آرتمیس فاول و ماجرای شمال - کتاب دوم؛ آرتمیس فاول: حادثه شمالی - کتاب دوم؛ نویسنده: ایون کالفر؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه ژانویه سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: آرتمیس فاول و ماجرای شمال - کتاب دوم؛ نویسنده: ایون کالفر؛ مترجم: شیدا رنجبر؛ تهران، افق؛ 1383، در 402 ص؛ چاپ سوم 1386؛ شابک: 9789643691441؛ چاپ چهارم 1387؛ چاپ پنجم 1389؛ چاپ هفتم 1392؛ موضوع: داستان پریان؛ داستانهای نوجوانان - از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 21 معنوان: آرتمیس فاول: حادثه شمالی - کتاب دوم؛ نویسنده: ایون کالفر؛ مترجم: حسین قنبری؛ تهران، شریعه توس؛ 1384، در 347 ص؛ شابک: 9648557071؛ آرتمیس‌ فاول‌، پسر سیزده‌ ساله‌ ی نابغه‌، و ماجراجو، در مدرسه‌ شبانه‌ روزی، یک ای.میل دریافت‌ ميیکند.
That's the name of the game in Eoin Colfer's The Arctic Incident.Child prodigy and criminal mastermind, Artemis Fowl is searching for his kidnapped father.
The scope of his world is rather limited to Fowl's criminal human underworld and a sort of cartoonish MI5/police bomb squad fairy agency.
Though the scope may be narrow, it helps to keep the plot super tight, and I ain't complaining about that.
Later on in the book I found myself zoning out during the non-stop action.
This is book #2 in Colfer's Artemis Fowl series and many of the same characters reappear.
The Artemis Fowl books really are perfect for a quick, easy read.
Which is good, because I'll be doing the twenty-four hour readathon tomorrow, and I really don't want to get burnt out on reading!The Arctic Incident develops Artemis as a more sympathetic figure, having left behind his attempts to exploit the People (the fairies), and feeling some remorse over how he handled things in the first book.
SPOILER FREE   review if you will not open spoiler tags   Remember, it’s always darkest before the dawn     OVERVIEW  Artemis' Father was missing for almost two years. He went missing when the Russian Mafia attacked him for the the reason: (view spoiler)[ because his father was about to run business in Russia. And The Mafia couldn't bear it and they attacked him when he was coming in Russia (hide spoiler)]But his father was found by Russian Mafia, alive, even after the attack which was kind of
He went missing when the Russian Mafia attacked him for the the reason: (view spoiler)[ because his father was about to run business in Russia.
And The Mafia couldn't bear it and they attacked him when he was coming in Russia  (hide spoiler)]But his father was found by Russian Mafia, alive, even after the attack which was kind of stupid to me and they demanded ransom from Artemis, a criminally-good 13 years old.
So the question arises who is helping goblins in smuggling?Or how Artemis will use fairies to rescue his Father?
(hide spoiler)] Overall  , the book was a good read.
The book, though, is about Artemis trying to find his father and he has a strong lead - in arctic Russia.As he plans to set out, the Fairies capture him in an attempt to learn who on the above ground world is smuggling weapons.
Artemis, after book one antics is the prime suspect.The two groups work together to help one another and another great adventure is had.
But still it's no excuse to commit pedophilia.I bet Artemis Fowl would look exactly like a younger version of Chuck, but take off the sneakers and make him wear loafers.Artemis Fowl: The Arctic Incident, is the second book of the Artemis Fowl Series by Eoin Colfer.
However, with the super-advanced techies the People have, they deduce that Artemis Fowl is really innocent.
The People instead ask Artemis for his assistance to find the human behind all this.
He asks that the Fairy People help him retrieve his father.But just as Artemis and the fairy people reach ground, everything begins to unravel.Artemis Fowl is a really good book.
Just when he gets proof that his father is alive and being held as a prisoner in Russia, Artemis is captured by the Faerie police force under suspicion for colluding with a goblin gang.
(view spoiler)[ Artemis makes a deal with Holly and Root to help them solve their problem if they, in turn, take him to Russia to rescue his dad.
Once the true culprits of the goblin "uprising" are caught, Holly and Root stay true to their word and help rescue Artemis's father.
I can't wait to start the third book now.Okay, so in this book Artemis is trying to find out what happened to his dad ..
Of course they make the wrong assumption and they need Artemis's help.
but I was also scared because what if everything goes wrong?Throughout the book I loved the friendship that was forming between Artemis, Holly, and Root.
I really liked Holly and Root in this book two.
Artemis and his mom are reunited with his dad and they are a family again.
I feel like something is going to happen.
Of course like the first one it rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrroooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccckkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
"Deep beneath the layers of deviousness, you have a spark of decency. Perhaps you could blow on that spark occasionally." This has been one of my favorite series since I started reading it as a child, so I'm glad to say that it lives up to my memories on rereading. The story is well written, the characters are fun and distinct, and the pacing is perfect for a middlegrade story. In this installment we get to see Artemis working somewhat nicely with others. He still has his schemes, but he's on a
"Deep beneath the layers of deviousness, you have a spark of decency.
Perhaps you could blow on that spark occasionally."
This has been one of my favorite series since I started reading it as a child, so I'm glad to say that it lives up to my memories on rereading.
The story is well written, the characters are fun and distinct, and the pacing is perfect for a middlegrade story.
The villains are probably one of my favorite parts of this.
If you haven't read this series and you enjoy middlegrade stories and fae, I would say give it a read.
Yes I was very much enjoying this book.The action is great, tempered with the laugh out loud humor.
I don't normally like precocious, know-it-all kids, but something about Artemis that I just love.
He's got a weary soul and a sadness for his young age, but it's no wonder since he is pretty much supporting his family since the disappearance of Artemis Fowl, Sr. In this installment, Artemis gets to rescue dear old dad from the Russian Mafiya (okay I probably shouldn't be such a Russian Mafia fiction fangirl but I am).
My second foray into the world of Artemis Fowl was another quick, fun adventure.
Once again this ends up involving the fairy world including Artemis and Butler's first trip down below.Engaging from the first page this book has a great pace that kept me turning (or should I say clicking) through the pages.
This is a children's book but is written in a way that would improve a child's knowledge and understanding but will also entertain (and even teach) an adult.I like what I'm getting from this series and am keen to continue it at some stage.
I completely fell in love with the first book in this series, however this second iteration has fallen short of the mark set by the first.It's by no means a bad book, and I enjoyed the view point of Holly Short more in this than the first.
Artemis managed to outsmart everyone else in a convincing manner, but at no point did I feel confused by him or his actions.
He regularly forgot basic things that even I had managed to remember.A shame, and I'm not sure if I'll move onto book 3 or not :/
So the second book of the ARTEMIS FOWL. It was a pretty light, funny read actually.  This time the focus is on the faerie people . And Artemis is basically on the subplot, but its important nevertheless. It was really funny to see how captain short cope up with artemis and his body-guard. :p Looking forward to more actions in the next books.
3.5 Stars
BOMBARDA SEI TUTTO.Also non so come si possano leggere questi libri da bambini e non restarne profondamente traumatizzati. Colfer writes some fucked up shit, sometimes.
And this was SO MUCH BETTER THAN THE FIRST BOOK! I'm glad Artemis is finally friends with the faeries!
“We're being led by an idiot with a crayon.” Basically, one part of the book that totally make me laughed. Some part of the wits and humor are so real, it's undeniable for you not to get knock out of it.I love how the plot takes us to explore more about the People, how the alliance works on with different species to remind that the group once try to kill each other and now, help one another.  "To remind you that deep beneath the layers of deviousness, you have a spark of decency. Perhaps you co
Some part of the wits and humor are so real, it's undeniable for you not to get knock out of it.I love how the plot takes us to explore more about the People, how the alliance works on with different species to remind that the group once try to kill each other and now, help one another.
I love to see the character development of Artemis.
Ops, crush's alert boy hahaha.Oh, all of the characters in this book are so different and none try to overshadow one another and I think, that's good.
he was giddy, for this video only represented one thing: HOPE.Seeing him softened when he talks about his father, looking at how he manages to cooperate with Holly and other LePreCons to get the job done – it was a whole other side of his character and i liked that.
She is one quirky character and i’m looking forward to seeing her in the later books.There is still a whole lot of action, and a whole lot of manipulation (by Artemis, of course).
I’ll definitely continue reading this series.
I had fun reading it, but still, I had hoped for an improvement and ended up being a little disappointed.
I don't have a lot to say, I enjoyed reading The Arctic Incident but at the same time I didn't like it as much as I hoped I would.
Pfft, come on, something less predictable the next time.) I also had some problems with...Artemis.
I think I'm going to express them by writing a letter to him:Dear Artemis, you went from evil sarcastic genius to little boy with problems about morality.
Grow a pair, not a stupid thing like a moral compass.
IF ALIVE PLSE HLP. IF NOT, WRNG NMBR.hey what's the discourse on age gaps in relationships where the 2 parties are different species with radically different life spans just curious no reason
"And, of course, we have fairy magic."I get such a kick out of Artemis' adventures! Teaming up with fairy special ops, outwitting every adult who stands in his way-he's a breath of fresh air. This book finds him hinting for his presumed dead father. But he has to make a deal with the fairies to get help in the arctic circle. With Artemis who knows how this could turn out.
A lot of action - A lot of fantasy - Almost reminded me of the Netflix movie with Will Smith in it ( ugh- can’t remember the name) - I liked it! But a plot in this one was a little predictable.
After two years, he’s finally received word of his father and there is a ransom on Artemis Fowl Senior’s head.With little doubt that execution will follow a delivery of the ransom, Artemis and his trusty bodyguard Butler strike a deal with the fairies: They help them to reveal Haven’s traitor and in return, get magical assistance in the rescue of Artemis’ father.Artemis has never let emotion get the best of him before but all that might be changing.Can they save Haven and Artemis’ father in time?Once I was done listening to the audio book of 'Artemis Fowl', I knew I had to purchase the sequel.
Re-reading Artemis Fowl and the Arctic Incident was once again fantastic!
This shouldn't come as a surprise but Eoin Colfer manages to enthrall me again and again with his books, no matter how many times I have read them.With re-reading this book, I have noticed a few things, actually.
Or at least the start of a friendship that will turn into a strong bond.Another thing I realized was that Trouble Kelp was a little more in the book.
I have to admit that the second Artemis Fowl book was never a favorite of mine.
Great fun on every page. I put down this book with my left hand as I picked up The Eternity Code with my right!
Reread because Artemis Fowl was one of my fave series (and fave characters) as a child and I just missed it all.
* * * *4 / 5~mini review~I had an audible credit leftover and I'd just finished the first Artemis Fowl book so I thought why the heck not? and bought The Arctic Incident. With the introduction of the new nemesis Opal Koboi and the dastardly goblin plot, The Arctic Incident was one of my favourites of the series. I particularly loved the new, more human side to Artemis Fowl. The narration is, again, superb!Read more of my reviews on my blog: http://atlasrisingbooks.wordpress.com
3/24/2018 Reread: 3.5 / 5 starsAn enjoyable reread for me. Fun but not as exciting as the first in the series. I am disappointed that we saw a decrease in the number of female characters featured in this book.
