https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278607.Hunter_s_Green
I enjoyed this a lot. 1960s setting, England. Not sure if I want to qualify it as romantic suspense, mystery or gothic, or equal elements of all three. I liked how the author peeled back the layers of the back story and character bit by bit, instead of an instant info-dump at the beginning of the story.
I bought this one, as well as Black Amber, to dip my toes back in the Whitney waters.I simply cannot remember which of her books I read during my teen gothic phase, when I devoured Whitney, Holt, and Mary Stewart, so this may - or may not - have been the first time I read this book.
Whitney wasn't a fabulous wordsmith (she was no Mary Stewart, for example), but she was a solid writer in the American gothic romance potboiler style.
I'm not a prude, but I'm completely over this aspect of modern romance.
My son just brought home a Phyllis Whitney book from the school library and it reminded me of what a wonderful, fun author she is! She writes interesting mysteries and romantic suspense. When I was a teen, I gobbled up every Phyllis Whitney suspense I could find. I really like her books!
Do all of Phyllis Whitney's heros in her gothics hold the heroines in such bitter contempt before falling in love with them?
It also seems like they really are NASTY for the majority of the book...and not in that attractive dark brooding Heathcliffe/Nicholas VanRhyn type of way either...just complete cads and crotchety jerks...At least in this book, he had some reason to be angry.
But it occurred to me, as this is my 4th book by Whitney, that her heros always seem to act crabby for so much of the book that I cannot see that any sensible woman would want to have anything to do with them.
I read Hunter's Green back in the 70s and still remember a lot about the story.
It started my love of Phyllis A.
Eve North returns to Athmore, her husband's home, when his cousin summons her.
They separated two years before when Justin, her husband, believed she cheated on him.
Now Justin wants to remarry and Maggie, his cousin, wants Eve to prevent it.
But strange things are happening and accidents that aren't accidents.The hero was a bit of a jerk but I loved him.
I discovered Petula Clark by reading this book.
I think I was probably about 11 or 12 when I first read this.
I read this during my young teen years and enjoyed it immensely. A recent re-reading wasn't as satisfying, but my memories are just as good. I can still recall where the book was shelved in that junior high library.I can't say that Whitney's books are to my taste now, but I always appreciated that she immersed her reader into new locales and experiences with each story.First read in 1970
Just completed a reread of this book on Sept. 14 and enjoyed it as much as the first time. It is definitely my favorite book by Phyllis Whitney thus far. Most of her books are set in the U.S but one reason I enjoy this one so much is because it is set in England and has a Gothic feel to it, which are my favorites.
Like every other gothic and/or romantic suspense story, there are other characters who could easily have their own reasons for setting such a deadly trap and some red herrings, and our heroine must try to keep herself safe as well as to solve the mystery, before it's too late.For the most part, I enjoyed the book, although I suspect some readers will find Justin's attitude toward Eve and his treatment of her appalling at times and tiresome.
The most aggravating part is that he doesn't seem to even consider her side of the story, and it's hard to understand what Eve sees in him at times.An enjoyable read that may prompt you to check out other books from this author.
Hunter's Green - Phyllis A.
Whitney for Country House Mystery Would also work for Genre: Suspense, Terrifying Women, Murder Most Foul, Amateur Sleuth, and Romantic Suspense.
It's fun reading these old thrillers that are so slow, with hardly any murder, no kids or really old people, and servents neither seen nor heard.
They're charmingly predictable.
And although this was published in 68 and makes much of the brash young mods, they feel So Old Fashioned.
There are phones, but only to ring up the doctor or the police to haul away the perpetrator.
I suppose this is what people are talking about when they reminisce about a slower time.
Whitney for a long time, so my reviews of her books are not necessarily the best by which to judge how good a book actually is.
I grade through nostalgia: for the time of which she writes, and also for who I used to be when I read this book for the first time.
I have to admit that it has been many years since I read this particular book, but I did enjoy it - even this second (third or fourth, perhaps?) time around.
If you're looking for a good, relatively contemporary Gothic romance for a rainy, gloomy day, then check out Hunter's Green.
This is the kind of cozy book I like to read to wind down after a long day. Character-driven suspense is my fave, and this one is set in Britain, to boot . Hunter's Green didn't fail to provide that memorable, yet untrustworthy cast of characters which is Whitney's trademark. However, I did guess the ending, which is always a bit of a letdown. I liked the allusions that tied in with chess pieces.
This was my least favorite Phyllis Whitney. I remember I didn't like Justin at all until the car accident part at the end, and I could see what was going to happen and how way in advance. Also, Eve struck me as whiney. Couldn't get emotionally engaged in either main character.
This was the first book of hers I read. It does start slow to give a background to the characters but has you read on the characters roles become intertwined and mysterious. You don't know the intent of the characters until the last chapter.
I read everything by this author I could get my hands on the summer I was 14. I found this one at a Book Crossing.
Thrilling WritingI found Phyllis Whitney during my college days in the seventies. Loved her then, love her still🐱 Well done Phyllis
That tall rook of green-black yew who had it in his power to destroy the king and end the game..." When Eve North returns to Athmore after three years' separation from her husband Justin, she finds the great estate-and Justin himself-vastly changed.
Old Daniel-just before he is sent to his death-tries to warn Eve. It is he who carved from the green-black yew a topiary garden, one of the marvels of Athmore.
Eve finds herself entrapped on a chessboard of evil, unsure of her next move, yet aware that the black rook will move again-this time to destroy her.
More like, 1.5.It was boring.
Plain like that.
Zzzzzzzzz.For more than half of the book, nothing happens.
Not that that is normally a bad thing.
But if nothing happens, there have to be at least likeable characters, good dialogues.
And no, this book doesn't have any of these.Eve was such a pitiful character, always remembering the past.
The hero was the least likeable one I have read in a PW book (and in the other two, the heroes were pretty unlikeable, always angry).
I did not care if Eve leave and stay.The love triangle was ridiculous, and I am talking about the reasons.
I believe I read this one years and years ago and I'm beginning to wonder if I made it through to the end back then. I find this author's books to go exceedingly slow and much of the back story of characters is told, not acted out. Because of this the part I read didn't move the story ahead much because of all this 'showing' and introspection. Get on the with story, for goodness sake. It might have been a good story, but I'll never know as I can't bring myself to pick this up again.
It was a plane story. In every book there is a "take off" of the story from which novel becomes so interesting that you can't put it down. I was unable to find that "take off". One thing was great in the book that it didn't seemed old. I think my disliking of romantic genre was a main cause of one star rating. Overall this book is almost fine for a girl with a soft heart.
Clean, suspenseful romance. I read it in one day -- stayed up late to finish it!The writing style is different from how it would be today, as she 'tells' more than 'shows'. There are several flashbacks, but Whitney's such a skillful writer you don't notice it until later.
One of my absolute favorites!!!! I absolutely love gothic romances with all of the mystery and the strong female characters. Phyllis A. Whitney is an amazing author incorporating an unforgettable story with amazing characters.
This was ridiculous. I've been reading gothic romances from back in the day and generally enjoying them, but this one never came together. Driving a car with a bumper all the way around it through the woods is just one example of the doesn't-make-sense-itude of this book.
One of her better stories.
Eve returns to her husband's English estate after a three-year separation from Justin, who has decided to divorce her and remarry. She is determined to win back her love, but events turn sinister.
Seriously one of my favorite books. It's my go to book for a good, quick read. I first read it as a young teenager, so maybe that is why I still like it so much...
I really enjoyed this book. Nice pace through the whole read. Pace picked up toward the end.
I've read this a few times. It's not one of her better books. I can't quite remember what it's about.
This is a romantic suspense novel from the 60's. It had a slow start but became more interesting. All in all, the motives and the denouement didn't justify all the preceding fuss and feathers.
Really enjoyable mystery
Awesome book haven't read a Phyllis A Whitney book yet that I didn't like, I love how she decries all her settings and makes you feel like you are there!
