https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1305396.The_Land_of_Hidden_Men
This is a fun piece of adventure/fantasy fiction from good old Burroughs. It's one of his jungle tales (which I rarely read from him, having skipped most of his Tarzan books so far) and it's exciting stuff. There are no supernatural or sci-fi elements unless you count the two lost ancient kingdoms in the Cambodian jungles untouched by the passage of centuries. Our hero's name is Gordon King and, believe it or not, this presents a bit of a reading problem when Gordon King is referred to as simply
Our hero's name is Gordon King and, believe it or not, this presents a bit of a reading problem when Gordon King is referred to as simply “King” and he interacts with kings who enter the scene only to be called “the King” (yes, it's capitalized).
Burroughs employs familiar elements like a modern man gaining skill as a jungle warrior and the romance of a kidnapped princess.
It's all got that “Flash Gordon” quality that I always look to Burroughs for, even if there aren't any rockets present.
If you're looking for good 1930's era pulp fiction, you've come to the right place. Fans of ERB's Mars, Venus, Pellucidar, or Tarzan books will enjoy this novel. True, the plot is somewhat predicatable, and the chapters read like monthly installments (like they were), but its great fun to read. You also have to ignore some of the prejudices of the era, particularly the roles of women and men, but as long as you know that going in, you'll enjoy a good story.
I love Edgar Rice Burroughs, but this book just recycled all of the same "damsel in distress" and "modern outsider in the primitive jungle" ideas from his better and more original books.
Fun jungle adventure pulp from the pen of the master ERB. Surprisingly devoid of his usual racism, but as patriarchal as ever, you still have to bracket certain contemporary sensitivities to enjoy, including any concern for the virtual extinction of the Asian tiger - the protagonist manages to dispatch three within 190 pages.
The book follows the pot-boiler adventures of Gordon King, a doctor who gets lost in the jungles of Cambodia, fights tigers, and gets involved with the politics and intrigue between two ancient cities that still exists as Angkor may have 1,500 years ago.
(I liked the idea of a leper king so much in my teen years, it found its way into the pulpy adventure comics I wrote and drew at the time.)How did it hold up?
The Leper King was still a fun idea, and the concept of forgotten kingdoms buried in the jungles of Cambodia was fun to picture.
I am a sucker for Edgar Rice Burroughs.
I started reading him in middle school and spent much time and a little money collecting his novels at the used book stores during the 1970s.
This is one of his stand alone books (not part of a series).
It does follow the Edgar Rice Burroughs formula.
If you like that then you will probably like this book.Our daring hero is abandoned by his guide in the jungles of Cambodia...Take a look at it here: http://www.thecapnsquarters.com/Free_...
or The Guttenburg of Australia has an HTML version at http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks03/0300...or Buy a print copy.
Talking of Burroughs introducing people to the unfamiliar, this book was my first inkling of such places as Angkor Wat. The story itself has very little to do with that, but it served as a springboard for me to investigate Cambodian history.About all I remember about the book itself is that the hero, despite knowing better, drinks contaminated water, and that the locals call tigers 'My Lord The Tiger'.
Burroughs at the Height of his PowersPure fantasy wish-fulfillment in the grand ERB style. The plot is standard Burroughs, but the presentation and world-building crackle. Not tethered to a series, this would make a great introduction to the world of ERB for the initiate and is a must-read for the longtime fan who wants to scratch the itch but take a break from Tarzan and/or the various other lines.
Also published as The Land of Hidden Men, this is a page-turner set in Cambodia as an adventurous American, Gordon King finds himself lost in the jungle and discovers two warring hidden cities, and, of course, 'true love'. Classic ERB with abductions, swords and spears, savage tigers, beautiful girls, tyrants, traitors and heros.
Also published as The Jungle Girl, this is a page-turner set in Cambodia as an adventurous American, Gordon King finds himself lost in the jungle and discovers two warring hidden cities, and, of course, 'true love'. Classic ERB with abductions, swords and spears, savage tigers, beautiful girls, tyrants, traitors and heros.
You never go wrong with a Burroughs book for fast paced adventure and action. As usual this one grabs you up in the first chapter and sweeps you along for a fast easy and enjoyable read. Very recommended
I bought this on a gamble from a Powell's promo -- grab bag book for a $1. Originally published in 1931 in London, this book takes places in the jungles of Cambodia. The main character, Gordon King, gets lost in the jungle when his guide refuses to enter. A great story follows.
Easily the best Burroughs book I've read.
read some time in 1996
Absolutely outstanding A great read for the era in which it was written. It shows some knowledge of the orient . Enjoyable reading.
Always a good adventure of the hero getting the girl, loved it!
Good story. Actually set in Cambodia, rather than a fantastical world.
Still love E.R.B.
Really Outstanding Tale!I truly enjoyed this book! But what else could one expect from the eloquent pen and mind of this fine author.
