https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781182.Barbarians_at_the_Gate
Perhaps a bit dated now, but the author (a financial journalist) describes what happened here in the States in the 80's, a time when small businesses (and huge ones like RJR Reynolds) were bought out, sometimes just for the land they were built upon.
Then the grackles (crow-like birds) arrive in mass and devour the food in the feeders.
One will see a dozen of these ugly birds gorging themselves, spitting out seeds they don't like and often knocking the feeder from its perch.
I guess the secret is filling the feeders with a mixture of seed they don't like...
Corporate finance is labyrinthian by nature--to understand what actually happened in any given deal requires being able to track the money, the legal manuverings, and the easily ignored but incredibly critical personal relationships.
It turns out in real life, far more important factors are who plays golf with who and who is still pissed about not getting onto the board of some third company two years ago.) Barbarians at the Gate involves hundreds of people, with literally dozens of main characters (helpfully listed out by firm in the front of the book, a list you will return to again and again).
Johnson negotiated the merger as head of Standard Brands with Nabisco.
He agreed to let Nabisco CEO Bob Schaeberle head the combined companies while he remained second in command.
It is a little confusing that the book made a sudden shift to detailing the history of Reynolds but you figure out that this company was to be the next venture Mr. Johnson got involved with.
Ross Johnson, as head of Nabisco, agreed to let RJ Reynolds chief Tylee Wilson head the combined company and be his second in command.
11-07-08This tsunami of details in this story of the leveraged buy-out of RJR Nabisco would be mind-numbing if it were not for the sharp anger at the incessant and insatiable greed it highlights.One feels an eerie sense of déjà vu reading this book.
The RJR Nabisco takeover battle was fought in 1988, but the unmitigated (and unregulated) greed on the part of Wall Street seems to only have changed in form, not in magnitude.
It borders (then and now) on the obscene.This book is not for the faint of heart – the reader is led step-by-step, moment-by-moment through the byzantine world of leveraged buy outs.
went up to the parents' house over christmas, and found this in the garage, and was like "what?
the parents don't read books" and, worried it might be mistaken for a delicious meal, grabbed it.
An absolutely untrustworthy book, unreferenced and unknowable details aren't so much papered-over as gleefully thrust upon the reader.
Who facilitates these crude and stumbling thrusts of explicative derring-do?In fact, this book was terrible.
Serfs are no longer allowed; like the first Internet Boom, I was born a few years too late to cash in.
Extremely unlikable rich assholes brought low by equally unsavory, but way smarter rich people.It’s the story of an attempt to take RJR Nabisco private, and then a series of take over attempts that were instigated by the original privatization plan.
Johnson, the CEO of RJR comes off as a dick, and not very smart at all.
He’s like a frat boy who makes by glad handing people and buying rounds of drinks – i.e. the kind of rich guy I hate the most.
Kravis, of legendary take over firm KKR, comes off like a financier god.
Detailed - and downright shocking - display of the egos and attitudes of hundreds of real people involved in the biggest private equity buyout of its day (and until relatively recent days). Describes far too many people to follow and too much detail, but the sheer magnitude of greed, excess and penis envy is amazing.The DVD of the same title gives the abridged version of the story. It's quite hard to follow the story without knowing the background from the book. DVD also emphasizes Linda Robinson's character and her role compared to the book.
"'we were charging right through the rice paddies, not stopping for anything and taking no prisoners.'"This was FUN! So much so that I went and bought loads of non-fic/faction about Wall Street. What is it with me and the 80s? If I'm not reading about AIDS, I'm reading about Gordon Gekkos.Anyway, everyone in this is just a monster. And whilst "Barbarians at the Gate" is a doozy title, it's total crap. They're all barbarians. It should be called "A Shitstorm of Evil Bastards".
For example, the rise of Johnson through the ranks of Standard Brands, the late night drinking brainstorming sessions he has with those whom have risen with him, and his constant need to have change going on around him provide adequate background to explain his somewhat puzzling decision to think up and execute the idea of a LBO of RJR Nabisco: essentially the share price isn't where he wants it and he thinks RJR Nabisco is becoming staid.The resulting frenzy of action unleashed by the (at the time) largest LBO in history, from Henry Kravis's (whom Johnson originally talked to about the LBO) wheeling and dealing to scrap together the money to enter the LBO bid to the surprise introduction of First Boston and their off-the-wall strategy to make a deal happen, kept the story going at a good pace and the authors did a nice job of flipping between different storylines to keep things from going stale.The book also give a great idea of how much the personalities of those involved in the business deal affect the decisions made.
This book was recommended to me by a business school professor who referred to it as "the best business book on private equity." As someone who studied finance at NYU and a lifelong student of history, I was intrigued.
I learned a tremendous deal about private equity, the mid-to-late century evolution of finance on Wall Street, and the important role of corporate governance in business.
Some of these points were not discussed on an academic level (e.g. evolution of finance and corporate governance), but this book provided great case examples of topics I had learned in school.
LBO 역사에 한 획을 그었던 RJR내비스코의 기업 인수 건을 두고 벌어졌던 6주 간의 이야기를 논픽션으로 구성한 책이다.
정말 재미있게 읽었다.
소설보다 흥미진진하다.
약간의 금융지식과 금융에 대한 호기심이 있다면 더욱 재미있을 것 같다.
80년대 호황기의 탐욕의 상징같은 인물로 그려지는 CEO 로스 존슨과 이 건을 계기로 인수합병 분야에서 자신들의 위치를 올리고 싶어하는 시어슨, 살로몬 진영, 그리고 인수합병의 최강자인 KKR과 80년대의 상징적인 인물인 정크본드의 지배자 마이클 밀켄의 드렉셀 번햄 진영, 마지막으로 바세르스타인이라는 핵심 인물을 잃고 휘청이면서 인수합병 분야의 지위를 잃어가던 퍼스트보스턴의 지휘자인 마허와 그의 부하들 진영, 이렇게 여러 진영이 뒤엉키면서 이해관계가 얽히고 부딪히는 것이 정말 재미있게 그려진다.
PEF, LBO, 인수합병에 대해서 알고 싶은 사람이라면 반드시 읽어봐야할 고전이라고 생각한다.
Any who has an interest in mergers and acquisitions will love this book. Or anyone who has an interest in an absolutely amazing story. And it's all true, which is even more amazing.
Corporations back in the day were established to create products and provide services and have certain laws and rights applied to the organization and its employees.
Well, the management group gets some investors together and banks to provide money via cash and bonds and make an offer to the company.
This book describes Johnson providing zero value to the company as CEO.
What's that?It's where you buy a company with, you guessed it, other people's money.
That layer is wall street which is looking to extract money from the valued center companies.
Knowing something of corporate finance, I loved this. The book presumes some familiarity with that topic. Amazing picture of greed and venality. Very eye-opening.
Even better after reading Benjamin Barber's "Consumed."It's probably because I don't get around much, but I've only seen one depiction of greed that I thought was funny, and that's the one from The Addams Family, in which Gomez Addams shows the impostor Fester how to get to the money vault by pulling on the book titled "Greed" on the bookshelf.Then there's the other kind of greed, the greed that is just nasty, heartless, shameful and yet shameless, as epitomized in Barbarians at the Gate, a wonderful non-fiction book by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar.
It all made the deal my father-in-law offered us on his Honda Pilot, at a mere $14,000, look a lot better, so we're going that route again.This ties in with Barbarians because with the amounts of money involved in competing attempts to buy RJR Nabisco, there is no perspective.
This book paints a grim picture of high finance and corporate excess.
This book enraged me at times - it's what you might call a "sausage maker" - the more you know about what goes into high finance, the more unpalatable it becomes.
"Mergers and Acquisitions - M&A - were the ultimate creature of Wall Street because win, lose, or draw, they produced fees: fees for advising, fees for divesting unwanted businesses, fees for lending money.
The entire Leveraged Buyout industry had become the province of quick buck artists.""Here it was, the biggest bit of history, and what did they really know about RJR Nabisco?
When you run out of Eichenwald books to read, most algorithms point you here.
For much of this book, that's an apt recommendation.
The difference, is that Eichenwald tends to exam corporate malfeasance and the ne'er-do-wells getting their comeuppance.
Here, well, Ross Johnson & crew to some degree are rewarded (though their malfeasance is not great as Eichenwald's subjects - maybe just their greed).
In the epilogue here there seems to be a sort of apologetic tone for "Ross was just a product of his time", rather than perhaps the roasting on a spit that would have been deserved.
That said, an enjoyable recommended read, if you're into that sort of thing.
The tactics, backstabbing, gossiping and most of all the foul mouthing is bizarre and thus intriguing.., it's a huge read but well worth it if you're interested in leveraged buyouts, upper management, conglomerate companies and Chief Exec's who have lost contact with us earthlings..On a personal note; Reading this book made me grow more conspicuous of upper management in general.Where I used to think that _a_ Chief Exec/Finance/Operations Officer must be quite good at their job, I nowadays think it's a rat race to the top, and that there are very few good ones left in the normal companies around.
but more about the run of the mill national companies where we normal people are working.
This book is weird.
It's written like a taut spy-thriller, and superficially it's a "page-turner"-- everything on the page seemed very exciting and I kept wanting to read it.
But the stuff being written about-- the tale of some investment bankers fighting over who gets to buy RJR Nabisco-- is boring beyond belief.
Lots of arcana about leveraged buy outs, endless paragraph-long sketches of interchangeable middle-aged white guys engaged in a financial dick swinging contest, pages upon pages devoted to what this lawyer said to that lawyer...
who cares.
And yet I more or less read it to the end!
I have not read such an exciting business book for a while. "Barbarians" is an outstanding account on the insights of the LBO world, written by two reporters with an appetite for refined ridiculousness. I was amazed at the relevance of the reported absurdities with contemporary criticism on Big Finance, though nowadays the spotlight was set on proprietary and algorithmic trading.If you are into business case studies or just historical accounts of grand corporate events, this book is for you.
I started reading this book because it was on the "must read" business book list. I kept reading all 500 pages because it was really, really interesting! Yes, much of that is because I am currently a business nerd, but the way businesses operated at that time, especially with such a large amount of money on the line, is fascinating.Not for every reader, which is why it is only at 4 stars here, but really a 4.5/5 in my book
Little do we realise what makes the world go round .I don’t think the book has aged well though for 2 reasons : 1) When written the backgrounds of these characters would have been fascinating, they’re all real people in the newspapers day in and day out.
It’s still a fascinating  story  without understanding this but I’d have expected to have had this broken down to me in a tome this large.PS : Keep Googling the characters (even the minor ones) you encounter in this book.
The ultimate winner of the deal was not even KKR who won the bid at $108 per share and struggled with a heavily debt-burdened company facing public assaults and litigations in the aftermath.
Nor was it Ross Johnson who took French leave with an over $50 million golden parachute.
Even though Ross Johnson kept saying that what he had done and how the deal had gone was right for his shareholders, the ultimate winner was actually the lawyers and investment bankers serving the deal, those who took a big chunk of fees without having to worry about the sinking ship RJR Nabisco after all.
I greatly enjoyed the vignettes about the founding and evolution of Nabisco, RJ Reynolds, KKR though.The main thing that went through my head for the first ~half of the book outlining Ross Johnson's rise to power -- at Standard Brands and at Nabisco -- was just how poorly corporate governance seemed to work.
E.g.: in moving RJR Nabisco from Winston-Salem to Atlanta, Johnson "boosted Sticht's [the chairman's] consulting contract to $250,000 a year from $185,000" and made "a $6 million donation for the J.
I wonder to what extent things like this are still possible today.

Now called "private equity " companies.
Sadly the debt incurred by the companies that are bought, also causes them to be destroyed whilst the banking and private equity firms make a killing in fees.I guess the difference is if management buys it over or is retained.
. but in this instance it wasn't great for the company but the shareholders benefited in this instance; many of which were employees or ex-employees , who were obliged to sell their shareholding, probably because of the type of stock they held.
In the end it wasn't a good investment for the buyer's; not in returns nor publicity.
Since the starting 5 chapters is an introduction to a hell lot of people and I got confused with the characters a lot.
But once you get familiarized with the character you see how tough the world is, you can't trust people, you got to work hard and also make sure others know you work hard.
This is a top level book which gives an idea about the lives of people at the top have.
Do give a read if you want to know the different characters that may be encountered in a deal in the top tier of a company.
The actual content was quite interesting, and a good cautionary tale about not treating money like a play thing and not making decisions based on trying to win a dick measuring contest. It’s also a good reminder that the “smartest guys in the room” can get cocky and instantly become the dumbest guys in the room.If you like reading about a bunch of rich bankers and corporate execs thoroughly embarrassing themselves and their professions, this is the book for you!
Takes a while to get going but once it does, the action is so gripping that you really can't take a break!A fantastic re-creation of the events that led to THE business deal of the 80's. It really does display the greed,money,corruption and ego that ruled Wall Street back in the day in an eloquent manner. A brilliant read, even for someone who isn't interested in the business aspects of the story!
A fascinating tale of Ross Johnson, a Canadian businessman, orchestrating one of the largest landmark cases in LBO history for $25 billion. While depicting a storm of complications in corporate negotiation, Barbarians of the Gate provides a snapshot of the pursuit of greed and glory, the brazen display of egos and the fixation of bumping up EPS from a person who originally did not measure success by a company's stock price. On the other hand, the rise of KKR is well documented as the pioneers of LBOs.
