https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200138.Ethics
"Ethics" was a difficult book to read and desperately cried out for some editing.
In Bonhoeffer's defense, the book was published posthumously, so he never got the opportunity to refine it or interact with an editor.
Ultimately, because of what I wrote in #1, his position on moral dilemmas would have to be some form of graded absolutism, where violating the law of God is not sin if it is done for the good of another.3)	His treatment of truth telling and whether it is ever right to lie was fascinating but incomplete.
Shots fired!' Kant is running for cover like a scared ninny!' Yes, Bonhoeffer's critique can be seen as one big jab at deontological ethical systems, or any system that places good as "the good" and evil as "the evil;" or that is to say, anyone that philosophizes about ethics in purely an abstract form thereby removing the purpose into the abstract and not taking into the account the concrete, the real, the historical.
Bonhoeffer's Ethics is a challenging and fascinating read.
The book is fairly dense and while it makes you regularly stop and think, I couldn't put it down.
It is worth noting that the work is incomplete.
This was Bonhoeffer's final book, written while he was in prison.
Some chapters end abruptly, others are little more than a collection of notes and others are in need of some additional editing he was never able to give.
If you're aware of that going in, it shouldn't be too distracting or take away from the phenomenal read this is.
Rather than being a static set of laws to which we need to conform uniformly in every circumstance, Bonhoeffer claims that a right ethical system is dynamic, requiring responses appropriate to and fully immersed in each individual, unique situation.
In that intimacy, Bonhoeffer claims, we receive the wisdom and guidance particular not only to each of us, but to the action that is appropriate and right for our immediate circumstances.
The Moral Law is not any one instinct or set of instincts: it is something which makes a kind of tune (the tune we call goodness or right conduct) by directing the instincts.” (Mere Christianity, Part 7) Ethics is less about conforming to what is good and more about responding to what is real.
First and foremost, Bonhoeffer explains that the idea of Christian Ethics only makes sense in the context of concrete situations, and then only in relation to the gospel of Jesus Christ.
By making this claim, Bonhoeffer explains that it is not possible to make generalizations that would guide the Christian's ethical behavior in all situations that bear certain defined characteristics.
Instead, the "ethical" situation must be examined in the concrete facts of reality and in the light of the relationship between humankind and God through the mediation of Christ.
Again, a difficult read, but interesting, nonetheless.
Terribly underwhelming. Cost of Discipleship is far more profound and engaging. Ethics was not able to be completed or edited prior to Bonhoeffer's death, so some chapters remain without conclusions or fully developed thoughts. "Christ, Reality, and the Good" and "History and the Good" are decent chapters, however "The Last Things and the Things Before the Last" was painful to read. I stopped about 2/3 of the way through... maybe I'll pick it up again one day.
Bonhoeffer's longest and quite possibly greatest work. Challenging focus on the role and responsibility of the body of Christ.
One of the best and most beautiful books I have ever read. I have saved a few books for myself to read at a later date. What an awesome gift this is to me!
Škoda jen, že poslední autorova kniha je nehotová a že tedy mnohé myšlenky zůstávají jen v nárysu nebo nejsou dokončeny
I had to read this for my doctorate program in my ethics class. If there is something more boring and unreadable than this, I haven't found it yet. Dry, dull, mind-numbingly boring. Run away if you see this book coming for you. It's worst than a zombie apocalypse.
Bonhoeffer was executed before finishing this work, so he is not to blame, and Ethics would be interminable had he been able to finish, I think.
Philosophically, Bonhoeffer dismantles the idea of Ethics as a boundary marker for behavior defined by rules and principles, and attempts instead to construct an ethic based upon freedom in Christ.
It does give rise to a certain level of situation ethics that many will find disturbing, but still has a certain cohesion that makes it attractive.I think Ethics must be taken in the context of Bonhoeffer's broader work.
In general I find Bonhoeffer a little frustrating because he's very good at describing what he's against and why it's wrong, but when he says what he thinks I find him vague and hard to pin down.
The problem of Christian ethics, according to Bonhoeffer, is not to do good in the abstract (because that does not exist and even if it did it would be sinful for human beings to presume to know it) but to concretely obey the will of God. The most interesting idea here is that people should not try to be objective about their choices or to act guiltlessly, but to embrace one's responsibility and guilt.
ExhortationIn recent weeks, I have become enthralled by the life and writings of Dietrich Bonhoeffer--by his example that he lived out and by the wisdom shared through his writings.Having recently read Cost of Discipleship, which had a profound effect in giving me a greater hunger for holy living in Christ, I came into the readings of Ethics with the same expectation.to my disappointment, I found that the two works are of two distinctly different genres; while The Cost of Discipleship is written for more of a practical application, Ethics is more of a philosophical treatise on a variety of ethical subjects with the believer will encounter.
Ethics feeds that mind, but falls somewhat short of effectively transforming the heart.
In fact, some of his more practical advice is certainly worth taking: “the first task given to those who belong to the church of God is not to be something for themselves, for example, by creating a religious organization or leading a pious life, but to be witnesses of Jesus Christ to the world.” (p 64) Despite others’ misuse of their faith, whether sincere or cynical, given Bonhoeffer’s own personal piety and sanctity (a man who ultimately died at the gallows in Nazi detention for his principled resistance), I have no doubt about a faith-focused approach to life being a useful guide for Bonhoeffer personally.
Bonhoeffer's papers, retrieved by his friend Eberhard Bethge after his execution, contained years' worth of notebooks and several loose outlines for this work.
Bethge and subsequent "compilers" did their best to bring order to this inchoate mass and, given the nature of their task, succeeded remarkably well.Please note that I use the word "compilers" rather than "editors." Bethge and his successors have chosen not to "edit" Bonhoeffer but rather to provide the whole of his leavings on this subject in the book.
It badly needs a sympathetic but stern editor to pare down Bonhoeffer's excesses, primarily the convoluted over-writing which all German theologians seem prone to.
Thus, many parts of this book have missing or incomplete sections.This is extremely heavy reading loaded to the brim with weighty theological and philosophical considerations with one absolute centre guiding the reflection, i.e. the conviction that in Jesus Christ, God and the world is reconciled and therefore the elimination of the secular-sacred divide.
Now, compared to most Evangelical prattling on this topic, Bonhoeffer exercises extreme subtlety and sophistication in negotiating the sacred-secular pole without falling into the error of simply baptising or legitimising any world endeavour or allowing any worldly occupation to break free from it's reconciliation and subjection to Jesus Christ.
This centrality of Jesus in the understanding of ethics brought much clarity to the issue.
As Jesus is the creator and sustainer of all, all ethics considerations needs to be made in light of that reality.Bonhoeffer identifies the four main institutions of creation: family, church, labor (work) and government and goes into detail on how we should understand the role of each of these areas.
A proper understanding of each of these institutions and their relationship with God will lead to a proper ethic.While I recommend this book, be aware of some of the difficulties in reading it.
The two themes that really stuck out to me had these (though the second point might have come before the first point): First, Christ did a complete redemptive work.
American Evangelicals like to believe that anything secular is automatically backseat, second-best to the religious.
Secondly, as profound as the first, a lot of Christians continue to commit the sin of Adam and Eve, eating from the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil.
Bonhoeffer makes the assertion that, for the Christian, there is no "good" or "bad," only the will of God. We, as the redeemed, do not have the luxury to choose what is good or bad, that judgement is for God alone.
"When evil becomes powerful in the world, it infects the Christian, too, with the poison of radicalism.
It is Christ’s gift to the Christian that he should be reconciled with the world as it is, but now this reconciliation is accounted a betrayal and denial of Christ.
In the place of the love that believes all, bears all and hopes all, in the place of the love which loves the world in its very wickedness with the love of God, there is now the pharisaical denial of love to evil, and the restriction of love to the closed circle of the devout.
This was my first Bonhoeffer book to read.
I found his writings to be much like those of Kierkegaard, emphasizing the alienation of humanity and the radical transformation that Christianity calls for.
When reading Ethics, I found myself longing to be re-united with God, with humans, with my environment, with myself-- to be rid of the disappointing and discouraging sense of "otherness" that lies at the basis of all our relationships.This book would have been a lot better if Bonhoeffer had finished and edited it himself.
It definitely still feels like a collection of notes that would eventually compromise a finished work.
This was Dietrich Bonhoeffer's last book, largely written while he was in prison and not completed.It is without doubt one of the most significant books of Christian theology of the 20th Century.
The sentences that I understood I liked a lot.But what is one to make of a sentence such as this?
(from Page 133):"There is, therefore, no penultimate in itself; as though a thing could justify itself in itself as being a thing before the last thing; a thing becomes penultimate only through the ultimate, that is to say, at the moment when it has already lost its own validity."
This is an amazing book that changed my thinking in a number of areas.
For one, Bonhoeffer talks about how the study of "ethics" is a symptom of humanity's fall into sin.
That is, the fact that we can judge what is right and wrong is a result of the fact that Adam and Eve disobeyed God and "knew evil." We have fallen away from God, fallen away from the "origin," as Bonhoeffer states.
Bonhoeffer also discusses the concept of "taking sin upon yourself," just as Christ took our sin upon himself.
This book covers a lot of important ground, and will expand your way of thinking about sin and grace.
Just started this book, the second time I have read Bonhoeffer, and he is way too smart for me, but thinking about what Shannon said about "covering" today, I thought you all might like this quote...(he is referring to the origin of separation from God) Instead of seeing God, man sees himself.
Man perceives himself in his disunion with God and with men.
He perceives that he is naked.
Lacking the protection, the covering, which God and his fellowman afforded him, he finds himself laid bare.
Hences there is shame.
Shame is man's ineffaceable recollection of his estrangement from the origin (God).
This is a great classic.
Bonhoeffer's writing is deep and insightful.
"Only he who knows God knows what love is; it is not the other way round; it is not that we first of all by nature know what love is and therefore know also what God is.
No one knows God unless God reveals Himself to him.
And so no one knows what love is except in the self-revelation of God. Love, then, is the revelation of God. And the revelation of God is Jesus Christ." (Page 53)

the first half of the book is brilliant--extends and goes way beyond 'discipleship'--it's cool to see someone get a great idea, but then to see him move forward from it.then got bogged down with weird lutheran things i don't understand and very specific delineation of the role of the church, gov't, family culture (which appears like it would be fascinating but it kind of wasn't to me.) ended with a neat look at "what is truth", and addresses the good old "is it a lie to tell the nazis you aren't hiding someone in your basement (when you are)."
I finally finished this book.
Man-o-man was it a difficult read.
So much of the book was way over my head and I trudged through just so that I could say I finished it.
There were some absolutely brilliant parts that I thought very interesting and Bonhoeffer provided a fresh perspective for me in some areas, such as the original sin and telling the truth.
When he turned to undefined Latin references, I was lost.
The book is an unfinished work and the footnotes helped fill in some gaps there.
If you choose to read this, be prepared, this book isn't for whimps.
This is really not a book to love or hate.
Instead, it is a book to think about and reread.
More than once, I had to go back to fully comprehend what he was saying.
There are sections that I have marked to read again, because the truth of Bonhoeffer's writing still rings today.
He had a great deal of insight into people and their actions.
All authors are influenced by the times they live in, it is obvious in this book that Bonhoeffer was not in favor of the Nazis and their programs.
Read this and think.
Just finished the first chapter. Can't wait to read the rest of it! My mind is being stretched and challenged to critique Bonhoeffer's understanding of the Gospel and of Jesus Christ, which is at the heart of his ethics and worldview. So far, I only hear in him the voice of a true prophet, who will radically reorient me (and many others) back to the true and living God. Hence, the need to discern carefully and cautiously. //Amazing book, now if only we could translate it for our time.
This book is Bonhoeffer's effort to create a comprehensive practical theology for the modern world. It shows him wrestling with many questions (particularly regarding politics and the relationship of the Christian to the state) that would occupy him in later life under the Nazis. His insights on human relationships (particularly marriage, family, and child-bearing) seem very contemporary, and have a lot to offer the 21st century Christian.
