https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30008702-nutshell
This may seem like a youngish choice, as narrators go, but McEwan's prepartum protagonist is a joy of a companion – witty, eloquent, someone who enjoys a nice glass or two of Sancerre ‘decanted through a healthy placenta’ and who has plenty of time and material for contemplative flights of fancy: ‘my thoughts as well as my head,’ he notes, ‘are fully engaged.’I'm immersed in abstractions, and only the proliferating relations between them create the illusion of a known world.
I've been an Ian McEwan fan from way back...but this little slim book blows my mind.
I don't study Shakespeare- (my daughter did her entire childhood) -- but the opening quote by Hamlet at the start of Ian's book has a 'much more' profound meaning to me now - since reading this exceptional brilliant novel.
His ( for lack of a better way of doing this - I'll just refer to the fetus as 'He')...
mother, Trudy, may drift off during a lecture - or listen random to podcasts, but not he.
Even through his mother's bones he can encounter a bad dream in guise of a formal lecture.
He’s an amazing storyteller.This dark and edgy story told by a soon-to-be-born fetus is so clever and bizarre, I just dove right in, trusting that McEwan would give me a trip to remember, and that he did.
Sometimes I reread because I just wanted to--every sentence is jazz, so I played the record a couple of times, loving the tone and the rhythm.
I now have to read all of his books, end of story.Well .
Or what if the poor abandoned baby spider needs to tell her traumatic story?
So just maybe it’s time for a spider narrator.
A book that is narrated by an eight month old fetus.
Was it that I had a hard time envisioning a fetus using this level of thought and speech?
Not sure, though I did find myself occasionally shaking my head at the thought especially since I am not a fantasy lover, maybe I had a hard time going there?.
I do admire the originality of the author's vision though.
Still I was glad of the experience of reading this very original story and ingesting this author's amazing prose.ARC from Netgalley.
https://www.penguin.co.uk/articles/in...Update: I found an interview of the author regarding the novel, how he got the idea to write it and where it stands in relation to his other works.
Although it has as main plot a villainous plan, the joy of reading this novel come from the witty, contemplative, funny reflections of the in utero narrator.
Fueled by the radio podcasts played by his mother, the narrator launches himself in various meditations on the world affairs, religious extremism, climate change, armed conflicts and other current subjects.
I'll be the son of Claude."Ian McEwan is in this novel at the highest level of his world play.
It is every bit as insufferable as that sounds.Ian McEwan is one of those writers who, having been crowned an author of literature, thinks he can write any piece of cracked-out nonsense and know it will be treated as a serious work.
Night Shyamalan of authors.McEwan's main conceit -- the narrating from the womb thing -- is pretty stupid, but not entirely unworkable.
Humor!In contrast, here's the opening paragraph to Nutshell:So here I am, upside down in a woman.
Unaware that her baby is listening and is witness to all she does, Trudy concocts a sinister scheme with a mysterious cohort, a deceitful plan of betrayal and, possibly, murder.
The limitations of writing an entire narrative from the viewpoint of a baby in the womb is not without its challenges, but the author succeeds in overcoming the hurdles that coincide with his use of such an unusual narrator.
This is somewhat easy to forgive, because the writing is spectacular, but it's nonetheless noticeable that a baby who admits to having no understanding of what colors look like could so accurately describe furniture, or the ocean, or any number of other items he's never seen.
Hamlet in Utero Oh God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself king of infinite space—were it not that I have bad dreams. I could check online, I suppose, but I suspect there is a story here. Is it a coincidence that, within months of the launch of the Hogarth Shakespeare series, in which famous authors (so far Jeanette Winterson, Howard Jacobson, Anne Tyler, and Margaret Atwood) are asked to retell Shakespeare plays in their own words, Ian McEwan (surely the equal of any of them) sho
Is it a coincidence that, within months of the launch of the Hogarth Shakespeare series, in which famous authors (so far Jeanette Winterson, Howard Jacobson, Anne Tyler, and Margaret Atwood) are asked to retell Shakespeare plays in their own words, Ian McEwan (surely the equal of any of them) should come out with his own version of Hamlet, but not part of the series?
In short, an intellectual masterpiece.But as a retelling of the Hamlet story, it strays farther from the canon than even the liberal approach of the other commissions; perhaps that is the point, that he demanded this freedom?
We know the plot (although not the outcome) from the blurbs and the first chapter.
What gives the book its unique perspective is who is telling the story: the fetus of the pregnant woman.
“I wear my mother like a tight-fitting cap.” We learn the house is a dump: “The cleaning lady left in sadness long before my time.” We know how the husband keeps trying to prolong his visits: “His visits don’t end, they fade.” When she makes love with her lover: “This turbulence would shake the wings off a Boeing.” On her pregnancy: “Her bare, pink arms and legs, her purple-painted toenails, her full, unarguable beauty are on intimidating display.
The narrator is a middle-aged brain trapped inside an unborn baby, itself trapped inside a novel, th
She and her lover have a plan and its from the point of view of her 9 month old foetus that we lean what exactly is at foot.I loved the opening line of the Novel "  So Here I Am, upside down in a woman.
Having said that McEwan has some great lines in this book.
His prose is impeccable and at 198 pages this reads like a short story but it just was a tad too gimmicky for my liking.My favourite novels by this author are On Chesil Beach and The Children Act
Who would have thought I would read and enjoy his recent novel so much.I liked the concept of Nutshell, far-fetched as it was it pretty well worked for me.
And though the novel was rather on the eccentric side and our hero strangely verbose for an unborn child, (view spoiler)[ months listening to the radio via mother’s womb did its job, I assume  (hide spoiler)], I didn’t mind it at all.
Hamlet in utero: daring idea resonates with Bardly brilliance We all know the basic concept of Hamlet, even if it's been years since we read it in university, or watched Kenneth Branagh's soliloquies (or Mel Gibson, ergh). He's the guy who's fretting constantly, whose fatal flaw is inaction. He can wax poetic like none other, but that's about all he does, bless him.Well, Ian McEwan had the fantastical idea to resurrect dear Hamlet, in the form of a 3rd trimester foetus. Said foetus (who articul
We all know the basic concept of Hamlet, even if it's been years since we read it in university, or watched Kenneth Branagh's soliloquies (or Mel Gibson, ergh).
He can wax poetic like none other, but that's about all he does, bless him.Well, Ian McEwan had the fantastical idea to resurrect dear Hamlet, in the form of a 3rd trimester foetus.
It was also funny as hell - I've never before read a scene depicting the experience of a foetus enduring sex between his mother and her lover.
I don't know what rock I've been living under for my entire life, but somehow I've managed to get this far without reading McEwan.
I know these words, but how he combines them is so pure, so organic, so perfect and true - I always feel as though I am experiencing the written word for the first time when I read him.
"Baby," who is very observant and ruminates upon life with the philosophical expanse of Socrates, has overheard his mother and her lover plot to kill his father.
I read it twice and know I will pick it up again and again just for the heady pleasure of his immaculate phrasing.
Not only are we asked to believe that he picked up his wordsmithing skills while listening – via his mother – to radio 4; we are also meant to buy all the political digressions the foetus makes in the middle of worries about the conspiracy between Trudy and Claude to murder his father - the novel’s ‘story’.
(Tut tut, says the Dane)Much more can be said and asked about this unusual novel: Is the foetus merely a (too) clever device, acting as McEwan’s mouthpiece?
This delightful novel had the parallels to Shakespeare’s Hamlet that others have pointed to, but it was also a crime novel par excellence, with the plot, murder, defense, and getaway offered up with sly asides to those of us who think it might be easy to pull off such a thing when one is two weeks shy of a full term.But more, McEwan throws in cameos on the state of the world delivered on TV news shows, radio announcements, or earphones-delivered political podcasts and has our not-yet-born listen to discourse on the torments to come.
Following the build-up to the murder while floating in his amniotic sac, our clever fetus realizes he needs to seize his opportunity to avenge his father’s death.We are treated, in the course of this novel, to writing advice: ‘If it doesn’t come at once, it shouldn’t come.
[Originally appeared here (with edits): http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/li...]  Pessimism is too easy, even delicious, the badge and plume of intellectuals everywhere. It absolves the thinking classes of solutions.  This wonderfully sapient insight springs somewhere in the middle of this book and almost gives away the rationale behind McEwan’s choice of protagonist - a fetus.Yes, this 200-odd pages of scheming a murder is seen through the eyes of a fetus from the womb of his mother, a party t
This wonderfully sapient insight springs somewhere in the middle of this book and almost gives away the rationale behind McEwan’s choice of protagonist - a fetus.Yes, this 200-odd pages of scheming a murder is seen through the eyes of a fetus from the womb of his mother, a party to the hatching game.
While many authors would have dispatched the proposition of appointing a fetus as a narrator to dustbin without much of a thought, McEwan stays true to this absolutely refreshing point of view with a vengeance.
It needs to be plausible if we accept certain premises, like when we read a story narrated by someone who’s died.
But to carry on with the descriptive metaphor of himself as a ‘slate’ in reference to a schoolroom or a cottage roof is outside the premise I’ve accepted.
I’ve accepted this tiny being can relate a story to me (ridiculous, but, you know, I agreed), but I can’t accept that on the one hand he tells me (many times) that he can’t see or smell, and on the other hand can create metaphors and later describe how he imagines a young woman visitor one evening:
My last experience of reading McEwan was On Chesil Beach which I found rather dreary and depressing and deterred me from reading his subsequent novels.
Its central conceit - transplanting part of the story of Hamlet to modern Britain and making the narrator an unborn baby is really just a twist on the traditional omniscient narrator and McEwan clearly had fun deciding what the narrator should be allowed to know, but he never addresses why he has an innate knowledge of language or such a wide range of allusion.
All forgiveable - this is an entertaining exercise and a short book that never outstays its welcome.
Nutshell: A Novel I think it would be inappropriate to use the word I am thinking of to describe this novel, because you know, polite company and all. Let's just say that Ian McEwan apparently set out to mess with our minds when he wrote this. This was the most wicked, mind-bending, highly original, maddening brilliant story! So I guess I am saying I love it. Will come back with some thoughts :)
I knew him, McEwan: a fellowof infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hathborne me in his sac a thousand times; and now, howabhorred in my imagination it is!Seriously, Hamlet + 3rd Trimester + Conspiracy + Poetry = funky magic.
According to Christopher Booker*, "there are only seven basic plots in the whole world -- plots that are recycled again and again in novels, movies, plays and operas." Ian McEwan sucks the Hamlet story right up into the Queen of Denmark's uterus.
Imagine Hamlet soliloquizing inside his mother as his uncle Claude bangs his cock against his mum's thin uterine wall.
Una mamma non particolarmente amorevole: si chiama Trudy, quella di Amleto Gertrude.E il di lei amante è ovviamente lo zio, cioè il fratello del padre, che si chiama Claude, invece di Claudius.Cupidigia, tradimento, assassinio, vendetta, come nella celebre tragedia.Londra, invece della Danimarca.
Un nascituro, un feto non è forse quintessenza d’innocenza e purezza?Direi di no: questo futuro bimbo vede e sente e commenta come un essere (umano) navigato, qua e là anche un po’ sapientino.Altro aspetto che differenzia il breve romanzo di McEwan dalla tragedia di Shakespeare è che là il delitto è già compiuto, Amleto viene chiamato dal fantasma del padre a vendicarne l’omicidio, qui invece deve ancora essere consumato, è in preparazione.
“Nutshell,” Ian McEwan’s preposterously weird little novel, is more brilliant than it has any right to be.
The plot sounds like something sprung from a drunken round of literary Mad Libs: a crime of passion based on Shakespeare’s “Hamlet,” narrated by a fetus.That it should come to this!If you can get beyond that icky premise, you’ll discover a novel that sounds like a lark but offers a story that’s surprisingly suspenseful, dazzlingly clever and gravely profound.
. .To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post:https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...And to see The Totally Hip Video Book Review, click here:https://www.washingtonpost.com/video/...
In the time it took me to write this review, Ian McEwan has written at least one more novel.
Or rather, foetus, since we're in Britain now, Toto) who has amassed a wealth of knowledge about wine, a firm grasp on history, and a keen awareness of current events all by listening to the world beyond the womb, mostly to the podcasts that carry his mother through nights of insomnia.Baby is also a possible Witness for the Prosecution, after being in utero privy to the murder plot simmering away between his mother and her lover, who also happens to be the brother of Baby's father.
A wildly snobbish neonatal persona, Fetus Cairncross, introduces himself to the world in no uncertain terms: "So here I am, upside down in a woman. Arms patiently crossed, waiting, waiting and wondering who I’m in, what I’m in for. My eyes close nostalgically when I remember how I once drifted in my translucent body bag, floated dreamily in the bubble of my thoughts through my private ocean in slow-motion somersaults, colliding gently against the transparent bounds of my confinement, the confidi
) (hide spoiler)]Fetus Cairncross is facing the same fate as dearly beloved Hamlet: his mother and Claude the fraud, the Dull-brained yokel her lover in a hot relationship, plotting the murder of his father to take possession of his wealth.
In the spirit of Hamlet who cannot stop thinking, our sophisticated eloquent Fetus Cairncross follows the same pattern of thought as Hamlet,that almost drives him to insanity and mayhem.
Ian McEwan was not one of the invitees of the Hogarth project, but independently did a great job.SOME Festival tidbits YOU CAN SKIP(view spoiler)[2016 was the year in which the death of Shakespeare, four hundred years ago have been commemorated all over the world.
Το τελείωσα μέσα σε μια μέρα. Not my cup of tea. Ευρηματικό το κόνσεπτ δε μπορώ να πω αλλά αδιάφορα εκτελεσμένο για τα γούστα μου. Ότι είχε ας πούμε το αγέννητο πολιτικό σχόλιο και αντίληψη για την ζωή, για τη θρησκεία, για την κοινωνία πριν καν βγει από το αβγό… κυριολεκτικά. Αν υποψιαστώ ότι το έκαιγα έτσι στην κοιλιά της μάνας μου και βγήκα έτσι υπεραναλυτική θα το μαδήσω.
This one has been listening to podcasts through his mother's earbuds and already knows a great deal about world events, politics, environmental concerns, etc.
And he also knows his mother and his uncle are plotting to kill his father, a la the story of Hamlet.
In fact, the book begins with a quote from Hamlet from which apparently the title springs: "Oh God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space--were it not that I have bad dreams."Suspend your disbelief and give this latest book by Ian McEwan a try.
Within the first few pages, I was captivated and utterly convinced by the voice of this contemporary, in utero Hamlet.
Provided you suspend disbelief a bit to accept he can see/hear/surmise everything that happens – the most tedious passages are those where McEwan tries to give more precise justification for his narrator’s observations – the plot really works.
His captive state pairs perfectly with Hamlet’s existential despair, but also makes him (and us as readers) part of the conspiracy: even as he wants justice for his father, he has to hope his mother and uncle will get away with their crime; his whole future depends on it.Favorite lines:“I have it in mind to reach for my oily cord, as one might a velvet rope in a well-staffed country house, and pull sharply for service.
Attraverso un'astrazione che mette in parallelo l'inazione di un personaggio tragico come Amleto con quella forzata di un feto, incapace di agire perché costretto in uno spazio limitante, il guscio, appunto, di una madre che ancora non lo ama e sembra quasi dimentica della vita che porta in sé.
La storia ripropone la stessa dinamica della già citata tragedia del grande bardo: un tradimento innominabile tra madre e zio, il desiderio di vendicare il padre, il dilemma su come agire.
Uno squisito esercizio di stile (reso possibile solo dalla grazia della scrittura di McEwan) che riesce anche a essere ironico, spassoso, a dire il vero.
In Nutshell, a sort of modern take on 'Hamlet', a son becomes aware that his mother Trudy and her lover Claude are planning to murder his father John - who happens to be Claude's brother.
The twist in Ian McEwan's novel is that the son, and narrator of the book, is a late term fetus.....in utero.
Naturally, this doesn't sit right with the unborn infant.Trudy and Claude think John - a rather dreamy poet - is unaware of their liasion.
The infant is also savvy about sex, and privy to lots of hot coupling between Trudy and Claude.
