https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/980501.A_Fly_Went_By
So what makes this a good kid's book?
I read a lot of kid's books these days.
That might be perfect for holding the attention span of a 1 year old, but if you want your kids to be able to concentrate for longer than the span of a superbowl commercial, you might want to consider reading them longer books.
Read a 16 page book to a kid 10 times.
Or read a 50 page book twice.
There is a lot of good word and letter repetition.
For kids that are learning to read, this is key.
Once they learn to read the word "They" they'll get plenty of chance to practice it.
Lovely little book with lots for children to think about!
From 1958. Sweet simple pictures with a funny comedy of errors that this little boy unravels. The kids enjoyed this one too. I'm so glad they like these classic books along with the new ones. It's fun to see all these stories again and see them passed down one more generation. Still a pleasing bedtime story.
This rhyming story is about a fly who goes on a long adventure.
On his adventure he is followed by many different characters.
One day a boy asks the fly where he is off to and the chase begins.
Many different animals begin to be involved with the chase.
This book is fun because it is a silly story and children will be able to practice their use of rhyme and figurative language while reading this story book.
This book did not capture my attention as much as other rhyming books I have read.
This book was a favorite of mine when I was a kid.
I remember looking for it on Amazon.com at one point, but I believe it was out of print.
I was superpsyched to get it for Charlotte, even though it's kind of old fashioned and violent compared to what early readers get these days.
When Charlotte was tiny, I could read it to her and she liked the rhythm.
Nowadays she doesn't want me to read it to her - she'd rather look through it by herself and list all the animals on the pages.
One of my very favorite books when I was an early reader. One of the rare ones that I didn’t find at all boring. I enjoyed having it read to me as well.
This is a fun story that builds upon itself and leads to a funny conclusion. It's a good book for beginning readers, with lots of simple words and a repetitive narrative, but I will caution that it is pretty long. Our youngest did a great job reading it, but she got tired about halfway through, so I took over. It's a fun book to read aloud.
This is a classic story of cause and effect. A little boy is relaxing by the lakeside, but all of a sudden a fly went by. The fly was chasing an animal that was chasing another animal, and so on. There is a lot of rhyming and repetition in this story. Very fun story.
This is one of my daughter's favorites. We get it from the library time and again!
Gregg, you got ur story from this! OMG!
-A book about animals being chased by other animals of larger size-A good rhyming book
This book was one of my favorites as a child and was passed down to me by my father.
The book follows a boy who encounters a fly who is going by in a rush.
I would use this book in my classroom to show series of events.
The students would have to recall what came first, second, and so on.
I would use this book with student of the first or second grade because it is a bit of a long book and they would have the ability to sit through the book and the lesson.
Genre: Modern FantasyGrade: Early Primary / PrimaryThis was one of my favorite books growing up! Every time I went to the library I would renew it, bring it home, and read it over and over again. The story is full of chasing, mystery, and a lot of rhyming and sequencing. This is such a fun book that gets kids excited about reading. This is the book I remember getting me excited to read. It is a simple and easy story, so that makes it great to build confidence in children. I recommend this book!
I wasn't sure about this book when my 4 year old picked it at the library. But it was actually a fun book! I loved the repetitive rhyming and it made me run out of breath on some pages. But it was so much fun to predict what each animal/person was running from and what started it all!It was a really sweet ending. My daughter and I both enjoyed this book and I would be happy to re-read this book with her if she picks it up again.
If you haven't heard of this book, I feel incredibly sorry for you. If you've seen this book but never picked it up and read it, ... I don't know what to say. That was a very lame decision. I'll try to forgive you. Now that you know better, please be sure to add this to your kid's reading list. This week. Pictures are oh so fun too!An absolute favorite from my childhood. (Happy, nostalgic sigh)Reading Level: 1st - 2nd grades
Someone must have read this to me at some point during my childhood, but I honestly don't remember it. This book features a merry chase starting with the world's cutest fly.I honestly had no idea how it was all going to end!
A Fly Went By is about a young boy whose peaceful daydream is interrupted by a pesky fly who is fleeing from a frog. The boy tells the frog that he mustn't chase the fly because the fly then zooms by him. The frog responded by saying he was only fleeing from a cat. Each animal claims that its running from something else. When the last animal is a man, he claims he is running from a Monster! This helps child expand there minds to myths/fairytales characters. I love this book.
I love the book, the cute illustrations & the adorable boy ^_^ Love how everything was rhyming perfectly & the suspense was going smoothly :) Have a look & enjoy this book. Oh... Did it rhyme too? ;)You see..I am so much influenced by Dr. Seuss by now. He & his rhyming books are superb! :)https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RYykQ...
This predictive/repetitive rhyming book is great for early readers, or those who are on the verge of reading. The rhyme scheme builds literacy skills, but it is likely too long for a young toddler. If I were cataloging this book, I would catalog it as an early reader rather than an easy/picture book.
Better for older children. My daughter is 3 and has a good vocabulary for her age, but she doesnt know words like gun and kill and I'm not ready to explain them to her so I sort of started skimming when I saw where it was going. But we own a copy of this so I can try reading it to her again when she is older.
Read at Storytime April 4th.Theme: Classics that every kid should readI love how the story keeps building while you read. There were several mouths hanging open in suspense of what was causing the animals to run. Again, this was one of those books that I remember sitting in my grandma's lap while she read it to me. It was one of the first readers that I read on my own.
I've read this book a thousand times, and each time, I hate it more. But my four year old has been forcing me to read it regularly for pretty much three years now... so unless he's figured out an intellectual way to punish me quite early, I'd say its succeeding in its mission.
My children and I really enjoyed this book. Each bug/animal is being chased by another and my children enjoyed guessing what was chasing each one. It's a beginner book so it was perfect for my new reader it allowed her to practice some sight words.
Loved this book for my beginning reader. Lots of repetitive, predictable text with some challenging words. The story is great though and each page left her with a cliff hanger that made her want to turn the page and read more!
Amusing vintage easy reader with circuitous verse and lots of good repetition. It may seem long, but it is intended to develop reading and it wraps up nicely.
Genre: Fiction/poetryUnique feature: a Cute story in fun and artful rhyme.Grades: pre k-3
Good book.
Such a cute story, very endearing. My little ones wanted this read over and over again until they finally outgrew it.
Entertaining yarn along the likes of there was an old lady who swallowed a fly - building on itself to an absurd conclusion. Not a lot of sense but were you expecting any?
A rhyming story with a focus on perceived and unknown fears, which until one finds out what is the true source will continue unless rooted out.
