https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/454550.Spain_in_Our_Hearts
Written on the front lines of the Spanish war, amazing, I can't really write anywhere. The words are very powerful and one can see the horrific impression of war on the fighters and the country. The mothers waiting for sons and husbands, brothers who never return, a country that may never heal. "And one morning all was aflameand one morning the firescame out of the earthdevouring people,and from then on fire, gunpowder from then on,and from then on blood."
Qué puedo decir de esta colección de poemas, si aún tengo el corazón en un puño y los ojos llenos de lágrimas...
Vigoroso!
اسپانیا در قلب ما را فرامرز سلیمانی و احمد کریمی حکاک به فارسی زیبایی برگردانده اند / 1363
One of Neruda's lesser works, a conceptual book of poems based on the Spanish civil war. Though I share his political convictions, I found myself powering through this volume without actually taking my pleasure in it, which is completely atypical of my experience with the author so far.
3 1/2 stars
Neruda's collection separates neatly into two categories: Praise for the Spain that was, and the people who came to defend Spain from the Nationalist uprising, condemnation for the right-wing rebels, and praise for the dead; condemnation for the the future that quickly is taking place.
The poems are undated in the collection, though we know that they were written in 1936-1937, and from their order one senses a chronological occurrence of events.The former category of poems are difficult to read in light of history, because no matter what praise Neruda heaps on the soldiers of the International Brigades, we the present reader know that they were defeated.
Maldición Patria surcada, juro que en tus cenizas  nacerás como flor de agua perpetua,  juro que de tu boca de sed saldrán al aire  los pétalos del pan, la derramada  espiga inaugurada.
Malditos sean,  malditos, malditos los que con hacha y serpiente  llegaron a tu arena terrenal, malditos los  que esperaron este día para abrir la puerta  de la mansión al moro y al bandido:  ¿Qué habéis logrado?
Malditos los que un día  no miraron, malditos ciegos malditos,  los que no adelantaron a la solemne patria  el pan sino las lágrimas, malditos  uniformes manchados y sotanas  de agrios, hediondos perros de cueva y sepultura.
This book of poetry might not be of interest to someone who isn't interested in (or at least knowledgable about) the Spanish Civil War. It's great stuff, but it's about his pain on seeing Spain blown apart (by "traitors and Moors") in the 1930s.
I was actually looking for some Lorca, but Neruda was his good friend, and this was a good second option.P.S., come on Book People, first you didn't have Henry Miller's "Sexus," then you only had "A Coney Island of the Mind" (three copies!) when I wanted "A Far Rockaway of the Heart" and then only one Lorca collection.
At least you had this Neruda and "Hollywood" by Charles Bukowski, though.
Der erste Gedichtband, den ich von Neruda las. Und ich bin noch etwas hin- und hergerissen. Seine Gedichte malen einen grauenhaften Krieg, sprachlich ohne Frage wertvoll und ebenso ungewöhnlich für Poesie, derart grausam zu sein. Nun stellte sich mir die Frage, ob das Werk unbedingt derart politisch sein musste...wahrscheinlich schon, doch trotzdem war diese übermäßige Politisierung nicht ganz mein Fall.Dankbar war ich über das Nachwort von Carlos Rincón, das mir dank zusätzlicher Informationen sowohl über Neruda als auch über den Spanischen Bürgerkrieg dabei half, die Gedichte besser zu verstehen.
Sometimes confusing with all the factions at play in this Spanish War I knew little about, but overall it was a great read; I got to know some of the major players, especially for the Republican side, and learned how this war previewed WWII and how the US shut its eyes when Texaco provided Franco's forces with essential fuel but would not let others supply arms or other supplies to the Republican side. Now I'm looking forward to re-reading Hemingway's book on this war and other books related to it, to get different perspectives.
Without sufficient background knowledge of Neruda and his part in the Spanish Civil War, an everyday reader might not fully grasp the meaning behind this collection of poems. However, Neruda has a way with words that truly brings the vision of a horrid, cruel war to mind. The translation is fairly accurate as well.
I have enjoyed other Neruda books- love poems. But this one is definitely on another level. It is a very moving set of poems for Spain during its civil war. I like the English-Spanish side by side of this edition. The story of the printing of the book (by soldiers on handmade paper near the front) and carrying it with them as they moved is remarkable. Beautiful language, of course.
Did my IOP on the poems in this book, and how they corresponded to the Spanish Civil War. I thought how Neruda wrote about the events in the war was fascinating and how the Spanish civil war ties into WWII is just very interesting and I really enjoyed this poetry collection and the historical knowledge that I acquired along with it.
This was an absolutely beautiful book of poetry. It is centred around Neruda's experiences with the Spanish civil war; I don't know enough about that conflict to analyze it too deeply, but this will definitely not be the last Neruda that I read.
"but from each childborn a gun with eyesbut from each crimeare born bullets thatone day seek out in youwhere the heart lies"Very beautifully angry!
These poems grew on me as I discussed them with others. Hugely powerful metaphors and imagery--made my skin crawl at points. Really captures the nature of war. This is a good translation.
Poesía a la guerra civil española.
My favorites: "SPAIN POOR THROUGH THE FAULT OF THE RICH” and "ALMERÍA"
