https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153193.Undead_and_Unemployed
Being a soulless denizen of the undead was really hard sometimes... Betsy, now the queen of the vampires, is struggling to find her way in the vampire world. Well, not really. She actually just wants to live her unlife in the same way, with no changes, except of course the drinking blood and being nocturnal thing. Obviously, becoming a vampire meant a few changes, but it didn't change her personality. She's still completely superficial and vain. She just happens to be a soulless undead killing
She just happens to be a soulless undead killing machine who is superficial and vain.She is also unemployed, but being the amazingly lucky girl that she is, she manages to land her absolute dream job:
Yeah, for some reason, the other vampires, who considered her their queen, weren't real impressed with her new shoe-selling gig.
We all know that shoe salesmen are the celebrities of society.So regal..Although Betsy should be living the dream with her new job, she unfortunately has to keep doing this Queen deal - which means dealing with the fact that there is a group of vampire hunters out there with pointy sticks.
"Being a soulless denizen of the undead was really hard sometimes."  I’m sad to say that the second book of the Undead series fell short of my expectations.The first third of the book is pretty boring: Betsy has financial and termite problems, so she needs a job, and a new place to live.Then a group of vampire hunters appears, killing vampires all over the city. Betsy is enlightened that as a queen she has certain responsibilities.  “We're getting reports of quite a few staked vampires.”“So?”S
I’m sad to say that the second book of the Undead series fell short of my expectations.The first third of the book is pretty boring: Betsy has financial and termite problems, so she needs a job, and a new place to live.Then a group of vampire hunters appears, killing vampires all over the city.
I don’t mind that Betsy escapes almost miraculously, thanks to being a supervamp, but the whole scene, especially the revenge, is performed poorly.All in allDespite the predictable plot turns, and the uninteresting but at least quickly disappearing new characters, Undead and Unemployed still provides enough laugh-out-loud situations and sparkling dialogues to have a good time with it.
(Hey, designer shoes don't grow on trees, you know.) On top of needing to find - and then keep - employment, she also has the small problem of figuring out all the recent vampire murders.Even though many people call this series a romance series, I just can't see the romance.
(As Betsy says, "Nothing good can come of having sex with Eric Sinclair.")After reading the first book I was annoyed with Betsy but intrigued by the story.
Now, after having read the second book, Betsy is growing on me.
Fun. I mean, predictable, but still fun. A guilty pleasure, if you will. I still have the omnibus of the first four books that my friend lent me, but I'm having a great time with this series so far...I wonder if she has the rest of the books... :)
To force the person you "love" to quite the job they love is ridiculous, especially in the way that he tried.Really the only part of the novel I semi-liked was Betsy.
If I say I don't like a guy because he's a jerk, I expect my besties to back me up instead of saying how nice and hot he is all the time.Overall, I did not like this book, hence the low rating.
Even though I like romance novels, I feel like my standards have changed for them overall.
Queen Betsy has returned, this time with a job, and a few new skills in life!Finally I had a chance to buy Book #2 and Book #3, and just a few days ago they finally arrived!
She wants to have some money of her own to buy shoes, clothes, and other fun things.
Of course her best friend has all the money in the world, but, and I loved Betsy for it, she doesn't want to rely on that.
But really, I wanted her to at least try to like Sinclair.
:PAnd it is fun to see Betsy learn a bit more how to become a queen.

5 Stars: I enjoyed this book as much as the first, good reading if you like vampire romance.
It was a quick and mindless read for those times you want a light read.
My absolute favorite and will read again and again.
I strongly recommend!
There’s no pretense and romance was well balanced and done entirely correctly with properly distributed amounts of hints, behaviors and incredible, undeniable chemistry.
Predictability is at an all-time low.
With the exception of series based books that follow the same path but are just as good.
Overall, Favorite, must read again, recommend!!!
Betsy has not only become a vampire by accident she is also the Queen of the vampires.
She is content to stay in her termite infested apartment and ignore the crazy vampire world.
She really wants Betsy to embrace her vampire life and comes up with many schemes to bring both of her worlds together.
Since SInclair tricked Betsy into being Queen, she spends all her energy in dismissing him and ignoring the atraction between them.
We also have various vampires who serve differnt positions in the hierarchy of the vampire world.
As the title says, this is a story about an unemployed vampire. Vampire queen, to be exact...which unfortunately isn't a well payed job, so she needs to find a real one.Because, you know, she wants to adopt a 5 y/o ghost, and having a kid costs money. Even a ghost kid. The only one she can have, considering her king's "dead sperm" can't get her pregnant.And she wants a family so bad, especially now that her dad thinks it was impolite from her to get back to life after they organized the funeral
As the title says, this is a story about an unemployed vampire.
Vampire queen, to be exact...which unfortunately isn't a well payed job, so she needs to find a real one.Because, you know, she wants​ to adopt a 5 y/o ghost, and having a kid costs money.
Even a ghost kid.
The only one she can have, considering her king's "dead sperm" can't get her pregnant.And she wants a family so bad, especially​ now that her dad thinks it was impolite from her to get back to life after they organized the funeral and everything, and her stepmother is mad she didn't actually die because now she can't have her shoe collection.This is a random and bizzare book.
Betsy is still trying to come to terms with her new status as Vampire Queen and the complete change of lifestyle.
Of course Betsy doesn't really want to get involved but is dragged into helping by the delicious Eric Sinclair, who she loves hates to positive distraction!Betsy is as witty as ever and I enjoy her snarkasm so much.
She's such a sassy character and I love her interactions with those around her, her witty retorts just have me smiling the whole time I'm reading!
I especially enjoyed the scene where Betsy invited the vampire hunters to afternoon tea!Verdict:Undead and Unemployed is a quick but entertaining read.
After reading Undead and Unwed, I thought Sinclair was a hero with jerk tendencies.
Now after finishing the second book of the series I'm feeling like Sinclair is filtered through Betsy and he's not as much of a jerk as I first thought.
The author does a really good job broadcasting Jessica's personality along with Betsy's, but Sinclair just seems to get lost along the way.I'm still enjoying the series so far, and don't plan to drop it, but I'm not as enthralled by it as I was the first book.Completely unrelated side note…having a vampire named Eric in a series that’s not the Sookie Stackhose series is a little distracting.
Is it horrible of me that I’m picturing Alexander Skarsgård as Eric Sinclair?
More like 2.5 stars, but again the reading by Wu was excellent. The story was fun, but not even as filling as a Sookie Stackhouse story. Queen Betsy & all the rest of the characters are more caricatures than 'real' people. The world isn't very complex nor all that imaginative. So it was OK & I'm really only giving it 3 stars because Wu does such a great job. Still, I'm on to listen to the next one.
I like Queen Betsy in all her oblivious, scatterbrained, "fashionable" glory!The humor is great and I really need the pick me up right now!I like the tone and the way the story effortless spills out. I had a great time!Great fiction? No, but who are we trying to fool? I rarely read great fiction because it rarely gives me this kind of enjoyment! I love trashy stories with the occational great thrown in, and this was good trashy!
I like this series even more after listening to this book! It's truly very funny, well developed & likable characters tossed together with some intriguing mystery and occasional steaminess! Formula is fun indeed! :-)
3.5Better than the first in some ways.
I'm a little disappointed it was so obvious.
The suspicion thrown to other people was just an obvious a red herring.
I read a lot of straight mystery/suspense.
I was also just as annoyed with Betsy as her poor detective skills as I was about her ability to read John but not Eric's feelings.
Though to be honest, I think if Eric truly feels the way suggested, there isn't much basis for it.
All that said, I will read more of the series for now.
It's a light read that doesn't require many brain cells.
3.5 star
Betsy has access to the Book of the Dead which will inform her about her role in the life of vampires and what she can expect as their queen.
Yes, vampires are dying but Betsy should have the right to earn her own income as she sees fit and not be dependent upon Eric or Jessica for money.Speaking of Jessica, it's clear that her main job is to support Betsy's lifestyle.
Yes, it's racist but I still believe that Davidson adds these knock you over the head racist events because she really doesn't know how to write characters of colour.
Mary Janice Davidson's Queen Betsy (a.k.a the Undead) series is a delightfully subversive and hilarious bunch of stories starring the most fashionable supernatural since Buffy; The Vampire Slayer.
Even as she's doing her best to keep Minnesota's vampires from murdering the innocent, she refuses to actually rule them.
I like Mary Janice Davidson is not afraid to take chances with her storytelling as we begin with a police report of a cab driver about Betsy stopping a would-be murderous vampire.
Individuals looking for a tight plot or coherent narrative are going to be disappointed because the book's best joke is Betsy's refusal to become involved in a typical urban fantasy/paranormal romance mystery.
Undead and Unemployed is the second book in the Queen Betsy series.
Betsy Taylor (AKA Queen Elizabeth I, Empress of the Undead, Rightful Rule of the Vampires along with her Consort Eric) has decided that it is time to find a job.
(I must take a road trip and visit this mall before I'm unable to.)Betsy trying to put the whole Queen of the Vampires thing behind her.
Betsy's snarkiness comes through loud and clear throughout this book, including when "her" vampires are dying and nobody seems to know who is responsible.
I know that Betsy and Eric end up together.
But now I want to read Twilight by Stephanie Meyer now, and hopefully that will be much better.The main character is flawed but in an interesting, I can kind of relate to her way.
Best friends seemed kind of cliche in the "Let's add diversity" kind of way - a rich black girl and a gay Doctor guy.
And yet, I think I am going to go read #1, since it is apparently a series and this was #2, and I am interested in the back story, since the character development was enough to intrigue me, or something like that.
Hmm, hab ich bisher auf deutsch oder auf englisch geschrieben?Egal, heute gibts deutsch.Böööööööööööses Buch!Gelesen hab ichs während ner Prüfugnsvorbereitungsphase.Eigentlich gar keine Zeit, aber, ein Kapitel wird doch gehen, das darf man sich doch erlauben...Oh, jetzt muss ich das nächste aber auch noch lesen...Und das danach...Und das danach...usw...Verdammt. Halbes Buch weg...Dann kann ichs jetzt auch zuende lesen.Soviel zum Thema lernen an dem Tag, aber ich hatte Spass!!!Weglegen war für mich bei dem Buch keine Option.Wieder wunderbar leicht und flüssig zu lesen, so viel toller als Fachliteratur fürs studium...Ich freu mich aufs nächste.
This book was as much fun as the first one! Betsy is a great main character and I totally love her! And Eric is simply amazing! And a really patient man!!!!!!! But it's not just the two of them, all the characters are good: Tina, Jessica and Marc, Betsy's mom, Father Mark and the Blade Warrior are all well characterized and are all great! The writing is good and the story was compelling.I loved it! And I really couldn't put it down!
I found this book to be just as fun as the first, but with a better plot because there was no need to introduce people/world etc. Betsy is definitely growing on me and I liked that she is trying to remain as independent as possible (respect). We did get vampire hunters introduced in this book though, so if it's a new supernatural creature with every book I'm done - but we'll see if a pattern emerges after reading the next one!
Cute, mindless vampire trash novel. But still fun and I am finding I am enjoying the series. Betsy returns in Undead and Unemployed to find herself working at the Macy's shoe department and loving it. Only to have her plans dashed by Sinclair, a rogue vampire aiming for her title of queen, a love sick vampire slayer, and a boss that tries to help kill her. Still humerous with no point the books are a lot of laughs.
I really enjoyed this book. I seem to be hopping around this series out of order but it doesn't seem to matter. I enjoy it just as much out of order. I love how sarcastic Betsy is. She doesn't want to be undead, the Queen of the undead or stuck with the king of the undead. Nothing seems to be within her control these days. Will I read more of this series? Definitely!
I LOVE Betsy. She is hilarious! She is so no-nonsense. She says what's on her mind and gets right to the point. Well.. she does keep a few secrets to herself. While she is still getting used to being a vampire, she is still finding out how powerful she is what powers she has.I laughed out loud so many times reading this book!
O carte extrem de amuzanta si incitanta !
Poput svoje prethodnice, zabavna i lagana.
It was just silly and it made me laugh.I also liked her employer hiring her to be a retail employee.
By all accounts, their mission to kill vampires was sacred and Betsy bringing their serious mission to geeks had me laughing.
Sinclair was apt to attribute the Wednesday killings to have some ritual meaning when it reality, as Betsy said, it was probably their day offs.
There have been vampire killings around the city.
She had been training the runners to work their way into killing Betsy.
Before she was killed, she put a stake through Betsy's heart.
