https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146155.A_Place_on_Earth
"But I don't believe that when his death is subtracted from his life it leaves nothing.
Do you, Mat?" "No" he says.
"I do not." "What it leave is his life.
just because death is in it?" Her words fall on him like water and like light........"And Mat,"she says "we belong to one another.
however, his words of death, pain, and sorrow seem to hold more hope than anything i touch these days.
Old Jack said in this book that "And a man who is depending on the truth to console him is sometimes in a hell of a fix." Thanks for putting great words to so much i feel.
This book ended my journey through the Port William books.
All nine of these achingly beautiful books have fallen into one of two catergories for me: either it has been "one of the best books I have EVER read" or "Wow. That was gorgeously written, and utterly depressing." This kind of toggled between the two categories.
Since I read it last, it felt like the missing puzzle piece in the lives of many of the Port William membership.
Recommended if you already love the Port William membership.
The folks of Port William have lives that are mix of humor and sadness.
The ebb and flow of the seasons matches the lives of each Character here within the farming year.
Their absence from the Port William membership affects both their families and the broader community.
As the story moves you do get a sense of a certain wonder for a life in simple terms.
A simple fact of life moving forward.
You will slowly feel and become aware of the frenetic pace of contemporary society moving in on Port William and the largely unseen world outside of it.
Each character has something to be grateful for but also something missing; that mixture of feeling is so true to life.In this book we revisit many of the characters we've met in Berry's other Port William novels: Mat and Margaret Feltner, Jayber Crow, Burley Coulter, etc.
Instead of focusing on one person or family, each chapter peeks in at the life of various members of the Port William community.A couple favorite passages:I used to think that when I got to be a man I’d do what I pleased.
But there’s a great many pretty girls that I’ve gone by, and a lot of good hunting nights, and a lot of fishing weather.
Amazing how I’ve got so I depend on my thoughts.
"'But I don't believe that when his death is subtracted from his life it leaves nothing.
Do you, Mat?" "No" he says.
"I don't." "What it leaves is his life.
How could I turn away from it now any more than when he was a child, and not love it and be glad of it, just because death is in it?'" -page 262I want to record that page number so I may go back and reread it in times of sorrow.
This is such a genuine, poignant, soothing book about life and loss.
Wendell Berry is truly one of my favorite authors.
This book took me back to the old home of my grandparents, and to their quiet, hardworking way of life with simple pleasures. My grandma, especially, was with me again as I savored the beauty of the land. Berry always makes me slow down and immerse myself in his stories.
The beauty of the prose is rooted in the details of everyday life in a rural community during WWII - floors swept, wood planed, cows milked, sheep sheared, penny candy bought, alcohol drunk, meals consumed.
That's not to say that events don't overtake the central characters -- tragedy, loss, suicide, and war demand our attention, but it's the response of the characters (floors swept, cows milked, meals consumed) that throw those events into such sharp relief.
And how unglamorous the work of 'keeping going' is.This is a warm book, a book that captures love for a place, and love for a community, and love for a natural world that sometimes doesn't cooperate with the best-made plans of men.
While this was not my initial indoctrination into the life of Wendell Berry's Port William, it would make a superb introduction.
The common thread that runs throughout the book is the life of Port William itself; its complicated, intricately woven tapestry of relationships and interdependencies.
It is greatly rewarding to read this book with the knowledge of Berry's other works of fiction such as Hannah Coulter or Jayber Crow in mind, but those aren't prerequisites for A Place on Earth by any stretch.
A Place on Earth is a wonderful mosaic of lives that culminates in a beautiful, but not idealistic, image of loving, committed community.
A lovely story of farmers and farm life. The land and place, the back drop of the story, is the thread that holds together the individual dramas (and comedies) of the different families and characters depicted. I was inspired by the inextricable link between the characters and the land they farm and the community they are part of. The land really is another member of the community. I was also inspired by the committment to the work of the land of these characters. I aspire to the lifestyle depicted here.
This place is Port William, Kentucky, a rural farming community at the end of WWII. Berry, with his smooth, unadorned, and always poetic prose, introduces his readers to the people and place so lovingly, and with such considered care and detail, that one could almost imagine that Jayber and Burley, Earnest, and Ida, live just down the road. A Place on Earth is a place to linger—as refreshing as clear cold water drawn from a deep well, or a late evening spent on a porch swing watching the stars pierce a blue velvet sky. Perfect!
Beautiful- about Port William during the Second World War.“Jayber always finds himself taking up the defense of marriage.
At these times it seems to Jayber that, of all men in Port William, he’s the most married- not in marriage, but to this ideal of marriage.
He is bound in this way, as he is bound, beyond friendships and his friends, to an ideal of friendship.”
An excellent novel. My first taste of Wendell Berry's fiction and the world of Port William left me wanting more. His poetic descriptions of rural living and relatable characters makes one desire the simple life of small town America, but, as Berry demonstrates, even this type of life is not bereft of the common human experience of loss and suffering.
Heavily edited from its original length, it exists as a novel with a short story form.
He has come to follow her through her days with the pleasing anticipations and recognitions with which one reads a familiar and much loved passage, but with an anxiety, too, as though the passage is but a fragment, leading to the verge of a revelation that is not told, or lost."One thing, old man.
You never know what the other man has to go through." - Jayber CrowThe leaves brightly falling around him, Mat comes into the presence of the place.
This was the first time I committed to reading Berry's fiction.
I have been a long time fan of his poetry and essays, and, to be honest, I was nervous to read his fiction just in case I wouldn't like it.
I could not ignore the man-or-woman-behind-the-curtain enough to become immersed in the story.
I am happy to report that this was not the case with Wendell Berry!
It is a colorful and subtle telling which could almost be read as a necklace of short stories.
This is a book that I will eventually buy, hopefully the audio book as well. I can't express how much this book spoke to me, it resounded deeply within my spirit. The descriptions of scenes, emotions and characters were the best I think I have ever encountered in my long years of reading. The prose takes you on a slow and thoughtful journey which then gently sets you down within the very essence of the story. This book will stay with me for a long time.
Not sure if this is poetry or prose. Remarkable. Inexplicable.
This was a beautiful and a hard book.
To right the wrongs and rebalance the world, it seems that some must pass on, yielding this new future to others, as we all turn in the same cycle of living and dying.
How we cope -- or fail to cope -- with loss, which is inevitable in our lives.
But those of us who succeed at finding solace, according to Berry, find it in the natural world, among the wild places and creatures whose very existence gives us life.
I looked up my notes that I wrote as I was reading Wendell Berry's A Place on Earth. They are probably all the review I should leave:A Place on EarthCatharticIf you want to cry, read this.Chapter 11 A BirthCrying like a baby myself. I know all of Wendell Berry's books cannot be my favorite, but this one really wants to be. Some of the funniest and sweetest and saddest of all of Port William lives in A Place on Earth. As happens in every new Port William book, we get to see the whole membership m
I looked up my notes that I wrote as I was reading Wendell Berry's A Place on Earth.
I know all of Wendell Berry's books cannot be my favorite, but this one really wants to be.
Some of the funniest and sweetest and saddest of all of Port William lives in A Place on Earth.
This book, of all Berry's books that I've yet read, highlights the caring-for-each other part of what it means to be member of Port William.Burley's letters to Nathan are the sweetest Burley I've yet met.
If you are at all already a member of Port William, read this book.
So glad to read more about all of these characters. As another reviewer said "achingly beautiful". One of my favorites of his.
This is a beautifully written book, and includes incredible passages and scenes depicting loss and longing. For me, the pacing was slow, and I found it dragging a bit in some sections. Still, Berry's prose is very much akin to his poetry, and captures well the small moments of life that actually make up most of its meaning.
This book reminds me of my people, farmers and ranchers. Their quiet stoicism, their love affair with not only land but soil, and their stubbornness. I loved the characters and the unassuming narrative. This book could only have been written by someone with an intimate connection to his farm and those who farmed it before. We are all richer for it.
Absolutely lovely. Deals with life's difficult questions in a hopeful way. A book you want to snuggle into.
Achingly and quietly and masterfully beautiful.
A novel of the Port William membership, in A Place on Earth Berry follows the experiences of several men as the war festers and life goes on around it.
A Place on Earth is more than any book in the series so far a reflection on death.Although the war claims the sons of Port William in other books (Mat Feltner's son Virgil is the husband lost in Hannah Coulter), Death is a more active character here.
As the war ends a great flood sweeps the area, taking with it young lives and sending more families into distress, and another character Jayber begins to be groomed as the village gravedigger.
One of my favorite characters, Jaber Crow, is one who has walked away from the faith.But these Port William stories take place on the home front during World War II.
Today we don't think too much about how WWII changed everything in our culture, but from this perspective one gets a glimpse of the "old ways" and the "new ways."I worked on a ranch in 1965, twenty years after the end of World War II, and the owner was from the generation that saw the transition from the old ways to the new ways.
He is a master at showing the joy in and the struggles of relationships among generations of a family, nuclear and extended; friends; co-workers; and community members."Old Jack gets the impression that his opinions and approval are not being asked for, and instead of being angered by the young man's independence as he would have expected, he finds that he is delighted.
While he was taking the measure of the younger man, his own measure has been taken.
Satisfy yourself, and you'll satisfy me.'"The pain and fear when the younger generation goes off to war is heart breakingly depicted in this book.
This is my first Wendell Berry novel, but the themes - at least the first two - are what I expected from all I had read about Berry and his writing.
The theme of loss in this book was something I hadn't read about as being associated with Berry.
Maybe, that's just more of a theme in this novel than in his others.
Berry describes with fine detail the land and the community of Port William.
And, even though Berry adeptly and convincingly reveals to us the thoughts and emotions of numerous characters, none of them think of or talk to God. I found that strange.
Berry’s descriptions of the people and the place makes you feel like you are there.
I liked the book because it is about caring and helping out ones neighbor, literally.
Berry has painted a word picture of a time that is long gone.
A gentle word picture.
There are many characters and at first it is a bit confusing because of the way he tells the story but about the middle of the book you feel you know them and know how they relate to each other.
I would recommend the book but only to those who can do with out much action.
A Place on Earth is a beautifully written, sometimes heartbreaking, portrait of a fictional agricultural community during WWII.
It stuck a cord.
"But I don't believe that when his death is subtracted from his life it leaves nothing.
Do you, Mat?" "No" he says.
"I don't." "What it leaves is his life.
just because death is in it?" Her words fall on him like water and like light........"And Mat, "she says "we belong to each another.
Doesn't it mean something?" It is along time before he answers...."I don't know what it means," he says finally.
'I know what it's worth." page 262
This book might have gotten 4 stars if it hadn't been for the long, excruciating drunken scene and faux burial in the penultimate chapter.
I think most of the poignant moments and sentences for me were in the beginning of the book.
It gave me high hopes for the remainder.
I had previously read Jayber Crow and so was familiar with the author and the people of Port William.
I found this story to be sadder all around, and it left me feeling like the characters were without an anchor and without hope.
I've met plenty of simple, country people whose religion doesn't seem to do them a lick of good.
