https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97961.Archangel
The leader of the Host at the Eyrie, Gabriel, is preparing to become the new Archangel at the Gloria - a mass sung on the Plain of Sharon - but must first find the woman whom Jovah has selected as his wife.
The discord between Rachel and Gabriel becomes worse due to their problems communicating with each other, while the present Archangel, Raphael, lets it be known that he has no intention of stepping down, and will go to drastic lengths to prove that Jovah does not even exist.
I couldn’t put it down.Note - Archangel is not a Romance novel.
This is a Fantasy novel with romantic elements, but do not expect your traditional Romance themes & behaviors – you will most likely be disappointed.Another Note – I’ve heard some complaints about the religious elements in the book.
Some of the character names & references are taken for Judeo Christianity, but I wouldn’t feel comfortable calling this a Christian text.
It’s just fiction, not conversion literature or blasphemy, just fiction.Yet Again Another Note – I’ve read that Rachel is a Mary Sue. If so, she the whiniest most unlikable Mary Sue ever.
Oh, you know, it’s your typical book about another planet where an angel rescues a woman from slavery and forces her to marry him because his god/an AI told him to.
The angel, not the AI.This is actually not as batshit as I’m making it sound, though it’s still decidedly .
I don’t have an arranged marriage kink or an angel kink or any of the other seventeen kinks this book was hurling at me.
I mean, be silly wanking if you want, I don’t judge, just actually be it, or decide not to be it.Not as sexually skeezey as expected, nor as emotionally immature.
Archangel chronicles the beautiful, blooming love story between Rachel and Gabriel.
We have a villain in Archangel and while I was satisfied with the manner in which that particular plot wrapped up, I don't know if I can say the same about Rachel and Gabriel's romance.
While I understood where her stubborn, hard-will nature stemmed from and even saw the logic of her actions at the end of the novel, since Rachel needed some time to be her own person and take her own actions before she could back to Gabriel and even that had to be by her own choice, I somehow didn't enjoy the manner in which everything played out.
Shinn's books are like that for me.
I was reading the heart of heart example of something that mattered a great deal to Sharon Shinn.I didn't know if I was really going to like this.
(A common theme in Shinn's works is enslavement.)The spiritual or religious beliefs is music.
But Rachel is still in love with her Edori man.
I did not expect to read a book with a love story in it that believed in what I believe in.
The listening is like the listening of the angel's music.
Delightfully sex positive, allows the protagonist to consider the possibility of adultery after her forced marriage and portrays a realistic way for such a difficult relationship to evolve into a touching romance.
I disagree.This is a result of a chronic pattern of trivialising serious power differentials between love interests in romances for the sake of a swoony plot.The reality is that the main character is traumatised, enslaved and then handed over as chattel to her soon-to-be husband.
NOT COOL.This is Potter-level reverse rape culture and it sucks.If you can stomach that and enjoy it despite that aspect, the novel is a unique and enjoyable read.
Archangel is set in Samaria, divided into three domains Gaza, Bethel and Jordanna lead by angels.
But in Samaria there is harmony, or it is supposed to strive for it: harmony in all thigs is what their god Jehovah teaches should always exist between all land and people.
But instead what we read about is a world that is immersed in discord and disharmony, where prejudice and enslavement thrive.Angels as Jehovah’s representatives on Samaria communicate with Him through music.
Gabriel is the leader of Eyrie, preparing to become the new Archangel or leader of all angels and Samaria.
LOVE this series so much. Predates a lot of the fantasy/romance out there that's so popular now. Angels in an alternate universe. Weird to explain but really really good!
This story gets a three star rating because of the details and music description but that's about it.The story started off with Gabriel and Rachel being irritating.
But as the story went on, I began to sympathize and feel so sorry for Gabriel.
Towards the end, we saw Gabriel soften and change a little, but Rachel refuse to change at all.I was shocked when other characters had to tell Rachel that she was in love with Gabriel.
She was so unlikeable that I began to root for Gabriel to find another girl, just to snap her out of it.
I didn't feel the love between them.
4.5 🌟🌟🌟🌟 "Only the strong are put through the fire" Josiah said. "And the forge creates things of great strength and beauty." I resented both Rachel and Gabriel at the beginning of the story, but ended up loving them in the end.The story kept me engaged till the very end and even though, most of the time, the 'what will happen' was pretty obvious, the 'how it will come to pass' was intriguing and beautiful.I loved the religion and the music. The structure of the society is original and absolutel

There are a great many hints about it scattered throughout ARCHANGEL, but the focus is more on the character interactions and a spattering of details about the world itself as opposed to its history.So, let us examine the lead players in this book:Rachel, who I have barely mentioned in my “back cover synopsis” above, is the main character.
The current Archangel will soon step down from his position and be taken over by the angel Gabriel.
Rachel, his intended bride, was not raised as a slave but her village was destroyed when she was a child and was adopted by a nomadic group of people.
To Rachel, Gabriel's world seems like just another kind of prison and does everything in her power to make the upcoming Archangel's life as uncomfortable as possible.
It sounds like a very strange book at first, and it really is when you start reading it.
I can't do this anymore. I  refuse  to suffer like this. I'm sad to say, but the heroine is an immature, biased, spiteful bitch. Can somebody please smack some sense into her! Please! She's ruining the whole story! Everytime she does something good, she ruins it by being such a stubborn bitch! The concept of angels and God is intriguing but all of those thing is overshadowed by how immature the freaking heroine is!Does she have to be so hateful? Does she have to be angry and bitter and  UGHGGGGH
I'm sad to say, but the heroine is an immature, biased, spiteful bitch.
Everytime she does something good, she ruins it by being such a stubborn bitch!
The concept of angels and God is intriguing but all of those thing is overshadowed by how immature the freaking heroine is!Does she have to be so hateful?
No saving grace can salvage the whole book from the heroine.She's unreasonable, selfish, hateful, shrew!
Cause she's acting like my spoiled 5 year old brother!To be fair with her, I gave her chances.
I gave her half of the book to freaking change, to 
4 stars
I didn't terribly like that the Edori were universally good and the Janisai universally bad.
Gabriel apparently needed to be humbled and I'd say his character journey went smoothly, Rachel's- not so much.
I didn't like Gabriel at first but his progress was well drawn and I liked him in the end, while Rachel - with her I had at points wanted to strangle her and at others to cheer her on, but it ended on a sour note.
I understand she had a hard background and needed to go through a more complicated emotional journey but I would have like for her to have reached some conclusions about what she really wanted earlier.
One of my new favorite authors. She does a nice fantasy/romance thing, but this series also has interesting theology. And her characters are distinct and likeable. But the best part is the worldbuilding. I really feel like she knows the geography of her worlds inside and out, like it's a living breathing place that really could exist somewhere out there.
Angel Gabriel, being next in the line to become Archangel and lead the annual Gloria to assure God everything is in harmony has a problem. He needs to find his chosen bride by God – the Angelica – within six months to assist him with the Gloria or desaster will strike. He isnt happy about Rachel being a farmers daughter und probably untutored to lead the Gloria with him. But Gods will has to be obeyed. When Gabriel arrives at the village where Rachel is supposed to live he finds everything is de
Angel Gabriel, being next in the line to become Archangel and lead the annual Gloria to assure God everything is in harmony has a problem.
When Gabriel arrives at the village where Rachel is supposed to live he finds everything is destroyed and there´s no trace of his future wife.
Gabriel doesn´t always show much sensibility (e.g. one of his wedding gifts) in dealing with his wife and hurts Rachel´s feelings and Rachel is more than once only stubborn to have her own way because for the sake of stubbornness.
Raphael stops at nothing to prolong his reign and to hinder Gabriel to sing the Gloria.I was really entchanted by this original book!Website of the author: http://www.sharonshinn.net
Because Sarah J. Maas told me to. Plus SWOON, I hear. :D
I've been meaning to read this one forevvvvver.
I really loved the characters and the world.
I am so excited to read more.Mostly I guess it's just two things holding me back:1.
I needed them to spend more time together to really believe in their love.
But because I WAS on board at the end, I think I'd like it a lot better on re-read.
(I was, however, vey interested in (view spoiler)[Nathan and Mag.
(hide spoiler)])2.
After the climax, I didn't need much more and was ready to be done.But, overall, I'm glad I finally got to this.
Angel/human romance amid angel political conspiracies and power plays. "On hiatus" is a nice way of saying "this book was a DNF for me but I think I may go back and try to finish it sometime." If I didn't actually own this book, though, I'd probably just mark it DNF and give it up. When Sharon Shinn is on, she's a great fantasy author, but I'm finding that I don't care for everything she writes. Enough people like this that she's written at least 5 books in this series, so maybe it's just me.
This is essentially Anne McCaffrey’s Dragonriders of Pern, except Shinn has merged the dragons and people into one, the flying, singing angels.The world actively annoyed me because it didn’t make any sense, even when allowing for the fact that it’s just a metaphorical Fantasy with some sci-fi stuff overlaid on it.
"The angelica," he said, through tight lips, "holds the position of highest honor on Samaria. She sings beside the Archangel at the Gloria. She hears petitions that men and women fear to put before the Archangel himself. She can, if she chooses, be a great force for good among mortals, among angels. Many angelicas have had special relationships with Jovah, asking from him boons and favors which have been divinely granted. The angelica is one step from the god.""The angelica, you said," she resp
In a world where 'Jovah' is an irrefutable presence in the world (view spoiler)[There is in fact some good old-fashioned striking down of his enemies (hide spoiler)] the angels lead the people according to his will, with their mortal spouses by their sides, the angelicas (or angelicos).
The angels are told by the oracle which mortal Jovah has destined them to be with, the idea being that this person will be their perfect other half and vice versa.Gabriel, soon to be Archangel, must find his angelica within the space of the meager few months he's left himself.
Gabriel is a very proud man, he found it galling enough when he heard his angelica was to be a farmer's daughter, but a slave girl?
2) Two angels who are in love get to live happily every after despite the fact that angels are traditionally not supposed to breed, and the main character and her extremely good-looking, paramount singer husband can be assumed to live happily ever after as well after a steamy long-awaited consummation of their marriage that is implied at the end of the novel.
This idea was developed in the novel with stories of previous angel/mortal liaisons spurred by the "true love" signal of glowing kisses that did, in fact, result in angelic offspring for the sacrifice of one or both partners' happiness.
Each book tells the love story of its pair of protagonists, and also the progressive discovery of what this world really is, one generation at a time.(view spoiler)[On reread, I usually skip over description and plot point of people discussing their philosophy and faith re Jehovah.
(hide spoiler)].This one begins the series and introduce the world, a medieval setting with the Church being a close part of everyone's lives.
Once a year, all the representative humans and Angels must sing at the Plain of Sharon, in order to appease Jehovah, who otherwise would destroy the world.The story begins with Gabriel, the Archangel-elect, seeking his angela by Jehovah's guidance, and finding the ex-slave ex-Edori Rachel.
Initially they hate each other, and through a series of misunderstandings they fall apart before in the end finally coming together and realizing that they love each other (mainly, the male noble needs to swallow his pride and beg and plead a bit before the stubborn girl relents, but only because he really has a good heart).What's more interesting is the setting; the girl is an orphaned slave girl from a nomadic tribe while the guy is an angel lord named Gabriel, soon to become Archangel of the world Samaria, and their love has been ordained by the god, Jovah.
I'm glad I've heard so many good things about this book because otherwise, I wouldn't have picked it up based on the strength of its cover alone.I loved the worldbuilding in this book.
Every twenty years, an Archangel is chosen to govern the whole country and every year, the Archangel leads the people in singing a mass, the Gloria, in praise of the god.
His angelica (or her angelico if the Archangel is female), the god's chosen wife (or husband) must sing by the Archangel's side.
I think it's just enough to show the religion in that world and the strength of the characters' beliefs.I also loved the characters in this book.
But I don't think I'm too far off base with this one, since the entire plot hinged around a marriage of convenience and the two main characters reconciling the differences in their personality and, yes, falling in love.However, the romantic elements took a far back seat to the politics of a desert land called Samaria, and these politics weren't very interesting.
If you're not into romance but ARE into hard-headed characters and music and a bunch of things that have nothing to do with anything, and possibly into religion, you might enjoy this book.
I've never encountered this sort of setting in a romance or fantasy novel before, so it was fairly striking, and from the style of the writing, Shinn really seems to know how the bible reads.
Otherwise, the writing was pretty excellent; Shinn is good at "passing time." Some novels feel like they're recounting events in real time, whereas here, weeks could go by in a single paragraph.All in all, a good book.
However, since it was a romance book, I would have liked a little more closeness between the two characters.
They really were at each others' throats to the very end, and I found Rachel to be just a little too stubborn and unreasonable.
The first time I read this, I must have been aroun 14.
Now, seven years later, my opinion has changed dramatically.
This book is perfection.
Its romance is not over dramatic or cheesy.
I couldn't understand how Rachel could turn Gabriel away so many times.
I appreciated how she struggled with herself because her heart wanted Gabriel but she was such in her ways.
You really have to be mature and patient to love this book, but as long as you give it a fair chance, it will be so rewarding.
I really want to read the rest of the series now.
A thoroughly engaging fantasy, but a less than satisfying romance.
This world of angels, humans and oracles drew me in totally.
If so, how do these angel/human pairings end?
Gabriel was arrogant and Rachel was impossible.
Impossible.
For all the conflicts and trouble these two went through, we don't see enough of the turnaround to really believe in the HEA.I did like the fantasy religion and the theme of whether the god exists or not.
That made the entire thing very compelling, even considering the so-so romance aspect.I'm not sure if I'll read more in this series though.
