https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26581.Sleeping_Beauty_Trilogy
ah, anne rice's beauty series.
i was fourteen when i asked for this series for christmas.
my family knew i loved to read and the only description i gave of the books was that they were just another anne rice goth trilogy.
luckily, the box set i unwrapped christmas morning was still sealed in shrinkwrap.
I think they would have had a heart attack if they knew they had bought their little catholic school girl bookworm a complete box set of graphic S&M erotica.
it was the best christmas ever!
I ran up to my room, locked the door, and didn't come out again until the next day.
I love dirty books!
;) I thought the Happy Hooker books were pretty naughty, but these 3 are some of the dirtiest I've ever read.
I'd say it is a 'must read' for anyone interested in bdsm.
I definitely got turned on, which is great, but I also felt like I just had to know what happened to Beauty and her, erm, associates next, which is even better!
I usually don't read a book more than once, but I keep coming back to these, so that's really saying something!
They are nothing like the novels typically associated with Anne Rice.
I love Anne Rice, but half way into book one, I was tired of all the spanking. I read the whole series because I cannot start reading books and put them down. I have to finish. And it was a chore. Not hot. Unless your fetish is spanking. Mine's not. Don't get me wrong. I was not offended or disgusted. I was bored.
This is pure erotica. Not a romance. There is a lot of BDSM, servitude, Punishment, f/m, m/m, f/f, and multiple partners in various forms. Not for the faint of heart.
The opening showed promise - he scales the castle wall and finds the cursed princess in her bower, powerless to stop him from doing Whatever - but it quickly became clear that neither the prince or his newly claimed princess-slave would be developed beyond one-dimensional cardboard archtypes.
He's a mamma's boy with a sadistic streak, which renders unbelievable the notion that he would so much as cross the street to awaken Sleeping Beauty, much less scale the walls of a cursed castle.
That would be a deal-breaker for me, even if he didn't share his sex slaves with her after he gets bored with them, which happens asap.
I read it so long ago . Well… If you are over 18 and want to know how a erotic novel must be you MUST start with this one. I was so incredible (my personal experience) read about so many (stupid) taboos that I couldn’t stop. She is marvelous… great book. Enjoy (really, I mean, enjoy in all senses ) the reading.
Princes and Princesses are sent as tributes to serve as sex slaves to the Crowned Queen, in order to maintain an alliance.
Shortly after that night, Beauty sees that Prince Tristan was being sent to the village for punishment.
For reasons unknown to Beauty, she ran in order to be punished as well.The second book, Beauty’s Punishment, was told in two POV’s, Tristan and Beauty.
Just when they were becoming content, they were captured along with Prince Laurent, and taken to a foreign land.The final book, Beauty’s Release, was again told in two POV’s, Laurent and Beauty.
And 99 percent of this sex is not even consensual, and some of the things they engage in were actually dangerous - like being suspended from a beam, or never being allowed to walk and forced to crawl on hard stone floors, which would leave their knees in ruin at the end of their tenure.According to the story, hundreds of Princes and Princesses are captive at the Queen's palace, while children of lords and ladies become slaves at noble houses.
You can see why i can't forget about it, now every time I hear the words "sleeping beauty" I remember this book, I didn't even read the second or the third,, I believe I would have had a heart attack,, LooL, anyway I don't think I would recommend any body to read it, you will gain nothing but erotically twisted imagination, no emotions and bad feelings, if I could give it less or no stars I would :')
Sizzling hot series!The first time I read this collection by Anne Rice was many, many years ago and it absolutely blew me away. I loved how creative and imaginative the stories were as well as unbelievably rough, raunchy, and sizzling hot. They definitely inspired me years later when I started to write my own erotica. The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty is still one of my favourite erotic novels even years later.
This set was a gift from someone who just didn't know any better. I read most of the first one; it was awful. I find it very difficult to just throw a book in the trash, preferring to give them to someone who'd appreciate them. I don't know anyone I could have inflicted this drek on. These books are among the very few I as all too happy to just trash. Ick.
I read this set years ago and yet even today it sends chills and awakens my private area's. Not meant for the young. Not meant for the prude. Well written. I love this set and could read it over and over.
I love Anne Rice. But I ABSOLUTELY HATE this series! It is degrading and disturbing but I read it all because I thought it'll be better, but, oh boy. I wasted a very long time over this books.
This book is a good read (note: erotica) for those who are into BDSM. This rather peculiar twist of the Sleeping Beauty fairytale is quite interesting-- I can still quite remember the singular scenes of the oriental palace. What's most curious is that just like any fairytale, this one ends in a happy ending-- one wherein a pretty princess gets a sexually-fulfilled happily ever after.
Read 28%, DNF.I love erotica. I love stories that contain BDSM. I can even handle -and like- stories with ambiguous consent, but utter degradation for the sole purpose breaking of someone I have a tough time with.
Wow! The same things were repeated page after page. It was so boring and predictable. After the second book I had enough. I started the third but it was just absolutely some of the craziest writing I've ever read. I couldn't take anymore. Will not waste my time on anymore books like this.
I started reading these after 50 Shades of Grey. All I can say is that these books would make Christian Grey cry.
twisted version of sleeping beauty. very errotic
Sexy and erotic and all about S & M. Gay men sex, heterosexual sex, lesbian sex. This series is all about sex.
[image error]
The top reason for banning books are sex, violence, drugs, and religion.
Banning books doesn’t help student, it takes away from their learning or take away what they enjoy doing on their free time which is to read.
Yes violence is a bad thing but at the same time it gives people a knowing about life.
Many people don’t think that they can take something from violence but they can.
The reason books are being banned or challenged help out people in life to survive.
Age could be a reason they are being banned so to stop this give the books a rating like video games.
I have wanted to read this series for years, but since I could never find it in the library (the joys of living in an ultra conservative area), I never had the chance until recently.The style was a bit simplistic, until I realized that it was an adaptation of a fairy tale - essentially a children's story - and then I found the style quite appropriate.
There were no judgments or opinions given on the topic of slaves or submission, and each character found their own way in the world of full submission.As sexy as the series is, it was more thought provoking to me than anything else.
I absolutely recommend it as a good read and as a way to better understand dominance and submission, especially the Master/slave dynamic.
I have finished book one, "The Claiming of Beauty", in 2 days.
I just couldn't put it down.
I have never read anything like this trillogy, and probably never will again.
It's labled as "literary erocita", but is bassically all the most horrible sexual situations you can think of.I'm about half way through book 2, and at first I thought that Beauty was being used aginst her will, but now I am not so sure.
If you want to read something totally out of the norm, I recomend these book, and I can't wait untill the end!
An extravagant, tantalizing read full of over-the-top sexual scenes of the most hardcore persuasion, but also full of a very honest and remarkably insightful study in mentality for the protagonists involved, that I found utterly interesting and well-shaped.
The whole trilogy leans by far on the hyperbole, but I took this from the beginning as intentional and didn't mind a bit.
The setting also seemed deliberately dreamy and fairy-tale like in all three books and that just added to the dramatic changes in the protagonist's frame of thought.
It was honest, brilliant and intense, provocative and, needless to say, sensual as hell.
A must-read for those who enjoy such themes.
these naughty little books are an interesting read. They are erotica, so know that if you choose to read them- Anne Rice certainly had a dirty little mind at one point- for which I think she's trying to atone, now that she's re-embraced her Catholic faith and started writing about Jesus... These books are the kind that I don't mind that my sister's read them (which she has) but I would die if I knew my mother read them (which I'm praying she hasn't!!!)** I read these as separate editions, probably around 1997 or so.....
WARNING FOLKS: This is ADULT BDSM SEXUAL fantasy and could be shocking to those not familiar with the genre or lifestyle. It's not the best writing in the world, either. Only pick this series up if you are looking for some unique BDSM smut! Anne Rice fans beware... this is not her usual fare! It'd be a interesting project for someone (not me) to note exactly how many times Beauty gets spanked in this and the rest of the series! And she's not the only one! Naughty, naughty, naughty... whack, whack, whack... (can you say repetitive?)
Kink, sex, debauchery, lust, love- twisted. Do not judge us that loved these books. But then again, I hear the Fifty Shades of Grey books aren't tame ( I can't attest to them, I haven't read them. The reason I've stayed away thus far is due to all the hype) either.I appreciate the fact that although Beauty is treated as nothing except a pleasurable sex toy for seemingly every man in existence, she ends up being amazingly strong in the end.
I have read this series like 10 times. It is by far the best erotic series I have ever read. Now, if you are a virgin and super pure, this is NOT the series for you. I have to say that this is not The Sleeping Beauty fairy tale that you are used to. Ann Rice made this more adult. Now, I will not tell you the what happened in this series. I will tell you if you want to read something naughty, this is it!!
My daughter and step daughter were passing these books back and forth, so I finally snagged the first one in the series to see what all the excitement was. After the first chapter my head was buzzing and I was so fascinated that I could not put it down. It made me realize how exciting public humiliation of a woman was to me. It was frightening to realize, and yet I felt like it was a breakthrough to know...Amazing work...This woman is a genius!!
I have currently read the first one of these. While I was dissapointed that it did not have more story, as the build-up always makes the naughty bits that much more exciting to me, it did have enough variety to keep me reading this erotica. Not for the faint of heart or the sexually prudish. Worth reading book two to see what happens.
