https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48858.Travels_With_My_Aunt
It turned out to be a fun and entertaining story about Henry Puling, a very unimaginative, conservative retired English bachelor in his 50s who meets his eccentric Aunt Augusta for the first time in decades on the day of his mother's funeral.
She takes Henry away from his boring humdrum life of tending dahlias, and they end up travelling around the world, breaking laws and meeting a motley crowd.There was a lot of dry humour in this book which seems to have stood the test of time.
I suppose some people would say the same of my ideas, the bank had taught me to be wary of whims.” Contrasted with Aunt Augusta who first appears at his mothers funeral, an immoral woman with one driving ambition - live life to the fullest.
Brutally honest  “I've never wanted a man who needed me, Henry.
Regret your own actions, if you like that kind of wallowing in self-pity, but never, never despise.” 
Henry's life is irreversibly changed when he joins her as a travelling companion, entering “my aunt's world, the world of the unexpected character and the unforeseen event.’ As British Humour a solid 4 stars.
But don’t be fooled by this veneer of a seemingly light-hearted and superficial fun story – there meaning here too.Amusing and entertaining though this novel is (being one of Greene’s so-called ‘entertainments’ rather than serious novels) – as it comes from the pen of Graham Greene, there is of course a serious nature and undertone to the story.
What is painted here is very much a middle England, middle class, middle brow, middle management existence – certainly as the starting point and impetuous for our forthcoming adventure.As with all of Greene’s work, ‘Travels with my Aunt’ is expertly executed from start to finish – Greene is very much a solid and reliable, as well as brilliant, writer.
People are generally seen at their best on these occasions, serious and sober, and optimistic on the subject of personal immortality.”Graham Greene has at once won my attention with his subtle irony – for me it is the best kind of wit.Protagonist and narrator, Henry Pulling, a retired bank manager is a very timorous and highly introvertive man.This is the boy: “Too many books by too many authors can be confusing, like too many shirts and suits.
I suppose some people would say the same of my ideas, but the bank had taught me to be wary of whims.
His aunt, in her seventies, is a formidable character fond of Henry and action, she simply plans her itinerary abroad with a bit of adventure in mind, rather than mope and stay home; therefore, Henry has no choice but follows her plan by keeping going and solving problems from some unexpected plights or weird people along the way.Surprisingly, I found reading this reluctantly long-awaited book inimitably hilarious with wonderful dialogs, fantastic plot, unthinkable climax, etc.
The jacket said it was the only book that Greene ever wrote for the fun of it.
An old woman who proclaims way too loudly that she's having a great time to make her cliche of a stiff upper lip Englishman nephew feel more befuddled than Hugh Grant at the height of his befuddled niche as the go-to guy for befuddled Englishmen in postcard English life films.
Henry didn't know how to have fun and Aunt Augusta is the aging bar slut who brags about what a crazy wild night she had fifteen years ago.
How come Aunt Augusta liked to talk about having fun so much?
Could Greene have been having that much fun if he wanted to fit in so badly?
But before Wordsworth, she lived in Paris with a married man, and before that in Istanbul with a general Abdul and before that with an Italian Visconti and I almost forgot Currin, the priest of the Dog church back in a small English town.Pulling just wants to stay home with his dahlias but Aunt Augusta propels him across Europe because, it turns out, she is smuggling money and needs his help.
That takes a particular kind of character, one which does not look at life with the calm grey eyes of the author of The Heart of the Matter and The Burnt-Out Case.Travels With My Aunt is a delightful book -- one that could easily have gone off in several other directions.
A newcomer has to start looking at the file from the beginning.
In the end it's easier for them to give in."The way that Greene plants the Pottifer story in the novel gives it a unique significance.
Check it out when you read the book: I don't want to give the author's secret away.
Can Graham Greene write a book without turning it into a mystery or a crime novel?
and yet I fear that you have to know the characters to understand the message conveyed.
On sex, Aunt Augusta declares, keep in mind she is in her seventies, "I have always preferred an occasional orgie to a nightly routine." Or, if you are annoyed at your kids, this line might speak to you, "They go away from you.
The book is about travel and all the countries where I have shelved it are visited.....but you neither see nor smell nor experience the different couture of the lands visited.
This is a book of humor.
When his mother dies, Pulling is suddenly clued in to a lot of realities about who he really is and what his family was really up to, thanks to a long-absent ebulliant aunt, Augusta, who brings Henry up to speed on a good number of the facts of life that the naive naif nephew seems to have missed.
Read years ago and it still stands out as very, very funny. So have added it to favourites.
سفرهایم با خاله جان داستانی پر شخصیت و خاکستری که چه یک هفته ای یا یک ماهه خونده بشه بعد از تموم شدنش براش دلتنگ می شی.داستان نه خیلی قوی اما از متوسط هم بالاتر بود.شخصیت ها توی داستان زیاد بودن که البته لطمه ای وارد نمیشد اما گاهی خواننده رو سردرگم می کرد.پایان کتاب هم غافلگیر کننده بود
'Does he speak English or French?''It is not likely.' I felt hopelessly abroad. The book is unequally divided in two parts, the first taking up most of it. I will have to separate them in my review, for they inspired very different feelings.The Good Stuff (about Part 1) "You must surrender yourself first to extravagance" - it is well written, as you expect a classic work of literature to be;- it was funny, even outrageous and surprising at times, in a way I didn't expect a classic work of liter
We often choose to interpret our fear, laziness, inertia and perpetual boredom as moral superiority, loyalty and a will of iron, where there is none of that.Aunt Augusta's character in Part 1 can be summed up by these few lines:
Like, with that married guy she loved, then found out she was his second mistress, then he dumped her, and she begged him to continue fucking her once a week, being third in line.
Henry becomes the henchman of the guy Augusta "loves".
'Tis better to travel hopefully...When middle-aged Henry Pulling attends the cremation of his mother, he meets his mother's sister, Aunt Augusta, a woman he knows only from old family photographs.
But Henry finds himself drawn towards her, her frank stories of a life full of incident providing a contrast to his own rather dull and lonely existence as a retired bank manager in the respectable little community of Southwood.
And soon Augusta entices Henry to join her on some of her journeys, first on the Orient Express to Istanbul and later to South America.This is a gentle little comedy without any of the profundity of Greene's major works but still with a certain amount of charm.
I have mixed feelings about this book--it was recommended to me highly by a friend, and I could totally see why: Greene is a master of his prose (check out the opening lines) and there were brilliant chapters in the novel.
But still worth a read, though not Greene's best--this is an example of how brilliant prose and great characters can overcome shortcomings (like an overabundance of convenient coincidences).
The best line in the book: "I felt hopelessly abroad."Opening lines:"I met my Aunt August for the first time in more than half a century at my mother's funeral.
I laughed out loud so many times reading this book.It is sublime and it is subversive, and the dialogue between Aunt Augusta and Henry actually reminds me of some conversations I have had with my great-uncle, whose stories have influenced me in a similar way that Henry has been affected by his Aunt – except, of course, that neither of has been involved in smuggling, founding religious groups, or “the stage”...
Having read The Heart of the Matter and The End of the Affair, I am glad though that this is not the first of Greene’s novels I turned to, as Travels With My Aunt seems to be quite different.
It’s Our Man in Havana next for me to delve into his spy novels.
I was set to give it 2 stars, but after the tedium of Aunt Augusta's stories (she's highly offended when Henry, pleading tiredness, doesn't want to listen to one of her stories at the moment, but I understood completely!) has passed into the background, the story picked up considerably and I was able to go with its flow.This is a 'comic' (in both senses of the word) novel and it works as such -- it's just not a favorite genre of mine.
It's as well-written as any Greene novel, though different from any I've read.
Well, this one did not work for me at all. I can understand it`s appeal to other readers but I never really got hooked and I can`t really put my finger on the reason why.
Well, this one did not work for me at all. I can understand it`s appeal to other readers but I never really got hooked and I can`t really put my finger on the reason why.
Soon after the police come round asking to see what is in the urn, he explains it is his mothers ashes, but they take it from him for sampling.His aunt persuades him to join her on a trip to Brighton, as she feels that he needs to travel more, something that a psychic predicts will happen as well.
Henry decides to join his aunt on a trip to Paris, and then onto Istanbul on the Orient Express.
The police are asking more question about his aunt too, and one of her former associates, but she has vanished of the face of the earth.
Sem estar de sobreaviso fui olhado por certo como um pobre ser descompensado enquanto em público não conseguia conter as gargalhadas, ainda que não sonoras, provocavam uma espécie de ataque convulsivo ao qual alguns não ficaram indiferentes.
Henry está no funeral da sua mãe quando conhece a sua tia Augusta, e longe está de perceber como esta mulher em breve mudará a sua vida de pernas para o ar.
Despretensioso, divertido, bem escrito.
Divertido, já disse?One's life is more formed, I sometimes think, by books than by human beings: it is out of books one learns about love and pain at second hand.
Travels With My Aunt tells the story of a retired bank manager, Henry Pulling, whose dull suburban life is forever changed by his elderly Aunt Augusta, who convinces him to come travelling with her.
A riotous romp across Europe and later South America ensues, but as the story progresses the belly laughs and hilarious moments give way to increasingly darker undertones.At its core, the book poses an intriguing question: what is it to lead a good life?
Is excitement and adventure better than leading a quiet, settled existence?
And to what extent should we broaden our horizons — or toe the line?
Throughout, Henry Pulling comes across as a genial, predictable gent in his late fifties, whilst Aunt Agatha seems to be a confirmed member of Hell’s Grannies.
Europe – the world even – seems to be littered with her conquests, with hardly a country passing by without some faded memory of hers coming back to life.As it unfolds, Travels With My Aunt reveals itself as a true masterpiece of twentieth century fiction.
But he comes into his own and eventually it is no surprise when he describes his new life, which is almost as far removed from a suburban bank manager’s office as it is possible to get.

This was my first Graham Greene's novel. Oh, the ashes. Anything funnier? I laughed so much with the wild aunt and her nerd nephew, I couldn't wait to read his other comedies. Naturally, I was disappointed with his following books, which goes to show how subjective is each reading. Anyway, I'm over it now, and loving his books.
Henry Pulling, a retired bank manager in his fifties, meets his Aunt Augusta for the first time since he was a baby, at his mother’s funeral.
Before he knows where he is, this irrepressible aunt has lured him away from his beloved dahlias and involved him in shady dealings and journeys with ulterior motives, first to Brighton, then on the Orient Express to Istanbul.I thought this was hilarious, especially in the beginning.
Aunt Augusta with her devoted lovers is a great character.
The story gets a little lost towards the end, perhaps, but after all it’s the journey that’s important, not the destination.
The other night at dinner I told a friend I was reading a book that I thought she would like.
When I told her it was Graham Greene's Travels with my Aunt she was ebullient, while our other friend said, "I will never read another book by THAT man." The three of us had all read Journeys without Maps together.
Attending his mother's funeral Pulling meets his Aunt Augusta for the first time.
No one in Travels is a certain quantity, Henry Pulling included.
Like much of Greene's books, it is ultimately, despite Augusta's corrupt optimism, vaguely sad.
Lezione con la ziaA volte accade qualcosa nella nostra vita che improvvisamente la divide in "prima" e "dopo".Per il protagonista di questo romanzo, Henry, già pensionato "nella mente", che conduce una vita monotona e in solitudine e che si occupa solo delle sue dalie in giardino, l'evento che scuote la sua esistenza è l'incontro con la vulcanica zia Augusta, settantacinquenne.La zia è capace di grandi passioni, a differenza di Henry.
Nella vita di Henry entra come un uragano; e l'effetto che lascia è quello di una rivoluzione.Dal momento dell'incontro Henry inizia a seguire la zia in viaggi in giro per il mondo, a fare incontri strani, a vedere cose poco lecite, ma anche a riflettere sulla sua vita e a scoprire di non avere praticamente quasi vissuto, fino a quel momento.
“I met my Aunt Augusta for the first time at my mother’s funeral” is the opener.
Aunt Augusta, on the other hand, is a rip-snorting high liver with a criminal past and (as it turns out) future with a joie de vivre Henry can only dream of.
The main comedy emerges from the straight arrow tendencies of Henry clashing with the free-for-all proclivities of his aunt.
We spend a little more time in England on this one (as far as I know Brighton Rock is Greene’s only novel set entirely on the isle), but true to the title, we do get to France, Istanbul, Argentina, and, eventually Paraguay.
"One's life is more formed, I sometimes think, by books than by human beings: it is out of books one learns about love and pain at second hand. Even if we have the happy chance to fall in love, it is because we have been conditioned by what we have read...."The only part of the book I liked
Slightly disappointing ending, but overall a lovely, thoughtful story.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
