https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4772991-the-12
What a pleasure!In The 12.30 from Croydon (which incidentally is a flight, not a train), the author takes a totally different slant on both the crime and investigation.We begin with a body.
And will the killer get away with it?The chapter headings are delightful - 'Charles Suffers a Setback', the writing is compelling and the characters oh so very human!
The final few chapters are devoted to the events from the detective's viewpoint.All together, very different but it works superbly!Thank you to Poison Pen Press via NetGalley for a digital ARC of the 12.30 from Croydon for review.
Following the rather brilliantly described flight to Paris, at a time when planes were still held together by little more than chewing-gum and prayer, the book flashes back a few weeks in time and we meet Charles Swinburn, nephew of the murdered man.
I suspect it may only have been added because French was Crofts' recurring detective, and perhaps Crofts felt existing fans would have felt short-changed if his part in the story didn't get told.So, a slow start and an unnecessary section at the end, but the bulk of the book – the planning, the crime itself, and the investigation as seen through Charles' eyes – is excellent.
Crofts has created a mystery that will keep you on the edge of your seat with suspense, horror, and helplessness.
Somehow, he used the very familiarity of his villain’s day to day routine to make it all the more suspenseful.
Could this really be the perfect crime?
You’ll want to scream at the villain, ‘Just stop!
You’ll never get away with it.’ But you can’t.
It’s inevitable the crime will be committed, but will he get caught?
(view spoiler)[ Then comes the conclusion.
You'll wonder why it wasn't completely obvious from the very beginning.
The hero does such a wonderful job of logically smashing the seemingly perfect alibi.
On the flight the grandfather, Andrew Crowther, dies.Then we jump back in time to watch as Andrew’s nephew Charles, worried about his failing business (Crofts uses the backdrop of the Great Slump in the 30s to great effect).
But given the plan and the way Andrew died, I wasn’t 100% sure Charles was responsible.
A lot of ground is gone over multiple times and I wished Crofts would move faster.The novel is like that Bruegel painting of the Fall of Icarus where the titular subject is a tiny figure in the background of an everyday scene: Crofts’ detective, Inspector Finch, is a minor walk-on in the lives of Charles, Peter and their community.
I have to admit I bought this largely for the cover.
I've been attracted to these British Library Crime Classics because they have such appealing covers.
But this one not only appealed to me because of the transportation allusion and the fact that the title reminds me of one of my favorite books Victoria 4:30 by Cecil Roberts.I wasn't disappointed.
It reminded me of the kind of logistics and planning one finds in a Nevil Shute novel.
This may not be everyone's thing, but I love that kind of thing.
As the novel opens, a retired, wealthy manufacturer Andrew Crowther, his son-in-law Peter Morley and Peter’s young daughter Rose are on their way to catch the 12.30 flight from Croydon to Paris.
When the plane comes to a standstill Andrew Crowther is found to be dead in his seat.So far, so conventional, an opening reminiscent of other Golden Age mysteries – gets the story off to an excellent start.
Then, in a flashback starting a few weeks before the death of Andrew Crowther, the viewpoint switches to that of his eventual murderer.
I received a copy of this title from the publisher via Netgalley for review.3.5 starsTen Second Synopsis:A tale of murder told from the point of view of the murderer, this book is an in-depth study of the carrying out of a "perfect" crime.I thoroughly enjoyed getting into this one, even if the “mystery” element of the murder-mystery equation was thoroughly absent.
Despite being a murderous murderer, Charles is quite a likable and ingenious bloke, with a real knack for malice aforethought, once he gets going.Some readers may find the story a tad repetitive.
In The 12:30 from Croydon we not only know whodunnit, we are following the murderer from before he even conceived the crime.Crofts was a founding member of The Detection Club, the venerable gathering of the best mystery writers whose rules for detective fiction still sound good to me.
For The 12:30 from Croydon, he was venturing into the psychological thriller genre, a new development in mystery fiction, revealing how Charles Swinburn came to the unwelcome conclusion that his uncle had to die and taking us through the meticulous planning and execution of that and yet another murder.I was surprised to like this book even more than Mystery in the Channel.
"The 12.30 from Croydon" is a suspense novel that was originally published in 1934 and is set in England.
While Inspector French is on the case, we don't hear the case from his perspective until the very end.
Like the criminal, we don't know where any mistakes were made or what clues the Inspector has found.
Will Inspector French settle on the right suspect?I liked the other characters and hoped they didn't get accused.
I didn't like or dislike the murderer.
Overall, I'd recommend this interesting, suspenseful "reverse mystery."I received an ebook review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
A very good read; it should remind readers of crime novels set in the 1930s that Agatha Christie wasn't the only writer with a great plot to hand. This builds to a surprising denouement...over cigars & whisky...the villain having been dispatched by pains-taking detective work and the tiny lacuna in the almost perfectly-executed murder of Uncle Andrew! It read very well indeed & sustained me through long days of restlessness over Christmas! Thanks to Maria & Lucy, my favourite librarians, for this little gem from their crowns!
True,the pace is somewhat slower, but the story, told from the murderer's perspective, is solid " golden age "
An enjoyable book and, as Dorothy L Sayers notes in her endorsement, and interesting experiment: a book which follows the investigation from the eyes of the criminal, not the detective.
Having never read any crime novel that was set later than probably the 1980’s except some Sherlock Holmes short stories, this series appealed to me and despite its uninspiring title, I decided to give this one a go.The initial crime occurs in the very first chapter and don’t let that first chapter put you off as the child who narrates it doesn’t appear again –thank heavens!
The bulk of the novel is narrated by the criminal from the very first stirrings of murderous intent, to the crime itself and beyond, we are thoroughly immersed in his mind and emotional state.In this way, the book is very different from most crime novels, as it is far more unusual to have the criminal as the main narrator than say, the lead detective.
You only have to go to another Crime Library Classic – Portrait of a Murderer – to hear me singing the praises of a book that is mostly told from the POV of the killer, and I was also impressed by some procedural episodes that spent more time on the victim’s family than average.Well…but if you do that you have to be really good to distract me from the fact that I’m not getting what I expected and wanted.
Interesting ...detection with a sense of doom. How to plan a murder (or not!). An enjoyable mystery told from the perspective of the murderer not the victim. He plots a perfect murder and then it all spirals out of control. Even at the end you read with interest wondering if his legal team can get him off...A worthwhile reprint
What first attracted me to "THE 12.30 FROM CROYDON" was the cover art.
On the cover is a teasingly attractive image of a 1930s fixed-gear airliner entering into the landing pattern a few feet above the Isle of Wight.
As advertised, this detective novel (which was originally published in 1934) "is an unconventional yet gripping story of intrigue, betrayal, obsession, justification, and self-delusion." Rather than a whodunit, "THE 12.30 FROM CROYDON" looks at a murder of a retired businessman on an airliner from the vantage point of the killer, whose motives and mindset he shares with the reader, trying all the while to keep one step ahead of the police and remain free and beyond suspicion.
Princess Fuzzypants here:Since I am a young cat, I am so glad that we can read the British Crime Classics, of which this is one.
It is fun to be transported back and to take part in a mystery.
There is little mystery in whodunit.
We know early in the piece both the whom, the why and the how.
What we do not know is whether he will get away with his crime.
Sometimes he thinks he will get away with it and other times he is convinced he will swing.
The style, of course, is the early 20th Century British Crime novels.
From that point onwards we see how Charles devised a plan and created an alibi that he thought would be perfect – and how it went wrong and how he was drawn into committing yet another murder.Inspector French appears later on in the book to explain Charles’ thoughts and actions, and how he broke his alibi, just as Poirot sums up his thoughts and methods of deduction in Agatha Christie’s books.The 12.30 from Croydon focuses on the psychology of the murderer and from that point of view I think it works well.
The first chapter gives us the impressions of a little girl, Rose Morley, as she is woken one night, and told to get ready to fly to France where her mother has been hurt in a motor accident.
The other members of her family are introduced and described, but it is Rose's eyes that we see through as they travel through London and out to Croydon where the thrilling 'plane is waiting for them.
In the next chapter the reader is taken back four weeks, and the psychological unraveling of the murder begins.It's a bold strategy to write a murder 'mystery' in which the murderer is quite clearly set before the reader from the outset.
Lets go with "of it's time" if you have ever read a book where the killer was known in advance then you have already read this book and it was probably written better.
It's not his usual style, it was his 15th book and written as a reaction to critics who said his books had become stale and formulaic, so he decided to go down the same route Berkeley Cox (Francis Iles) did with Malice Afterthought and didn't nail it.
It dragged on and on and on and was in sore need of a good editor, there were 10 chapters which could have been dealt with in 1 and been the better for it.
I enjoy reading some of these British classics but not so this one.
Felt it was too drawn out, or maybe I just don't like it when you are with the murderer right from the start.It's about a wealthy retired businessman who's nephew is struggling to keep the company going in a very hard economy.
However he is wanting to marry a wealthy women who's not up to marrying anyone who can not keep her in the fashion she is accustomed to, so he needs to do something and fast.
Murder the uncle!I received a copy of this book from Netgalley for an honest review.
This was a rather revolutionary book when it came out, I think. For most of the plot there is no doubt who the killer is, but only the exact details and whether he'll get away with it or not. All it will take is a cool head and deliberation, just as he showed in the planning and execution of the murder – but can he maintain it? It's well-written, gripping stuff – a fascinating look at the other side of the whodunnit. The usual disclaimer: I received this book via Netgalley for review.
Another great Freeman Willis Crofts novel!This time we know the murderer from before he commits the crime right up to the final chapter.A shift from FWC's previous novel, but very welcome non the less.Very highly recommended.I was given a digital copy by the publisher Poisoned Pen Press via Netgalley in return for an honest unbiased review.
3 1/2 as the ending was rather slow but good read over all.
The novel then moves back a few weeks as we watch his killer, his nephew Charles Swinburn, slowly come to the conclusion that Uncle Andrew has to die so that he can inherit enough money to continue his manufacturing company which has been badly hit by the general depression era slump and remain a man of substance which will allow him to woo Una with whom he has fallen in love but who is clear that only a wealthy man would interest her.
It isn't for me but I think if you like the genre you will find this novel fascinating, not just as an early entry but for the intricate planning and thought processes it portrays.
Some reviewers have found this an unsatisfactory approach, but it certainly worked for me; I enjoyed eavesdropping on the murderer's plans, all of which gave insight into his mind, making him a more rounded character than usually found in a Golden Age detective novel - and I do like a good character study.
I very much doubt the girl would have been able to distinguish the patch of mud on the wheel as the aircraft was about to take off, but overall the description was credible, consistent with a child's viewpoint and very enlightening.What I would mark the novel down slightly is the very variable tone.
First published in 1934, the mystery opens with a little girl giving her take on early plane travel, the 12:30 being a plane, not a train.
This reminded me of a Law and Order episode where a couple comes out of a restaurant and are arguing.
You are just getting interested in them when they trip over a body, and bye bye couple.
Neither plane or little girl is seen again.
We know he is the murderer and the book follows his desperation as he is about to lose his business during the Depression and lose the girl he has fallen for.
I think that since there was no one in this novel who was particularly likable (except Sandy, gotta have a soft spot for a Scottish engineer!) and maybe Peter, I wasn't really invested on a personal level with the resolution.
In fact, the lack of attachment to any of the characters is one of the reasons this novel felt like an intellectual exercise.
This seems a common characteristic of the male mystery writers of the Golden Age. The female writers seem to have more wit and personality in their characters, generally speaking.
The 12:30 From Croydon is told from the viewpoint of the murderer which makes it very different from most of the British Library Crime Classics.
It also makes it a bit disturbing.
He concocts what he believes to be a perfect crime and the reader follows him through every step of the ensuing drama.
The reader is pulled into Charles' life and reasoning and it is only at the end of the novel that you, and Charles, realize what mistakes he has made.
My only minor quibble is that the ending was a bit abrupt.I received a copy of this book from Netgalley in return for an honest review.
Find out at the start of chapter 2, and then follow the story from the murderer's perspective as he plots, schemes, commits and covers his tracks.
Crofts gives us a wonderful amount of detail to get lost in, as we try to spot the errors that will lead to the criminal's seemingly inevitable downfall.
His writing genius is particularly on display in the extended courtroom scene, as we join the murderer in puzzling over the question of how he was caught.
With "The 12.30 from Croydon," Crofts was experimenting with something new, and he pulled it off brilliantly.
