https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/343662.Daredevil
The first half of the arc, I would argue, is undeniably great–Frank Miller was born to write Daredevil, and the set-up of the story–which centers around the Kingpin finally learning Daredevil’s secret identity, and proceeding to make Matt Murdock’s life a complete and utter living hell–is sublimely done, especially as it’s narrated in that great, hard boiled voice that Miller nailed to perfection in the late 80s/early 90s.
Do I think it’s one of the great Frank Miller stories, up there with the likes of 300, Sin City, and Ronin?
Trang reviewing a comic ?!
ITS BEEN LIKE YEARS LOL Of course it had to beDaredevil.
Not any ordinary volumes.
This graphic novel is a must for any Daredevil Fans.
Although, it picks up wayy wayy after the incidents from Netflix's show so if you don't want to get spoiled.
Do not read this graphic novel hahaha.
A marvelous classic and having plunged into the Marvel Universe there are familiar faces that came back in this volume and different details referencing to other series from Marvel.
The action was amazing.
But what STOOD UP FOR ME WAS THE WRITING.
Trang Tran- Book Blogger http://bookidote.wordpress.com
The Best Daredevil story arc of them all!I remember reading these issues years ago when they were first published and it felt so good to re-read them in this most excellent collection. Miller's writing is fantastic. Matt Murdock goes thru hell and then redemption. I need to read this again in a few years. I never get tired of this story.
Not only my favorite comic book story (and I've read a few!) this seven issue run, in which the Kingpin of Crime discovers that his archenemy Daredevil is in fact the lawyer Matt Murdock, is a cantidate for my favorite work of fiction in any medium.
Miller (who can write pain like no one else in the industry) and Mazzuchelli (among the most realistic of all comic book artists) give us fight scenes that show Daredevil not as an unbeatable force for good who destroys five bad guys in a few panels of story, but as a man who who can bleed, who could die, and who feels (and fights for) a range of emotions from anger to protectiveness to self preservation.Perhaps the element of the story which stands next to its redemptive quality as most notable is the villain.
I can remember in 1980 when Frank Miller took over Daredevil.
Suddenly one of my favorite costumed crime-fighters had moved into the world of adult crime fiction - or so it seemed to me at the time.
Throughout the decade other characters would undergo the same treatment by Miller (Batman) and others, but Daredevil was one of the first.
In 1986 when the "Born Again" storyline took place I was in my senior year of high-school and hadn't picked up a comic-book in years.
However the following year I was in college and discovered that comics were changing.
I picked up the compilation of the "Born Again" storyline in 1988.
When I was younger I remember liking this story and then getting a little bored with it.
Daredevil at the time was my favorite comic book, and for seven issues, or seven months the story took a break so that Daredevil's life could be utterly destoryed.
I got a little bored and wanted the good stuff to come back, but that was only because seven months is a long time when you're twelve years old (or however old I was).
It *is* Frank Miller. But Daredevil is *NOT* Batman!
My Brief Bookshelf Overview: feels-realistic-or-credible, gave-up-before-finishing, grim, mature, steady-storytelling-style, unrealized-potentialOther Useful Reviews: Mike's reviewAdditional Notes: This collection contains  Daredevil  issues #226-233. Probable Rating (if I had finished this) : {3/5 stars}When drug addict Karen Page – also a former lover of Matt's – divulges Daredevil's secret identity to the Kingpin in exchange for a fix, Matt Murdock's whole life is turned upside down, and he s
: {3/5 stars}When drug addict Karen Page – also a former lover of Matt's – divulges Daredevil's secret identity to the Kingpin in exchange for a fix, Matt Murdock's whole life is turned upside down, and he starts to lose his grip on reality.
Perhaps if it took two issues (rather than one) for Kingpin to lay his trap, and to show more closely Matt's reactions to his changing circumstances, it would have been more believable for me.
And that's a shame, since – after skimming through the rest of the volume – it really looks like things pick up quite a bit by issue #231.
Born again es una historia de venganza, renacimiento y redención, con una estructura imitada mil veces en cómics posteriores, y que el propio Miller ha vuelto a emplear en sus cómics de batman,, en lobezno: honor, en sin city...La historia comienza con Karen Paige, la antigua novia de Matt Murdock, que viajó a los angeles para iniciar una carrera cinematográfica, pero todo terminó torciéndose y en la actualidad es una drogadicta...
como un buen fotógrafo sabe captar el momento adecuado en cada escena y nos sorprende página tras página con viñetas que quedarán impresas en nuestras mentes.En definitiva, un cómic que no debe faltar en cualquier colección de superhéroes, que no por ser de hace 30 años pierde su significado y que, aun siendo una historia dura deja lugar para la esperanza.
Nos encontramos con personajes que fueron o serán importantes para la vida de Murdock, personas que con una palabra podrían cambiarlo todo: y lo hacen.Como bien dice el título, Matt renace en alguien distinto pero mejor.
Toca fondo para convertirse en alguien que busca el bien para todos, o la mayoría.Fue una historia que me enganchó un montón y me impresionó aún más, me llevó hasta Hell's Kitchen para tener las más peligrosas aventuras e incluyeron a cierto personaje de Marvel que me encanta.
My NSFCCDP friend m.poulet suggested I get a little more up to speed on my classic comix and he strongly recommended Frank Miller’s Daredevil.
I remember the DD costume from glancing through comics as a kid, but never read the story and felt like a moron when I said to m.poulet, “Oh, so he’s BLIND!” No shit sherlock.
The story arc leads Matt nearly to insanity and despair before his epiphany and rebirth.
I won’t put in spoilers because perhaps some of my readers have not had the pleasure of this extreme classic in the genre, but there is a happy ending.
As if things weren't bad enough for our favourite hero dressed in a demon's suit, Kingpin now knows who Matt really is, and sets out to destroy Murdock's life.
Now, if you've read my previous reviews, you'll probably know that Imma start randomly talking about the art, then the story, then somehow awkwardly end the review.
Like all old times comic book art.
Though, it was executed well enough to make this fairly entertaining.All in all, Born Again is a comic book classic that DD fans should read.3/5 Stars.
I think when I originally read it we had no idea about the plot - that Karen Page, Daredevil's first soap opera love interest from the first 50 odd issues, divulged his secret identity as Matt Murdock.
It gives Matt Murdock a challenge he almost cannot rise above.One element struck a false note 30 years later, the character of Nuke in the last 2 chapters.
Miller was more liberal back then; I don't think the post 9/11 Miller would create the same character.
But then again, the post 9/11 Miller hasn't created a story as good as Born Again.
I just realized this is my only 5 star review for a superhero book.
Or something like that.
He's certainly one of my favourite cartoonists, which was solidified in his future work like Rubber Blankets and Asterios Polyp.
I read it immediately after reading Miller's original run on Daredevil.
Some of the criticism I've read states that the characters are one dimensional.
So, being apologetic here, I think reading the original run and a few of the preceding issues to this story arc fleshes out the characters.
A really well-executed and compelling story that stands on its own.
It's a small part, but the conflict between Steve's moral certainties and the sometimes questionable actions of the government he serves are brought very well).ETA: Also, I hadn't realized how much of an influence this story had on the later Daredevil stories by Bendis -- from the use of Ben Urich (who's the "Jim Gordon" everyman figure here -- to the tension about Matt's secret identity.

You would think the team behind Batman Year one would have done a good job with this, I thought this sucked. Read The Man Without Fear instead
4.5
Once again Miller "reboots" a character. This time he takes away everything that Matt Murdock has considered a safe haven. This is about his deconstruction and rebirth as Daredevil the blind superhero.Among the comics I own most certainly a little gem.
Din câte știu e o șansă ca în sezonul 3 să se abordeze povestea din acest volum, ceea ce nu m-ar deranja.Un lucru care îmi place la personajul Daredevil este faptul că nu are puteri extravagante, nu are puterea să altereze realitatea, nu poate zbura, nu este imun la gloanțe etc, are doar simțuri mult mai puternice decât ale oamenilor obișnuiți.
Mi-a plăcut destul de mult povestea, finalul este poate puțin abrupt, plus că deși îmi plac toate personajele din MCU aș fi preferat ca acest volum să rămână doar despre Daredevil deci aș fi preferat să nu apară Căpitanului America.
In a world where wealth, power, and influence happen high above and far away, the Kingpin can torture Matt Murdock as easily as he can pull the wings off a fly.
It makes for an interesting story, because Matt Murdock is quickly destroyed, but Daredevil is a survivor.
The slow build of the story and the utter destruction of Murdock is very well told.
Classics can also be hugely problematic, and this one is no exception.
Once again, I deeply respect Miller's writing while being hugely skeptical about his philosophical conclusions.

When pushed to the very edge and even beyond, do you still hold on to your ideal?
Do you still show up to do good when essentially entire world turns against you overnight?One of the best comic-book stories ever.
Frank Miller is a masterful story teller and you feel the anguish of Daredevil and also get to see his story and his tribulations through multiple characters' POVs, I especially liked Kingpin.
(view spoiler)[ The brief Avengers appearance and Cap's role are icing on the cake  (hide spoiler)]I re-read it after knowing the Daredevil Season 3 would be based on this.
Still as captivating as the first read.
Un comic espectacular del gran Frank Miller, donde el protagonista es Matt Murdock y no Daredevil. Sin duda alguna es una lectura obligatoria para quienes disfrutamos de los comics.
"A man without hope is a man without fear."
This is not your average Marvel comic. The darkly inked depictions of NYC in the eighties are great as well as the tasteful Roman Catholic iconography. It's full of despair and gritty faces and downtrodden characters. It's an era we are heading back into with the new kingpins in the oval office. Nuke is a great character who refreshingly amerikkkan as the anti-Captain America although the story almost seems to crowded when he enters. Also, the story wraps up too quickly.
For instance, without it, you wouldn't have had Jeph Loeb, whose original comic book effort in the pages of a Challengers of the Unknown mini-series is directly inspired by Miller's style as featured in Born Again.
Here's a little deconstruction for you: Miller later becomes known for his Sin City comics, which become movies, which allows him to make his own movie, The Spirit, based on a classic pulp hero, whose title character is closely connected to the city he protects.
Loeb's approach to Challengers of the Unknown is exactly like Andy Helfer's had been in the pages of The Shadow, another pulp character.
I knew of Daredevil before, from that disaster of a movie, but only after Netflix's show I got interested in Daredevil more.This story arc follows Matt Murdock as his life falls apart because of Kingpin who learns about his identity.
The first part of the story I enjoyed immensely, but somewhere in the last third somehow everything started to fall apart.
Not my favorite, but still amazing.I'd love to say I could recommend this if you want to start reading Daredevil, but I just don't know.
I had to root through boxes to find my old comics, but sure enough this Frank Miller-written story holds up despite the obvious time-stamp of 1986, the old-school pen & ink art, and an antiquated moral editing for mass consumption back then.
For me, I was 13 years old when this storyline hit the stands and for the Daredevil title, it happens in issues #227-233, and is basically a wonderful reinvention of the hero at a time when it was most likely well needed.
Konečně v UKK vyšlo i tohle poměrně povedené a zásadní dílo Franka Millera.
Občas si pokládám otázku, jak je možné že Bendis, Miller i Brubaker psali Daredevila každý úplně jinak, a přitom stejně.
Respektive to stejně nakonec dalo tu správnou pozici noiru, špinavého superhrdinství a hrdiny, který se vždy nechá zlomit jen proto aby vstal.
Miller si nebere servítky a tahle poměrně temná kapitola Murdockova života začíná stejně temně jako skončí.
Ale nebyl by to Miller aby to nemělo háček.Jsem rád že jsem si to mohl přečíst v češtině.
Doufám že díky UKK DD najde svoje další čtenáře.
