https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1294375.Vera
Having read, and loved The Enchanted April by this author, I decided to read another of her books, and chose Vera....It couldn't have been more different......This is a dark and disturbing story of how a lovely young woman is drawn into a nightmare situation which everyone, including the reader, can see is very wrong.It's a classic example of how love is sometimes blind.As the menace grows with every page it becomes hard not to dread the outcomeIf I'd been given this book to read without knowing who the author was, I'd have sworn it was Daphne du Maurier
He organises her Father's funeral, gives her the support she needs and manages to manipulate and dominate with his show of care and protection.Wemyss is self-absorbed, childish and greatly troubled.
He manages to hide his true character from Lucy and she is blinded in her growing love for her new saviour.
Lucy's new life begins to crumble.
She wakes up to Wemyss as his temperament swings between energy, talk and attention to critical silence, coldness and sulking.
Although the novel tackles some very disturbing issues, she shows sensitivity and writes with a light, thoughtful style.
This is a terrific, chilling portrait of a controlling, bullying monster, the gentle innocent he marries and will probably destroy, and her only hope, all but extinguished by the end of the book - her aunt.Such men still live amongst us, though fortunately there is more help available for their victims if they are able to escape the tyranny, than was the case back in 1920.The psychology seems to me to be spot on, and as von Arnim was using her second husband as the model, she had experienced the modus operandi at first hand.
Luckily she was able to extract herself from the marriage.
Elizabeth von Arnim's wit and, for lack of a better word, snark practically leap off the page of this novel that centres around one of the most dysfunctional relationships ever..When Lucy Entwhistle's father dies she is at a loss having spent her 22 years as his companion and caregiver; the very day of his death, Everard Wemyss walks into her life and thus the manipulation and power plays begin.
I was cheering her on when she called Wemyss out on his controlling bullshit and sinister 'love' for Lucy..I think I would recommend this one for fans of du Maurier's Rebecca, because although the dark and brooding atmosphere isn't as powerful, von Arnim shares the same delightful ambiguity and mystery as a du Maurier novel!
Had never heard of this novel before although I had read another book by the author which I enjoyed very much.
This is the story of a very young Lucy Erstwhistle and her marriage to the manipulative and controlling Everard Wemyss who is many years her senior.
I didn't emphasise with or like either character but I could appreciate the depiction of the characters, the gothic tones of the setting and the skill of the author to write such a compelling work.The ending as some reviewers have mentioned is abrupt and ambiguous.
It's up to the reader to form their own opinion as to the future success of Lucy and Everard's marriage.
Now that I have read it, I think "sex and violence" is a bit lurid, but it left a deep impression on me nonetheless and I bow my head to von Arnim for creating this masterpiece.
At least that is what Lucy thinks.
As a reader we quickly see Wemyss for what he is - not a grieving widower, but a narcissistic, obsessive-compulsive bully, and all we can do is watch Lucy walk towards her doom, namely her marriage to him.Von Arnim gives us such a realistic account of emotional abuse that it was hard for me to take at times.
Madre mía.. menudo lunático egocéntrico voluble.
As depressing as this book is, there's something so comforting in Von Arnim's clear, sweet authorial voice. She writes with such poignant simplicity, the truth just rings out. I adore her.
Only with the premise that it inspired Daphne du Maurier to write "Rebecca" which I read earlier this year and quite enjoyed.I can see where the inspiration came form but "Vera" is very much darker and more disturbing.
When in "Rebecca" the terror came from the slightly unnatural and ghostly atmosphere, in "Vera" the sheer terror comes from the relationship between the young Lucy and her older husband Wemyss.
It is text-book emotional abuse and sickeningly controlling relationship.
And Lucy is a classic little lamb who keeps finding excuses for the abuse and rationalises it.
A good read.
First published in 1921 this is Elizabeth Von Arnim's darkest novel based on her own disastrous seco
Vera of this novel has already died and was Mr Wemyss first wife.It reminds me of Rebacca by Daphne Du Maurier.This is a forceful study of the power of men in marriage, and the weakness of women when they love.I loved it.
This is little gem. A subtle black comedy/psychological study, it deals with the same situation as DuMaurier's Rebecca, but first and better.
Von Arnim has painted an agonizingly graphic portrait of verbal abuse.
The Goodreads blurb says this book is a darkly comic story; I think that descriptor is misleading and makes light of the main relationship in the novel.
A lot of the humor comes at the expense of the abuser, who doesn't realize what a jackass he is by his need to control every little thing.
I have now read several of Von Arnim's works.
This one will stay with me the longest.NOTE: I listened to the Librivox recording and I am 95% sure that the reader is actor Wyatt Cenac.
It is easy to see why poor Vera defenestrated herself. However, it would have been better for all concerned if she had just killed Wemyss. Good lord.
This was mostly because of the narration, because Von Arnim switches POVs in a quick, unexpected and unsystematic way - the result was a bit chaotic to me, I was expecting a more darkly-powerful and captivating read.After the marriage, Lucy and Wemyss come back to his country house, The Willows, where his former wife Vera accidentally died - but was it really an accident?
I really liked how Miss Entwhistle surprisingly reveals herself as a very original character.This is a very interesting read indeed, even if it hasn't captivated me as I expected.
I kept waiting for the silly little heroine to come to her senses and stand up to Wemyss.
Gradually, it occurred to me that von Arnim was bringing in elements of her own life, and her first marriage, to the man she "affectionately" referred as " the man of wrath.
" Overall, a hard book to read, but we'll worth it for a glimpse into the world of early 20th century women.
She never makes an appearance, having died before the book opens.
Her death was either an accident or suicide to which she was driven by her life with Wemyss.
You can listen to my podcast about this book:https://www.podomatic.com/podcasts/he...
Con questo romanzo l'autrice dipinge un quadro matrimoniale davvero cinico, le scene che vedono protagonisti Everard e la servitù sono qualcosa di memorabile, c'è una grande maestria nell'usare l'ironia e la sua penna non delude mai, il libro è scritto benissimo come tutti gli altri letti in precedenza ma, forse condizionata anche dalla lettura fresca fresca di Rebecca il romanzo purtroppo non regge il confronto; a concludere il tutto c'è un finale davvero deludente da cui personalmente mi sarei aspettata di più.
What at first appears to be a different and quirky romance turns out to be an indictment of egoism and dominance in relationships.Opening: When the doctor had gone, and the two women from the village he had been waiting for were upstairs shut in with her dead father, Lucy went out into the garden and stood leaning on the gate staring at the sea.Her father had died at nine o'clock that morning, and it was now twelve.
Sound seemed to have gone to sleep.Lucy stood staring at the sea, her face as empty of expression as the bright blank world before her.
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.Opening lines:When the doctor had gone, and the two women from the village he had been waiting for were upstairs shut in with her dead father, Lucy went out into the garden and stood leaning on the gate staring at the sea.
I am beginning to think I don't really like von Arnim. Loved THE ENCHANTED APRILFound LOVE interesting.Was bored by ELIZABETH AND HER GERMAN GARDENDidn't finish THE CARAVANERSI think I am done with her until the world runs out of good things to read.
Ho scoperto la Von Armin solo da qualche anno ed è un’autrice che apprezzo moltissimo. E’ universalmente noto che il presente valse a Daphne Du Maurier un'accusa di plagio. Con il suo "Rebecca" i punti in comune indubbiamente si notano: dal titolo (che in entrambi è il nome della prima moglie del protagonista) alla trama ed il suo parziale svolgimento.  Tuttavia, Vera, scritto nel 1921 - davvero sorprendente ed ironico, si legge rapidamente nonostante non sia al livello di altri lavori della Armin (ne di Rebecca della Du Maurier), catapultando il lettore in atmosfere quasi “filmiche” dell'epoca.
I loved this book.
I love any book that gives insights into human nature and this certainly does.
No. He's definitely mentally unstable.An example of his OCD is that he insists the servants beat the dinner gong for exactly two and a half minutes and times them doing it, even if everyone has long arrived for dinner.
Here is just one of my favourites:"The books people read - was there anything more revealing?"
This is a shortish novel, and definitely worth the time to read if you help people who are in abusive relationships.
The author, who H.G. Wells considered a strong thinker, provides good insight into the psychology of the person who is being controlling and abusive, as well as the person who is able to talk herself into continuing the relationship.
Besides these people, most of the other characters are servants.
There are some good descriptions of place and time, but the focus is mostly on the inner workings of the characters.
The book is described as dark, but it was fascinating rather than depressing. It is a novel about character, rather than plot, and does that so well. I must say I did find the ending sudden and frustrating, but maybe that echoes the themes of the book? This was the first Von Arnim I have read, but her other books have been on my to-be-read list for a while. Apparently Rebecca is based on this? May just read Rebecca next.
Can't imagine any book embodying classic narcissist behavior more brilliantly. A delightful cautionary tale for codependents!
This darkly realistic portrayal of a controlling marriage still rings so true today. The way Elizabeth von Arnim writes draws you deeper and deeper into the story which gradually darkens your soul and hardens it for the worst before tantalizingly drawing you to it's conclusion.
Vera is a disguised thriller, set in the decorations of a Victorian / Edwardian novel. The conflict it explores, or rather exploits, is basically the same as in Meredith's The Egoist: a girl finds herself engaged to a perfectly selfish man. The reader follows the course of the engagement, almost certain that, like Clara Middleton, Lucy Entwhistle will sooner or later see through her fiancé and escape before it is too late. As the novel nears the end, and nothing happens, a sensation of vertigo grows, as acute as it is unexpected.
On the day that Lucy Entwhistle's father dies she meets forty five year old Everard Wemyss apparently terribly bereaved himself, and in need of some human contact and someone to talk to.
Even the arrival of her beloved maiden aunt Miss Entwhistle does nothing to lessen the hold that Wemyss is already beginning to have over Lucy.
Taking pride of place at the funeral of her father, a man he never knew, only a fortnight after his own wife's death, Wemyss eases his way in to their lives.
The marriage takes place, quickly, only a few short months after Vera's death at their home The Willows.
(hide spoiler)] And the way he thinks he is always right!
I loved Lucy (view spoiler)[ even if I wanted her to defy Wemyss way more, to stand up for what she thinks, and to put forward her own choices.
(view spoiler)[ The reader already knows that Aunt Dot is right: Lucy won't last as long as Vera, she will die way sooner, and Wemyss will be able to go on, looking for a new "Little Love"!
By the way, I think Vera was killed, and not that she committed suicide; it is clear in Wemyss' last thoughts, isn't it?
