https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/465772.The_Quick_and_the_Dead
Shakespeare this ain't, but boy howdy The Quick and the Dead is a damn good time!Yeah, dialogue is often stilted and the character of Con Vallian sometimes comes off as a deus ex machina kind of guardian angel. However, there's still a lot to like here, such as some of the characters' development as the book progresses. A strong female is always a pleasant addition to westerns. The story's pacing is good with a solid amount of action, balanced with timely introspection. For such a short book, Louis L'Amour manages to pack in plenty of punch. Recommended for western fans!
If you like classic western stories, then you know the work of Louis L'Amour. Need I say more?
I picked this up to read as part of a release challenge.
The "I DARE YOU; A Read-and-Release Challenge with a Twist" proposed by gnissorckoob.
Then he stopped for a cup of coffee at a stranger's campfire and found himself guiding a family of greenhorns across the prairie- fighting a pack of rustlers on one hand and some mighty unpredictable Indians on the other!I kept seeing Clint Eastwood as Con Vallian, as I read- and found myself trying to cast other hollywooders in the various roles.
Classic western - pitch perfect and fits the paradigm. L’Amour is an American treasure.
This is only the second Louis L'Amour book I've ever read.
It's a good story and I feel like I'm living and riding on the plains.
Duncan and Susanna McKaskel, with their son Tom are greenhorns, moving out West to farm and tired of City life.When Con stumbles on them, he can't ride off and leave them.
He ends up teaching them skills to survive in the harsh land of the West, to escape a hornet's nest they stumble in a ram shack town.
It's a race across the plains, a good vs.
There isn't a better western author who ever lived than Louis L'amour and this book is one of his prime examples of gritty, action packed, make-you-think stories. L'amour writes with such eloquence that you find yourself taken back to the time and place the story is set in, and when you finish the book, wish you really did live in the era.
A quick and easy read, one of my favorite books from Louis L'Amour.
It's a classic, has the legendary good verse evil theme, that the Western genre is known for and it's readers crave.
He ends up teaching them skills to survive in the harsh land of the West, to escape a hornet's nest they stumble in a ram shack town.
It's a race across the plains, a good verse evil chase, that see's a family of greenhorns become hardy season veterans and find the perfect homestead.
Definitely this is one that will be reread, time and time again and you can't say that about every book.
The short novel starts at a furious pace and doesn’t let up. Tells the story of the McKaskel family’s progression from victimized easterners into self-sufficient pioneers, aided by an experienced and fearsome wanderer, waged in a deadly struggle against a gang of vicious outlaws. Plenty of action and a no-frills plot make this one a real page-turner.
It is a little like watching a TV show that you know will have just enough action and storyline to keep your interest.
There was nothing powerful or terribly thought provoking about this book but it was something to do for those of us who don't have TV and would occasionally just like some diversion that is pretty clean.The most thought it provoked was about the pioneers who came out and settled this land.
It is also interesting to think of what extent people in our society behave because there is law.
But then, I wasn't going to over think this novel...
This is the first Western book I've read & I was surprised how much I liked it! I had been looking over the bookshelves at Goodwill and saw this baby. I picked it up because I knew my grandpa Jack enjoyed listening to Louis L'amour audio books when he could not see well enough to read. I think I'll go back for more.
excellent book and excellent movie
A pretty taut little tale -- a small-cast closed-room drama, except in a very, very large room. Well told. Much better than I expected.
Awesome book. Louis L'amour is a master story teller of the western frontier.
My book group did westerns this month, so I just picked from what the library had available on audio at the last minute.
It was fun.
I'd never read a western, and I can't say I'll make westerns a regular part of my literary diet, but it was fun.
I've seen enough westerns on screen to imagine how everyone and everything would look.
Heh...I just looked it up, and the film version was made in 1987.
I was imagining something 1950s-era in black and white.
The book want even written till 1973.
Swoon worthy, I suppose but, while I liked the character, the way he was written got on my nerves rather quickly.Louis L'Amour, at least in this novel, was all about telling the story, and very little about showing it.
Though, in the end, that was probably a good thing the novel could have turned out down right gory considering that (in the manner of most horror/thrillers) several characters become The Dead.My last complaint is the fact that there was a bit of a plot hole in the novel.
Another great western from L'Amour!This one, although written with a similar style with strong, courageous, manly-men standing firm against hardship and injustice, and intelligent yet feminine women who stand beside them, this one has a slight twist in plot that runs a new line compared to other L'Amour books.In this one, L'Amour builds a tension between the hero, Con Vallian, and the heroine, Suzanna, who happens to be another man's wife.
Yet L'Amour develops this tension artfully, and tastefully, and the hero remains a gentleman (if that word quite applies here) and the heroine, a lady.
Duncan McKaskel is an educated man, attempting to move his wife, Susanna, and his son, Tom, along with all of their personal possessions, from the east, to the west side of America in search of a new and promising life.
This is my third or fourth book by the famed Western author and it never seizes to amaze me at how well we can craft a simple, short and engaging tale of the Wild West.He was no wordsmith, but he didn't need to be.
He was able to create believable characters and believable situations of America's past that brings the "cowboy and Indians" tales to life and that is why he is at the very top of this genre.
Another good book, even if Susanna drove me batty when she got mad at Vallain, the one man keeping her and her family alive. Lady, you're an idiot to worry about him one minute, then yell at him for doing something he knows better than you when he shows back up. Okay, tirade aside, I enjoyed this book, even as the ending proved slightly confusing.
plowed through it, kept my attention straight through. The wording isn't flowery, there is defiantly an air of experience speaking in the description of the land, time period and survival skills. I think I'll be reading some more Louis L'Amour in the near future.
A quick, enjoyable, adventurous read. Everything that you could ask for from a western.
After moving west, Duncan McKaskel has his life saved by a stranger named Con Vallain to save his life. But how is Duncan's wife involved? Another good story from a master story teller.
Eager to remedy this deficiency, (who am I to think myself broadly-read otherwise?) I picked up the first one to share the name of a movie I’ve seen, and the author pic on the back sold me.The Quick and the Dead is about the journey of the McKaskels out West, in search of a better life.
It wasn’t a life-altering read by any means, but it was reasonably well-paced and exciting enough, varying the action well between the pursuit by the gang, Con’s sneaky “evening-the-odds” skirmishes alongside this, good old fashioned shoot-outs, and enough muted moments to help us recover enough to properly appreciate the next bits of action.Con’s reasons for getting involved never fully get explained, which isn’t a problem.
Let me start by saying this: The hero's name in this book is Con Vallian. Yes, " Con Vallian "!In my books, a story where the protagonist's name is that epic gets you four stars immediately.The rest of the book fits with L'Amour perfectly. We've got a group of baddies, a desperate young lady, and our hero who is really good with a six-shooter. The uncommon element in The Quick and the Dead for me, was the development of Susanna's family from greenhorns to seasoned (and lethal) outdoorsmen. I pul
Let me start by saying this: The hero's name in this book is Con Vallian.
We've got a group of baddies, a desperate young lady, and our hero who is really good with a six-shooter.
I pulled back a star because Susanna, our desperate damsel, was portrayed a bit over-the-top in her beauty, allure and naiveté for my tastes.
Two beauty quotes from the book tells you it's totally L'Amour:“I wonder why it is the man who pleads for mercy never gives it.” “Out here you better have a gun, and a gun in the wagon ain't good for nothin'.
I have hardly read any classics, so this book was a totally new experience for me.
I liked the story line, the characters though were something too much new for me, yet they were likable.
Duncan McKaskel has a beautiful wife, Susanna and a 12 year old son, Tom. They are moving out to west, to a land where there are no laws and plenty of violence.
He must protect both, though he hardly possesses any wealth at all, but how would he convince people if they fire bullets without letting him speak.
There is one person, Con Vallian who can and will protect Duncan and his family.
The book I read is called “The quick and The Dead” by Louis L’Amour.
The setting of this book is in the untamed frontier.
The books is about a man who moved his family to the untamed frontier.
When he moves there he has to save his family from a gang of outlaws.
This is when the book is coming to a end.
I think this was a good book.
The type of readers that would like this book are those whom like cowboys.
And whole like the whole Wild West theme or people that like action books.
I am a huge Little House series fan so for me, the moving west and trying to make it aspect is fascinating.
It's the equivalent of watching an hour long movie.
Not a two hour movie that would involve more in depth character development and but a little bit more than a 30 minute fluff show (but not much).
If your not into that, probably not a good book for you.
I want to give the Sackett book a chance still though.
I think that one is a little more novel like, where this one is almost a short story (or could be).
They’re running from a small gang that are trying to kill them.
Then there's a guy who helps them.
The guy who helps them is named Con Vallian.
He is a good guy who helps even knowing it can kill him.
This is a good book to read if you like western books or movies.
There’s a big difference between the movie and the book.
A lot of scenes from the book are missing from the movie.
Anybody any age would like this book if they like western themes.
I read this for the local library's reading challenge, one item of which was to read a book in a genre that was new to you.
Since I had moved west a few months ago and was largely unfamiliar with Westerns--save for Cormac McCarthy's "The Road," if that even counts--I picked this book.
This wasn't a bad book, and there were parts I enjoyed, however I wanted more to the descriptions of the sights and sounds.
His books are easy to read and there is a good amount of action, I just didn't care much for his style.
Another excellent story which could be easily adapted to the movies. This one is about a family (mom, dad and young son) traveling to the west with all of their possessions in a wagon. In passing thru a small spot in the road the toughies there decide that they must have something valuable in that wagon, and they set out in pursuit. Along comes a good samaritan who proceeds to help this green family by not only sharing his good advice but also taking an active part in their protection. A nice one.
I read this book as I was finishing Red Dead Redemption 2 because I wanted the adventure to continue. It did the trick.The hero, Con Vallain, is a good guy, but keeps disappearing and you kind of think maybe he's just checking in on the family to find out if the husband got killed by bandits so he can move in on the wife. I guess that's better than the villain who plans just to kill the husband himself.
