https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33290383-let-it-snow
I wanted to like it more, but I guess I am not that adventurous, because I kept thinking that the characters were such massive idiots, but their idiotic actions were the only thing that created a plot.
Her main character was a self-absorbed whiny brat and I was stuck in her first person pea brained narrative for the entire thing.
The entire thing was, admittedly, about the fact that she was a self-absorbed whiny brat and everyone was calling her on that fact, but her supposed transformation was utterly ridiculous.
Read during my holiday 24-hour readathon, #readathonbyzoe! Watch the vlog here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KcLPp...
Re-read in December 2015*3.5/5*I still really enjoyed this, but just not quite as much as the first time around. However, I am really glad that I read it again because it got me in the holiday spirit! Also, in finishing this book, I completed the Popsugar 2015 reading challenge! FUN FUN FUNFirst read in December 2012AHHHHH SO CUTE AND FLUFFY AND WONDERFUL. AHH. My favorite story was definitely the second one, John's, BUT I LOVED THEM ALL.
I've been meaning to read this for FOREVER and I'm glad I finally did. It's the depths of winter here in Canada so the snowy theme came at the perfect time. While I enjoyed it and found the stories generally exciting enough to keep reading, I didn't fall in love with any characters, any settings, any stories. Here's my review of it: https://www.patreon.com/posts/4375745!
To escape all the chaos, Jubilee gets off the train and treks across the road to a Waffle House.
They are enjoying themselves until they get a call from a friend that works at Waffle House saying that they absolutely have to get there because there is a group of fifteen cheerleaders stuck there for the night.
So Tobin and his friends begin a crazy night trying to get to the Waffle House in the blizzard.
She has been dating her boyfriend, Jeb for exactly one year on Christmas Eve. But they have been having problems.
Well that was stinkin' adorable
Here's five reasons why Let it Snow is sentenced to a one star rating.But first, it must be acknowledged that I did not suffer this re-read alone but was assisted by the traitor,   Offence #1: Self deprecating main character I'm not saying everybody has to be confident and perfect all the time. No, I'm saying a well written character should have a personality that extends further than feeling sorry for your name all the time. The first story starts with about three paragraphs of rambling about h
No, I'm saying a well written character should have a personality that extends further than feeling sorry for your name all the time.
The pursuit of cheerleaders."The story summed up in three basic points:a) 3 typical hormone driven male charactersb) 14 hot cheerleaders waiting for them (because what else would they want to do, apart from make out with idiots with twister in the middle of the biggest storm in 50 years?)c) The Duke, who's not like other girlsWhat more would anybody ever want in a story?The Duke was just normal: she liked to joke around and talk about movies.
Average male guy who talks about nothing but sex and girls in bikinis (JP)4.
Offence #4: Let's have an adventure at 3 am because that's what teenagers do!
In fact, the only thing missing for my perfect reading experience was the fireplace ;).I don’t want to give too much away about the stories themselves because I think it is best to go into this book unprepared and let yourself be surprised.
I liked all three stories, but The Jubilee Express and A Cheertastic Christmas Miracle were slightly better than the last one, The Patron Saint of Pigs.
Although the cute teacup pig almost made up for it … All in all, this short story collection is perfect for you if you are looking for a light and fun Christmas read.
Half of me wants to scream WORST BOOK EVER.
The other half is thinking: John Green, you absolute motherfucking genius.
It killed my brain cells, I swear it did.
The John Green one was delightful, however.
And the last one was yet another over-cheesy-brain-cell-murder-fest.
I did like how it all came together at the end, but I must say that if it wasn't for the festive season [and this being my friend's book], I'd offer it up as a sacrifice to the gods of good literature, and maybe some people who've run out of scrap paper.The two stars are only for you John Green.
“I may have been a complete lunatic, but I was a complete lunatic with manners.” It was a lot of fun! Liked the character development. I just expected a little more, but I still enjoyed this.
I cheated on another holiday themed short story collection to read this one.
The three not-so-short stories in this book are loosely interconnected.
She's coming to realize that if she wants a Christmas miracle, she needs to change things about herself.All the stories are cute and humorous.
I liked the first story the best and could have easily read an entire book with just Jubilee and Stuart.
The second story grew on me.
That said, this is the perfect Christmas guilty pleasure read, and I could see myself coming back to it every year.
This is so super cute!!!I love all of the stories and it's great how they all come together in the end!! Such a perfect Christmas book :D
Uno de lxs autorxs es el conocidísimo y famosísimo John Green, razón por la que quise leerlos, y las otras dos autoras son Mauren Johnson, quien también es conocida y tiene una larga carrera en el mundo de las letras; y Lauren Myracle, de la que tengo menos información y a la que ni siquiera conocía cuando comencé a leer los relatos.Es obvio que Noches Blancas será leído y comprado por John Green.
Pero sea como sea no me declaro fan incondicional del autor, y de hecho, el relato que más me ha gustado de los tres no ha sido el suyo sino el de Maureen Johnson.
It was nice to see all the characters from all three stories come together, but I'm betting this would be a stronger read had the order of storytelling had been reversed.The appearance of Johnson and Green's characters throughout Myracle's story were the only parts of "Patron Saint of Pigs" that I didn't mind...
Under Myracle's control, characters I liked and that, when written by Johnson and Green seem like actual people, sounded like bad acting.
They write characters that sound like people I know and want to hang out with.
Johnson, in particular, was laugh out loud funny even and Green made something really fun happen with a car for the third time (or possibly fourth, but I haven't read 
OUR LAST Buddy Read (5/5) for 2016 and  my very first reread  with, Praya  ♡♡♡  i'm sorry, please still be my friend  Aaaaaaand, this is my 230th book of the year!!!
♡♡♡♡ I’ve always been extremely hesitant to reread books for one very obvious reason; right now, all my fears and worries have come true.
This winter-themed-holiday book connects the stories of three separate characters who are all facing separate dilemmas and giving them their happy endings.
I literally just skimmed through the last story cause I was  not  having any of it.
The stories start with a train being stopped on the tracks in a snowstorm, so a lot of the book's characters hop off and head over to a diner in the nearby town.
The two other stories treated cheerleaders with a bit of background exasperation, but the incessant cheerleader-bashing from John Green's counterculture girl (along with the obsession from the obnoxious guy friend) were overkill.
The ending wrapped all of the stories up pretty well but I was kind of over everything at this point.So the first story was a cute YA holiday romance and the other two stories were fun because they added to the familiar setting & snowstorm.
In this 117 page story, you find likable, interesting, real characters submerged into a plot that is sweet, funny, cheesy, just a little cliché, yet totally likable.
In fact, that totally gorgeous guy has a girlfriend who turns up later in the book.
Let’s get a taste of what the beginning of this story is like.
Oh, and remember the totally gorgeous guy at the beginning of the review?
2)	The story makes it seem okay to cheat on someone if you apologize profusely and feel sorry for yourself afterwards.
Ha, this is the protagonist from story one!" The stories are set at the same time: Christmas Eve - meaning, that possibly all three plots are happening simultaneously and touch here and there - although they have been written by different people.
I simply love the idea and look forward to find out, who the last main character (story by Lauen Myracle) will be (maybe gentle Jeb with his broken mobile phone lost in a snow storm?) and how things will work out in the Waffle House in Gracetown.
The third story is about Jeb and Addie and contains an end that ties all loose strands.
I liked the first story best, though.P.S.
Very cute. The first story was definitely my favourite!
This book was absolutely perfect!
Honestly, one of my favourite books ever, even if it is a Christmas book!
I loved every single story SO much:The Jubilee express by Maureen Johnson: 5 starsA Cheertastic Christmas miracle by John Green: 4 stars The patron saint of pigs by Lauren Myracle: 5 starsJust pick up this book if you haven't already, it was amazing!
I also absolutely loved how all the stories intertwined together at the end, it was so well done!It made me smile so many times and would be a great book for breaking a reading slump or putting you in a great mood!
To be fair, these three stories should be rated separately. The Jubilee Express 4.5 ⭐'s - A fun and quirky read with very like able characters. A Cheertastic Christmas Miracle 4 ⭐'s - I expected to like John Green's story the best because well, he's John Green! I loved how adventurous this story was but it came off a little forced and the characters annoying at times. The Patron Saint of Pigs 2 ⭐'s - I found myself mostly skimming through this one because the main character was whiny and self ab
To be fair, these three stories should be rated separately.
The Jubilee Express 4.5 ⭐️'s - A fun and quirky read with very like able characters.
A Cheertastic Christmas Miracle 4 ⭐️'s - I expected to like John Green's story the best because well, he's John Green!
I loved how adventurous this story was but it came off a little forced and the characters annoying at times.
Her friends were also equally annoying.
The only thing I liked about this story was how all three of the stories came together at the end.
Perfect for the holidays if you ask me, when everyone's so busy they don't have time to actually read.;)*Review to come!*-------------------------------------------------------------------------------Okay, let's start by saying that I am that person who starts listening to Christmas music in November.
I didn't enjoy it as much as the Maureen Johnson one, but I was pleased by the ending.Take three friends (two boys and a girl) marathoning the James Bond movies when a fourth friend working the night shift at Waffle House calls them saying it's URGENT.
Just what I was hoping for!!But there was definitely lots of cringe.
And SO MUCH CHEESE!!But really, I' don't really mind because I live for trash like this 🙃The first story was definitely my favourite one.
Though I loved them all, I thought that Jubilee & Stuart were my favourite couple.The last story wasn't quite my thing, as I was not at all a fan of Addie, but it wasn't a bad story and I still enjoyed it.I liked how the stories connected, but it did feel a bit choppy at times.Overall, loved it, super cute, would recommend!
Pros: It was cute, like it promised.
It felt like I was just thrust into different stories and told so so much about the characters and their lives.
Or in the case of John Green’s story, I was just thrust in the middle of a friend group who kept shouting inside jokes at each other.
I didn’t understand anything, and I didn’t really enjoy it.In Conclusion: I think if each of these stories had been their own book, and had time to work with all the characters and plots, I would have enjoyed them.
Muy bueno, unas historias super tiernas de navidad. La mejor fue la de Maureen Johnson, es la más linda en mi opinión.Reseña completa en Gracias a los libros.PD: Leí este libro mientras escuchaba un playlist de canciones de navidad, fue una de las mejores decisiones que tomé :)
I think John Green's story was my least favourite, followed by Lauren Myracle's.
Maureen Johnson's was by far my favourite, even though it was still nothing special.
Part of this could be that I don't like short stories, and I would've loved this to be done as one full-length novel with the chapters switching between characters.
Also, the name choices were just not my favourite.
The parts I liked best of all were the Starbucks parts.
As a Starbucks partner, it was cool to see how the opening process has changed over the years and the differences between Canadian and American stores.
x3 ReRead: December 16, 2017Still ADORE the first story so much !!
Loved how these intertwined together.I did notice a lot of problems with Green's story though, just certain offensive comments were made.
The last story was kind of annoying to be honest...
Story one was by far the best though!I would actually lower my original rating to a 3.75 or a 3.5 stars as opposed to the 4 stars I originally gave it.
------------------------------------------------------------------------x2 Reread: I also re-read this in 2016 but GoodReads is being difficult atm.------------------------------------------------------------------------Reread: December 18, 2015  4 stars  ...
CONS:  -The last story was a little to dramatic and our main character was kind of annoying-------------------------------------------------------------------First read: Feburary 2015
Looking for Alaska is popular with my students, and I've enjoyed everything I've read by John Green, so I bought this for my classroom library.The first story was pretty good: girl-meets-boy-in-a-blizzard.
The boy was very sweet.
I would definitely seek out more of Maureen Johnson's work for my classroom.The John Green story was familiar: nerdy guy's adventures with his brainy (in this case, Asian) friend and their one-of-the-boys, liable-to-say-anything platonic girl pal.
The last story seemed tacked on just to tie the other two together.
I had a tough time caring about the main characters in that one.All in all, not a terrible way to spend a night of post-anesthesia insomnia.
Did not finishing this at 34% meaning I just read the first story and hated it so much I had to stop.
I'm terrified of what I'm going to find in the next two stories and, for now, I'm not seeing myself finishing this any time soon...
So awful, Jubilee was a horrible character in my opinion, she's EXTREMELY judgmental but at the same time she swears she's not.
(view spoiler)[And I'm sorry, but what the hell was that?
She JUST broke up with her long time boyfriend and fell in love with another guy ON THE SAME DAY?
(hide spoiler)]
Apogeul obsesiei pentru lectură sau cum am ajuns să citesc poveşti de dragoste din perioada sărbătorilor în luna august (în lipsă de altceva). Citind numai în limba română, asta a fost singura carte pe care am putut-o împrumuta de la o persoană, stabilită în Nisa, care a primit-o cadou de la fiica ei de Crăciun. Şi, în fapt, a fost destul de drăguţă. De data asta îmi permit să fiu tolerant cu romantismul zorzonat...
