https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18465657-the-one-only
I really wanted to like this book because I've enjoyed Emily Giffin's books in the past. But it was terrible. At first I thought maybe it was just because I'm not a football fan, but the characters are all horrible and poorly developed and (spoiler) I just rolled my eyes every time Shea talked about dreamy Coach Carr. Ick.
Emily Giffin's work and I have a relationship in which I go in expecting absolute drivel and she either, a.) surprises the poop out of me and I enjoy the book (Hello, "Something Blue," "Where We Belong" and "Love the One You're With"), or b.) I curse myself for spending the money on exactly what I knew I'd be getting (everything else she's written).
She's got gravitas.....until, she doesn't.Lucy loses her mother to a long battle with cancer and the super hot, delicious coach 20+ years Shea (our main character's) senior loses his wife.
What the friggidy frack did I just read?? It was like a really bad episode of Friday Night Lights... Wait, no. That's insulting to Friday Night Lights. I was so looking forward to the release of this book, but it was terrible. A main character that I couldn't connect with, a completely underdeveloped supporting cast, and a bizarre plot with too much random (and sometimes disturbing) stuff crammed in. Overall, 2 giant thumbs-down - and I have a feeling many fans are going to be just as disappointed as I was.
Ugh. No.For the sake of spoilers, I'll just say that this book was definitely a page turner.
I couldn't wait to see what happened next, but that's because I was waiting for it to get better.
There was a glimmer of hope at page 400 out of 413, but it reverted back to it's crappy self.
I'm disappointed, I generally enjoy Emily Giffin books, but this definitely left something to be desired.
It wasn't well written, the character development was sub par, the author seemed to be flippant about serious issues, and the relationships were just creepy.
It was hard to empathize with the characters.
I love Emily Giffin, but WOW this was a complete misfire.
The main character was dull/barely changed over the course of the book, the romance was shockingly more bothersome than her previous love stories of stealing your bff's fiance, and the central mystery of the novel was never resolved.
(view spoiler)[Why is the NCAA investigating Walker?
She was a weak character, and Giffin's attempts to justify sexual assault in the name of loyalty to the game are grotesque.
Not to mention, the love story was beyond incestuous, with super-problematic power imbalances.
Here is what I learned from reading this book:1.
Emily Giffin's favorite word is "smirk." Her characters do a *lot* of smirking.
If Emily had been allotted a certain number of uses of the word "smirk" (or "smirked" or "smirking") for the duration of her life, she would have used them all up in the 413 pages of this book.2.
When I am inclined to quit reading a book because it's so annoying, I should listen to my inclinations.
The characters are one-dimensional and unlikable, the writing is clunky and amateurish, and Emily Giffin needs a much better editor.
Too much football and a slightly incestuous-like relationship ruin this book. The characters are great on their own, but their relationships and the story in general don't feel authentic. It is actually a bit disturbing, if you really think about the true dynamics/power structure of it all.
Being a gigantic fan of Emily Giffin’s first three books, and not omgloving her last three – I thought this was one of her best (if not thee best) written books.
That being said, I am a football fan but the detail and constant football talk was even a bit too much for me.
I’d love a sequel to this story because I just can’t fathom the future of this ending.
I’d give it 4.5 stars for the writing but 3.5 for the story.
While, I did enjoy the name dropping of Jon Gruden (hee!) and that Coach Carr happened to be a closet GB Packers Fan (Go Pack Go!) AND that my Aaron Rodgers was named the best QB in the league by Shea's colleague at the Dallas Post (BOOM!), that's unfortunately where the novelty of an Emily Giffin football book ended.
Ugh. I just didn't care for Shea and her self pity, didn't "get" the appeal of Coach Carr, Lucy was selfish and whiny, I feel almost guilty for still liking Ryan after his character beat down.
I was expecting a beach read, definitely not. Had a looming sense of dread / discomfort through most of the book, and only finished it to find out what happened. Blech.
I really wish the story hadn't gone there.
She also begins dating the superstar QB for the Dallas Cowboys, but it turns out she may have feelings for someone else in the picture.I've read a couple of reviews that really call into question the romantic subplot of Shea developing feelings for the older Walker football coach.
Giffin's development of this story works well and feels authentic, including Shea's guilt over her feelings in the wake of the coach's wife's death and the fact that she's been best friends with his daughter for years.
Make this "The One & Only" Emily Giffin book you never read.
Disappointing. Weird relationship storyline-could not get over that age difference and fatherly role.
I am a female sportswriter like Emily Giffin's main character, Shea.
Even if I enjoyed the characters and plot development in this book (which I didn't -- a surprise considering how much I loved those in Giffin's other books), I would have still despised the way Giffin portrayed my profession.
Actually, the way she portrayed female sports fans in general was insulting.
I don't know if I would have liked the book better had it not insulted my profession/passion.
But if Giffin was trying to appeal to female sports fans with this heroine, she missed her mark badly.
This book was boring, the main character completely unlikeable and self-centered, and I couldn't wait to finish it hoping that it wasn't going down the way it was hinted at in the first couple of chapters.
Also her hollow sacrifice in the name of friendship reminded me so much of Something Borrowed except much worse because Lucy wasn't wrong for feeling icky about the whole best friend getting with her father issue.
It was so gross and I couldn't understand why Lucy suddenly rolled over on the issue.
I eagerly looked forward to it showing up on my doorstop this week, as I've loved and own most of Giffin's previous books - not to mention I was in serious need of a feel-good read.
Combine that with Giffin telling us through the whole novel how perfect her protagonist and romantic lead are, and I felt sick when I finished.
Giffin's strength is in writing flawed heroes, plural perspectives, real-feeling relationships, and making her readers understand both sides of a situation that would normally seem wrong.
Just remember, ladies, if a man has a really important football game to win, nobody cares if he raped you! That's just one of the many things I learned from this terrible book.
1 1/2 stars...it gets the extra star just because I kept reading since I feel like this a book I love to hate.
This one made me uncomfortable since the main character who was boring and only cared about football falls in love with her father figure.
I really enjoy football (although I cannot relate at all to the Texas football culture or Texas in general) but between the cliche characters and endless football stats and rants about the NCAA this book was terrible.
It needs mentioning again, the whole father figure part was AWKWARD and GROSS.
And, thirty-year old Shea struggles to make sense of her feelings for the Coach that not only practically raised her, but is also her best friend’s father.First and foremost, I have to admit that I struggled with the relationship between father-figure Coach Carr and Shea.
Even the main character admitted that there were too many reasons it wasn't right, including (1) he was too much older than her (20+years), (2) he recently lost the love of his life, and (3) he was her best friend's father.
The particular dynamic between Shea and Coach Carr just didn’t work for me, and I was a bit disappointed in my first and probably only novel by Emily Giffin.
Emily Griffin fans will not be disappointed with this book...after receiving an ARC of the book, I could hardly contain my excitement. This novel definitely contains a love story, along with a deep connection to football...as a fan myself, I could relate to the connection, although others may find this part difficult. The reason for the 4/5 rating is due in part to my belief that parts of this book were a little "far-fetched"...all in all, I would recommend this book!!!
I found myself reading desperately through the book, hoping she wouldn't end up falling for her friend's father.When her best friend FINALLY finds out and gives her an ultimatum, I was happily relieved.
A REAL happy ending (and a redeemable one at that) would have had Shea end up alone and starting fresh, dealing with her own personal issues and figure out how to love herself.
Emily Giffin is extraordinary and I'm looking forward to an eighth book from this talented author.
Instead she decided to reward Walker with a NCAA football championship and excuse its' pretty awful behavior.
Giffin sabotaged it the most by having the protagonist decide it was okay to let her super quarterback ex-boyfriend get away with a past history of abusing girlfriends as long as he finally was getting therapy.
And the worst was how she gave a complete pass to her true love, Coach Carr, for turning away from the hotshot quarterback's abuse of his college girlfriend and her accusation of rape against said quarterback.
I cannot begin to say how much I despised this book.
I would have thought that this was Giffin's first novel since it came across rather amateur.
I didn't enjoy her last two novels either so I am officially breaking up with Emily Giffin - at least for a while.Also are people being bribed to give this book more than two stars?
I simply can't believe that the average rating for this novel is a little over three stars.
I'm sure that since they can do greeting cards that play music, the hardcover book could be engineered to have a music chip in it.Not quite the tiny town in FNL, not high school football, but the official state religion of Texas is football, and Shea lives and breathes for Coach Carr and his family and his team.
This book is for the girl who sleeps in her sweetie's jersey at night and has her girlfriends over for gossip in the kitchen during the game.
Plus, Shea was born on the day of the Miracle on Ice which is the best single sports game ever played.
Well if you're not a die hard football fan maybe give this one a pass (no pun intended). She took a risk here segregating her audience to those who wanna read a whole lot of football lingo. Will make a better movie than book.
Also, I don’t speak ESPNglish so a good chunk of the book was lost on me.Another thing that bothered me, and I admit this probably was a movie I played in my head, was that from the book’s blurb where it says that Shea, I quote “finally gives up her safety net to set out on an unexpected path”, I expected this to be a story of a small town girl that moves somewhere else, goes to a big city, and not slightly changes her job and enters in new relationships…Finally, as usual, I hate over-depressing things in my fluffy reads, this book had two: (view spoiler)[Domestic abuse, and miscarriage.
I think that I couldn't help but love this because I'm a major football fan (albeit NFL, not college) and I also have a huge soft spot for Emily Giffin - she's one of the only straight chick-lit authors I read on a consistent basis.
I found this to be inherently readable and addictive, and I finished it in a day on a plane ride.
And did I mention that I love football?
(I can only aspire to one day be half as knowledgable as Shea!)
However, when I read this involved football I wasn't sure what to think of it since I don't like the sport.
O_o All the characters are engaging: Lucy, Coach Carr, Neil, Ryan...even Miller.
I LOVED Miller.
I admire how she 'handled' her situation, her loyalty to her friendship and even the sweet way she still cares for people no longer so present in her life.
More than half-way into the book I was rooting for an end but totally changed my mind and at the very last page it was impossible to hold my tears.
I totally recommend.
Even to no football fans like me.
Amazing! Emily makes the unbelievable BELIEVABLE!!!! Stunning characters in this book that will have both men and women reading to the end to find out what happens in this cutting-edge novel about football, friendship and love! Every time Emily writes a novel, you think she's done it all, well she has outdone herself once again with The One & Only!
