https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22571691-the-two-penny-bar
There are days like this, when ordinary life seems heightened, when the people walking down the street, the trams and cars all seem to exist in a fairy tale." Within pages of these opening sentences, Simenon immerses his reader in a dark, existential, page turner, with a cast of characters including con men, a condemned inmate, a femme fatale, a loan shark, and a brooding murderer.
The Two-Penny Bar (originally published as La Guinguette à deux sous in 1931) was Georges Simenon's eleventh mystery featuring French detective Jules Maigret, and it is everything one would expect in a Maigret mystery.
Really enjoy these Inspector Maigret books.As well as good mystery stories I find them veryinteresting as here is always a little philosophicaldepth to them.These are books you could read in one day if you havethe time and I think the is the best way to read themwith a nice pot of tea.Very enjoyable!
Another great Simenon. Inspector Maigret interrogates a young man charged with murder. The man is already condemned and will face the death penalty. The man has nothing to lose so he sneers at Maigret, letting him know that he witnessed a murder six years ago. Now the inspector must find out who was murdered and where and finally who did it. A very good story line with a great plot.
A pensive condemned man clues Chief Inspector Jules Maigret in to a six-year-old unsolved murder, pointing out the connection to a drinking establishment on a Parisian canal, the Two-Penny Bar. Thus begins one of Maigret’s most convoluted cases — and one of my favorites.
With his wife away in her native Alsace, Maigret is at a loose end, so he stays and parties with the group and befriends the sardonic, hard-drinking Englishman James.
That’s why Maigret is present when one member of the group, Feinstein, is killed and to witness the shameless flirtations of Feinstein’s wife, Mado.
Well, I didn't enjoy this one...at allIt was too slow and dull, boring sometimes, and Inspector Maigret was clueless till the last pages, it was disappointing for someone that experienced to miss that much.. I'll Give it another try and hope for the best
Two murders, six years apart, linked psychologically — both caused, as usual, by money problems including paying a mistress who is the trigger for both killings. The usual oppressive closed atmosphere - a strange circle of friends that frequent the bar in the title - and Maigret solving the crime by ratcheting up the psychological pressure.
“THE BAR ON THE SEINE” can be summed up as a nice and tidy detective novel peopled with an interesting array of characters, some of whom Inspector Maigret matches wits with.
The drama begins in a prison cell where a man (Monsieur Lenoir) –-- a petty criminal sentenced to death whom Maigret had arrested some time earlier --- awaits word about a possible reprieve.
Maigret pays Lenoir a visit, tells him that a reprieve will not be forthcoming, and that he will be put to death at dawn the next day.
I read this novel in 3 days and enjoyed being entertained by it.
Along the way, we're treated to a brilliant exposition of Maigret's lack-of-a-method:  'He had handled hundreds of cases in his time and he knew that they nearly always fell into two distinct phases.
I read a Maigret novel less for the thrill of finding out 'whodunnit' than for the excursion into a small, previously unknown world that has been shaken to its foundations.
While not as consistently interesting as some of his more polished novels, Simenon still peoples this specific world with some interesting characters, interestingly observed.
I'd read a few pages of The Bar on the Seine when I realized that I'd read it about 30 years ago. Back then, I think that I read it more to discover the perpetrator of the crime. This time, the solution to the mystery didn't matter to me - even though I had forgotten who had committed the crime - and I read the novel for the psychology of the characters and for the milieu described in the book. One of Simenon's most perfect Maigret novels.
A Maigret és a víg kompánia csupán 144 oldal, de az 144 oldalnyi tömény jóság. Nem is kell belőle több. Igazi lassú, békebeli krimi, amikor még a lábmunka, a véletlenek összjátéka, és egy detektív együttesen kellenek a bűnügy kiderítéséhez. A hangulata a világ, a kor egyaránt elbájoló, s félelmetesen nem fog rajta az idő sem.http://napifalat.blogspot.hu/2017/12/...
Nice.
Da qui il commissario Maigret comincia ad indagare in una combriccola di borghesi parigini, benestanti, che nel fine settimana si divertono in campagna bevendo e scherzando in un’osteria in riva alla Senna; come sempre l’inchiesta è un pretesto: pur dovendo indagare su ben due omicidi compiuti nella balera da due soldi, non è il giallo, non è la scoperta del colpevole e del movente che interessano Simenon, è soprattutto ricostruire l’ambiente piccolo borghese, dove sotto la patina di gioioso ed innocente divertimento si nascondono tradimenti coniugali, ricatti e soprattutto disillusione, amarezza per una esistenza vuota scandita da riti e abitudini nella quale ci si sente come imprigionati, in cui gli unici momenti “felici” sono quelli concessi dalla consolazione dell’alcool che tutto fa dimenticare.Stavolta il finale mi ha un po’ deluso, ecco il perché delle tre stelle.
I just really love reading these little gems from Simenon.
Maigret is always such a great character.Whilst I really liked this one I felt there was something missing, perhaps because it was an early Maigret Simenon had found his sense of fun with the character yet, perhaps he just didn't eat nearly as much as usual.
Another concern is that it was a new translation of the original French text and it may have been that which added a more staid modern touch which I had not found in earlier translations.All in all a fun 140 pages or so, well worth reading.
Tre stelle generose. Un Maigret sottotono in questo romanzo; fra le righe ho letto una critica verso quella media borghesia che convinta di essere "arrivata" fa sfoggio del proprio successo in quello che ai nostri tempi potrebbe essere una sorta di country club o circolo… I delitti sono veramente marginali più ancora degli scritti precedenti.
It is through a sheer knot of concentrated intent that Maigret puts himself into the scene of the crime and waits until all the diverse threads begin to collapse and the story emerges, seemingly by itself.
The clue sends Maigret to a tavern by the Seine where there is a "fast crowd" of young professionals who like to fish and in general fool around.
Maigret and the Tavern by the Seine is one of Simenon's excellent Maigret mysteries from the 1930s, my favorite period of his stories.
Since his time was short and all appeals had failed, the young man gave hints about a murder that had occurred years ago – but without mentioning names.
Little hints were picked up on over a period of time - during which times Maigret became a regular imbiber of Pernod – so that leads to the past murder were uncovered.
During this investigation period, however, another murder occurs within the regulars of the bar that puts Maigret on the right track of the killer.
One of the things that Simenon does in this book, however, is to openly reveal his methods of writing the Maigret mysteries.
Simenon uses this story to re-inforce his detective, Chief Inspector Maigret as a caring man who loves justice above all things.
Its the Summer and everyone has deserted Paris to go on holiday; before Maigret joins his wife in Alsace he pays a last visit to a prisoner on death row, the night before his execution.
This is an intriguing story which demonstrates how this great detective works to crack a case.
He is determined and driven, selfish and selfless in his work and singleminded to get his solution.
A terrific tale that stars Maigret and it is his characterisation that has driven so many more books about this wonderful detective.
aside from the mystery, one begins to know maigret a little better: his desire for comfort and his wife, conflicting with his drive to see a case through, and a crime solved.
one begins to see that maigret is a lonely man, wanting a friend for himself, one that he can be quiet with, comfortable with, who wants to be around him.
these maigret books are like the very french macarons i bought the other day: they have light and airy shells with rich fillings at the centre, and are very easily consumed.
A rambling confession by a condemned man and an overheard conversation at a haberdashery leads Maigret to a weekend gathering south of Paris.
These were people who owned their own cars, but who only had Sundays off for unwinding in the countryside.Maigret already knows the pattern of their adulteries, what he does not yet know is the identity of the murderer among them.
And he does not expect a fresh killing to happen on the second day of the sleepy, summer weekend.That description makes The Two-Penny Bar sound like an Agatha Christie novel, but while it is perhaps not as despairing as some of the Maigret series, it is Simenon through and through.

This was actually the first 'Maigret' novel I ever read.
It was entitled The Bar on the Seine when I read it and it didn't make me a fan of Simenon.
Therefore it was another 8 years before I tried a 'Maigret' novel again.
I just happened on impulse to pick up 'Pietr the Latvian' last year and I was hooked.Since then I have become a big fan of Simenon and 'Maigret'.
So I have re-read this novel (with the changed title) and on this second occasion I loved it!
It's one of the great 'Maigret' novels.
I couldn't guess where this book was going next. Oddly tranquil for a murder mystery. Made me want to while away an afternoon in a Parisian cafe, though I wouldn't order Pernot. (Thanks for the loan, Cindy!)
The following day, even though he is expected in Alsace to spend part of the summer vacation with his wife at her sister's home, Maigret heads to the bar where one of its denizens may be a murderer.
Almost immediately Maigret is welcomed into the merry group of revelers who get together for 24 hours every weekend to play, fish, swim, drink, sometimes dress in costume, and in general lead lives quite different from their day-to-day existence.
Soon one of the group is murdered, another one goes on the run, and a third forms a daily friendship with Maigret as they meet to enjoy glasses of Pernod each evening.
As is usual with a Maigret mystery, it gets right to the point.
Before leaving for a summer vacation, Maigret drops in on a condemned man whom he had put behind bars.
The doomed man complains about the injustice of other murderers walking free, including a murderer he had been blackmailing for years and recently met again at a place called the "Two-Penny Bar." But none of Maigret's police colleagues have ever heard of such a place...Not quite as crisp an ending and some of my favorite Maigrets, but written with the usual vivid Simenon prose and colorful characterizations.
I read this book after reading the very disappointing "Maigret at the Coroner".
That book had Maigret serve as a casual observer in a murder inquest in which he did no actual sleuthing.
"The Two-Penny Bar" is quite the opposite.Maigret is stuck in Paris during the heat of summer while his wife is away on vacation awaiting his arrival.
But before Maigret can leave he must get to the bottom of an unsolved case, and he certainly does a bit of sleuthing here.
There is a handful of suspects that Maigret must question one-by-one while at a commune in the southern suburbs of Paris.
Maigret visits a convict about to be executed who says he has an acquaintance who deserves to be on the block as well, related to the death of a Shylock six years previously.
The convict only says to look at the bar called the Guinguette a deux sous (named for a 2 sou player piano in the place).
When the inspector goes there he finds a bunch of middle class cavorters who swim and fish and drink the week end away.
Meanwhile Madame Maigret has gone to visit here sister in Alsace and wonders when he M will arrive to vacation in peace.
Nagyon kedvemre való volt ez a 2015-ös megjelenésű, akkor kimaradt Maigret. :) A víg kompánia valóban az, aminek hangzik, egy hétvégi italozásokra és kikapcsolódásra összegyűlő kis társaság, akiknek törzshelye a kétfrankos zöldvendéglő. Egy kalapboltban meghallott pár szó miatt Maigret is hirtelen köztük találja magát. Természetesen rövidesen felbolydul minden, amikor valaki holtan esik össze egy pisztolylövéstől... A múlt árnyai is megjelennek a regényben, és a mi felügyelőnknek birizgálja a csőrét egy hat évvel ezelőtti eset is, ami valamiért ide kapcsolódik. Pernod-k és habzóborok fogynak, néha megszakítva egy-egy sörrel. ;) Hamarosan bővebben a blogon.
I have not read any Simenon books before, despite having known of his work for decades. This was an okay mystery, with good characters, but it was never as engrossing as I would have liked. Maigret is an interesting lead, but he never rises to the level of fascinating, and his problem-solving seems almost perfunctory. He has insight, though. The secondary characters are perhaps more interesting than the detective. I'll have to try some other Simenon books, but right now I admit that it isn't a high priority for me.
The book started out strong, with a condemned man telling the detective about witnessing a murder 6 years before near the Two Penny Bar. He has to figure out who was murdered and who was the murderer. After he finds the bar another murder occurs. There isn't much in the way of character development. The middle drags but there was a nice twist at the end.
Rather disappointing compared with other Maigret novels. Maybe the premise is the problem (a condemned criminal making a denunciation before his execution and Maigret rushes to investigate). At least it didn't work for me. Nor did the motivation work too well: although some of the characters were interesting, their actions do not seem particularly convincing
