https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15670.On_Stranger_Tides
On the menu tonight:  ON STRANGER TIDES Amuse BoucheThis treasured bit of savory Pirate en Papillote will tantalize your taste buds: a choice cut of ole pirate lore and Caribbean history, spiced with traditional Creole seasonings, and glazed with a stringent sea salt reduction to further whet the appetite. Ahoy, diners, prepare yourself for a repast that is simultaneously light and fulfilling!AppetizerA tossed salad of varied delights: for the historian, we include historical greens as served du
On this topic, our lips are sealed and our flavor profiles shall remain sacrosanct!DessertFor our last dish, we offer you this stunning and dramatic plate: a half-mad English sorcerer, reliving his days as a happily married man, furiously fucking the sand as he once again fulfills his wedding night duties, as all around him turn aside, aghast!Wine PairingThe vintage “Tim Powers” is a truly unique palate cleanser: it takes traditional historical figures and places them within the realm of the supernatural, all the while remaining true to their documented history.
THE SHANDY METHOD* Become the YOU you've always wanted to be in just  6  short months!!!
You want to work MAGIC?
You want to become a MASTER SWORDSMAN?
You want to CAPTAIN your own ship?
You want to be a MASTER OF SEAMANSHIP?
You want to cook Bouillabaisse like a FIVE STAR CHEF?
Just follow Jack Shandy's patented  TEN STEP PIRATE PROGRAM and you too can be a master of your own destiny.Act now and you
EVERYTHING WILL TURN OUT IN THE END!STEP FIVE: How to selfishly use all those around you!NEVER FEAR -- YOU'LL BE A RIGHTEOUS PIRATE!
Just send your $5.00 dollar cheque or money order for shipping and handling, and you will be the Pirate you've always wanted to be.Chandagnac Enterprises3 Hillside Ave.Summerside, PEC1N-4H3*obligatory disclaimer: the jack shandy method only works if you have spent your life as a professional puppeteer.
any failure to approach this method without the proper life experience is the sole responsibility of the customer, and Chandagnac Enterprises cannot be held responsible for any side effects suffered by aforementioned customer.
Living among these outcasts his whole outlook in life is changed as he learns the tricks of the trade and had to do battle with both natural and supernatural foes.The book has well rendered action sequences and relies quite heavily on magic - inspired both from the voodoo practices of the Carribean and from the legends of the Fountain of Youth and of Ponce de Leon.
If you are as nerdy about movies as you clearly are about books if you are visiting this here book website, you probably recognize "On Stranger Tides" as the name of the fourth film in the Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Belabored Franchise Subtitle series.
* Both combine seafaring lore and zombies, one dull taste and one stale taste that somehow still taste great together.In fact, I'd wager POTC actually does quite a disservice to On Stranger Tides as a novel, since even though the book was published around 15 years before the writers of the movies appropriated all of its ideas named it as an "inspiration," Tim Powers' work can't help but feel a little uninspired these days.
On Stranger Tides may be the best audiobook I've listened to so far.
He performed it rather than read it and the result was the most fun I've ever had listening to a book.For a long time, the rumor mill has been saying that On Stranger Tides is to be the basis for the next Pirates of the Caribbean movie.
Having listened to this book, it's not surprising that Disney is using it for the next Pirates movie.
On Stranger Tides blends pirates, voodoo, a damsel in distress, and the Fountain of Youth into a rollicking good story.
This book caught my attention with promise of meeting Baron Samedi.
And you can't say "no" to Baron just because you're not into pirate stories!
I really liked it, surprisingly, even though I didn't get to meet the Baron, at least not the way I imagined.The pirates were their usual – drinking, cursing, fighting and robbing bastards.
It's everywhere - in air and soil, and especially sea water, and on the fingertips of any decent pirate.
And the blood runs free here, which surely isn't unexpected.I especially liked the part about the trip to Erebus.
This is an excellent book and one that I could easily see myself giving 5 stars to if I had been more in the mood for a slightly leisurely pace.
Combine those two plot threads with pirates (including the legendary Blackbeard), voodoo magic, the Fountain of Youth, zombies and some excellent, excellent writing by Tim Powers and you have a superb novel.
I mentioned above the pacing as the reason I did not give this 5 stars and I want to say one thing about that.
Some of my favorite books (Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell being a great example) have a very leisurely pace and I absolutely loved them.


The first and second chapter is good for introductions, but I believe many readers could read/predict some details will be important to make surprises at the end of the book.Then the story development is a bit predictable at middle part of the book.
Even with surprises of the voodoo magic and fantastic realms, the middle part up to 3/4 of the book is just passable 2 star for me.
After reading a lot of stories with good character development this year, I found many of the characters of this book feel flat, but I can tolerate it because this novel only has 322 pages.
I mean, it's got a virtuous yet flawed hero (who cooks!), towering evil for him to fight, ambiguous good guy/bad guys, magic, pirates (with magic), naval battles (with magic), cool voodoo mages, walking undead, spirits, the Fountain of Youth, a damsel in distress, implacable foes (with magic) and, of course, true love.
marveling at how well Tim puts you in the world with his physical descriptions and thinking "Somebody's got to make this into a movie" when I find out that someone wants to make this into a movie.
Well, yeah, it won't be like this great book, but with Tim Powers' story at the center, it could still be a good movie.
Perhaps if I had not had such high hopes and expectations I would've liked it more?The pacing was a bit slow, and it was definitely not one where I couldn't wait to get back into it.
I did like Shandy and Davies and Skank.
And I liked the magic and how it was explained, again I liked Shandy's development in this area, and I liked how the different types of loas where described and understood.
Overall it was an enjoyable enough action story, though a bit ponderous in places, but it just didn't grab me overmuch.
Aunque por momento lo entretenido del argumento me hacía olvidar todo esto (mérito del libro y de que, al fin y al cabo, en mi adolescencia quitando a Harry Potter lo de la literatura juvenil eran las novelas de aventuras de mosqueteros y piratas), pero no he podido dejar de pensar cómo una revisión de los tropos del género termina convirtiéndose en la nueva piedra sobre la que se alimenta todo.John Chandagnac, el protagonista, se embarca rumbo al Caribe buscando a su tío, un rico hacendado que negó la parte correspondiente de su fortuna a su familia.
No me gusta tener expectativas antes de comenzar una lectura, porque normalmente éstas quedan muy por debajo de la que al final nos parece.
Pensé que, al tratarse de una historia de piratas y fantasía, era lo más conveniente para asomarme a la literatura de este autor.
Si la historia me hubiera parecido interesante hasta lo hubiera agradecido, como me ocurrió leyendo Piratas de Vázquez-Figueroa (libro que aprovecho para recomendaros, al igual que su autor).
La historia había empezado bien y prometía mucho, pero se ha desinflado y ha terminado siendo monótona, con algunos momentos en los que daba la impresión de que iba a remontar, para acabar seguidamente con esta esperanza.
The plot is a glorious mess, but it feels a bit too long.
It all could have been resolved at the 3/4 mark without much issue, making the last quarter feel like filler.
The romance, also, is a bit perfunctory, but the rest of this ungainly beast works beautifully.This book was the basis of the fourth Pirates of the Caribbean movie, which I haven't seen, but so much of this was lifted for the first I'm not sure how they came back for seconds.This isn't the best swashbuckler around, but if you like your ships manned by ghosts and zombies, you must try this.
Tim Powers seems to be a fan of long sentences; although this stylistic choice usually makes stories hard to read and drawn out, such was not the case in On Stranger Tides:“For half an hour the odd company splashed, plodded and stumbledthrough one claustrophobic tangle of vegetation after another; Shandy’s knife-wielding arm was shaking with fatigue from chopping vines and tree branches, but he drove doggedly on, climbing up out of pools he blundered into, and forcing himself to breathe the harsh air, and always being terribly careful not to let the torch he carried in his other hand be extinguished, or bun off all its charge of the black herb.”The only time his long sentences were tough, were scenes describing what is happening in relation to the ship.
Powers is well worth reading if you like fantasy.He has excellent narrative quality, a mind devious for plot and structure, and does action and adventure as other writers only dream.But if you are a fantasy writer, Powers is a doubly worth studying.Consider that the man has written shelves of books; but they are stand-alone in a time when everyone asks for an acronymed series (HP, ASOIAF, LOTR, WOT, KkC...
It is not enough for Powers to tell a zombie-pirate story.
Powers is fascinated by the rules of magic; not in artificial worlds like Westeros or the Shire, but within the parameters of this world.
This is a novel about pirates...Magical Pirates (gasp!). No booty, no hooks for hands, no peg legs, no parrots nor even a single aaarrrggghhh in the entire book. Still a decent enough pirate tale even though a chore at times to read while waiting on some action. Varied from 2.5 stars for the first half to 3.5 stars later with a 2 star ending.
Literally it does, of course, it’s a high seas adventure of a grand scale, it’s actually the basis for the original Pirates of The Caribbean movie, although miles (leagues) away from an actual adaptation, more like they got some ideas from it and then went off with it.
So yeah, mixed opinion on this, but it was fun at times and exceptionally well narrated.
So yeah, landlubbers, this is a fun adventure that may or may not see you want to go on the account and hoist the colors, but then there’s still the poop deck jokes.
Pre-Read: Ok, I'm putting aside the dreadful Pirates of the Carribean connection, and try to read this on it's own merits.
Despite never firing a gun, he's able to give the pirates lessons on accuracy within an hour.
Despite never having studied voodoo, he's able to duke it out with the masters within a couple of months.
By the end, even the narration that I started off thinking was good became like nails on chalk boards.I enjoyed Powers' Last Call very much, so I've been picking up his books as I've found them on sale for a couple of years now but this one was such a flop for me that now I'm dreading trying to read my way through the rest of the backlog.
I bumped this up my reading list because I wanted to read it ahead of the fourth Pirates of the Caribbean movie ruining adapting it, and I'm glad I did.
I wish that Pirates of the Caribbean would not have used the "On Stranger Tides" subtitle, so that a committed movie version could have been made from this unique novel.
In the opening credits, it says the movie was "suggested by" the novel.
Not based on, or adapted from, but suggested, which I liked, because at least they are being honest about how little they used the book.
Another nutty Powers adventure combining Leiber styled swashbuckling, gothic horror, and quirkiness worthy of a Terry Gilliam film. Like Waldrop, Powers can cram a narrative to the brim with eccentric facts and connect the dots into seamless fun. Here he throws voodoo, Native American magic, Blackbeard, quantum physics, zombies, the fountain of youth, battling magicians, and Puppet Theater. One unbelievable and tidy coincidence at the conclusion is one of the few hitches in the fun adventure. If only the Pirates of the Caribbean were this groan free.
Tim powers does it again. This may be my new favorite pirate adventure ever. Seafaring lore, oddball characters and a realistic basis for magic that I loved. I have yet to read anything by Powers that I have not liked and this story was just about perfect. An outstanding novel that I heartily recommend.
Powers stvarno zna ispresti priču. uzbudljivo od početka do kraja. istina, kao što su i drugi rekli, ženski lik je mogao biti malo jači, i ima potencijala, ali i ovako se našla na pravom mjestu u pravo vrijeme.
Really 3 and a half stars. A pirate adventure tale interwoven with alot of fantasy elements. This book has pirates, voodoo, sea battles, ghosts, magic, and daring rescues. It was originally written in 1988 - long before the first Pirates of the Caribbean movie - but many elements of the story have appeared in those films. I took a half star off for the uneven pace of the plot, especially in the first half of the book. It does pick up in the second half, leading to an exciting and satisfying ending. Overall, it was a fun read.
Leí Las Puertas de Anubis y me alucinó muchísimo, de tal forma que fue uno de mis libros favoritos de ese año.
Me encantan sus descripciones, aunque a veces pueden ser algo densas y largas, y me fascina lo bien que ha sabido describir el ambiente de la novela y lo fácil que me ha resultado sentirme transportada allí.Qué decir de sus personajes.
Pero entremezcla tan bien fantasía, aventura y terror (porque sí, hay algunas partes que dan algo de yuyu) que honestamente, aunque tenga partes algo más lentas, definitivamente merece mucho la pena.
Having said that, I should say that I didn't find too many similarities between the stories so I am reviewing the book, NOT the movie.Powers evidently put an awful lot of research into this novel.
I feel like this was a good story from the perspective of someone looking into those fantasy elements, but I didn't particularly enjoy it as someone who loves pirate stories.
(hide spoiler)] The original take on Blackbeard was also entertaining and his (view spoiler)[death and reincarnation were certainly not what I had expected when thinking of Ponce de Leon's Fountain of Youth.
Powers manages to weave together the history of piracy, the age of sail, new world vodoun, and old world magic into an amazing tale which has served as the basis for both the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise and the Monkey Island computer game series -- indeed, re-reading it now as an adult I realize that many elements from the first half of the book were used as a jumping off point for the television series "LOST"!
If you enjoy that, then this book will be delightful; if you don't, then you might want to search for something else a little more common.
I really did not care much for this book and it worries me--though it doesn't surprise me--that this is what Disney looks to loosely adapt for Pirates of the Carribean 4.
All the outlandish and ridiculous elements of Pirates 2 and 3 are ramped up to 11 in this story.
The prose is fine; the characters are interesting enough; but the problem is the supernatural elements.
It's too supernatural for its own good and looses the suspension of disbelief early on.
Remove a few supernatural sequences and it's a fun story.
I do feel like I wasted some good time.
