https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6406018-soul-eater-vol-01
3 1/2 stars.I should have read this on Halloween - really the perfect time to plunge into this series. I can't wait to read more of the Death Weapon Meister Academy and Maka's quest to find a witch to kill. The characters are great, but I'm not sure how I feel about the Ecchi genre inside it... Maka is so young... I do know it's humor alone, but still.
Ah. It's good to be back ;)  *spoilers*  1) I forgot just how different Ohkubo's art was so early on in the series, and I'm so, so crazy amazed that someone can advance that hugely. I was always good at art, but I never developed my skills because I didn't have any passion for it, so I fell behind. The life of an artist is foreign to me, but when I see mangaka improve over time ... I'm so impressed, and weirdly proud of them, even though I don't know them at all. 2) It's really weird rereadi
1) I forgot just how different Ohkubo's art was so early on in the series, and I'm so, so crazy amazed that someone can advance that hugely.
2) It's really weird rereading the series, because I know everything now.
He is the living embodiment of Order, the very opposite of his brother, who is the soul of Chaos.
So I read this, and I know that it's more than a character flaw/quirk.
He lives and breaths organization, especially at this stage in his life, where he hasn't learned or progressed (and neither has the plot, so what can ya do).
*shakes head* Seriously I don't understand how someone can't like Soul Eater?
Which was quite a bit.Anime tracks the manga tightly up to Ch. 37, about halfway through the 10th volume.
Of course, later we have mom Medusa, which, um.The manga was composed over ten years, and it shows in the evolving art style, which becomes darker and more sophisticated as the tale becomes (after some draggy fight-tournament sequences in the teen-volumes where the plot is bent into pretzels to allow every character of interest to have a big fight scene with every other character of interest, and dear lord do those get tedious) more surreal and psychologically and metaphorically complex, and, in some sections, really not for kids.
I AM BLACK STAR!!!!.And I am the BIG MAN whose doing this reveiw of Soul Eater Volume 1.
Also it looks like its written for kids.
These are small stories that Introduce each team.
Maka/Soul who are trying to make Soul into a Death Scyth like Maka's mother did with her father.
Black Star/Tsubaki who as far as I tell are a great team.
And Death the Kid (son of Lord Death) and his twin Weapons Patty/Liz the Thompson Sisters.
Death Scyth, Maka's cheating father who Maka seems to hate.
Sorry if its lacking but read the book if you want more.
But one slip up and they have to start over.((hadjbv;ahrjbrguo MY BABIES!)) ((By Jazzie560 on Tumblr, because I love her art and it gives me ALL OF THE FEELS)) ((Also by Jazzie...and I just love her AU's okay?!))((another by Jazzie...))((This one's by Foxikun on Tumblr; I like AU shizz)) ((And I don't know who did this...))((I feel like this would be me and my boyfriend...If I had one >:c ))((AND HERES SOUL DRAWN BY SOUL ((MICAH SOLUSOD-who voices him in the English dub)) GAHHH ALL MY FANGIRL FEEEEEEEELSSSSSSS))Black*Star & Tsubaki: An Assassin and his Shadow Weapon- 0 souls; Kishin or Witch((By Pia-Sama on DeviantART)) Death the Kid & Liz and Patti (The Thompson Sisters)- A Grim Reaper and his twin pistols.
To the pretties that love anime, We enter a modern Gothic style setting. In the darkness, arrives a girl carrying a rather large sythe. Her objective is to sythe the soul named Jack the Ripper on several counts of murder. She quickly dispatches the murderer, then we are introduced to the main characters of the manga, Maka and Soul Eater. Their objective is to collect 99 human souls and 1 witch's soul equaling 100 souls, so that Soul can become a Death Sythe.On their next mission a hysterical set
In the darkness, arrives a girl carrying a rather large sythe.
Her objective is to sythe the soul named Jack the Ripper on several counts of murder.
She quickly dispatches the murderer, then we are introduced to the main characters of the manga, Maka and Soul Eater.
Their objective is to collect 99 human souls and 1 witch's soul equaling 100 souls, so that Soul can become a Death Sythe.On their next mission a hysterical set of unfortunate events occur landing them back into the Academy, and starting from the beginning.
Recommend!
This manga is just awesome.
These meisters objective is to have their weapon defeat and then devour 99 evil human souls and one witch in order for it to turn into a death scythe.
Maka and her partner Soul, just finished collecting 99 evil human souls, and are about to attempt to capture a witch's soul.
I finished this book because I wanted to see if Maka and Soul were able to capture the witch's soul and turn Soul into a death scythe.I would recommend this book fans of Fairy Tail and Black Butler because I think this also has an unique and interesting plot that is very enjoyable.
I like how the author aesthetically creates a new realm where what's thought to be bad, the Grim Reaper, turns out to be good.
I sometimes get lost while reading because it's a habit of mine to engulf my soul into the whole story as if I was another character so I would keep reading the series non-stop until it ends.
The author did a great job on keeping the reader interested and didn't have boring stories.
Also he did a good job on the graphics as well and had a lot of detail's too.
I know there are a lot of ghost story concepts in manga, there are so many I can't even begin to count.
The idea of the soul is always incredibly interesting and here it's used to a fantastical end.
However, I watched a good portion of the anime before reading this first volume and that without a doubt affected my experience.
The anime is beat for beat the same as the manga.
I still enjoyed reading the book!
The story is interesting enough that I don't mind reliving it in manga form.
I haven`t read the series but so far what I had read on the reviews the mania is way different then watching it on the screen.
Take a hint and watch the series on the screen.
You ever watch a movie but you have read the book before watching the movie.
Like Harry Potter or Twilight and in the end you have rip apart the movies because they aren`t base on the books all the way.
So to save sometime try to watch it then reading it.
I love this series so much it drive me crazy sometimes in a good way.
Soul and Maka have already collected 99 souls and whoops they had to restart all over again because of a cat witch. Haha, that's so funny. Black Star and Tsubaki have attemped to collect a Strong soul and they were stopped by a little kid witch in training, haha. Kid and the Thompson sisters, Liz and Patty, went to egypt and defeated a lot of mummies but Kid was bruised a lot because of symmetry OCD issues. This manga is very funny.
I love this series. I have been seeing it in the library for ages and just decided to pick up the first volume the other day. My parents and i went outside to eat and i pulled it it out to start reading. 5 minutes later i was running back inside to borrow out the other volumes. I absolutely love death the kid.
This was an awesome anime. I'm sad that it no longer airs on Toonami. Yes, I saw the anime before reading the manga, but I still enjoyed reading it. Not much to say besides that it was awesome =-)
Even I, who read this at the age of fourteen, felt so confused and wanted to cry because I don't understand some things.
But the story was so original that get me back to read until the end.
I enjoy reading this, nevertheless.I don't like Maka, honestly.
She was the typical smart girl who wants to be perfect, frustrated when she felt like was left behind.
I know, I know; everyone felt like that something, it's usual.
His character was more well-written by the end of the story.
Maka and Soul, Black*Star and Tsubaki and Death the Kid with the Thompson sisters.Of course we got a whole bunch of wacky characters like Shinigami, Maka's dad, Blair, Stein, and so many more.
It makes for a very colourful cast and it makes the story really come to life.The first volume mostly introduces us to the couples, shows us their quirks and personality, and at the end they get together (well at least Soul/Maka and Black*Star and Tsubaki, because Death is once again distracted by something that might not be symmetrical.
At first, I wasn't so sure about this manga because I didn't expect so much action and so little plot.
But when I began to view it more for what it is (a high-action-based manga with a more simplistic plot) I began to thoroughly enjoy it more.
I'll wait until I've read more into it before I decide, but it is warming up to me.In terms of plot, there isn't much although the feel of it's-the-journey-not-the-destination allows for a very entertaining read and I like the twisted directions they take with the stories.
A sound soul..dwells within a sound mind..and a sound body.That's all you need to get into the Demon Weapons and Meisters Academy,the DWMA for short.
Here at this academy you must fight these evil humans called kishins,the goal is the meister and the weapon must work together and fight these kishins and when you defeat the kishin, your weapon must eat their soul.
Soul Eater Is an action and adventure with comedy thrown into it.
So, be prepared because the kishins are coming and you need to be ready.
and in addition, my favorite characters from this book are Soul and Maka Albarn.
Maka and Soul Eater Evan are weapon and meister.
Soul Eater Evan can form into a scythe, and Maka is the wielder.
they both work together to collect the souls of 100 humans and one witch.
they are enrolled in an academy run by shinigami himself.
every body in the academy partners as weapon and meister.
which ever weapon collects 100 human souls and one witch soul first is to become the weapon of shinigama.
the story mainly focuses on Maka and Soul Eater Evan but they also skip around to other smaller characters.
This was an amazing manga!
The storyline is simply awesome, and I love how there is almost more than 1 pairs of main characters, (about 3).
They all have funny individual personalities, and all the extra details are really cool like with the 99 human soul and 1 witch's soul.The only things I didn't really like was how...
Perverted this manga was majority of the time.
But I have to admit, some part were still pretty funny.
Another thing was how some action or fighting scenes were drawn were kind of confusing, because they almost seemed sloppy and random elements were drawn in each square.
8!!!!Ever since i got into the Soul Eater manga (and after, the show), I have wished for more of this fantastic manga!
Soul Eater extended my imagination and got me into writing short stories based on Atsushi Ohkubo's work.
The only thing i dislike the most about Soul Eater is that I am provided with only 100 chapters of manga and 51 episodes of the discontinued series :(Soul (LOVE him :D <3 ) would call it "cool"Death the Kid would call it asymmetricalBlack*Star would say it has more attention than him (which he HATES)MAD SCIENTIST FOREVER >:D
This series is fun and crazy and pretty much pointless, but it's my kind of pointless. Mostly I love the characters, because there's not that much in the vein of a plot. I would be happy with any story involving Death the Kid or Maka and Soul. Hell, I even like the Naruto!clone Black Star. If you're looking for something fun and nonsensical, Soul Eater's great.
Love the art and the story! Fun to read!
I loved the anime and this is definately so much like the first 3/4 episodes but, it was just as entertaining and action-packed. Great characters, plot and.... MAKA CHOP!
I LOVE SOUL EATER
This so far is one of my favorite manga series. I think fans of the more mainstream manga (bleach and naruto in particular) would enjoy it as well.
Death(or Shinigami) is the maker of the school that rids the evil souls, and Soul and Maka also ahve a chance to meet his son Death the Kid(aka Kid) and his ladies Patty and Liz. There is a twist with everyone's pairings: Each couple is a weapon and a weilder.
Tsubaki is a transforming sword that Black Star weildes, and Kid has two simular handguns of Patty and Liz. With Soul Eater obsessed with being cool, Black Star thinking he's a true star, and Kid carefully making sure the world is symmetrical, the girls must put up with a lot in order to finish their quest.
This manga is a very good read, one of my favorites. The basic aspects in it, like the soul, weapons and demon like creatures, can be found in many manga stories out there. But this one has indeed got to be one of the best, the characters are funny at times, the story is dramatic, and the plot twists are quite unexpected. Anyone who hasn't read it, should definitely do so as it is well worth it.
My fave chara is Soul Eater because he's real cool and Blair was quite an annoying character!
