https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826584.If_You_Give_a_Moose_a_Muffin
If you read this to your child, he'll want to read  If You Give a Pig a Pancake, and if you read that he'll want to read  If You Give a Cat a Cupcake. And if you read that he'll want to read If You Give a Mouse a Cookie and chances are, he'll want to read them again.and againand again.
If you give someone an inch, they'll take a mile. If You Give a Moose a Muffin, he'll overrun your whole house. It's an interesting take on the dangers of desires, and how easy it is to never be satisfied. As the moose gets his way, the things he wants are more and more far-fetched and make for a super fun adventure.The story is the sequel to the much better known If You Give a Mouse a Cookie. It seems like the in the second version Numeroff did everything better: it's less repetitive and the illustrations are way more fun.
This is American literature at it's best.
OMG! A moose in a sweater putting on a puppet show!I have died and gone to heaven!
Its cute ^_^
In this hilarious sequel to If You Give a Mouse a Cookie, the young host is again run ragged by a surprise guest. Young readers will delight in the comic complications that follow when a little boy entertains a gregarious moose. Laura Joffe Numeroff does an amazing job at giving us all the perspectives and using amazing language and imagery. The illustrations really bring the story to life. This story always makes me smile and laugh.
Read at your own risk.)*Happy Birthday, Sara!*I'll say this again, if anyone gives /this/ book anything lower than three stars, they had a rough childhood of much repression and they probably need to see a counselor.
Right away we have a child sticking his body out of the window of his lovely stone house to offer a curious moose a bit of baked goods.
Fast forward a bit.This story is basically just a way for the moose to ruin ALL of the kid's mothers things.
I love children's book authors.
If You Give a Moose a Muffin is a perfect example.
Moose (plural) love muffins.
But there is inherent danger in feeding a wild animal: if you give a moose a muffin, he'll want some jam to go with it.
Once you handed over the jam, though, he has a new demand, and so on, and so on, ad infinitum.These stories are a child's introduction to the absurd, and they're great fun.
They really bring out the characters of the moose and little boy, and have wonderful little touches and details hidden throughout.I always enjoyed this book when I was very young, and I'm sure I could enjoy it just as much today.
There was no plot, no climax, and a poor setting but after I used this book for a supported reading project I grew to understand the importance of this book.
For my supported reading project I used this book for the cause and effect aspect and after the students heard the read aloud they wrote down their favorite cause and effect moment on a notecard.
Prior to the lesson I had made many different cause and effect notecards and the students played a simple game like memory with the cards.
The students really enjoyed the game and I got a whole new respect for Laura Numeroff books.
It was about moose that smelled muffins he was out side the house of a little kid, so the kid gave him a muffin, the moose went inside the house, the moose wanted some jam with the muffin. I liked this book because it was fun to read it how asks many thing that he wants. I will recommend this book to my little cousin because he likes books that have to be with animals.
Silly, wonderful book. My grandsons , ages 3 & 5 wanted to read it again and again. I have to get them the others in the series.
Such a funny story, basically the same storyline as "If you give a mouse a cookie"
Still cute!
Best of the series. Silly, fun book for young children with great illustrations, and I enjoy it.
Mmmm homemade raspberry jam. 5/8/17 Read with Naomi & Julia.3/27/18 Read with Julia7/16/18 Read with Julia.9/16/18 Read with Julia.
A re-read for me (because this one was a huge part of my childhood), but a great one! I loved reading this one to the little kiddos that I babysit. :)
It is fun and delightful and a great book to give to my granddaughter, Clara.
So stinkin cute!
I loved this book as a child.
The book “If You Give A Moose A Muffin” by Laura Numeroff is classified as juvenile fiction; targeting ages 3 to 7. This book is a good selection for teaching about chain reaction and/or cause-and-effect; also its a humorous sequel in the “If You Give… picture book series. The story has vocabulary enrichment for emergent readers; the illustrations are colorful and simple; the story is lighthearted and fun.
This book was funny. The child had no clue that the moose was distracted by everything and the child was distracted as well trying to give the moose what he wanted. I think children will find this book funny.
It is one of my daughter’s favorite books. According to her, “the pictures in the book are so funny, and the moose is so silly.” The illustrations and simple words make it a good choice for beginning readers. It is also a fun book to have children predict what will be coming next.
i like how it gos in a lope wef the moose the muffin and the jameand its a fun book.

When you spot a moose outside your window, you might be tempted to offer it a muffin. But what is a muffin without jam? And what might the moose want to do next?As with all the charming books from this pair, the story is wild and yet plenty of fun. As the connections are made, they actually do make sense even if the end results is wild. There is plenty of humor along the way both from those connections and the wonderful illustrations.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
This book about if you give a moose a muffin, he will eat a another. And then he will ask for a jacket, and a button.I like the book because it's dorky. I recommend this book to the first graders or lower.
the moose is a little bit of a fussbudget, but the book is a good as anything in the first section of C. Bernstein's Girly Man.
I really like the ideas behind these books. I love how they go from one subject to another so quickly but in the end it goes back to the main title, if you give a moose a muffin!
I really like these books for some reason. And since I live in Alaska I see moose nearly every week and love them.
Great mentor text for teaching circular endings.
