https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3407877-the-forgotten-garden
They found her as a very small child and cared enough to take her in and give her a wonderful home full of people who loved and adored her.So she breaks up with her perfect fiancee, marries an asshole, has a child, is a terrible mother, distances herself from everyone who ever loved her, screws up her child's life so that her child screws up HER daughters life...Then I didn't read on.
However, since I have so many life sized idiots on-call whenever I need them, I don't feel I have to read a book about them.Life is too short.
5 stars to Kate Morton's The Forgotten Garden. The plot is mesmerizing and the story-telling of the grandmother and the granddaughter is unparalleled. Morton jumps from time period to time period, country to country, character to character in a flawless manner. The imagery is astounding. The relationships are well planned. Morton keeps you guessing as to how it's all connected with the garden up front and center the whole way through the ride. Thoroughly enjoyed the journey this book takes you on. I am very happy with the ending!
Not-so-fairy-Grandmother who bequeaths said woman an old house with a mysterious history - check3.
Said old, mysterious house is actually a cottage on the wild Cornish coast, complete with a hidden garden, a handsome neighbor, and the faintest suggestion of the supernatural - check4.
Said woman embarks on a quest to uncover her family secrets and heal thyself --- game, set, matchEach chapter of The Forgotten Garden is told through the voices of 3 women: Eliza, Nell and Cassandra, and covers several different time periods throughout the 20th and early 21st century.
God Bless A Milk Cow!Once again, most of my friends on GR loved this book to death!
I'm going to quit picking books my friends love to death!
Nell and Cassandra run an antique shop together.
After Nell's passing, Cassandra's finds all kinds of secrets and is determined to get to the bottom of things.
This brings Cassandra to England and a house that Nell had bought.
Cassandra learns so many things about Nell's past.
Like I said, it's a sad story.
I do like something Cassandra found while she was getting the home fixed up in England.
The narration shifts among different-but-related storylines, all of which, to be fair, I found intriguing: in 1913 a child who can’t remember her name turns up on an Australian dock carrying a book of fairy tales; in 2005 her granddaughter tries to uncover the mysteries of a hidden garden in Cornwall; in Victorian England a wealthy young woman flees her family .
Maybe if the novel were presented a bit differently — as a family saga, not some mysterious tale — then I wouldn’t have been disappointed.
Sometimes when people keep recommending a book, you should listen and read that book.
The Forgotten Garden is such a book.
You finally read it and end up wondering why in the world you waited so long.
Kate Morton provides the intricate layering of different times and places in a masterful manner, gifting the reader with a story that captures the imagination and heart completely.
Nell, as the lost child, is the pivotal character around which all mysteries and actions revolve.
Like the entwining vines of the garden, the story twists and turns, making the path seem impassable, but tenacity is rewarded with clarity.
Well, Mrs. Morton did her magic once again, and managed to not be confusing at all.
Some might call those details unnecessary, redundant or too elaborate, but as someone who loves long books with attention to minor things, it was an absolute joy to read such a fine work.I have to say, I was quite surprised at some of the dark themes that played a part.
I'd love to read more of them; they gave me a really comfy, warm and fuzzy feeling and reminded me of my childhood.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
It is an easy read, and yet gave me room to pause as I stopped to think.
I like books that let me do that without pounding me into a pulp on the way.
I suspect the book might appeal more to women then men and it would be a good choice of several of the reading circles I know.
My only regret: that Eliza's book of fairy tales isn't a real book.Things I like knowing before I buy a book: No profanity that I noticed.
I will read more by this author.
But the concerns of these characters and the themes of this book - like identity, finding oneself, family connections, desires - are so closely tied together that I didn't feel confused once I got to know the characters.Eliza is an author of mystical and sometimes dark fairy tales, with lovely sketched illustrations by another character.
I really wanted to see these illustrations; I imagine them as something like an Arthur Rackham illustration: Some of Eliza's stories find their way into the text of this book, and their symbolism and autobiographical qualities help to unravel the mystery of Eliza's life and how it connects to Nell's and Cassandra's.
If you are looking for a good story to escape into for a while, look no further. The Forgotten Garden weaves a tangled tale of family secrets, kept hidden for generations. Kate Morton does an excellent job of creating mystery and intrigue that spans generations as one woman searches for her true identity and finds her family in an unexpected place along the way. Good Stuff!
Why would Nell be such a twitty jerk to her fiance and adoptive family?
Didn't find the characters' behavior believable.
Why would supposedly strong women (that's how the characters were drawn) do absurd things that were not in character?Nice idea with movement through generations, but .
. .-Didn't believe Nell would behave as she did toward "adoptive" family--and supposedly beloved fiance--when told truth about how she came into family.
Doesn't click at all.-Didn't believe Eliza would do what she did with the contingencies laid upon her--and even if she had, what's the point in staying, walled away from everyone, no contact with anyone--found this absurd.
Every time I had it all figured out a new chink was added to the chain of clues.
I loved the way each chapter transported me to another time and a different POV spanning the generation of women in the family.
I honestly would have liked to have read more about Cassandra's new beginnings and how her life changed after revealing so many lost secrets "just a touch more closer".
Really made take a look into the past generations of women in my family and wonder at all the impressions they have naturally left upon me to share with my children and their children's children.
And at the heart of that, we find one of Morton's real strengths : her ability to capture the often bitter logic of human behavior, the ways in which trust and resentment weave together to form a hobbling grown-up-ed-ness rich with the sting of childhood betrayals.Another of Morton's gifts is especially prevalent in this novel : her intense focus on writers and the imaginary worlds they sculpt from words, especially writers of children's stories.
Morton alternates between narrative chapters about present-day Australia and early-twentieth-century England, punctuated with insertions of fairy tales from a magical book within the book.
I read 549 pages and that was the reveal?
I only stuck it out because I figured the book had to be building up to something.
Now that book had a deeply buried family secret worth reading about.The writing wasn't terrible, and since I was able to sit through all 549 (FIVE HUNDRED AND FORTY NINE) pages, this one gets a whole extra star.
It wasn't bad, it was just blah.(That said, I'm pretty sure I would read a book about Georgiana, the original lost mother, but of course that was the story that wasn't really told in long, boring, drawn-out detail.
This book, is my second Kate Morton novel, and I'm glad to say, that she has not left me disappointed.
While I totally understand why Morton did that, I do think parts left the reader rather perplexed, as to what was going on.
In parts of this book there was an eerie feel to it, and the descriptions of Blackhurst Manor and the gardens were that detailed and real, I felt as if I was really there.
I'm quite sad, that I've finished this book actually.I can't wait to read more from this author!
Years later, she is given a chance to learn more about her true heritage, but it wasn’t until her granddaughter inherits Nell’s estate, that the truth is slowly unearthed.
There are actually three stories here, woven together, carefully constructed to keep the reader in almost unbearable suspense, until all the shocking secrets of the forgotten garden are at last revealed, finally releasing the pain and heartbreak visited on so many, and opening up a new portal for peace and understanding.
I loved Eliza’s fairy tales and the way they paralleled real events, in the story.
Eso, querida mía, es lo que hace que un personaje sea interesante: sus secretos.El jardín olvidado es sumamente rápido, es imposible soltarlo.
Está lleno de misterio y secretos.
Muchos secretos.
Es muy complejo y son tantas las historias, las personalidades, los tiempos y lazos familiares que es increíble ver todo entrelazado y cómo todo tiene sentido y cuaja de manera perfecta al final.
Es una historia muy minuciosa y detallista.
Es una novela en donde la tragedia, la codicia, la injusticia y los sueños tienen un papel fundamental.
I loved every page of this book, including the hokey stuff.This is definitely comfort reading, but it's not chick lit and it's not oversimplified.
At the same time, it had enough enchantment and mystery to appeal to the little girl I once was.
This is a long and lovely story about a woman who made the wrong decision for the right reason, with consequences that echo down through the generations.
Nell, Cassandra, and Eliza are separated by time, but joined by their individual experiences of loss and longing---and the mysteries that bind them together, which I won't tell!
On the one hand, I loved and devoured the last three hundred pages of this book.
The writing is really beautiful, even poetic in parts, and I loved the weaving of Eliza's fairy tales throughout.
On the other hand, it took me 200+ pages to really grab onto it, which, in my opinion, is a bit too much.
In addition, parts of the back story, particularly Eliza's, while necessary, should have been reduced.
Morton knowingly pays homage to Hodgeson Burnett, and even includes it in the story, but still, I felt it was a bit overdone.
The story starts in London when Nell as a little girl finds herself unexpectedly travelling by ship to Australia alone.
It is while visiting her inheritance that Cassandra finally uncovers the secrets surrounding the Mountrachet family Linus, his wife Adeline, their daughter Rose and cousin Eliza, daughter of Linus’s sister Georgiana.How are the family all involved in the disappearance of that little girl nearly a hundred years ago?I am obviously not going to reveal this and spoil the mystery!I think the author may be a fan of The Secret Garden by Frances Hodgson Burnett as not only does The Forgotten Garden remind me in some ways of this classic novel but its author makes an appearance in the story!I read it far too quickly for a novel that is nearly 650 pages.
Aviso desde já que tudo o que possa dizer sobre este livro não vai fazer jus à sua história, à sua qualidade.
Foi dos melhores livros que li, não só este ano, mas de sempre.Há muito tempo que ouvia bloggers a falar deste livro, especialmente, a minha amiga Tita do Prazer das Coisas que não se cansava de me recomendar este livro.
Mas isso não aconteceu.É uma história maravilhosa.
Não só bonita, mas muito bem contada e escrita.
Já tive conhecimento que nem todos os livros da autora são assim, mas a minha estreia foi fabulosa.
I know that this rating of mine is going to be highly unpopular because this specific book seems to have enchanted loads and loads of people.
It has an average rating of 4.17 stars here in Goodreads, and while I was reading it people kept sharing their love for this book and this author.
The thing is that this is a 646-page book and it is structured in a way that makes you realize how it's all going to play out, right from the beginning.
Therefore, you know right from the beginning that you'll have to read all 600 pages before you get the full picture - and what's the excitement of that?
We get to know Eliza, Nell and Cassandra intimately, they are main narrators, but we can also see inside the heads of Rose, Nathaniel, Adeline, and Linus.
The story line skips from person to person, with tossing other characters' POVs, which might irritate you if you prefer fewer POVs. There are some nasty and disturbing characters, like Linus and Adeline, and a few fundamentally wrong decisions made by characters that are otherwise likeable, like Rose and Eliza.
Rose was just like her mother in the end.
good: 3  stars. First off if you’re a Kate Morton fan you’ll love it. Definitely its strongest points were the weaving of Grimm style fairytales and a hidden garden into the story; I’m a sucker for both. Her characterizations are strong; Eliza Makepeace was terrific, definitely the most memorable of the lot. Other standouts included the simpering Rose & Adeline, her social climbing psycho of a mother. They were both so over-the-top weird, I found them fascinating.  not so good:  The constan
First off if you’re a Kate Morton fan you’ll love it.
Definitely its strongest points were the weaving of Grimm style fairytales and a hidden garden into the story; I’m a sucker for both.
not so good:  The constant jumping between different time periods and characters was annoying.
Was the inclusion of the time period 2005 really necessary?… So, I was over 1/2 way into it before I was hooked and it took me over 2 weeks to read a book I’d normally have knocked off in 3 days.
This was my 1st shot at reading Kate Morton - it won’t be my last.
I made sure to be a fast read though, as I couldn't waste too much time with this book, seeing that it didn't please me the way a good book should.Some parts of the story are indeed catchy, the setting of Blackhurst estate is amazing (though I made little use of the map enclosed), but some of the characters and events are not quite believable.
If you made a résumé of this book, the resulting story would be interesting enough, but the 500 pages are not worth the time spent in its company, if you're looking for a gripping, fast-paced novel.
Review summed up in two words: OVERBLOWN & UNDERWHELMING.In some more: this is a beautifully written, but utterly moronic story where the infinite fatuousness of the characters just makes you want to bang your head to the wall repeatedly.During the whole time I was struggling to finish the book I had this feeling of something being "off".
The voice of the author & the writing style was pretty seductive: they made me want to believe that it was the terrible clutches of blind, cruel, indomitable FATE the characters were wriggling in helplessly, but at the same time I couldn't help realising that it was just an artistic way of disguising stupidity and trying to present it as "DRAMA".
I love these kind of stories. This is a wonderful tale, intricately woven through generations of different voices. I love the way the saga gently unfolds revealing bits and pieces at a time.5 star -- a must read
(not the content) --The story line was perfect ---but the writing began to feel rushed -- (yet it 'was' time to end it) --I don't know how I would have done a damn thing better --[I'm no writer].I think the book needed a little better editing towards the 'end'---(it felt rushed--& sometimes felt like it was taking 'too' long ---both at the same time) ---What do I know?
Y es que leer a esta escritora es realmente placentero, te seduce con su historia y te adentra en un mundo de sentimientos y descripciones muy bien elaborados y con una excelente caracterización de sus personajes y sus secretos.
El problema es que cuando ya vas por la tercera de sus obras (mi caso con El Jardín Olvidado) empiezas a generar tolerancia al estilo y como buen lector, exiges más que una historia bien contada.
No niego que es un libro muy hermoso, pero probablemente si hubiera sido mi primera lectura de esta autora se habría ganado su quinta estrella.
Me a gustado desde la primera página pero engancharme a sido asta la mitad.
La experiencia con este libro a sido bastante parecida a la de La casa de Riverton (su otro libro) pero me atrevo a decir que este me a gustado un poquito más.
Todo lo qué está escrito está pensado de forma qué conecta con miles de cosas más, los cuentos que hay dentro de la historia -qué son metáforas- me han encantado y este libro me a roto el corazón, si, pero a válido muchísimo la pena.
