https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189953.Year_One_of_the_Russian_Revolution
100 χρόνια μετά... Γραμμένο 10 χρόνια μόλις αργότερα από τα συνταρακτικά γεγονότα... Σχέδιο, χρόνος, πείσμα, θέληση, δυσκολιες κ πολλές θυσίες περιγράφονται με έξτρα λεπτομέρεια...Ένας λαός εξαθλιωμένος με πυγμή κατάφερε να πάρει την τύχη στα χέρια του... Ένας Σερζ επαναστάτης, προικισμένος με το γράψιμο, αποδίδει τον τρόπο και το ύφος των ημερών με εξαιρετική ματιά
So far, interesting to hear Serge's take on the Bolshevik revolution, as he only returned to Russia from france in 1919, and by the time he published this book in 1930 (in France, though he was in the USSR) the net was already ready to close on him and the Second Year of the Revolution never saw the light of day, confiscated in 1936. Just reminds me again how everyone is right from his or her own point of view, and life is a continuous showing of Rashomon.
He understood, however, that violence was objectively necessary in order to stop even worse violence.But he constantly tried to eliminate the worst excesses of violence, to save as many valuable human lives as he could.Work within the revolution but work to reduce its unnecessary harm -- this, according to Serge, was the only right thing to do.It is a great perspective on a great historical event.Some may find the foreword by Peter Sedgwick, who translated the work to English, interesting: it brings evidence which unquestionably exposes the fundamental flaws of the major anti-Bolshevik arguments, that do not square with simple historical facts (such as the idea it was a mere coup not backed by the masses, etc.).Nevertheless, Sedgwick himself also manipulates the historical facts in order to bring the Bolsheviks themselves into question; with arguments of the low quality that we would expect he himself to refute.
Serge provides a thorough analysis of the events of 1917-18 in Russia from the perspective of the working class and its party. Far from a dry history, the author's background in poetry in prose shines through the pages. This book highlights the successes and failures of the Bolsheviks' revolution that modern communists must learn from.
this book is so fucking good. if ur gonna read one on the russian revolution blah blah.the language is totally compelling and serge gives a viewpoint no other historian could
The facts are well-researched and footnoted.Serge skillfully depicts the many factions, including the Allied powers and the Central (German) powers as well as numerous internal groups, wrestling for control or influence of a chaotic Russia during World War One. The eventual predominance of the Bolsheviks was a close-run thing and could not have happened without the genius and focus of Lenin and perhaps also Trotsky and others (but not especially Stalin) as well as dedicated support and heroic sacrifice from the proletariat, support and sacrifice without which the revolution would have died an early death.Contrary to anti-Bolshevik propaganda during and after the revolution, the Bolsheviks were not a band of opportunists interested only in seizing power for themselves, but rather were committed to overthrowing the oppressive Tsarist power structure in effort to form a system operating in favor and with the support and full participation of the common Russian.
