https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23944.Cities_of_the_Red_Night
Looking to the invocation, we find that the book itself is dedicated (amongst many others) to:"Ix Tab, Goddess of Ropes and Snares, patroness of those who hang themselves, to Schmuun, the Silent One, twin brother of Ix Tab, to Xolotl the Unformed, Lord of Rebirth, to Aguchi, Master of Ejaculations, to Osiris and Amen in phallic form, to Hex Chun Chan, the Dangerous One, to Ah Pook, the Destroyer, to the Great Old One and the Star Beast, to Pan, God of Panic, to the nameless gods of dispersal and emptiness, to Hassan i Sabbah, Master of Assassins, [and to] all the scribes and artists and practitioners of magic through whom these spirits have been manifested...."This intercultural pantheon of creative and destructive deities embodies the underlying mythos of the novel, which centers on transmutation of the soul through the simultaneous experience of orgasm and bodily death.
The main plot lines (a pirate story, a detective story, a sci fi/fantasy story) run parallel at first, but frustrate any hopes of proceeding in a straightforward fashion - they get more and more confused, hazy, and collapse into one another, until eventually you have no idea what you're reading.
That was before it began to click on a deeper level, before I saw what was unique about the novel's worlds and why they mattered, even if I didn't know which of those worlds I was on.
But I still give this novel my highest recommendation.
Read it.
AIDS-era Burroughs tale of a killer virus, pirate shenanigans and boys doing what boys do best(guess). After re-reading it I kicked it up one star to four because it reminded me of Alejandro Jodorowsky and Dusan Makavejev movies from the early Seventies. If you liked Holy Mountain or Sweet Movie you'll like this. The plot is a dog's breakfast but I'd read it in small spurts, yes spurts - we need to use that word in a Burroughs review.
WSB doing bathhouse steampunk: a cut-up tale of boys, pirates and cowboys, queens, ejaculating weapons and wangs, private dicks and drugs all set in cities, deserts and jungles situated at various point in time and reality.
There isn't much in the way of character development, most of the players are adolescent in form (as well as sexuality).
Theatrical throughout to the point of sometimes becoming a gay burlesque within a gay burlesque.
Other times it is some good shit.I understand you don't read this sort of thing expecting to make perfect sense of it all.
Extremely strange with loads of extraneous jabber tossed into the mix about naked boys, rectal mucus, and the like. The narrative wasn't terrible but it bounced around so much it was nearly impossible to follow. Some of Burroughs's more autobiographical stuff is phenomenal (i.e. Junky & Queer). But this opener to a series is just too jumbled to be great.
I loved Cities of the Red Night, as well as the Red Night trilogy as a whole.
When discussing literature with friends, I always tell them I think Bill Burroughs should be ranked up there with the greatest of American writers and that, if it weren't for the level of homophobia in this country, he would be considered the American James Joyce.
There is lots of fantasy and sequences that can only be described as dreamlike, and you'll be hard pressed to tell exactly what is happening at any given moment in any of these 3 novels.
This might seem like a really inappropriate example but remember the killer from Seven (played by Kevin Spacey) - he said in one of the closing scenes of the film that, "sometimes you have to hit people over the head with a sledgehammer for them to notice" or something to that effect - well Burroughs was all about doing this in a figurative sense.At times it reads like a post-holocaust (divine?) comedy, at other times like a jump-through-time pulp novel and at other times like a moralistic diatribe.
The virus has been latent since pre-history, before the existence of white-skinned peoples, caused by a meteorite / black hole incident in the Gobi Desert, where peaceful townships suffered mutations when the radiation triggered the virus and turned paradise into The Cities of the Red Night.Burroughs, in an uncharacteristically (mostly) coherent vein, adopts (mostly) linear twin narratives that coalesce to reveal the history and purpose of the virus, whilst explicating and indulging in his usual quack theories, illicit chemical ingestion and homoerotic sexual practices at every step along the way.
There are times when you know something is probably good and you know others think its probably good and for some reason, you should probably read that something but no matter how many times you try, you just can’t ever get over the mind-fuck that ensues.
So I guess I tried to read this again, this time December 2011 and yeah, I would read this during bathroom breaks over the holidays and yes, I even started from the beginning, again.This time around though, I found myself liking the beginning a whole lot more, maybe because I already sort of knew what to expect.
well that was disturbingly dark
So this is a book about jizz I guess? Starts with some really cool settings and interesting ideas but then just sorta devolves into erotic gibberish for the last 200 pages.
É também um livro que eu não gostei de ler…As narrativas, separadas pelo tempo, espaço e sabe-se lá mais o quê (!), tornam-se cada vez mais caóticas e bizarras até um final do qual é muito difícil tirar algum sentido.
Contudo, não foi sua complexidade que me impediu de apreciar a obra.Também não foi a sua violência visceral, fulgurantes descrições homoeróticas ou atmosfera grotesca de luxúria e depravação que me afastaram do livro.
Uma daquelas que se lêem pela experiência que representa ...E é aqui que se esconde o motivo pelo qual eu não apreciei esta leitura: não gostei particularmente da experiência.
Having recently read The Rolling Stone Book Of The Beats got me interested in checking out some Beat writing.
It's been a long time since I read any Burroughs or Kerouac.
The last thing was Burroughs' Exterminator!, which I really enjoyed, so I thought I'd have a go at Cities Of The Red Night.
Of course, the book is full of Burroughs' homosexual, drug and gun fantasies with enough weird animals, plants and insects to make damned sure you don't forget who's book you're reading.
The thing I always appreciate about Burroughs is his writing.
Good grief, this guy's weird!
I cannot handle non-linear books right now.The first two hundred pages uses a dual narrative with the occasional chapter related to a virus.
One story is about a pirate utopia while the other is about a private detective.
It was nice to read Burroughs using a hardboiled style with a detective.
After about two hundred pages, the stories collapse.
He forgets about the stories.
He just stops working on them.After, the protagonists travel in time, they go to other settings, they enter in the bodies of other characters.
The reader is rarely aware of who is character is.
"Cities" affords a logical conclusion to the various literary techniques and experiments employed by Burroughs over three prolific if somewhat confused decades of work.
The straight forward narrative style of his debut novel "Junky" is thankfully reinvented peppered with a Chandler type detective story which sets the early theme of the book.
All the usual Burroughs themes are here, drugs, weapons, disease, virus control, hangings and gay porn.
However, sparingly employing his controversial cut-up techniques interwoven with his various other writing styles Burroughs creates a prose, almost poetic in every line pulling together his masterpiece.
Literature has given me so much and to deprive one of the feeling they get from a good book is horrid to me.
That said, I do respect good literature and William S.
Burroughs "Cities of the Red Nights" does not fall into this category.
On a positive note, "Cities" had some really funny sections and Burroughs always has a unique perspective on life in general.
Too much gay hangings Burroughs, really, this is what you think about?
(I only mention this because he has this in every book.) Read if only a serious Burroughs fan.
Burroughs's best, with reservations.
In the intriguing parts of this 'everything AND the kitchen sink thrown-in' book you get (amongst MANY varying plots and scenes) non-Disneyesque liberal-minded pirate culture, Clem Snide's 'private asshole' detection into wealthy men seeking immortality through sodomy-strangulation, and an episode of a possible black hole in China's distant past that breeds a modern 'radiation virus,' B-23.
All of these are wild, but solid narratives that are ruined by Burroughs's usual bag-of-tricks: his once-revolutionary cut-up method and the tiresome 'Wild Boys' episodes that permeate his oeuvre.
That disappointed me.
This could have been so much better, even a sci-fi classic.Four stars, nonetheless.
Hm. Not aged well, Burroughs.
Or maybe I have, as I was mad about this aged 17 but now it seems tiresome.
Taking the repetitive gay porn out of this would reduce its mass to a pamphlet.
It would be an excellent pamphlet.
The AIDS/Spanish Flu/Love as a virus conceit feels a bit of a vague platform.
The cut-ups in CotRN seems more arbitrary than in earlier stuff, a shame because there's occasionally very interesting Burroughs-gents into astral projection, Shakespeare, ancient races and the state of the cities of red night, various folk ephemera...but these snippets are inevitably interrupted with 15 pages of pirate anus porn.
Somehow both highly readable and largely incomprehensible. I got through half of it in a weekend, so it's no slog, but I still don't think I'm going to finish it. I'm already starting to feel like I've had enough of Burroughs' obsessions and, per numerous other reviews, I'm not even to the part where things get really weird.
This is the only book I've read of Burroughs after Naked Lunch that really stood up to the author's immense powers. It's just as crazy only with a slightly more coherant storyline, but only slightly. Great book with lots of homo-auto-erotic-axphysiation.
I was fascinated at first but then he mixed too many timelines and characters without any purpose and relied on sex too much so i totally lost interest. A weird book like an experiment but maybe one needs to be under drugs to appreciate it as the writer wrote it.
A bleak future, fascist government, servant boys, and balls of opium - It's Burroughs, need I say anything more?
Burroughs weaves a thrilling detective yarn in this novel and really gets down to the elements and structure of society.
They offered only two Burroughs titles, so I chose Cities of the Red Night.It was initially intriguing, but became tedious as the plot alternated between a 20th century private eye and 17th century pirates.
Irresponsible people bore me.Despite the private dick buggering his assistant as part of an ancient hallucinatory ritual to obtain clues to solve the mystery and the pirates buggering each other for fun and profit, Book One offered enough gritty detective action, curious characters and humorous dialog to keep me reading.
Now that I've read Cities of the Red Night I won't bother with Naked Lunch.
It's Burroughs. No one could really say he likes Burroughs. It would be like saying you like to be kicked in the balls or spit in the face. His writing is supposed to shock not to please. Yet, ejaculation, hard ons and drugs were very shocking at those times and in some ways they still are. Altough such arguments are very trasgressive they tend to be rather boring in the long run.
L'universo oscuro di W.S. Burroughs si popola di strani esseri dai poteri magico-sessuali in grado di sottomettere il pianeta intero, allucinazioni dovute a delle droghe immaginarie colorate, e molto altro ancora. Qui il Weird ci dà dentro di brutto. Nel racconto, l'investigatore Clem Snide si mette sulle tracce di alcune persone scomparse in circostanze misteriose. Quello che scopre va al di là di ogni immaginazione.Libro consigliato a chi vuol cominciare Burroughs.
Anthony Burgess referred to this 1981 installment in the canon of Beat writer William Burroughs as "a piece of sexual strangulation" while J.G Ballard referred to the book as Burroughs creating a new "literary mythography".
In this sense, Ballard is right and Burroughs has managed to invent a literature that transports us to different and absurd worlds with abstract skill.
I was pulled into too deep a literary trance and wooed too much by the strength of the language to work at condemning the book for its lack of apparent messages.
Whereas, for other authors, it might prove a diverting or comical (unwritten) pastime to imagine what it might be like if all of their characters--from every time and space--were to meet over drinks, Burroughs can't seem to resist transporting his entire cast into hallucinatory, ritualistic, gay bacchanals, frequently spiced up with hangings or gun play and always featuring copious technicolor (and sometimes poisonous) ejaculations.
During and in between these sensory explosions, his sex-ready, fringe-inhabiting adolescents wage war against the establishments that Burroughs doesn't like, for instance, the church, imperial forces and women.The stories that drive the first two "books" of this novel are both gripping (and comparatively light on the orgies).
You know, I'm starting to think that after writing 'junky' and 'naked lunch', Mr. Burroughs just re-wrote 'naked lunch' in various guises because once you've read that one you've kind of read all the others.
Whether they were all exorcisms for some kind of disgust Mr. Burroughs had with the world, I don't know.
There's a private eye investigating the disappearance of some boys, possibly involving some cult and some nasty form of fever.
Meanwhile back in time a boy boards a ship, gets kidnapped by transexual pirates and gets introduced to a new revolutionary, homoerotic society.

