https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64895.Cod
A bit fishy...(I couldn't resist) Figure 1.  The majestic seafaring cod.Figure 2.  The majestic cod as us landlubbers know it. Cod - one of the most common fish in the sea - provided food for millions.  What started as simple fishing boats has ballooned into enormous trawlers that were capable of draining the see of a once limitless population. Invention and innovation led to decimation of the natural cod population. Figure 3. A fishing trawler - capable of obtaining thousands of fish in a singl
The majestic seafaring cod.Figure 2.
Cod - one of the most common fish in the sea - provided food for millions.
What started as simple fishing boats has ballooned into enormous trawlers that were capable of draining the see of a once limitless population.
Invention and innovation led to decimation of the natural cod population.
I enjoyed following the history of cod - who knew such a common fish held such a deep and dark history.
Nature, the ultimate pragmatist, doggedly searches for something that works.
But as the cockroach demonstrates, what works best in nature does not always appeal to us.
Politics and industry play such key (and intertwined) roles in its discovery and ongoing exploration (exploitation?) that the reader will surely come away with a more thorough understanding of the complexity of the fish.
Kurlansky returns throughout the piece to discuss the importance of cod fishing to Newfoundland (Canada), New England (America), and much of the country of Iceland.
With the added bonus of numerous recipes pulled from over many centuries, Kurlansky ties the discussion together and permits the reader to explore the culinary side of the topic, a less confrontational aspect of cod fishing.
Are you prepared for the excitement of reading a review about a book about fish?
Without it, long distance sea exploration in medieval times (the era, not the ren fair) would've been just about impossible.And now, ladies and gentlemen....THE MAJESTIC COD!No?Okay, it looks more like this...Not very majestic, but oh so important.Cod is a particularly unique fish.
Though he does spend some time on the history, a very interesting history indeed, much of Kurlansky's book is about how man recently almost wiped the cod off the face of the earth...or to be specific, netted it off the bottom of the ocean.
I got to chose last in the class from the book list, and so...
Cod. I actually kinda liked it at the time.
It was short, humorous at times, but went a little above and beyond with the fish so that the world turned and society advanced all thanks to Cod. Kinda made Cod look like God. I actually suggested this book to the school librarian who was a family friend, for her to read on the way to her vacation.
She came back and told me that it was the worst book she has ever read.
probably not because of the cod...
There is no way you could ever get me to eat cod, despite my partial Norwegian background where they eat a variety of disgusting fish dishes, the most famous being lutefisk, a kind of rotten, spoiled gelatinous mess. But I loved this book. Kurlansky is another John McPhee, supplying all sorts of interesting details. Turns out cod has been extremely important to civilization and almost as essential as bread. It was easy to fish and preserve and probably made discovery of North America by the Vikings possible. Fascinating.
I like Kurlansky's informative-yet-chatty style, and I love the angle of view in the book...what's cod done for us as a species?
What's cod made possible in the world?
Little stuff like that was built on the white-fleshed back of a formerly abundant fish.I like cod.
I remember the world reaction to Iceland going to a 200-mile fishing limit with a teenager's detached bemusement: "So?
Iceland's post-colonial economy was built on cod; Canada's Maritime provinces relied on it in those days (and on unemployment payments from the rest of Canada now that cod's commercially extinct); Norway and the UK want all there is to have so their fisheries industries don't wither away and leave them hungry as well as sailor-less.Kurlansky wrote a very enjoyable read about a very important food-source and industrial product.
While one would think a book entirely devoted to codfish would enervate, if not actually annoy, in fact this work is a fascinating examination of the human tendency to greed as played out on a global scale. This is easily equal in quality and complexity, to my mind, with a novel by Dostoevsky, for instance. It follows the trail of guilt and rapacity from early times to today's sad, inadequate harvest and is witty in to the bargain. A great read.
Additionally, we are tenacious in the face of change and adaptive when change is inevitable.Cod gives us a glimpse into the fish that continues to impact our lives in North America, Europe, Britain, Iceland, and many other lands.
This fish really gets around.This book shows us the path the cod has taken throughout history, with the help of human hands, ingenuity, greed, and death: from salting/curing/drying for consumption during long voyages to doling out a cheap, nutritious meal to slaves to freezing breaded fish fillets and fish sticks.
It creates new technology to confront new sets of problems.”“Nature remains focused on survival.”***It looks like Costco purchases wild Alaskan cod and wild Icelandic cod.
A fascinating review of the history of the Atlantic cod fisheries.
As I do not eat fish it is very unlikely I will ever try them but reading them is an added view of the historical time in which they were written and for most of the book I quite enjoyed them.
At the end however one encounter about forty pages worth of recipes and I might take those slowly.Aside from the overdose of Cod recipes at the end I would thoroughly endorse this book, I was delighted to read such an expanded story to the basic overexploitation story of the Grand banks.
I enjoyed this lively little book about the history of cod.
What could seem like an obscure topic for a history book turned out to be an entertaining and very informative narrrative about a species of fish that has sparked war, shaped international political discourse, impacted diverse cultures, markets, and the environment.
The relative history focuses on the Nordic waters so it makes sense, but I expected a little more about the Pacific fishing dynamic.
In contrast with Salt: A World History by the same author, which I read last year, the flow in Cod was much more organized and overall I found it to be a better book.
Animals eat one another without qualm; civilized men consume one another by due process of law."The fight for fish is for food and control of the oceans.This book was copyrighted 1997.
Fishermen used to catch cod on shore with traps.Petty Harbour banned mass fishing techniques such as longlining and gillnetting since the 1940s.
But it was not done for conservation, it was done to make room for all the boats.The people of Petty Harbour are "at the wrong end of a 1,000-year fishing spree." Cod are omniverous.
Cod has to be fished out of water that is 34 to 50 degrees.
Additionally I worked every college summer in Harwich Port on the grounds of Thompson’s Clam Bar the #1 volume family restaurant on the Cape and largest seasonal restaurant east of the Mississippi where many fish (cod) & chips were served, along with the adjacent Wychmere Harbor Club, one of the most photographed private clubs in Massachusetts, also owned by Frank Thompson, where quality broiled cod were often presented on a white and blue china plate.
Fish Are Boring and I Don’t Really Like ThemCodRating: 1.5/5Summary: This is the history and almost everything else you could want to know (or not know) about cod.
At one point Kurlansky explains how sterling became a term for the British and that it means of assured value.
There is a wealth of information in this book and I know some people will like it or completely love it.
I don’t even like to eat plain fish.
However, I don’t hate the book like I did in high school and I can appreciate the work Kurlansky put into this.
For instance, it is quite possible that Basque fishermen discovered the New World decades before Columbus, and that Columbus may have known this.
So much of American history (and wealth) is connected with cod fishing that it is quite sobering to see us come to the possible end of a species of whom Alexandre Dumas wrote, "It has been calculated that if no accident prevented the hatching of the eggs and each egg reached maturity, it would take only three years to fill the sea so that you could walk across the Atlantic dryshod on the backs of the cod."An accident, however, has happened.
Great book!
I wondered if I would like it , but I was surprised to really enjoy it.
Kurlansky does a great and fascinating job in telling the story of Atlantic Cod fishing over the past 1000 years, tying it to world history and politics in general.
As a Portuguese gal now living near Cape Cod, was great to read about this fish that is a mainstay of the Azorean diet & which used to be central to the Massachusetts economy.
Sad bottom line: our Atlantic cod is disappearing due to political mismanagement & overfishing.
This story tells the history of cod fishing, the Basque were one of the first grps.
Cod fishing brought wealth to many nations, became a treasured part of many diets (Its high protein count made it a valuable source of protein in the centuries when it was hard to find.), and created a fishing lifestyle for millions.
This book is also a story of environmental hubris; the legend is that if every fish egg reached its full maturity, one could have walked across the Atlantic on the backs of cod!
Cod has virtually disappeared, leaving many fishing villages as ghost towns.

I read this book after visiting Fort Louisbourg on Cape Breton Island, N.S. and being impressed by stories of oceans of cod ("one could just reach in and pull out codfish"). I'd had no idea how important cod was for the island and for trade in general (I'd never really given it much thought at all). Kurlanksy offers a lively, historical and very entertaining "biography of the fish that changed the world." And with the advent of this book, the publishing industry has churned out schools, nay, oceans of books about single theme histories...[that last part for David-you-know-who-you-are!].
In 2001, I was on vacation with my wife in Sydney, Australia.
I decided that I was entitled to buy a new book to read while travelling.
We went into one of Sydney's best book stores, and after much thought, I chose this book.
My wife looked at it and remarked, "You chose the most boring book in the store." After that, I read her all the interesting parts of the book until she was finally forced to admit that maybe it was not the most boring book in the store after all.
That's faint praise, of course.
It's a great book.
A much more focused narrative than Salt, about Atlantic cod fisheries and the ways that inexpensive, salt-preserved fish changed diets and economies in Europe from the middle ages to the present. The central story of the book, though, is the way what was once regarded as a limitless resource has been fished to the edge of collapse, and the affect that has had on the communities that depend on it, and the difficulty of harnessing competing economic entities to work to restore the populations.
In fact, West India was the commercial name for the lowest-quality salt cold," write Mark Kurlansky.In addition, though New England ships were not slave carriers they did supply salt cod to slave merchants who used the fish to buy slaves.
By the first decade of the eighteenth centruy, more than 300 ships left Boston in a good year for the West Indies."The great danger with single subject books, such as this one, is that - as the little girl observed, "This book tells me more about dolphins than I wanted to know." Fortunately Kurlansky avoids this pitfall.
And while Item A might be something I had limited use for, I would gladly take as much of Items X, Y and Z as I could get.You might say that there are two kinds of hunger.
Such is my hunger for golden cups that I will gladly kill every last deer in my hunting grounds to convert them into more golden cups.
Finally, through my own folly, there will be no deer left to satisfy even the first kind of hunger.Kurlansky’s book charts the effects of this same process on the humble codfish.
This book takes history, from the discovery of the Americas, to present-day, and twists it slightly, shining a light on the events of the past as seen from a different angle.
I know about the arguments of which European actually discovered the New World, and I also know about the fishing wars between the British and the Spanish, but to see it from the angle of the fish, so-to-speak, is really refreshing.For example, in the cod's history the only thing of importance that happened during the two 20th century world wars was that they were left alone, and fish stocks recovered.
The greatest impact of these wars happened afterwards, as modern warfare technology e.g. radar, was applied to the industry of fishing.
Interesting book (I've actually read it twice, about 2 years apart), who knew that cod was so central to the history of western Europe and North America.
The book makes an argument I'd never heard before that Basques from Spain had been coming to North America regularly before Columbus ever got here, but never declared it cause they didn't want anyone else pouching their fishing grounds (apparently when the first British got here they even commented on all the Basque ships, but since they had never formally declared the ground for Spain -- why would they?
This past month Cod was my suggestion for book club.
Kurlansky takes the history of a fish and makes it an interesting story - about how the fishery influenced politics, nation-building and environmentalism (to a lesser extent).
The book will definitely give you an understanding of how long industry (in this case a particular fishery) has been highly connected to and motivating politics.
that it seems a bit unbeleiveable that I had never read about this fishery until now (and not just in K-12 history, but as a history major in college).
Still, I have no doubt that the fishery has been influential throughout history and this was a highly interesting read.
What a surprising and excellent read!
Kurlansky entitles this book as a "Biography" of the fish that changed the world, which was evident by the history presented.
Amazing that wars, and revolutions fought over it.
Economies greatly depended on it.
And the settlement of North America was driven by it.
As a "New Englander", I have eaten my share of cod as well as chowders.
I found the history fascinating (beginning with the Vikings in 1000 in the Mediterranean world where salted meats prevailed in the hot, humid climates).
Through other centuries, including freezing fish by Birdseye.
Unfortunately in the 20th century were fishing stocks became depleted.
I was completely taken by this book. Kurlansky's simplicity of language belies a thoroughly researched study on how one fist has molded Western society for centuries.Alternating between humor, jarring data, and the sadness that comes with the decline of a species, the author braids a captivating history of a fish lacking the fame of other marine beings such as marlins and barracudas.Recommended by my author and friend Zak Johnson, this book is a must. I enjoyed it much more than 'Salt' by the same author.
Re-read 2017One of Mark Kurlansky's wonderfully written micro histories. I was surprised that I still liked it as much the second time around that doesn't always happen with history books on a small specific subject. I learned quite a bit about the the fishery from it's beginnings after the discovery of the North Banks too it's almost closing due to over fishing. It's a great book to see what the glut and disappearance of a specific food, as well as the death of an industry can do to a country.
Like Kurlansky's other history on salt, Cod tells the story of the Cod fish and how it has influenced civilization as we know it. This book also has a distinctively environmentalist angle. Whereas salt it an almost inexhaustible mineral, the Cod fish population has been greatly reduced by over-fishing and bad fishing practices such as dragging. Although not as good as Salt this book is still one that shouldn't be missed.
Interesting book on the mighty cod. Much of the focus is on fisheries of the NE US and Newfoundland but it does remind us that many of the discoveries of the New World had actually been undertaken many years before by fishermen, whalers and sealers. Written 20 years ago, it is a bit dated at the start and end but the middle bits on the history is full of fun facts and easy to read.
