https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239924.Blood_of_Amber
Picking up where Trumps of Doom left off, Merle continues trying to figure out who's trying to kill him.
Along the way, he discovers more about his friend Luke Raynard, saves the family from being killed at the funeral of one of their own, learns of previously unknown members of the royal family, and discovers he has an ally of sorts that can switch bodies.
But can he figure out how these clues fit together before he is killed and Amber is destroyed...Blood of Amber has more than its share of twists.
I'm still not sure who the body-swapper really is or what he/she has in store for Merle.
Well, that took forever.Merlin is boring. His life is boring; his problems are boring. And now he's in Wonderland. WTF Zelazny? How's the LSD?Seriously. I will keep reading the series, because potential. And completion. But I miss Corwin I think more than Merlin does. I like the potential of sorcery, but I really think this thing is being dragged out for no damn reason. Why were the first five books so much more engaging and fantastical? Even the 900th trip through Shadow held my interest better than this.Well, not everything can be perfect. Carry on.
Faced with the fact that a friend has been calculatedly deceiving him about his identity, motivations, occupations, and affinity for close to a decade, and the fact that he had no idea whatsoever, after repeated attempts on his life and freedom by this friend, the protagonist chooses to trust him "because he knows him." Faced with the fact that an unknown presence has repeatedly possessed innocent people, some for many years, in order to surveil him and his friend, including seducing both of them, and has worked at cross purposes to him on a number of occasions, he decides that he should, essentially, trust this entity implicitly, and should not share any information about either of these two with anyone else.
No one whatsoever should admit to liking these books, at least at the level of plot and characterization.
A lot of characters arrive and depart, almost on a revolving door basis, and don't add much to the story, and more are introduced in passing - e.g. two more siblings of his fathers turn up in the form of Trumps (the cards the royal family use to contact each other) whom I believe were mentioned in the first series as being thought dead long before Corwin was born - and I would guess these characters probably feature in later volumes.
One thing I noticed early on in the series that I've failed to mention is that when Zelazny moves his character through shadow it reads almost like poetry, not the forced trying to be like Tolkien poetry that once fantasy writer seemed to have to insert to have a "proper" fantasy. The descriptions aren't formatted like poetry it just sounds like a very poetic movement.
საინტერესო რაღაცეები ხდება :3 ისე მართლა, ცოტა უფრო პატარა სანათესაო რომ ჰქონოდათ ამბერის პრინცებს, გაცილებით უფრო მშვიდად იცხოვრებდნენ :))P.S. (view spoiler)[ აჩრდილის ბორბალმა მამა რომ დაუძახა ჩავიხოცე :D (hide spoiler)]
What I love most about these books is that there's no ultimate evil entity, in the end pretty much every character has a good and a bad side, everyone has their own vendettas and ambitions, most of them understandable.I feel that the author hasn't wasted a single line with irrelevant conversation in this book, every chapter in the plot thickens, and every little remark, flashback or picture on a trump is important to the story and will eventually come back.
The family also seems to be growing each chapter.I'm not sure how I feel about the fact that Merlin seems MUCH more powerful than Corwin.
This part of the series is picking up again - now that I've adjusted to Merlin as a main character (even though he's oddly similar to Corwin), as well as the seemingly new rules surrounding magic (Marlin is just a spellslinger now?).I still am not enjoying this arc as much as the initial 5, but they move fast and are still very entertaining. I look forward to finishing out the entire arc.
To be quite honest, I didn't find this installment to be interesting at all. It seemed to drag on forever and, like all the Amber books, has chapters that are far too long for their own good. The book just couldn't hold my attention or interest and is probably the weakest installment for Amber to date, in my personal opinion.
I like these books even better than the original Amber series. Not quite the same magic of originality, but a much tighter and more suspenseful story. With nice touches of humor.
Том втори от „Хрониките на Амбър” съдържа поредните четири романа (части от 4 до 7) от многотомната фентъзи сага на доайена Роджър Зелазни. Легендарната поредица е задължителна за феновете на жанра и съвсем с право е включена в колекцията на издателство „Бард” „Велики майстори на фентъзи и фантастика”. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Turning the last page in the Blood of Amber, the 7th of 10 books in the Chronicles of Amber, I find myself asking the same question that has dogged me throughout the series so far: Did Zelazny have an editor?
Zelazny continues to flush pages of prose full of redundancy, using the same word many times across short spans, and explaining the same ideas, thoughts, and imagery far too frequently for comfort.
While my interest in the series has waned, my promise to complete the series remains in tact, and I will begin shortly book 8 of the Chronicles of Amber.
I thought Zelazny really stepped it up on this one.The previous book in the series, Trumps Of Doom, featured a new character as the protagonist/narrator; Merlin, the son of Corwin of Amber, who narrated the first five books.
In fact, the Merlin we meet in Trumps came across as a bit of a chump, and we still see some of that in Blood Of Amber as well(seriously, he can't figure out that the one-eyed, one-eared wolf that hates him and wants to kill him is actually his one-eyed, one-eared shapeshifter brother who hates him and wants to kill him?).
Going into Blood of Amber and tens of pages into it, it felt like this was going to bring the second five book set back on track and move towards answering the various questions the series was bringing up.
For a quite a while the story was really good, with less of the 'filler pages' that plague some of the books in the series and more interesting ideas.
Somewhere in this book it became aggressively difficult to keep reading, as each turned page never went anywhere.
Book 7 of 10 of the Amber Chronicles.
These books just keep getting better.
The story structure is much better in books 6 and 7 than the previous installments.
Lots of mystery in the last two and it leaves questions unanswered at the end.
One thing I am concerned about are the endings.
They just don't quite satisfy.
Book 5 in the series was the end of Corwin as the protagonist in the first five books in the series, and I can't say I was completely satisfied with that ending.
It did wrap things up sufficiently, but left me still wanting.
Tõeseid tähelepanekuid elust enesest:Kõige rohkem näis talle aga muret tegevat see, et lindprii Dalt võis veel elus olla. [-]"Kõigepealt, ma nägin, kuidas Benedict ta läbi torkas. Reeglina kipub selline asi inimese karjäärile punkti panema," ütles Random."Vintske vend," pakkusin. "Või meeletu vedamine. Või mõlemad koos." (lk 54)
I wholeheartedly recommend all the books from the Amber Chronicles. Once you read the first novel you'll stop only after you'll have read them all. I've re-read this book and the whole series at least three-times. Even after all these years I still rate it as one of the best series I've ever read.
re-read in audio format. Will review soon at www.fantasyliterature.com
Yazarın büyünün yapılışını değil de, bu yeteneğin ardındaki gücü ve felsefesini betimleme şekli beni mest ediyor.
But to find a novel 7th in the series as incomplete as this, is very disappointing; especially when its predecessor, the first of the 5-part Merlin cycle of the 10-part Amber series, was also just a part of the jigsaw, a prelude like The Gunslinger.Of course, Zelazny is a great writer, especially in imagination, particularly in character and dialogue, and usually keeps you with him in his narrative passages, even when it stands for dialogue in monologue that it is the thinking and workings of the principal trying to solve all the conflicting mysteries the author spins for us; but he can leave you floundering in the shadows during some of his longer descriptive prose.
Here's my take(it may include some of the last book in my review)So there's this guy named Merlin who lives in Shadow...he's got a friend and an ex-girlfriend.His friend turns out to want revenge and tries to kill him every year for something his family did.
She's killed by a big dog...that same dog turns out to attack Merlin while he's out in Shadow and Merlin thinks the dog is a shapeshifter....Meanwhile, the friend who's been trying to kill Merlin comes to him in his hour of need and tells Merlin that it was his mom who has been trying to kill him...so Merlin saves his friends mom and fights some other wizard inside 'the pattern', then Merlin escapes into Wonderland?
Well it's turning into a 3/5 nonstop extravaganza.
The pros remain the fascinating world creation and basic concept the cons still remain a poorly constructed narrative with characters who bear little relation to anything fully rounded.
Merle repeatedly "trusts" people with the only justification being he knows them ignoring the fact that they have repeatedly betrayed him in the past so how well does he really know them.
And the lack of explanation of his powers means that the author can just create any spell deus ex machina to get him out of any trap, frustratingly poor technique.
However seven books in I intend to finish them.
Історія про Мерліна все більше скидається на фентезі-фентезі, бо кількість магії, як і таємниць зростає. Ну, не дарма ж він Мерлін, ага. І, о, я жалілася на нестачу сильних жіночих образів, от один є, щоправда, до кінця його природа, як і автентична стать, невідома, але це вже дрібниці. Персонажі попереднього п'ятикнижжя стали зовсім декоративними, але, на щастя, у Мерля є власне цікаве товариство і не менш знакові вороги. Далі буде...
And thus starts the filler sequence for this pentology... Zelazny mixes in new bizarre teasers with little resolution and his thin characters at times act incongruously (within the framework of the universe he has created) and worse, the main character Merlin acts incredibly obtusely. And again, I am less than fond of his narrative.I've now read farther in this series than in the past 30 years... Let's see if I can beat that "record"...
Better than Merlin’s first book but I still didn’t feel like this was at the same level as Corwin’s story. There seems to be a lot of reflecting and inner monologue at odd times and Merlin’s insistence in trusting Luke seems unrealistic. Roger still writes a beautiful book but I’m not yet in love with the life and times of Merlin like I was with his father.
Meh, I guess? Plot aside, the quality of the writing in the Merlin books is lower. Sure, Corwin and Merlin were narrating so maybe its the voice, but the philosophical and poetic richness of the first five books has vanished, replaced with clunky exposition.
პრინციპში კორვინის ციკლშიც ყველაზე სუსტი მეორე წიგნი იყო ჩემი აზრით, მერე უფრო გაქაჩა. ვნახოთ აბა აქ რა იქნება...
Цикл подзатянулся. Но тема Хаоса наконец раскрыта!
The second series of Amber books is great fun, although maybe not as awesome as the first five. This book continues Merle's adventures quickly moving from place to place, a quick and exciting read.
Excellent part of the series.
