https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/434764.Believing_Christ
The concept of this book is pretty simple: Robinson distinguishes between "believing IN Christ" and "believing Christ." The idea is that while many of us believe in Christ's divinity - His role as the Son of God and the Savior of mankind - too many don't believe Christ when He says He can save us personally.
Robinson always shares an important "saved by grace" emphasis that is helpful in an all-too-often works-based Mormon culture.
I think the distinction Robinson is after is captured in the distinction between "faith" and "hope." We must have faith that Christ has the power to save and hope that we will in the end receive salvation.Still, a lesson that most of us need.
It's like having a bishop on a personal retainer.
I feel like I'm being counselled by a very wise and understanding friend who truly "gets it".
I read this book often so I'll never forget it.
p.s. It was recommended to me by my bishop, a really nice guy :) re-read: I really think this book has done more for the LDS community than any other non-scriptural publication ever printed.
I can't really say enough good things about this book.
If you're LDS and you haven't read this yet, I highly, highly recommend it.
A truly wonderful book.
Some wonderful ladies from the Baptist church came by my door and showed me the steps to accept Christ and spoke of how we are saved by grace and not by works.
I really felt like this book answered many of my questions about the interplay of grace and works.
If I am keeping my covenants, then I am perfect-in-Christ right now and can be assured of my salvation right now.
I can continue to working out my salvation and pushing myself to be better but I don’t have to be worried and whether I’m going to make it or not.
The balance between being grateful and dependent on grace and being aware that our works (repentance) make us worthy to receive the gift is a fine balance.To think we are unworthy of the Atonement because we are too sinful or to assume we can achieve our own salvation by making ourselves perfect means that we do not believe Christ.
This is one of my favorite books! I read it at somewhat of a turning point in my life and it dramatically changed my outlook and understanding of the atonement and the purpose of life. It teaches such simple concepts, but illustrates them so clearly.
I love this book--a short, easy to read explanation of the Atonement, grace and works.
The part I appreciate the most is that at times I lose focus on what matters most in our faith--I get hung up on the good I need to do, the rules I need to follow, how successful I or my children are being, and I forget the Christ came not just as an example but as a Savior.
I need to re-read this periodically to remember that I need the Atonement in my life at all times and that no one else except for Christ could do this work.
This was my second time through this book. I think Robinson is fundamentally wrong about grace, and the book is riddled with contradictions as he tries to grapple with the flaws in his theological model. I was also stunned by how exhaustingly redundant Robinson's writing style is. Had he been more precise and careful, this book could easily have been just a lengthy essay, instead. Still, it's obviously a crucial work in Mormon thought, and has done a lot of good for Mormonism.Read in conjunction with these posts (http://feastuponthewordblog.org/2012/...).
The author had some great insights. It deffinately got me thinking about my personal faith, and affinity to do the things which are commanded in the scriptures. I would have to say that the book was somewhat booring in the begining. The basic premise of the book was believing what Christ taught, rather than believing that he existed. That point seemed to drag on and on, but picked up again after sharing a few stories, and giving a unique perspective from Christ's vantage point. It's a quick read, and quoted several times a year in sacrament meetings everywhere.
This book probably deserves more stars than I gave it, but I had had it recommended to me by so many people that I really had high hopes. I was told it would help me better understand the Atonement. In that, the book ultimately failed. I have had much more success with personal prayer, scripture study, and life experience.I feel obligated, however, to give the book at least two stars, because I know that it has indeed helped others, and it was not offensive in any way.
This book was life changing. I listened to it on cd. I had not realized that I believed IN Christ more than I BELIEVED Him when He says I will be forgiven. Seriously, insightful and life-changing. I recommend it to anyone who wants to improve their relationship with Christ.
This was a wonderful book to read-- especially during the Easter season. The author gives several analogies and examples that help us to understand our relationship with the Savior and what He has done for us and how that can apply to our everyday lives. I would highly recommend it.
A member of our Metro Jail Branch asked for a copy of this book so I re-read it to refresh my memory and I still love it. Such simple and profound words to describe the great love of Christ for each one of us.
So good. Provides stories and examples of how to really trust Jesus Christ. Also gives insights into how believing Christ helps us live a better life and hope for a bright eternity.
The parable of the bicycle is a classic, as it really does teach us how to understand the atonement of Jesus Christ. I also love how this book teaches us that we don't need to become perfect in an instant, but just continue to try in the little ways that we can.
The explanation of our charge to "be ye therefore perfect" is brilliant. It is the best I've heard (read).
LOVED all the analogies in this book, made the atonement much more understandable.
I remember being in Brother Robison's new testament class, and we were reading Paul, and he stopped, and turned to the D&C, then to the Book of Mormon, and pointed out each of them saying the same thing as Paul about Grace, and then he said...
The change happens by the grace of Christ, through the power of His atonement and blood.You asked what the Book of Mormon means when it says that we must be saved "from" our sins and not "in" them.
To insist that salvation comes by works alone, that we can earn it ourselves without needing the grace of God, insults the mercy of God and mocks the sacrifice of Jesus Christ in our behalf.
On the other hand, to insist that salvation comes by belief alone and that God places no other obligations upon the believer insults the justice of God..."Robinson also addresses the paradox of many who believe IN Christ but do not believe Christ.
The plan of salvation is awe-inspiring but the belief in the infinite atonement of Jesus Christ is the crucial element for the plan to succeed in each of our lives.
I first read this book in college, and it had such a huge influence on me.
I don't know if I just read it at a time in my life when I needed it, or what, but I really loved it.
I have felt that SO many times in my life.
This book really helped me keep things in perspective.In fact, I let someone borrow this book years ago who never returned it, and I can't remember who.
So, whoever you are, if you have my book, please return it!
I liked some of the analogies he presents (though the bicycle one is not my favorite of them) and I felt that what he was attempting to get across is true.
If it's not cannonized, or currently preached over the pulpit in General Conference I would rather form my own opinions than read someone else's.I will definitely keep this book on my shelf.
It's not false doctrine by any means, and God bless him if his thoughts help someone come closer to Christ.
We just have to do our part, which is to do our level best and keep trying until the end!!
We are not perfect and will never be on this earth, He doesn't ask us to be perfect, He asks us to do our best and repent when we fall short, and keep trying.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
The key for me is to seek His spirit in sincere prayer every day, because I can't do it without His help.
I learned that I AM good enough, and with His help I can keep trying and learning and seeking His spirit until the end.
I can't believe it took me so long to get to this book, but I'm glad I finally read it.
It wasn't much of a page turner for me, but I learned a lot.
I guess "learned" might not be the best word.
There were definitely some interesting facts and some great parables in there, but what this book really did for me was change my perspective.
I knew about the atonement and understood its significance on an intellectual level prior to reading this book, but now I better understand the difference between understanding and believing.
Knowing about the Atonement is important, but truly believing is essential.
For such a small book, I felt like it was jam-packed with good stuff. The story in Chapter 2 about the author's wife, Janet, was so close to my own predicament, I felt like this book was meant just for me. None of the doctrines are new, but they are set forth in such a plain, repetitive, and descriptive way, I feel like I really GOT it. I recommend this book to anyone, particularly anyone who feels burdened by life in general or who just can't seem to live up to all the demands they have placed upon them.
This is a great book. It teaches about Jesus Christ and the meaning of the atonement in a way that makes it very simple to understand. I guess it has almost become cliche since so many have read it and can understand it and now use similar metaphors in trying to explain the atonement and how it applies to us. It is written to an LDS audience (members of Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints) but could certainly by appreciated by people of other faiths as well.
While I respect this book for making grace a part of Mormon discourse, I disagree with his conception of grace, which is purely sequential and instrumental in the parable of the bicycle. I prefer, and I believe the scriptures support, a traditional concept of grace as unearned, unmerited, and happening at all times and instances of our lives. While this book has its merits, it does not do full justice to grace.
This book really touched my heart. The author put in so many of his own stories and personal experiences that the lessons he taught were almost tangible. I couldn't help but feel good as I read it. Come to think of it, I ought to read it again - it's not a very long one at all. And I should probably read the sequel.Really, you should read it. It will help you visualize your relationship with the Savior. And like I said, it's not very long.
A must-read for any Christian, but particularly for Mormons. This is what it's all about, boiled down to the one basic thing. So often, we get caught up in the little things of life, and forget the main thing. If it were up to me, this would be required reading of any baptized Latter-day Saint. An amazing life-changing read that will (hopefully) never leave you.
A great help to anyone who has fallen into overemphasizing the second half of "we are saved by grace after all that we can do". A strong reminder of our place relative to Christ's in our salvation - that he is the Savior and we are the ones being saved and how that gentle fact can carry us through the overwhelming pressure to be perfect as a Christian today.
Everyone needs a Savior. Thank goodness Jesus atoned for all of us. Satan tries hard to convince people that they're too wicked to be saved, that they don't deserve it. This book helps you understand that no one "deserves it," but by His grace, the Lord wants to redeem everyone if they will come unto Him. And believe Him.
This book really helped me understand my own faith better and my relationship with Jesus Christ. Don't misunderstand me: certainly the Bible and the Book of Mormon are much more inspirational and important reads. However, Robinson does an excellent job of explaining what we should already know based on the doctrines taught by the scriptures. A short but excellent read.
