https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125560.Piano_Lessons_Can_Be_Murder
#13 "Play it again, hands!"Jerome (Jerry) just moved in and has found a lovely piano in pristine condition in the attic of their new home. Consequently his parents decide to get him piano lessons. Besides having strange dreams about his piano teacher, Jerry also starts seeing the ghost of the piano's previous owner! And this ghost has a warning for Jerry... "Stay away from my piano!" This was a meh for me.
A man who looks just like Santa Claus without a beard comes to the house to teach Jerry piano lessons.
Of course what's really wrong can't be fixed by a shrunken head.......(view spoiler)[ One of the most awesome scenes is where the ghost finally reveals she has no hands, raising her stumps to let Jerry see.Dr. Shreek turns out to be a robot, and the janitor/mechanical genius of the school turns out to be an evil scientist who lures people into taking lessons at the school and then kills them, harvesting their hands (which are too complicated to replicate mechanically) to use them to play perfect music over and over again.
3.5 but rounding up to 4 stars because this would have definitely freaked me out reading this as a kid! Full review to come
I wasn’t a huge fan of this one as a kid, but loved re-reading it now! One of the best titles for sure and a thrilling plot to match.
It's basically a rip-off from every other goosebumps books.The plot was cliche and totally predictable.
Here,- The MC and his family moves to an creepy and old house.- He finds a piano in the attic, and obviously brings it down.
Ever)- His parents insists he should learn to play, so they put him under the tutor of a creepy old guy.- The neighborhood girl and a ghost warns him away from his new teacher and his school.
(hide spoiler)] DUHAll in all, I wasn't very impressed with this book, even if it was my second time reading it.

***Rated by my daughter***
Αν και είναι ένα βιβλίο που δεν ξεκινάς να το διαβάζεις έχοντας πολύ υψηλές προσδοκίες, καταλήγεις να ενθουσιαστείς, όχι για την πρωτοτυπία του, αλλά για τον τρόπο που χειρίζεται ο συγγραφέας ένα τόσο -θεωρητικά- κοινότυπο υλικό, χτίζοντας ατμόσφαιρα που σου προκαλεί ανατριχίλα και σου κόβει την ανάσα, ακονίζοντας τα πιο ακραία σου ένστικτα.
What's not to love about a Goosebumps book about a crazy piano teacher who replaces kids' hands with robot hands so they never make mistakes? I keep this on my studio bookshelf just for fun. Oops...guess that was a spoiler, huh? Sorry I spoiled it for all of you planning to run out and read it.
I mean its got a somewhat haunted school, a haunted piano which is associated with a warning ghost, mechanical horrifying teachers and robots, selfish parents, troublesome cats and hands that type on their own.
I didn't like the mechanism, the hand musicians, the large robots, the entire musical school was a disaster but just on the other side the piano ghost and the cat was awesome.
30℅ of the book involves Jerry waking up, visiting the piano room and freaking out and then trying to explain his parents what he saw.
درست به خاطرش ندارم چون خیلی وقت پیش خوندم و اگر ریویو مینویسم براش برای اینه که بگم از ترسناکها بود:))
درست به خاطرش ندارم چون خیلی وقت پیش خوندم و اگر ریویو می‌نویسم براش برای اینه که بگم از ترسناک‌ها بود:))
More like Piano Lessons can be BORING. #burn
When I was a pre-teen and started reading Goosebumps I enjoyed them very much.
I started reading the books featured on the Tv Show, and then I got to read this one.
In truth, this is the best book I ever read in the goosebump series.I usually am very critical about Goosebumps, on the lack of originality, absurd twists in the ending and stupid morals (but again, Goosebumps are mostly for kids).
However, I find this book to be very well written, posessing a good and interesting plot, doesn't have the usual absurd twists, and is really really scary.
L. Stine deserves my congratulations for writting this.
I took piano lessons when I was a kid so I can relate to this story.
Except I didn't have a piano nor did I have "good hands." My hands are so terrible even mosquitoes wont go near them!
I'm not really sure what to think of this book.
I enjoyed the final few chapters.
As in all Goosebumps books, the action picks up right around chapter 20.
Love thee twist near the end.
The book was interesting, it wasn't boring.
It quickly jumps into the Sci-fi stuff, which makes the book more interesting and gives you a reason to turn the page.
we now get the atrocious  Piano Lessons Can Be Murder.
What a mess of a book.I guess this was banking off the idea that most children have taken piano lessons at some point in their lives and disliked it?
But the protagonist doesn't even dislike the piano lessons.
He just thinks his piano is haunted.
Then there's the weird piano teacher, robots, a monster that isn't a monster...
it's such a mess.
Even the ghost isn't all that compelling.So yeah.
There's something ~*spooky*~ about human hands playing pianos by themselves.
Even though the robots themselves have hands.
When Jerry discovers a piano in the new house that he’s family had just recently moved into.He’s parents convince him to take up piano lessons, but when he’s teacher Dr. Shreek stars behaving weirdly, Jerry starts to question if these piano lessons are a good idea after all.An enjoyable entry in the series, piano music is always a great stable in the horror genre.I can vividly remember this one as a kid, it held up pretty well on a nostalgic re-read.
Dr. Shreek explains that he wants Jerry to come take lessons at his school, instead of at Jerry's house.
Jerry decides he wants to quit piano lessons because the place is creepy as all hell.
Jerry decides to tell Dr. Shreek he plans on quitting piano.
Mr. Toggle explains that even though he's a genius, he can't figure out how to make nice looking hands so he just cuts them off of people and programs them to play piano.
The ghost explains she was trying to scare Jerry away from going to the school by haunting his house.
Spooky... Good..only if you are a kid.Fear Street books are way better than goosebumps...
4.5this was such an amazing introduction to the stories of R.L. Stein, I absolutely loved this story and I'm definitely gonna be reading more of his goosebumps!
Jerome is a twelve-year-old boy who likes joking around with his parents.
One day, his family has to move into a kinda big old house; in the evening in the same day, he discovers that there is a piano in the attic left by the previous owner.
He hears a sad piano sound from the attic, but when he tells his parents about this incident, they don't believe him.
Sometime later, he has a piano lesson with Dr. Shreek who keeps telling Jerome that he has beautiful hands.
Pick the book up and read them.
This is the best Goosebumps book I've read so far.
These books are a mixture of varying degrees of terrible and amazing - at the same time.
I honestly find it really hard to rate them, seeing as they're such a major part of my reading foundation.
11 year-old me would probably have given all of them 5 stars, but alas, I'm no longer 11 years old.
In acknowledgement of my young self and the wonderful kitschiness of the series, I've decided on 4 stars.
Also, they vary a lot in quality, but seeing as it's been so long since I've read them, I don't remember which ones were best.
4 stars it is.
Another book I picked up from the last library sale, super quick read. Bit meh book.The piano in question is in the attic and the first thing I found myself wondering was how they got the piano in the attic lolNow that I've finished it I will be dropping it off at a Free Little Library in front of a school where I'm sure someone will enjoy it.
This book was sweet because it gave you thrill while you sat at the edge of your seat -or even fell off, like me- and it had suspense flowing through the pages. This book you should definitely read, if you love a good scary story! So, if you read this book, you will see the intensity of this horror book, which will leave you hesitating to go even near a piano! (hint hint) so peace out!
I really like reading the Goosebumps books. I remember when I read the various titles of this series to my children. It was part of our nightly ritual which we all looked forward to. Re-reading any of these books brings back fond memories.
This book gave me chills!!!!
ohhhh only hands play piano!!!!!!!!!!
a book for people who like surprises :)
it was the scariest book i've ever read.
This makes me want to take piano lessens! Now I am!
Love this book!! I would read it again!! (:
