https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301873.Agostino
و كأنك تقرأ فرويد مكتوبا فى رواية أو تشاهد نظريته فى فيلم سينيمائى من خلال الفتى المراهق الناقم على أمه و الذى يحاول اكتشاف نفسه جنسياتم تحويلها لفيلم سينيمائى باسم أوجستينو أو الخطيئة الأولىرواية تكشف المستور في عالم المراهقة و المراهقين دون الوصول لحد الإبتذال
Agostino is a 13 year old boy, on vacatioon at a Tuscan beach with his widowed mother.
The writer describes her as a big woman, in her prime, and Agostino is fixated on her, not just as a mother, but also as a woman.
Things get complicated when his mother meets a young local man, and they spend their days in what is presumed, a romantic fling.
Agostino feels left out, jealous, and in his gloom he meets a group of local boys on the beach and he learns some life lessons the hard way.
An event at a local house of prostitution does further damage to Agostino's fragile sexual understandings.
Πρώτο βιβλίο του Αλμπέρτο Μοράβια που πέφτει στα χέρια μου και δηλώνω ικανοποιημένος.
Πρόκειται για ένα αρκετά σύντομο και περιεκτικό μυθιστόρημα, που σκιαγραφεί το πορτρέτο ενός δεκατριάχρονου αγοριού, του οποίου η αθωότητα χάνεται ξαφνικά μέσα σ'ένα καλοκαίρι, έπειτα από κάποια συγκεκριμένα περιστατικά.
Ο μικρός Αυγουστίνος κάνει διακοπές με τη νέα και όμορφη χήρα μητέρα του σ'ένα παραθαλάσσιο μέρος, όντας ουσιαστικά το επίκεντρο της προσοχής της.
Νομίζω ότι την όλη διαφορά στο βιβλίο την κάνει, φυσικά, η πολύ καλή και οξυδερκής γραφή του Μοράβια.
Η ιστορία είναι αρκετά απλή και συγκεκριμένη, αλλά ο τρόπος γραφής θεωρώ ότι την απογειώνει ως ένα σημείο.
Το μόνο σίγουρο είναι ότι θα διαβάσω και άλλα βιβλία του Αλμπέρτο Μοράβια.
The unpleasant nature of his transition as an adolescent are described in the later pages as his mother replies to his comment: ”You always treat me like a baby!” and in retort fashion, she exclaims, ”All right, then, from now on I’ll treat you like a man”.Agostino seems to find the answers to his questions by finally realizing to himself:”Like a man,” he couldn’t help but think to himself before falling asleep.
But he wasn’t a man, and many unhappy days would pass before he became one.”Moravia seems to epitomize how early life’s inquiries trouble the mind and how the people around you affect and are affected by your actions and emotions during those years.
Proprio quel suo sguardo cambierà: la sua mamma è una donna ora, può amare un altro uomo, considera lui un bambino, il suo dolce bambino e lo sguardo incestuoso è soltanto, dolorosamente, il suo.Il caro Moravia descrive benissimo l’angoscia di Agostino, senza volgarità gli fa sentire l’odore di donna su una guancia sfiorata dal fianco materno, gli fa fare sogni impudichi, lo guida verso una soluzione che non si compie, sulla soglia di una ‘casa chiusa’, e lo lascia spaurito e indifeso di fronte alla visione degli anni a venire in cui, bambino ancora, non potrà sostituire il corpo sognato con un corpo reale di altra donna.
Coming of age is an awkward time for Agostino, especially given his preoccupation with his mother. Moravia tells the story quite well but it seemed nevertheless slight to me. I don't regret the hour it took me to read this. Perhaps it suffered for my reading it just after  Edisto, wherein the same inchoate understandings reveal themselves in a 13 year-old mind.
Come compensazione alla disattenzione della madre, presa da tutt'altro, Agostino cercherà di farsi accettare da un gruppo di ragazzi del luogo di bassa estrazione sociale, e attraverso loro incontrerà la omosessualità e la prostituzione sfiorandole appena, ma non arriverà a conoscere davvero il sesso perché è ancora troppo giovane e "molto tempo infelice deve passare " prima che diventi uomoQuando leggo che un libro viene definito datato mi sembra spesso un commento sbrigativo e superficiale che non entra nel merito, eppure in questo caso non ho potuto fare a meno di pensarlo.
It's the story of a 13-year-old boy spending summer by the sea with his young and beautiful widowed mother.
The boy is as green as they come and hopelessly in love with his mother.At first young Agostino is honored to row his Mamma beyond nosy eyes on the beach to where she can skinny-dip (while he doesn't look because she tells him not to) in the sea.
And there are more jolting mirror contrasts as Moravia details the transformation between innocence and experience, showing the boy's struggle with Madonna/Whore images and thoughts.Also in the mix?
One of Moravia's pet themes, as he contrasts the rich boy, Agostino, and the lower-class boys from the beach.
Sex is something that we like to read about if it involves super-wealthy werewolf vampire lesbians, or lycanthropic New Age gay knights, or teenage magic-wielders touching each other in their naughty bits...but only by suggestion, or vindictive and unrealistic pornographic scenarios involving with about as much life as a Sani-hand (a kind of glove used to ward off masturbatory obsolescence)Real people dealing with real sexual issues!
Like I said, it's a very desolate and simple novel, but that's part of its strength because it is the story of that middle ground that none of us like to think about (outside implausible, fantastic scenarios) between being free of desire and having desire, the middle ground where you're trying to find out, often by yourself, what the hell to do with yourself.
Though published in 1942 (held back by the censors until 1944) adolescence has not changed much, and it's easy to see why Moravia's novella has become a classic.
On summer vacation in an Italian beach resort with his mother young Agostino is ignored while she chases a local man.
They hang around with an older man, a local boat renter, Saco, who clearly makes sexual advances towards the boys.
The boys go skinny dipping almost to tantalise Saco, but it is Agostino, as a small 13 year old, who is more interested in their changing bodies.
Though ultimately pathetic, the couple shows moments of comedy as they try to deal with the absurd nature of their attempts to stay on track.Agostino is a tragic reflection of the same ideas told through the point of view of a young boy just turning adolescent.
Though Moravia does not overtly speak on politics in these pieces, the reflection of the sexual attitudes upon the very lifestyle of the middle class is evident; society, and the individuals which comprise society, become aware of the harsh nature of a world they once thought carefree
I wouldn't describe this so much "coming of age" story I viewed it more as a sense of Agostino's growing awareness, realisation of himself and the world around him.It's quite a bittersweet and poignant journey for Agostino who goes from having the sole attention of his mother to having competition from his mother's lover.
It painful to watch as Agostino comes to view his mother in another light entirely.
It's often painful as you watch Agostino struggle to find his niche in the world and make sense of his burgeoning feelings.
Agostino is a 13 year boy sharing a summer holiday with his widowed and wealthy mother.
Does he find his mother attractive, "she is only a woman" he says to himself a number of times or repulsive?Agostino's nativity is partially resolved when he starts to hang around a local group of boys who introduce him to a new world of poverty, violence, sexism and petty thief.
He is also exposed to his first awareness of homosexuality.He is confused in his feelings to his mother and can only conclude he had a few painful years ahead as he transitions between childhood to adulthood.
تحمل هذه الطبعة قصتينالقصة الأولى الخطيئة الأولى: أبدع فيها الكاتب بتصوير عواطف المراهق ونفسيته المت
و يبدأ عقل أغسوتينو في دوامة الإنسان الذي يشتعل أسئلة و أفكار حول كل تصرف .تزداد حين يصادق عصبة من أطفال الطبقة الكادحة العاملة ،و إن كان يصلح كلمة تميز علي ذلك، فتلك الطبقة تتميز بتخطي مرحلة الطفولة و المراهقة إلي مرحلة الإدراك الخاطئ لكافة الأمور ، من بينها طبعا الجنس حيث يتحول كل شيء مؤنث إلي أداء للإثارة و أطلق النكات البذيئة ، و نظرتهم لك حيث تصبح رجلًا أمامهم عن طريق شيء واحد فقط إن لم يتحقق فلا أنت رجل و لا شيء !
أعتقد أن هذه الرواية ، لا تعكس كما وصفها المترجم "مأساة المراهقة"، و انما تعكس مأساة "الانسان"، ليس كل انسان، انما الانسان الذى يحترق الاف المرات فى الثانية انفعالا لاجل توافه الامور، "من قال؟"، "من سيعتقد أأننى؟"، "من لا يحبنى؟"، "كيف يرانى هذا الشخص؟"، "لماذا ابتعد عنى هذا الرفيق؟"، كلها أمور تهز بطل الرواية، تهزه هزا عنيفا، وهى امور لا تستحق ان تضيع قدرتنا البشرية الجبارة لأجلها!!!!!!!1
As he ceases to be the sole focus of his mother’s attention, the cosseted Agostino drifts into a sort of friendship with a gang of poor, rough boys and the rather frightening man who seems to have some control over them.
And as he grows more aware of his mother’s sexuality, Agostino’s infatuation turns almost to an Oedipal-like obsession.Although I enjoyed reading this novella, I wasn’t totally convinced by it.
Saro, the man on the beach, seemed to be there only to provide another form of sexual threat and awakening for Agostino and the whole relationship between Agostino and the gang felt unreal.
I have been reading so many new books lately, each set up by talk in the press, the opinions of my friends, the necessity to review, that everything becomes a kind of test, no longer personal, not longer individual.
I open the book……and am introduced to Agostino, a prepubescent boy at an Italian resort, escorting his young and beautiful mother to the beach each day with proprietorial pride, rowing out with her so that they can both go swimming.
I rarely come across an NYRB classic that doesn't have something to offer me.What drew me to AGOSTINO?
But when she takes a lover (although Agostino is too young to realize that he is a lover at first), Agostino starts to feel like a third wheel, and starts to see his mother in a more complicated light, as her own person, as a woman.Then he meets a group of boys, slightly older than him, who bully the naive young Agostino for not knowing about sex, for not knowing what his mother is doing, for not knowing to beware of predators.
It is meant to be read by an adult, by a reader who has the perspective and knowledge Agostino is just starting to realize exists.
It is an interesting reading experience.I found myself being left cold by AGOSTINO.
E così, nella luce, ci viene disegnata questa donna come un complesso di movimenti chiusi, fermati in un quadro, in una fotografia.
E ai limiti della sala troviamo Agostino, incerto sulla soglia, ancora simbolicamente fuori dalla stanza, proteso verso quell’immagine di sensualità che sporca la luce della giornata (o che forse le dà una maggiore purezza) e che continua a ripetere “una donna, non è che una donna”, incapace com’è di conciliare l’idea della madre con la fisicità di quella figura scomposta, dagli occhi brillanti e i capelli in disordine.
Agostino, ci dice Moravia, non sarebbe diventato un uomo, non nell’immediato almeno, e parecchi altri anni infelici lo avrebbero separato da questa conquista.
Oh, and it is not a dad problem, but a mom fixation, when he sees her in a new 'sexual' light.
And no, he doesn't desire her, but he notices her beauty and sensuality through others.
It's a beautiful snapshot of a boy coming of age, but twisted with respect to his feelings for his mom, and the approval of the local toughs.
Like a moth to a flame, he hoovers over his passions, which at this point, it's pretty instinctive than anything else.
Alberto Moravia is a master, and this early story, like his others, has an incredible insight into human nature and the sensuality within.
تلك المرحلة التى تتحول فيها الطفولة إلى المراهقة هى مرحلة الجموح و التمرد، مرحلة حرجة تترك علامات غائرة فى الأنفس قد لا تنمحى آثارها مدى الحياة.
عقدة اوديب هذه هي الرواية بكل بساطة فيها بعض الجمال و التحليل النفسي لكنها ليست بالعمل العظيم.
Moore, published by New York Review Books in 2014.In the Translator's Note Moore points out Moravia's stylistic innovations.
Nothing apocalyptic happens to Agostino, although, surely, all around him are the miseries and depredations to which the mass of humanity is subject.The most accessible part of this story occurs when Agostino is mistaken for a peasant by a middle-class man who wishes to show his son, who is Agostino's age, the horrors he is avoiding by not being as low-born as Agostino.
My kind of story ทีแททรู จริงๆ นาจะนับวาเปนนิยายคัมมิงออฟเอจได แตกเปนคัมมิงออฟเอจทีบิดเบียวเหลือเกิน แถมจบแบบไมหลุดจากบวงอีก มันคือเรืองราวของการตระหนักรับรูการมีอยูของตัณหาความใครของอะกอสติโนวัย 13 ผูมีแมเปนมายสาวรูปรางหนาตางามหลังจากทีมีหนุมมาจีบแมของเขา แตดวยความทีมันเปนการรับรูแบบบิดๆ เบียวๆ ไมสมบูรณจึงทำใหเขาไปอยูเหนือมันไมได และขณะเดียวกันกทำใหเขามองแมในสองสถานะคือสถานะของความเปนแมและสถานะของความเปนหญิงมากขึนๆ ทุกขณะ หลายฉากในนิยายลอแหลมคาบเสนมากๆ บรรยากาศมันอินเซสตมากๆ และการบรรยายถึงเรือ
My kind of story ที่แท้ทรู จริงๆ น่าจะนับว่าเป็นนิยายคัมมิ่งออฟเอจได้ แต่ก็เป็นคัมมิ่งออฟเอจที่บิดเบี้ยวเหลือเกิน แถมจบแบบไม่หลุดจากบ่วงอีก มันคือเรื่องราวของการตระหนักรับรู้การมีอยู่ของตัณหาความใคร่ของอะกอสติโนวัย 13 ผู้มีแม่เป็นม่ายสาวรูปร่างหน้าตางามหลังจากที่มีหนุ่มมาจีบแม่ของเขา แต่ด้วยความที่มันเป็นการรับรู้แบบบิดๆ เบี้ยวๆ ไม่สมบูรณ์จึงทำให้เขาไปอยู่เหนือมันไม่ได้ และขณะเดียวกันก็ทำให้เขามองแม่ในสองสถานะคือสถานะของความเป็นแม่และสถานะของความเป็นหญิงมากขึ้นๆ ทุกขณะ หลายฉากในนิยายล่อแหลมคาบเส้นมากๆ บรรยากาศมันอินเซสต์มากๆ และการบรรยายถึงเรือนร่างของแม่ในหลายๆ ฉากผ่านสายตาอะกอสติโนก็ชวนเสียวซ่านมากถึงจะไม่มีคำที่ดูอนาจารที่ชอบอย่างหนึ่งคือถึงจุดหนึ่งก็สังเกตเห็นว่าโมราเวียบรรยายโดยเรียกแม่ของเขาว่า the mother ตลอดเลย
That last sentence was perfect
الكتاب مؤلف من روايتين: الاولى هي "اجوستينو": رواية تتحدث عن ولد يسكن مع أمه وكيفية رؤيته لمحيطه مع المتغيرات التي تطرأ على تفكيره كمراهق.الثانية هي "الريفية": رواية تحكي عن فتاة بسيطة ريفية وطموحاتها في أن تنتمي للطبقة الثرية والقدر الذي يسوقها مقارنة بذلك.لعلي لم أقرأ منذ زمن أسلوبا قصصيا كذاك الذي تتسم كتابة البرتو مورافيا به.
فيظهر لي أنه متمرس في القص من منظور الشخصية الرئيسية وتفكيرها وخبايا نفسها.
استمتعت كثيرا باللغة التصويرية القديرة التي يمتلكها الكاتب التي تعطي تصورا دقيقا ممتلئا دون أن تكون مبتذلة.فوق هذا استمتعت كثيرا بقدرة الكاتب التخيلية على نسج قصص غريبة ولكنها عميقة وباطنية تكشف عن المام عميق بعلم النفس ومشاعرها المتضاربة فيما بينها تارة، ومع العقل تارة أخرى.كما وأعجبتني الحبكة في كلتا الروايتين التي تمس محرمات المجتمع ولكن دون أن تكون متكلفة أو متصنعة.
Agostino is a coming-of-age novella written and censored during Facist regime in 1942.
The story begins with the boy, Agostino, being so close to his mother that it was clearly Oedipal.
He’s intrigued with the boys.
The boys are cruel and mean to him, yet he’s drawn to them like moths drawn to flame.There’s many themes compacted into this little book: there’s the social class differences, the classic coming-of-age issues of young boys; struggles of boys trying to fit in; and the hopelessness of the disenfranchised.
I received an advanced copy of this book from the publisher through Edelweiss.This brief story is a bold and daring peak into one boy’s transition from boyhood to adulthood.
The author tackles some taboo and Freudian issues through a brief period of time in Agostino’s life.
When Agostino starts to hang around with a rough gang of older boys they clue him in to the possible sexual relationship his mother is having with her gentleman friend.
He is left frustrated at the cruel nature of this transitional period in his young life.
It is through the coarse, violent, and vulgar words and actions of the poor teenagers belonging to a world completely separated from his that the boy (naïve until then because overprotected) discovers the crude reality of sex, but what he comes to understand actually goes much further than that: when Agostino is suspected by the teenagers of having engaged in homosexual acts with an adult man who is like a father for all of them – something that did not happen – the still very young Agostino realizes that, in the heads of kids that will never be his friends no matter what, the social milieu he is associated with goes hand in hand with the possibility that he might be a “deviant” (as gay men were then called).
