https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7861790-for-the-school-colours
And because they have the moral high ground, and this is an old fashioned boarding school story, the day students show up the boarders in ways that are effective without being any more mean-spirited than the boarders deserve.
These chapters were just so much fun to read, I wish the whole book had been set at school.However, the main character is a weekly boarder, meaning she goes home on the weekends.
I wish I'd only read the chapters at the boarding school.
A young girl is apparently the rightful heiress to the Hall, despite it being straightforwardly left by her grandfather to her aunt to her husband, on the grounds that her Uncle is a naturalised German and should be interred.
Despite her uncle providing her family with a house, income and school fees, the book persists in depicting her as cruelly cheated and the rightful possessor of the Hall.
Even the school plot is altogether too smoothly and easily resolved, given the depth of resentment that had been depicted between the two lots of girls.
;) Set in a small, rather exclusive boarding school during the Great War that has suddenly taken over another local school and now its numbers have trebled with the advent of so many new girls.
The boarders are not fans of these new invaders and it splits the school right down the middle!
But it's not just a simple boarding school story - it's as if the author wanted to write about four different books here.
great, adventurous subplot, but I'd have liked more at the school!Also very untintentionally gay.
Of course I've already said how much I prefer Angela Brazil's school stories to her other books, so I knew I was going to love this one.
I was right!
I just love the old school innocence, the fact that a schoolgirl can so admire an older woman that the author labels it 'love' from the get go.
I love the school pride, the focus on sports.
I wasn't as interested in Pamela's side of things, because I accurately predicted the outcome there from the get go.
Still, another first class school story.
As other reviewers have described, this book didn't know what it was. It was half school story and half a story about a German spy. The two plots didn't converge at all and the book suffered a great deal for it.
Read this book online for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/35972/...
The boarders at Silverside school are astonished when they return to discover that the school, which before was mainly boarding, with only a few day girls, has amalgamated with a local day school, and now there are three times as many day girls. The two groups quickly find themselves at odds, which makes life difficult for Avelyn: she is a weekly boarder, going home on the weekends, but nine months earlier she was a day girl at the other school! But, because of her unique position, she is the one who encourages both groups to combine For the School Colours.
