https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35259724-behold-the-dreamers
America was passing her by. New York City was passing her by. Bridges and billboards bearing smiling people were passing her by. Skyscrapers and brownstones were rushing by. Fast. Too fast. Forever. 3 1/2 stars. Ah, this book was a pleasant surprise. I picked Behold the Dreamers for my September Book of the Month read, mostly because none of the others appealed to me. I hadn't any previous plans to read it but, as it happens, it turned out to be an enjoyable read. Full of sadness, hope and - of
The author herself is a Cameroonian immigrant living in the United States, and so is able to weave the Jonga family with firsthand insight and honesty; the result being characters that come to life on the page and make you remember them.There's an undercurrent of sadness to the whole book.
The Jonga family are distinctly West-African in their ideals and cultural practices, and yet their desire to give their son the best life possible is a heartbreakingly universal one.All of the characters are treated with such love and care by the author.
Yet this, unfortunately, wasn’t enough for me to give this one high praise.Behold the Dreamers was a wonderful title for a work that told a story of exactly that: a family with dreams in their eyes and a determination to fight for a good life in America the Great.
There were assuming plot leaps that lurched the timeline forward in a way that made me feel I’d missed something, where I, as a reader, missed the growth of the characters and how their bonds with one another grew or were sullied, and that made the read less enthralling.
The story is told from the perspectives of Jende Jongo, and his wife, Nemi, who are from Cameroon dreaming of a better future in their new home.
The stage is set for an exploration of their precarious lives buffeted by economic and social forces beyond their control as the 2008 financial collapse is described in terms of its human cost.Jende is working as a cabbie when he lands the dream job of chauffeur to Lehman's executive, Clark Edward, who demands Jende keeps his secrets and give him his absolute loyalty.
Jende Jonga in efforts to get his green card explains to Clark Edwards, in his interview for a job as chauffeur why he wants to be in America: "Everyone wants to come to America, sir.
Cameroon has nothing-"This dream to stay in America for Jende and his wife Neni , a dream to become somebody and have a good life for their children is the center of this story but yet it becomes about a lot more as Jende and Neni's future become so tied to Clark Edwards and his wife Cindy.
And those types of books - the kind that open up your heart and educate you - will stay with me for a long time.But circling back to the plot of this story, Jende can hardly believe his luck when he lands a job as a chauffeur for Clark Edwards, a senior executive at Lehman Brothers.Everything is seemingly going okay for the Jongas— Jende's immigration court date seems to be years from now, Neni is acing her precalculus finals thanks to the help of her instructor, and Liomi is doing well in his classes.But then the financial world is rocked by the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
But then along comes “Behold the Dreamers,” a debut novel by a young woman from Cameroon that illuminates the immigrant experience in America with the tenderhearted wisdom so lacking in our political discourse.
While another author might have played that imperative title sarcastically, for Imbolo Mbue, “Behold the Dreamers” is a kind of angelic annunciation of hope, which ultimately makes her story even more poignant.After a childhood of extreme poverty, Mbue came to this country in 1998 — recent enough to retain the optimism of an immigrant but long enough to understand our national schizophrenia about foreigners.
Her novel is about a family from Cameroon living in Harlem on the eve of striking disruption.
Jende and his wife, Neni, have been preparing for the interview for days.
Was pretty sure I liked Jende for most of the book until he did something I abhorred.
Lawyer fees, trying to get papers to stay in this country, work toward a better for themselves and their families.
The author set this just before the collapse of our economy in 2008 and in fact Clark Edward works for Lehman Brothers as an executive, as he loses his job, his marriage disintegrates as does the future of Jende's family.
This novel is not perfect and like most probably doesn't reflect all but it does give the reader an inside view of one such immigrant family.
Imbolo Mbue tells the story of married couple Jende and Nemi, who have moved from Cameroon to New York City to pursue their dream of a better life in America.
While Jende and Nemi are rich characters when they deal with each other and other members of the Cameroon community in New York, they seemed to lose dimension when dealing with this wealthy Manhattan family and the family itself felt like it was composed of types rather than real people.
I felt that Mbue could have done so much more with the dynamics in the relationships between these characters.
Cameroon, where some families are so poor, we’re told, they give their children away.
Long story short, (not a spoiler), Jende works for Clark, Neni gets work with his wife, Cindy, and they become friendly, one-on-one, somewhat at arm’s length like family servants.
But then the oldest boy announces he’s going to search for fulfilment in India and skip college.Neni finds Cindy in a bad way one day, and Cindy suddenly confides in her.“‘I came from a poor family.
A very, very poor family.’ ‘Me, too, madam—’ Cindy shook her head.
‘I don’t know no gay man from my country,’ Fatou said.
4.5 StarsImbolo Mbue’s debut novel, “Behold the Dreamers” takes a look at the immigrant dream of life in the United States, with promises of bigger, better than wherever you came from.
Undoubtedly, there can be truth to that, but what happens to that dream when it seems elusive, out of reach or comes undone?I was hooked right from the start by the story of Jende Jongo, formerly of Limbe, Cameroon, finding a dream job as a chauffeur for an executive at Lehman Brothers, in the year 2007.
Jende is privy to much of that stress and he has to try to keep it from reaching into his own family, whose status in this country is far from certain.Imbolo Mbue tells her story from the perspectives of both Jende and Neni, though it’s not a strictly “alternating POV” kind of book.
The Edwards family sometimes feel like a bit of a clichéd portrayal of upper class white privilege, but it still seems clear that Mbue holds a lot of empathy for themThough it’s set in the last decade, this book holds quite a bit of pertinence in 2016.
Thank you to my friend Lisi who gave me a dozen books - that she herself hadn’t read - but were on my TBR list on Goodreads.
“you’ll love this book.I’ve read other books about The Lehman Brothers- and the global financial crisis- ( and lived through it) - I’ve read many fiction stories about immigration....but this was the first book where I’ve read a novel of the two topics combined.
Jende Jonga and his wife Neni- the African couple who worked for Clark and Cindy Clark —( Clark being executive for Lehman Brothers) - shines the light on many drawbacks in the United States.
I enjoyed the book, initially, and found myself feeling sympathetic towards Jende and his fierce determination to stay in America and create a better life for his family.
The experiences of this family are certainly realistic, which is probably a good thing, since it gives the reader a great deal of insight into the struggles of immigrant families attempting to make a life for themselves in America and the serious challenges they face.
So, I’m kind of scratching my head here, wondering if I’m missing some major point everyone else picked up on.
It seems like 2016 is the year of some really, really great debuts—and  Behold the Dreamers is no exception.
Imbolo Mbue has created a story that's at once heartwarming and heartbreaking.
You can't help but feel for the characters, empathize with their struggles, rejoice in their victories, and mourn with them in their sufferings.
I would highly recommend this one to anyone looking for a page-turning story (not because of an exciting plot but because you just have to find out what happens to these characters), and for anyone who doesn't read a lot of literary fiction—I think this would be a great starting place.
Follow me on https://booknationbyjen.wordpress.com for all my recommendations and reviews.Loved this debut novel by Imbolo Mbue!
Jende and Neni, from Cameroon, are striving to achieve the American Dream…apartment in NYC, working hard and studying long, struggling to raise a family in the United States.
They have high hopes and aspirations, and with a positive outlook, they aim to achieve their goals.
Clark and Cindy are American, rich and live a lavish lifestyle.
Follow my blog Book Nation by Jen for more book reviews and recommendations.
The immigrant story has been the central theme to quite a lot of contemporary novels these past few years. The release of Imbolo Mbue's Behold the Dreamers may have first been perceived as another typical immigrant story to join all the others, but actually it's much more.... For more click the link https://browngirlreading.com/2017/01/...
THIS 5-STAR READ IS A FINALIST FOR THE PEN/FAULKNER AWARD!I voted for this book in the 2016 Goodreads Choice Awards.
I read somewhere on the internet that this just might be The Great American Novel.
(This is the author's debut novel, but I will bet large sums of cash money that it's not her first...this is an accomplished, polished, beautiful piece of writing and plotting, and it has numerous older siblings in the "recycle" folder on her hard drive or I'm your maiden auntie.)Don't waste time reading reviews, go get the book and read it!
Neni pursues education to become a pharmacist, while Jende drives a cab and hopes for a better opportunity.Good fortune presents itself in the fall of 2007, when Jende lands a job as the chauffeur of a senior executive with Lehman Brothers, Clark Edwards.
Over time, Clark becomes a fixture in the Edwards family, driving Clark's mercurial wife, Cindy, as well as the couple's two sons, hippie idealist Vince, who wants to denounce all his father has worked for, and young Mighty, who is fascinated by Jende and Neni's culture.
Jende & Neni Jonga struggle to understand the immigration process in America.
Jende finds a job as a driver for Clark Edwards- an executive for Lehman Brothers- oh did I forget to mention that this book takes place in 2008, before the S#*t hit the fan?
We follow Neni and Jende as they grapple with an attorney and the legal system trying desperately to push them out of America.
Mbue does a fantastic job of developing the characters that appear in this book.
The Edwards family- classic upper white class has nuances that I appreciated and made these characters all have individual strengths and flaws that made them come alive off the pages.
i still plan to read this one (slow down, time!!!), but once again proving you don't have to have read every book in order to do good readers' advisory work, i have made a readalike list here: https://www.rifflebooks.com/list/236305
The book itself is excellent: a beautifully written story about family, dreams, what home means, the different interpretations of the American dream… The audiobook is an Oscar-worthy production. I know the Oscars don’t give awards for audiobook narrators but they should–they should give all the awards to Prentice Onayemi for his impeccable, brilliant, and lovely narration. I finished this book feeling as if I had just walked out of an amazing Broadway show. I will read anything Imbolo Mbue writes and listen to anything Prentice Onayemi narrates.— Jamie Canavesfrom The Best Books We Read In October 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/10/31/riot-r...
But I don’t have the difficult life in the home country that awaits those whose plea to stay in the U.S. is rejected.These immigrants are from Cameroon.
Add the complication of a black man immigrating to a country who has not yet solved their race prejudices:  “You think a black man gets a good job in this country by sitting in front of white people and telling the truth?
The Americans had done no such thing.” Near the end of the book two characters discuss a choice the illegal immigrants are considering so that they can stay: to divorce & marry someone else for a green card.
An interesting story about an African couple that come to NYC searching for the American Dream and instead get caught in the worst recession the country has seen short of the Great Depression.
The most interesting person in the class contrast is Vince.
Maybe the one thing that is the same across race and class is parenthood.
Neni is amazed that Winston has so many white friends.
Mbue takes her time getting to the collapse of Lehman.
Things move at a good clip.
What constitutes good and evil?
It definitely makes you think about the status of illegal immigrants and the steps they take to stay in this country.
Behold the Dreamers is an #ownvoices book speaking about the powerlessness behind the immigration process and the adjustment process which is different for every individual and family that tries to immigrate to the USA.
I discussed some more themes, including being an international student in academia, attitudes towards law enforcement, and the safety within community in MY FULL NON-SPOILER REVIEW VIDEO HERE!This is a book that will stay with me for a long time.
Jende and Neni Jonga leave Limbe, Cameroon for a shot at the "American Dream".
Through a recommendation, Jende lands the job of driving Clark Edwards, an executive for Lehman Brothers.
With Neni in school, Jende feels more and more encouraged that their dream life is within reach.
Gradually Jende and Neni learn of their secrets, secrets that put them in compromising situations and make them do questionable things.
The way in which the lives of the Jongas and the Edwards intertwined set the tone for this work.The background of this work is the ecomic collapse of Wall Street but that is not the only thing to collapse in the book.
Will be vacillating between 4 and 5 on this one. Letting it marinate for a minute...Roughly 4.5 StarsListened to the audiobook. Prentice Onayemi is excellent!!
The great thing in American is it doesn't matter what your last name is, doesn't matter if you're wealthy." ----Bobby JindalImbolo Mbue, a Cameroonian author, pens an incredibly inspiring debut novel, Behold the Dreamers that unfolds the stories of two families set against the backdrop of the Big Apple, one is a very poor yet hardworking immigrant family from a very small town in Africa and another is an American family who are filthy rich, as the two families come together with their growing fondness for one another, and so the inevitable curse of the Great Recession that tears each and every one from both the families apart.Synopsis:  A compulsively readable debut novel about marriage, immigration, class, race, and the trapdoors in the American Dream—the unforgettable story of a young Cameroonian couple making a new life in New York just as the Great Recession upends the economyNamed one of BuzzFeed’s “Incredible New Books You Need to Read This Summer”Jende Jonga, a Cameroonian immigrant living in Harlem, has come to the United States to provide a better life for himself, his wife, Neni, and their six-year-old son.
Behold the Dreamers was good, but not great. The beginning of the book was strong - I was intrigued and wanted to keep reading the story. The struggle of the main characters in their pursuit of the American dream was well-portrayed, however I felt like the book's ending fell very flat.
This is the American Dream Jende Jorga works toward by leaving Cameroon on a visitors visa.
Working as a dishwasher and livery driver, he saves enough money to bring wife Neni and son Liomi to a roach-infested apartment in Harlem.Jende's cousin Winston helps him find a job as chauffeur to Clark Edwards, a Lehman Brothers executive.
Asked by Cindy Edwards to help care for her son during the college summer hiatus, Neni's ability to shield Cindy's erratic behavior is put to the test.During the Great Recession of 2007, the lifestyles of the upper class Edwards as well as the struggling Jorgas take a dive.
Clark Edwards, a driven wealthy senior executive at Lehman Brothers is a sympathetic character.
Meanwhile his privileged wife whose self esteem seems to depend on how many galas she is invited to, begins to self destruct as her marriage begins to fall apart and secrets she has kept for many years take their toll on her psyche.Jende and Neni Jonga are hardworking Cameroonian immigrants who come to America, the land of opportunity and struggle to make ends meet.
They both end up working for the Edwards family, privy to family secrets and witness to the widening cracks in the Edwards’ seemingly perfect lives.
This book had added appeal as I was working a bankers’ annual convention with 7000+ bankers in attendance the day that the Lehman Brothers collapse hit the news.
