https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2159225.The_Mysterious_Benedict_Society_and_the_Perilous_Journey
When the author ties together a whole complete book, then he'll really have something, but the first book in this series was a strong starter and then trailed off, and this 2nd book is a slow starter and a poor (far too abrupt) finisher, but the middle section of the book really delivers.
I'd like to see more actual intelligence put down on the page as well.
As the "intelligence" factor of these books (and children) is integral to the plot, I'd like to see the author spend more time creating the puzzles, and putting substance behind them.
The illustrator did a great job.The author never talks down to his child audience.
It is always a good sign when a children's author does not talk down to them.
For example, this brought up (among other things), pride and how to deal with it (consider Sticky's pride of his memory), trust (the children's trust of each other and of Mr. Benedict), obedience/disobedience, and the classic question of good vs evil as the children and Mr. Benedict go up against his evil twin Mr. Curtain.Overally a wonderfully delightful read.
Okay so this maybe wasn't quite as good as the first one, BUT STILL, FIVE SHINING STARS. This was a brilliant, satisfying, and exciting addition to the Mysterious Benedict Society. I'm just so darn invested in all of these characters.
Seeing those men there, helpless to stop her from doing what they themselves would never hesitate to do, Kate realized - with a certain degree of disappointment but also with a degree of pride - that she could never do it, could never do something that would make her more like her enemy and less like her father."Kate's struggle with the temptation to avenge herself and her friends ends with her choosing mercy.
Good to see a character who chooses not to be overcome by the evil around her, who lets fact not feeling determine her actions.
Kate saw the choice she had and the consequences - revenge may feel right at that moment, but ultimately it takes you further away from Whose image you want to become.
There are lots of lessons to be learned, ‘outlook in life’ that must be observed by number of people and mind-blowing questions answered in just a turn of the page.The story starts when Reynie Muldoon and Sticky Washington meet at Kate Wetherall’s farm to go to Mr. Benedict’s house after almost a year of their dangerous mission in the first series.
If my theory is correct, in the last chapter, Sticky’s character become to change, he begot a large string of motivation to the Mysterious Benedict Society when they are in complete lost or danger.
I was very excited to begin The Mysterious Benedict Society and the Perilous Journey as I am a big fan of its prequel.
The first Mysterious Benedict Society was quirky and exciting, and had actual surprises, which, I find, few books do.
This second installment picks up where the last left off--making reading of the first a prerequisite--and the four children are ready to embark on a new adventure.
The dastardly plan of the evil twin, itself the crux of the plot, makes little sense at close inspection and undermines the story itself.
4.5 stars
This was a really great sequel to the first book. I loved the way the author brought the characters together, and had them work together to get out of their hard situations. I liked how this book had the characters go to different areas around the world and how the characters faced their problems. This is a good book for anyone who likes mystery or action novels.
Taking a crazy boat ride and going through the dangerous jungle of an island.
In these series 3 kids go om outwardly adventures trying to escape from the terrible man who is after there money.
Benidictsociety because they go on crazy adventures to try to get rid of one man.
I can also relate this book to Charlie and the chocolate factory because of all the crazy things that happen.
I would recommend this book to people who liked the peter and the star-cathers series.
If I'm being honest, I remember the first book being way better. This one was a tad boring for me and I felt like it dragged on.
Book Title: The Mysterious Benedict Society and the Perilous JourneyAuthor: trenton lee stewart Genre: mysteryRecommendation: the Mysterious Benedict Society and the Perilous Journey is an amazing book because you just fall in love with the characters and you get to see their journey to find the captured person who is in fact mr benedict.
It makes no sense if you didn’t read the first book because they're all still going off the same story and you just want to read the book more and more because the kids just do amazing things and the bad guys are well thought of.Recommended by: desmond monrad
I enjoyed the first book in this series a lot. The second is OK, but it didn't hold my attention as well as the first. Recommended for 8 to 12 year old who are interested in puzzles, treasure hunts, and life-and-death adventures.
The Mysterious Benedict Society go on another journey that not as suspenseful and exciting as the first one, but still had me on my toes. This book was a success.
My second read of this book, and still love it! Excitement and mystery are great things to have in a book!
Sticky, bocah penggugup yang ingatannya luar biasa (disebut sticky karena semua yang dia baca langsung menempel di otak); Constance, si jenius berusia tiga tahun yang sering ngambek dan tersinggung (namanya juga anak kecil); Kate, anak perempuan lincah yang paling bisa diandalkan dalam olah fisik dan kecekatan tangan; serta Reynie, bocah cerdas yang paling kalem dan kerap menjadi tumpuan teman-temannya saat menemui jalan buntu.Dengan perpaduan unik seperti itu, mereka direkrut oleh Mr. Benedict untuk menggagalkan rencana jahat saudara kembarnya, Mr. Curtain, yang ingin menguasai dunia.
The book was very good, but at some parts it got a little boring.
The theme of the story is that you achieve more when you work together.
This is because, for example when they were trying to figure out one of the clues, only one of them figured out were to look.
Without him, they didn't know where to look for the next clue.
But when they were trying to figure out that clue, another person figured it out.
And another person knew where to go to get the next clue.
So, this shows that they all needed to work together to find the clues.
This is an ok book that I didn't really like. It is the 2nd book in a series about 4 children that go through a series of adventures. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes mystery books
However, what had originally been intended on a vacation with a challenging twist, turned into a life-saving mission for the man that brought the four children together.I truly enjoyed Stewart's further development and exploration of the children's personalities and talents.
While I find this fact extremely frustrating -- because I'm a grown up ;o) -- Stewart has taken care of this potential issue for more youthful readers.
Through the voice of Mr. Benedict, he lets the characters (and the reader) know that we all have special talents.
And I'm gonna be upfront that the book I'd wanted to read at the time wasn't available and I picked this as a back-up, so it's possible that it just didn't quite fill the gap.That said - while I enjoyed the first book well enough, this one just didn't quite hit the same spot.
I never really felt the same suspense in this book, and it felt like it sort of just moved from one plot point to the next.
I also didn't feel like there was really any character growth, with the possible exception of Constance (thankfully).
Both of my kids adored the first Mysterious Benedict Society book so they clamored to have me read them this one, the second, as soon as possible.
The four kids of the MBS are reunited for what promises to be a fun surprise from Mr. Benedict only to find that Mr. Benedict and Number Two have been abducted by Mr. Curtain and his minions.
I read about a chapter per night to the kids (about 30 minutes of reading) and they were always clamoring for me to read more.
Naturally they're keen to read the third book in the series.
It seemed a little slow towards the end, but I think that was just because I've had almost no time to read the past few days.
I just have to say how much I love Mr. Benedict and he reminds me so much of Dumbledore from Harry Potter.
I love Milligan too.
He's so sweet!I think that if you've read the first book, you really should read this one too It's just as exciting and mysterious as the first!
I'd say this is a good book for ages 11 and up, but if someone reads it to them, I think 7 or 8 and up would enjoy it a lot too.
Wow! I'm really blown away by this series. Surprisingly, I think that I enjoyed the second book even more than the first, which is saying quite a lot. Can't believe it's taken me this long to read the series, but very glad to be doing so now. We're all quite enthralled. I especially appreciate and find impressive the candid way in which the author explores and expresses the thoughts and feelings and internal struggles of the children. Well done, and well worth reading.
It's not a bad book at any means, with many exciting adventures, clever puzzles, and lovable characters, but I think what it didn't make worthwhile re-reading for me is the way the author describes things TOO much. The author's slow and steady writing style doesn't compliment the action-packed plot.
3.25 Not as good as the first book in the series. Very slow to start. I'm not sure if I'll continue reading the series since the third book also has mixed reviews and complaints about a slow developing story.
This book was a page turner full of adventure, fantasy, and riddles!See video review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uOyQg...
I don't think the Mysterious Benedict Society will ever dissapoint me.
But still, this was well written and engaging and I was able to do a lot of pondering about things related to the book.
But like someone else said in their review- I don’t like how Constance’s ability is made to sound as though she can SEE EVERYTHING by the end, whereas in the beginning and for most of the book she seemed to have a gift for SENSING things generally and seeing patterns.
I love how I can picture scenes and people so well while reading these books and how I can relate to each of the main characters.
The Mysterious Benedict Society and the Perilous Journey is about these kids Reynie, Sticky, Kate, and Constance and they are trying to solve the mystery of where Mr.Benedict and Number Two are.
So, they get letters and clues from a pigeon and a note that Kate had in her pocket.
I think this book is good because you kind of get to be apart of the story and try to solve some little small mystery's along the way.
Hopefully, other readers will feel the same way as I felt about the book.
I enjoy reading this series a lot. I've grown fond of the characters, especially Constance Contraire. An exemplary sequel, giving justice to the first and living up to the challenge of the dangers sequels usually face. Tricky little book, this one. The twists are not predictable and the witty puzzles are still very a fun adventure/mystery to embark on. Simply and delightfully clever.
Very similar in style to the first, this story continues the adventures of The Mysterious Benedict Society: Reynie Muldoon, Sticky Wshington, Kate Weatherall, and Constance Contraire, as they traverse globe to rescue Mr. Benedict. Although this book plays a little bit with the ends justify the means it is still a fun and entertaining adventure for children or adults.
