https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123203.The_Black_Stallion_Returns
Just like the first volume, I read this a looong time ago and loved it. Now that nostalgia has me gripped firmly, I'll re-read this shortly.
He might not be an observant Muslim.) There's a minor character in The Black Stallion who is a missionary in pre-Partition India.
We know nothing about Alec's uncle, only that Alec spent the summer with him and is returning home to Flushing, NY, as The Black Stallion begins.
In The Black Stallion Returns, Alec ends up traveling to Arabia in order to attempt to reclaim The Black from the horse's rightful owner.
I'll take Farley's word about the details of the flight—I'll take his word about the overgrown seaplanes Alec rides, but I know that trans-Atlantic flights did involve stopping overnight at several points along the way in the Forties.
Conveniently for all concerned racing owner, Mr. Volence, agrees to take both trainer, Henry and the devoted youth abroad to seek better bloodlines for his stables--and incidentally search for the Black in distant Arabia.Plunged into an exotic world of desert, treachery and bloodlust Alec and his party set out for a remote mountainous region where the Sheik reigns.
Befriended by a local orphan youth named Raj, Alec's party is abandoned to their fate in the desert, then rescued by a young but suspicious chieftain.
That might have been the end of it, but Sun Raider's owner, Mr. Volence, appears to appeal one last time for a chance at the Black, only to find he has returned to the world he was stolen from.
They travel into dangerous territory and soon find themselves embroiled in a tribal war and the race of the century.Farley writes in such great detail about this epic journey that you feel you are there yourself.
This continues until the end, and keeps you riveted page after page.
It is a stunning sequel and a great continuation of the saga of The Black.
The Black Stallion Returns is probably the BEST book in the Black Stallion Series.
I think there was a movie of this book, and I know that there is a movie of the 1st book in the Black Stallion Series.
Here is a short summary of this AMAZING book:After Alec and the Black (The Black Stallion) win the match race against Cyclone and Sunraider, Alec and The Black become VERY famous.
Some people are not happy with all of this fame to this "Rags to Riches" Horse.
(More like horse-napped) Will Alec ever be able to find the Black ever again?
I think this is where I'll stop rereading this series, as it's just become much too dated and Boys' Own to be much fun. It's still a good classic horse & adventure story but all the casual sexism, racism, colonialism and assorted other -isms of the time diminish its enjoyment a lot.
Continuation of the Black and Alec's adventures.
The book “the black stallion” written by Walter Faney. This book is about a boy named Alic he was in a terrible boat accident, him and a stallion survived. alic and his dad was on the boat when it started on fire. While they were in the boat a stallion was traveling also. When the boat started to burst into flames Alic was scared. As Alic was very scared his dad was trying to find him then Alic fell into the water. Alic woke up on an island with the stallion. As Alic tried to survive the stalli
This book is about a boy named Alic he was in a terrible boat accident, him and a stallion survived.
I really like the book “the black stallion” it shows what can happen if there is an accident like when the boat started on fire.
In the book Alic the boy and the black stallion work together to survive and i think that is very important for the readers to understand and put teamwork in to their life.
People go through so much in life and i think this book is telling them that they can survive anything.
This is the second book in The Black Stallion series.
I loved the book so much, it was super suspenseful.
The guys travel across the desert to find the Black's tribe.
With the hardships of the desert they finally made it.
They met everyone and ran into the villian of this story.
He steals the Black and Alec ends up finding him.
Alec ends up able to race him against some of the best Arabic riders, and Alec did end up winning.
Since that happened the Chief was super impresses and happy with Alec.
He ended up promising to give him Black's first baby, which is a foal.
Continues the story of the Black as Alec travels to his home in the desert. This the first time I've read this since I was maybe 11 or 12, and I'd forgotten how much I learned about how people traveled (by flying boat or boat plane, then by camel caravan across the desert), about religion (details about the daily call to prayer), and about the culture of the desert nomad and the importance of their horses in their culture. Loved every minute.
I vividly remember reading this book in grade 7 and writing a book report on it. It was quite fun to revisit it again as an adult. I am left wondering what regurgitated water out of a camel would taste like? Though I guess if I was dying of thirst in a desert I probably wouldn’t much care!
The girls and I liked it, but I found myself editing some of the language regarding the very few (only?) female characters, and wondering how insensitive the portrayal of life in Saudi Arabia was. An exciting adventure story, with the most awesome horse ever, but not our favorite book.
A must readA simple story to warm the heart and fill it with joy. A must read for all generations and ages.
If you're into stories with a classic-adventurous twist, this book is worth the time to read!
Good adventure read for kids.
I read this series, as a child. I would get heartbroken over the mistreatment and be relieved when wrong was avenged.
loved every book in this series....my best friend Laura and I couldn't read them fast enough
Favourite book of my childhood!
https://youtu.be/OXpRX2LQ7uY Caution : SPOILERS!!!!!!!
Great read.I enjoyed this second book by Walter Farley. The book is written for a younger age but enjoyable by all.
Alec and the Black reunite on the hot sands of the desert. This one was maybe a bit strange, it struck me as odd that Alec could have made it this far. But it's a story, and so much fun and so exciting!!I loved the setting, and of course, the amazing characters.I need to binge read this series again!
This book, The Black Stallion Returns, is the second in the series.
Still, he does take good care of his horse, and is brave for wanting to go to the unknown to find him again.
And there are some things that wouldn't really happen in reality, but this book is good for escape.It's an exciting adventure about a horse.
And for children and even adults revisiting their childhood, this is a good book to read.The Black Stallion ReturnsCopyright 1945199 pagesReview by M.
When I was a kid, I looked favorably on people of Arab decent partly because of The Black Stallion Returns.
Still, I wonder if this book has been pulled from some school library shelves because it is so pro-Arab.
Are we allowed to be pro-Arab in America?
Books for kids were allowed to be more violent, for one thing.
Farley does not mention what breeds went into the mix that produced The Black but he does mention that Arabians (surprise) were in the mix.
This was during my horse/animal stories phase of reading (you know, like Black Beauty and National Velvet).
I was at the library and saw these books and of course I had to read it.This story takes place a few years after the first one.
He takes the Black back with him to Arabia and of course Alec wants him back.
So with the help of Henry and Mr. Volance, Alec embarks to Arabia in search of his friend.
I would recommend this book for other Black Stallion fans, or anyone just looking for a good adventure story.
This book was written with more than a love of horses in mind, it also includes an interesting look into history and gives us a glance into the Arabian culture that modern books tend to completely disregard.
You can almost feel the heat of the desert on you as Alec and the others travel under the hot sun, and as always the experience of riding in a big race is so well told that you can almost feel the wind in your own face.Farley has the ability to create the perfect story with ease, giving just the details needed to keep the heart pumping and letting the imagination do the rest, creating a winning combination for adventure.
This book developed too slowly for me until 3/4 of the way through when the danger increased. Then it actually became a page turner.Pet peeve: How many times did I have to say "Abu Ja Kub Ben Ishak"? Could this man not have an acceptable last name? A nickname? In the very beginning, it seems to be okay to call him Abu Ishak. But then every single mention is a five word name that one must pronounce in one's head...until...Suddenly his name is shortened THREE PAGES BEFORE THE END. Painful. simply painful.
The girls and I enjoyed the second book in the Black Stallion series. We continued our creative license of making Alex into Alice so that the lead character was a girl, and other than the constant cognitive load it put on mommy to make the appropriate pronoun switches, it was totally seamless in the plot. There were a couple of moments of violence that I softened, just because we're queasy in that department, but other than that, the girls particularly enjoyed the suspense aspects of what turned out to be both a tale of adventure and mystery.
A quick trip into childhood by returning to the Black Stallion books.
This story was kind of inevitable - the real owner of the Black turns up and takes him back to Arabia.
But Alec, Henry and Mr. Valence, a racehorse breeder, decide to travel out there to see him.
They get lost in the desert, caught up in a tribal war and Alec ends up riding in a high stakes race - a brilliant plot for a children's story.
Yes, as an adult its very easy to sneer at it, but the inner child in me loved it - a great read.
Similar to the legend of Frank Hopkins in Hidalgo, Alec and The Black run a long distance race across the Arabian Desert. At stake is the ownership of The Black.Walter Farley is a very talented writer. You can tell that he knows his stuff when it comes to horses. His characters and plots are also well developed. His books are ones that are geared toward children, but are written with such class that adults can enjoy them as well.
Continues the story of the Black as Alec travels to his home in the desert. This the first time I've read this since I was maybe 11 or 12, and I'd forgotten how much I learned about how people traveled (by flying boat or boat plane, then by camel caravan across the desert), about religion (details about the daily call to prayer), and about the culture of the desert nomad and the importance of their horses in their culture. Loved every minute.
