https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50453.Hot_Water_Music
Ο πατέρας του Βρόμικου Ρεαλισμού (Dark Realism) επινοεί και καταγράφει (εξαρτάται, πάντοτε, από το σε ποιο βαθμό το σύνολο του έργου του θεωρείται αυτοβιογραφικό ή όχι) ολιγοσέλιδα ανοσιουργήματα: βρόμικες ιστορίες που εκτυλίσσονται στις εξίσου βρόμικες γειτονιές της Πόλης των (Εκπεσόντων) Αγγέλων, που αφορούν αυτούς ακριβώς, τους εξωθημένους στο περιθώριο της αστικής κοινωνίας, τους μπεκρήδες, τις πόρνες και τους ζιγκολό, τα χαμίνια και τα πρεζάκια, τους πορτοφολάδες και τους λαντζέρηδες, τους αυτοκαταστροφικούς ποιητές, όσους με λίγα λόγια δεν τα κατάφεραν να ανοίξουν τα φτερά τους να πετάξουν, είτε γιατί δεν τους έδωσαν ποτέ φτερά, είτε γιατί οι ίδιοι τα τσάκισαν κάπου στην πορεία.
Βαθιές αλήθειες με απλά, αψιμυθίωτα λόγια: «Στον Μάλον άρεσε η ταπεινή ζωή και νομίζω πως του άρεσε και η φτώχεια.
Από τα γράμματά του, σχημάτισα την εντύπωση ότι συνέδεε τη φτώχεια με την αγνότητα.
3,5*10 ιστορίες,πολύ σύντομες.Πρώτη μου επαφή με τον συγγραφέα,με γοήτευσε,χωρίς όμως να με ενθουσιάσει!Σίγουρα θα τον ξαναπιάσω στα χέρια μου,με λιγότερες όμως απαιτήσεις αυτή τη φορά.Στα θετικά:Η γραφή του μου άρεσε πολύ!Κοφτή,ωμή,με αρκετές περιγραφές των προσώπων που συναντούσαμε στις ιστορίες,αλλά και του περιβάλλοντος.Κατάφερε να με βάλει στο κλίμα και κατά έναν περίεργο τρόπο παρουσίασε την παρακμή ιδιαίτερα γοητευτική!Στα αρνητικά:Οι ιστορίες,σαν ιστορίες,δεν με τρέλαναν.Πέρασαν και δεν ακούμπησαν-σε μια βδομάδα θα τις έχω ξεχάσει.Ίσως είχα πολύ υψηλές προσδοκίες..Κάτι μου λέει ότι τα ποιήματά του (ορισμένα από τα οποία έχω ακούσει μελοποιημένα) θα μου ταιριάξουν περισσότερο!
Şöyle söyleyeyim: Ben ne kadar uzay mekiğiysem, Bukowski'nin yaptığı da o kadar edebiyat.
Öykülerin yarısı aslında ona ait değil, Bukowski hayranı biri tarafından yazılmış deseler inanırım.
Öyle olunca kendini taklit eden bir adama dönüşüyor Bukowski ve insanları sevmediğini, kimseyi umursamadığını söyleyen adamın, aslında kitleye istediğini verme kaygısı güttüğünü görüyoruz.
Kendisini tanımaya yaklaşamayan edebiyatçı diye bir şey olamayacağından, Bukowski'nin edebiyatçı olmadığını rahatça söyleyebiliriz.
Yani Bukowski'nin aykırılığı sonuç değil, amaç.
Kitap içerisinde zekâ kırıntısı taşıyan bir adet öykü var.
Bir anlamda bu da başarı.Ayrıca Avi Pardo ve Parantez Yayıncılık'a da laflar hazırladım.
Benzer bir şekilde çevirmişti ama Etgar Keret'ten mi kaynaklanıyor bilemiyorum, daha iyi duruyordu.
باید بگم که حرف نداشت.
In his books he takes his time teasing his message out of dark shadows and, when it is exposed to the light, he crushes its skull with a sledgehammer.Short stories, of course, don't give him as much leisure for dilly-dallying, and as a result his work here is blunter (inasumcuh as that's possible) and duller and far more repetitive.
Head Job, especially, is notable for being the first time that I have ever read Bukowski write something from a woman's point of view, and he does it admirably.This is a decent but repetitive collection of stories, with gems interspersed throughout, but the overall impression is mostly lukewarm, although hardcore fans will love it.
Όλοι έχουμε έναν θείο Σταμάτη και ο Μπουκόφσκι νομίζω ότι είναι ο λογοτεχνικός μου θείος Σταμάτης.Τον γνώρισα γύρω στο 2011 με τις Ερωτικές ιστορίες καθημερινής τρέλας και μου έκανε εντύπωση η απλότητα και η αμεσότητα της γραφής του.
Στη συνέχεια πριν από μερικούς μήνες διάβασα το Τοστ ζαμπόν που λόγω του ότι μιλάμε για μυθιστόρημα (μυθιστορηματική αυτοβιογραφία ας πούμε) άρα εδώ έχουμε μια ιστορία και όχι ένα στιγμιότυπο όπως στα διηγήματά του, πραγματικά με ενθουσίασε θα έλεγα.
Μου φαίνεται απόλυτα λογικό"O γνωστός μηδενιστής Μπουκοφσκι, πεζός εδώ όσο ποτέ -ή και όπως πάντοτε- στην συλλογή διηγημάτων αυτή μιλάει για τα γνωστά, επαναλαμβανόμενα μοτίβα του κόσμου του: Η βρωμιά, η ευτέλεια, το σεξ -και σχεδόν καθόλου ο έρωτας, και ελάχιστα η αγάπη-, το ποτό (πάντα το ποτό) "-Γιατί πίνεις τόσο πολύ; -Δεν ξέρω, ίσως επειδή βαριέμαι" η απάθεια ως τρόπος ζωής, το ξεπούλημα, ο ιππόδρομος, το χαγκόβερ, η φθορά, η θνητότητα, ο θάνατος "αυτό ήταν το χειρότερο πράγμα με τον θάνατο: ¨Ηταν ανιαρός.
Δεν χωράνε στολίδια σ' έναν Βρωμικο Κόσμο- ενός τόσο ασχημου κόσμου αλήθεια, που, σχεδόν γοητευμένος, σχεδόν με δέος, αδυνατείς να τραβήξεις το βλέμμα σου από πάνω του.
More stories, some of the Best Buk stories they is :) Hate everything? Think the world is some sick place where everything we value is falsely raised to be somehow important when it all actually means shit? This is the book for you. Bukowski got it, and he also managed to write some crazy shit about it and lucky for you it can be find just in these pages. Crack her open, and instead of being angry that he's such a douchebag, be furious that you're not.
Αποκρουστικά καλό.
Yeraltından seslenen Bukowski demişki;“Acı çekmek için ayyaş olmak, bir kadın tarafından sıfırlanmak gerekmiyordu.
Ama senin farkında olmadığın ve senin aleyhine işleyen bir takım ortalama hesaplar ve kanunlar vardır, herşeyin yolunda gittiğini sandığın zamanlarda bile.
Bir gece, sıcak bir Salı gecesi o ayyaş sen oluverirsin, sensin o ucuz pansiyon odasında olan, ve daha önce o odalarda olmuş olmanın da bir yararı olmaz, daha da kötüdür hatta, çünkü bir daha bu duruma düşmemeye karar vermişliğin vardır.
Bir sigara daha yakmaktan, bir içki daha içmekten, o sıvası dökük duvarlarda bir çift göz, bir çift dudak aramaktan başka birşey de gelmez elden.
I grinned through the first few chapters, chuckled through the next few, then laughed my ass off for the remaining few.
CB is a new revelation for me, I think I can understand his perpetual depravity.
Maybe depravity is too strong a word.
I'll have to think of the word, if there is one....@ 6am - Beer & Coffee @ 9am - More beer and a few shots of whiskey @ Noon - Even more beer, a few more shots of whiskey and cheap wine.......Sleep......@ 9pm - Two six packs and vodka & whiskey & red wine until the wee hours of the morning.......next day......the same.
This collection of short stories is both beautiful and grotesque.
He is such an ass, and he talks about such base and vile acts...
I could not put it down; I simply had to find out what fucked up thing was going to happen next.
I think that the beauty of Bukowski is that he turns shit into flowers.
An act that you would never consider to be pleasing is suddenly shown in a more light.
Taking a shit.
These things are such social faux-pas to discuss in literature, yet he does it in a captivating way.
πρώτη μου επαφή με τον μπουκόφσκι. έρωτας κεραυνοβόλος.
Unii ar spune că Bukowski este obscen, indecent, violent.
Alții că este afemeiat și bețiv.
Eu spun că în tot ceea ce face Bukowski este genial.
Cărțile sale de proză nu sunt complicate, au multe dialoguri, se citesc ușor (dacă se trece peste limbaj) și exprimă în cuvinte puține și penetrante viața cum este ea.
Eroii din Muzică de belele sunt toți un fel de Henry Chinaski, niște scriitori care s-au adaptat cum nu se poate mai bine la viața periferiei americane, care cheltuiesc banii pe alcool, pariuri și femei, zi după zi, fără pauze.
Un geniu, cum spuneam.
این کتاب رو چند سال پیش خواندم، دقیقاً وقتی اولین بار منتشر شد. برادرم خریده بود، خودم ایدهای دربارهاش نداشتم (گمانم اولین ترجمه بوکوفسکی به فارسی باشه). به هر حالا الان چیزی ازش خاطرم نیست، جز اینکه حین خواندنش خوش گذشت
این کتاب رو چند سال پیش خواندم، دقیقاً وقتی اولین بار منتشر شد. برادرم خریده بود، خودم ایده‌ای درباره‌اش نداشتم (گمانم اولین ترجمه بوکوفسکی به فارسی باشه). به هر حالا الان چیزی ازش خاطرم نیست، جز اینکه حین خواندنش خوش گذشت
The key to understanding what makes Bukowski (in my opinion at least) one of the greatest writers that ever lived lies in this very book, in an often-repeated quote which reads:'Genius might be the ability to say a profound thing in a simple way'The best art (again in my opinion at least) can evoke a certain time and a place so vividly that though you may not even have experienced it, you still live it, clearly visualise it, breathe it.
Hot Water Music is a terrific collection of stories that shock, amuse, and illuminate the way for a lonely soul to find his place in the world.
Ok, me gusta Bukowski, me gusta su estilo, me gusta su crudeza, pero aún así, hay historias que no me gustaron, o por lo menos no tanto como otras, entonces cuando me toca leer 2 historias seguidas que no me gustan (o más), me da un poco de pereza leer las demás, ¿si saben?
Porque igual no tienen una continuación y son ajenas entre sí (la mayoría) y prefiero una sola historia por larga que sea, a 30 historias en un libro.
This is the first thing I read of Bukowski's and his terse style seemed to me like a breath of fresh air.
It's as if he copied Hemingway's style and then mimicked it to the point of caricature.
I believe he took the potentiality of Hemingway's style and magnified it's unpleasantness in a manner similar to how Seth McFarlane exaggerated Matt Groening.
By the way, besides the numerous pop culture references, the thing that really got me psyched to start reading Bukowski was the excellent documentaries on him that are available on Netflix.
تنها دلیلی که کتابو ادامه دادم این بود که توی مسیر م به خونه میخوندمش و خوندن یه مشت پرت و پلا رو به دیدن خیابونایی که سیصد دفعه دیدمشون ترجیح دادم یه چیزی مثل انتخاب بین افتضاح و بد ترین.
و تنها دلیلی که کتابو ننداختم سطل آشغال این بود که مال کتابخونه بود.
داستان های کوتاه و به هم پیوسته که بیشتر مثل خوندن دفتر خاطرات یه آدم مزخرف بود که فقط از مشروب خوردن و اوق زدنش و استفراغ هاش تعریف و توصیف کرده بود و خوندن شعر هاش برای آدم های مزخرف تر از خودش و هیچ جنبه ی ادبی و ارزشی دیگه نداشت.
This was the first Bukowski I ever read. It was a serious eye-opener. Naive of me I know, but in a way I didn't think people could write stuff like this, publish stuff like this. It's easy enough to get hung on the more lascivious aspects, the drinking and the sex and the violence, but what really set him apart was his honesty, and his lack of fear in expressing things about himself that are unpalatable, unflattering, and the way he makes me laugh with him, at him. It taught me how to really laugh at myself.
Me recordaron a las conversaciones entre Dorian Gray & Lord Henry.
Están llenos de humor que nace por el estoicismo y cinismo de los personajes; los cuales, a la hora de la verdad, son el reflejo de una profunda soledad.Por último, Música de cañerías también es perfecto para conocer sin abrumarse al alter ego de Bukowski.
El autor presenta de forma gradual y no de golpe la deconstrucción del personaje para que el lector, a través de los diferentes relatos en que Chinaski es el protagonista, conozca, aprecie, ame e inclusive odie, las diferencias y similitudes, intencionales, de Henry y su creador.
Three dozen tales of drinking and nihilistic tendencies show Bukowski at a literary high and the inhabitants of the world at a moralistic low.German-born American author Charles Bukowski (1920-1994) had, at the time of 1983’s short story collection Hot Water Music (Ecco, ISBN:0876855966), made a career on taking his life-experiences and turning them into self-proclaimed “tales of ordinary madness.” With Hot Water Music, he uses breaks no new ground in his literary career, instead putting out another exceptionally-written anthology of bad people doing bad things.
I hadn't looked at any of his short stories in some time, so I picked up one I hadn't previously read, HOT WATER MUSIC.
And I'm not saying he sold out---the guy never came close to doing so.Then, what's my problem with HOT WATER MUSIC?
HOT WATER MUSIC reads like a self-satisfied author, seriously in need of a editor (all those lengthy, jam-packed paragraphs!) pandering to his audience.This man wrote books (POST OFFICE, WOMEN, DAYS RUN AWAY LIKE WILD HORSES..., LAST NIGHT OF THE EARTH POEMS) which will live forever.
HOT WATER MUSIC isn't one of them.
My only prior exposure to Bukowski was Post Office and his enormous hipster rep.
Boasting atrocious dialogue and distracted endings, pretty much each story features a tough-guy character transparently serving as a Bukowski stand-in who annihilates a willing blond and knows how to rate a horse.
Now and then, there's a shadow of a moment or a half-turn of phrase that remind you that Bukowski was supposed to be a writer.
I don't know if this is my encroaching decrepitude speaking, but--seriously--are you kidding me?Cf. Hubert Selby, Jr.
There's something extremely appealing in Bukowski's raw minimalism. There's no need for more essence than that of the concise short stories that somehow seem to intertwine both in style and in content. A book I thoroughly recommend.
شخصيت محوري داستان هاي بوکفسکي،هنري چيتانسکي نام دارد.او اديبي است بدمست که درباره همه امور با صراحت
De hecho, muchas veces sentí que lo que aquí había era un ánimo (por no decir voracidad) tanto del escritor como del editor en explotar la marca "Bukowski".
De todos los que he leído, tal vez sea este libro el que sentí menos sincero y, por ello, más repetitivo e insustancial.Empero, subsisten con nitidez y franqueza un par de relatos que merecen ser leídos: La muerte del padre (I y II), Grita cuando te quemes, Puteo Lírico, El pájaro que se remonta (tiene una vibra, ironía y sensibilidad especial), Decadencia y caída (cuento con cierto aire dostoyevskiano).
This is a good collection of short stories, all of which were very quick reads, so it felt like I made nice progress.As for the stories themselves, they were vintage Bukowski, primarily focused on sex, booze, violence, and desperately dirty people.
What really struck me while I was reading this collection is that Bukowski is, in a way, the evolution of literary naturalism.
But Bukowski resists the urge to "study" his characters like a sociologist, and he also resists the urge to glorify poverty and write the whore-with-a-heart-of-gold cliche.
Al abrir un libro de Bukowski se puede esperar de todo, excepto decencia.Esto queda totalmente demos
Bukowski's collection of short stories address the destructive and lonely nature of human existence. This is usually made by most writers in an extravagant, fiction-like manner, but Charles Bukowski brings destruction into his work through the normal, everyday dirty work that portrays the dark side to human achievement and society. His collection helped me realize that my ideal, no matter how surreal, can still be found in everyday observations on human life. This type of realism that he uses helps the reader connect his vague depression to the tiny ordeals of everyday life.
