https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76963.The_Mystery_of_the_Spiral_Bridge
One of the best I’ve read that isn’t wrote by Leslie Mcfarlane, I was really surprised with how much suspense and action their was. One of the best Hardy Boys books I’ve read...
In this book of the Hardy Boys series it is a continuation of the previous book (#44 The Haunted Fort).
So now his sons must pick up where he left off in the investigation of a mob jeopardizing Mr. Prito's company.This book had many different plot twists in it, and I enjoyed the storyline very much.
I found it to be one my favorite books in the series.
The author was able to make all the scenes very vivid and intense.When you read this book you will be taken on a journey of: several near death experiences, close calls, and an exciting triumph over unlikely odds.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys, Frank and Joe, are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their father's footsteps.
More mystery, more excitement, more fun.
Another good mystery by Franklin W.Dixon.Love Joe and Frank,can't wait to get my hands on another Franklin W.Dixon book.I loved Nancy Drew and these books in my younger years.Still love them :)
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
read when I was 10 through 13
Read in 2005.
Anyway, I thought "Spiral Bridge" was quite a good story.
Early on in the book, the boys catch one of the gang who was trying to retrieve a nylon rope he had left tied to the Hardy house when he earlier broke into their attic – (the thief must have really cared for that rope – risking capture to get it back!).
This came in handy when Radley was able to dictate to them some prison slang that the boys used to make it look like they were jailbirds.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
Action! Excitement! Adventure! This was another good one. Fenton Hardy is so useless.
I really enjoyed this book. One reason I really liked it so much was that it evolved a lot of sabotage. My favorite part of this book was when Chet finds a bomb under the bridge. Chet has been doing a lot of shot putting lately and thinks quickly and shot puts the bomb into the river away from the bridge.
A great Hardy Boys mystery.
This Hardy Boys book has the brothers enlisting the help of all of their friends to go undercover at a construction site and figure out why the bridge they are building is being sabotaged. It’s very kitschy and full of plot holes, but kids might like the energy of the characters as they ‘solve’ the crime.
JMAR5-Dix
...
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1994.
The Hardys get into an investigation involving a construction crew
possibly read in winter 1967
I remember starting this book, but I don't remember finishing it. It's marked as finished on my offline book list, so I dunno.
