https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1144334.Behind_the_Urals
Author Scott lived and worked and married and had children in ussr working as a welder then in a chemical plant and went to higher education in red learning and sciences. The descriptions of building the biggest steel mills/blast furnaces anywhere in the middle of nowhere ( Magnitogorsk) are detailed, gritty, and don’t white wash anything. Neat look at ussr before wwii.
An American worker goes to Magnitogorsk to "build socialism" during the First Five Year Plan. A memoir of a true believer.
A must read for anyone wanting to understand the hope that communism inspired. Also a must read for anyone wanting to understand how communism also crushed those hopes.
Towards the end of this book, John references a discussion with a comrade where he begins to question the experience and his colleague reminds of the comparative evils of John’s nation of birth, such as slavery, proving that “Whataboutism” isn’t a recent or uniquely American development.
A thorough, if romantic, portrait of High Stalinism in the Ural Stronghold.
It took four years for him to finally get permission for his wife and child to leave the country with him, and it was an uncomfortable time, denied permission to work and, like all Russians, living in fear of the knock on the door that would lead to arrest, torture, abjuration by friends and family, and probably death.Marxism was entirely theoretical (Marx couldn’t lead a revolution; he couldn’t even support his family, and spent most of his life sponging off Engels).
Socialism was only a promise, and in the end one that was bitterly betrayed, but under the czars most Russians never had any hope at all of a better life.
Great account of the hardships of workers in the Soviet Union who are motivated by the cause of building socialism. Super interesting to see the evolution of their initial unreserved support for the Bolsheviks' communism and their patronisation of those who had to "suffer" capitalism to their eventual acceptance of privation and growing skepticism of the "greater cause."Though I like the neutral-observer characteristic of the American author immersing himself in this completely different society, it would have been even more interesting with first-hand accounts by Russian-born workers who had witnessed the entire revolution interspersed.
The common man inside view of a very mediocre societal system which hopefully wont make a return, its all I can say. Orwell's Animal Farm put to practice.
I read this in a history class on totalitarianism, the book itself told the human story behind totalitarian regimes and the impact of Stalin's five year plans on ordinary working people. The one thing I remember is the disillusionment of the author, his optimism upon reaching what he thought would be a socialist utopia and his realization of the hardship and squalor of industrializing USSR.
Built with imported equipment and by uneducated farmers, the project is obtained with much blood and sweat.Scott goes between depictions of daily life and descriptions of industrial conditions and materials.
His accounts of daily life are the most interesting, but the information about imported goods and the vagaries in production schedules sheds light on the interconnectedness of the early USSR with the capitalist world, and how volatile its early socialization projects were.I admit the writing style isn't the best, and when Scott writes about his wife and daughter, the treatment is so perfunctory I wish he would just stop.All in all a really interesting look into an incredible period of Soviet history.
The book presented an interesting view of a segment of Russian society, from about 1932 - 1940.
In the book you learn about how Russia built and industrial revolution in a very short period of time.
The author kind of glazes over the atrocities and horrible conditions of these times and even of Stalins great purges of 1938 - 1939.
He does talk about them, but he tries to accentuate the positive.
Not really the good, but more positive then the reality probably was.
He usually does this economically.
Using many figures of production to illustrate the successes sometimes ignoring the costs in human suffering.
3.5 stars, but I'll round up.This was one of the more enjoyable non-fiction books I've read (though I don't read many). It followed John Scott as he lived and learned in the Soviet Union during the 1930s. It was definitely revealing, giving an insider perspective from an outsider, and Scott created a nice balance between personal narrative and history. It was quite informative and easy to read, all in all, a pleasant experience.
A compelling tale... like pretty much everyone else who thought the Soviet state was a great idea of human progress, the reality was disappointing. Worth reading to get insight into the push to industrialize and the reality of Soviet life.
An interesting story of ex-patriot moving to the freshly minted Soviet Union during the Great Depression. A little heavy on statistical data, but telling of the enduring hardships faced against the weather and the Soviet bureaucracy in forming their new government.
This book is not for everyone. But...if you are interested in history without being a fanatic, this is a good read. It is written as a memoir to some extent and deals with life in post-revolution Russia (USSR, whatever) and the people who immigrated there with big ideals.
I can't remember a single God-foreskin thing about this book except that I read it for an Intro to Politics class my first quarter of college.
Interesting account of the early years of the Soviet Union told by an American who went to the USSR shortly after the revolution.
Really interesting.
Textbook for 20th Century Russia class. Good first hand account of Russia's first Five Year Plan. I thought it was a little dry and slow in some parts.
Re-reading this for some atmosphere.
Fascinating story of an American mechanical engineer who went to the USSR to build the Magnitogorsk iron and steel complex. Unbelievable working conditions and a fascinating story
I read this book in college and enjoyed it greatly because it proved how horrible the communist system was.
Fascinating story - primary source for a time and era for which primary sources are difficult to find. Surprisingly easy to read.
An interesting book that takes on a decidedly different tone once you get to the appendices and find the dispatches the author sent back to the US State Dept during his stay in the USSR.
Clear, journalistic writing makes this account incredibly insightful, while simultaneously (and possibly without Scott's knowledge) pointing to the extreme tension of the Soviet system.
