https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22325.Idoru
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Techno-Dystopia: "Idoru" by William GibsonI think it's very telling - and promising, that this guy who thinks he can predict an apocalyptic future for Earth where 80% of people are killed has had at least the first part of his dystopian fantasy fall at the first hurdle.
The future is a lot less SF than people think.
If you want my prediction (you don’t), we can expect a future that is less technology focused and more experience focused.
You know, it seems like I would really like William Gibson, from what I've heard of him, but there's something about his writing that leaves too much out.
This book is the first of his I've been able to finish.
I still don't feel like I understood everything he was trying to say--something about a melding of science and nature, centered around the music star Rez and the idoru Rei. It was interesting, but I kept feeling like it was something I was reading out of the corner of my eye, and every time I looked directly at it, it slipped away.
10/25/2012Last night my daughter introduced me to one of her hot new things on YouTube:  Hatsune Miku, a purely synthetic pop star.
In return, I introduced her to this book in which Gibson predicts such a thing, twenty years ago.
Then we checked out her other hot new thing,  the PBS Idea Channel and among other things, we watched Mike Rugnetta talk about the connections between Gibson, Hatsune Miku, Lana del Rey, pop culture, technology and art.
And then I told her about a show that used to be on, Connections by James Burke, which did much the same, albeit with less about art and more about technological breakthroughs.
Bookended by his wildly popular Sprawl series and his later uber-cool Blue Ant trilogy, Bridge seems to be the Grunge 90s of his set, not as hip-flashy as the 80s nor as Ka-Ching as his Y2K writing.
But as Grunge exhibited some refreshing and earthy revitalization of popular hard rock, so too does his Bridge writing add some edgy verve to the SF landscape.As in his other writings, Idoru is a very loose sequel to the first, keeping contact with some characters, but the plot is new and stands alone in his post-change world building.You can’t really call his Sprawl books dystopian or post-apocalyptic, they are simply a near future glimpse into a world that has taken a hard turn and its residents are living the dream and taking care of business.
Quote: ...I think I'd probably tell you that it's easier to desire and pursue the attention of tens of millions of total strangers than it is to accept the love and loyalty of the people closest to us.There is an odd surface tension here; some readers may approach Idoru from the wrong bias, through the lens of  Neuromancer  and the Sprawl trilogy. Those readers will expect the traditional cyberpunk romp of amphetamine-fueled Yakuza battles and twisted violent sex in coffin hotels; those readers
"Celebrity" is data presented as intimacy -- the fine-grained details of some person's life presented to you in all their banal urgency, more fantasy than reality, ever out of reach, inevitably unable to satisfy your need to share and experience.Consider Kathy Torrance's rant about celebrity as a mirror to Alison Shires and Laney's own back-story.
Taman kada čovek pomisli da se istrošio i da period stagnacije u knjizi najavljuje dosadu, mašinerija se pokreće i ne dozvoljava da ispustite knjigu iz ruku.Gibson ko Gibson - odličan, inspirativan, kreativan, imaginativan.
I really thought I will enjoy this but it seems too unrealistic for me barely able to finish this.
As with Virtual Light, the selling point of this book is the setting, not so much the story.
Gibson's futuristic Tokyo is not too different from present-day Tokyo, but it's still fun to walk the streets of nanotechnology-enhanced Shinjuku and feel the uncanny thrill of a place that is at once familiar and wholly strange.And, as with Virtual Light, I found myself far more engrossed in the coming-of-age side-story than the hardboiled noire backbone on which the novel rests.
For sheer ambience, I preferred the Bridge from Virtual Light, but Chia's quest through real and virtual worlds was a welcome and delightful addition to the series and made Idoru, on balance, an equally fun read.
About half the way into this book I had a rough outline for this review in my head.
It went somewhere along the lines of "if Gibson's stories sucked you in as his world descriptions do he would write the best books ever..." And that was when the story grabbed me!So why did I rate it 4 stars and not 5?
Even the main protagonists could be Idorus judging by their bleak impressions and I frequently jumped back to find out who was who.Still; well-written, really good book and incredibly impressive almost 20 years now(!)
Laney could be borrowed from a "psychological thriller": caught up in more than he can handle; blinking and naive, yet obediently following the script.The virtual-world settings are decorated with robust detail and toyish icons, like a child's dream.
But we are curious how the pieces will come together: nested virtual worlds, a hand-held nano-assembler, one naive 14-year old girl, one hired savant out of his depth, and a criminal underworld on their tail.There is a satisfying ending with emotive appeal.
Read this book for the techno-riffing or a taste of worlds to come, not for drama or characters.
One might guess that it is because I liked "Idoru" better than VL, but I think it is another subjective factor.
So, I suspect that familiarity with the locations and real-world culture and people helped make a stronger impression on me than people living in San Francisco (which city I have only seen from within the terminals of its airport.)Having presented my 'mea culpa' for being human, let me say that I really liked this book and was not at all disappointed in it, as it may seem based on the goodreads average rankings that I saw when entering the title.
The story world of this book is a believable take on the not-too-distant future.
I loved the fantastic worlds people create together to interact online, and the way their avatars have morphed into fully-loaded alter egos.
She's not so naive as all that in the rest of the book, so this action seemed out of character to me.Since the plot revolves around Rez, a rock star and celebrity of the future, it's a bit disappointing that Gibson doesn't, in the end, give us a very detailed idea of what he's really up to.
Not as good as Virtual Light.
Tokyo setting yet the plot feels less like jap cyberpunk than Virtual Light.
Not because I was ever going to file them into any type of budgetting system, but because it'd be a mechanism of socialization whereby I could discuss an idea where the story is merely the metadata, the receipts, of the plot it describes.
Laney essentialy reads a book like that _& gets it_Somehow the 2nd paragraph of this review got into describing the rest of the other twin story & stuff, but I'm afraid I can't reconstruct those thoughts any longer
After a few of Gibson's cyberpunk novels, I'm starting to see a pattern in the structure of his plots and the composition of his worlds.
But where Virtual Light's version of Los Angeles dealt with disaster by plodding onwards, leaving behind infrastructure that had crumbled along with those who chose to inhabit it, Idoru's Tokyo raised buildings overnight with nanotechnology and strove to pretend that nothing had happened.I thought that was interesting, but I don't really know what to make of it; maybe the next book will shine more light on what Gibson is trying to say.
Or hey, maybe I'm reading too much into a sci-fi thriller novel.
After a dip in quality with Virtual Light, Gibson returns to fine form in Idoru, with some of his most fully realized characters and a plot that speeds along quite nicely, although the novel still suffers from some of the quirks I've come to associate with Gibson.
I re-read it (even though there are about 50 new books that stare at me from shelves) and got reminded why I love cyberpunk and this book in particular. Why hasn't anyone filmed this yet??
A fast-paced, exciting story about the intersections of realities and identity. This is also one of the rare books that gets the mindset behind fandom. An impressive piece of cyberpunk.
As good as anything I've read by Gibson. I can't get enough of his vision of the future of cyberspace.
Тут центральный сюжет прост и он практически повторяет сюжет первой книги цикла - случайно украли ценную вещь, и теперь за героиней охотится якудза, русские бандиты и кто его знает, кто еще.
И конечно же где-то рядом есть тайные компьютерные сети и некий сетевой персонаж (цифровой), на котором хочет женится вокалист известной группы.
Как бы на самом деле все просто, ситается легко и быстро.
Но да, впечатляться в 2018 году книгой сложно.
Мы знаем и мморпг, и цифровых вокалистов, и много чего еще.
Но эта книга чуточку лучше первой.
Может быть потому, что действие происходит в Японии?
Одноразовое чтиво про умерший киберпанк
It took me a very long time to get into this book. I suspect that has a lot to do with the speed of technological advancement, as some of what is discussed no longer seems plausible or seems outdated somehow. Still, by the end of the book I was speedily reading as the plot had become more captivating.
The characters are shamelessly cliche and 2-dimensional: the tech-savvy wise-cracking teenage girl who scraps her way out of trouble even though she seems like she should be in...something?
Nothing would change, no one would be ruined, and you can't possibly feel attached to these characters enough to even care much if they're mildly disappointed or disillusioned anyway.
There's no way for this not to seem dated, and maybe the hip teenage tech whiz trope wasn't so much of a cliche at the time (the Laney/Kurt Russell character definitely was though).
But there is real conflict with real plot twists and real intrigue, making it rewarding to read even now.
I think this is my favorite Gibson novel so far. Or it's tied with "Virtual Light." It's the combination of a fun and engaging plot, and two main characters in Chia and Laney that are easy to root for. I also found myself liking "Keithy" Blackwell. I'm not sure what it says that I like him, but there it is. LOLNow it's on to "All Tomorrow's Parties"!
In our world today the ability to data mine and find these nodal points has become an actual growing career and something this book not only foretold but also shows some of the possible issues if people might ever be able to be as adept at this skill as the main character is.The issue i think i have with this book is that the William Gibson trait of having multiple story lines that connect and culminate in interesting ways felt more forced than usually.
A failed attempt at preventing a suicide has made him a bit of a black sheep but just the kind of person the staff of Lo/Rez want to hire to figure out just what is up with the whole marriage to a computer simulation thing, whether he's being manipulated or lost his mind or is simply really, really turned on by zeroes and ones in the shape of a lady.Thus, Laney gets to live the dream while hanging out with everyone's favorite band, who seem to be more into being a famous band than actually doing anything that resembles making music .
It must be hard for an author to write in a genre they've already written the defining novel for, and while this novel doesn't quite match the heights of some of his earlier work, it's still a good cyber-punk read.
The story also has a weird, almost subdued beat.Those might sound like criticisms, but actually work in the book's favour.
More than that it seemed more like it just faded away.Overall I enjoyed it, but it lacked the depth and colour I appreciated from his earlier books.

Gibson writes well and convincingly.
He incorporates the specifics of his futuristic world.
The problem is, he has done it better before, and with greater detail, so fans are not likely to forgive him for a simpler world and story.
Still, reading any Gibson book is a treat, especially compared with much of what's out there.
His ability to incorporate near-future technology with an exciting story that fits perfectly inside this fabricated world is astounding even on this smaller scale.
Reads like a screenplay.
I've made my constant William Gibson mistake again and not checked to see if this book is a part of a series.
So it seemed to stand alone well enough to me, though I'm now going to read the Bridge trilogy out of order.
I'm not sure how much of my review will need to be adjusted for that after reading the whole body of work.Regardless, I plow on.The first half I found a bit of a painful trudge through Gibson's favorite tropes and stock characters.
It picked up around the midway point as the plotlines began to converge towards a climax.
I feel like I should be awarding this one more p0ints, maybe after I've read Virtual Light.
Cyberpunk, and Gibson's cyberpunk in particular, is defined by a gritty, tactile, future. The brands, the computers, the specificity of object and place serve to make good cyberpunk dense and hard. This is not good cyberpunk, rather, to borrow an image from the book, it's a lacquered full-scale replica of a cyberpunk novel. All the surfaces are there; the AI love story, the post-modern technological mercenaries, simulated realities, and philosophical musings on a plastic celebrity culture, but when you lean on it, there's nothing underneath. But hey, Gibson on his worst day is still better than the Baen back catalog.
It was another "Count Zero." A bland filler with bland leads, that had a few good side characters and moments.
As with the "Sprawl" trilogy, the "Bridge" trilogy's good books are 1 and 3.
Most frustrating about this book was the fact that its premise was really interesting, and felt shoved into the background (the rock star wanting to marry the fictional character).
I did kind of like Chia Pet Mackenzi, but in the same way I like Marley from "Count Zero" and Bella Swan in the pre-Edward chapters of "Twilight;" just a generic enough heroine who I felt was relatable in a brain-melting kind of way, until I realized she just lacked a personality.
Luckily book 3 is far better.
