https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31393997-he-said-she-said
This was a fine example of how men and women tend to deal with stress and trauma to the psyche in differing ways and I’m grateful that the author chose to develop the story not just within the plot, but on an emotional level as well.I’m going to leave the rest up to you to decide if you want to read this book; I feel like those readers who enjoy literary thrillers in the domestic fiction realm will really take to He Said/She Said.
I was asleep by 8:15pm last night -- so luckily I got almost 7 hours of sleep.....I picked up my Kindle next to my bed to begin reading one of the ebook library books I recently checked out.
I USUALLY DON'T bother to write reviews for books I don't finish --but I'm making an exception tonight -at 2:30am.
I am satiated by books written from alternating POV.
Too many books - period - are written in this style ...
I AM NOT A FAN of ALTERNATING POV writing!!!!Plus, I wasn't interested in the metaphor of the solar eclipse---( characters are bright or dark...
I'd rate this 4.5 stars. Now that's the way you do a thriller.Kit and Laura are young and newly in love in the summer of 1999. Kit, who has been chasing solar eclipses since his childhood, convinces Laura to join him on a trek to Cornwall for a festival, during which they're expected to see a total eclipse of the sun. While the weather doesn't quite cooperate to give them the full eclipse experience, it still wows Laura, as she truly understands why Kit finds these events so mesmerizing, and lov
While the weather doesn't quite cooperate to give them the full eclipse experience, it still wows Laura, as she truly understands why Kit finds these events so mesmerizing, and loves being able to share them with the man she loves.Walking back to their campsite after the eclipse, Laura comes upon a man and a woman.
While she's apparently referred to as "the queen of the killer twist," I think if you just let the story unfold as Kelly intended it, and don't keep focusing on the twist, you'll be able to concentrate on all of the things that made this a great thriller.NetGalley and St. Martin's Press provided me an advance copy of the book in exchange for an unbiased review.
Over a year later I finally had my hands on it and was excited to start reading.The book opens with two women standing in a restroom, side by side at the sinks in front of the mirror.
They live in a bustling part of London which gives her and her husband what they need....anonymity.Laura is pregnant and Kit is going out-of-town to see the latest eclipse.
Laura is very anxious but wants Kit to enjoy himself.
In some ways Kit's glad to be traveling alone, and that he doesn't have to worry about Laura's safety too.
So I don't think there's any way I can talk about this book without spoiling it so uh just don't read anything if you don't want to know.
Can I just say that I did enjoy this book immensely, and that I know a while back I read a book about not getting the big deal about eclipses but this book made me rethink that.
For some reason the way the author for this book talked about eclipses really worked much better in terms of making me understand what the appeal is than for the other book I read, probably because this was fiction and that was nonfiction.
This is a dark, murky and atmospheric psychological thriller, it is a tale of Laura and her boyfriend, Kit, chasing an eclipse in Cornwall where Laura happens to see a violent attack being carrried out on Beth by Jamie.
Years later in the present, Laura is pregnant and Kit is off to chase another eclipse as the past comes back to threaten their lives once more.
It is an intricately plotted story revolving around the four characters, their relationships and interactions with each other and the issue of perception.
Those twists!
I'm reeling from how good this book was.
You will feel so many different feelings reading this book.
Kit is an eclipse chaser - travelling around to the best world vantage points to see a solar eclipse.
Laura's love for Kit has her share his passionate hobby.
All the brightness covered just for a moment.I can't rave more - it's just a must read book.
Be ready for the twists and reveals.
They come like a sledgehammer to the heart.Utter brilliance.
This book catapults into my Top 17 Reads of 2017, skipping the long and the shortlist.
(especially Kit) Even with limited funds, they travel around for the amazing experience of it all....so fun....until the incident....until their lives are turned upside down....now they look over their shoulder....now they live in fear....and they make some dangerously foolish decisions along the way.....Alternating past and present, Kit and Laura gradually disclose pieces of the puzzling storyline with some wonderfully creepy moments, surprising reveals, and a killer of a tweak at the finish line that makes HE SAID SHE SAID my kind of read!....AND, in the end, even after ALL the pages had been turned, I STILL could NOT shake the eerie untrustworthy feeling I had for....you know who!
HE SAID/SHE SAID by ERIN KELLY is a slow-building, dark, and twisted psychological thriller that is cleverly formatted into parts that conforms to the five stages of a total eclipse of the sun.
Then when I got around to 100 - 150 pages in everything started to fall into place and then I couldn’t put this novel down.ERIN KELLY delivers an extremely fun, atmospheric, and enjoyable read here with some surprising twists and turns and a few unexpected reveals!
In 1999, college sweethearts Kit and Laura attend an eclipse festival in Cornwall where they interrupt a rape.
Laura befriends the victim, Beth.
Fast forward 15 years later, Kit and Laura have gone to extreme measures to hide from Beth.
Told from Kit and Laura’s alternating POV’s, it eventually becomes clear that all is not what it seems.I thoroughly enjoyed this book; I thought I had things figured out, but I got totally taken in by one of the characters and didn’t read between the lines to see the truth.
Just as there are different phases in an eclipse, so are there different phases to this book!Eclipse chasers Kit and Laura are set to experience their first eclipse together at one of many festivals held around the world.
Perhaps even some day with their children.
Told from both Kit and Laura's p.o.v, the story incorporates two separate time-lines.
Present day and 15 years earlier, when everything began spiraling out of control.
So in keeping with that theme I’ll to divide my review into 2 separate parts.
(Actually gasped twice!)Sorry to say I can't reveal much more about the story-line without giving it away.
I'm done. I can't go any further. This is just toooo slow for me. DNF at 35%. The writing is good and so is the narration. This is the audio version. I'm wondering if it is better in hardcopy.
It is only as the story progresses that the reader learns of events that transpired at the eclipse of 1999, where Laura came upon Beth and Jamie Balcombe, engaged in some primal sexual encounter.
Kelly offers the reader some interesting perspectives as it comes to character development, building a persona in both the past and present simultaneously.
Using the solar eclipse, both literal and metaphorical, serves to present the reader with the essential aspects of the story, whereby the characters shine at moments and scurry away to hide at others.
But at the base-rock level of morality, I felt no guilt. My lie was a route to the truth: therefore, truth it was.  This book had done such weird shit on me - not until the very the last sentence did I ever imagine, for all the 400 pages of it, that (view spoiler)[Laura (hide spoiler)] would be the one character who I recoiled from the most. It’s inexplicable. Even to myself. Considering other obvious bullshit, fucked up mess going on in the story. But there you go.The sharp writing, realistic
But at the base-rock level of morality, I felt no guilt.
This book had done such weird shit on me - not until the very the last sentence did I ever imagine, for all the 400 pages of it, that (view spoiler)[Laura (hide spoiler)] would be the one character who I recoiled from the most.
The first half was so intriguing, it was hard for me to leave the book alone.
I particularly enjoyed (view spoiler)[the courtroom portion.
(hide spoiler)]If it was 50 pages shorter, I would have enjoyed it a lot more.
As it was, several parts felt dragged out, I assume to lengthen the paranoia/anxiety/suspense.
.. but alas, we do not get to have do overs, and neither do Kit and Laura, who were faced with such an event in 1999, and as of 2015, they have yet to escape its aftermath.
For most of his life, Kit has been fascinated by Solar Eclipses.
Laura, believing Beth to be in shock, and takes over and gets Kit to find help and gets the police involved, thus changing the course of their lives forever.
The second half of the book was almost as slow, though it had more unexpected twists and turns, but unfortunately, it just didn’t live up to the hype.
This book is spell-binding.
Do not spoil this book for yourself!
Kit and Laura are young and in love.
Not long after they meet, Laura accompanies Kit on one of his many eclipse chasing adventures.
Laura's fascination with them stems from Kit, and she's found his enthusiasm contagious.
As witnesses, Kit and Laura have to testify in the trial, as Jamie's defense tries to paint Beth as a reckless and promiscuous woman who consented to rough sex with a man she barely knew.
Kit is still traveling to see eclipses, but he must do so carefully.
Copy furnished by Net Galley for the price of a review.A story of obsession, lies, and crippling paranoia. Someone is dancing dangerously close to the edge of madness. This one is made for those who prefer their psychological disquiet to slowly simmer before it breaks into a rolling boil. The title is right on the money. Eclipses are cool, and this story is stellar.
Briefly, there are two witnesses to the aftermath of a sexual assault, and this is the story of how it affects the lives of all involved.
And boy, does it ever follow.There is much to be said of how the issue of sexual assault was portrayed here - from the perspectives of the victim, witnesses, accused, media and how it affects these individuals for the rest of their lives.
I have read all but one of the books written by this author and found them all very readable, suspenseful, love how she tackles different themes in each.
In this one there are the moral questions of when and if it is every okay to lie, even if you are sure it is to correct an egregious wrong and do the end every justify the means, in a relationship or the law?
Loved the structure of this book, centered around the different phases of an eclipse, each phase reveals a new revelation in the ongoing story.
I really wanted to love this the way most readers here seem to, but something about it fell flat for me.
That being said, it was not bad, and the writing was genuinely good.
Still, while I could feel sympathy for their troubles, the characters felt whiny and not very likable.
Undeterred, I think I will launch into the new Ruth Ware next, so fingers crossed it will be more satisfying!Final words - He Said/She Said is not bad or boring, just not as special or engaging as I was hoping it would be.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
He Said/She Said has been touted as THE psychological thriller of the summer, and it is receiving a huge amount of positive publicity.
It had everything I love in a thriller- the perfect pacing, fleshed out characters, mounting tension, great writing, an original plot, a twist I did not see coming; it really was the perfect read.
Trigger warning: as is mentioned in the synopsis, there is an attack on a female early on, and it does come up again throughout the book.
Thanks to the author and the publisher, I received a surprise ARC in exchange for an honest review.
He Said/She Said is a gripping, intriguing, and a slow-paced tangled story of lies, secrets, and deceit that had me turning the pages as fast as I could and I finished reading this story in 24 hours.
At times the pace was a bit too slow for me and I wasn’t all that interested in the eclipse storyline but this didn’t take away from the suspense of the story for me or the change the pace while I was reading this story.The ending was very rewarding for me as I figured out the twist but still was shocked with how things concluded making for a very satisfying ending for me.
Not in a loud and sudden way that disappears almost immediately (although there is a moment in this book where that happens too) but in the way my mind has quietly wandered back to contemplate the nuances, to think about consequences and to wonder at life.He Said She Said is beautifully atmospheric, the backdrop of eclipse chasers giving it a clever and intriguing setting that moves with the plot, but the main hook here comes with the utterly fascinating characters we meet within the pages.
4.5⭐If I could sum up this book in one sentence it’d be - a misdirection at its absolute finest. What the actual fuck. Those twists, even for me were too messed up to foresee. I thought I knew all. I knew shit. Literally nothing! High intrigue. Weird AF twists. Good pacing. I went into this prepared for a 3-star read. At best. But all in all, better than what I’d expected. So much better.
4.5⭐️If I could sum up this book in one sentence it’d be - a misdirection at its absolute finest. What the actual fuck. Those twists, even for me were too messed up to foresee. I thought I knew all. I knew shit. Literally nothing! High intrigue. Weird AF twists. Good pacing. I went into this prepared for a 3-star read. At best. But all in all, better than what I’d expected. So much better.
4.5 I’m embarrassed that I have taken so long to write my thoughts on this book, but I've upped my rating as I have had time to let this book sink in.Initially I was taken in by the characters and the excitement around an eclipse.
Laura stumbles on a rape during an eclipse party and accuses Jamie, the perpetrator, of rape and he takes off.
Too much eclipse detail or maybe it was the hidden identities of Laura and Kit. Perhaps the reasons behind the paranoid behavior took too long to come to light.
This is an incredibly slow-burn thriller that plays primarily with character dynamics and fear over who we can trust, and listen, I get it, that’s not everyone’s type, but that is my exact book taste in one paragraph.I mean, I guess, here’s my list of why you should read this.➽it was so fucked up➽the slow pace really added dramatic tension➽the characters were so compelling and 20/10➽loved the time skips➽I think the narrative is so brilliant in how it misleads➽the last 25% is brilliant and basically changed me as a person➽PLEASE read this if you like thrillersBlog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
He said/ she said by Erin Kelly is an enthralling, preoccupying and twisted, must read thriller revolving around Laura, Kit, Beth and Jamie who were all in Cornwall in the Summer of 1999 to watch the eclipse, unbeknown to them, what happened on the night of the eclipse will alter their future and keep them connected forever.
This causes Laura to question what really happened the night of the eclipse and leaves her and Kit with no other option but to change their identities and to go into hiding.
3.5 starsStrange things happen during an eclipse...
and this book is all about eclipses.
Laura and her boyfriend Kit are attending an eclipse festival.
The paths of their lives are forever changed when Laura becomes a witness to an attack that night and asks Kit to go after the accused attacker.
The first half had a very slow pace for me and then picked up as more secrets and motives were revealed.
I wouldn't call this one a page-turner, but rather a revelation of motives.
The end is both revealing and chilling.Thank you to Netgalley, Erin Kelley, and St.Martin's Press.
Each secret is entwined with the new friend/crime victim and the relevant court case.
As the actual crime begins to take a backseat in the plot it is trust lost that comes to the fore and the measures taken to hide the secrets as they grow out of control.I enjoyed the storyline and it was a compelling read.
As the plot begins to revolve around the measures taken to keep the secrets I found myself questioning the secret that Laura keeps from Kit. To the end of this book I could not understand why she just didn't tell him.
The writing was smart, the characters were interesting, if a little hard to like.
Loved it!Interspersed with travels to eclipse locations, which was a big part of the story, I found this to be a nice welcome addition.A little complaint, however.
I thought the justice system in England was pretty similar to ours in the U.S., but I was confused toward the end over what those English cops decided to do, and it kind of disappointed me.
Otherwise, the ending was OK, but not what I wanted to see.
It tied together nicely, but a more believable ending would have gotten 5 stars from me.
