https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48624.Cosmic_Trigger
Zany, unique, and wittily written, Wilson weaves a web of seemingly random connections between information as he playfully proposes the wildest conspiracy theories. Even as he runs away with your imagination and succeeds in convincing you, at the same time he mocks himself and reveals his own cynicism towards his assertions.
I used to refer to Robert Anton Wilson as a "crackprophet"-- his writings are totally off the wall and indiscriminate, embracing both silly ideas and deeply profound ones, trying to unify scientific, historical, metaphysical, and, well, downright psychotic concepts.
What this book challenged me to do, way back when, was to approach things with as open a mind and as little "contempt prior to investigation" as I could muster.
Wilson's books are a good test-- as he himself often stated-- of just how willing the reader is to explore and be challenged.
But God bless him for being nuts as well as so deeply full of humanity.
While there's a lot of interesting possibilities suggested, by way of deliberate speculation on synchronicity and technological advances, there's also a LOT of really wacky unfounded psuedo-science and wishful thinking.
It has been suggested to me that this book was kind of a way for RAW to work through his grief at the time, and, in that sense, I find that it pulls me along with him.
It's nice to know that he was able to work through his feelings this way, but I actually think the power of the book comes more from his willingness to lay bare his own pain so openly than from his attempt to write a meaning on to that pain.
Wilson makes a point to note at the beginning, "Belief is the death of intelligence." Carry that thought with you as you read, the menagerie of strange ideas he puts forward throughout are meant to strip away our preconceived notions of what is acceptable opinion - but that does not mean that he endorses or fully believes any hypothesis.
The meat of this book, and what makes it staggering and appealing, is the idea that science and mysticism both confirm that reality is entirely subjective.
While science and skepticism are the most adequate tools we have for understanding the world, they are still only a byproduct of consciousness.
With a title like Final Secrets of the Illuminati, I was expecting a fictional story akin to Illuminatus!: while I wasn't disappointed, the book is instead a chronology of Robert Anton Wilson's spiritual and philosophical journey over the course of his life.Reading Wilson is almost like taking a drug: if you let it, his writing puts you almost in another consciousness.
Don't read this book expecting to agree with everything, or most, or possibly anything Wilson says.
I don't think he would have wanted everyone to agree with him; thinking about what he wrote, and forming your own assumptions, seems a more likely goal.
On the surface, a book about drugs and magic and contact with aliens. On a deeper level, a book about philosophical agnosticism and the practice of deliberate mental metaprogramming. Entertaining and illuminating on either level.
I liked this a great deal better than The Illuminatus! Trilogy and Schrödinger's Cat Trilogy, but not as much as Quantum Psychology: How Brain Software Programs You & Your World. Both Leary and R.A.W come across as really good people (although Leary's lust sometimes seems questionable) in this book. I might buy this book as it is an easier read than Quantum Psychology: How Brain Software Programs You & Your World and perhaps contains more hidden knowledge. I also might just buy Quantum Psychology: How Brain Software Programs You & Your World

Quite a naive story about the 60s simulacra with a great deal of hero worshiping of Temple's Sirius Mystery, published a short time before. The most real thing about the book is the incredibly sad retelling of the death of Wilson's daughter near to the end.
One of my all-time favorite books...reading it is like being on psychedelics. Try it and let me know.
RAW always manages to attract interesting and intriguing people into his life (Tim Leary is a prominent figure in the book, and although he doesn't appear in person, so is Aleister Crowley) mostly through his own wide reading and scientific querying.
And so we encounter a number of scientists and other figures working on such projects as SMI2LE - Tim Leary's term for Space Migration, Intelligence Increase, and Life Extension - and unexplained phenomena.
RAW's life was never easy, and he pursued much that wouldn't make it so, but he did it all to bring positivity and love to a world much in need of it.
Back when I was in deep study of the freemasons I was contacted by a mysterious individual who said that he had many secrets to tell, but I could not talk to him again until I read this book.
Year when by and my friend and business partner at the time Jarmo gave me a present.
We took the present he gave me, the techno virus and soaked it kerosene for 8 hours.
After I finished it I emailed the mysterious figure who years earlier told me to read the book...his email had been disconnected.
The book still smells of hell.
http://www.examiner.com/examiner/x-83...

(which I suspect is far more fact-based than it appears, based on the parallel tale of its creation told within this book), and this is where my acquaintance with RAW began.
Yes, he was one of a group of people leading the way to mind expansion (Leary the one people always think of because he was more of a celebrity, but he also became a sell-out and somewhat of a caricature), but Wilson was the one who best communicated it--not just as an intellectual giant, but because he didn't take himself too seriously.
This book pretty much details what was going on behind the scenes of the era when Leary told us all to "Turn on, tune in, drop out," and popular culture was trying to figure out what he meant.
One of the first books by R.A.W. I read years ago and one of the main drivers behind my perpetual and never ending fight to change my reality tunnel (succeeding and failing in the process many times) to properly accomodate myself in the crazy and inhumane contemporary world ruled by the Totality of the Spectacle and mediated experience, where people hungrily consume artificial products and maintain a prothesis of relations via Facebook and other social media.
The world in which buying a new iPhone, iPad or other iCrap has become the absolute peak experience for millions of people.
Robert Anton Wilson is the quintessential agnostic, highlighting on page one in all-caps "I DO NOT BELIEVE ANYTHING" before he seemingly gives you reason to believe in synchronicity, the 23 enigma, yoga, the occult, the miracle at Lourdes and Guadalupe, tantric sex, psychedelic drugs, a worldwide global conspiracy, UFOs, quantum physics, and a lot of information about the connection of Egyptology to the "Dog Star" Sirius.
More of a guide to seeing the world through different eyes than we're "programmed" with.And I finished it during the dog days, the time Sirius is closest to earth.
Awesome, amazing, a must read, and a perfect follow-up for Illuminatus! Only that this book is a non-fiction analysis of the same weird things, for clear headed hard-hat science-type thinkers. I'm still not sure if I can believe everything it says, although he makes sure to emphasize again and again that he'd been just as skeptical about all the incredible stuff he's confronting the reader with.
The Cosmic Trigger series is my favorite RAW material. One of those books I turn to when my faith wavers, it reminds me of the greatness of a world self-created.
That you can apply all this flaky shit and forgive the guy who beats your teenage daughter to death in a robbery.
Mind blowing stuff. Tons of crazy anecdotes. I will certainly read part 2
Chronicling Wilson's attempts at undergoing a "self-induced brain change," the first volume of the Cosmic Trigger trilogy offers a funny and thought provoking trip through Wilson's attempts to understand his experience of alien contact from the star Sirius.
Or was it alien contact?
Wilson attempts at explaining the experience from a variety of different angles that touch both the occult (yoga; Crowlean magick) and the pseudo-scientific (ESP), without firmly holding to any one explanatory framework or model.
Feel like I should have read this after I read “Illuminatus!” I loved that book but I can hardly remember any of it’s details.
I remember it being fun and that I had to look up a lot of the references.
Those references lead to other books and soon I was spiraling in a conspiracy/new-age rabbit hole.
Basically, citing not so much proofs but alternatives to conventional thought like Tim Leary, Gurdjieff and space aliens, Wilson seems to say that we create our own realities and can therefore change shit on a whim.
It’s hard to sum up and more fun to just let wash over you.
I expected Cosmic Trigger Volume 1: Final Secrets of the Illuminati to expand my mind.
In the introduction by John Higgs, he states that all great books are both, "utterly of their time," and that, "they transcend their time." While Cosmic Trigger certainly meets the first criterion, I'm not sure that I agree with Higgs that it meets the second.
What that means is that when something bad happens to you (you receive negative energy), you don't have to do something bad to someone else.
You have the power to be positive, to destroy the negative energy, and instead to pass on positive energy.
This is the kind of book you aren’t expecting to read.
For this is the a book about someone not refusing the existence of weird phenomena, but embracing the kaleidoscope of possible explanations and the many people behind such quests.
If you are already familiar with occult topics and weird phenomena, I imagine that this book does not add much to what you already know or believe.
But if you, like me, happen to fall on this by accident and find yourself enjoying RAW’s style and wittiness, this book may hold a pleasant surprise for you.
Our brain constructs the world as we experience it, we always live in a certain kind of reality tunnel, and this book actively challenges us to stop taking things for granted, to not just exchange one reality tunnel for another, but to actively explore different realities without taking any to be ultimately true.
Sure, things get strange at times, and Wilson seems to take some very unlikely ideas as likely to be true.
And that is where the true power of this book lies for me, in showing from a very different perspective how stepping away from our fixed views of self and from reality, opens up a path to kindness and joy, while increasing the tremendous power of humor and mystery.

The RAW And The Cooked (well fried!)robert anton wilson frazzled his brain so you don't have to!
but, although raw's predictions are short (by mibbe a century), that takes away none of my appreciation for this book and the processes and explanations put forward for our information.
his research was thorough, his conclusions startling, not his fault science didn't take the trajectory he predicted!
as well as all that, this is a vastly entertaining read laced with as much humour as there are conspiratorial matters, although i did have to use all eight circuits of my brain to get my head around some of the concepts tackled, which, it has to be said, are beautifully explained!i've only been a RAW recruit for little over a year, but am enlisting for the long haul!
If you enter Cosmic Trigger remembering that Wilson states (many times!) he does not fully believe in anything, even some of the stories he tells, then you will have a much better experience with this book. I loved being taken on a journey through Wilson's mind, and even though some of his predictions were a bit ambitious, I'd prefer that to a lack of imagination. His views on consciousness and attainable levels were also extremely interesting.
Either we are forced to admit that the visions of "crazy" people such as mystics, occultists, drug users, paranoid freaks, cultists, and conspiracy theorists are not just random noise and are, to a certain extent, converging towards some vast, hard-to-describe thing, OR that the human tendency towards confirmation bias and the creation of patterns is powerful enough to create vast amounts of evidence towards such a phenomenon where none exists, and in that case, what does it say about the standard narratives we use to describe our reality?
