https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59818.The_MacKade_Brothers
The MacKade Brothers: Rafe and Jared is no exception.This book, as you probably guessed from the title, is sort of like 2 books in one.
But they love each other more than anything and that bond is showcased throughout these 2 novels/4 stories.Rafe is the angry one.
He's come back to Antietam, after blowing town years ago, to make his mark on the town he calls home.
It must have been one of my first Nora Roberts books.
Men finding love on a construction site, spousal abuse, escaping spousal abuse, haunted houses that are being turned into Bed and Breakfasts.
The Pride of Jared MacKade (3 stars) It took me more time to get into this story.
The love story between Jared and Savannah took me longer to fall for and I felt their 'I love you' too soon considering that both of them, especially Savannah, had trust issues.I thought of giving it less stars but the appearance of the other MacKades and getting to know what was going on in Rafe and Regan's relationship were a win for me.
I've missed reading romance books and Nora Roberts' MacKades were the perfect way of going back to the genre.
Il libro racconta la storia dei fratelli superfighi di una cittadina nel Maryland, i MacKade: Rage, Jared, Devin e Shane.
In questo primo volume leggiamo la storia di due fratelli Rage il più piccolo e Jared i più grande.
Anche se il libro è diviso in due storie, incentrate su ogni singolo fratello, in realtà si intrecciano e ci lasciano intravedere futuri risvolti e soprattutto hanno continuità il che mi piace.
Peccato le poche pagine per ogni fratello (140 circa) perchè avrei approfondito di più alcune cose.
Overall rating - 4 StarsThere are two books in this series, each containing 2 stories about the MacKade brothers.
Jared & Savannah's story...5 StarsSince the backdrop/plot was distinguished in the first story this one flowed a whole lot smoother.
Jared and Savannah's chemistry smacks you in the face and you find yourself just hoping the next page is where they both quit fighting the inevitable.
Robert's (as always) does a superb job at bringing these new friends to life, and by the end you're oh so glad you still have two more stories to read of the MacKades.
It was interesting to see their professions bringing them together (he renovates and restores old homes and she decorates them) and showing all they had in common.There was a serious note with the introduction of Cassie who had suffered domestic violence and who finally took her life into her hands.This one merits 4 starsThe Pride of Jared MacKadeThe oldest brother who is now a successful lawyer and after a divorce returns to live at the farm.
I loved Regan's antique shop and how the fact that Rafe and her were renovating the Barlow house together, made their relationship that more solid.
I love that Jared was married before, with a cold hearted woman, and it just shows you that sometimes what you think you should be wanting, isn't true at all.
I loved that their first time was in the woods because just like the house was Rafe and Regan's, the woods and the emotions and peace in the woods is Jared and Savannah's.
I love how Jared included Bryan in proposing to Savannah.
I've been reading this quartet for years.
Oftentimes, the brother characters in books are my favorite characters.
Of the four women, Regan was one I liked more immediately, and the appreciation has only grown with each read.Jared, I have to admit, on the other hand is probably #4 on my ranking scale.
However what I do like is getting continued glimpses of the others throughout each book.
The other thing I like about this series is that the plot elements are continually present throughout the series.
The continuity in this series is fantastic.Overall, I'll say again, this is one of my favorite book series.
This is Book #1 of the Mackade brothers. Book #2 is with Devin and Shane. There are two short stories in this slightly oversized book by Nora Roberts. I didn't care for the characters in Rafe's story, but Jared and Morningstar's story was neat. She reminded me of Cher.
Four brothers, Rafe, Jared, Devin and Shane have the reputation of being bad boys, but they sincerely care for each other and family is # 1 to them. Interesting characters
I love getting lost in Nora Roberts novels. Swoon. :)
I just love it is too good ...
I enjoy almost all work by Nora Roberts and this one was great! I love Rafe and Reagan, she put him in his place without fear! And Rafe just melted my heart in the end! The ending was satisfying, they both realised that love also included compromise and adjustment and acceptance too. Special mention to the fantastically funny one-liners and conversations between Rafe and his three brothers, more than once I laughed aloud!
Two books about the older MacKade brothers they share a family tightness and edgy loyalty. they also share deadly good looks. Rafe has been gone since his parents died looking for a way to prove himself He meets the lovely fragile antique dealer and Sparks fly. but Regan holds up her own independence and they find a compromise in their work.The second story is the lawyer and the wayward neighbor. both are fiercely independent. till the let her son see how important family can be.
The MacKade brothers are you basic country brothers (the boys you mama warned you about). They are fun loving and and would do anything for each other! It is a pure joy to read the stories of how Rafe and Jared lose their hearts to the women that are completely opposite of what they ever dreamed of,
A thoroughly enjoyable romance duo. Rakish brothers and beautiful talented women. Tempers flare and romance sizzles! Mix in some Civil War ghosts and some kids, what can you lose?
.
Excellent
One of my favorite family series. love all the 4 brothers.
Two good romances with "bad boys" and some supernatural interest that makes it more fun.
Great read. I don't usually go for this type of book but I really enjoyed it. Would like to read more on the McKade brothers.
I read these years ago and I'm just revisiting. I love these stories! Their sweet and funny and easy.
It's a sweet romance.
I have no doubt that Cassie and Devin will be a couple, and I just need to get my hands on the next combination book from either my mother or sister to find out.Rafe and Jared: The Mackade Brothers is a great summer read, not too deep, not too involved, but with engaging characters and enough plot so that you don't find yourself bored with the formula.This review originally published at Epinions: http://www.epinions.com/review/Book_R...
But I also loved the tie-in with the Civil War, and how both Rafe and Jared were affected by the 2 17-year old soldiers on opposite sides of the war who met and fatally wounded one another on that fateful day.I loved the haunting/ghost aspect to the stories - how restless the MacKade brothers were and how restless those 2 poor soldiers were...
each only trying to be a man; each only trying to go home - to return to their loved ones and the good things in life.I enjoyed Rafe's and Reagan's story a bit more than Jared's and Savannah's.
While trying to fix up the old Barlow place together they find themselves very attracted to one another.This was a short and quick read, but it was so well-written.
This was such a quick and fun read and I am left seriously impressed with Roberts.The second book is The Pride of Jared MacKade.
She moves into the cabin on the other side of the MacKade farm, and Jared just can't stay away.After reading Rafe, this story kinda annoyed me a bit.
The characters were still really well-written and fun.
However, he returns and buys the run-down home where a young soldier from the Civil War was shot and killed.
The old Barlow house was never the same after that, haunted by the mistress of the house who never spoke to the husband again after killing the young soldier.
Much sadness lives in that house and often times one can hear the weeping of the young Mrs. Barlow.
The farm is near the woods where the Civil War had left many memories of the young soldiers, only boys who had died there.
Bello comunque il rapporto tra i fratelli, inquietante la casa stregata in cui Rafe si muove perfettamente a suo agio e commovente la ribellione di Cassie, la migliore amica di Regan, che dopo anni di violenze finalmente trova il coraggio di lasciare il marito...ammetto che la storia tra lei e Devin, il fratello sceriffo, è quella che aspetto con più ansia!
Sempre più presenti gli altri fratelli, il neosposo Rafe (e devo dire che da a volte con Regan sembravano tipo madre figlio lei posata e lui irruente come sempre XD) lo sceriffo Devin che si sta lentamente avvicinando a Cassie e lo scanzonato Shane che con le sue battute dispensa allegria in ogni scena in cui appare XD
Appealing as ever, no even lovely Regan Jones, the town's reserved antiques dealer, was immune to Rafe MacKade.
And, even the ghosts of Barlow House seem to approve--as well as Rafe's brothers.2) In THE PRIDE OF JARED MacKADE we visit the life of equally handsome and available though not too interested in finding his woman.
As Jared says, "She's stronger than steel" and has an unshakeable dedication to her son, Bryan.
Jared has never backed down from a fight and won't start now!
That only helped to encourage their relationship and the "taming of Jared MacKade".
In the rehab of the house, he hires local antique store owner, Regan to design and furnish the many rooms.Needless to say, their working relationship turns into something more.The second book, The Pride of Jared MacKade is the story of Jared, the oldest of the MacKade boys.
She and her nine year old son soon win the heart of Jared.The MacKades are a joy to read.
I love Rafe and Regan because their story is fun and has the chills of ghosts and haunts.
I love Jared's story because of the complex relationship between Jared and single mother and son.
The first story in this novella was about the bad boy Rafe Mackade and Regan Jones.
They get attracted to each other to the point that they tare each others cloths off and get into bed.
So they get over them quickly because he pops the question.The second story in this novella is about another bad boy Jared Mackade and Savanna Morningstar.
Jared and Savanna are like Rafe and Regan they fight each other until they have to face danger.
So they give up the pretenses and just get married like Rafe and Regan.
