https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/217984.Garden_Ashes
Garden, Ashes always inhabits the perspective of Andi Scham, but is also a portrait of his eccentric, messianic, disturbed father Eduard Scham (really the most unforgettable character I’ve encountered in literature in a long time), also of his sister and his mother, relatives and coevals caught in the flood of events that subsumed the Jewish population of Eastern Europe in the middle of the last century.
There are spoilers endemic to what follows. How would a child have dealt with the horror of something as regimentally and encompassingly evil as the Holocaust? We are all armed, to some degree, with an imagination that can help us deflect, ignore, transform, subsume select trials and tribulations within immiserating life; but the Shoah is an atrocity at an entirely overwhelming level—so that Andreas Scham, the child's narrative voice relating the events of Garden, Ashes, manages to not only enf
Indeed, when Andi is set in competition with, and eventual victory over, his classmate Julia, there are hints of a pagan queen having been challenged by the first strains of a stormy, power-wielding patriarchal energy bruiting forth from the harshness of the desert; the intimations of the arrival of sin, of fear, of retribution for having fallen from this verdantly veiled state of grace, most of all in the wrinkled awareness with which Andi is struck that even his beloved mother will die.Enter the father: Eduard Scham, the Wandering Jew, a gifted man harrowed, tormented, even defeated beneath his pride, bowler wearing and deftly wielding an iron-tipped cane, engorged with philosophies and wracked with prophecies, seeking knowledge and solitude with the same thirst he evinces for drink, restless in spirit and body, consuming everything inside as he compiles the variegated lore textually ensconced within the pages of his seminal work, the Bus, Ship, Rail, and Air Travel Guide, save for the musical words his loquaciousness inspires in his son.
Otherwise the war remains firmly on the periphery in this childhood recollection of the 1940s.Lurking in the background are the sceptres of hunger and Singer machines being carted off to concentration camps, but always centre stage is the redemptive salvation of the flight of imagination: the creation of a spiritual and alternate reality of biblical battles, esoteric philosophies and the occasional ‘grope’ with Julia, which actually pissed me off a treat because Kis manages to get that prize by basically demoralising and humiliating her into submission through superior mental prowess.
Here’s what lingers for me: 1) The hope that Gaddis was right that a work of art redeems time.
2) Kis’ prose-walk so thoroughly in the mind of a child’s limited conception of enduring still never allows you to forget the adult reflecting through the animation of detail.
Maybe writing a more limited mimesis of the experience of the holocaust from the eyes of a child might seem more realistic.
The constant awareness of oblique looking is a way not to damage the eyes and yet maintain the glaze of panoptic attention that such an abyss calls for.—
I want to keep on reading it until I learn its terrible power of thrilling happiness edged with the ache you can already feel behind it to head it off too early, waking up too early.
Andi and his father have costumes and walking one foot before the other in a double dream world.
Andi could freeze frame a moment between the acts to get a glimpse of the real father.
Geoff says he tells everyone he knows to read Garden, Ashes and they don't take him up on it.
Read Garden, Ashes.
Ovo nije knjiga koju sam čitala pre 5 godina.Ovo toliko nije ona knjiga da, evo, sedim na ivici suza, skoro da ih dodirujem stopalima, i pitam se ko sam bila kad sam je čitala prvi put.
My first experience with Kiš was A Tomb for Boris Davidovich, a collection of seven stories that was very good. Garden, Ashes, a novel, centers on the childhood of Andi Scham during WWII and explores in particular his relationship with his eccentric father. It was at least as good as Tomb—if not better. I have a copy of The Encyclopedia of the Dead, which will be my next Kiš.
I've read it at least four times, once aloud while the passenger in a car from NYC to Iowa. Easily the finest semi-erotic epileptic fit ever. Like Bruno Schulz more than anyone else (nothing like Marquez, per a review on here), but maybe a bit better than Schulz since it's written well after WWII but is set before it. Not to hype it too much but maybe it should be required reading for all human beings who read for everything other than plot, like lists that go on for six or seven pages . . .

Iako se čitanje ove knjige igrom životnih situacija odužilo na veoma dug period, nikako nisam mogao da se oslobodim utiska detinje spokojnosti svaki put kada bih je uzeo u ruke. Vrlo često želeo sam da se zatvorim između korica ove savršene priče. Bašta pepo je defitivno crno-beli film, sa hrapavim naratorskim glasom, onakvim kakav je i sam Kiš imao. Pregršt bolnih, jasnih, čudnih i maštovitih sećanja, koja kao da su napisana iz jednog daha, rukom jednog jednog dvadesetogodišnjaga u čijim grudima i dalje kuca srce deteta.Definitivno najemotivnija i najlakša Kišova knjiga.
Since childhood, I was afflicted with a sick hypersensitivity, and my imagination quickly turned everything into a memory, too quickly: sometimes one day was enough, or an interval of a few hours, or a routine change of place, for an everyday event with a lyrical value that I did not sense at the time, to become suddenly adorned with a radiant echo, the echo ordinarily reserved only for those memories which have been standing for many years in the powerful fixative of lyrical oblivion. I'm goin
The early chapters were exquisite, but somewhere in the middle I began to lose the thread, what was trying to be said, although I'm pretty certain this disorientation was intentional ((view spoiler)["Ever since my father vanished from the story, from the novel everything has come loose, fallen apart.
(hide spoiler)]) and I will need to re-read these parts to making any sense of them.
I found it easier to follow the moments later in the book where the narrator returned to observations and ideas from earlier in the novel, everything else failed to speak to me.
Sentences often begin in a tersely descriptive mode, focused on one or more objects that are rendered in sharply physical terms - a Singer sewing machine, for example, is described so lovingly that the reader feels as if they're running their fingers over every tiny part - only to have the sentence continue unspooling, past the physical and into metaphorical or even metaphysical terrain; this technique broadens the family story at the heart of the novel, allowing it to connect with a larger spiritual/historical tradition (mysticism, the end of Pan-Europeanism and the "shadow" of the oncoming Holocaust) without sacrificing any of its (sometimes cruel) specificity.
The best way I could describe this novel, told from the point of view of little Andi Scham, would be to compare to another tale of well-meaning if insipd quixotic fathers, National Lampoon's Vacation.
Eduard Scham, the erratic father, or Clark, on a voyage to his personal hell/Wally World, namely, the concentration camp where he would die.
The novel covers this journey, much like the film does, with eerie and disturbing hints of the father's descent into madness, his hatred of dogs, and the family's clutching panic in the face of the patriarch's obsession.

Then, when you begin thinking that this novel would go on forever like this, as if foretelling an observation the reader inevitably would eventually make, a chapter starts with this sentence:"Quite unexpectedly and unpredictably, this account is becoming increasingly the story of my father, the story of the gifted Eduard Scham."What follows this sentence deserves to be quoted verbatim, the possibility of carpal tunnel notwithstanding, for it makes intelligible, by actual sampling, what I'll try to say in this review: that this novel is great, not so much because of its story, but because of the unique way language is used to tell it--"...His absence, his somnambulism, his messianism, all these concepts removed from any earthy--or, if you will, narrative--context, this subject is frail as dreams and notable above all for his primordial negative traits: his story becomes densely woven, heavy fabric, a material of entirely unknown specific weigth.
Наситен с образи и миризми разказ за детството, за раздялата с бащата – почти несъзателна, почти несъстоятелна: Съзнаваше пределно ясно окончателността на заминаването си, както и факта, че го посещаваме като далечен познат, комуто сме простили всичко и следователно идваме да го посетим, както се идва на гроб, веднъж годишно, на Вси светии.За доизмислянето на родителя, който си тръгва, за доизмисляне на живота, който трябва да се превърне в спомен (Защото аз още от дете страдах от някаква свръхчувствителност и мечтата ми превръщаше всичко в спомен (...)), в картичка на хладилника, в нещо отдавна забравено, от което следва само мълчание: (...) мълчанието, там, откъдето започва всичко.За разбирането, катарзиса и в крайна сметка, за прошката:Знам, знам, че не можеш да ми простиш егоизма, моята непримиримост към света.
The young, hyper-sensitive Proustian narrator lives only in his muddled over-literary thoughts and dreams.
Unfortunately, his essential weirdness is too strange and not at all likable.The only real action in the book, which is otherwise surreal, happens in one chapter when the narrator experiences a brief moment of normal human biological behavior with his school friend Julia, but that's soon squashed by disapproving relatives and of course, Religion.
An entire chapter is devoted to aligning the story of Genesis to the sins of his own teenage life.

Intriguing book.
The central character is the strange Eduard Sam, genius-bombastic-embittered-depressive "wandering Jew", seen through the eyes of his hypersensitive son Andi.
The story is divided into 12 pieces, with shifting perspectives and the styles.
Kis begins with a delicious piece of proustian prose, including meandering sentences.
But later his language becomes more poetic, dream like, reminding me of Bruno Schulz.
But then my attention dropped a bit: Kis (like Schulz, by the way) loses focus and becomes a little bit too exuberant for my taste.
In retrospect, it is perhaps more a kind of Bildungsroman, about the genesis of a young author (thus autobiographical)?
Many readers love this book, and it's worth knowing that I'm generally bored by holocaust art, and even worse, that I roll my eyes at the very idea.
But the first-novel feeling reaches its height after the first hundred pages, when Kis decides, for no particularly good reason (I know, I know, it's because of the holocaust) to make the father the focus of the book, and then the father disappears.
I would put the decline even earlier: after the first "father" chapter, the book probably could have ended, but for the return to the narrator's fear of death in the final chapter.
Tandem read w/ my own Mrs. What ensued were plumes of discussion concerning the idea of Jewish lit within Balkan letters. I enjoyed the discussion as much as I did this haunted novel.
Vaguely reminiscent of Bruno Schulz, it is a highly evocative book, where the magic of children's eyes is fully restored.
If I were you, I’d be weary of this particular novel for it took great courage for a person like I, to complete. In a nutshell, some books are just oh so dangerous in one’s hands for the experience can be sinful indeed. A pausing for breath at almost every few intervals was mandatory..
Upravo to nam je Kiš predstavio ovde, ono magično prepoznavanje sitnica koje su u tom dobu nama značajne, svakako se treba staviti u poziciju deteta, što verujem da je Kiš i uradio...
ali s obzirom da je semi-autobiografska nije mu bilo teško da uz to ubaci i elemente svoje prošlosti, naše drage dame, Nostalgije.Knjiga nema specifičan plot, što je još jedna od dobrih stvari koje ja smatram za originalnim.
** 1/2This novel was meant to describe, as a sort of autobiographical memoir, the escape from the Nazis of a Serb Jewish family.
While there are beautiful poetical moments, the whole remains hard to read and to remain engaged; it also contains some confusing aspects.
For example, while this is a Jewish family, the narrator kept making references to his attending the church (never was there a reference to a synagogue): was that meant to imply that church attendance would lead the authorities to believe that they were Christians and not Jews?

There's literature, Literature, LITERATURE - and then there's ***LITERATURE***.Danilo Kiš' 'Garden, Ashes' no doubt belongs to the latter group.
There is a direct line from the great works of Bruno Schulz to 'Garden, Ashes', in more than one way.I discovered Mr Kiš, because this novel was mentioned in an essay about Schulz and his writings - and I was in no way disappointed.This is not your usual 'bring along on the holiday and read while on the beach' book -- while I'm not saying that that can't be done.
That's the way it has to be.
A lyrical and detailed collection of memories,dreams, and fantasies from the point of view of a young boy growing up in Yugoslavia during WWII and whose Father is eccentric and sometimes bizarre. Kis's writing is seriously beautiful and this is a simple example: "The chestnut trees in front of the house, long since deprived of their fruits, were shedding in their lazy way. The leaves, yellow and smelling like tobacco, had started to fall indecisively from the branches" (8).
Kis, Kis, Kis always and all the time! I believe this was one of the first works he published. He's discovering who he is as an author and growing into his style, so the metaphors get a bit tedious and overly expansive sometimes. Nonetheless, it's a good read. It's a semi-autobiographical story about his childhood. He describes his own experience of the Holocaust in the most impartial way possible. I simply adore this man as a writer.
I can be a trifle naive at times: if a book is called a novel, I tend to treat it as one, rather than the series of vignettes that ‘Garden, Ashes’ instead comprised of.
I also did this with Dubliners: thinking the chapters were more driven by plot rather than being instead linked by a mood or more abstract notion.
The holocaust itself (the backdrop of the novel and the reason for the father’s ‘disappearance’) is also never directly spoken of, yet permeates each chapter through the way events and objects are described or play out.
Instead it was alluded to, suggestive and peripheral.Unfortunately I didn’t have the wherewithal to access the merits of ‘Garden, Ashes’.
