https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/694942.The_Moon_of_Gomrath
What a weird and impressive little book.This one was leaps and bounds better than The Weirdstone of Brisingamen (my review here), which was not by any means devoid of skill or interest, but compares relatively poorly to its sequel.
- the truly impressive thing in this story is Garner's absolute mastery of the action scenes.
As an adult it was only mildly less so, but I lack the ability, now, to retreat to my bedroom and devour a book whole until Mum calls that dinner is ready.
Which is what this book truly needs.
This is a book to read only if you thought it was a favourite as a child. The vivid images it conjures from landscapes and celtic references is excellent, a real fire for the mind if you are young. The downside: old and jaded maturity will grumble about the writing, how rushed it is to the end and it's for kids.Well a pox on us all for these thoughts. Grow down, not up dammit and enjoy.
apart from the parts where they were running about underground lost, which seemed mightily boring.Anyhow, being as the second and third books in the series were on offer at the local library, and the sun had bounced back into the sky, I put in my requests for the books and waited....and waited....and waited....and then asked the nice lady at the library what the hold up was."Oh, I know who's got this one" she says "it's one of the other librarians; but she's in Wales at the moment!"So I waited....and do you know: Librarians don't pay fines on overdue books!
A million years ago!
Can I just say "Er, huh?" So much is crammed into this book that it's very nearly incoherent -- as if Garner had a million ideas and was afraid he'd never have another chance to use them.
The book would have to have been twice as long to have any hope of pulling all of this together in a coherent form, and even then I'm not sure it would have been possible.
It's not a bad book, just not nearly the book it could have been with a little discipline applied to it.There's a third one out, Boneland.
The descriptions of Susan riding with them, and the way she gets left behind and feels both joy and anguish, are lovely.Again, I felt a lack of resolution at the end of this book.
It's not that they stop with big plot things left to happen, but they stop without making it feel satisfying.It also feels like there should be more books in the series -- you have all these comparatively little events, dealing with Grimnir and the Brollachan and the Morrigan, but throughout there's the threat of Nastrond hovering over it, and the idea of the waking of the sleepers, but nothing happens with them.
Nowhere near as good as The Weirdstone of Brisingamen and filled with fantasy tropes like fighting dwarves, aloof elves, and evil creatures like goblins, wild-cats and a shapeshifter.
The story started out in a promising and creepy way, with a devilish creature called the Brollachan being released from its pit by men doing excavation work.
Even Colin and Susan, child heroes of the first book, were no more than vehicles for the story here.
I'll be curious to read the third book, Boneland which was written 49 years later.
I remember I adored this as a kid.... it really got under my skin. I must have been about nine years old and after reading this I convinced myself the wild hunt was coming for me on the first of May.... and I nailed an iron horseshoe over my bed so they wouldn't get me. A good book that seriously spooked the daylights out of me... and made me get into old English myths and legends.
If The Weirdstone (Garner's first novel) leans a little 3-, this leans 3.5 or maybe a little more.
That is, Alderley is an actual place, it has an ancient legend of a wizard stopping a farmer from Mobberley (seriously, where do the English get these names), buying his horse, showing him the sleeping riders, etc.
Garner grew up on the Edge, and so I can see him having played with his friends or maybe alone, making up some of these stories.
That makes these books feel better to me.
Perhaps the sleeping knights were a separate story from King Arthur, originally.
Perhaps Garner is more widely read in Britain.
It wasn't either of our faults, book. Really. It just didn't work out. Maybe it was the age difference, maybe our different cultures. But I'm sure you will meet lots of wonderful readers soon, and have long and happy relationships with them.
Taken on it's own merits, however, it is a very strong book.Colin and Susan - the protagonists from "Weirdstone" - are drawn back into the otherworld and the ancient struggle between good and evil when they accidentally rouse the Old Magic, and thus the Wild Hunt, from its slumber.
In "Weirdstone" the coincidences felt like the hand of fate guiding things - in "Moon" it's less so - though by the end you wonder, because it does all wrap up well.
(Rather shockingly for a trilogy whose third volume has just been published, it was less than half a decade between the publication of The Last Battle and that of The Weirdstone of Brisingamen.) That said, The Moon of Gomrath's evocation of a matriarchal Wild Magic pre-dating the masculine wizardly magic of Cadellin and co prefigures multiple examples of children's fiction, from the weird hierarchy of High, Dark, Light and Wild Magics in Susan Cooper's The Dark Is Rising sequence to Terry Pratchett's treatment of witchcraft in the Tiffany Aching books.
For me there's nothing quite so memorably upsetting as the underground sequences in Weirdstone, but the developing both of Garner's cosmology and of the individual characters of the children (especially Susan, emerging triumphantly from her brother's shadow here) make this the better, more sophisticated book.
Сначала я решительно не любила эту книгу, потому что она провисала по сравнению с первой очень ощутимо, а в формате детской книжки это провисание, нескладный путающийся сюжет и все остальное - почти как смертоубийство, потому что объем не позволяет автору выбраться.
Просто Гарнер, как я уже писала ранее, обладает тем чудесным даром, который позволяет оживлять текст и превращать его из звуко-буквенного набора в живое существо.
В целях познания прочла роскошный обзор на Guardian новой книги Алана Гарнера (непременно прочту) и статью в википедии, где автор говорит о том, что люди после 20 видят в его сюжетах заумь и накреченность; я хотела было написать вам про женские образы, про феминность, классические сюжеты и прочее, но кого это волнует?
More than that, though, it was the idea of wild magic, magic that exists purely for its own sake, savage and emotional and dangerous, set against the more ordered, courtly magic of Cadellin, which anticipates a lot of modern fantasy magic with rules and systems, but of course, it is the wild magic that breaks Susan's heart at the end, and leaves the reader haunted too.Gomrath is a wilder, more formless book as opposed to the rather tidy chase narrative of Weirdstone.
The magic comes out of the very landscape, and the danger from the shadowy Brollachain and the shape-changing Morrigan while Colin and Susan's relationship with their allies is more uneasy, and strained to the point of bitterness with the lios-alfar.
I re-read this in preparation for Boneland!
This second book is perhaps the more writerly, edgy (no pun intended) and sophisticated book, but I have to say the first book still stands out for its unbelievably gripping underground scenes and great storytelling.
have read it now :-) It goes further again from traditional storytelling and more towards edgy and sophisticated...
I'm inspired to read more Garner fiction for adults now.By the way, this 1981 paperback has yet another awful cover!
But it does strangely awaken my sympathies for poor Colin (who looks nondescript and put-upon here) and it depicts an intriguingly different kind of Susan - a scruffy little gamine.
No tying up of loose ends, no congratulations that the good side won, just stop as soon as victory was won.
In fact, I didn't even realize at first that I was at the end.
Considering that in the last book, it was explained that nothing could come back easily from the force that defeated the bad guys in that book, it is rather irritating to see the Morrigan back as nasty as ever, apparently never harmed at all by her complete defeat in book 1.
At least Garner could have come up with a new baddie or something!
I remember the first time I read this that I was so terrified by the first appearance of the Brollachan that I hurriedly closed the book and made my dad sleep with it under his pillow so that the thing couldn't get out.
It's one of the books I have an incredibly strong memory of.
I'm slightly surprised by how quickly I read it, though.
And certainly this book, and the prequel, should always be a staple of British bookshelves, because there's no more pleasant way to be introduced to such a swathe of legend than this.
Continuing on from The Weirdstone of Brisingamen: A Tale of Alderley, The Moon of Gomrath sees Susan and Colin continuing to be drawn into the magical issues which entangled them.
They have made an enemy, and victory in one battle has not won any wars.Again the tone of the story is high legend, the magic overwhelming, frightening, inexorable.
A series of frightening events, and the kind of throbbing, highly-cadenced description which is rarely found in more recent stories.A good tale for children who like a thrill of horror, though again without any particular individuality from the two main characters who are "the children" rather than bringing forth any noteable personality.
Once again Alan Garner has written a book,where magic comes alive, I enjoy these books, as Alderly Edge is one of those places, where you can walk, and imagine all kinds of creatures, from Fairy, to witch,, Though they are written for children, don't let that put you off,, they are amazing and he has now written the third, Boneland,, saving that one, for the Summer..
Another book I read years ago and remember enjoying, though it made little impression on me. More good vs. evil Susan possessed, driven to "other realms" ending in a pitched battle. As I said, an enjoyable youth book.
Garner's books are not high adventure but they are very charming and are certainly enjoyable reads.
The Moon of Gomrath : Book Two in Alan Garner's Weirdstone TrilogyWhen I appeared on Hannah Priest's [1] Hannah's Bookshelf earlier this year [2] I selected Alan Garner's "The Weirdstone of Brisingamen" [3] as one of my three "Apocalypse Books": the volumes I would save to be available in the Library at the End of Days.
In fact, the plot twists in The Moon of Gomrath are complicated and involved, there is a good deal of (mild) terror, some blood, some nasties, and best of all there is feral, wild, Old Magic.While Alan Garner, himself, didn't much rate The Weirdstone of Brisingamen, it is to my mind a better told story.
In a note Garner tell us that he re-used existing ones simply because to him 'a made-up name feels wrong'.It's impossible to detail all the plot, the hows and whys of Susan's coma and Colin's later abduction, the nature of the Morrigan's enmity, the differences between the Old Magic, High Magic and Old Evil, what exactly comes about in the final page after the final confrontation.
The Watkins book I remember being all about a sense of place and local traditions, and this is certainly characteristic of The Moon of Gomrath -- especially when Colin has to use the old straight track to retrieve the antidote to Susan's worrying absence from her body.
Even after book 1, the children still go out to play on the Edge alone, at dusk, without leaving themselves time to get home before dark.
Every time Bad Things Happen, and there's much wringing of hands, but the kids aren't ever grounded or given a curfew or anything.
Then there's the wizard, who continues to think that he can help the children choose the best actions by not telling them anything.
Every time we see them, they're coming to the children's rescue.
(hide spoiler)]But my biggest disappointment was that (view spoiler)[the legend of Alderley, given as the opening chapter in both books, just remains a scenic side story.
In my opinion, this is a much better book than Garner's previous "Alderly" book, The Weirdstone of Brisingamen.
It's more coherent, the pacing is better, and the characters are slightly more fleshed out.The first third, in particular, is really strong.
It picks right up where the previous book ended and has some thrilling scenes.
However, I do feel that this tiny series needs more of an ending (in particular, there is clearly a much bigger battle coming in the future), so we'll see...
It's been a while since I read The Weirdstone of Brisingamen so my memory's a bit hazy on the plot of that book.
This one does seem less focused than that book though as it's got a few shifts in plot where it lost me slightly.
I feel like I'd also need to be more familiar with british folklore than I am at the moment to get all of the references but I did enjoy the ones I understood.
In all I feel like The Owl Service and The Weirdstone of Brisingamen are stronger books.
This book has some elements which I enjoyed and found intriguing that I feel could have been developed further.
It is a slight, quick, strand of a novel - I don't know if it was an aspect of 'what happens to Susan' - perhaps it was that, but there's something that I think was there to me as a child that I can't find now.
Again, this is wrought out of legends and heresay and the British landscape, and as ever with Garner, it is thoroughly worth your time and energy and curiosity.
This edition has something of a "further reading list" of myths and legends that inspired the author, and I shall be working my way through all of those just as soon as possible.
I enjoyed this more than my children, sadly. I am not sure if my enjoyment came just from nostalgia, from reading it when I was a child.It was nice to see a female protagonist in a book of that era who actually did stuff, rather than sitting around playing house whilst the boys (or the boys plus the tomboy who dressed like a boy) went out and had adventures.Some of the names were a mouthful for me reading the book aloud, perhaps this would put off the current generation of child readers.
5 stars for the quality of the writing, especially in the thrilling last 10% of the book, BUT 2 stars for not being bothered to finish the trilogy! But, again, now we finally have Boneland to read; so, for my granddaughter, and for me, because I’m being thrilled all over again, and perhaps even more so, because I am reading it aloud; it will seem relatively seamless. I can hardly wait, but we have to read two other books first!
As brilliant as "Weirdstone", this sequel expounds on the events detailed in the first novel. The events are terrifying, exhilirating and sometimes almost heart-stopping.The author has produced a series of masterpieces in these two novels. I suspect that both will be regarded as literary classics in the very near future.
