https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135048.The_Life_and_Loves_of_a_She_Devil
"Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned", said William Congreve and that was the starting point for this story of envy, jealousy and revenge brought to life.The film, with Meryl Streep, was predictably good, but Streep has a particular style to her acting, it's very good, but it's acting and the woman in the book is far more passionate and emotion-driven than Streep's always-intellectual approach.Fay Weldon is a feminist but doesn't let her political beliefs get in the way of her understanding of women.
It spills with rage and passion and hatred and the desire to destroy and triumph and is the ultimate, "they're going to get what's coming to them" book.
My favourite extreme-feminist novel. Being male and reading this was somewhat uncomfortable at first, but after a chapter or so I decided that for the duration of the book I was really a woman - then I could settle down and enjoy it. It's very funny and insightful.
'The Life and Loves of a She Devil', written in 1983, is a gleefully bawdy satire on the war of the sexes, and a fable about the rewards and dangers of our capacity for transformation.
When Ruth discovers her husband is sleeping with a prettier, richer woman, she makes ingenious and diabolical plans to punish them both.
Ruth's campaign to punish her husband and his mistress is well-advanced, and now she will still stop at nothing to get the life, and the body, she desires.
Ruth - Hattie MorahanMary Fisher - Lyndsey MarshalBobbo - Barnaby Kayhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YCSu...
Fay Weldon was in the zone when she penned this masterpiece, and that pen of hers cuts like a knife. The movie made from this book is the worst butchering of a story I've ever been unfortunate enough to encounter. On the other hand the BBC did an excellent adaptation as a mini-series by remaining quite faithful to the book. This novel could be quite dangerous in the hands of the wrong woman. :-)
If you think this is a funny story about a woman's evil plot for revenge on her cheating husband, well, you are both right, wrong, and in for a surprise...or great confusion, depending on your capacity to perceive subtlety and metaphor.
We, as the reader, want to believe that she is evolving past that need for his approval, when in fact, every good thing she did was in pursuit of that unworthy goal.This book is an exploration of a woman's sense of worth, and how society influences the twisted form that the her hard earned version of "self esteem" ultimately takes.
I am pleased to say that my enemies compare me about equally often to both the women in this book, which I interpret as meaning that I'm as attractive as Mary and as smart as Ruth. Balance. That's what life's all about.
When I say this book is brilliant, I do not mean it in the British sense, as in casually cool, nice job, well done...
I mean it is insightful, creative, well-written, highly developed characters and an incredible story line.
Just when you think it cannot get any better, it does!
And, which I love, is it makes you really think about thinks like societal expectations of women, good versus evil, and right/wrong.
I haven't ripped through a book like this in years, and I loved every second of this book.
I can see why they made it into a movie (highly underrated, I might add).
Ruth gives up love to un-wife, un-mother, and essentially un-woman herself to become the she-devil - the making of the witch.But It's Really a Fairytale: And in reading other peoples' review of this book, I noticed that a lot of reviewers criticized Weldon's intractable, inflexible characterizations.
This is a novel about a woman who accepts and understands her anger, but she uses this power to practically destroy herself (view spoiler)[(because at the end of the novel she has legally killed off her Ruth identity to become the physical re-animation of Mary Fischer) (hide spoiler)] and the lives of those around her.
True, it's quite a de-fanged version compared to the televised mini-series, but some of the themes remain intact despite the overall lightening of the content.
And it was every bit as deliciously enjoyable as both celluloid adaptations.Weldon pulls the reader in from the go by introducing one of two narrative themes, the first being a present tense voice that is the omniscient voice of Ruth, the protagonist of the novel.
But with that sort of reading or not, it's an immensely enjoyable book and it's making me seek out the original mini-series to compare it to because it was far truer to the book, if memory serves.
Ruth is trying her best to ignore the affair, but after a particularly degrading scene, Bobbo moves out of his home in the suburb of Eden Grove, abandons his wife and two children and moves to Mary Fisher’s splendid home, the High Tower.Mary Fisher is the embodiment of everything Ruth isn’t: small, petite, feminine and highly desirable.
Hate obsesses and transforms me; it is my singular attribution."While Bobbo and Mary Fisher have the looks, the power and the money on their side, Ruth is dumped with the two squabbling children, a gluttonous vomiting dog who humps anyone lower on the totem pole, a cat who fouls the house, and an unfortunate guinea pig.
I picked up this book from my local library thinking it would be the literary equivalent of the 1989 movie with Meryl Streep and Roseanne Barr.
I love the movie with inexcusable glee - - it's a guilty pleasure, the revenge is wonderfully satisfying and Meryl Streep is incredible, as always.
By the end of the book, I simply didn't like her.Had I not seen "She Devil" and adored the movie for its late 80s overblown silliness, I likely would not have finished the book.
However, I would not hesitate to recommend "She Devil" for its guilty pleasure and the always impressive Meryl Streep.
From BBC Radio 4 - Riot Girlsby Fay Weldon, adapted by Joy Wilkinson.
A darkly comic fairy tale about revenge, sex and power.When Ruth discovers her husband is sleeping with a prettier, richer woman, she makes ingenious and diabolical plans to punish them both.'The Life and Loves of a She Devil', written in 1983, is a gleefully bawdy satire on the war of the sexes, and a fable about the rewards and dangers of our capacity for transformation.It is part of Riot Girls on Radio 4, a series of no-holds-barred women's writing that includes Erica Jong's 'Fear of Flying' and original plays following three generations of women by Lucy Catherine and Ella Hickson.Adapted by Joy WilkinsonDirected by Abigail le FlemingThe WriterFay Weldon CBE has written 34 novels, numerous TV dramas, several radio plays, 5 full length stage plays and five collections of short stories.
Consequently, although the book depicts the complete triumph of a scorned woman over her cheating husband and his mistress, this victory is mostly won on anti-feminist terms.
(It's also difficult to determine why the mistress, whose life is turned upside-down by Ruth's husband and children, doesn't simply cut her lover loose.) In short, this book is not about a woman who defies an unjust system, but about people who wage bitter and unpleasant battles, in order to succeed on the system's biased terms.
Well, this is a wild and wonderful book if you are fond of the idea of revenge or have ever day dreamed of it.Ruth is a ponderous creature of gargantuan proportions who is married to Bobbo, an accountant who happens to be in love with Mary Fisher, a writer of romance novels who lives in a lighthouse overlooking the California coastline.Bobbo, being a modern man, feels free to tell Ruth of his love for Mary Fisher and his excursions into her bedroom, while reminding Ruth of how inept, unlovable and clumsy she is.
One day Ruth snaps this is all too much for her and she turns into a she-devil.She carefully and patiently plots her revenge.
This book was unbelievably shallow, mean, and petty, and I did not enjoy it at all.
At first you sort of feel sorry for the main character, Ruth, because her husband cheats on her and essentially blames her for all of their problems.
But her idea of revenge is to not only destroy the life of her husband's mistress, but to then take over that life.
She becomes a horrible person who does far worse things than the mistress ever did, and we're supposed to still care about her and empathize with her?
I would not recommend this book to anyone.
This is a subversive revenge tale because the desire for revenge is shown for the twisted envy that can develop for the target of the revenge.
This is touted as a feminist revenge tale, but it is more of a subtle critique than the bludgeon I have seen it reviewed as.
Feminism is critiqued.
Men are critiqued.
Religion is critiqued.
Government, plastic surgeons, feminist communes, the poor -- no one comes out unscathed.
Not to mention romance novels.
The interesting thing is I didn't fully realize how skillfully it was all done until I sat down and started to review the book.
Hell, he even encourages her to go out and find someone else to love, as he snickered behind her back knowing there wasn't a man on earth that would want this thing he was 'forced' to marry.The lovely and beautiful authoress, Mary Fisher, hired Bobbo to do her books and invited him to parties and the like, and a full-blown lustful affair struck between the two lovers.
Oooh they couldn't help themselves, it was fate.Mary Fisher lived in a high tower by the sea and with it she took the only man that Ruth ever loved, Bobbo.
Ruth is a large, ugly housewife whose husband, Bobbo, feels justified in having affairs with more attractive, daintier women.
Ruth goes along with the status quo until Bobbo moves in with his latest mistress, Mary Fisher, a blonde, dainty penner of romance novels--the sterotypical ideal of the childless woman.
This book deals with themes such as the importance of image upon women in our society, gender roles, cosmetic surgery, and most of all the struggle between the powerful and powerless.
In reversing roles with her husband, Ruth becomes the powerful and he the oppressed.
When Bobbo leaves Ruth for his mistress, Mary Fisher, a delicate-looking and wealthy writer of romance novels, Ruth begins her transformation from docile, long-suffering hausfrau to diabolical and courageous "she-devil," stopping at nothing to get her elaborately plotted revenge on her husband's mistress and to eventually take over her life.Initially, Ruth's exploits and creative evil doings are really funny, and Faye Weldon's clever writing style enhances the effect.
That she would use this anger to transform herself into someone prettier, and shallower, and ultimately become those she so resented, is not.The fact that this book has been so championed as a feminist novel, when its premise seems only to be power over men, selfish sexual practices, and making yourself "beautiful" through surgery, shows a deep and almost insulting misunderstanding of feminism.If men are so worthless and pathetic, why go to so much trouble to win back one miserable cheating husband?
That a doting mother could dump off her children with a woman she despised and never look back.
If you can ignore the WAY in which Ruth was reinvented, and the vapid, shallow, empty person she became, then you might really love this book.
Det här är en lika elegant som halvgalen liten klassiker, som jag läser med ett leende på läpparna.
Jag vet inte om det var Weldons mening att man bara ska ta Ruths parti, men jag finner mig sympatisera minst lika mycket med Mary Fisher.
Fjanten Bobbo (vad ÄR det för ett namn?) har jag dock inte mycket till övers för.
Jag läser Nina Björks förord i den pocketupplaga jag har.
Hon påpekar att Ruth i sin hämndodyssé mot Bobbo inte är tillräckligt feministisk.
Ruth ser till att helt på egen hand ta sig dit hon vill.
What a fun book.
I remember seeing the movie several years ago, with Merle Streep as the ethereal romance writer, Roseanne Barr as the spurned wife, and Ed Begley Jr. as the adulterous husband.When the husband, an accountant, leaves his lumpish wife for the beautiful romance writer, the wife decides to get revenge.
Little by little she destroys his job, steals all his money, burns her house down.
She turns her eyes to the writer, dumps her children on her, starts a course of body-enhancing plastic surgery, and enjoys life.The book is as much fun as the movie, as the She-Devil of the title moves step by step to destroy the happiness of her husband and his lover.
This was way more entertaining than anticipated! I've never seen the series or the film so I went into The Life and Loves of a She Devil completely blind and, as a result, ended up being blown away. It was incredibly gripping and well-written and I loved most of it. I ended up giving this four instead of five stars because the ending really creeped me out - ew ew ew ew to the last part of Ruth's revenge. But apart from that, I don't have much to criticise :)
This book swings wildly from being superbly witty to downright ludicrous. I loved the interjectory chapters of the people Ruth meets along the way, and how Ruth comes into her own throughout the narrative (albeit to a slightly mad extreme) but 4 stars for me because I'm slightly unsatisfied the ending, even though I suppose it's what to expect from Ruth the she devil...
Compulsively readable. This dark (and often funny) gothic fairytale is a meditation on revenge, exploring what happens when a woman, pushed to breaking point, decides to rise above her "station". Diabolical!
And then Bobbo rings and says he won't be home, and the children come back from school, and a strange familiar silence descends upon the house, a think, white muffling blanket thrown over our lives: and even when the cat catches a mouse, the yowls and yelps seem to come from a distant place, another world." (6)"What I think is that the other women up and down Eden Grove are better than I am at telling themselves lies.
We make good old women." (6-7)"Love, compared to hate, is a pallid emotion.
Daring. Badass.
However, what is truly special about this book is that it goes beyond being a mere page-turner and presents a quite brilliant commentary on the balance (or imbalance) of power in numerous societal contexts, beginning with the relationship between a husband and wife.
Throughout her quest to gain power and control over both her husband and the fate of his mistress, Ruth explores many other power-dynamics: the relationship between a doctor/dentist and patient; a boss and an employee; the helpless (elderly, children, mentally ill) and those that are employed to help them; the church/religion and a priest; a priest and his flock; the poor and the rich; judges and criminals; and prisoners and the state.
Bobbo is having a not secret affair with Mary Fisher, who is Ruth's opposite in every way imaginable, and whom he loves.
After a family dinner with his parents goes horribly wrong, Bobbo decides he's had enough, tells Ruth she's a she devil, packs his bags, and moves in with Mary Fisher.
The author has a distinctive voice, regardless of which point of view is being used at the time.
Ruth's plan to take down Mary Fisher and Bobbo is very long reaching, with plenty of planning and manipulation.
*I Googled Ms. Weldon, and on Wikipedia it says that she says this book is about envy, not about revenge.
I know the movie so well, it hurts.
It hurts, because I found the movie to be more entertaining, funny, and worth my time than the book.
It found a way to take this story and flesh it out in a commercial way.The book encompasses the film, yes, but it continues and becomes sad.
We start the book, like the film, with Ruth's narration - and then two chapters later, it switches to third person.
The book continues this pattern - a few chapters from Ruth a few about Ruth.
Not worth the time.
