https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39033.Still_Life_With_Crows
Another great addition in the Pendergast series!I’m sure you can you tell I’m excited to do this review, right?
To be entertained?Thanks Terry for another great buddy read while we travel down Pendergast lane!So, how does this book start?
It starts in a small town in Kansas with rows of corn ready for harvest and a killer on the loose.
I really thought the setting of Kansas would not work for me in this book and oh boy, I was wrong.Let me paint a scene for you so you’ll get the idea.You’re running and gasping through 12’ rows of corn in the darkest of night.
For a Kansas-set book that takes place amidst acres and acres of oppressive and unrelenting corn fields, there could be no other choice (well, there are some other thematically appropriate foods I could select based on the plot, some of which involve boiling and sugaring, but they are considerably more unsavory, and I don’t want to offend those with delicate stomachs and/or those who have an aversion to the consumption of human flesh (philistines)).Think of corn at its best—corn on the cob in the peak of summer, sweet and succulent, cooked, buttered, and salted to perfection—and you’ve got the best parts of Still Life with Crows: a stormy and Midwestern Gothic atmosphere, a taut and tense hunt for a particularly creepy killer, Pendergast doing Pendergastian things, and a supporting cast that feels more three-dimensional (or, at least two-dimensional) than most thrillers.
I'd been reading a slew of horror and suspense novels, and this one was certainly one of the scariest.
I've always enjoyed 'Small Town Horror' settings.
No, this isn't quite the same thing as 'Salem's Lot or Ghost Story, but neither does it pretend to be.
While this book can certainly be read as a stand-alone novel, it is part of a series and it would only be fair to approach it with that fact in mind.
It is extremely atmospheric and contains some of the creepiest corn field scenes you're ever likely to read.
Is there such a thing as Terror Fiction?
Why are you reading this review instead of a Pendergast book? These books are soooooo damn good!Suspenseful . . . mysterious . . . gory . . . terrifying . . . Most books have just one or two chapters of suspenseful climax. The entire last third of this book had me on the edge of my seat.If you like Michael Crichton and Dan Brown but are looking for something a bit more hardcore, look no further than Preston & Child. Do yourself a favor and start reading the Pendergast series!
3.5 stars. Pendergast is a great character! This series can be pretty creepy actually and this one was no exception. The books make a good occasional read for when I've overdosed on one type of book (usually fantasy in my case)! These books are always suspenseful, not too demanding but also not too predictable.
The Pendergast series has so far been highly entertaining and full of creepy and chilling suspense.
The character of Pendergast continues to intrigue and delight me to no end.
And if even the cool city-slickers in New York can be unnerved by Pendergast, just imagine what it will do to a small corn farm community in Kansas.
While not as deeply atmospheric as the scenes in New York's museums, underground tunnels and cabinet of curiosities, the cornfields of Kansas can still conjure up some spine-chilling images.
As for the conclusion of this book, the climactic scenes were slightly less suspenseful than the previous volumes.
Like all the entries in this incredibly entertaining series, it is obvious some of the relationships will linger and spill over into other books.Atmospheric, exciting, horrific, and with more character-driven humor than readers of a novel about dark and horrific crimes in America's heartland have any right to expect, this is a great read, and can be enjoyed even if you have not read any prior entries.
I love several books in the Pendergast series. But, I think Still Lif with Crows is my personal favorite. It has an interesting and engrossing plot and best of it all we are introduced to Corrie Swanson, who besides Pendergast is my favorite character in the series!
"Because truth is the safest lie."I'm in love - this book has now pushed itself to the top of the line of the first four novels from the talented team of Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. Pendergast actually leaves New York and travels to a small, dying town that's covered in cornfields and old Indian Legend. When the dust settles, it's clear they have a demented killer at hand. At first the sheriff blames an outsider, but it soon become apparent it's someone nearer to them than that...the only
Pendergast actually leaves New York and travels to a small, dying town that's covered in cornfields and old Indian Legend.
This small town with it's backward appeal was the perfect solution.
The ending was a delight because it shows something hidden under all our noses the entire time, a twisted twist for sure that made the book even closer to achieving perfection.Even the sheriff's office proves more interesting than you'd first thing.
Throw in the creepy small town setting and some well-done side characters, and call me a serious fan of this book.
Another terrific installment in the Pendergast series by Preston and Child.
It's evidence of a great mystery book when I'm left wondering all the way to the end exactly what is going on, even to the point of getting the biggest revelation in the final pages.
I think the setting painted by the authors in this book is perfect for this storyline, as creepy and awe-inspiring as it is.
I look forward to the next book in the series, as well as the other Preston/Child books.
And truly, I will never think of Thanksgiving, or eating corn-on-the-cob the same again...
Another stellar mystery involving Special Agent Pendergast.
This was a red hot, horrifying read! A murder mystery with the feel of a genuine horror, slasher flick.Scenes unfold at a relentless pace and chills fly at you like bullets. Not very predictable either. I didn't see the revelation coming until the moment before Pendergast did the big tell-all. Eerie prose that keeps you guessing and captivated.The whole thing with the antagonist was just plain freaky. Also, I'll never think of cornfields the same way again.
The elasticity of his relationship with the FBI is a continual topic of conversation among those who know him.I enjoyed this book also (it's the source of one of my favorite quotes, especially if you can imagine it in Pendergast'a New Orleans accent.
When asked why he always wears black he responds "I am partial to the color".
But on the whole it doesn't really take away from the book.By the way the reason I like the quote is that most of my clothes are black or at least dark.
I to am "partial to the color".
This book tells of a series of deaths that are gruesome as they come and Pendergast on vacation in a little town in central USA is very curious about the situation and invites himself.Pendergast as always works very wel when it highlights some curious bit of Americana, in this case the disappearing towns in the great expanse of the United states.
Also highlighted is the bloody history of this particular town when it comes to taking land of the Natives inhabitants whose revenge does play a major role in the story.
After three great books, the law of averages finally caught up with Agent Pendergast.
While this book is still much better than most of the dross out there, this is easily the weakest so far due to two reasons.
The first being the over-reliance on the memory palace (this was ok in The Cabinet of Curiosities) because in this book it acts as a deux ex machina.
This book has excellent writing and characterization going for it along one of the coolest names ever but that is not enough for me to overlook the previous points.So, Still Life with Crows is good but not great.
The backdrop of New York City is left behind, Special Agent Pendergast takes a small "vacation" which is only a cover up for tackling yet another gruesome case, this time taking place in remote town of Medicine Creek, Kansas.
This novel does is it brilliantly, people go in and some never come out...What I love about this series, other than Pendergast who is a fantastic and mesmerizing character, is that the reader never knows if something supernatural is going on or if life in the story is really that weird and bizarre.
Things even get worse as locals are murdered in the cornfields amidst peculiar ritual practices.
One of the real strengths of this novel is the focus upon the sweltering heat amidst the cornfields (you truly get a feel for the setting) and the small town folk values as their community spins out of control.
Contrary to what others have said in their reviews I found the cave finale to be fantastic and the points of view on the various locals was awesome.
CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B plus; SETTING: A minus to A; STORY/PLOTTING: B plus; WHEN READ: January to March 2011 (revised review Jan 2013); MY GRADE: B plus to A minus.
I really, really loved this story, made all the better by Scott Brick's narration. Thank you to the authors and another to Scott. I was totally not prepared for the last part of the Epilogue! I cannot seem to want to get these characters out of my system.
This was spookier and scarier than its predecessors. Didn't think that was probable.3.75 stars
I have a little crush on Aloysius Pendergast, I do believe.
As with Brimstone, I found the actual revelation of the villain to be a bit of a let-down -- these novels seem to suffer from the same problem that plagues a lot of horror movies, which is that once you show the monster it's just not as scary.
Still, this was a great, diverting read.
We are all Cory Swanson. Even if we’ve never had it that bad I feel like it’s true. I want to see her again in this series, she represents hope.The story itself was pretty damn good with a dark fairytale ending. I will certainly be continuing the series.
I mean, what's not to like from a Goth 18 year old girl in Poedunk Kansas (Dorthy don't even know where this place is) who, after speeding through town and getting arrested by the sherrif utters such spectacular phrases as, "you fart eating bastard!" The story is scary, like all of the Pendergast series, the plot is complicated and well thought out.
Though she is young and inexperienced in fast paced world of thriller fiction Corey Swanson makes a strong, character who grows into a strong young woman by the end and turns out to be smarter than all of them...(well we kind of knew that with "Fart-eating Bastard!" right?) Good read from a good series that really shifts gears at the third book.
CORN!!!!!!!Seriously, IMO I did not think Pendergast should have been put to do his work in a small Kansas town, but whatever.
Than you got Pendergast, a smooth talking, pressed suit wearing SOB who apparently has no sweat glands that are put to work even in a 100 degrees kind of weather.
Than you got the whole idea of the detective partnering up with a social outcast who is there because she knows the town and not much else.
I know this was a rather boring review but this book left me a bit let down.
As much as I like to read about this smartass detective, the book kind of wasted him on nothing.
I don't think it's possible to create more boring, stereotypically unrealistic characters than Preston and Child did here.
Per usual, it's a story that involves a questionable series of murders in which Pendergast shows up, uninvited (duh!), and unwelcome.
All of the inner monologues and overly descriptive meanderings do little if anything to add to the story line.
She eased open a cupboard, took out a box of Cap'n Crunch and a bowl, and carefully filled it.
She carefully filled the bowl with milk?
We don't need you to go through the thought process of every single character.
In this book we find Special Agent Aloysius Pendergast arriving mysteriously in Medicine Creek, Kansas.
Agent Pendergast is in a race to prevent more murders while trying to keep from being run out of town by the local sheriff.
The characters in this book are colorful to say the least and everyone seems to have motives for the murders.
Coming into play, are ancient Native American legends that most townspeople would rather be kept in the closet, but of course Pendergast goes digging much deeper and finds even more than he bargained for.
I especially enjoyed the Native American lore.
Likable whodunnit, with Pendergast sleuthing a possible serial killer in western Kansas.
So much corn.
(Of course there was another journalist in the story to bug me.) So, this story is basically about corn and things that happen in, around, and amongst the corn.
You have Pendergast and a whole bunch of weirdos and just rather an interesting cast of characters to keep things Fresh amongst the fields.
One character that Pendergast picks to be his assistant is particularly interesting and I hope shows up later.
I feel the happenings in this one were definitely made for the long creaky stalks of corn, and weirdness described in this small town.
This was the 1st one of this series that we read.
We laughed hysterically at times & were thoroughly intrigued at others!
We ended up starting at the beginning & listening to the whole series together.
We like the narrator Scott Brick the best.
The Diogenes trilogy is probably our favorite but I still remember this one with very fond memories.Fast fwd to August 2018.
Reading this again with my daughter.
Hubby loaned me a 'y' adaptor to use with my iPod so we could both plug in our headphones & listen together on the flight to Seattle for a mum/daughter adventure :) We loved it together :)
Good mystery in the Pendergast series. I liked the descriptions of the town and thought the characters were interesting. The murders were pretty gruesome, although the reason for it is explained in the end. Corrie, a favorite character in this series, plays a big part in the plot. Worth reading.
And another one! As always, great story, great setting, and maybe one of my favorite set of characters so far. Looking forward to the trilogy next.
