https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1728707.The_Strange_Life_of_Nikola_Tesla
Nikola Tesla, a very strange yet a very intellectual man.
So, I felt like reading some more about him and this little book I found.
He used to imagine things, build up machine models, come up various mechanisms in his mind!
In an ancient time like that, a woman actually made herself a role model in the arena of the invention which encouraged her child!
Besides, Mr. Tesla used various mechanical terms throughout the whole book of which some I understood and some just passed over my head!
This book mainly focuses on the inventions Mr. Tesla came up with.
Tesla narrates various anecdotes from his rather eventful life and career giving readers glimpses of his remarkable mind, acute senses, amazing ability to visualise, curiosity, indefatigable working capacity, and inventive tendencies, besides his rather remarkable family.
These qualities and abilities (some, at least) were both a blessing and a curse allowing him to see and dream of things that ordinary mortals can’t but at the same time which did not let him have the most comfortable of existences.
And if astounding his readers with his feats weren’t enough, Tesla shows in an instance or two that he can also bring a smile to our faces.
I liked the anecdotes about his mother, who, he writes, invented and constructed all kinds of tools and devices, and from whom he seems to have inherited his creativity and imagination.
She invented and constructed all kinds of tools and devices and wove the finest designs from thread which was spun by her.
On one occasion I started to read the works of Voltaire, when I learned, to my dismay that there were close to one hundred large volumes in small print which that monster had written while drinking seventy-two cups of black coffee per diem.
Tesla could be considered a typical genius - he had a sharp mind, but not without certain quirks (an aversion to pearls, for example). This book is a collection of anecdotes from both his youth and adult life which exhibits his technical mind.One strange paragraph appears in this book, where Tesla makes the claim that the world will know peace when the races of man merge together and that there is in fact just one race, of many colours. It's safe to say that modern society has proven this theory of his to be quite the fallacy.
Short but interesting read of a man who was a genius, but also may have suffered from many mental illnesses and found himself caught up in a world where he wanted to do good for all and others only wanted to use his inventions to make money.
Truly strange. This book gave me a head start in understanding how americans do business. It also shocked me on the ways Edison used to do business.
I have got to read more about Tesla. Very interesting guy.
I took from this that by looking through the eyes of enough living and passed authors is how anyone can understand their world.
No doubt the best of brains, who never got the due credit. Tesla will always remain a league of his own, very different from the Edisons and Eisteins.
(Portuguese review)Livro pequeno e autobiográfico (compilação de artigos escritos por Tesla para uma revista). Recomendo para quem quiser conhecer mais sobre a vida de Tesla e também porque é uma leitura rápida (100 págs. no máximo). O ponto negativo é justamente porque o livro é pequeno demais para o tamanho da obra desse cara 150 anos a frente de seu tempo.
It was very grateful and gave me the knowledge I have.
Everything that lives is related to a deep and wonderful relationship: man and the stars, amoebas’ and the sun, the heart and the circulation of an infinite number of worlds.
Universe is alive in all its manifestations, like a thinking animal.
Stone is a thinking and sentient being, such as plant, beast and a man.
His breathing, his eyes and ears of the man must comply with breathing, eyes and ears of the Universe.when i read this words it seems to me like I read Buddhist texts, words or Taoist Parazulzusa !
Fascinating, he was not so good at his early days and then he obtained the self control.
So mysterious events were the images comes into his mind, but the book definitely is an incomplete one, some of the events are missing especially about this.
One of the common things among the great scientists are their imagination and control of their mind.
Yet another thing comes many times in his life was the maladies, oh my god how this guy survived these many diseases and still been a greatest scientist and inventor.
His wireless electric current supply is still pending among his imagination.
"The pressure of occupation and the incessant stream of impressions pouring into our consciousness through all the gateways of knowledge make modern existence hazardous in many ways. Most persons are so absorbed in the contemplation of the outside world that they are wholly oblivious to what is passing on within themselves. The premature death of millions is primarily traceable to this cause. Even among those who exercise care, it is a common mistake to avoid imaginary, and ignore the real dangers. And what is true of an individual also applies, more or less, to a people as a whole."
A strange life, a strange man. And who gets away with this high a heap of self appraisal?Nikola does! A personal favourite of Edison in his time, to name one, he waves his flag in acclaim of free energy, global.An 'electrifying' ghost to haunt the Royal Society? Yup!Anyway, a 'flash'back by a brilliant mind.A good read for the content; you modern geeks surrender!Tesla needs no introduction in physics.But was this ever meant to go public? The translation (from serbian?) at times barely makes sense (and where are his patents to bring free energy to the world?!).
That was a great read into the life and mind of a genius. Most certainly a different way of thinking a genius take, one that can not be believed or imagined! His passion and hardwork is very inspiring. Although, I do like my sleep. I did not understand much of the science in the book, but the process of his mind is so fascinating. Fascinating book! One of the first books I began to read on my book reading journey.
Definitely a strange life. The Strange Life of Nikola Tesla captured his life in great details. I learned a lot about Tesla's early life, such as his childhood and how he got into inventing. It was very interesting to see how an inventor like Tesla thinks about life. Maybe a little to much unnecessary details in some places, but overall kept me wanting to read more.
Fascinated with his life for years; wanted to hear it first from his own words before delving into other biographies. The best parts were the vivid descriptions of his creative visions and persistence in bringing them to light.
Such a automaton he was , great inventor truly an unsung engineer ...
Mi piacerebbe leggere una storia sulla vita di sua madre...e comunque, Strange life veramente, Nikola!
It is interesting to see how one of the greatest inventors think about life and give a glimpse of his working and thought process
A very odd sort of autobiography. It provides much more insight into how Tesla thought of himself than how he developed his science.
A strange book. Tesla was a smart man.
