https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6931374-our-american-cousin
Abraham Lincoln spent his final hours watching a phenomenally silly play.
Some of us knew that when President Abraham Lincoln was assassinated on the evening of April 14, 1865, at Washington, D.C. 19s Ford 19s Theater, he was in the middle of watching a play called 1COur American Cousin.
This book is divided into three parts: an introduction by Welford Dunaway Taylor that looks at the history of the play and of the day that led up to Lincoln 19s murder; the play itself, which had been written in 1851 by Englishman Tom Taylor; appendices including cast lists and a poem from a May 1865 issue of the British periodical 1CPunch 1D remembering Lincoln and explicitly regretting the merciless fun the magazine had made of Lincoln for the previous four to five years.The publication of 19th century theater lore reminds us that much of this lore, though it was well-known at the time, is lost to us today.
A cunning american, Asa Trenchard, descends on his British relations with an inheritance and a hankering to get a ring around their noses.
Florence Trenchard wants to marry Vernon but Vernon has no ship.
Coyle wants to marry Florence but she is outside his station.
And Mary will end up in poverty, because her inheritance actually goes to Asa.There are some clever lines and wordplay, but boy is this play super dependent on the performance.
Lord Dundreary's lunacy in particular feels stiff in writing, and requires an actor to breath some life into his wordplay.
This play is memorable only because it was the one President Lincoln was watching when he was shot.
The line which served as Booth's cue to fire the fatal shot, "You sockdologizing old man-trap", occurs three fourths of the way through, and now that I have read the play, I can't help but think it would have been a kindness to the President to shoot him earlier.
According to a recent clue on "Jeopardy", this play was last performed in the United States in 1915.
One wonders why it was performed even then.
[Play Lincoln was attending at Ford's Theater when assassinated]
Poor Abe. He really should have just stayed home.
I was dreading this because most of the reviews are quite negative. But I found that, with a little imagination, it isn't all that bad. The humor is definitely of the physical sort (hence the need for an imagination) and has equal fun with the Backwoodsy American and the Posh British cousins. Not great, but not mud either. I feel a little better now knowing that the movie that pictures Lincoln laughing before he was shot might have been accurate. ** I know. Accuracy versus my feelings. A tough battle, as it is for most people.
