https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94064.Rainbow_Boys
This read like an exceedingly bland public service announcement. At some point in time Rainbow Boys would have been groundbreaking in its positive portrayal of gay teenagers, but by 2003 the characters and scenarios are -- at least within queer pop culture -- common at best. A progressive illustration doesn't quite cut it as an excuse for banality.
The only reason I've read this book is that Matt Bomer's face is on the cover.
All three high school students are incredibly different from one another, but all three find themselves struggling with their own identities, relationships, love, and intolerance.
Honestly, I have no idea why I haven't read this already because it's an absolute must read.
When this book came out I would have just been going into high school, and I think this novel would be brilliant and do the most good in the hands of those students regardless of the novel's age now.
If you haven't read this novel yet, what are you waiting for?
Alex Sanchez's writing had only a surface level quality to it and I couldn't connect to any of the characters or the plot events beyond a mere "aw, I wish that didn't happen to X character" or "aw, Y character and Z character are pretty cute together." Some of the slang was outdated such as "putting the make" on someone and "crank calls." And one strange incident occurred: one of the main characters slept all night with his contacts in but felt perfectly fine the next morning.
Finished this book in a day! Yes, a day. It was an easy heart-warming read. Alex Sanchez really did an amazing job to entertain and to lecture at the same. This is one of my  life changing books  cause it really made me realize the facts I am facing today.Well enough of my problems. Though there might me a lot of parts where it just kept changing from one scene to another it really is a must read for every one!
This is a great book, a wonderful resource for teens who are gay, questioning or are simply interested in the perspectives of gay teens and how they can be supportive of their gay peers.I was recently warned that I may be in danger of hell-fire for promoting books such as these because students may "turn gay" after reading this material.
A student does not "turn gay" simply by reading a book.
This is very disturbing to me.Whether you agree with these lifestyles or not, the truth is that teens (and parents) need resources and support.
I loved being introduced to these 3 boys.
So different yet they each have a connection.
Watching their story unfold left me wanting more.
ETA  Second time reading and still as good as the first.
I love how we get a look at all three boys and their differences, while seeing them all at the same time.
Its hard to pick a favorite as they all have good and bad points.
But I think despite how whinny he can be, Nelson is the one I feel most attuned too.
Not the flamboyant sassy Nelson, but the insecure lonely Nelson.
But how can I explain that the dated-ness is one of the biggest reasons why I love this book?Young adult fiction now contains piles and piles of LGBTQ fiction addressing sexual orientation and coming out, but there was a time that there were none to be found.
We hear from each boy in his own voice about his fears and joys of trying to find himself, friends, and love all while trying to survive the horrors of high school.
I can’t emphasize it enough—I think everyone should read this book to see how much has changed and how far we’ve come.

I kept finding myself enchanted by the writing and beautiful storytelling and realizing that this book is a great book for those who are still in the process of accepting themselves or want a simple book about accepting who you are, romance and friendship.In the very beginning of this story, if I had to pick a character that could relate to me, no doubt it would be Nelson.
I related to Nelson in the beginning but felt like a complete stranger midway through because he does dangerous things could have gotten him killed or sick.I love Jason and Kyle.
I'm sure it reaches a broader audience this way, but it killed the realistic feel of the novel, and I can't imagine most young people not finding it silly.I also found it annoying that Sanchez portrayed every character in the story as being convinced that one unsafe encounter would necessarily lead to becoming HIV positive.
But all of the adults, including doctors, that the boys encountered seemed utterly convinced that the boy who had unsafe sex was now HIV positive.
It was alarmist.Nevertheless, like everything I've read by Sanchez, this is an important book to have available to young people.
Have read an Alex Sanchez book before, and enjoyed his style with this piece as well.Cute story of three senior year boys coming of age and coming to terms with being gay in a largely bigoted high school.
Together with help from the Art teacher, Ms. MacTraugh, they petition to start a Gay/Straight Alliance group at their school.
I enjoy quick reads like these, and wish I had something like this to identify with when I was coming of age...
This was such a lovely and fast read. Four stars. 7.5 or 8 out of 10. Found in the LGBTQ section of Foyles at a good price and I new I'd liked it. Three gay character all dealing differently with their coming out. It was interesting and felt very real. Maybe a bit old fashioned but still very good.
fantastic read I felt I knew the boys by the end so om going to read ok 2 now
I liked how Nelson's mom was such a good and accepting mom, you'd think it would be one of the other two's parents that were like that.
But it was good, because in a lot of earlier queer books no one had even one accepting parent.
It kind of sucked that there weren't too many accepting kids who weren't gay at their high school, which would have been nice.
I do think that Sanchez's writing style is a bit too telling, not showing, which made it kind of hard to read sometimes because telling doesn't immerse you as much, but it was pretty good altogether.
I was pleasantly surprised.The copy looks like something from the 1980s, and I'm not sure why.
Anyways, the cover in combination with the descrip made me think it was going to be cliche.I picked it up anyway, because it was one of the few queer lit books at my local library (way to go rural PA).
This keeps you from getting bored with the "between time" of one character and helps the book keep a nice quick pace.
I think one thing that surprised me about the book was that it actually touched on serious topics (like AIDS, sex without condoms, and all the complications therein).
times have changed so much that the book can not sustain the reality of the facts and the mental level of nowadays teens' issues.
mr.sanchez really generalized, stereotyped and [ i am sure ] fantasized his writing through this book so much that his prose just collapsed.
his book was so expected and contrived that it left me empty thinking.maybe mr.
sanchez, who i believe wrote the Rainbow Boys' Nelson's flaming character based on himself, newest books are better written and update to any level of any matter the man decides to put his thoughts to work.
For book worm like me, all this positive words and reviews made me to want read this one.
And I don't feel sorry.I don't know what's going on in the gay world...
But that book made me feel like those people which have to fight so many hard moments in their days with other people which just can't accept them.
I'm not gay, but I totally fall in love with this book!
Its so good written that you don't realize when you are closing the book and opening the next one.I strongly recommend this no matter to gay people or straight people.
The book is told through 3 boys eyes with alternating chapters of each of their perspectives.
Kyle, a nice boy, whose a swimmer.
He hangs out with Nelson a gay boy who's obviously gay.
Also, Kyle is in love with Jason, a basketball player.
Through the course of the book Kyle comes out to his parents.
So does Jason and they become boyfriends?
Kyle and Nelson have to deal with violence from a couple of other boys at school.
Not the best YA I've read but one of the very few that deals with gay boys as the protaganists.
L'ho letto in italiano 1812374392824 volte, lo conosco a memoria.. E sono rimasta shoccata e DISGUSTATA dalla censura nella nostra italica bigotta versione.No, dai, ma seriamente??*Disgusted mode: ON*
So good!
cute but some annoying characters and mundane plot and writing style
This book was really good, I couldn't put it down for one minute! It was inspirational, and it really made me realize how being yourself is the important thing and not trying to be someone else.
Чудесно утро, което започва с чаша кафе и Rainbow Boys. Не знам какъв точно им е проблема на хората, та освен да плюят по "различните" от тях, друго не им се отдава...
I wanted to skip over all of Nelson's parts though - I felt he was a terrible person, incredibly manipulative and kind of just existed to be a cautionary AIDS tale?
It read as if Sanchez wanted the reader to feel sorry for Nelson, but, sorry, he's a crappy friend and person who doesn't take responsibility for his actions, so why should we?The plot was okay, like I said, I got caught up in the lives of the boys (especially Jason's home life, and Kyle's coming out to his parents), but the writing was quite amateurish.
I think I missed the optimal age to appreciate this book fully which is sad. It wasn’t a bad story and many parts really tug at the heart strings. But being 30 and not 15 a lot of the altercations took such an extreme turn so quickly that without the benefit of raging hormones I couldn’t relate in the slightest. Again unfortunate because the subject matter itself I can relate to entirely. If you are at that age, going through high school this book 500% was written for you and I highly recommend it.
*Spoilers*Below is my most favorite partNelson squirmed with embarrassment as his mom continued: “That’s my son, taken his first morning of kindergarten.
For the past twelve years, every single school day he’s been caled names and obscenities, while most teachers have stood by silently.
“Simply because he walks and talks differently from other boys, he’s been hit, kicked, beat up, spit upon, and received death threats.” Nelson slid down in his seat, wishing she hadn’t told everyone he’d been spit upon.
“Some here talk about family values while in the same breath they disparage a group that would foster values of tolerance and understanding.
It's about gay kids in high school, and the book kind of reads like a public service announcement.
Hey Kids...get your parents involved in PFLAG!
Hey kids....the GSA (gay straight alliance) has a right to meet thanks to the Federal Equal Access Act!
Does a gay boy really have to be all close with his mom, but have a tortured relationship with dad?
One laugh out loud moment, when Kyle's dad finally comes around (and all it took was Kyle getting the shit kicked out of him at school) he decides to go to PFLAG with Kyle's mom.
Poor stumbling Kyle's dad.
Most reviews want to know “What have you learned while reading this book?” Well, nothing, really.
It just showed the facts more clearly - a lot of people dislike the homosexual community and, because of this, go out of their way to make them uncomfortable, with bashings or with lurid name calling.
I don’t understand it.I, for one, loved this book (as did my friend who let me borrow it).
It was a really sweet book, despite the curious looks I received from it while reading it in public.Seriously people, grow up.
And for those of you who understand that life is more than being gay or straight and want to read a good book, pick this up.
The book sends great messages about the importance of safe sex regardless of your sexual orientation, relationships without sex and sex without a relationship, HIV and AIDS, and the prejudice and abuse many young gay men experience from their peers and their communities.
Although not pornographic by any standard, it definitely made me uncomfortable to think about a young teen reading this book and picturing the sexual acts between the three boys.
