https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/526134.The_Language_of_Letting_Go
Are you a sucker in relationships? Do you say YES when you mean HELL NO? Do you give in too quickly, make concessions, or end up passive-agressively sucker punching someone psychologically because you're afraid if you tell the truth, stick up for yourself, or express your needs you won't have any friends or lovers?Read this book.
Reading date: Ongoing.I'm not much of a self-help type of person... but this one is an exception. This book is a journal, if you will, of daily thoughts. Schedule 15 minutes each morning to read a selection and write some notes about how it may affect your world and your life. You'll be surprised at the insights you have and the changes you can make in Your World.
This book is definitely a must read for everybody. In life we all experience set backs, trauma, or the unexpected and this book is a guide to help cope through these encounters.

This is the book that propelled me out of a depression many years ago.
A special friend encouraged me to write a response to each of the daily meditations, and I learned a lot about myself by the end of the first year, most importantly how to protect love from helplessness.
I have been blessed with four copies of this book.
Each time I stumble upon another copy of this book, I take it as a sign that it should be revisited.
And each of the hands I have put this book into are hands that I still hold.
Given to me by my future mother-in-law, I have found so much solace in this book. Suffering from anxiety and panic disorder, I find this book often can provide my relief in these times, in some crazy way. It's been a blessing with every passage. Not every passage applies to me, but I always take a lesson from each day's motivation.
This book has a thought, a meditation, for every day of the year.
I have been reading this every day for two years and I am a happier healthier person because of it.
It's okay to detach.
It's okay to be healthy and whole when a family member or friend isn't.
It's okay to be gentle with yourself.
It's okay to let things happen.
In fact, I guarantee that you will be a happier person if you will read it and even better, you will get the tools you need to stay that way for the rest of your life :)
This book was given to me during a very difficult time in my life.
My copy is tagged with countless page markers and is worn from reading it again and again.
The book has had such a huge impact on me that I have since bought it for at least a dozen people in the past few years.
Melody Beattie offers advice in a non-judgmental, non-preachy voice that resonates with true understanding.
Melody Beattie offers encouragement and hope while being honest and realistic about the challenges we face during difficult times.
This book is my God book, it never fails that the message is exactly what I need. I read it every day, try to do a little journaling about each meditation, and think on it while I water my plants and talk to and open my mind to listen to God. I first started reading this book in 1997, and find it to be just as helpful today as the first day I opened it. It is a great book for anyone, not just people in recovery.
It is wrong to put this book in the bookshelf "read", because it's permanent currently-reading book for me. It was recommended to me in a self-help group for depression and since then I try to read the daily meditation as often as I can. It gives me a lot of courage, self-confidence and inspiration for the daily struggle. Highly recommended.
Everyday there's a new entry. This book of daily affirmations, which I've been reading every morning for many years, often offers me the right thing I need to consider at the right time. Over the years, some of the ideas have sunk in, helping make my life more manageable.
I faithfully read this book everyday...it was given to me in early sobreity and it my daily handbook for life!
Good book to have by ones bedside, often will give one pause to relook at things in different ways.
Helpful to me in that this book provided for me expression that previously was not able to put together for myself. Reinforced for me some of the behaviours that I am incorporating into my life and reminded me of those to leave behind.I am grateful for this resource.

Not what I was expecting; I couldn't relate to quite a few of the entries because I don't have any addiction problems. But seemed like it would be a good book for people who do, and I think I'll keep it around for awhile since i find it enjoyable to read an entry or two every now and then.
Has been a daily read for years! Given to me by a friend...have scooped up editions when I see them at thrift stores or yard sales and give them away...great book! Love it!
I read this in the past. I started to re-read it. Then I moved away from the "impulse" to be working on this kind of thing. I kind of want to burn the damn collection of books related to this.
One to read and re-read and buy for your bookshelf!
Can't say enough good things about this book. Whether or not you or your loved ones are in a codependent relationship, this book has words of wisdom for everyone.
Always on Time!
Very helpful for us Codependent people. Day by day help.
I bought this book for myself in 1999.
I have read those daily meditations for many years and still will pick it up if I'm having a problem and find a related subject in the index and read that day's meditation.
Before I began reading this book, I didn't know what a personal boundary was.
What a relief it was to be able to say, "No" with no explanation and not feel guilty.
We can't choose our families, but when we become adults, we can choose who we want to be and how we want to navigate in the world.
These daily meditations are geared toward codependency, but in reading one a day for a year I found many concepts that I think would be applicable to anyone. It's all about releasing the need to control, owning your own power, not being a victim, and letting yourself enjoy life as it as and celebrating yourself as you are and will be. Good stuff!
Good set of daily meditations. It leans toward people who are in recovery - but if you think of recovery broadly, we're all in recovery. Recovering from feelings of self-doubt, negative self-talk, depending on others for our happiness, etc. These are good daily reminders of ways that we are growing and can grow.
Why are you feeling upset? Why are you feeling disappointed? Why do you get so pissed off? Why are you getting jealous? It's because you didn't know the language of letting go. What a wonderful and important book! Lovely!
I can't say enough positive things about this little book. The daily writings are just enough to get my mind back on track regarding all of those ingrained codependent tendencies. Highly recommended!
FABULOUS! ENLIGHTENING! WONDERFUL INSIGHTS!
This is one of my daily Bibles! The author is just so good on so many levels! Each day, she just knows and I am restored back to sanity. I think this is a great book to read every day!
Good read and uplifting
