https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189764.The_Civil_War
Still, it would have been nice to have the book more accessible to those of us who don't carry the maps in our heads.The reason why this is important is that even though this book is kind of an index tour of the Civil War, it still gets into a lot of detail - which general moved which army across which river is vital to understanding how the war progressed.
The Civil War is fundamental to how our nation became what it is, and as such it is an obsession for the United States.That's what this book really tries to understand - why, of all the wars that we have fought, are we so obsessed with this one?
Bruce Catton was a highly distinguished and respected Civil War historian, writing numerous books about the period.
This book is a condensed version of the War (weighing in at slightly over 300 pages after including three appendices), yet seemingly nothing was left out.
Yet, at the same time, he does not delve deeply into intricate battle maneuvers except where necessary, thus he does not spend seemingly endless pages reviewing battle after battle.
If a reader is looking for a relatively short yet compact depiction of the Civil War, choose Catton.
If one has the time for a much more in-depth review, choose McPherson.
Most notably was during the Battle of the Wilderness in 1864, which pitted Grant’s Army of the Potomac against Lee’s Army of Northern Virginia southwest of Washington, D.C. Lee chose to face Grant here because he knew his force was undermanned and felt the dense woods and thick underbrush would neutralize the Federal troop (and artillery) advantage.
Other examples of insurgent and counterinsurgent behavior and thoughts (I categorize insurgency two ways: 1) bringing symmetry to a lopsided conflict; 2) leverage the opposition’s populace to influence military and political maneuver) include: - Confederate General Johnston’s view of Sherman’s stalled advance in Atlanta.
This book provides a bird's-eye view of the war, with emphasis on broad-stroke explanations instead of minute details. (I will read Shelby Foote's trilogy for the full account.) With this approach the author is able to narrate the war as a comprehensible story, elucidating how one event leads to another and how they progress in a historical arch. The writing is superb making the book a pleasure to read.
Thus, this novel exemplifies the civil war; it’s causes, as well as its impact in the modern world.Bruce Catton has introduced Abraham Lincoln, a character who proved to have a significant role in the civil war.
Thus, Abraham Lincoln has had a huge impact on the civil war due to his achievements and influences, leaving a great legacy behind.The civil war is a novel that shares several historical and significant events in a very clear and precise manner.
Scholars interested in the civil war or its victims ,such as Abraham Lincoln, should read this enlightening novel.This novel has the capacity to imply other events into the one being presented.
On the one hand, the North wanted to ensure foreign powers would not interfere and it was harder for them to do so if the issue of slavery was perceived as the primary thing being fought over.
So in the end it was a self-serving calculation and the moral depravity of chattel slavery had little to do with it.2) The (accidental) death of stonewall jackson - perhaps one of the most talented Generals of his era - might have been by itself the difference between a divided U.S. and the U.S. we have today3) The extremist rhetoric preceding the Civil war is strikingly much like the political rhetoric leading up to these midterms elections in 2010.
Concise yet comprehensive history of the events leading to and including the entire Civil War. Catton's writing is clear and easy to follow and the book is so interesting that before you know it, you are almost finished!
Included within the entire text are sketches and photographs of key people, places and battles that enhance the written word greatly.
Although not the most comprehensive book on the subject, Catton is perfect for war buffs and the curious in equal measure.
If you are looking for a good overview of the war and the key persons involved that is fast-paced and enjoyable to read, this is it!
Someone told me this was Brad Birzer's favorite general history of the Civil War. I have not confirmed that, but I did find it an enjoyable, engaging, and overall helpful read.
Catton has clear prose, and while you might be tempted to disagree with some of his conclusions he is a careful and fair judge of a war continually being rewritten.
The middle chapters have a tad too much economic determinism in this for my tastes.
I especially enjoyed the latter chapters on the Army of the Tennessee and the War in the West, an area that I have largely overlooked til now.
There is a lot that happens in the Civil War. So, I guess I shouldn't have been surprised that this good, solid overview of the conflict does not go much into the details of the numerous battles - even Gettysburg. I appreciated that the book addresses nearly all aspects of the war: social, political, military, economic, etc. I bought this as an audio book - I think it will be a good one to go back and listen to again from time to time.
I enjoyed this book. It had the usual Generals and dates and locations. but it also had the deeper story. Such as the north was undergoing an industrial revolution, while the south was stuck in aristocracy and agriculture. This helped the north win the war.
Fascinating review of the Civil War...a must for any buff out there!
A very readable and concise account of the Civil War. Very well written.
Good book. Expands on This Hallowed Ground effectively with background issues although without quite the same level of dramatic narration
I personally didn’t really felt any connection with the characters since all of them were either military personnel congress or statesmen and other occupations which I certainly am not titled with and the general view and perspective of the time with such issues like racial segregation and economic hardship on that extent were the things I am not familiar with, The time depicts an America on division which some might say just like now but I believe the state of our or your in this sense disagreements are not in a scope to claim that they too are similar.I believe that I can’t really say that there was a particular chapter that I liked about the book but I might say that I liked that how the prelude to the civil war has been depicted with perspectives of sides and their preparation process.
Love a good historical book. Great detail,but not too many that it makes it for a boring read. Nice maps and timeline to refer to. Scattered pictures throughout to add to the experience.
The writing was excellent and fascinating. Unfortunately, the maps were small and difficult to understand. That's the problem with black and white maps in paperback books.
And yes, I realize this is Catton's "Reader's Digest" reduction of his own massive multi-volume work on the subject, but it's just what I wanted right now: a quick, pithy, clear, and well-reasoned survey of the main political, economic and technological issues, the battles and the personages of the war.
It's a highly recommendable template or jump-off point for subsequent immersion into the vast panorama of this event via more fulsome and detailed books.While many authors today require pages and pages of minutiae to establish context, Catton does the same, clearly, in one sentence.
In Bruce Catton's The Civil War, an objective history is presented.
While many historians show the Civil War from just one side, Catton remains objective, asserting from the beginning that men on both sides fought with valor.
Throughout the entirety, Bruce Catton shows that those who dare great things are often those remembered in the history books.
However, those with no knowledge of the Civil War would likely be confused by this book, as Catton assumes his readers have at least basic historical knowledge on the Civil War. Overall, this book is a great read which I highly recommend!
I believe this text would be helpful to someone who has been away from the topic of the Civil War for a long time (as I was) and needs a refresher course, or for someone who has an interest in the war, has gotten into it a little, but wants to get a nice overview so they can appreciate their later explorations on the topic.
Mr. Catton makes it very obvious that the right side won, and that the real tragedy of the Civil War was that the whole thing could have been avoided.The book is arranged chronologically and explores the eastern and western theaters of the war, as well as the political and home front aspects.
While the major, and some minor, battles are described in some detail, I must confess that the absence of maps for reference made these hard to follow, and I found my mind wandering (oops,s not good when you're driving but I digress..)Actually, the chapters I liked the best were those describing the average soldier's background and daily life (not an easy one), medical conditions (horrible), disease (which killed more than bullets) and personalities.
Other chapters on the economic conditions and maneuvering were also very interesting.
So, when I get around to reading the books I have, I'll letcha now if that was true.
It's a pre-Civil-Rights era history of the U.S. Civil War for a mainstream audience: Topics such as abolitionism, John Brown, black regiments in the Union Army, and the train of refugee slaves following Sherman's army -- they're not handled with even the minimum of respect commonly found in treatment of these topics today.That said, this book is a vivid account of the military side of the war.
I haven't really found my way into the military strategy rabbit hole of the Civil War fandom, so this book was a helpful introduction to that side of the story.
A well-renowned book that provides a solid foundational look at this most devastating conflict, one that snatched the lives of around 620,000 men in uniform (to put that in perspective, U.S casualties of BOTH World Wars 1 & 2 numbered around 517,000) brought about unprecedented industrial progress, and of course sounded the death knell on that most unpalatable of institutions - chattel slavery.This also dispels some of the common myths around the Civil War, that Lincoln's main impetus for war was to end slavery (it was to restore the Union - by whatever means necessary), that the confederates were only a simple, bunch of evil racists organised into a large mob.
It can't be easy to write a book summarizing the entire American Civil War, but Catton did a commendable job with this one.
Catton's criticism of some decisions is evident in his writing, but he also makes it clear that no one involved had an easy job or knew what they were embarking on.
The book includes photographs of battlefields, people, and also pictures of maps which help keep track of the campaigns.I recommend this book to anyone looking for a short introduction to the American Civil War. Readers who are already very familiar with the war may find this book lacking in any new material, but I would think it is ideal for a beginner's guide to the time period.
As a Swede/European, I never had the opportunity in school to dive deep into the American Civil War, because there's only so much time in history class and there's a lot of history to wade through.
I asked around and got two recommendations.
The first and almost unanimous recommendation was this one.
The Civil War by Bruce Catton.
There were a few things I might delve further into later on, but for now, this book thoroughly quenched my American Civil War thirst.
Catton is a great narrator and he presents a very measured and balanced account of the war, not really favoring any side and pointing out what was sensible or not on both sides.
Well-written short (~280 pages) introduction to the Civil War, hits on all the important points with enough supporting detail.
Obviously won't give you the detail that Battle Cry of Freedom or Foote's 3-volume opus will, but its succinctness makes it easier to track the concurrent happenings of the war (it's tough to remember what Grant's army had done last after 100 pages of reading what's happening in Virginia).
Ultimately, though, if you have any significant interest in the Civil War the book will leave you wanting much more.
Wanting to get a nice, easy, and quick summary of The Civil War without getting bogged down in the minutiae details, I chose to read Catton's book.
Somehow, I got most of what I wanted, but the military details were still unclear to me and needed to be cleaned up more.
I actually read from an old printed book which contained a lot of pictures which I liked.
Somehow, I thought the pictures could be more clear.
All in all, The Civil War gave me everything I wanted to learn from one book for a history lesson, so I could move on.
I picked it up from the Ontario airport when I was leaving California for the last time.
I figured it's the civil war, I'm moving to Virginia, it makes sense.
The book was really interesting, it just read really slowly because it too often got bogged down with troop movements and general's locations.
It definitely was very true to both sides of the war, not favoring south or north.
Both armies, you learn, made fantastic blunders and both we're equally cruel to the innocent public at times.
I definitely want to go check out civil sites after reading this book.
There’s so much civil war history out in this part of the country.
And right here in DC there’s enough to keep the most avid civil war buff occupied for weeks.
Some people ignore the history, others get so absorbed with it that they dress up as soldiers and reenact battles.
I just wanted to review the civil war and understand its chronology and the setting of the various battles a bit more thorougly.
It’s a general history of the war and it is very well written.
Well written.
I started reading this book on April 12 to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the first shots fired on Fort Sumter.
However, in a way it is nice to have the entire war covered in one relatively short book so as to develop a good sense of the overall sweep of the war and keep track of what happened in different places at more or less the same time.I have been a fan of Bruce Catton’s writing style for years and enjoyed his smooth, pretty prose here as well.The edition I read included many fascinating pictures, but a disappointing lack of maps.
The book provides an engaging account of the war and of other key aspects of the American Civil War era.
It is void of specific details, or of extended accounts of any one issue or battle.
I think James McPherson's "Battle Cry of Freedom" is the same book as Catton's - but it is a better book, because it goes into much greater detail.
- I suspect that if I had not already read a tremendous amount about the Civil War that I would appreciate Catton's book more than I do.
Still, it was an enjoyable read.
