https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13369893-the-end-of-the-party
and the story is basically the one twin trying to get out of having to go to this party where there is going to be hide-and-seek in the dark, to no avail, and the party, and the result.did you know that i am also scared of the dark?
and so the idea of going to a party and playing hide-and-seek in the dark is very shuddery to me.
seriously - any of you people try to force me into playing hide-and-seek in the dark, i'm taking you down with me.
and if you are twins, you better watch out twice.come to my blog!
Ironically, I have several Graham Greene novels on my on deck list, but this is the first of his work that I have actually read thanks to Wendy Darling whose wonderful review led me to this.
Two identical twins, Francis and Peter, brought to the apex of apprehension at the prospect of a birthday party.
Francis counts the minutes until the party, desperate to find an escape clause, while Peter suffers the constricting feeling of powerlessness to protect his younger brother.
The only way...the only way that this story works is for you to feel and understand how deeply connected Francis and Peter are to one another.
I didn't expect to find anything special when I opened the anthology of required reading, but I found myself absolutely mesmerized by the dynamic between the two brothers as well as the casual scornfulness of the girls in their class.
The idea that a person could be so overwhelmed by his own fear was absolutely horrifying and fascinating to me, and I've never been able to forget the terrible sadness and pity I felt for the boys, and for all children really, after I read the last line.If you enjoy fiction about the power of suggestion that's reminiscent of Edgar Allen Poe (minus the baroqueness), this is an exceptionally well-written short story that will take you just a matter of minutes to read.
Free here: http://www.classicshorts.com/stories/...Thank you to Wendy, Bonnie, Stephen and everyone else who has recently read and recommended this short story. I honestly don't read many short stories, and wouldn't have found this on my own.To everyone else: You won't regret taking 10 minutes out of your day to read this.
Rating: 4* of fiveThe Story Synopsis: A birthday party attended by twins Peter and Francis Morton ends in tragedy.My Review: From the mind of 9-year-old Francis Morton:"Girls were like that.
They slunk like cats on padded claws."Francis is limned in a few carelessly artful sentences:"As a twin he was in many ways an only child.
No one listens to him in Francis Morton's world, except his older-by-minutes twin Peter.
The bond between twins is credibly portrayed, at least to the eyes of what amounts to an only child.
Visit my blog!I read the occasional short story but I can’t for the life of me remember the last one that really stuck with me.
This was the most brilliantly written short story I think I have ever had the pleasure of reading.
I have several Graham Greene novels on my plan-to-read-someday list but I do believe those will be moved up the list; I was blown away by the power of his writing in this extremely short story.
They’ll make me hide in the dark, and I’m afraid of the dark.
I’ll scream and scream and scream.”Regardless, the twins still end up attending.
~The End of the Party, Graham Greene I don't read a lot of short stories; it's not a format that appeals to me usually.
However, when a story finds me that is so exceptionally good and unforgettable, so fine and filled with jagged teeth, there is no one on this green earth who will become a bigger pimp for said story.
...Graham Greene's "The End of the Party" is one of those stories.
Secondly, if I'm going to go ga-ga over a short story, there's a 99.9% chance it will have a twist ending, an ending that makes your skin crawl, or heart pound, or stomach drop down to the floor.
I love seeing books (or in this case, stories) spread like this, each person's enjoyment leading to another and another.
I've only read one other Graham Greene book, 'Travels with My Aunt' and I very much disliked it.
If that book had been written like this story, I'd have loved it.
I have a bit of a fascination with stories about twin connections, especially when one sibling is troubled and the other is not--or at least not in the same way.
'The End of the Party' reminded me a bit of my all time favorite short story, 'All Summer In A Day' by Ray Bradbury.
For being so short, this book packs a punch.
http://www.classicshorts.com/stories/... free online. I love it when I find something I didn't know about by a favourite author and it's free, online. Instant gratification. This is an excellent and creepy story. I'm very hard to creep out as I don't give much credence to ghosts, the paranormal or things that go creak in the night. But Graham Greene is a magical writer and in his hands words do what he wants them to, which is the mark of the sort of author who people will enjoy a hundred years hence as much as they did over 70 years ago.
In this case, you may also notice that your heart is still pounding as your mind struggles to digest the last of it.Identical twins can have shared secrets, and parallel thoughts, that most of us can only glimpse through stories like this one.
But children are still developing the circuitry and the techniques for doing this, and they may not be so lucky.In this masterfully written tale, one identical twin can read the other’s thoughts, and can understand the desperation to avoid a situation that will expose a secret fear, without feeling that fear himself.
The End of the PartyWritten by: Graham GreeneThe End of the PartyMajor Characters: Peter Morton Francis Morton Mrs. Henne-Falcon Joyce Mabel WarrenPeter and Francis are identical twins.
This is how close they were.Unlike Peter, Francis was not looking forward to attending the birthday party that would be hosted by Mrs. Henne-Falcon, for Colin Henne-Falcon.
Nothing seem to work and Francis decides to go to the party hoping that he can avoid playing hide and seek, in the dark.
Being a concerned brother Peter tries to think of where Francis would hide so that he can go to him.
Weird, creepy little story.... Short story with impact. I intend to read more Greene this year.
A moving short story about twin brothers who attend a birthday that ends in tragedy.
Many people have focused on the relationship between the twins in their reviews but for me this story was more about childhood anxieties.
I also remember taking a deep breath and doing what the adults wanted anyway, as Francis did.Greene has captured the feeling of childhood fears with a realism that left my adult self a little more anxious than usual.
This story plays out as these scenarios often play out in many a fearful child's imagination which makes the ending even more chilling.Can be read free online here.
Thanks to Fairy Princess SockieP for reviewing this short story. In her review she included a link and off to read it I went.This is a chilling short story that delivers a sharp, memorable punch. I loved it! You can find it here:http://www.classicshorts.com/stories/...
The discussions havered around the friends who are now too busy in their lives to remain in contact.
I am writing all this because this is what was going through my mind when I read this story.
I was thinking about the part when few friends became my whole day and life and thinking about parting from them was very difficult.
Once we had faced our fears and difficulties together but now we live a life of indifference.
This story is about two twins, one of whom has an extreme fear of darkness.
Aren't we better off left alone to face the fears of our life.

The short story was in sink with my emotions today. I could feel the boy's fear as it was mine, like I was his brother. I am not afraid of the dark but I have other fears creeping in at times.
Francis is utterly afraid of the dark and dreads at the thought of going to the party.Without giving too much away, the story moves along at a cracking pace, while showing how ignorant adults can be about children's phobias and anxieties, the idea of relying upon God and feeling let down....until you reach the very end.The ending was truly shocking...the idea of fear being a constant haunting presence.N.B: You can read it for free here.
Weird short story.
I guess I am in the minority here but I just wasn't fascinated by this at all.
I did not connect to either of the brothers and as much as most of us can be scared of the dark, I never got the sense of why or exactly how scared of the dark one of the brothers was for me to sympathize with them.
Gets two stars cause it wasn't exactly a waste of my time ( it's very short) and I'd be a jerk to give it one star after it was free.
A free read here: http://www.classicshorts.com/stories/...Well written, I suppose, but I never really connected with the characters & expected the ending far too early for it to hold any shock value, unfortunately. (view spoiler)[ I had a problem with the one way, twin communication that enabled the ending & the constant fear that Francis lived in. Neither felt all that 'real' to me. (hide spoiler)]
Graham Greene could write anything and I would be head over heels in love with his short stories. This one is no exception.
Wow.That gave me chills.
The End of the Party explores the interesting dynamic of the existing symbiosis between twin brothers, Francis and Peter, told by exploring their fears.
Upon attending a children's party, Francis is filled with palpable dread of a particular party-favorite pastime that he knows he'll be forced to participate in despite not wanting to.
(view spoiler)[It makes me sad that their end was tragic (hide spoiler)].I've been paralyzed myself with fear--both my own and those of loved ones--and could feel so clearly the dread each brother was trying to deal with.
Horrifying, sad, realistic, graphic. Childhood games sometimes become the witness of the biggest tragedy of life, a lesson one might have better stayed without. Reminded me strongly of Anita Desai's 'Games At Twilight', another amazing insight into child psychology and its absolute capture. While Desai's is less tragic and much more clear in picture depiction, automatically and simultaneously amazing the reader and pulling him or her into emphatic nodding, this one lacks a tad bit somewhere, yet builds itself enough to lend credence.
The ending stops you right where you are, and it feels exactly like a sudden flash of light after you've been sitting in the dark. Greene conveys the atmosphere very effectively and the fear of the dark is palpable. It's amazing what is achieved with so few words. All short stories should be like this, and more importantly, all those who hate short stories should find stories like these to understand their appeal.
After reading the reviews on this story I see that people are affected by the touching twin connection or the very real fears of a child, but what affected me the most is the inability for the adult to understand the severity of the fear and to force them to confront it against their will and at the risk of death.
Amazing what an author can do in so few words (Word Count: 3,549).
It's nothing more than a story of a children's game of hide and seek.
It's such a wonderful portrayal of young boys' psyches and their responses to fear and empathy.
Vonnegut wrote “Many people need desperately to receive this message: 'I feel and think much as you do, care about many of the things you care about, although most people do not care about them.
This story had a creepy Sixth Sense feel to it.
This short story (and short it truly is) uses only a few words, but the words the author chooses not only had a profound effect on me, the reader, but I also connected with the character so easily that his fear seemed so real and palpable, that I too felt it.
It's stories such as this one that I have to thank goodreads for becaus had I not seen a friend's review over it, I may have never found it!
"He had not heard her coming.
Girls were like that.
Their shoes never squeaked.
No boards whined under the tread.
They slunk like cats on padded claws.""It was January the fifth."well, that would be the right date to read this amazing short story, but it's not the best way to start valentine's...
"the end of the party" is so sad, so scary, so desperate, and so engrossing.
it's intriguing how much you can express in so few words.
see, it doesn't take a bazillion pages for a story to be epic.the ending came with a bang.
As a twin, I found this profoundly moving. A very short read, but worth searching out.
