https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321545.A_Morbid_Taste_for_Bones
Great historical mystery series. Since this info was hard for me to find, below is a list of the Cadfael novels in order of publication:A Morbid Taste for BonesOne Corpse Too ManyMonk's HoodSt. Peter's FairThe Leper of St. GilesThe Virgin in the IceThe Sanctuary SparrowThe Devil's NoviceDead Man's RansomThe Pilgrim of HateAn Excellent MysteryThe Raven in the ForegateThe Rose RentThe Hermit of Eyton ForestThe Confession of Brother HaluinThe Heretic's ApprenticeA Rare BenedectineThe Potter's FieldThe Summer of the DanesThe Holy ThiefBrother Cadfael's Penance
A medieval-time, Welsh-born man, Cadfael now carries out his monastic duties at Shrewsbury Abbey in England.
Prior Robert bands together a small group of his monks to carry out his mission, Brother Cadfael among them due to his Welsh background.
Upon their arrival at Gwytherin, the monks quickly realize that despite the fact the saint’s grave has been neglected, the villagers are not necessarily keen to give her up to a group of strangers.
"There are women as strong as any of us, and as able."When a leading citizen of this quaint Welsh village turns up dead, Cadfael will put to use his sleuthing skills to ensure that justice is served.
(Before that, the only historical mysteries were Sherlock Holmes pastiches.) The appeal of the series comes mainly from the character of Cadfael himself --wise, shrewd, caring, a bit mischievous, and endued with a gentle, life-affirming faith much like Pargeter's own.
(Writers, she once said, need to depict evil; but for them "to take pleasure in evil is mortal sin.")Here, the Welsh-born Cadfael finds himself brought along as an interpreter on his prior's expedition into Wales to extract the bones of a saint (venerated as holy relics) from the unwilling congregation of the little country parish where she's buried.
Most of the time I just don’t care about ‘whodunit’.
This leaves the magnetism of the detective to carry the story, which recently just hasn’t been enough.For people who love mysteries though, I think you will love this.
She uses dialogue to bring her characters to life, and it’s great.
Everybody has a different agenda and a different motive, and Cadfael is able to work this out quite clearly and succinctly.Maybe someday I will be in the mood to read another Cadfael book, but I think I’m going to skip historical mysteries for a while.
In my opinion, Peters transplants the murder mystery genre into medieval times extremely well.
She gives Brother Cadfael common sense and logic to work with, plus a good dose of human psychology.
How he deals with the Church hierarchy and the other Brothers feels very real and is often amusing.The action begins slowly—the reader must be patient as Peters builds the story towards the murder, but after that, the action is unabated until the final resolution.
This story is quite different from the forensic-based murder mysteries that crowd today’s shelves, but that very difference recommends it.
The first of the Brother Cadfael novels by Ellis Peters, which I have just discovered is a pseudonym for Edith Pargeter, a Welsh woman by birth and a historian by nature.
I would not have suspected that these stories were written by a woman because she captures the brothers of the Shrewsbury Abbey, a Medieval enclave of male figures, perfectly, From the stuffy, overblown Prior Robert to Brother Cadfael himself, every character is believable and interesting.
Of course, in reading this, I felt I already knew Cadfael and had his face set in my mind.
$1.99 Kindle sale, today (Dec. 13, 2017) only. Some of my GR friends love this medieval mystery series, so I think I'm going to give it a shot.
Marvelous story. You have to read it to find out exactly what happens. A fun spoof on religion. The historical detail, the characters, and the humor are enchanting. By the end I loved Brother Cadfael and all the villagers of Gwytherin, Wales. An utterly charming tale and funny too!
This was a very satisfying re-read for me, and I’ll be revisiting this series again in the new year.
This visit to a Welsh kingdom to acquire the remains of a saint for Shrewsbury Abbey stirs up unforeseen conflicts and a murder, and we are introduced to several wonderful Welsh characters, along with Cadfael’s English fellow religious, some truly good, some cynically manipulative of the faith of others.I love reading novels set in a much more slow-paced time - although I don’t yearn to live in a time before germ theory, women’s suffrage and civil rights, I do find the portrayal of such a simpler time peaceful and relaxing.
Δεν θυμάμαι πολλά από το 1994 που το διάβασα, είναι η αλήθεια. Σίγουρα πάντως δεν ήταν κάτι σπουδαίο. Πρέπει να αρχίσω να μοιράζω βιβλία, μου φαίνεται.
My first by this author introducing Brother Cadfael who's powers of observation and deduction ensure that he's always a part of the action and at times a little above the law. I enjoyed his character, he has a bit of a history, is not exactly pious and is a bit cheeky.
I read some of the Brother Cadfael books years ago & found them just ok.
May have been my age or (more likely) that this is a series that needs to be read in order.
Clearly there is more to the good brother than his skills as a herbalist!
No doubt more will be revealed about his past in later books.I don't know anything about 12th century Wales or England, but certainly Peters had given the narrative & dialogue a very authentic feel.
& monastery politics feels like modern office or school staffroom politics & gave me a sly chuckle!The next one in the series 
kratko, zanimljivo, na momente malo suhoparno, no vrlo dobro djelce. pogotovu kad zamišljaš likove iz serije.
2.0 to 2.5 stars. I picked this book up after really enjoying Dissolution by C. J. Sansom and wanting to try another historical mystery. While well written, I found this book to be fairly dull and the main character not nearly as interesting as Sansom's Matthew Shardlake. Not horrible by any means, just not great.
Suspicion immediately follows on one of his most trusted servants who wished to marry the lords daughter against his wishes but Cadfael is sure something and someone else is behind the killing.This is an excellent, well written traditional whodunnit with a unique setting and wonderful characters.
Peters background as a historical writer is very much in evidence, she knows her stuff and the England she writes about is a fascinating, beautiful, and sometimes brutal place.Cadfael is a terrific character.
Peters doesn't go into a ton of detail in this book but you get the sense that Cadfael is not necessarily proud of all the decisions he's made in his life.
Having been one of the only English speaking persons in the world to have never read any of the books or watched any of the tv shows I have had A Morbid Taste For Bones on my radar for a goodling amount of time.
It became one of my all time favourite historical fiction books.It was this lingering taste of the author's work that made me clear the schedule this month and finally read the first Cadfael.
But next to the Classicist nature of A Bloody Field by Shrewsbury, I am afeared A Morbid Taste For Bones presents like the poor, country cousin.
Having enjoyed the TV series (starring Derek Jacobi as Cadfael), I've long wanted to read the books on which they were based.
This first book in the series was a treat.
Peters has an easy writing style, and the story was intriguing and kept my interest, even though having seen its TV twin I knew how it would play out.
Brother Cadfael is a wonderful leading character.
I am looking forward to seeing his arc through the next 20 novels.Altogether a strong start to what should be a wonderful foray into Brother Cadfael's monastic sleuthing world.
But the villagers of Gwytherin are not uniformly keen on the idea of losing their beloved saint.
But Brother Cadfael recognizes that the murder was done by a human, and though he is an outsider, he begins to investigate.I’ve heard about this series set in 12th century England for some years, and always wanted to try them.
Granted, as the first in the series, Peters does have to spend more time in establishing the characters and setting, but I like my mysteries – even the cozy mysteries - to move along at a brisk pace.I really liked Brother Cadfael as a central character, however.

This is at its core a whodunnit however what sets it apart is the setting - 12 century in and around Shrewsbury.
Now The first thing that I want to say is that this book (and in fact the whole series being written between the mid 70s and mid 90s) was ground breaking as no one had really broken the historical fiction genre and certainly not mixing it with the crime genre as well.
However Ellis Peters did so and repeatedly.
I really enjoyed the Brother Cadfael series, except for the very last book. My favorite is Virgin in the Ice.
4 stars
A classic clerical cozy with intriguing characters, an engaging puzzle, no gory violence or explicit sex, and no over-emphasis on romance
That is daunting because I have gathered over twenty of Ellis Peters' prolific novels!
I like the characters and originality of their attributes, setting, and era but positively winced over such indulgent writing: the most important aspect for me.
I want to run shrieking over little else, than encountering the word "gently" beaten to death.
Writing does improve, sometimes from book to book.
The quest and threads running amuck when plans faltered, were creatively conceived.
There is something worth reading.
I am willing to see if Ellis's verbose, slow style whipped into shape.
I liked the secondary characters best and hope they reappear.
In a weird way, this book is pure nostalgia.I never read this book before, but my mother used to have the entire collection and in my memories it seems like she was constantly reading one of them while i was a kid (which is probably not really true, but you know how memories work!
they are alway slightly distorting the truth).I saw this book a little while ago in the library and i just had to read it now.It is a nice, quick and enjoyable read.
3.75 stars.
I really enjoyed the first in this Brother Cadfael series, and look forward to continuing with it.
There is a lot to like about Brother Cadfael, I love the setting, and am slowly learning about medieval history, which is great.
I also like a series in which religion figures prominently and positively, and people try to be good to one another, and show real remorse when committing a wrong.
I look forward to getting to know Brother C and the rest of his order in this lengthy series by Ellis Peters.
A fun story featuring a medieval monk with a past. I really enjoyed this visit of Olde England, the myths, the travel. The villagers of Gwytherin are a wonderful group. There's not much I can say without giving away a mystery. The adventures of Father Cadfael and the others is a fun, human, warm story of murder, friendship, faith, hope, truth.
Interesting book set back in 1145 AD, about a Benedictine Brother who solves mysteries.
Is short, barely 200 pages, but I found it a slow and tedious book to read.
This is the first of 20 books in the series and so obviously it is a popular series.
The plot is interesting enough, as well as the solving who killed the one individual in the book, but again it was just a slow read for me.
I may try one more in the series to see if they get better or whether being more familiar with the characters I will enjoy it more.
Prior Robert wants to remove Saint Winifred's bones from a Welsh village to the monastery. Someone opposed to the plan is found dead. Brother Cadfael, former Crusader turned monk, suspects a fellow monk's responsibility for the murder and investigates. The author often uses medieval vocabulary, appropriate to the setting, which slows one's speed, but it is worth the reader's effort.
Review: https://litexplore.com/2018/02/03/rev...
