https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50549.The_Writing_of_Fiction
One reason I love reading books is because of the language.
In fact, most students of literature are most probably already familiar with theories regarding writing fiction.
This might make the reading a bit annoying because one does not know how to process the information.
Here is the writer who is reflecting her own experience of reading and writing.
Literary critics could be of many kinds and so are their theories about writing fiction.
However, when it comes to good writers reflecting on their craft, they invariably sound far more convincing than those who only do 'criticism.'It is one of those books one can reread.
There are definite limitations to her explorations of this subject matter, and areas where I strongly disagreed with her value judgements, which she inevitably laid down as objective fact, rather than her personal preferences.The essay on Marcel Proust was another low point, although effective in one way: I have a greatly reduced interest in reading his work, based on Wharton's descriptions.
Much of it relies on applying one's skills in the area to which they are best suited - not overwriting or overextending one's capabilities - and ensuring sufficient time, patience, and attention is given to the development of the work.This collection is not Wharton's best material, but it provides sufficient food for thought, as well as an interesting window into a specific era in time.
It would be a good thing for letters if the perilous appeal of popularity were oftener met in the spirit of the New England shop-keeper who, finding a certain penknife in great demand, did not stock that kind the following year because, as he said, too many people came bothering him about it.Later: Weaving in a thread; the last chapter in this book is about Proust, and his way of showing the passage of time.
Characters whose tasks have not been provided for them in advance are likely to present as embarrassing problems as other types of the unemployed.”And, finally, on the one aspect of literature that makes a great novelist:“Out of all the flux of judgments and theories which have darkened counsel in respect of novel-writing, one stable fact seems always to emerge; the quality the greatest novelists have always had in common is that of making their people live.” If you're a fiction writer or an Edith Wharton fan, you may be interested in this craft-based analysis of The House of Mirth: http://weedlit.blogspot.com/2015/02/a...
She begins with a general discussion on the writing of fiction and then moves to several essays on short stories, more essays on constructing a novel, a good discussion on character and situation and concludes with a section on Marcel Proust.I'm not going to cover all of the points in these essays.
Rather I'd like to share some of the highlights I found interesting, plus share some quotes from the book so you will have a little taste for her writing.I found her discussion of the difference between the short story and novels to be most interesting.
I've only read Wharton, Edith. "The Vice of Reading." It's brilliant.
You're doing it wrong.You've been doing it so wrong for so long that you don't even recognize what it is that you're doing, you haven't taken an historical step back to look at the hundreds of years of your male ancestors committing this crime of letters against women of letters, of creating the conditions where women wrote (and continue to write) their romances under male pen names, of telling important women writers the impropriety of writing on subjects like sex, like slavery, like anything having to do with that third rail of when and how potential procreation happens unless it happens in literature on your terms, and, when it doesn't, of denigrating same as "chick lit", or "romance", or any other number of eye-rolling euphemisms to say what you really mean: this book isn't for me, and I'm a guy, therefore it isn't "serious", and therefore, it isn't "art".
He descubierto que la autora publicó estos dos ensayos breves con unas ideas muy depuradas de cómo hacer un buen relato o cuento.
Pone el acento en el efecto logrado por James y Scott en dos relatos de misterio , "Otra vuelta de tuerca" y "Wandering Willy".Habla de la parte técnica -qué hace un buen relato, reglas para un buen tema y la forma- y reflexiona sobre dónde se fracasa.
Recordemos que tiene 63 aňos y una larga experiencia publicando, además de como lectora y parece que también como revisora de textos.Su lección sobre la originalidad podría resumirse en:-Para ser original hay que leer a los demás.
I expected to love this, but ended up speeding through it. Too verbose and full of itself. So surprised as I usually love her work.

Verbose, stilted, comprised mostly of sentences twice their needful length, and assuming on the part of the reader a ready familiarity with the works of Balzac, Tolstoy, Eliot, Thackeray, and Austen, reading On the Writing of Fiction felt like wading through sandy shallows.
If Wharton's style were not so overwrought I would advise reading this book in a single sitting, and would expect you to find it very helpful indeed.
If you cannot (and I could not), perhaps reading a paper summarizing her arguments would be more fruitful.
She has chapters that focus on the short story, writing novels, discussing novels that focus on character versus situation , and one on the writer, Marcel Proust.
If you read it, I would keep a notebook at hand to jot down the titles she mentions as exemplary examples of what she thinks is the best of English and continental authors.
I mentioned to one of the English teachers at my school that I was reading this and he commented that he considers it one of the best books on writing that he had read.
Like the writing books of other great novelists and writers — John Gardner, E M Forster, Margaret Atwood... — this book captures the imagination and not just the mind of any writer. Also don't miss Roxane Gay's review in HTMLgiant.
This was really homey. I mean, it just read as though you were having a conversation with Edith Wharton. I borrowed this book from my library, but I'd really want to own it, just so I can return to it again and again. It is, I think, the most welcoming introduction to the craft of writing I have ever read.
Never has a book hit my desire to write than Edith's. My daughter and I took a book tour of Massachusetts and visiting her home where she wrote was a delight peeking at behind-the-scenes of a woman's life. On almost every page I have thoughts scribbled but I know every time I come back to visit her words I will grow another 2 inches.
Not that many books on writing out there by writers of Wharton's stature--she's one of the all-time greats, in my opinion. And the basic message that I took from this book was that what separates good writing from great writing isn't a matter of style or technique--it's the quality of thought that goes into it.
¡Si es que ya lo dice el propio editor! «Unos principios no suficientes» para comprender la creación de la obra literaria. No, no son suficientes. Apenas se adivina la capacidad crítica de Wharton. No hay nada que me moleste más que un libreto construido a través de conferencias transcritas o retazos de artículos sueltos. Demasiado corto, demasiado insuficiente.
This is the book for all writers of fiction.
http://htmlgiant.com/craft-notes/clas...
Lots of good pointers for writers.
This book confirmed my belief in Edith Wharton's genius. And persuaded me to give up the hope of writing fiction.
