https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54332.Hitler_s_Table_Talk_1941_1944
"At the end of four years, when I am up for reelection as Führer in 1947, I guarantee you that I will get 95 percent of the Jewish vote. I promise you. In fact, why be modest. I will get 100%. I know now that they will both vote for me."______________________This just in: the Goodreads recommendation engine has decided I'm a neo-Nazi. Okay, okay, I guess it's all my fault really...______________________Alright Goodreads, I get the point. I've already apologised. There's no need to rub it in.
Considering the individual this book chronicles, I would not be entirely surprised if most did not approach it with an objective mind.
Dealing with an individual like Hitler, objectivity in analyzing everything this book delivers is a Herculean task.This book showcases a man who had a solid grasp on many subjects.
Most interesting, Hitler makes a few predictions in this book that would ultimately come to pass.
Disturbing how these minds think similarly.In all, I was quite enthralled with this book, and it is quite the source for anyone interested in studying this man.
I read through this very quickly, mainly looking for Hitler's religious views.
Even though the transcription and translation may have been filtered and Hitler was conscious he was being recorded, I think a few conclusions can be gleaned.
Hitler believed in God and in Jesus.
He did not like the Catholic Church nor the Russion Orthodox Church.
But, the idea that he was an atheist is contradicted by these transcriptions.
He believed Jesus was Aryan, not Jewish, and that he was the right-hand of God, equal with Jesus, and was taking over where Jesus left off.
Para ler e reler. Imensa importancia historica
A diferencia de lo que muchos podrían pensar (basados sobre todo en la historia hollywoodense), el libro muestra a Hitler como una persona, con cosas buenas y malas, con opiniones de toda índole en una gran variedad de temas, virtudes y defectos.
Por suerte, en méxico no es un delito hacer apología del nazismo o negar el holocausto, por lo mismo, no tengo problema en señalar que no pocas, sino muchísimas opiniones y sentimientos expresados por Hitler harían ver a las democracias modernas occidentales como lo que son, una enorme esta y simulación, por poner puntos importantes y recurrentes:1.
I'm finding the introduction by Hugh T Roper very sus.Why do I nee to be first told what a faulty individual Hitler was. Is it not sufficient to just red what they say he said.Fascinating in a weird way, but after that somewhat odd intro I'd like to have some confidence in the translation
mainly associates with hitler
A collection of dialogues between Hitler and his dinner guests, taken down shorthand and transcribed between 1941 and 1944, with the intention of being later read by historians after the Third Reich had triumphed over the world.
I think Hitler meant for this to be read as a guide like his first work "Mein Kampf".
He comes off as a man who truly believes that he's a genius and who's opinion on anything, no matter what it is, is right and that's the way it is.
Just to see what kind of man Hitler was, and what type of mindset it took to do all the things he did.
Often, the English-descriptors focus on minor points that seemed important or sensational at the time.H.R. Trevor-Roper’s introduction speaks to the dangers of relying heavily on off-the-cuff conversation to draw “insights” about a historical personality.
For example, at one point Hitler states that after the war he will rename Berlin “Germania,” although so far as I know no steps were taken in this direction and even from this source he seems to forget about it after a few days.
Forget the painful hyperbole and glacial tempo of Mein Kampf, in the Table Talks it feels as if one joins Hitler at a meal to chat about whatever he finds interesting.
Which would of course be painful and interesting.
He likes to speculate about future technologies, about what the world will be like when Germany has conquered Russia and killed of all the slavs, except those who would be turned into a subjugated race of slaves.
(The Jews are a rounding error in comparison to the Slavs Nazism killed and aspired to kill)Then we have interesting pieces of ideology.
Highly readable.If anyone wants to make an opinion about Hitler, I would say he should read this boo
No Masks On During DinnerThe best way to know a person is to listen to him when he is eating, people lower their masks when they eat. Anybody who has any idea that Hitler was a genius of some sorts or was wise at all needs to read this book, you will see the ravings of a crazy man.
The only good thing about this book for which i searched a lot (in a vain hope that this would give me some glimpses in to how the inner circle worked and thoughts)is the preface written in some detail by H.R. Trevor-Roper . Otherwise honestly don't bother wasting bucks on this one. Crap!!!
Very interesting and will give the student of history or politics a better understanding of Hitler's thought and opinions. It's perhaps an even better view than My Struggle, which was meant for a general audience and also was filtered through Rudolf Hess.
Read this book for some research I was doing for my own book. Its not a page turner, nor is it intended to be. I am happy this book is out there so that researchers can get inside the head of this man. I found the answers I needed.
very interesting insight into Hitler's personal comments but many have disputed it's veracity or the veracity of the original French translation.Anyone sharing a link to the original german text will be greatly appreciated.
This book is tedious to read. Some of hilter's thoughts are interesting and some horrifying, but the slog is too slow to do it all in one setting.
The pdf, of course. Wish I had the print version.
Not actively reading at this time, to be finished later.
An academic chronicle of dinner conversations recorded at the time.
really interesting, all taken from the wolf's lair during the war.
Informative but disturbing.
