https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6551.Herzog
I can no longer have you on my favorite authors list.
One of my favorites.
Just like songs with melodies I can easily whistle, I need books with plots where things happen.
I'm just not smart enough to be satisfied with the philosophy laden interior monologues that comprise most of this book (416 pages, for chrissakes!) I mean I can't make heads or tails of this passage:Whereas a man like me has shown the arbitrary withdrawal of proud subjectivity from the collective and historical progress of mankind.
I'm obviously not wise enough for this book.
Herzog is one of Bellow's most enduring characters and this is one of his best books.
When not screwing up his life, his letters to people real, dead and imaginary kept me laughing the entire time.
I loved how despite everything, there is a feeling of exuberance about life in this book and it made me want to go back and read it again in a year.
Highly entertaining, there is never a dull moment and lots and lots of humor.
Having now read almost all of Bellow's novels, Herzog still stands out as one of my favorites.
The impulse is to read the entire book out loud.I quote Eugenides at length here because I think he hits the nail right on the head.
While "Herzog" is the only Bellow book I've read so far (Eugenides, in the New York Times, called it "the best of Bellow’s great novels") I feel I can already say that he's one of the great ones — one of the great 20th century prose stylists, along with such writers as Nabokov.
In 2005, Time magazine named it one of the 100 best novels in the English language since Time's founding in 1923.عنوانها: هرتزوک؛ هرتسوگ؛ ؛ تاریخ نخستی خوانش: روز پنجم ماه ژوئن سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: هرتزوک؛ نویسنده: سال بلو؛ مترجم: فرشته داوران؛ تهران، پیکان، 1379؛ در 520 ص؛ شابک: 9643281019؛ عنوان: هرتزوک؛ نویسنده: سال بلو؛ مترجم: فریدون رضوانیه؛ تهران، انتشارات پویان ، 1395، در 408 ص؛ شابک: 9786009538423؛ عنوان: هرتسوگ؛ نویسنده: سال بلو؛ مترجم: مهداد ایرانی طلب؛ تهران، مهد مینا، 1379، در 559 ص؛ شابک: 9646915086؛هرتزوگ، مردی میانسال، و یک استاد دانشگاه روشنفکر، و دارای اندیشه های والاست، که همسر بسیار زیبا، و جوانش: مادلین، به تازگی از او جدا شده، و معشوقه ی دوست صمیمی او: والنتاین، شده است.
Besides, I’ve only been reading fiction, after a long hiatus, for a year or two -- so really…, what’s to say?But since most of my GR friends who liked this book have not commented on it; while those who have, mostly don’t like it – I feel I need to say something in defense of poor Herzog.When I started this, I had the sinking feeling I had when I tried to read Henderson, The Rain King – many, many years ago.
For this is a large book, a book written ‘in grandi dimensioni’.Andre Gide (I think it was) commented about Dostoevsky that, in his novels, ideas became flesh.
However, his career seems to have stalled, at least partly as a result of tensions in his personal relationships:"I am a specialist in spiritual self-awareness; or emotionalism; or ideas; or nonsense." The Broken-Down MonarchBy the time we meet Herzog, he has been married twice (Daisy and Madeleine), divorced once and now separated a second time, as the result of his cuckolding by a former close friend, the poet and broadcaster, Valentine Gersbach.
She, understandably, wanted to shine as well.Ultimately, for all the intellectualism and sexuality that they shared, their relationship was just too internally competitive to survive, at least on the rules that they set collectively or individually.Madeleine ejects Herzog from the family home in Chicago, some time around October.
It captures the world of an educated, liberal, East Coast professor.
The year is 1964.I liked this book as much as I did because the East Coast of the 1950s and 1960s is familiar to me.
What we are seeing is life as it really is.
For me, this is how life really is.The audiobook is narrated by Malcolm Hillgartner.
I recommend this book to those who breathe NYC, who feel comfortable with American East Coast mannerisms, are of the liberal, academic bent, have Jewish connections and grew up in the 1940s, 50s or 60s.
Ma la sua natura gli causa dolore: ammette e nega il male nello stesso tempo, è riluttante e feroce, vuole avere tutto ma ha compassione del possesso.
La sofferenza che Moses prova non accresce il suo credito morale, è una forma estesa di vita, un antidoto all'illusione.
Herzog è in crisi perché Madeleine divorzia nel tradimento e in più si rivolge al suo stesso psichiatra e al suo stesso avvocato; del resto, è sempre Moses a causare l'unione tra moglie e amante.
E del nostro silenzio.“Ma per se stesso l'uomo non ha bisogno della felicità.
Egli non ha bisogno di significato fintanto che tale intensità abbia vastità di raggio.
Because getting over something like a divorce means moving on, even if you’re faking it half the time.
Eventually, you’re not faking it anymore, you are actually living your life, and that’s how you finally recover.
Or you just completely lose your shit and end up getting stuck in endless loops inside your own head as you ping pong from one impulsive thought and whim to another until you’re completely unable to tell the good ideas from the bad.
Like Moses Herzog.
But I just couldn’t get into it, mainly because I wanted someone to give Moses a brisk slap and tell him to grow up and get over himself.
To all the people that watched my brave struggle with this book; I dedicate this review to you.I have really mixed feelings about this one.
Was it an absolute struggle to read?
Was I wishing I was reading something else, something were things actually happened, like, I don't know say The Dark Desires Of the Druids III: Desert and Destiny?
Did I admire Bellow for going on for over 300 pages about absolutely nothing and still have people go gaga over it?
Yes, yes, yes...Did I think that Bellow used the book as an excuse to show off his elloquence and eruditism?
He feels his plight -- the cuckolded husband -- and feels it deeply, but at the same time he wants to observe it from the outside, to watch himself in the act of being "a loving but bad father" to his children, "an ungrateful child" to his parents, "affectionate but remote" to his siblings.
Or that Valentine Gersbach is the oily opportunist that Herzog thinks him to be?The truth is, we don't.
Other people in the novel seem less perturbed by Herzog's plight, by Madeleine's and Gersbach's actions, than he is.
The whole time, he’s venting his spleen by writing (presumably imaginary?
From what I’ve read about Bellow in James Atlas’s The Shadow in the Garden, this is all highly autobiographical.It would be easy to dismiss Bellow and his fellows (like Philip Roth and John Updike) as sex-crazed misogynists*, and I know many feminists do, but from what I’ve read so far I think they’re actually just plain fun to read, and this type of voice, though perhaps overprivileged thus far in literature, is one that deserves to be heard.
Ma nessuno aveva avuto l’abilità di usarla come uno strumento per costruirci attorno una forma narrativa.È proprio questa “piccola” idea geniale che ha garantito a Bellow una dimensione di libertà espressiva senza confini, un contenitore di storie e di idee inesauribile.
E dentro ha potuto metterci una quantità incredibile di storie, stimoli, fascinazioni.Ne viene fuori un personaggio immenso, che si estende in una quantità incredibile di direzioni.Entrare dentro la sua vita e amare quest’uomo inventato, riconoscersi nelle sue debolezze e nel suo bisogno di trovare ragioni per amare la vita nonostante abbia perfettamente chiaro dove va a parare, condividere la sua passione per l’osservazione minuta della realtà, seguire il flusso dei suoi pensieri, detestare la sua moglie-arpia, andare a scovare gli infiniti rimandi che Bellow si è divertito a metterci dentro per me ha rappresentato un piacere sublime.

They'll taper off throughout the book, as Herzog works through his midlife crisis and pulls himself together.There are some beautiful thoughts here; Bellow is, if nothing else, a smart and gifted writer.
I didn't expect Herzog to be this big of a deal, and maybe if I'd been ready for it I would have been more responsive to it - but it's also true that if a book asks a great deal of a reader, a reader is more likely to say "No" to it.
These books are long-term partners, and many of them are not for us.
Written well before Bellow became the curmudgeonly conservative of his older age, when he attacked multiculturalism and post-modernism, it was a joy to read.It concerns the mid-life crisis of Moses Elkanah Herzog; when his second wife Madeleine elects to end their marriage and start a relationship with Herzog’s best friend Valentine.
Ramona is younger, a marvellous cook, a voluptuous sex goddess, she loves Herzog unconditionally and is willing to save him and she is happy to put up with some of his less endearing habits (No wish fulfilment here Mr Bellow?).
Ο Μόουζες Χέρτσογκ δεν είναι κάποιος θετικός ήρωας.
Bellow δεν απευθύνεται στο σύγχρονο "εγγράμματο" κοινό που απαιτεί από τον "συγγραφέα" να θωπεύει τις ανασφάλειές του, να επιβραβεύει την ημιμάθειά του και να δίνει απαντήσεις στα κενά νοήματος ερωτήματά του.
Δεν "κομίζουμε Γλαύκα" υπενθυμίζοντας πως η πλειονότητα των σύγχρονων αναγνωστών προσεγγίζει την τέχνη -και δη τη λογοτεχνία- ως απάντηση στα προσωπικά του προβλήματα.
"Καλό βιβλίο" είναι εκείνο που του "προσφέρει" κάτι στο τέλος, ένα δίδαγμα, μια πορεία, μια απόδραση -έστω ακραία-, εν τέλει.
Αυτά όλα ΔΕΝ κάνει το "Χέρτσογκ".
Δεν επιτρέπει την ταύτιση, δεν ψυχαγωγεί, δεν προσφέρει απαντήσεις, δεν είναι λυσιτελές και τελεσφόρο έργο.
sintomo/commento 1:l'opera struggente di un formidabile genioil genio struggente di una formidabile operal'opera geniale di un trascinatore formidabilela struggente opera di un genio errantel'ebreo errante è uno genio all'operasintomo/commento 2:caro moses, ti scrivo questa lettera con molto ritardo.
sia di quello che mi perdevo, sia dei suoi effetti compulsivi a catena.
spero tanto che per la sindrome non esista una cura.
e di dissentire la prossima volta che sentirò definire questo tuo, un romanzo epistolare.
le ultime lettere di moses e.
herzog, tsk.una rapita lorin b.ps: credo tu abbia qualche responsabilità nella freddezza con cui un anno dopo la tua uscita venne accolto stoner di john williams.
Scrive, scrive a tutti Herzog ai vivi e ai morti, al suo psichiatra al suo avvocato al medico, ai fratelli finanche al presidente degli Stati Uniti, agli amici d'infanzia e gioventù, scomoda anche i filosofi prediletti Nietzsche, Freud Spinoza Kierkegaard.Lettere che non vengono spedite che restano nel cassetto, le scrive per se stesso per organizzare i suoi pensieri ma servono a Bellow per ricostruire, in un flash back con frequentissimi salti temporali, l'esistenza della sua creatura e della sua visione della vita.Quel mondo costellato di decine e decine di personaggi che sta a metà strada tra l'ambiente yiddish della vecchia Europa e il nuovo mondo americano.Ma Herzog si sente sempre un po' come un profugo, appena arrivato nell'America bianca anglosassone e protestante.E' un uomo di mezza età  i cui fantasmi dell'antica fierezza fisica sono ancora ben visibili in lui, mirabile espressione di Bellow per dire che è ancora un bel cinquantenne con la sua disordinata avvenenza.

I believe this is the third Saul Bellow book, that I have read, after Augie March and Henderson.Say what you might about the man and his stories, but of all the great writers that this country produces, Saul Bellow, remains among its’ top tier.Few can write as well as he can.The story is about his doppelganger, Moses Herzog, originally from Canada, with much of his life spent in Chicago and New York, the Berkshires.It takes place during the mid-nineteen sixties.
Have I got a story to tell YOU, son!’ And holds you breathless till he’s reached his riotous punch line.Except there’s no punch line in Herzog - or rather, the punch line dawns on you only after you’ve been reading it a while.
Enough said.But this book took America by storm back in the Kennedy era.Like Uncle Sid, it grabbed the literate nation by the lapels and said, ‘Look, Son - this ain’t a book - it’s LIFE itself, endlessly unrolling in new and unpredictable ways before your very eyes!
Herzog'da bu yıl okurken beni şöyle bir çarpan sonra kendisine has anlatamı ile hayran bırakan bir anti-hero klasiği. Saul Bellow, benim amerikan yazarları sevebileceğimi hissettiren bir yazar oldu.Yorumu gelecek...
شاید که تخفیف درد، جزو کوچکی از شادی بشر باشد.از متن کتاب
Ecco, uno, quando scrive un'affermazione del genere, è poi costretto a doverla spiegare; e io, che in questo caso non riesco ad argomentare con chiarezza, mi limiterò a dire che Saul Bellow ha scritto il più bel romanzo espistolare-non-epistolare di sempre; in più, "Herzog" è senza dubbio uno dei migliori testi in prima persona scritti in terza persona; e quest'ultima cosa valla a spiegare, eh.
No que Dios ha muerto.
Quizá deba decirse ahora que la Muerte es Dios.
La generación actual cree -este es un gran pensamiento- que nada que sea fidedigno, vulnerable y frágil puede durar ni tener verdadera fuerza.
La Muerte espera estas cosas lo mismo que un suelo de cemento espera a una bombilla que está a punto de caerse.
El brillante caparazón de cristal pierde con un estallido su pequeño vacío y eso es todo lo que pasa, aparte del ruido.
¿Crees que la Historia es la historia de los corazones enamorados?
Y es que el dios verdadero es la Muerte".
From "Cuckoldom," B.J. Ward"A man is only as good as what he loves." Saul BellowWhile Herzog doesn't center on the misdeeds of Moses Herzog's second ex-wife and his former colleague/friend/her now-husband, Herzog's being shamelessly cuckolded by them has played a significant role in who Moses Herzog has come to be: an unstable college professor who over-thinks day-to-day things, generally struggles with his inner wonk, still suffers the torment of betrayal and seems overly, and understandably, fearful of relationships with women, given the failures of his prior relationships and his female troubles.
It still seemed vague and disorganized to me, having been for so long used to chapters and clear division.I read a measly 18% of this book, and this is what I have to show for it:This book was extremely hard for me to review.
Perhaps that was meant to illustrate Herzog’s “madness”, but it was sort of annoying.Interspersed with that muddle were quotes of extreme genius, wit and introspection, so you might perhaps understand my difficulty in wrapping my mind on a fixed opinion.Throughout what I actually read, I could sense a dulled, dark humor underneath the drama of the plot.
Li até meio, com muita calma mas sem convicção, daí em diante li na diagonal. Não estou no modo certo para esta leitura, talvez noutra altura, ou noutra vida!Bellow tem todas as qualidades de um Nobel: erudito, denso, entrosado, rico e bastante resistente. O tema deste livro até é interessante, e a abordagem à introspeção questionadora também, mas enreda-se demais, perde-se em descrições não fornecendo propriamente motivação narrativa.
Basically, Moses Herzog, a 47 year old man living in the early 1960s in New York and Chicago, an academic, a grandson of immigrants, has done okay, as long as he was in a stable marriage while having affairs whenever opportunity and desire presented itself.
I can get Bellow's style in Herzog a little bit, because when I write, it's the words running through my head--the unfinished business, the issues that came up, the ideas, the memory of events still playing there--that I have to plug into.
