https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1744592.A_History_of_Costume
I was mostly interested in the sections on ancient cultures up to about the 16th century, so I read the first 300 pages or so and just skimmed through the illustrations for the last 150 pages.
I expect to refer back to this book and its illustrations frequently as I describe how the various cultures in my fictional world dress at different time periods.
However, this was the best book I could find on ancient clothing styles -- if anyone knows of others in this area, let me know!As I mentioned, this is a dry and scholarly text.
One of my first costume books purchased while taking a costume class in college.
I loved that it contained bits of patterns, line drawings and photographs of actual clothing pieces.
One of our assignments was to create a 3/4 model of a costume from a period of our choice.
I picked figure 234 in this book- a 15th c German dress with ermine pendant sleeves.
My Kohler is much marked and wobbly in its binding but it still brings back those good days when I first became interested in historic costume.
This book is a must for people intersted in costuming. To someone who is not native english speaker, the academic text might be a bit hard to understand. The book is full of information and it sometimes feels that you are drowning in the river and need to put the book away to get a breath of fresh air. Still, the book is interesting, full of information and patterns and lovable pocket size edition is easily carried in your bag.
This was an interesting book that detailed the many different styles of clothing humans have worn around the world and throughout the ages. It includes many images and patterns to help explain the clothes as well. Unfortunately, it seems as if you need to be a seamstress to understand everything the book is trying to tell you.
3.5 stars. Nifty resource, but I really didn't like how the author talked about women's clothing masking our "natural defects".
Black and white, does include patterns.
Personally, not that great. I rather use something like Costume in Detail, or 1000 Years of Fashion, if you can find it.
Interesting, but his patterns are all based on supposition.
Excellent resource for historical novels, especially sagas which span a hundred years.
One of those quintessential authorities; every constumer should own one!
