https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11851522-the-complete-works-of-h-p-lovecraft
Having said that, I need to mention that H.P.Lovecraft was quite diverse in his writings.
Other than these two novellas - both of which are excellent - I need to mention The Call of Cthulhu as one of the best example of his horror works.
Lovecraft's imagination runs really wild in his writings.
Lovecraft never uses dialog in his stories which is kind of unusual for a modern reader; he just gives a review of what was said.
Lovecraft's works do not have copyright protection, so this book was created by a kind soul and can be freely and legally downloaded from http://cthulhuchick.com/free-complete...
I.e. the writing absolutely gets in the way of the reading.
I would normally DNF a book written with this style.However, you can see things that would have been quite innovative at the time, such as landscapes that do not obey normal geometry, the concept of cosmic horrors and an indifferent universe.I'm parking the rest of the stories for now.
I'll no doubt re-open this book in the future and read some more.Why 4 stars - 'The Call of Cthulhu' got into my head and gnawed away at me - there is something about the story that get's under your skin.
Enough to inspire me to write fan fiction for the very first time at the link below.
A little daunted by the prolific proclivities of Lovecraft, I decided to cherry pick. General consensus pointed out the following five tales as being the cream of the crop:1. The Dragon2. The Outsider3. The Lurking Fear4. The call of Cthulu5. The Colour of outerspaceAnd, from my GR friend Bennet I picked up on ‘The thing on the doorstep’ which otherwise gets few mentions but turned out to be my favourite of the bunch. Then I stopped, because GR Chris told me too. And, because Lovecraft simply ca
A little daunted by the prolific proclivities of Lovecraft, I decided to cherry pick.
And, because Lovecraft simply can’t be read in one sitting.
As every body has done the Grand Tour , this painting is your opening conversation gambit with the partner to your left, whom you haven’t met before.
Although, he might have liked it: he seems fond of travel.The stories, then: verbose, vague, and full of people losing their minds over indescribable horrors.
My personal preference was for an actual description of the object of horror, which Lovecraft only indulges sporadically.
You can pick up a Kindle copy at the same place.Synopsis: The Complete Works of H.P. Lovecraft contains all the original stories which Lovecraft wrote as an adult.
While I enjoyed the Lovecraftian lore I had heard, I had never really counted myself as a fan, per se; however, after having read the complete works of this amazing writer, I think I can honestly say that I am, indeed, a fan.While it is true that Lovecraft was a racist, he was only aping the attitude of his time and place and history, and I think to judge him by modern standards is not useful when admiring his overall work.
A complete collection of H.P. Lovecraft's solo works (no collaborations), arranged by date.
It's a huge work, no doubt.My only gripe about the stories is that Lovecraft was overfond of a narrative style.
If dialogue were water, I'd have died of thirst.
And yet, the best of them read like a confession whispered through the cell door bars of an insane asylum.One thing that surprised me was that Cthulhu was a prominent character in only one story… and from that has been built a massive edifice of fan fiction and the like.Get this book.
It's free, and it's an excellent reference work.
First of all, if I was rating the work that Ruth at cthulhuchick.com has done in compiling this collection, I'd give it a full 5 stars.
She did an excellent job creating the e-book.I had some very good memories of reading Lovecraft, and most of the stories still hold up well.
I realize that it was written in a different time, but it left me unable to fully appreciate the stories.It was great to finally read the full Cthulhu mythos in order and to see it develop.
It was interesting to read the originals that have influenced so many writers after.All in all this book left me with mixed feelings.
**Review Under Construction********************************************************************************November 1, 2015: Full disclosure, I don't really like Lovecraft. I love Poe, but Lovecraft did not impress me when I sampled him a few years ago. However, as with  The Turn of the Screw , I feel I should read Lovecraft just to catch all the allusions, especially since I have recently fallen in love with the work of a writer of the self-proclaimed New Weird (Jeff VanderMeer), as it seems th
★★☆☆☆ Cool Air (1926): ★★☆☆☆ The Call of Cthulhu (1926): ★★☆☆☆ Pickman’s Model (1926): ★★★★☆ The Silver Key (1926): (And now to figure out how to do the rest of this review since Goodreads thinks I shouldn't write a novel to review one.)★★☆☆☆ The Strange High House in the Mist (1926): ★★☆☆☆ The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath (1927): ★★★★☆ The Case of Charles Dexter Ward (1927): ★★★☆☆ The Colour Out of Space (1927): ★☆☆☆☆ The Very Old Folk (1927): ★★★★☆ The Thing in the Moonlight (1927): ★★★★☆ The History of the Necronomicon (1927): ★★☆☆☆ Ibid (1928): ★★☆☆☆ The Dunwich Horror (1928): ★★★★☆ The Whisperer in Darkness (1930): ★★★★★ At the Mountains of Madness (1931): Quite suddenly Lovecraft redeems himself.★★★☆☆ The Shadow Over Innsmouth (1931): You've heard of this one, right?
I've been working on reading through these short stories and novellas for the past 9 months, taking my time with them and making sure I didn't rush through them too quickly.
There are no collaborations here, just the total body of work that HP Lovecraft produced on his own.As with any collection of so many stories, their quality ran the gamut from merely OK to masterpiece.
I also appreciated the TOC listing the date each story was written, to assist in understanding what was going on in the author's life at that time.
read a decent selection of it :) pretty great! Something being Euclidean or not is significantly less scary than he imagines haha
I'd rather avoid authors like this - yet at the same time, the words are there, and he's not the only one spewing this sort of thing - and I think we're better off not forgetting that this sort of writing was common.
(I can't say that Lovecraft is the most disturbingly casually racist content I've read, but that certainly doesn't excuse it.) I don't think it's the kind of thing we should forget, and it should be held up as an example of what we don't want to go back to.Another author with racism that I found disturbing: G.
I am rating this as an entire book, rather than an opinion of the author in general or of any given stories.
When I get a book, I like to read it cover to cover.
I don't like to quit books that I've started.
So I read every story.
As a complete collection, one quickly discovers that Lovecraft is quite repetitive, both with story ideas and favorite words.
It's my opinion that 96.8% of readers would be better off getting an edited collection of maybe 10 of Lovecraft's best stories and realizing that the rest are more of the same.
I read it as a strange metaphor for Lovecraft's sexual appetites.Dagon: Great pre-cursor to "The Shadow Over Innsmouth." Sailor in a life raft comes upon a strange, mysterious continent that has come up from unimaginable depths from an incalculable time.
Fantastic setting of the mood and a cool ending.Beyond the Wall of Sleep: The first of Lovecraft's sleep stories I've ever read.
Another pre-cursor to "The Shadow Over Innsmouth."The Terrible Old Man: The only crime story that I've ever read by Lovecraft.
Unfortunately, the rest of the story doesn't deliver on this intriguing setting.The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath: The worst Lovecraft I've ever read.
The complete works of a master at the price of 99 cents.
It's formatted near perfectly for an insane amount of content, and the stories are arranged by date so you get the entire feel of Lovecraft's work.
There's a lot of repetition if you try and read the entire thing, but you can trace the development of the Mythos, and appreciate all the self-referencing each of his works has.
The supernatural is not something you tamper with at all.But even if you don't plan on reading it all, you get all of Lovecraft's famous works in one handy package at a criminally low price.
I read the half of the stories, mesmerized by Lovecraft's style and atmosphere but I need to have a break and get away from this eeriness for a while.
When it comes to Lovecraft, everyone mentions 'the Call of Ktulu' but there is more to it although I felt reading the same creepy adventures of the same character from different times for most of the stories.
One thing that bugs me and makes me have mixed feelings is his racist approach to non-Europeans.
Most foreigners are malicious and unreliable.
I need less typical strangers that protagonists have to face.
I was prepared for the creepiness of his stories, but not the unexpectedly gorgeous prose.Some favorites:The Quest of IranonThe Music of Erich ZannThe Silver KeyThe Dream-Quest of Unknown KadathThe Case of Charles Dexter Ward
The aliens in his stories don't share the same plane of reality, they don't adhere to our aesthetics, and they think in a vastly different way which we can't fathom.His idea of space travel is also very interesting.
He melds mysticism with science in a way I've seen no other writer do till now.
Lovecraft, as always, comes with a gigantic disclaimer. The racism, the misogyny, or just plain malice of Lovecraft are sometimes hard to deal with, and probably enough to make many people put down his stories (including me, more than a few times) but at the same time, they are a really good read. Especially in the genre. Lovecraft was an a******, but he was also a pretty decent writer of the weird tales. Or something.
A classic! All of Lovecraft's fiction in one place and in chronological order.His works are wonderfully creepy and redolent with science and folklore. What makes them even more creepy is the realism he places in them. Just enough for you to wonder "what if?". I just love this stuff.
Weird, but tempting. Reminds me of E. A. Poe, but from another world, the world of Cthulhu.
.
Free http://amzn.to/2H3Kk91
It was great aside from some of the racism. Some of the stories were a little bit too short or went on a little too long.
Lovecraft got paid by the word, and he really liked the money.But before you come with pitchforks and torches to get me, let me explain the whole affair.First off, the first story of the book is "At the Mountains of Madness" (because all stories are in their alphabetical order) and it really rubbed me in the wrong way: It does a good job setting the ambient for the story but when it reaches its crux, it starts to dragging down and the story pace goes really really slow, because at this point, Lovecraft decides that almost all -- if not all -- substantives must have a proper adjective.
It has been almost twenty years since I last ready Lovecraft on a regular basis, so I was quite concerned that my earlier fascination with his work had been a "phase" (it's not like I ever gave up on sci-fi and fantasy literature), but the months that I devoted to these complete works (a labour of love by Cthulhu Chick http://arkhamarchivist.com/) has been like getting in touch with a dear old friend and finding that he/she is even deeper than your remembered.
He tells stories obliquely, often through the voice of someone relaying things that purportedly happened to someone else.On the other hand, his vision of horror is more applicable to real life than the vampires, werewolves and ghosts of old -- it is a better metaphor for the doom we all fear.
Vampires, werewolves, etc.
I like "The Call of Cthulhu," "The Silver Key," "The Case of Charles Dexter Ward" and "At The Mountains of Madness." I cannot abide "The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kaddath."I give this book four stars, mostly because the good stuff is memorable and because I do like Lovecraft's ideas and his influence.
The sheer volume of stories is good, too; if you like weird fiction there is a lot of it here.
Probably one of the best indexed versions of H.P. Lovecraft's works, this has every story he's even written, except for Imprisoned With The Pharaohs.
As a complete collection, this is indeed as good as it gets.
So, while previously you may have had to get a half dozen different collections, this is all one faithful collection.Very well done as an inclusive collection, the stories are well compiled and largely error free.
The formatting is good as well, and not just a quick "copy" of the text.
So, if you are looking for a complete collection of stories, this is about one of the best you can find.
In defence of the early stories, I've read "The Tomb" and "Dagon" and enjoyed both. I agree that stories like "The Dunwich Horror" (for example) are superior, but that's no reason to write off the early works. The image of the immense, slippery fish-god wrapping its arms around the stone monolith and the dark simplicity with which Lovecraft writes "I think I went mad then." gave me a shudder.I shall continue with interest.UPDATE: "Polaris" was very good indeed, and once again demonstrates what gems there are to be found amongst the early stories.
I can't finish one of his stories. I'm guessing something's wrong with me since he's considered a classic horror writer, but man his stuff is boring, voiceless and not even that weird. How am I supposed to care? Everything's written with a distance, not only from the action, but from the characters involved. Arg.
I think it would make an awesome movie, tracing the narrator as his investigations reveal layers of cultish activity and previous clueless inquiries, piecing them together as each new narrative introduces interesting characters and scenarios to the screen, the timeline doubling back upon itself as new details of Cthulhu’s awakening arise… I also love this story for its crystallization of what I see as an overlooked theme in Lovecraft’s work, that of the differences between the poetic and the scientific mind.
Aqui, eu me arrependi um pouco de ter colocado essa edição ao invés de ir adicionando cada um dos livros ou contos, porque acho que ficaria até mais legal, fazer uma resenha de cada um dos trabalhos.
No meu caso, ele era meu autor entre livros, ou seja, ele foi intercalado entre as outras leituras que fiz ao longo dos anos.Outra coisa que deixa meio repetitivo é o que ele tenta fazer nos finais das histórias em geral: deixar o último parágrafo com o último horror como se fosse uma revelação (depois de algumas histórias, realmente não é) e isso vai ficando bem batido.
