https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61538.The_Extended_Phenotype
Here Dawkins turns his critical eye and razor sharp words to evolutionary views that take the individual organism as the definitive playing field for natural selection to operate.
Using the gene's eye view of life that he developed so well in  The Selfish Gene, he shows that animal artifacts are better understood as objects engineered by natural selection, rather than as by products of the behavior of organisms.
He also makes the case that many phenomena incidental to parasitism and symbiosis are better understood if the organism level view of biological agents is abandoned.
This book illustrates the point and then some.
Great but fatiguingContrary to Dawkin's most famous "Selfish Gene" this book is much more difficult to read for a non-biologist person. Some parts required me to google terms definitions and problem backgrounds each paragraph, if not line.Despite of this the whole reading experience is very satisfying. Lot of new concepts that bring up interesting ideas, numerous facts and remarkably great language - all of this teams up to build the great book. It's great reading for everyone ready to grind through complexities of material.
It's clear that Dawkins' critics, who label him an "Ultra-Darwinist" [whatever that is] haven't read this book.
Dawkins deftly responds to critics in describing how genes rely on their environment for successful replication.
It's a tough situation to cope with, but Dawkins describes the mechanism with such precision and clarity, we readily understand "how" if not "why" evolution works.
If any defense of this book is needed, Dennett is a peerless champion for the task.
As he's done elsewhere {Darwin's Dangerous Idea], Dennett mourns the lack of orginality and logic among Dawkins' critics.
It's almost worthwhile reading Dennett's brief essay before starting Dawkins.
The language of the book cannot be called simple and it takes some efforts to follow the authors reasoning, but these efforts will reap big reward. In process of reading you will experience the happiness of discovers time and again, have finished the book you will get another angle of view of the phenomenon of life. Don't panic, extend your mind.
I'm sure this is great, but I'm not a scientist and as one of Dawkins least accessible books, this one was overkill. It's an expansion of topics covered in The Selfish Gene, which I'd previously enjoyed, but there was too much detail for me to take in. I'll skip back to some of his later books.
I'd give it 5 stars if I knew enough biology to be able to confirm it (or 1 if I could refute it).
2015: Built upon and more advanced than The Selfish Gene. Readers beware!2017: Re-read this after re-reading The Selfish Gene. It definitely makes more sense to me this time around.
Dawkins spends a very long time addressing criticism from The Selfish Gene, as well as some criticism with his extended phenotype theorem.
He even ends with an optimistic view of life, presumably addressing the sadness (?) that this way of thinking brought at the time.Overall, a very good book, but unless you wish to get into the knitty-gritty of many different theories (some very pertinent and some a bit less), you might be best off reading the last few chapters.
Alternatively, the summary of the extended phenotype theorem that Dawkins provides in the recent editions of The Selfish Gene might be a good option.
Richard Dawkins asks us (again) to try to think of evolution in terms of selfish *genes*.The book promotes concepts called replicators (genes, DNA) and vehicles (organisms, groups, species...).
Examples are given of how this replicator/gene-centric view of evolution tries to make sense of evolutionary phenomena that otherwise we would have a hard time explaining if we stuck to the traditional, organism-centric view.I got to about mid-way through the book, then Dawkins went on a "Lamarckism bash", and some other academic debates regarding (neo?)Darwinism.
Will retry the latter half of the book in the future!
Dawkins is a contemporary genius with fresh perspectives in several fields. Good read.
In this book, Dawkins picks up his selfish gene theme and extends its influence to organs and systems within the body and then to the external environment.
In doing so, Dawkins never strays from his central themes: Genes are in charge, pursuing their self-interest; the body and its behavior is their vehicle; and the germ-line replicator is the unit of selection.
Dawkins writes that through behavior, the phenotypic effects of genes “feed back on those genes’ chances of surviving, and as a result gene frequencies change in succeeding generations in adaptive directions.” As I understand it, mutation and alternate forms for each gene (alleles) create a range of variation that natural selection then works on, tossing out options that don’t work and keeping those that do.
Richard Dawkins here explains his view that the largest unit on which natural selection can reasonably be said to operate is the gene rather than the organism, and explores this idea’s consequences for the standard conceptions of organisms, groups, and selection.
The key difference is that the balance is not driven by a push towards harmony but the ruthless interactions and pushes for self-replication between a myriad of different genes.Dawkins pushes this concept far in this book: he explores parasitism, evolutionary arms races, sex ratios, and embryology with an expert’s touch.
The general point here is that for an animal on one side of the arms race the penalty of failure is more severe than for an animal on the other side of the arms race.""If the individual manipulator has more to lose by failing to manipulate than the individual victim has to lose by failing to resist manipulation, we should expect to see successful manipulation in nature.""What is the optimon?""Workers care for their reproductive siblings who carry germ-line copies of the caring genes.""The unit of selection is a function in part of the intensity of selection: the more intense the selection, the more the whole genome tends to hold together as a unit.""An active replicator is a chunk of genome that, when compared to its alleles, exerts phenotypic power over its world, sch that its frequency increases or decreases relative to that of its alleles.""A vehicle is any unit, discrete enough to seem worth naming, which houses a collection of replicators and which works as a unit for the preservation and propagation of those replicators.""The inclusive fitness of an organism is not a property of himself, but a property of his actions or effects.
It is only now that I realize the publication of The Extended Phenotype (TEP) was in 1982, a mere three years after my favorite work of his The Selfish Gene (TSG).
This close publication date explains why these two books are so similar, and why I felt like TEP was dragging its heels for the first ~200 pages.It was not until chapter 11 that Dawkins began explicating his theory, the pages spent before this point were designed to undercut the reader's focus on the individual organism as the unit of adaptive benefit and instead place his/her faith in the gene.
Like all Dawkin's books on evolution I highly recommend this.
Thankfully because he summarizes his points at the end of each paragraph, even if one is clueless to the specifics of what he's staying, it's still possible to walk away with a confident grasp on how Natural Selection and Adaptive Fitness works.
What he and countless other evolutionary biologists observed is that, a phenotype (the visible traits of an organism) exists solely to benefit the gene responsible for such trait or behavior, and to be quite specific, the active germ-line replicator (the potential ancestor of an indefinitely long line of descendents whose nature influences it's chance of being copied).
This idea appeals to me for several reasons: 1) because it reminds me of the ecosystem approach, where in this case the ecosystem extends from the DNA molecule to the large natural environment, 2) because it raises interesting questions about individual survival and what it truly means to be "well adapted to one's environment", and 3) because it incorporates different biological fields ranging from biochemistry to ecology, with all of them orbiting principles of evolutionary biology.This has to be the most objective work by Dawkins that I've read so far.
The main idea of this book is rather simple: Genes do not only program the physical development of the organisms that they "live in." Rather they also program stuff that occurs outside of the organism.
For instance, Venus Fly Traps possess genes for increasing the chances that flies will "choose" to fly into their traps.Dawkins effectively argues that this perspective will help clarify biologists thinking about Darwinian adaptation.
If it's too intimidating, I'd suggest reading Dawkins' The Selfish Gene instead, which covers much of the same conceptual territory in a much less technical way.
An extra read for those who liked "The Selfish Gene".
This one was written for biologists but the glossary in the end of the book and Dawkins' illuminating prose make it easy to follow.
The first chapters are aimed at precluding any possible misunderstandings of what Dawkins meant in "The Selfish Gene".
Meanwhile the book is 30 y.o. and I would love to read about how Dawkins' idea was further developed in biology and what is now the state of the art.
Not as approachable as "The Selfish Gene," but it's a very strong follow-up for people who want more and who are willing to do a little work... Because of the rigor and the slightly different tilt of the book, there are many broader implications revealed through this treatment that weren't evident to me from "The Selfish Gene." As a non-biologist, the discussions frequently pushed me to their implications in the non-genetic meme-scape.
Very detailed, and perhaps most of all scientific, analysis of how the little things in life... literally, are the ones that drive change--at least biologically. Things can get pretty technical and minute, and perhaps overly defensive with all the rebuttals of other authors that sure makes it tempting to just skip a few paragraphs or even pages just to get to the summary of the idea he's trying to get across... the ideas are grand but the delivery a bit too verbose--
I was pretty proud of myself for getting through this one. Not because it's boring - Dawkins is never boring! - but I'm definitely a layperson and this one is far more technical than the others I'd read. But I'm glad I stuck with it, because it gives more depth and perspective on the ideas in the more populist books.
A wonderufl book for anyone interested in biology or genetics. It talks about how natural selection can be altered and produce very shocking results. It explains how the peacock got it's tail and the interesting train of between being desirable as a mate and being able to survive. It's a facinating book.
Convincingly argued thesis for the genocentric viewpoint of Darwinism. EP is aimed at professional biologists, but is readily accessible to a lay reader (like me), who combines some background knowledge with patient attentiveness.
This is the one to read. Anyone who wants to say anything about Dawkins should read this first.
Not a book for everyone. Technically challanging for non-biologists.
По нынешним временам книжка несколько устарела, и скучновата, особенно в середине.Тем не менее, это уже классика.
In short, it's not something to read unless you are really interested in the topic, and to any layman I would recommend reading the Selfish Gene first.Dawkins is very clear with his lines of reasoning.
Dawkins is too defensive of his ideas than necessary; the title of this book should ideally be "The Extended Phenotype, and Miscellaneous Topics and Debates in Evolutionary Biology." There's no harm in defending your own ideas, and these chapters are probably a lot more interesting to an expert in the field, but they are frankly very boring for someone who doesn't know the wider context of the debates.
Ideally, these two sections of the book should be separated so that it's easier to get down to the good stuff.If you enjoyed reading the Selfish Gene, give this a shot.
As a layman, however, I followed these arguments with ever more frustration, not simply for the difficulty of the text, but for the outdated ideas like "junk DNA," which to be fair, Dawkins mentions each time as "so-called junk DNA." More explicitly, one example, and one source of my queer amusement, was the confusing nature of cistrons, which certainly was confusing at the time of this book's publishing, but is now only confusing because we've solved it, and found a hundred more questions.
Therefore, I hope it is not insulting that I consider Dawkins's speculation on that subject be secondary to a layman's interest in this book, and therefore frustrating, especially as it is made into a long digression-- the like of which characterizes this book.
The sequel to Dawkin's The Selfish Gene.The first book in the series was written for the layman and really changed my perspective on evolution.
Manipulation is but one way that an organism can benefit another's genes, and it was interesting to learn about the different ways this occurs in nature.The most important message of the book was to change our perspective of the individual organism selfishly acting for its own benefit to focus on the genes within organisms extending their influence to the outside world, even beyond the skin and outer tissues they are contained in, to manipulate their environment, thereby increasing their chances of being propagated.
This book felt long and difficult to read.
"The Extended Phenotype", however, seems to cement and extend already established ideas, in a very, very thorough way.
It's like a boring book on a fascinating topic.On the one hand, this might be due to the book's age: the ideas in there are have been popularized for several decades already and had I not known what the extended phenotype means in a broad sense from popular science media, I probably wouldn't have picked up the book in the first place.
I wish I had read it then.
