https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1122534.The_Edwardians
“It is no good my telling you. One never believes other people's experiences and one is only very gradually convinced by one's own.”  Sebastian is nineteen years old, dashingly handsome, and the heir to a vast and beautiful country estate called Chevron. Edward the Caresser, eldest son of Victoria, is on the throne of England. It is 1905, and the grim days of World War One are still unrealized. As a member of the Upper Classes and a regular at any gala event in Edwardian high society, Sebastian
He is the father figure who could make a better man of Sebastian, but he would have to give up his life at Chevron to go adventuring with Anquetil.
Despite his superficial existence, I can’t help liking Sebastian because of his love for the family estate.
Portrait of Vita Sackville-West by William Strang.Sebastian knows he will never find another to match Sylvia, so he tries romancing a series of very different women.
My first ever Vita Sackville-West book and it wont be my last(I have another lined up for reading). This earns a place in my all-tme favorites, a novel that peers into the lives of the old aristocrats known as The Edwardians. Because V.Sackville-West came from this sort of background I felt like I was getting an inside look into this world ruled by class,society,the fashionable, the haughty and the snobbish of this wonderful era. I absolutely love this book and I recommend it to everyone who is a fan of Downton Abbey and the like.
It was a tapestry that he saw, and heard the strains of a wind orchestra.”It had been that way for hundreds of years, with sons following their fathers into the shops to learn a trade, and with positions within the house filled by the daughters and nieces of those already employed; with staff claiming – and constrained by – their inheritance just as much as the family they served.All of this is so vividly evoked, and the early chapters are rich with details of the life of the house, the party arrangements, the family, and a veritable army of servants.One of the weekend visitors to Chevron, Leonard Antequil, didn’t belong to that world; but his adventurous life, including a winter spent alone in a snow hut in the Arctic Circle, and had brought him fame and made him a very desirable guest for the fashionable set.It may not have occurred to the other guests that he was there as the result of his own of his efforts while they were there only by chance of birth or marriage.
Lo que me ha gustado.
Mucho disfruto de esta clase de libros..
no puedo evitarlo, es mi única Dorcas debilidad^^ Ha sido como ver la serie Downton Abbey o Upstairs Downstairs por el retrato tan ¡magnífico!
de la sociedad inglesa de comienzos del siglo XX con sus deslumbrantes pero encorsetadas costumbres, un mundo de entrañables tradiciones ligadas a la mansión de Chevron contempladas a través de los ojos de sus dos jóvenes protagonistas, los hermanos Sebastián y Viola, sobre todo de Sebastián futuro heredero y duque.
Sebastian is the center character, the dashing nineteen-year-old, who rebels against his mother, but still stays within the norms of society.
A close look at the author, Vita Sackville-West, will show that this book is more than just a novel.
The opening imprint reads "No character in this book is wholly fictitious." Lucy, Duchess of Chevron, is a thinly veiled portrayal of Victoria Sackville-West's controlling mother of Vita Sackville-West.
Chevron is without a doubt Knole the one true love of Vita.
Sebastian and Viola are two different Vitas.
The middle class did marry for love and took their vows much more serious as Sebastian finds out.
Whereas All Passion Spent had a quiet, old woman at its center, The Edwardians has a dashing, young man.
I'm inclined to think Sebastian is a little closer to Vita's own essence, though I suppose that one is debatable.
Both of these books by Vita are well written, so why do I stubbornly withhold that fifth star?I can certainly appreciate her wit, her wisdom, her stunning prose.
She wanted passion, grandeur, adventure.
I want constancy and the quiet contentment she seemed to fear.Though the book has literary merit, it doesn't quite satisfy my own literary cravings.
Sorry, Vita!
I’ve been aware of Sackville-West for some time and, though I knew she was a writer, I thought of her mainly in relation to Virginia Woolf so I was surprised at how good The Edwardians was.
Of course he’s inherited a life of privilege with all its ancient traditions but after he meets someone from outside his class Sebastian begins to question his life.
The Edwardians threw off some of the staid values of Victoria’s morals and, at least the upper classes, became downright licentious or was it that the stopped trying to hide it?
People were not very real to him, and women least of all.""For Sebastian liked to pour vinegar into his own wounds."But then Sebastian is rather ruined by a very safe relationship with his mother's best friend, Lady Roehampton ...
dining with Lucy, and was given two fingers instead of three – she had never been given five – and was called Lady Roehampton instead of 'Sylvia'.'What a success you have had!' Said the duchess, putting up her lorgnon as though to scrutinise the remains of Sylvia's beauty; 'the Daily Mail this morning was full of your praises.
An iconoclastic review soon/Crítica iconoclasta en breve.
It's easy to get swept away in a world so far from ones own but at the same time knowing that the actual relatability of the characters is far from accessible.Not much happens in the way of plot points but it takes a step back from the reading process to really notice.
I'm glad to have finally finished its pages and even more pleased that they didn't prove a dissapointment.For anyone yet to sample the lyrical prose of Vita Sackville-West, I highly recommend you do so as soon as possible.
Most people know Vita Sackville-West form reading Virginia Woolf.
With me being a huge fan of Virginia, I had to read some of Vita's books.
I couldn't help compare the two writers.There isn't much to compare with Vita and Virginia, writing wise.
The fact that Vita and Virginia don't write the same is actually a good thing.I didn't really care for the plot if this book.
It's not a bad book, it's just slow.
Parts of it I didn't really get because I'm not English and other parts I liked because of the disruptions.
I'm thinking I'll like All Passion Spent better.
The main issuer of the novel is whether or not Sebastian will follow the model of high society, as illustrated by his mother Lucy and her friends, or strike out in a more independent and authentic direction, like the one his quiet and smart sister Viola eventually chooses.
The story is bookended by the appearances of Leonard Anquetil, an unconventional explorer, adventurer, and free spirit, who first causes Sebastian to question and doubt the lifestyle of his peers and sows the seeds of independence and authenticity in him.
I wish that there had been more of Leonard and Viola as a foil for Sebastian and Lucy.
Lifting and casting my eyes around the room I was reminded of no shortage of other books yet to be read.I may be guilty here, literally, of missing the plot, big time.
Whatever merits this novel possesses, this book gave me a glimpse of one woman’s somewhat bleak interpretation of early twentieth century English upper class Edwardian Society; a life of tightly interwoven blood relationships that she appeared ill at ease with, though born into that social class herself.
A “Brideshead Revisited” or a “Forsythe Saga” of the first decade of the twentieth century, “The Edwardians” is most definitely not.
Among the many problems which beset the novelist, not the least weighty is the choice of the moment at which to begin his novel.I had only a few pages left to read when I set this aside last Autumn. Didn't want to abandon entirely but didn't have much eagerness for carrying on. No doubt this is must for those who like to delve into London's geometric society but it really has been a chore for me. It gets 2* only because I (finally) finished
I'm not sure why I so disliked this... it should have been right up my alley. Wrong book at the wrong time?
Society gossip from the early nineteen hundreds in England! So awesome!
I made the SR of this book for Distributed Proofreaders Canada and it'll be published by FadedPage.
And really it does seem terribly antiquated and far removed from reality when you read it.
Except I was reading it just as we were waiting for the Windsors to announce the birth of the third in line to the throne, so it added a certain poignancy to the reading.
One of them was when an elderly gent intoned something along the lines of "Every generation thinks the end of the world is nigh or going to pot or some such".
Creo que me ha gustado todavía más que All passion spent. Es un retrato maravilloso de una época, tan real que parece que lo estés viendo y además con la ventaja de saber que unos pocos años después ese mundo llegará a su fin a causa de la I Guerra Mundial. Me ha recordado a El gato pardo (aunque no se parece nada), pero esa sensación de decadencia de... no sé. Recomendable 100%
Toda una sorpresa de un libro que acaba siendo la representación de un fresco de una época pretérita
A Brideshead Revisted rip-off (even if it was written earlier.)
Vita Sackville-West grew up during the time period she both lovingly details and skewers in The Edwardians, and after a sort of slow start, the book comes alive because of her inside knowledge.
She occasionally drop names (King Edward, Mrs. Langtry), and admits that "No character in this book is wholly fictitious." I suppose if you were reading this in 1930, when King George was still alive (his coronation ends the book), then you were probably madly trying to figure out who was who (all without the trusty help of the internet!).
The entire book was a pleasure though (except for the awful end).
Sebastian, unlike Viola, eventually bows to the inevitable and takes his rightful place as a peer, even attending the coronation of George V in 1911: '...Sebastian...had been born a prisoner; and his chains were dear to him, although he might pretend to strive against them.' That push-pull of trying to find himself through all sorts of unsuitable affairs and other such things is what makes this book such a fascinating read.
Vita Sackville-West - well versed in such society and such societal dilemmas - pulls the glamour rug out from under the Edwardians' feet, and exposes all that is right and wrong with those in Sebastian's position.
This edition has a fascinating and insightful introduction written by Vita Sackville-West's granddaughter, Juliet Nicolson.
Life in the 1920s at an English country house following Sebastian's coming-of-age story, the 19-year old duke of the estate.
This is a good winter read reminiscent of "Middlemarch" and "Downton Abbey," stuck in a time when estates and tenants are modernizing.
The author was a an only child and expected to take over her own estate for her parents.
She is famous for being Virginia Woolf's lover, but no indication here, except Sebastian and his sister may both be separate halves of Vita's life.
Recommended if you liked "Middlemarch" or "Remains of the Day" by Kazuo Ishiguro.
On the surface a story about infidelity and a fake morality, but in the end it is about characters trapped in different ways by the expectations placed upon them by society. A feeling many can likely relate to. The main character Sebastian is given two chances to dramatically break free from the expected and well-trodden life before him. I found myself thinking "what is my Chevron", in what ways do I live life as expected, and at what cost? Would I have taken those chances to change.
I am drawn to the subject of manor houses, and this book has great literary associations! However, there are reasons why V. Sackville-West is mainly known for her gardening more than anything else...
My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2017/03/08...
If you've read Woolf's Orlando, the opening pages of The Edwardians will seem familiar to you, because they are both set in Sackville-West's ancestral home of Knole, this time called Chevron.
In it, Sackville-West struggles to strike the right note: it seems like it's an indictment of the petty squabbles, indulgence and lack of morals of Edwardian society, but at the same time Sackville-West clearly loves the traditions of the British upper classes and struggles to satirise them.
Like the main character, Sebastian, she loves the tradition of lord and serf, and doesn't want it to end.
Wow.Wow. I loved this book! The characters are so well drawn out and you even have some sympathy for the ones you don't like. I knew within the first few pages that I was in for a great ride and I was right.If you like classic literature centered around high-society and all their foibles, pick up this novel. If you like stories that delve into a character's inner workings and what makes them tick--go get this book. If you love Jane Austen or Dorothy Whipple or Edith Wharton...You get my drift. Please go read this book.
This was an interesting look at the lives of several people in the Edwardian age.
It focused on Sebastian, a young duke who came to realize that he was trapped inside the life expectations of his time and class.
Toward the end, while going to the coronation of King George, he realized that the coach taking him there had no handle on the inside--he could not get out of it on his own.
I found this a powerful symbol of his life.
Well written, and with an intimate knowledge of the customs of the age.
