https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105187.Put_Out_More_Flags
I suspect Basil Seal and Bertie Wooster are two versions of the same person. Bertie is the one that shows up in stories for polite company; Basil is the one that shows up in court transcripts.
I recently read, and very much enjoyed Sword of Honour, like this book, Sword of Honour is a satirical novel about World War Two. The books that comprise the Sword of Honour trilogy were written in the 1950s and 1960s when Evelyn Waugh was able to put World War Two into some kind of perspective.
The story follows the wartime activities of characters introduced in Waugh's earlier satirical novels Decline and Fall, Vile Bodies and Black Mischief.
It's of most interest to Waugh completists (of whom I am definitely one) and should not be prioritised ahead of his key works: Brideshead Revisited, Sword of Honour, Decline and Fall, and A Handful of Dust.
Best thing really for all concerned.” How does Basil respond to the expectations and desires of his mother, sister and mistress?With the outbreak of WWII, the opportunistic Basil states his objective early on: "I want to be one of those people one heard about in 1919: the hard-faced men who did well out of the war."Lady Seal seeks the aid of Sir Joseph Mainwaring (Jo) a well-meaning, well-connected booby of the old school.
Thank God for Waugh!
Going back to him - it must be ten years since I've read any - is like emerging from a Turkish bath, alive in every pore, your senses quickened and joie de vivre restored.
The dialogue is brilliant, the characters sad, odious, weak, shabbily noble - all of them brilliantly anatomised.
Waugh's sympathies are huge (and yet in life such a splenetic and selfish man!) and his wit is at full tilt.
What a horrible, horrible man is Basil Seal.
The evacuee children, the Connollys, are among Waugh's best comic creations.
Named, I now realise, for Cyril Connolly!
Readable. Character-cramped. Satirical.
The general image of Britain at the beginning of the second World War is very different from the polite, quietly ridiculous society portrayed here. The story follows an aging rascal (Basil, who I came to hate), his aristocratic family, and his friend Ambrose, a flamboyantly gay writer. The talk is witty, the characters vivid, and the plot mostly serves to show how wrong all the experts where when it came time for war.
Evelyn Waugh's look at the first year of Britain's involvement in WW2 revolves around Basil Seal. Seal and his friends & family are typical Waugh characters and his depiction of the Ministry of Information was hilarious! It is an interesting look at how many Brits felt at the beginning of the war, an attitude easily forgotten in the events that followed.
What a strange novel: It starts showing the adventurers of a lot of ne'er-do-wells trying to avoid doing anything serious for the "Great Boer War" as some of them call it.
What starts out as a comedy ends up with several characters rolling up their sleeves and deciding that they better get along with it.Put Out More Flags is named after the following lines from a Chinese sage quoted by Lin-Yutang and appearing in the front of the book:A man getting drunk at a farewell party should strike a musical tone, in order to strengthen his spirit ...
This is a satirical comedy looking at how a group of upper class English socialites respond to the beginning of WWII. It bridges the gap quite nicely between the social class Waugh first began satirising in Vile Bodies (which itself anticipated the Second World War by a number of years) and the romanticisation of the pre-War period and incorporation of deeper religious themes which Waugh attempted to address in Brideshead Revisited. It also sits quite nicely alongside Waugh's other WII satire, the Sword of Honour trilogy.
Este lo he leído en español, pero no lo veo en GoodReads. Bueno, solo decir que nada que ver con Retorno a Brideshead.
On the contrary, his mother provides him a generous allowance for his personal indulgences, but still finds herself frequently paying off his debts when they become over-indulgences.
Even when discovered, Basil manages to sell his ingenious scheme to another enterprising man for mutual secrecy and a good sum of money to boot.Basil’s attempts at war heroism are far less successful than his money-making endeavors.
However, guilt then compels Basil to effect his friend’s escape to Ireland.In between failed attempts at money-making and war heroism, Basil’s dalliances include amorous flirtations with a wealthy, lonely woman, estranged from her husband, and a frivolous Bohemian artist.
The title of this biting and deeply cynical novel about the beginning of World War II among the “smart set” of aristocrats in England comes from a translation of a Chinese epigram that gives the following cynical advice quoted and translated by Lin Yutang in The Importance Of Living: “And a drunk military man should order gallons [of alcohol] and put out more flags in order to increase his military splendor.” As many writers do, the author (who despite his name was an Englishman [1]) made the comment that the characters in the book are not based on any real people.
Another great story centering around the character of Basil Seal. I read a commenter who likened Bertie Wooster to a juvenile delinquent frat boy, and Basil Seal to a criminal. Not a bad comparison. I've become quite a fan of Waugh's novels and only have a few more to go. I find them all to still be laugh out loud funny. Basil's schemes reach a new low in this novel, and how his social standing allows him to constantly escape is frustrating to the point of hilarious. Recommend to all
"...and a drunk military man should order gallons and put out more flags in order to increase his military splendour." --quoted by Lin Yutang in The Importance of Living, and by Evelyn Waugh in the frontispiece of this delicious satire.We rejoin the idle, scheming Basil Seal in the autumn of 1939, as the second World War is breaking out across Europe and all of England is mobilizing.
Waugh wrote this book in real time; it came out in 1942, so the voices and attitudes are those of the upper class that were part of his daily round.

i left this book on the train today, with 50 pages to go. so have i read it? mostly. will i finish it? not until fate sends another used copy my way, but i read enough to look forward to reading more of evelyn waugh: measured and urbane, with a knack for sparkling dialogue-- and it all feels surprisingly hip and ridiculously relevant given that it's a book written in the late 40s about late 30s.
Not sure why I enjoy Waugh's books so much since they are such a product of the time and place (neither of which are my own), but I guess it has to do with how good the prose is. I suppose it is also comforting to read someone's critique of an era that they view with such contempt, considering how worthy of scorn our own generation is.
England in the first days of the Second World War. Basil Seal, ne'er-do-well scion of a good family, wants to do his part for the war effort, but no good regiment will have him. In the meantime he's got a great racket going with three orphans so ghastly that people are willing to bribe Basil to avoid taking them in as evacuees. Waugh's usual sharp satire.
One of the most neglected pieces of satire in the 20th century. This book is hilarious and cringe-inducing, often at the same time. The writing and the structure are perfect: Waugh at his satiric best.
Is financial mismanagement completely to blame when you're a union worker with a guitar in hock and your girl works at a diner yet you're livin' on a prayer?
and a drunk military man should order gallons and put out more flags in order to increase his military splendor.A second quote from Yutang applies equally to the work of Waugh and Trump:A little injustice in the heart can be drowned by wine; but a great injustice in the world can be drowned only by the sword.Yet Milbank's critique of Trump refers to the Classical Roman triumphal parades, sans the ego check:There’s only one problem with this plan, as I see it.
We learn where Basil ends up, more or less, and so too for his friends, enemies and acquaintances.Problems with the book are its place in time, which was 80 years ago, along with contemporary British military jargon and acronyms.
Like Dickens and so many other English authors many of the names are sarcastic; some derive from Cambridge-area town names (Trumpington, where I lived for a year, and Grantchester, location of a new detective series and also the location of “The Orchard,” a wonderful spot famous for its tea and scones and a favorite spot of intelligentsia from Rupert Brooks, Bertrand Russell, Alan Turing to the Monty Python gang).In sum, I had a hard time “getting into” the book because early on it seemed to be more a series of character assassinations of the British upper crust, but as I reached toward the end, the pace picked up.
(Waugh wrote this one after Scoop, which is one of the funniest things I’ve ever read.) Put Out More Flags, set between Hitler’s invasion of Poland and the fall of France, skewers the ineptitude of bureaucracy in the face of real crises, the imperturbable self-regard of fashionable intellectuals, and the ordinary bumps and mishaps of army life.
Characters from other books pop up, too, especially Decline and Fall, which I’ve read, and Vile Bodies, which I haven’t.
I haven’t read it yet but look forward to it.Going to revisit this one after I’ve finished the rest of Waugh’s corpus.
Epigraph for  Put Out More Flags“A man getting drunk at a farewell party should strike a musical tone, in order to strengthen his spirit .
and a drunk military man should order gallons and put out more flags in order to increase his military splendour." - Chinese Sage, quoted and translated by Lin Yutang in The Importance of Living.
“A little injustice in the heart can be drowned by wine; but a great injustice in the world can be drowned only by the sword.” - Epigrams of Chang Ch’ao; quoted and translated by Lin Yutang in The Importance of Living.
Waugh demonstrates an artistic turning point in PUT OUT MORE FLAGS. His satire becomes particularly acerbic and the tone and subject of this novel is far more serious than his previous novels. Basil Seal continues to be an uproarious and distasteful character, but the only one who is suited for success in the new world of the modern era. This is not the best introduction to Waugh, but I would recommend reading this to any fan of satire or the mid-20th c. English novel.
Great! Wish I could read more between the lines here because apparently I, to begin with, lack some historical background. However, the book makes itself a good introduction to Waugh’s world despite the fact it’s his sixth story and the mentioned characters make their debut earlier. But that’s some damn good satire at the expense of war and god, I’ve been missing some Catch22-tier of war insanity as the main theme
"We designed a city which was meant to be seen in a fog. We had a foggy habit of life and a rich, obscure, choking literature...out of the fog we could rule the world; we were a Voice, like the Voice on Sinai smiling through the clouds. Primitive peoples always choose a God who speaks from the clouds...The fog lifts, the world sees us as we are, and worse still we see ourselves as we are."
Very funny as usual. Really enjoyed reading the return of Basil and his wartime antics are just as bizarre as you'd expect. Took me a fair while to read because I've just started my graduate medicine degree but I'm really glad I found the time to read it. Waugh is always such a great autumnal read!
A/UN - E. Waugh - 4.5/5 - Wry arch biting scathing upper class take on WWII, with serious compassionate undertones.
A black satire, subtly perfused with an empathy for some of the characters, born, presumably, of the author's intimacy with the British upper crust.
