https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77244.Lake_Wobegon_Days
We have Michael Chabon, Jonathan Franzen, Brett Easton Ellis, Don (the Don) De Lillo and, making a surprise comeback, Carson McCullers!!(Mild applause)Chicago Symphony plays a quick burst of the theme tune from Circus Boy starring Mickey DolenzThe five authors strut about the ring, all dressed in evil looking leather outfits.
Easton rushes over and says "Leave it, Don, it's only one of those crappy goodreads idiots, We'll get them later."BOY GEORGE : Okay, Meine Damen und Herren, Mesdames et Messieurs, seconds away, Round One!Bell : Ting!GK : Well, it has been a quiet week in Lake Wobegon, my home town, the little town that time kind of forgot to remember to forget.
Although I liked this book ok, I really wanted to like it more.
The stories are cute, homespun tales of life in a small town in Minnesota during the 60's?
I'm not actually sure and that's one of the problems I had with this book.
I'm pretty sure the intention was to show the way life doesn't change much in small towns, but that's not actually true.
The nostalgic eye may see it that way, but when you take off the rose colored glasses you can see changes.
A small town can only sustain so many people before it is forced to adapt.
I'm amazed that Garrison Keillor is seen as the written equivalent of Norman Rockwell; His stories are only nostalgic if you aren't paying attention. The Lake Wobegone of his childhood is a dark, oppressive place, where the laughs are generally at someone's expense and everlasting embarrassment. For those of us who identify, the grim humour and beautifully rendered stories evoke not nostalgia, but a satisfaction that those years are long past.
This story is like something out of a Norman Rockwell painting. Even though there were some tidbits of interesting history here it was a little long and tedious. I much prefer these stories told in smaller portions over his live radio broadcast, 'A Prairie Home Companion'.
Just amazing. The consummate storyteller. My full review will be on my booktube channel at http://Youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
Picture me sitting on a train reading this book, getting to the passage where the boys are in the classroom at lunchtime and the headteacher farts nearby and acts as if nothing happened.
Gary makes his friend fall to pieces with laughter because the teacher demands to know what is so funny, and Gary says something like "it smells like a badger fart".
The effect on his friend - I think he says something like: ”I’ve never had such an impressive(explosive?
I had to close the book and stop looking at the phrase ‘yarked up some more pudding’ because every time I read it it set me off again.
As a child of the 60s, I have gotten used to books having to be dark and meaningful.
Happy endings are rare and suspect.
So it is with pleasure that I discovered Garrison Keillor's books.
He makes me smile, sometimes nostalgically, but sometimes just out of clear enjoyment of someone saying what I've always felt but never knew how to put into words.
I encourage readers to give this book a chance.
How anyone can read about Lake Wobegon's citizenry and not love this book is beyond me.
A church named "Our Lady of Perpetual Responsibility"...you KNOW that's hysterically funny and right on the mark.
A friend picked it up and asked me to buy it saying it's good and humorous.
I liked the writing.
A lot of colloquial stuff one would miss if not native or is not alert enough while reading.
I may have missed myself a lot.
It's a journey back to the time when Norwegians came to Wobegon and built it slowly.
Though it's mostly nostalgic, it is not emotional.
He knows about his neighborhood like he has a hidden spy planted in every household.
I especially liked the second half, it's more retrospective and tells interesting tales.
But they are just too few and far between to make the idea of reading this novel from cover to cover enticing.If you absolutely love Keillor's tales of Lake Wobegon, then perhaps this book is for you (judging by the multitude of positive reviews in existence for the novel).
A few zingers, for you though, because if nothing else, Mr. Keillor can do a bang up job at making a point clear or making something mundane, funny (and hey, this way, you don't have to read the book):- " .
God would know I didn't mean it."- " .
I *struggled* through the first hundred pages - really, I didn't need to know what a fictional town was like in the 1600s!
But 100 pages?!
People, please.(3/24/08): It's Garrison Keillor.
I need something light, after "The Liar's Club." This should do it.
First I started reading it a couple of years ago, but I got so confused in the first few pages' footnotes about how many meters apart everything in town was that I thought it was going to be a boring book and quit.
Then I would have to stop and explain to my wife why I'm laughing.
Thanks for spending all the time and thought it took to create this book.
My wife and I saw you here the other year--not when it was 110 degrees, but the time after that.Your fan, Eric S.
I'm going to have to take a break on this.
I'm only on page 148 & I'm totally bored with it.
It's taken me 2 days to read that much.
So. I'm going to start another book & read this one little-by-little I guess.
This book really did nothing for me.
I pretty much had to force my way though it.
I admit, there were funny parts, but getting to them was pretty painful.
I kept reading because it came to me so highly recommended by my mom & we usually have fairly similar tastes.
It really bored me.
lolol.Of course we do not experience the deep, dark, hibernating winters and I had a good belly-laugh for many of the descriptions in the book, like this one: "Out on the country road, you can see Norwegian bachelor farmers have hung out their sheets.
In one second, he distributed the box of popcorn over six rows of seats."The book is about a community of about 800 people living in Lake Wobegone, a non-existent town, describing their history, hardships, humor, religions, traditions, thoughts, idiosyncrasies, everything in a lot of detail.
In his first Lake Wobegon novel, Garrison Keillor introduces us to his semi-autobiographical world of memory.
Instead, you have a feeling that the author himself is just as torn between the two views.Keillor’s first novel carries all the trademark humor that fans of The Prairie Home Companion have come to expect.
Keillor has the framework in place, but he is still fleshing out the mythology that we have come to call Lake Wobegon - “where all the women are strong, all the men are good looking, and all the children are above average.” His greatest gift is his ability to make you feel part of this "worn-in" community of characters.
The emotion of his work is not so intense as to threaten, only to tug gently at the heartstrings, or even once in awhile, inspire a good belly-laugh.
My spouse could relate to all of that,and if you have a taste for vintage Americana, or think you may, and if for some reason you have not yet been exposed to Keillor's work, this is the very best place to start.
His somewhat satirical take on a small town, his own hometown - possibly, I still can't figure out if this is a work of fiction or not, and frankly I don't mind - reminds me of stephen leacock's sunshine sketches of a small town, nostalgia and humour, pride in one's hometown, made up or real.
It is the temple of family life, and the sacred preserve of the luxurious custom known as “visiting.” Compare it to the barbarity of the “business lunch,” the hideous conversational burden of the cocktail party, and the prison that is the formal dinner, the porch visit shines with civility."
The movie led me to the radio show, which was always great fun when I had the time to listen.
This book, about the fictional Lake Wobegon that Keillor created and would talk about in monologues during the radio broadcast, is a great trip into small town, Midwestern life.
Instead, there are individual segments of the book that look at the history and goings on in the town through the eyes of its residents.
Keillor pokes fun at small town life, but never in a mean way.
While Keillor may be off the air now, I'm looking forward to reading more of his books.
I've never read Keillor before, started here, and likely will not try again.
It seems like the people who enjoy his writing are those who grew to love him on the radio, and I've never heard him speak.This isn't a novel, so much as a bunch of facts and stories about a fictional American town.
It's a long rambling reminiscence with few recurring characters, no coherent trajectory and no discernible point whatsoever.
There are some giggle-worthy sentences, but this just isn't funny enough to be considered a satire, which explains why some people see this as a cozy read and miss Keillor's point, which was...um...
I read it to be impressed again by the virulence of the 95 Theses of a disaffected modern young guy rebelling against the constraints of small-town life, accusing his family and the community of innumerable offenses against joie de vivre, which has crippled his ability to life life fully in the larger world.
More blackly pointed was the late chapter on the religious revival, which really captured for me the hideousness of that kind of melodramatic proselytizing, but also the attraction such bullshit has for small-town life deprived of drama.I found it surprisingly slow to read, though I am not sure why.
I feel like I should either give this 1-Star for being boring/pointless/smug twaddle, or 5-Star for being a masterpiece of observation/eternal truth/great american novel, buuut... I can't get excited enough about it either way - there were some amusing/touching parts and some passages that I just skipped cos they didn't seem to add anything; impressed by the craft/ambition, annoyed by the mixed messages (repressive or idyllic - you decide... and no, it can't be both). So 3.
In the movie, Beetlejuice, you know when the couple goes into town so he can pick up supplies for his model, and the old barber sitting in front of his window is talking on and on endlessly? Yeah. The barber wrote a book.
(I believe the best known expression about Lake Wobegon is that it's a town where all the women are good-looking and all the men are above average, though I don't know where that's from - it's not in this book.)I will say, I found the political and religious commentary kind of interesting, and I think Keillor (whose attitude to people who don't share his own religious views ranges from poking-fun-but-not-in-a-nice-way to just-short-of-bigoted) walks a very fine line.
It's essentially the same thing, but in writing — a lot of meandering vignettes with very good descriptions of small town characters and small town life, much of it universal, quirky, humorous, and sad, a very nostalgic feeling sprinkled throughout.There isn't any huge plot driving the book or overarching theme or message.
In the end, you come to love the characters Keillor grew up with, too.This book is best read slowly, perhaps out loud to someone you love — probably an ideal waiting room read, as it's easy to put down when something else comes up and easy to pick up again when you're free.
One footnote goes on for 25 pages as a man writes 95 theses regarding his upbringing which he never gets around to nailing to the door of the Church because he wouldn't want to ruin such a fine piece of wood.
So the theses end up in the To-Do box of the tired journalist who never gets around to publishing it because he lost three pages of the theses and some were also made unreadable due to the coffee rings.Lots of cute little stories about a town where smarts don't count for much.
Sometimes I will travel through small towns and think about what it must be like to live there or I will see people whose faces or actions make me wonder what their story is...reading this book was very satisfying in as much as it catered to such wondering.Keillor is a very good spinner of stories and creator of quite captivating characters.
However, while reading I sometimes felt kind of like I do when reading People magazine or some such pry-into-the-lives-of-others publication---kind of voyeuristic---finding out too much information----looking behind too many closed doors.There were some beautiful insights into the human experience---some insightful descriptions---some spot-on observations.
Three weeks!
It seemed like I endured it.Lake Wobegone did not resonate with me.
I will be seeing Keillor in a few weeks.
My perception has been that he is a masterful storyteller, Lake Wobegon being his magnus opus.Storytelling is supposed to be compelling.
Long descriptions that would work well to set up a story, but the story never came.Keillor writes well.
But for much of the book I was lost in why I was reading.
There was nothing to hold onto.I am willing to chalk it up that it is I who missed the boat on this book.
I will not be scrambling to read more Keillor .
Although Keillor did really well articulating small town Protestant life in the Midwest, he made the book WAY too long to hold my interest.
The novel seemed like a disjointed work of short stories or essays instead of a believable whole.
At times I wasn't sure who was the narrator or where the story/ies was/were going.
Despite these setbacks, I found myself laughing at the second half of the book a lot more than the first.
Once Keillor got past the uninteresting (and unfunny) early settlement history of Lake Wobegone, the book was a lot more digestible, albeit in very small doses.
It's good to go back and reread a book that's brought me so much pleasure in the past.
Later Wobegon books may have drifted towards the slight, but I remain convinced that this is a work of genius.
Maybe as a Norfolk man I recognise my own people in these Midwesterners, but I think anyone would find something in these characters' obsessions with their own, small worries that resonates.
This is neither a rose-tinted yearning for simpler times, nor a condemnation of them, but rather a cautionary warning about thinking we're really any different to those we look down on.
Where Berry's novels cut deeply to the core of American identity, Keillor seems to make light of our small towns across the Midwest.
I couldn't stop laughing out loud at the tales he spins.
This is much different than the tales of a dying farming community in rural Kentucky, and less scary, but it points out important aspects to an immigrated society.
Keillor tells history in a comical way and is very gracious to the small town folks of Midwestern society.
I'm glad to laugh at them, and glad to be one!

