https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18825.Money
The writing may be despicable, the characters detestable, but it unveils the ugliness of a society doomed in the mire of lust and money.
John Self is deplorable, but he tries hard to think.
Perhaps he is made up by John, so that he can still hear his own voice although trying hard to smother it.
Then I shout ...He tries reading books in order to be able to talk to Martina.
Though he isn’t very smart, but he knows he is missing something in life which can be grasped by reading books.
I loathed this book, especially its reekingly horrid, brain-damagingly idiotic mess of an ending, which felt like watching a drug-addicted alcoholic trainwreck you've seen self-destructing for years finally have his royal rock-bottom meltdown into utter psychosis, destitution, and multiple organ failure."But Jess!" you might be yelling.
So it couldn't have been all bad -- no, it was bad, it was worse, but it was memorably so.Plus there's this paragraph in here* that still makes me laugh out loud when I think about it, which I do probably at least every three weeks.So upon further reflection, I am upping it a star to two, not because "it was ok," but because it so totally wasn't.
The highest amount of capital I have ever accrued amounts to approximately two thousand British pounds, and after reading Money: A Suicide Note from Martin Amis, I can also state in all conviction – that will do quite nicely for me.
It would seem at this point that the bookworm voice of Amis is breaking through the narrative here, and he lectures a little through his character that there is a kind of currency – intellectual currency – money just cannot afford.
Consider my previous rating "pilot error.")As an aside, tho, if any Goodreads Developers happen to be reading this: they should consider developing and releasing into the wild another star, a discretionary sixth star -- specifically, the power to harness such a star (in extraordinary situations only) for the purpose of reviewing those rare few books that are just thermonuclearly great.
Perhaps this new sixth star should be six-pointed, in order to symbolize the number six, as well as maybe Jewishness in some way.
Along the way, he also meets a writer named Martin Amis, and he’s hounded by threatening phone calls from someone who claims that John ruined his life.
All the while he spends vast amounts of money to support his lifestyle and buy his way out of trouble.Alcoholic John is completely clueless as to what a massive asshat he is and can’t understand anyone not motivated by greed.
He’s that drunken fucktard you hope doesn’t sit next to you on the plane, but if he does, you’ll have stories to tell your friends for hours.The reckless adventures that John has frequently end in humiliation for him, although he’s not always smart or sober enough to understand that he should be embarrassed.
The customer is holding a folded piece of paper in his left hand.
He's famous.John Self: Yes.Reader: Doesn't he have enough money?
If I read the note, it will be the end of the novel.Reader: What’s wrong with that?John Self: It’ll be the end of me as well.Reader: Oh, right.
Is there any way we could make it last longer?John Self: Yes.Reader: How?John Self: You could give Martin some money.Reader: I don’t have any more money.John Self: I can’t be much of a character then.Reader: Hey, you’re a real character.
A real gentleman.Reader: What are you doing?John Self: I’m going to read the note.
Il piacere (mancante)Ricordo di avere visto qualche anno fa a teatro uno spettacolo di Alessandro Bergonzoni, comico famoso che, testuale da Wikipedia, "sviluppa i temi comici che lo caratterizzeranno nella sua figura di artista: l'assurdo comico, il rifiuto del reale come riferimento artistico e la capacità di giocare col linguaggio per creare situazioni surreali paradossali".Mi sedetti alla mia poltrona in platea, attentissimo e pronto per la visione di uno spettacolo che si preannunciava divertente.Dopo un minuto ero pancia a terra dal ridere.Dopo cinque ridevo alla grande.Dopo dieci ridacchiavo.Dopo venti dormivo alla grande.Dello spettacolo ricordo solo la scomodità delle poltrone, nemmeno un cuscino su cui appoggiare la testa.Ecco, questo è l'effetto che mi ha fatto Money.


I made an unwise choice here.
I found him empty in "spirit", didn't go with his life style, neither was I taken with the form of the writing, as it lacked, to me, any sense of art or beauty.
So the book has been despatched to the "clouds" in Kindle to enjoy eternity in the ether.Normally the reviewers are very good and I can be persuaded to follow their way of thinking and decide that I need to read a certain book, but regrettably not on this occasion.
For the most part, Self is an oafish, sexist, slovenly, repulsive, sex-crazed, greedy, mean-spirited drunk, but Amis gifts his creation with enough intelligence and a dim sense of self-awareness to generate some genuine sympathy for the bastard as he goes through a 360-page gauntlet of humiliation.
Dumping the burden of blame on the celebration of self-absorption that was the greedy, plastic-sheened 1980s, Amis rolls up his sleeves and goes digging in the cultural refuse clogging up the kitchen sink and pulls out all the stops to make this novel go BANG!
My first time to read a Martin Amis book and definitely will not be the last.Despite the many references that probably only Londoners or New Yorkers (two settings of the story) might be familiar with, the staccato narration and John Self's vicious vices (those I cannot relate with except of course good food), the playful tone and the narration towards the end are simply brilliant.
What I am trying to say is this: you have to read all the pages to appreciate the book's riveting beauty.
I don't see Barry Self any more because he owes me money." Reason: I can substitute my friends' names in those statements.
Not for the fainthearted or easily shocked - but if you don't fall into one of those categories, an absolutely first-rate comic novel. Impossible to forget John Self, surely one of the most unattractive anti-heroes ever.
Life is an aggregate, an aggregate of all the lives that have ever been lived on the planet Earth." Ultimately, John Self is responsible for the pain of every sin he commits which intrigue by virtue of their seemingly infinite variety -- how can one man inherit so much chaos and suffer such crisis over one midlife?
At one point the pornographic film producer, who considers himself an artist, discovers this: "But the clouds obey their natural functions and do not know or care how beautiful they are.
Fish out your wallets and pay the price in hard currency because "Money" by Martin Amis is absolutely priceless.
Martin Amis portrays the life of a certain John Self, a person obsessed with money, alcohol, food, drugs, pornography.
It is a table of prosperity of the beginning of the eighties disturbing as much by the excess and the abundance of money which allows this individual to be able to do what he wants, it is a despicable personage.
And yet, it's catchy and we arrive at the end of the 400 pages without realizing because as mentioned on the last page, the asset of this character is the sense of derision.
"La lettura è un'attività sopravvalutata, — disse. —Almeno quanto le donne in Shakespeare" Non basta qualche sana risata.Non basta qualche riflessione acuta e feroce.Non basta l'intelligenza dello scrittore.Per farmi apprezzare questa lettura.Troppo caricaturale.Troppo distruttiva.Troppo sarcastica.Fino a metà, anche anche. Ma arrivare in fondo una sofferenza.
Damned if I wasn't going to get my $2 worth!The first half of the book?
It took me a week to read the first half and two days to read the second.
Another thing, the more I read books set in New York City like this one and like The Bonfire of the Vanities, the more I realize that NYC is another country, another planet, a whole other culture from the place I grew up and live in: eastern Washington State.I'm not sure if I really needed "to read this before I die", but I don't regret the time spent.
Ho sempre grande ammirazione per gli autori che riescono a cogliere lo zeitgeist nel suo farsi.Money esce nel 1984 ed è ambientato nel 1981, la datazione è certa per le allusioni sparse al matrimonio reale tra Carlo e Diana.Johnny Self è un regista di spot pubblicitari con velleità di carriera hollywoodiana.
The palimpsest technique I laughed myself silly reading Martin Amis’s Money. On the bus on my way to work, or in the metro on my way to University, wherever I happened to start reading, I was bursting out laughing. And it was challenging to discover where the comedy came from: was it a genuine laughter fed by traditional techniques, so to speak, such as situation, language, names, characters? Or did it answer some subconscious expectations of mine with its fine parody not only of a world of mon
Let’s see.The world of the novel is seen through the eyes of its narrator, John Self, thirty-five, who, like all his generation (of the eighties, of all time) worships with his money (of which he has plenty) three gods, which are not only his reason of being but also his explanation for all zany situations he restores afterwards from disparate clues and pains in the ass (literally!) that give an incomplete but funny idea of what must have happened: I found a three-pack of condoms in my wallet, two joint-ends in my turn up, and a cocktail stick in my rug.
This book took me a LONG time to read, and the despicableness of the protagonist, John Self, had a lot to do with it.
I just couldn't get past how disgusting and loathsome he was, and didn't understand why anyone would want to waste their time reading about such an unlikable character.
After struggling through the first half, however, the second half gripped me and I found that I couldn't put it down.
This is dealt with so effectively that you find yourself unable to stop thinking about the story long after turning the final page.
Money is an entertaining social critique of societies obsession with the power derived from money. Later authors like Bret Ellis and Chuck Palahniuk echo some of the same sentiment. It's a great read, albeit a tad long-winded. I enjoyed the journey.
Many times Martin made me laugh outloud......I am having a very hard time deciding what kind of review to write for this....it's about Money,and how Money jades you,makes you a sinner, etc.
To me , this was not an easy read, but like I said, I am glad I read it,and I find Martin to be quite an interesting character....his friendship with Christopher Hitchens prompted me to read this book.
Martin's writing to me seemed more subtle, more subdued....intelligent writer,and for that I am glad I read the book.
I'd love to hear others' perspectives on this one,and see your reviews....I am still out and about on this one........
It was brilliant, nimble, sharp, hard, completely balls-out-nuts and pornographic (not really in the PORNporn way, but in the MONEYporn way--yeah, folks, listen to the book you won't understand till you listen to it).
If you put 'Money' together with Gaddis' JRand Wolfe's The Bonfire of the Vanities and then sprinkle it all with the vibe and intensity and amorality of Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow you begin to get the literary footprint of the financial crisis of 2008 AND a peepshow into how reading/listening to 'Money' feels.
Read: December 2017Any book where the author writes himself into the plot, then almost gets into a fight with his main character in a pub, is alright by me.3/5 stars
The experience of reading Money was sad, pathetic, funny—though I hated to laugh—shallow and stupid, then, just as I slipped into a careless ignorance and began to judge it, wrongly, glimmers emerged of rare depth and perceptiveness of certain segments of humanity, and although those segments are not interesting unto themselves, the painting of them here was slick and masterful.
The author set himself in the novel, just a bit player at first, but of course his character shines at the end.
Let Martin indulge himself, I thought, but what a cheap device....trust me, on hindsight, it worked in a way that was somewhat interesting.
I’m just going to come out and say it, John Self is the best character in literature written in the twentieth century; well to me he is anyway. The voice Martin Amis gives him is one of grit, lust, and obsession, a voice that’s true, real, hilariously comical and enlightening. I want to write a full review but I have a hangover from reading “Money”, so soon! I'm noting going to write full review.
If you're having girl problems Amis feels bad for you son,this book is so shit I can't be bothered to rhyme Hit me!
He also had another love interest, another female character who has her own money, and who may have loved him for what he is, but in the end he lost all these women.Why did John Self have a lot of money?
Read the book.Even with a lot of sex revolving around the still-moneyed John Self, you cannot find here any Harold Robbins-type of sex scenes.
In this paragraph, if I may cite an example, you would wonder what John Self was doing, whether he was walking or what [I quote it first without its last and final sentence:]:"As I walked home through streets the colour of oyster and carbon the air suddenly shivered and shook its coat, like a wet dog, like the surface of worried water.
1949), foi originalmente publicado em 1984, decorre entre Nova Iorque e Londres – nos tempos dos motins de Brixton e o casamento real de Carlos, Príncipe de Gales e Lady Diana Spencer.“Money/Dinheiro” começa com uma nota do escritor Martin Amis: “Este é um bilhete de suicídio.
Oh, dinheiro, eu amo-te."Ler o romance de Martin Amis em 2014, com uma temática que se mantém actual – o capitalismo desenfreado, os relacionamentos e ligações dominadoras e arrogantes entre pessoas, sem princípios ou escrúpulos – é revelador da sua qualidade literária e ficcional de um excelente escritor contemporâneo.
This is excess as art, and from the first paragraph it’s clear that Amis is a top shelf writer-his sentences are laser guided in their explosive evocation of John self’s doomed journey through the film, advertising and grotty nightlife worlds of 80s London and New York.Amis spews (a verb I don’t generally like to use, but considering the excessive drinking, eating and general grossness of Money it seems quite apt) great prose at a fantastic rate and his memorable quote ratio is about the same per page as other writers manage in entire books.
It’s a testament to Amis’ mad skills that despite all his awfulness Self is a strangely sympathetic character, and against my better judgement I found myself liking the guy.So far so good, and for two hundred or so pages I was enthralled.
