https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77366.The_Hero_and_the_Crown
First wave feminist novel The Hero and the Crown recognizes the intrinsic right for protagonist Aerin to have a say in the destiny of her country, regardless of her gender.Second wave feminist novel The Hero and the Crown illustrates how Aerin is the equal of any man in the patriarchal land of Damar - indeed, she is the equal of any man, anywhere.Third wave feminist novel The Hero and the Crown celebrates Aerin's sexuality, her ability to move beyond prescribed, essentialist notions of gender roles and to make decisions based on her own personal, individual needs and desires.Standpoint feminist novel The Hero and the Crown understands that many of the issues that confront Aerin are intimately related to Aerin's mixed-race and mixed-class status - and the ways that gender and race and class always intersect.Post-feminist novel The Hero and the Crown maintains that Aerin's struggle is not necessarily even a feminist struggle, that she has already achieved her- oh never mind.
ugh, post-feminism.
The young adult shelves and the nonfiction shelves might as well have been made of glass for all I noticed them.One year when I was in my early teens, the family was getting ready to go on the dreaded yearly camping trip.
Pick me!" And I did pick it, and I fell in love with it, and have loved it ever since.Now, as anyone who has read Robin McKinley knows, this is actually the prequel to The Blue Sword, but when I finally read that book a few years later I was so disappointed that it wasn't The Hero and the Crown all over again that it took me a long while to really warm up to it.
This one isn't rated for a reason... I don't really know what to rate it overall, and wish I could rate it in parts. I suppose I could average it out and give it three stars, but that doesn't seem to fit.So I'll rate it in my review, which is very long and rambling. The First Half: ***** I really liked it. The characters were likeable (or unlikeable if that's what they were meant to be) and everything flowed nicely. I really liked the main character, Aerin. She had spunk, for lack of a better wa
(Talat was a pretty cool horse too.)She also took on a job that was far from glamorous because she knew she could do it better than anyone else, and she worked hard to get to that point.She was cool, and the story was nicely building around her ability to make the best of what she had to work with.Then came her battle with the Maur...The battle itself was fine, and the immediate aftermath was too.
The way he was constantly dissing her family and homeland and the nice guy back home who had always treated her like the princess she was?
Tor is in love with her, but she’s too immature to figure it out.Aerin took a dare from a mean female cousin to consume a plant that would supposedly kill anyone but a member of the royal family, and this made her sick for months.
Tor is a major presence during those chapters, and there is no hint of any rival, so when Luthe first appeared I was startled—even though I knew from the imagery and tropes used that he would be Aerin’s suitor, and (view spoiler)[ ultimately she would return his love.
It's in the second half that lack of good characterization really kills the book for me.
Luthe, our mysterious man, is never really given much character or color, other than being a bit of a creeper, and then suddenly he becomes the romantic interest, and it's meant to be tragic that he and Aerin can't be together yet.
But if I'm never given enough characterization to understand Luthe, how am I supposed to care about him?
The second half says less and less about Aerin's mind and character as well, until at the end I can't figure out why she does anything she does and why I should care.
All the other fantasy I was reading featured boys tramping across pseudo-English countryside before being crowned as kings--and instead, here was an awkward, stubborn, hard-working girl who wanted to be able to value herself and prove her worth.
It's Aerin's perseverance and hard work, not what she's born with, that make her a hero.
The battles with the dragons kept my eyes glued to the page.
Aerin's education and love affair with Luthe seem to take place in 10 pages, when they could be 100.
The Hero and the Crown is a sort of distant prequel to Robin McKinley's Newberry Honor winner The Blue Sword.
She definitely has a lot of love for horses and knows them well.What I do not appreciate about this book, and maybe it's just a personal pet peeve of mine, is the romantic story line.
Nevertheless, The Hero and the Crown is a worthy contribution to YA fantasy literature and is one of a few books that portray strong heroines whose lives are not directed and defined by their hot brooding boyfriends but motivated by love for their country and loyalty to their people.
It's a classic quest/hero's journey tale, but it also incorporates some unusual elements very effectively.In 'The Blue Sword,' Aerin is a legend of history, a dragon slayer and wielder of a sword of magical powers.
In 'The Hero and the Crown' we meet Aerin and discover how she became a hero.The first half of the book is very self-contained.
Aerin's doggedness and use of the scientific method in figuring out how to eliminate them more efficiently is a rare and appreciated example of the value of methodical persistence in order to accomplish anything.
la vemos crecer y tratar desesperadamente de destacar y hacer algo por sí misma para finalmente encontrar su lugar.Me encanta Robin McKinley porque no tiene miedo de hacer sufrir a sus personajes y mostrarnos las consecuencias de todos sus actos, durante una gran parte del libro la protagonista está enferma e incluso sufre una depresión...
Hay cosas que quizás hubiera preferido de otra manera, y alguna laguna en la que me perdí por culpa de mi inglés, pero en general me parece una historia enormemente original dentro del género tratando todos los tópicos de una manera diferente.***Ojalá ALGUIEN se anime a traducir sus libros, y por favor que pongan un buen traductor, porque la prosa de McKinley se las trae
I loved this book as a kid and I love it still as an adult. It's one of those books that's so much a part of my life that it's hard for me to believe that not everyone has read it. Maur still creeps me out, Talat still makes me teary, and Aerin's surka rash as she climbs the tower remains the best thing ever.
young princess who feels like a misfit, teaches herself to fight dragons, befriends animals left&right, finds love twice, overcomes a villain from her family's past, follows her known duty rather than pursue unknown emotion...it's really not as dry as I'm summarizing.beautifully and dreamily written.
I remember reading this and wanting to fight dragons.
a big surprise when I re-read years later and still enjoyed it, still found the heroine a sympathetic character.
good messages about not taking anyone's crap and actively working to make things happen for yourself instead of waiting around.i just finished reading Twilight and what a contrast - weak, whiny, undone by selfishness portrayed as strength - HatC is better by far.
“Her destiny, like her love, like her heritage, was double.”Damar is a precarious duology in that the second book in the series is actually a prequel to the events described in the Blue Sword.
The book is divided into two parts; the first one being a retrospection giving the background on important events in Aerin life, whereas in the second the proper story unfolds.
We will never know because the book is solely focused on Aerin and other people exist only to give her a proper background.
Even the way Aerin proceeds to save the world is self-centred.
I got a copy of this in 6th or 7th grade.
I've read it so many times that it is being held together by a rubber band.
I enjoyed it because it was the first real fantasy book I read where the hero is a young woman.
She's not just the sidekick, but the hero.
She's also flawed and not supergirl or ravishing beautiful.
In many ways, it is the perfect book for any quiet girl simply because a loner, an outcast proves herself needed.
Perhaps the success of the book among girls is tied to that facet of the story.
It's full of all the kinds of things I love: love stories that aren't just simple love-at-first-sight or we-grew-up-together-and-now-we're-in-love, but something more complicated that that; a world with a history and a future, outside of what we've got; a heroine who works through flaws and barriers to become a hero.
Maybe you have to do a little more work to really appreciate the history of the world, because McKinley does nothing so clumsy as sit you in a history lesson with Aerin to learn about it.Overall, given the subtlety of parts of this and the wistfulness of the love stories, I'm not entirely sure how I'd have taken this as a child.
Until the story's first climax, McKinley gives us everything: a relatable, charismatic, admirable heroine who's so scrappy and determined we can't help but root for her all the way; a mystery; adversity; a worthy love interest; looming doom; etc.
Our heroine trades scrappy for serene, mystery and adversity find their basis in random coincidence and are explained away as "it's magic!", the love interest is forsaken in favor of some Mary Sue new guy who we're supposed accept suddenly as her soul mate, and there's a thrown-together magical solution for every evil force for which there was utterly no planning or foreshadowing.
The book that made me say, I want to do that, I want to be her (both Aerin, the Hero, and Robin, the Author). This is the book that made me love fantasy, dragons, everything.
Her father is a good, righteous king and her mother died shortly after giving birth to Aerin.
As Aerin gets older, she doesn't develop these powers and decides to start hunting dragons in order to make herself useful.
It's a perfect blend on real life elements (cousins who fight a lot, a girl who feels alone, a bit of romance) with some interesting fantasy twists (look at their magical powers, when will she develop hers, dragons are nearby).
But then it becomes too fantasy-genre and suddenly, it's not Earth with a blend of magic.
This is the first time I've read this book as an adult—mostly because I love, love, love The Blue Sword and this book kind of goes out of its way to undermine expectations set by that book for Damar's past.
I'll still flag it, though, because even though practically everybody I know has read the book, it's just plain courtesy to do so.(view spoiler)[ Having such a poor memory means that I was surprised afresh by Aerin falling in love with Luthe.
This is McKinley's biggest play against expectation because anybody who read The Blue Sword knows that she is destined to marry Tor—who we already have seen loves her dearly (and suspect that she loves him back).
Though the wizard isn't in the first half, the world created in this coming-of-age tale and the characters who people it are interesting and likeable.
There's a bit much girl-and-her-pony stuff for my interest, but I wanted to know what would become of these characters.
The growing love that Tor feels for Aerin is infused with the right amounts of sweetness and forbidden love torment.
Aerin's dragon-slaying is interesting and exciting.
It was as if the author felt the conflicts introduced in the first half weren't enough (they were), and created a second story to resolve it.
Mmm. This is a confusing story, many times I didn't know what was going on. There were other occasions when it was unclear whose POV (Point of View) I was hearing, it chopped and changed suddenly.There could have been more character development and also more relationship development between characters.For me this story had no sparkle, and it could have been really great. Mind you this is only my opinion and from other reviews I see I am not in the majority about this story.
Her father loved and married Aerin's mother after his first wife died childless.
But being from the North, of unknown heritage and lineage, suspicions of witchcraft at worst and being a commoner at best, followed Aerin like a fog of misery.
Aerin wrestled with the trappings of her princess-hood, losing the battle with gentility and sought solace in the royal library and her father's retired lame warhorse, Talat.
For starters, and against all odds and her father's wildest nightmares, Aerin and Talat master the art of dragon slaying.
Aerin proved to be an inspiring character, one I could have warmed up to and appreciated in my own adolescence.
I especially liked the realistic portrait of love and the choices that sometimes come with it towards the end.
It felt like a fairy tale, an old tale many times told, with a certain underlying gravitas.
Well-written doesn't exactly cover it.
Well-written on many levels perhaps describes it better.There were inconsistencies which almost nagged, until I realized that I was probably looking through Aerin's eyes, and she couldn't be a reliable witness, given all she's got to deal with.
Once I got that straightened out in my head, I settled back and enjoyed the journey.
Before she went crazy, Robin McKinley wrote some of the most awesome young adult fantasy out there.
Her heroines were smart and plucky, with a bit of tasty pathos to keep things interesting.
Aerin, the main character of HATC, is a dragon-slayer in training, while remaining decidedly introverted and bookish and not quite the most coordinated chick in town.
She also has a love triangle (with SEX!)involving her second cousin and an immortal wizard dude.
Needless to say, she was quite the hero for me in grammar school.I still hold out hope that a film will be made of this book.
3.5 Dragon Killer StarsEhhh...I have such a hard time reviewing fantasy books ---- saying what I really mean, but I'll give it a try.This book didn't knock my socks off but I didn't not dislike it. It was good ---- a few times I had a hard time understanding what was going on because it seemed like the author skipped around without explaining in detail.Other than that - this was a good YA Fantasy book that read quickly.
I cannot be impartial.There are many reasons why I love this book, not least among them being the fact that it was actually the first Robin McKinley book I ever read, back in the days when I browsed library shelves at random and begged my parents into buying books for me, before I knew much about what I was really doing, and I count myself eternally lucky to have stumbled upon this book because it is, it really is, writing as art.
I can't say I identify with her completely, as I'm a very different person, but there are aspects of her personality (read: stubbornness and attitude) that are very like me, and so I loved the character.
I have to say that Aerin probably inspired most of my tom-boyish activities as a child, and certainly helped to spawn my life-long love of fantasy, magic, and swords.
Every time I go to the bookstore I search for new McKinley books first, and it's all because of this novel.It's theoretically a pre-quel (to The Blue Sword), and it reads like a dreamy fable.
Blog | Pinterest | Twitter | Booktube | Booklikes | Instagram | Google+ | TumblrI like what this review points out about the book. I miss these old fantasy narratives; even though they break the axiom of "show, don't tell," everything feels so purposeful and beautiful and controlled in a way that's kind of rare to read nowadays. I also love getting to see the main character age in the same book, as she grows to overcome the trials presented.If you're a fan of Kristin Cashore or Megan Whalen Turner, I suggest that you check out this book.---Read-along with Chessie!
I suppose I am unwilling to leave Robin McKinley's world too soon, so I extend my stay as long as I can.The legendary Aerin from The Blue Sword is a solitary young woman in The Hero and the Crown.
She grows up in her father's castle surrounded by those who hold her and her ancestry in suspicion and must find her place among them.McKinley has a gift for creating heroines who do great, heroic things in a completely human way.
I love how Aerin, approaching what she knows is a great evil that she by herself cannot defeat, is distracted from her doom by an allergic itch at her throat.
This book is an old favorite of mine, though this is the first time in many years that I've gone back to it. So it was interesting seeing it as a writer this time. It has an almost mythic quality to it that I think might frustrate some younger readers today, yet I think the style is a good choice for the story, and it still brought me to tears several times. (Oh, Talat.) (Also, I still want a giant hunting cat of my very own.)
Some of them are addressed, at least partially, in The Blue Sword, but a lot of them are just left for your imagination to gnaw on and restlessly demand MORE!So given all of that why is this book still so high on my comfort read list?
It's very hard not to fall in love with the people of Damar.
In the end Aerin is a complex woman of many loves and many worlds, and not quite as human as she once was...but through sacrifice and will she wins her way and reminds the reader that strength comes from a lot of places, mostly from within.
