https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/404397.Around_the_Year
I LOVE Beskow's artwork. This one offers more splendid selections and seasonal work, too. It's fun to read a collection of poetry about each month of the year for the "New Year" (okay, I'm a few weeks late, but it was checked-out at the library!) I admit that I wasn't really impressed with the poetry, but perhaps some of the original charm was lost in the English translation. Get this for the artwork, though!!!
First published in 1927 as Årets Saga, this poetic celebration of the seasons from one of Sweden's most beloved picture-books artists is - as anyone familiar with Elsa Beskow's work would know to expect - lovely to look upon, with beautiful artwork.
If only I could read them in the original Swedish!With a poem for every month - as well as some introductory pieces on the hours and days - Around the Year has the potential to be such an outstanding book, that I'm rather disappointed not be able to appreciate it more than I do.
Still, Elsa Beskow fans will find much here to appreciate, with gorgeous artwork that captures the enchantment of each month of the year.
Not my favorite poems but I love poems about the seasons. The illustrations were interesting and sentimental.
Riktigt söta bilder och rim.
Another Elsa Beskow book.
It's a sweet read, with poems about the days of the week, the months of the year, etc...
Some of the illustrations are just darling, like the star children in January, and the whole berry celebration in August.
Some of the translated poetry is really lovely, but a few of the poems need work...
May is my favorite:May comes but once a year,the dancing month,the sky light and high,the birch trees bursting.May-daisy time, and cowslipand primroseand harebelland dancing anemones.Deep down in the meadow grass,they're all dancingwith delight,lily-of-the-valleynodding,ringing her bells,the silver trunkslordly and slim,their branches and silvery twigsdancingtooto the tune of Spring.
Not 100% sure I want this book - sort of silly poems, but illustrations are cute/beautiful​
x2
I love Beskows books! When I read them to my children they get excited to go outside.
