https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28597.Prometheus_Rising
This book had some interesting information regarding psychology.
It is a VERY quick read, and it DOES have interesting ideas in it, so it is recommended as a nice "bonus card" in anyone's psychology collection.Starting with 5 stars:-1 for unwarranted claims-1 for only half of the book being interesting [the first half]-1 for not having all that much information from which to build a synthesisMore in-depth review:1.
It's view on psychology I found a bit limited and boxy, I also found the authors treatment of the higher circuits to be vague and poorly described/correlated.2.
I haven't read anything else of RAW's besides Quantum Psychology- but I'm a huge fan already.
I will say that I liked Quantum Psych better-- it just seemed more focussed and a more productive read.
This was fun-- but I think I would not have enjoyed it as much if I had read this first instead.
The exercises at the end of the chapters aren't as likely to be completed as those in Qua.Psych., but they're just as thought provoking.I got the book specifically for its explanation of" brain-washing" and how human "robots" are created-- and it definitely lived up to my expectations.
Ch.10 was a lot of fun.That guy's comment below mine sums it up: "Read it...and open your eyes."

The soapbox man wrote another book about drugs, neuroscience, psychology, philosophy, sociology, human development, and some sort of quantum bullshit.I really wanted to like this book.
Despite being in its, like, millionth printing and having gone through revisions, it really shows its age with crazy notions about abnormal psychology, brain chemistry, evolution, and enlightenment (to name a few sore thumbs).
The exercises are inane, and I would strongly advise any author against using heavy sarcasm in print (the only exception being in satire...is this satire?
It could be filled with the wisdom of the universe; but, call me pedantic, I just can't swallow anything that reads like Dianetics.
Everyone with any interest in how the mind works and what the ultimate truth of reality is should absolutely give this a read; it's funny, thought provoking, wildly optimistic and a little scary in a few places.
I let it pass with RAW, though, since he doesn't make it the basis of the book, nor does he try to claim that anyone will fit neatly into the mold, only presents it as one of many matrices to view reality through.
Aside from all that, this is a book you need to read twice, maybe even many, many more times before you fully plumb it's depths.
This was one such book.One night a few weeks ago, I was browsing through my computer and came across a file about Robert Anton Wilson, and I realized that I didn't know a whole lot about the guy, so I grabbed a handful of his books, read through his Wikipedia entry, and picked one at "seemingly" random (It is more likely that I chose this one for the title, "Prometheus Rising", which has a wonderful ring to it).Anyone as mentally damaged as myself would stand to benefit from consuming this man's work.
Robert Anton Wilson manages yet again to pull the rug from right under my reality-tunnel.
It sounds like science fiction, but would most people living only a hundred years ago (let alone a thousand) have guessed the technologies (and current consensus reality-tunnel) we live with/in today?
Many may scoff or even cringe at the prospect of humans merging with technology, but it's been happening already for quite some time.
More intelligence is the only way to ensure advancement to the next circuit.Those who have read Robert Anton Wilson know what I'm talking about.
I regard this book as a masterpiece; R A Wilson manages to provoke the reader into mindblowing realizations about how we percieve our surroundings and how this effects our actions, by constantly skillfully playing with your thinking and fooling you into thought traps to prove his points.
Also the parts about brain washing was very interesting, and ofcourse amusing to read.
I found myself reading through this book with a constant silly smile on my face as Wilson is using humour to a great extent to keep your guard down for his little tricks.

misogynist garbage
Prometheus Rising is possibly less sensitive to the credibility of ideas than his model's progenitor.Wilson aptly covers his intellectual bankruptcy with a flood of statistics, quotes, and other honest-looking bits of info.
Although there are a handful of ideas with potential scattered throughout, the reader must spend more time extracting these from the gobbledygook than he or she will spend actually reading the text.It's hardly worth the effort.
And for all it's claims of revolution of the mind, Prometheus Rising has become dated only 20 years after its release.Skip this one.

IMHO, IT does not hold the test of time. Interesting in some aspects, funny at times, but in the end, IT feels like watching Metropolis... Currently, A too well understood and assumed Message. Maybe groundbreaking 50 years ago, but not any longer.
There were probably more (like the law legalizing pot in in the State of Oregon took effect on July 1st, 2015,) but these were the big headlines that hit the news...many, if not all, that may have shook up a lot of people's "reality tunnels" referred to in Robert Anton Wilson's book.
This book even mentioned synchronicities at a few points in one chapter....With that mention out of the way, I want to fast-forward and say this was another one of the author's books that kind of lost me in the end.
But with the little that I know about New Age mystical practices, I imagined how the 8-circuit theory he talks about could be superimposed over the chakra system.
Thinking that maybe the book is or is not true.This book is a crash course in outdated psychology models, but serves as an excellent jumping off point.
It pushes to reader to accept their own limited cognitive view and want something more.In that Prometheus Rising greatly suceeds.
The broad strokes of the content and the challenging perspective serve as a cleanser for the reader.Each chapter has exercises which i found to be an awesome addition and incredibly useful.
I saw it as compelling from start to finish.Prometheus Rising sure gave me a lot think about - that was the point.
Kuitenkaan nää todellisuustunnelit ei oo hakattu kiveen, vaan meidän on mahdollista muuttaa uskomuksiamme ja sitä miten todellisuuden näemme, hyvinkin radikaalilla tavalla.Päräyttävä kirja, "ajatuksia herättävä".
Paljon todella järkeviä ja perusteluja ajatuksia, mutta myös korkeelentosta ja villiä spekulaatiota ja lonkalta heitettyhjä ennusteita.
Älyttömän isot plussat siitä miten näin lyhyeen kirjaan mahdutettu niin paljon ja monia hyviä ajatuksia.
Myös rakenne oli todella hyvä ja muodosti ehyen kokonaisuuden.
Lisäksi niin tiivistä tavaraa, että aukeaa varmasti lukukerta lukukerralta paremmin.Lähdemerkintöjä oisin kaivannut useampaan kohtaan.
Lisäksi etenkin vikat luvut oli ronskisti liian lyhyitä ja jättivät mallin viimeisten tasojen esittelyn vähän huteriksi.
This book is an eye-opening analysis of Dr. Timothy Leary's eight circuits of the brain.
Wilson skillfully combines theories from Freud, Jung, ancient Sanskrit texts and other philosophers and scientists from all niches, and explains them in an easy to understand and often humorous manner while summarizing their differences to each other and their striking analogues to Dr. Leary's overarching physiological and psychological paradigm.
He relates historical anecdotes of mental epiphanies and enlightenment (Buddha, Jesus, Einstein, Mozart, etc.) and explains how these are all examples of the individual's transition to a higher brain circuit, which can be realized through societal conditioning, hypnosis, intense forms of yoga, hallucinogens, and brainwashing.
Robert Anton Wilson porusza w niej tyle tematów i zagadnień, że tak naprawde ciężko wyjaśnić to w kilku akapitach - czemu myślymi, w jaki sposób myślymy, co jest prawdą, a co nie?
Może nie ma boga?
A może jest.
A może to całe pisanie jest bez sensu?
Może autor próbuję nam powiedzieć, że wszystko jest wytworem naszej wyobraźni?
Albo jesteśmy produktem naszego kręgu kulturowego i wszystko czego się nauczyciliśmy w tej kulturzy służy temu, by spowolnić proces metamorfozy człowieka?
A może nie?
Być może kłamie lub jest prześmiewcą i pyszałkiem?
Być może.

As a person who enjoys interconnections between things, I've thoroughly enjoyed this book. Robert Anton Wilson (RAW) jumps between seemingly unrelated concepts with their underlying connections.RAW shows how humans can be brainwashed and how in the end it doesn't really matter as it's all about the journey and all path leads to Rome, eventually. He puts yoga, synchronicity, UFO sightings, akashik records, Jung's concept of the collective unconscious into his perspective, and it's a fascinating perspective. I knew religion as being hallucination of the masses, but didn't think of the concept of collective conscious or UFO sightings being the same.

This guy brings up a lot of interesting stuff that I hadn't heard before, maybe if I had had more of an education it would be old news to me, these different theories of mind, etc. but then there was a lot of stuff that I felt was more or less garbage, and nothing was substantiated other than by saying, like, "I'm a cool old hippy dude, trust me, I know what I'm talking about.." I need a little more. Entertaining-ish, though, and thought-provoking.
The book combines Timothy Leary’s Eight Circuit model of consciousness, psychological imprinting and conditioning theory, Gurdjief’s self-observation exercises, Quantum Mechanics, Yoga, Cybernetics, Freudian psychoanalysis, sociobiology, psychedelics, Alfred Korzybski’s general semantics and much more to construct a strange but enlightening lens for viewing the world and our place in it.
It tunes the brain into the non-local quantum communication system suggested by physicists such as Bohm, Walker, Sarfatti, Bell, etc.Prometheus Rising is a groundbreaking work that will make you rethink and reinterpret your belief systems and quite possibly transform your entire thought process from the ground up.
I was expecting more from this book, which is often touted as one of RAW's classic mega-works, and is recommended reading for many contemporary WMT/occult/fringe schools.
On closer reading though, I found the material to be too theoretical and dense in parts.
There are practical 'experiments' at the end of each chapter, however, I feel that RAW never gets to the core of issues of existence and what really plagues the human race.
I've read a few other RAW books (Cosmic Trigger trilogy etc), and they definitely are entertaining, creative and witty.
Still, worth a read for those with plenty of time and thinking energy up their sleeve.
Anybody interested in any way at all in spirituality and/or the society we live in should read this book.
It put into words many of the things I already thought but in a very easy to understand way, although I have to admit I didn't understand everything, yet, fully, but that isn't anything a second reading wouldn't correct.
I feel that R.A.W.'s insights a very close to the way I feel about a lot of things, things both spiritual and societal.
I find him to be very funny, and I always find humour a great way of explaining things, which is what he does, a lot.
The political climates of certain formerly advanced civilization nations make me wonder where the "responsible, intelligent adults", the "neurosomatic adepts," "the fifth-circuit adepts" are, what countries are fostering their development and creating an environment in which to thrive.I don't know that I could convince my friends to read this -- I suspect most of my friends are on a higher level of actualization and awareness, maybe they already have, but the four stars rating rests while I try to manifest meetings with psychonauts and these neurosomatic adepts and Aquarian conspirators R.A. Wilson claims exist, if they haven't all died out with Wilson, or are safely in other countries.
The revolution is complete, as Kuhn shows, only when a second generation, not hooked to the old imprint, is able to compare the two models and decides rationally that the newer one really does make more sense.- In the dialectic between nature and the socially constructed world, the human organism is transformed.
However, when I got the ebook I was very surprised to find that it is a very thought-provoking read.
The more that I read alternative literature like this, the stranger reality gets.
Here and there the author includes exercised to test theories that are outlined in the book.
Personally, I'm a sucker for any self-improvement/new-age book that includes exercises to test out in daily life.
One of the exercises tells the reader to take Zoom, which is some caffeine pill sold in the author's heyday that allegedly closely mimics cocaine.
Prepare for a very interesting read and re-discover what your mind is capable of.
This was the second Robert Anton Wilson book I ever read (the first being “Coincidance”), and ideally it should have been the first.
After reading it I began to plow through as many R.A.W. books as I could, and then Leary, and then Alli, and then Hyatt, &c.
These techniques are housed within Wilson’s own variation on the Leary 8-Circuit model of consciousness.After having read a number of books which utilize the 8-Circuit model I’m left with the feeling that “Prometheus Rising” is styled as both the Baptist and Episcopalian versions of the Leary Gospel.
While Leary’s own works (Info-Psychology, Exo-Psychology, Game of Life, Neuropolitique) serve as the Roman Catholic/Orthodox version.
However, if you can take away major themes and ideas of a work without getting caught up with the specifics of the model being presented, you will probably find this an enlightening thought experiment.
Ultimately, its about how humans map reality, interact with one another, and the way these attributes and relationships form the systems we produce and their feedback.
Just remember, the map is not the territory.I may very well be biased as the book covers a number of topics I spend a lot of time thinking about-- I can really relate to the way RAW thinks.I'll believe in anything!
