https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205981.The_Doubtful_Guest
it came seventeen years ago - and to this day it has shown no intention of going awayi assume there are plenty of parents who feel this way about their odd children - the alien, the other, the unrelatable who seems never to be leaving the nest and letting them get back to their lives already.and it is a total pain in the ass.
Gorgeous little book and immensely weird! Four stars plus, what an artist, Edward Gorey. Beautiful & supercreative absolutely superb, intriguing black & white drawings. Every drawing accompanied by a two-line rhyme. Love the dark drawings and elusive storylines of Gorey. I keep looking at the drawings, for more details... Out of this world!!
What would you do if an unwanted guest arrived at your house and moved in for 17 years. Well, this little story is about a very strange guest that looks like a penguin and he is very trying. Funny enough, the family is unable to oust him from their house.This was quirky for Edward and it was a fun little short story. I had a fun time with the story and art. Gorey is so Droll. This is the beauty of Gorey. Why tell a usual story when it can be so strange.
"Then they saw something standing on top of an urn,Whose peculiar appearance gave them quite a turn."- Edward Gorey, The Doubtful GuestA dark penguin (?) with white converse shoes, a wool scarf, and an affinity for bowls, plates, and urns shows up and inserts him/her/itself into a gothic Victorian family's estate.
CreepIn many ways this is a love note to odd pets.
Those animals that come into your home and don't exactly love you back, but become absolutely part of your life.
Again, like most Gorey books, this one is absurd, Victorian, gothic, slightly dark and a total hoot.
I recall great reviewer Karen insisting that the book is really about parenting for some people.
They tolerate him, but as she says, "he is a total pain in the ass." "It" eats all the syrup and toast, and part of a plate; it rips apart a gramophone, lies around moping on the floor in inconvenient places, rips off the soles of its shoes, rips up books: Pain in the ass!And doesn't leave for 17 years.
We wrongly assume that most people who become parents are "natural" parents or come to grow into it.
The adults in this story, an extended family, just don't know what to do with this "guest," and largely leave him alone.
I can tell that Edward Gorey has influenced many writers with his bizarre little tales as I have read books that contain similarly absurd series of events.
I have no idea what the guest is, it looks like a completely black penguin wearing trainers.
It seems to do things to annoy it's hosts, sleeping in the tureen and stealing bath towels.
The illustrations are wonderfully dark as always, they are so full of detail you could easily get away without the words.As usual with Edward Gorey nothing is explained, your imagination is left to come up with it's own reasons.
Loved this absurd little book.
Delightfully odd.
This was my introduction to Edward Gorey, I became an instant fan and thus began my fascination with his stories and illustrations.
That said, these books are not for everyone.
In another humorously twisted tale, The Gashlycrumb Tinies, he challenges the traditional alphabet book and gives us a deranged tale of children who meet with calamitous endings.
As I said, not for everyone, but for those of us with a penchant for the absurd and just a hint of the mildly macabre, Gorey was an absolute genius.
Looks like the guest was an emo anteater! #zotzot Love it!
What to make of this book?
As usual with Gorey, his illustrations are interesting, but what's the point?
As usual with me, when I first read a Gorey, I don't get it - why do I keep buying his books?
For now, a doubtful 3/5, which will likely improve with age.A doubtful guest, indeed.UPDATE: Let's try this again after a second read and some reflection!
Forgetting what I think Gorey is trying to say unlocks what I feel.
The Doubtful Guest feels likeAnxiety Depression IsolationIt's a guest, so do I invite those things into my life?
Maybe, but it's doubtful.
"It came seventeen years ago - and to this day it has shown no intention of going away."Another Bizzare and Twisted read that was recommended to me by goodreads after finishing the "Melancholy Death of Oyster Boy and Other Stories".The whole story was written in the shape of a metaphor and it kindda belongs to the dark humour genre which I seem to enjoy, it's my first read by Edward Gorey but probably not the last.
https://pepperlines.blogspot.com/2018...
"At times it would tear out whole chapters from books, or put roomfuls of pictures askew on their hooks." Behind every Gorey character, animal or creature there is a kernel of truth and allusions to something deeper. For me, The Doubtful Guest is difficult not to read as an unwanted child acting out for attention. One of my favorite elements of this short story - a counterpoint to this perspective - is watching the young boy in the family grow up in the shadow of this dark visitor, who is all b

You see this weird penguin-like creature with a striped scarf and white canvas shoes, wandering about, carelessly mysterious and not understood by anyone, including the reader. Is it a metaphor for pets? Children? Aliens? Who knows. All I can say is that you fall in love with it pretty soon.
My brother Rickie will always be my Doubtful Guest ...
Short enough to read while standing in a museum gift shop, and also rather funny. The penguin-y creature moved in and never left, and no one seems terribly bothered. Delightful!
Full review to come!
it was so cute.

This has definitely been my favourite in the Edward Gorey series so far. I agree with other readers that say this comic is a metaphor for life with children.This weird hipster dark penguin type character shows up wearing a scarf ,white canvas shoes an is intent on causing havoc. He listens to no one, gets in the way, hides the bath towels, throws stuff in the pond and rips up books! He stays for 17 years and still shows no sign of leaving. Sound familiar to any parents out there??
I find this book almost eerily relatable to my home life.
I don't think I will elaborate too much on that statement, but anyone who has known Mike since infancy will understand what I mean.
(See quotes below)"It was seemingly deaf to whatever they said...""...It brooded and lay on the floor, Inconvienently close to the drawing room door.""It was subject to fits of bewildering wrath...""It would carry off objects of which it grew fond.
And protect them by dropping them into the pond."And lastly, and presently age applicable,"It came 17 years ago-and to this day it has shown no intention of going away."
What can be better than a Gorey plate-eating, penguin-like bird in Chuck Taylors' who hides towels, for Gawd sakes!
Un cuentito muy kafkiano
Hilarious and adorable!
Perhaps the original graphic novel and in verse too! Funny and creepy, especially when viewed as an allegory about parenthood.
I had a silly grin on my face the entire time I read this book. The story is hilarious and the pictures are stunning.
Edward Gorey is a fascinating writer and illustrator that produced children's books for cynical adults.
The Doubtful Guest is essentially a strange and foreign creature that the family cannot decipher despite their clearly superior breeding and intellects.
The Doubtful Guest is an unwanted child.
This unwanted child continues to make their lives miserable as they suffer its existence.
Either way, it is clear that no one likes The Doubtful Guest and after suffering its presence for seventeen years it shows no sign of going anywhere.
Clearly the child is not moving out, improving, or becoming a functional adult.Dark, playful, artfully illustrated, subversive, and HILARIOUS.
Indeed.
Is it a bird?
Is it a penguin?
It's certainly not Superman anyway.
Whatever type of creature the eponymous guest might be, turning up uninvited and most definitely unwanted one dark and blustery night, he is most assuredly to be commended for his absolute determination not to take a hint.
Despite the obvious indignation of the stuffy Victorian inhabitants of the abode he chooses to make his own, the guest stays purposelessly in situ for seventeen years.
Told in witty rhyming couplets together with subversive gothic illustrations, The Doubtful Guest is yet another example of the genius of Edward Gorey and I would recommend that anyone and everyone should start reading his books at the earliest opportunity.
"The doubtful guest shows up unannounced and unwelcome, yet its presence is accepted after only a brief interlude of screaming.
The staid, pale, Victorian inhabitants of the mansion alternately stare and glare at the doubtful guest as it tears out whole chapters from books, peels the soles of its white canvas shoes, and broods while lying on the floor ("inconveniently close to the drawing-room door").
Strangely, or rather, typically, as this is a Gorey book, the stymied occupants never ask the guest to leave--and in 17 years it has still "shown no intention of going away." A charming little book -- but then I think all of Edward Gorey's productions are charming in their own wierd way.
ALF if ALF were a mute. (This is ALF, for you young whippersnappers out there.) I remain not charmed on a reread, but karen's review is much smarter than mine and I think she may be on the right track. Then again, the family has kids. Maybe an allegory for something else? Gorey loves his metaphors. I'll think this one over some more and get back to you.(Reread in Amphigorey; reviewing separately.)

I have adored this book since late childhood.
Edward Gorey's drawings and his well done rhymes - it is truly grave yard humor - -but my brother and I used to laugh and laugh.
Here is a narrated version on Youtube - -(Warning - often youtube takes these things down so the URL may not work) - - it is not as funny as reading it out loud to your friends while looking at the photos - - and seeing their faces as they think about how morbid and off this is .
The Doubtful Guest is one of Edward Gorey's best books. In a mere 14 or so lines, he manages to convey a story with ominous atmosphere, humor, and a sense of character. The illustrations are beautifully drawn, full of ambience, and fit the story perfectly.The Doubtful Guest tells a bizarre tale about an mysterious creature showing up as an uninvited guest, behaving questionably, and not leaving. (This guest can perhaps be interpreted as a metaphor for a child.)It's also notable that this is one of Gorey's more "child-friendly" and "accesible" books.
I don’t know how many of you like Edward Gorey, but my daughter loved reading his work when she was growing up. This is poetry too, but with the strange and wry sense of humor of Gorey. I’ve used this with my poetry students (older middle school) to show them another side to poetry, creating an imaginative, but interesting, story. This is about a strange bird-like creature who arrives uninvited one day and does unexpected things. It’s rather hard to describe. I hope you’ll find the book and enjoy it.
This is the weird tale of an unexpected guest which arrived one night and shows no intention of going away. As the family adjusts to its presence, its peculiar ways (not at all very proper or polite) and mannerisms, its strange habits and awful moods, the reader becomes appalled with the alacrity with which the creature is received. It is an absurd and curious tale which leaves the reader dumbfounded by its complete oddity.
Read this many years ago for the first time, bought it and read again in 2004, lost in the move in 2007. Gorey is a classic artist/author of the macrabre and belongs on the shelf next to Charles Addams. This is the best I've seen, the ones of the children all dying in accidents is a wee bit creepy for me. At least this one doesn't have any deaths in it. That I recall...
You will never go wrong with reading an Edward Gorey book. In this case, an odd creature wearing sneakers and a scarf sneaks into a home an wreaks quiet havoc in the household by stealing towels from the bathroom, lying on the floor in inconvenient areas and tearing chapters from books. For anyone who enjoys mayhem and twisted humor.
While The Doubtful Guest is not one of Edward Gorey's very best works, it's not bad, and certainly captures his familiar atmosphere of ennui, confusion, and mild dread. It's a slight work and a quick read, but Gorey could be a quite a bit better than this (see for example The Curious Sofa).
Very light-hearted compared to his 'The Gashlycrumb Tinies', but it still has this mysterious, funny and creepy vibe to it. Beautiful illustrations and cute/creepy rhyming couplets. "It would carry off objects of which it grew fond,And protect them by dropping them into the pond ~ "
This is a peculiar and fantastic book for children (and us adults who are child at heart). Wonderful illustrations and clever rhyming with big words. Love. As other reviewers noted, perhaps it's a metaphor for children or pets...or maybe just a bit of strange whimsy.
Both adults and children can enjoy this book. The kids will find the antics of the doubtful guest (which includes keeping things safe by putting things into the pond or stealing all the towels) funny, and adults will recognize these as antics kids are fond of doing.
I found this sitting on a shelf in my hotel room on my honeymoon. It was quite cute, if bizarre. Edward Gorey's MO seems to be to think of a little-used word, draw a picture around it, and then create a goofy rhyme to match. Somehow it works.
Hands down one of the best books I have ever read. A very funny, clever read and it reminded me of a large dog. Easy to read to children, who amazingly think it is hilarious. Inevitably, it will remind you of your worst roomate as well.
A scarfed, beaked black creature in Converse sneakers hangs out with a well-to-do family. It's got lots of nice vocabulary words (like tureen) dropped throughout the rhyming couplets on each page.I should have read Gorey's books when I was a kid.
I don't remember off the top of my head in which Dresden Dolls song Amanda Palmer mentions a doubtful guest, but I always end up thinking of this strange little penguin-ish guy that invades the home. It's not a bad connection to make at all.
OK, this book probably does matter very much. It has little to say and will not change many lives, but it is just adorable and brilliantly illustrated, so I love it anyway.
