https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174635.Goddesses_in_Everywoman
این همون کتاب انواع زنان بنیاد فرهنگ زندگیه که با "مشکل چاپ" مواجه شده.در مورد انواع آرکتایپ های زنانه ست.کلا مطالعه آرکتایپها خیلی تکه های پازل رو کنار هم قرار میده و جواب خیلی از سوالات رو میشه از این طریق گرفت.کنارش گوش دادن به کلاس صوتیش رو هم پیشنهاد می کنم. کلا مسیر طولانیه و بهره بردن از راهنمایی های کسی که چندین سال در این زمینه داره فعالیت می کنه خیلی جاده رو هموار می کنه.
According to Bolen, the stories behind these goddesses(which she recaps in the book) have seeped into the collective unconscious and mold women's personalities from birth.
The primary goddesses that Bolen use are as follows, and I've added my very brief and somewhat crude take in parentheses on the kind of modern women these goddesses represent : 1) Artemis- goddess of the hunt and protector of women(workaholic and/or the President of NOW) 2) Athena- goddess of wisdom and craft, more comfortable around 'male' spheres (science nerd/law firm partner) 3) Hestia- goddess of the hearth and of solitude (a nun) 4) Hera- goddess of marriage (girls who went to college for their "Mrs." degree) 5) Demeter- goddess of grain and the maternal archetype (lady who's pregnant all the time) 6) Persephone- maiden and queen of death (Goth girls)7) Aphrodite- Need I say anything about her?
My students may not be surprised but educators probably would be to see this book on my education shelf. I've used this book when guiding women (younger and older) as they've struggled with their personal, social, and cultural identities. Archetypes of the goddess are helpful as guides to defining ourselves, our paths, and our place within our communities.
The chapters read like horoscopes: worded in such a way that everyone can find a way to make their life experience fit any of the descriptions.I kept reminding myself that the author was speaking metaphorically--I get metaphor.
I've studied poetry and have a degree in anthropology--which helped, but here's the problem.
The author didn't have a metaphorical attitude.
She cited virtually no scientific studies to support her theories.
Otherwise, you're just making shit up.And that's what I thought this book was.
Shit.But then again, maybe my Athena is just too dominant and I can't appreciate spiritual nuance.
Yeah, that's definitely the problem.
نماد های اسطوره ای زناندر این اثر نیروهای مسلط بر احساس و رفتار انسانها در قالب خدابانوان اساطیر یونانی معرفی شده است، هر زنی از درون تحت تاثیر کهن الگو ها و از بیرون با قالبهای رفتاری جامعه روبروست.در مورد هفت خدابانوی کوه المپ با تقسیم آن به دو گروه باکره و آسیب پذیر توضیحاتی داده شده است.
این زن فاقد جاه طلبی بوده و خواهان حجب و آرامش است گروه بعدی هرا، دیمیتر و پرسفون خدابانوان آسیب پذیر نامگذاری شده اند که مظهر نقش های سنتی زنان یعنی همسر، مادر و دختر هستند.هرا خدابانوی زناشویی است که بیانگر وفاداری به عهد و تحمل در رابطه می باشد.
This book, as much as I read, read like a combination of a Cosmo quiz and a self-help book for women 30 years ago.
Admittedly, I have not kept up with theories on Carl Jung's archetypes, and this book made me glad about that.
I will not be finishing this book, I became uninterested in the history surrounding Goddess lore and less intrigued about which was most dominant.
While reading, I found myself distracted, thinking of what event is next on the work calendar, the next time I'll see my friends & family, or what better book I could possibly be reading.
I read this book as a senior in college, and more than twenty years later I still come back to its wisdom and insights.Bolen, a Jungian psychologist, uses seven Greek goddesses as archetypal templates to help women -- and men -- understand some of the powerful psychological patterns that operate in women's lives.
Each archetype has its strengths and riches, and each has its shadows and challenges.While no one goddess sums up any one women, Bolen's illumination of how the ancient stories convey forces that remain part of our psyches today is extremely valuable.
Un excelente libro, que te ayuda identificarte con arquetipos y comprenderte mejor. También permite que identifiques a las diosas de otras mujeres y así aprendas a valorarlas, entenderlas y aprender de ellas. Es un libro valioso, más si se lee en grupo. El viaje de la heroína hacia la totalidad resulta de "tener la capacidad de ser activa y receptiva, autónoma e íntima, de trabajar y amar". Este es el reto.
The last time my dad and I had connected was when he had to watch me for the night and he started to read me The Hobbit, instead of my mom's child-friendly books.
Never again would my dad bring up architecture or engineering around me.I was a little Athena girl in the making.Goddesses in Every Woman by Jean Shinoda Bolen fills in where others have failed.
I also had never read a book where someone analyzed Greek mythology in a way that made so much sense.
Though on the surface these may seem like simple analogies the book is far from a simple summary (not like what you would take in a personality quiz or read in a trashy Cosmo-type magazine) and instead jumps into complex breakdowns of the different types of goddess/women and shows both the positive sides and the shadow sides.One of the ways I felt like this was useful for me was that beyond my own identities for certain life choices I have made (which this book made me feel more liberating and less judgmental towards myself on) I also had greater understanding and compassion towards those goddesses that I don't relate to as much as before I felt like (especially coming from a feminist background) that there is sort of 'my way or the highway' attitude but with these archetypes I see that other less powerful, more vulnerable and simple (example: Hestia, home and hearth goddess) female spirits are also at play for some and that is just fine too.
Archetypes are a powerful tool for self-knowledge because they tap into the universal collective language we all share.
Learning to become more aware of your own archetypes can help you see yourself, the bigger picture and is a good place to start creating solutions for yourself and others.
Finding out which Goddess sits at the head of your table is also a very good way to balance your own personality so you are able to find a voice for lesser known parts (Goddesses) of your inner self.
I high recommend this book in every woman's collection for insight into strengths and weaknesses and personal empowerment.
Epiphanic !!! ...One word to sum up this book .. recommended to be read by any woman irrespective of her age and role...Powerful n subtle shifts in perspectives to be expected ! Sudden solution appears to perplexing life situations...and greater awareness of one's self...and ones own and others' motivations.... awesomely empowering and liberating !!! The Best Book I ever read.... Life Defining... I cant thank the author enough in ways that she helped me in understanding myself ....
Я віднайшла одну з відповідей на це питання у цій книзі: через те, що архетипи поведінки вбачаються у міфах і легендах і мають відображення у діях сьогодення.
Авторка стверджує, що жінкою можуть керувати до семи архетипів богинь, у різний період часу, з різною інтенсивністю, поєднуюючись чи конфліктуючи з іншими богинями.
З цієї книги можна дізнатися яка з богинь отримає золоте яблуко всередині вас (і хто впливає на цей вибір), як архетипи проявляються через дії (все прописано у міфах), як патріархальне суспільство керує поведінкою жінок і сковує деякі архетипи та багато іншого.
Вона допоможе віднайти богиню і героїню в собі, розібратися у почуттях, підкаже на найкращий вибір для вас.
Кому цікаво заглибитись в жіночі архетипи, вам сюди!
Descúbrelo con las siguientes citas del libroLo que llena a un tipo de mujer puede no tener sentido para otro, dependiendo de la cuál es la “diosa” que está activa en ellas.
Con Hestia como presencia interna, una mujer no está “apegada” a la gente, los resultados, las posesiones, el prestigio o el poder.Es probable que una hija tipo Hestia, rechace la emoción, retirándose hacia dentro para preocuparse consuelo en medio del dolor, la vida conflictiva de la familia o un entorno escolar que siente ajeno.
از کسی شنیدم که میگفت من قوی هستم چون ضعفهای خودم رو میدونم. این کتاب چنین کاری میکند. شما و دوستان و انسانهایی که میشناسید را در قالب کهن الگوها به شما میشناساند. نقاط ضعف را میفهمیم و متوجه میشویم تا چه حد رفتارهایمان گاهی پیش بینی پذیر است. برای زنان این امکان را به وجود میآورد که متوجه بشوند نباید خودشان را سرکوب کنند تا به قالب هرایی و دیمیتری که کهن الگوهای قابل قبول جامعه است در بیایند. که میتوانند زنی آرتمیسی باشند یا آفرودیتی یا هر چه که درونشان وجود دارد. شینودا بولن در آخر کتاب کتابش
این کتاب چنین کاری می‌کند.
شما و دوستان و انسان‌هایی که می‌شناسید را در قالب کهن الگوها به شما می‌شناساند.
نقاط ضعف را می‌فهمیم و متوجه می‌شویم تا چه حد رفتارهایمان گاهی پیش بینی پذیر است.
برای زنان این امکان را به وجود می‌آورد که متوجه بشوند نباید خودشان را سرکوب کنند تا به قالب هرایی و دیمیتری که کهن الگوهای قابل قبول جامعه است در بیایند.
شینودا بولن در آخر کتاب کتابش را پیر خردمندی معرفی کرد که در سفر قهرمان به او کمک می‌کند و این بهترین توضیف برای این کتاب فوق‌العاده بود.
Likewise, the book is riddled with issues such as taking “wife” and “daughter” and turning them into the primary personality focus of a woman, or using dated examples of expected workplace behavior.
To her credit, Bolen mitigates the problem somewhat by showing the reader how to interlace two or more personality archetypes together to make a more concrete image, but the advice is still too generic to call helpful.All in all, there are worse Jungian self-help books in the world, and it’s interesting to see a genuinely feminist revision of the concept.
I even had my Mom to read this book and discuss with the me the archetypes of women in my family.Of course, men can find some of the archetypes of the goddesses as familiar forces at work in their own lives, both through their relationships with women and as the integral part of their own psyche.For me, it became a very transformative book.
Every woman who has ever had any interest in psychology or mythology must read this book.
Commonalities across cultures that had no interaction show that they come from a place that is common to all human experience, regardless of situation, culture, or influence.[return][return]Bolen focuses on the Greek Goddesses as archetypes for female behavior.
She shows how they work together, how they conflict, and how to mediate between.[return][return]My only real struggle with the book is that I felt Bolen was a bit biased against some and towards others of the archetypes.
That doesn't excuse devaluing those goddess types, though.[return][return]I can't speak highly enough of this book.
Esta reseña es una invitación a una forma diferente de abordar el entendimiento de las mujeres, en ese sentido, mi primera conclusión es que todas las mujeres deberían leer este libro, todos los profesionales de la psicología deberían leer este libro, cualquiera que se defina como feminista, igualitario, también debería leerlo.Ha hecho mucha falta una visión de los arquetipos femeninos que no surjan de la idea freudiana de la "envidia del pene" y de la idea junguiana del "animus".
Describe siete arquetipos femeninos a partir de las diosas griegas, las cuales representan una parte de la Gran Diosa, toda poderosa, prepatriarcal.
This came as a Goodreads suggestion, after reading Women Who Run With Wolves; a book I didn't enjoy at all.Purely on the style and prose, this book is easier to read and if, like me, you know next to nothing about Ancient Greek myths and legends, it is interesting.
It is also a book of its time, and treats gender as a binary and slips into descriptions of male and female traits that will definitely annoy some readers.The crux, however, is the use of these legends to explain or guide a person's reactions, actions and their place in the world.
For example, if you are a person very heavily influenced by Dionysus, who is spontaneous and prone to impulsiveness, you might benefit from cultivating Apollo, who is more focused on long term goals.The author did an excellent job in tying in the traits and archetypes of each God and Goddess to their mythology, including accounting for alternate retellings, and the cultural context in which myths were developed.
Sometimes this was in relation to Gods and Goddesses that I already knew I felt close to, such as Artemis, but oftentimes it was in relation to deities that I would never have dreamed to developing a personal connection to, like Zeus, Poseidon, or Ares.
(Ugh, it might sound hokey when I’m explaining it, but all this makes a lot more sense in the book.) Artemis, along with Athena and Hestia, form the trio of the “virgin goddesses”, who possess a “one-in-herself” quality, meaning that while she can enjoy and be with people, the meaning and purpose of her life does not reside solely in her relationships.
If we realize we’re operating under the influence of a certain “goddess” (e.g., Am I being too much of an Artemis that I’m overvaluing my independence and pushing people away?), we can shift to being another goddess (e.g., Maybe in this situation, it’s best to be an Aphrodite) - we can easily change our story.
Starts very strong and convincing, ended up almost pop psychology, anyway I don't regret reading it. it has for the most part created a good frame of reference in my mind. unfortunately it's a bit vague even for the updated more modern version of Jungian psychology, Bolen seems to struggled wrapping up her ideas here and there toward the end of her book.
Shinoda Bolen divides the goddess of the Greek pantheon into the Virgin Goddesses: Artemis, Athena, and Hestia; the Vulnerable Goddesses: Hera, Demeter, and Persephone; and the lone Alchemical Goddess: Aphrodite.
Shinoda Bolen is careful to note that while "everywoman" possesses one, or perhaps a couple primary goddess archetype within her, she may also call upon portions of other goddess archetypes through different stations of her life.I enjoyed reading both about goddesses I tend to see in myself - namely Artemis and Athena- and the two I reluctantly accept as not-insignificant portions of my persona - Demeter and Persephone - as well as the three I fail to fully comprehend - Hestia, Hera, and Aphrodite.
I liked Boden's "Gods In Everyman" so much, I grabbed this one as soon as I saw it in the local used bookstore.
It's not bad, it's just not that good, and somehow doesn't live up to the solid mythological archetypes of its predecessor.
The analogies seem forced and lacking insight, the archetypes are more shallow than the ones with the gods and leave many empty spaces, many personality types uncovered.
It's really too bad -- maybe a revised edition, or a new version of the same thing by someone else, would fill the spaces.
A very good read for finding yourself in a spectrum of Feminine/Female ways of being in the world - especially if you do not fall into the current culturally accepted roles for women :)
I have benefited from every book by Jean Shinoda Bolen. Put her on your list if you haven't already discovered her!!!
muy buena lectura. combina psicología y mitologia
If, like me, you're interested in myth and archetypes, this book is in its twentieth anniversary edition and well worth a look.
