https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122418.Asterix_the_Legionary
..ima li išta gore za rimskog centuriona nego biti poslan u borbu protiv Gala iz bezimenog galskog sela...ooooo da..imati Gale u svojim redovima.Mnogi centurion oplakao je ovaj susret sa svojeglavim Asterixom i Obelixom..i ja sam oplakao..ali od smijeha...definivno najbolja epizoda do sada
While good, the later volumes lacked Goscinny’s sharp humor and plot development.As a native German who attended American schools, I learned to read German by devouring the stories of Asterix, his best friend Obelix, and their friends whose magic potion gave them the strength to make their village in Gaul the only place in Europe the Romans could not conquer.
I've read this volume at least once a year since 1971.Asterix is the wiliest of the Gauls.
Before the inevitable happy ending, the combination of the story, jokes and art work flow together perfectly.In Germany, a separate industry of Asterix volumes has developed that are also incredible fun.
"The trouble with you Romans is, you aren't delicate or poetic. And the trouble with me is, I'm so shy and retiring.""Hear what that mastodon said?"Probably my favourite Asterix ever.
Note to self: stick to reading these in French or Dutch... The English translation sort of ruins most of the word puns, taking them from clever to downright silly.
Qui c'è il legionario egiziano Scarpdetenis :)))
This was one of those sorts - the incredibly clever Asterix and Obelix series so wonderfully translated into English.
All of the humour and the puns haven't lost any of their charm even 20 years or so after last reading them, in fact I think I picked up a few more references that sailed over my head last time.
In this, one of the best of a very good set of books, Asterix and Obelix join the Roman Legion and head off to Africa on a search and rescue mission.
Asterix and Obelix in the Army18 August 2013 Poor Obelix, he meets a girl with whom he falls in love only to discover that she has been engaged to somebody else and he has been drafted into the Roman Army to go and fight Ceaser's civil war against Pompey. Well, any love sick individual would probably sit back, wait until he is killed, and then make his move, but not Asterix and Obelix – they are too noble and honourable to do that, so they do what any good and noble person would do in such a sit
Asterix and Obelix in the Army18 August 2013	Poor Obelix, he meets a girl with whom he falls in love only to discover that she has been engaged to somebody else and he has been drafted into the Roman Army to go and fight Ceaser's civil war against Pompey.
Well, any love sick individual would probably sit back, wait until he is killed, and then make his move, but not Asterix and Obelix – they are too noble and honourable to do that, so they do what any good and noble person would do in such a situation – they join the Roman army to go off and rescue him.
My favorite of the Asterix books. I particularly like the clueless Egyptian who speaks in hieroglyphs, and the repeated recitation of the unit designation. Possibly my favorite Asterix in which he and the lovely Obelix enlist in the Roman army, along with various other misfits, Goths, etc. Can't think of anything else in fact this one is cool because Asterix and Obelix actually enlist with the roman army
Forse non uno degli albi più memorabili del piccoletto gallo, ma la scena del rancio ogni volta mi stende.
Asterix the Legionary (Asterix, #10), René Goscinny
Τρίχες στη μύτη
Storia semplice, gli spunti di comicità più brillanti nascono dal carattere “multiculturale” del gruppetto di soldati in cui Asterix e Obelix vengono inquadrati e dalla loro interazione con la disciplina dell’esercito romano. Memorabili: l’egiziano che si arruola credendo di entrare in un villaggio vacanze e resta di questa idea fino alla fine e i siparietti fra l’interprete e i legionari che non parlano latino.
J'ai un énorme parti de mon coeur réservé aux histoires d'Astérix et Obélix.Cela étant dit, ceci est probablement une de mes histoires préférée de ces deux Gaulois.J'ai ri aux larmes sur certaine des planches... pas bon pour la préservation, mais très bon pour le moral... poils à l'occipital?
Pour recuperer l'un des leurs, enrole de force (qui plus est le fiance de Falbala !), nos amis Asterix et Obelix s'engagent dans la legion : ils vont y semer une belle pagaille !
Muchas risas con la 1ª legión, 3ª cohorte, 2ª manípula, 1ª centuria.Creo que en este tomo nos encontramos con los secundarios más divertidos de los cómics de Astérix.
Obelix actually falls in love and does all he must to keep his love happy.Our brave hero's actually join the Roman army!Another funny adventure to enjoy!
Loved it! Quick and funny, and it had some of my favourite jokes.
Mein Freund hat sich dieses Buch aus der Bibliothek ausgeborgt, zu Recherchezwecken für einen Literaturcache zu H.C. Artmann, dem Übersetzer dieser wienerischen Fassung.Ich, die ich zwar alle Asterix-Filme kenne aber bisher so gut wie keinen Comic gelesen hab, wollte ihn dann auch mal lesen.
Weil sich sowas gesprochen aber besser anhört als nur still gelesen, hat mein Freund (mit dem Wiener Dialekt besser vertraut als ich) es mir vorgelesen.
Und später hab ich dann einiges vorgelesen und mich wohl gar nicht so schlecht angehört.Das Verstehen war meistens auch gar kein Problem, viele Wörter kenn ich mittlerweile, andere hören sich eh fast so an wie im hochdeutschen.
Recruiting new members for Caesar's army! The most memorable character of the book is Ptenisnet the Egyptian volunteer who believes that he is actually on a package holiday!!! :D Ptenisnet forever complains about the accommodation and asking to see the menu. Ptenisnet mistakes Julius Caesar for a holiday-camp redcoat. Read this for Ptenisnet.Gastronomix the Belgian volunteer shares a barber with Tintin.Due to the good-natured interplay of the medley band of recruits whose multiple language barriers conspire to break the morale of every Roman authority figure they encounter.One of the best!

Obelix is smitten by one of the village girls but is pained to find out that she is already engaged to a certain Tragicomix, who has been conscripted into the Roman army (on campaign in North Africa against Scipio).
The two enlist in the army and, along with a colorful collection of recruits from around the Roman empire, travel to Africa for the war against Scipio and attempt to track down Tragicomix.
Along the way, the Gauls and the rest of the recruits annoy the hell out of their two centurions and make a mockery of everything related to military discipline.Fun and humorous.
Yang keinget dari komik ini adalah ransum tentaranya~Gimana ransum tentara Romawi yang gak enak pol-polan itu ternyata untuk menjaga agar kesangaran mereka tetap dalam kondisi 'fit' (^,,^)Terus, tentara rekrutan dari berbagai daerah jajahan itu ya jelas gak mau makan makanan gak enak...dan hasilnya, yang mereka makan itu~~ ｡ﾟ( ﾟ^∀^ﾟ)ﾟ｡ (view spoiler)[makanan kesayangan Obelix: celeng panggang!! ^,,,^)...hasil dari "membujuk" juru masak tentara~ (hide spoiler)]
Goscinny and Uderzo are working in their peak zone with this story. Hilarious in both a general and culturally specific way. The Atlas Archives edition does an excellent job highlighting the various contexts that shaped and illuminated the creation of the book, with nice reproductions of documents photos accompanied with informative commentary.
Obelix falls for a girl named Panacea, but she's engaged to a guy that has been drafted into the Roman army and is being sent to Africa. Asterix and Obelix promise to get him and bring him to the village. There's a hilarious section that follows about them joining the army, training, etc.This is one of the funniest of all the series.
Possibly the funniest of all the Asterix books--the cross-cultural stuff is very, very amusing, and the names alone are enough to make me applaud. Not only are these great books in their original French, but they are possibly the most brilliant translations ever done!
Creo que jamás un militar me hizo reír tanto en mi vida como La Primera legión, tercera cohorte, segunda manipula, primera centuria de este libro. Este debe ser uno de los comics que más releí en mi vida.
can't think of any other rating for this series infactthis one is cool cause asterix and obelix actually enlist with the roman army
Remember the boars!Subtle insults to English cooking!How the army should be run!Let's get Dogmatix!More fun and puns in the world of Asterix.
My favorite of all the Asterix books. Funnier and more engaging than most.
This is the masterpiece.
