https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44353.Weetzie_Bat
i surprise myself daily: i love the coen brothers, but i hate the big lebowski.
i hate cutie-pie whimsical movies, but i loved amelie.
the excitement of living my life is that i am always surprised by how i will respond; the world is a big exciting oyster of possibility.
it is not all happy, but the sad parts, the scary parts, the parts that oprah-books would milk for a couple hundred pages are just...
just an all-around beautiful sweet book.but truly the worst cover i have ever ever seen.come to my blog!
It's difficult to say what age I would ever consider recommending this book to because the message and subject matter here seems a bit mature for young teens, yet the entire thing feels like it's written at about a fourth grade reading level.
The characters exist in a sort of shimmery fantasyfied L.A. that (if you've read up even a little bit on Old Hollywood history) didn't even exist in the days of Marilyn, James Dean, Jayne Mansfield and the other movie icons Weetzie and her friends idolize.
perhaps this book would have forced all the self-loathing (due to the conflict between wondering why i wasn’t like said fuckheads and the deep repulsion i felt toward them) to turn outward and i might’ve pulled some kind of columbine deal on some of those assholes.
and from the privacy of 'the hole' (i shived some aryan motherfucker for stealing my pencil) i might’ve turned out some great pieces of writing rather than these dumb disposable book reports.damn you francesca lia block.
where were you when i needed you?(if this book were standard issue to every fifteen year old on the planet i'm pretty sure the world would be a much better place)

Everything that occurs is very far-fetched to me, and even if it were a fairy tale, I could not find or come up with a theme for this really ambiguous novella.The characters are extremely one-dimensional,and all the problems that they are faced with they either ignore or some magical solution appears randomly in front of them.
Although fantasy certainly has it's place, I would recommend a number of other titles before this one to teens and overall do not find it a worthwhile read.
The lack of development, surface level drama and lack of theme-oriented elements makes this book seem hardly worthwhile.
Weezie is something of a geration-X Holly Golightly, without the tragedy; she's everything a mixed up, affected, over-the-top poetry-and-creative-writing highschool student from the late 90s who was raised on too much Molly Ringwald and Duckie wanted to be. The story is breezy and fun, with Weezie, Dirk, and Secret Angent Lover Man tripping lightly from one adventure to the next, learning to live, love, and make successful underground movies in a Hollywood that actually has all the glitz and glamour that we naively hope it would.
This book didn't just let me down, it actually vaguely disgusted me on many, many levels.
I understand that some people like how it deals with some heavy themes in a very airy fashion - AIDs, neglect, pregnancy, death and so on...but mostly it just doesn't deal with them.
I think I knew I was going to hate this book when they first introduced the supposedly cool main character with her feather headdress and I started screaming "eeewww cultural appropriation!" in my mind.
I could possibly have liked it and been influenced by it at 13, which might have lowered my IQ significantly.
"I wish for a Duck for Dirk, and My Secret Agent Lover Man for me, and a beautiful little house for us to live in happiliy ever after." "Your wishes are granted.
I.e. My Secret Agent Lover Man (that's a character's name) and Weetzie successfully "make" a couple of movies with the help of one or two friends and their house-mates, who function as actors, wardrobe people and whoever is needed, and earn enough money to live, indulge in their favorite sushi and buy a new car although there is no talk about financing or selling the projects or even of anybody watching the outcomes.
I mean, I know they're supposed to be just DARLING levels of rebellious cool.
Most loving actions portrayed in the story are along the lines of buying someone a burrito, while the ickier actions taken are the size of (view spoiler)[ secretly getting yourself pregnant by multiple best friends because your partner has made it clear they don't want kids  (hide spoiler)].
Perhaps that's why it got the reputation it did for inspiring so many weird kids.
I love my fellow weird kids.
Actually, now I'm wondering how many polyamorous people pattern their relationships after Weetzie Bat, because that would really explain a lot.
Similarly, when Secret Agent Lover Man leaves Weetzie because she decided to have a baby with Duck and Dirk, she still welcomes him back into her life and loves him even though he had an affair that produced a child.
Perhaps none of these things would happen in real life, but it's kind of cool to see that Block has created this loving utopia within her novel.
I also think I'll probably go on to read the other Weetzie Bat books that are out there because this narrative just fascinated me.
What a dreamy little book! Excuse me while I go hunt down some vintage Peter Fox shoes and string up twinkle lights everyfrigginwhere.
It's a fairy tale of escaping mainstream culture without any negative consequences, because love and funky style win out.All of that is still true, but rereading it now I'm overcome by the casual, completely unconscious racism that permeates much of the story.
Weetzie doesn't just escape conformist culture with glitter and kitsch, she does it through her cultural appropriate of Native American clothing, her admiration of the exoticised, semi-magical Jamaican Valentine and Chinese Ping, and her eventual starring role in her lover's "what these people need is a honky!" movie.
If anything, it's even *more* impressive to me, now, that someone was able to publish a lush but spare novel (I think it should be called a novel, even though it must clock in at not much more than 10,000 words) for tweens that deals with topics like gay love, AIDS, childbirth, addiction, nontraditional families, and sexually predatory rock musicians, without ever once creating that self-conscious 'This is an ISSUE that I am talking to you about, Young Adult Reader' feeling that can bedevil books for that age group.The first sentence is an exemplary first sentence, simple, full of momentum, and the book is just relentlessly fun and lovely from there on out.
http://www.stevenmoore.info/photos.shtmlSee Moore's review of Block's stuff in his forthcoming My Back Pages: Reviews and Essays."If you're not a teenage girl, you may be unfamiliar with Francesca Lia Block's works. She's the Gabriel Garcia Marquez of Young Adult fiction, Judy Blume gone punk and New Age, the patron saint of goth gurls into both Nine Inch Nails and Shakespeare.[...] Imagine Ronald Firbank as a Valley girl with a heliotrope Mohawk. That's why there are many of us who are neither
http://www.stevenmoore.info/photos.shtmlSee Moore's review of Block's stuff in his forthcoming My Back Pages: Reviews and Essays."If you're not a teenage girl, you may be unfamiliar with Francesca Lia Block's works. She's the Gabriel Garcia Marquez of Young Adult fiction, Judy Blume gone punk and New Age, the patron saint of goth gurls into both Nine Inch Nails and Shakespeare.[...] Imagine Ronald Firbank as a Valley girl with a heliotrope Mohawk. That's why there are many of us who are neither teenagers nor girls who find her fiction enchanting." [79]
A surreal story.
The themes in the book are very adult - sex, drugs and the story is magical.
It reads like poetry and it's not poetry.
I have heard a lot about this book and I'm so glad I finally checked it out.
The words are somehow magic as well.
I don't know how the book did what it did and I love it.
A lot happens in one chapter and maybe that is why it feels so magical.
All I know is I like this book and I will be reading more of Francesca Lia Block!
Events happen, and the most time that is spent on them is when Weetzie is mourning her father and Duck is scared for his sick friend and runs away.
The rest are quickly glossed over like a brief glimpse as you're passing by a store window.
However, I did read it, so I thought I would put it on here with an explanation for why I had to give it such a low rating.
2.5 out of 5Weeetzie Bat is definitely unusual and original, like a shimmering dream.
I would imagine that's what the world looks like when you are on drugs.
The novel also touches upon some tough subjects, such as infidelity, death, drugs, homosexuality, abortion and AIDS.
However, it desperately lacks depth: the characters are one-dimensional and the problems are only briefly mentioned and then magically fixed or not dealt with at all.
But that didn't bother me that much (it kind of felt appropriate for the dream world).
What really bothered me though is Block's mindless appropriation of Native culture.
If it weren't for these books, adolescence would have killed me, or at least made me incredibly lame.This book probably had a bigger impact on me than any other single thing I've ever read, before or since.
This is my favorite young adult novel of all time.
When Dirk's grandma Fifi gives Weetzie a magic lamp, Weetzie's three wishes come true: boyfriends for Dirk and herself and a beautiful house for the four of them to live in happily ever after.
The characters don't have typical young adult concerns: they don't go to school, they don't watch TV or play video games.
The book is both serious and irreverent, realistic and fantastical, and it explores the question what does "happily every after" mean.
The book sort of defies genre, but I'd compare it loosely to the magical realism of Like Water for Chocolate.
2.5 stars. I don't even know how to review this odd YA novel about Weezie Bat and her guy, and her best friend Dirk and his guy, living together in a cottage in LA. It had elements of urban fantasy and magical realism and the repetitively simple sentence structure drove me crazy, yet I read the whole thing.
Charlie BatWeetzie BatCherokeeLily (Witch Baby)Brandy-LynnMy Secret Agent Lover ManDirkDuckJerrySlinkster DogGo-Go GirlPee WeeWee WeeTeenie WeeTiki TeeTee PeeValentine Jah-LovePing ChongRaphael Chong Jah-Loveand just for good measureIggy PopAll these crazy cool character names...makes Scoobs sound soo...
So this is what a contemporary fairy tale should be: something that makes you see the magic of your own time, of your own place, and of your own life, something like WEETZIE BAT.
I think it boils down to: if I'd come to this when I was younger, I might have liked it more.It's a dreamlike foray through Los Angeles, with young and glitzy characters, that touches on some serious subjects: there are steady committed gay relationships, mixed children, children born out of wedlock, unconventional family dynamics, infidelity, drug use & suicide, HIV/AIDS...
For being published in 1989, these topics must have been groundbreaking.The whole thing reads a bit like being in a fever dream, and there's also a streak of some surprising magical realism/urban fantasy that I really wasn't expecting.
Scattered, but with individual elements of lovely writing.
My sister gave me her copy of this book as I prepared my move to Los Angeles.
Ms. Block coated the Los Angeles of the 80's and 90's in a thick coat of glitter and filled it with characters that seem to float on each page.
At times the plot sinks back to earth, like when Weetzie leaves her glitter-filled snow globe to visit her father in New York.
Still, landing is very different than bursting, and this bubbly remains intact through to the end where Weetzie is satisfied with a life that ends "Happily".
This book started off well enough - a little weird and quite dysfunctional, and boys being called 'ducks'. But then came the wishes...In my opinion, this book was just...crazy. Some pretty crazy shit went down in this. I honestly can't explain it any better than that. It was a short read, and kind of a whirlwind of events. Characters aren't exactly complex, nor did they seem developed. All in all, not a good read, and wouldn't recommend it.
When I first read this book, in 1992, in the ninth grade, some part of me believed that FLB was speaking directly to me, that she had written this book for me. Whenever I am homesick for my lovely faraway L.A., and my sad little Valley Girl heart feels like it's going to break, I reread this book (and its sequels). Just the sight of its hot pink spine cheers me up, and is totally transporting.
As a person who believes that lying to children and leaving them unprepared for a complex world is cruel and pointless, I find a certain delight in the Weetzie Bat books. Of course, they are also one-dimensional and ridiculous without being truly creative, so they fail to get my Children's Lit prize.
This book spoke to me with its simple yet bright, colourful message: Love each other. Life is scary. Maybe I'm a hippie at heart.
I liked Weetzie Bat; its portrayal of Los Angeles and the vibrancy of the city is great, and the story was original and different.
