https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/439465.The_Picts_the_Martyrs_or_Not_Welcome_at_All
Nancy manages to maintain this charade with all the aplomb she brings to part-time piracy and this is highly entertaining.Meanwhile, Dick and Dot find themselves playing a 10-day long game of hide and seek while learning new skills such as trout-guddling, rabbit-skinning, burgling, and how to hoist and lower the sail of their new boat.
No, it's the ten days in which the Amazons' plans are completely turned upside down, and in which there is a desperate need to keep Dick and Dot hidden - it's that period, and the way everything is so neatly tied up at the end of it, that makes a good story.
I just finished re-reading this book and it is one of my favourites from Ransome’s world.
In my opinion, this book shows Ransome’s gift for characterisation at its best.The themes are gentle but so entertaining and well written.
The number of near misses keeps you on the edge of your seat when you consider whether the Great Aunt will catch the Picts.
I just loved the interplay of the characters, the Blacketts, The Callum’s, Timothy, Great Aunt Maria, poor old Cook - this book is so well paced and so entertaining.
I think it’s a true under appreciated gem!One of my all time favourites!
I just love this whole series of books. I wish I had grown up with them, but at least I've found them as an adult. My fiancé read me this one out loud, and his G.A. voice is just the best.
Sice mi už dlouho není deset, ale Vlaštovky a Amazonky jsou pořád moje srdcovka. I bez Vlaštovek. I s pratetou. I když je tahle knížka vlastně dost odlišná od většiny ostatních. Protože i dneska bych se chtěla plavit po jezeře a tábořit na ostrově Divokých koček.
"Do you really think she is going to make it very awful?" said Dorothea."Pretty awful, I expect," said Peggy.
"She usually does."Dick, Dorothea, and the Amazons expect a blissful time of adventures and sailing while Nancy and Peggy's Mother and Uncle Jim are away, but when the Amazons GA (Great Aunt) decides she needs to come to oversea things, all their hopes are dashes.
They live as Picts, while Nancy and Peggy act as Martyrs to please their aunt.
I enjoy Dick and Dorothea's personalities, but there didn't seem much going on.
The end was more interesting as everyone searches for the Great Aunt.
Not the very best of his books but better than most that other people write.
He has a magical gift for taking you there, showing you the world though the eyes of people you are nothing like (except I hope, in kindness, concern and a lively interest in the natural world), interesting you in things that might otherwise pass you by, and bringing it all to life in a story that Jake Thackray might describe as "a good tale, a little improbable, but a good tale".
I've a tin of tobacco and a pipe ready!
Not sure why I keep going back and re-re-reading Arthur Ransome's kid's books...
In this one, a horrible old maiden aunt makes trouble for the kids, and they in turn plot deviously to foil her.
It's not my absolute fave in the series, but it's entertaining and there is a nice plot twist at the end.
One thing I love about the series is the (no doubt sentimental and romanticized) picture of the Lake District locals--they are unsophisticated but by no means dumb.Very John Ford, if you know what I mean.
The Swallows do not appear at all, although they are mentioned frequently (it also is evident that they are about to visit at the end, presumably a set up for the next book).Nancy and Peggys' great aunt has been mentioned in at least one previous book, but has not been given much to do before this title.
He gets more to do towards the end of the book.Overall, I enjoyed this more than the previous two titles; I managed not to miss the Swallows, mostly because of Nancy and Peggy (I love Nancy's catchphrase, "Jibbooms and bobstays", which she uses frequently).
Another gentle but exciting adventure in the "Swallows and Amazons" series from the 1930s, taking place in the Lake District of England.
This book doesn't involve the Swallows except in mention - it's a story of the Amazons and the D's (who become the Scarabs in this book).
The book involves the Scarabs learning survival living while pretending not to exist so that the Great-Aunt of the Amazons doesn't discover them, and the Amazons learning a whole different kind of survival attempting to be genteel little women in order to prevent the Great-Aunt from becoming suspicious.
As always with Ransome's books, it is filled with the imagination and inventiveness that children are so good at.
I flew through this one - this year has been full of firsts, and this was my first book by Ransome.
This is a part of a long standing series though, but I loved reading this as a standalone.
The story reminded me so much of my childhood - I always wanted to camp out and sail my own boat!This book was full of adventures and I loved the Great Aunt's exaggerated evil character - that is one of my favorite tropes in children's fiction, which I enjoyed most in The Wolves of Willoughby Chase by Joan Aiken.Ransome's past is itself an interesting story - his involvement with the Bolsheviks is infinitely adventurous.
Super fun and easy ready, you really drift along with the story without any complications and you find yourself emerged in the charachter's world. One or two charachter felt a bit one dimensional but the way the scenery is described and all the adventures are very interesting. I would recommend for some light fiction reading.
Growing up the Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome was one of my favorite series. When I decided to re-read it as an adult I was worried that it would not stand the test of time. I was delighted to find that in general found it just as enjoyable now as I did as a child. The characters, writing style and adventures are great and I truly enjoyed the series.
Just perfect. Reminds you of human decency and goodness. And fun most of all. Nancy remains my role model. I rarely live up to her standards but one can continue trying. This will bolster me against a trying week ahead.
M - LD Placeholder
This was the last completed novel in the Swallows and Amazons series to be set in the Lake District, and shows Arthur Ransome tackling more serious issues than had been evident in the previous novels.
Meanwhile Nancy and Peggy take on the role of martyrs, excelling themselves in proper deportment and behaviour, struggling to convince the great Aunt that they are indeed ‘young ladies’ and not the tearaways that she believes them to be.It seems unbelievable today to see how casually the various adults in the story accept that Dorothea and Dick should be turfed out of Beckfoot and sent to live in a hut for a few days.
In the meantime, Nancy implicates many adults in her plot to keep the visitors secret including Cook, the mailman, and Timothy.The absence of the Swallows for the entire story was a disappointment for me in this book, as it is the second to last in the series, and I only have one more chance to spend any time with those characters.
I really enjoyed seeing how seriously Dick and Dorothea took their role as picts, and it made me laugh to see the usually mouthy Nancy behaving herself primly for the benefit of the great aunt.
As a child these were my favourite books, I loved stories of adventure and my family holidayed in the English Lake District where these books are set so I knew the places they visited.Whilst on holiday I would imagine meeting the Swallows and Amazons on every lake.
At school my friends and I would play Swallows and Amazons.
My best friend Sarah and I, being the only ones who were truly obsessed by the books would take charge and we would, of course, be the Amazons.
Always my childhood favourite of the “Swallows and Amazons” stories, I related strongly to “Picts and Martyrs” because being at the top of my generation in my extended family, I had a plethora of Great Aunts and Great Uncles; though none quite so antiquated as the Blackett’s, who demands that her nieces accompany her in their best frocks for a country drive.
Even Uncle Jim is on best behaviour!The thrill of the storyline of this book is of course living ‘rough’ and out of the sight of the ‘enemy’.
The pit-sinking fear of being spotted.
Dorothea, being a writer, lends her magnificent imagination to the scenario, and the reader learns how much this world really is shaped by the perspectives by which we view it.
One more book to go!
We really don't want the series to end!
Actually, right now, we've moved on to Coot Club, which is the first in the series that focuses only on the Ds, who learn to sail in the Norfolk Broads and meet a group of kids who have a club called, of course, The Coot Club.
Our library didn't have it, but I put in a purchase request and it just came in recently, so we'll do that one and then The Big Six, which is the second book about the Coots.
And THEN, we'll read the last book in the series, which brings together, once again, the Ds, the Swallows, and the Amazons.
These books are just so great.
This is the final book of my Arthur Ransome collection that I have been waiting an eternity for!
I read most of the Arthur Ransome books when I was a child but this one always eluded me.
Now after collecting the rest of the series from the 2002 reprinting, I finally found a copy online that didn't cost either $150 or $999 to buy.
This was also the last book of the series that I have never read, so I was excited to finish reading the series.
Another good one from Ransome - especially good for kids who feel put upon by older relatives, I'd think, as this one is all about the Amazons and the Ds pulling one over on the Amazons' detested great aunt.
They pull a few reluctant adults into supporting their schemes, but this is clearly a triumph for the children over the 'native' adults.
Highlights include some enlightening scenes as the younger Ds practice things on their own so as not to look bad in front of the older kids and adults, from learning to cook eggs to practicing sailing to learning how to get into hammocks.
Up with the best of the Swallows and Amazons stories, and a real New Year treat as I couldn't get hold of all the series when I was a child. The image of dread pirate Nancy having to be goody two-shoes Ruth for the Great Aunt is a classic and will stay with me. As always, such beautiful writing and a celebration of children using their imaginations to entertain themselves and have 'adventures.'Thanks, you, Arthur Ransome!
I found and read the Swallows and Amazons series in my early 20s. I am only sorry I did not find them earlier. Stories of the family's summer adventures are beautifully written, and encourage responsible and creative living. Self reliance, intelligent reasoning skills, and strong imagination with these children provide an excellent backdrop for this series of books, as well as strong roll-models for any youngsters reading them.
Dick and Dorothea Callum visit Nancy and Peggy. It looks like they are going to have a wonderful summer sailing and adventuring under the supervision of Uncle James (Captain Flint) when Great Aunt Maria unexpectedly comes to chaperone the Amazons. Dick and Dorothea are forced to hide in a little shack in the woods while Nancy schemes to protect them from discovery. Fun book, less serious and intense than most of the outings with Dick and Dot.
As always, Arthur Ransome gives the reader the perfect summer vacation in book form: I broke my rule of only allowing myself one Ransome book per summer because my summer was going so poorly, and I'm glad I did--this is even better than its predecessor, The Big Six, showing no sign of waning talent as the Swallows and Amazons series nears its finale.
Nancy and Peggy's idea to hide dick and dorothy in the dogs home while there Great aunt is there is quite adventures. while they are hideing nancy and peggy put on there best behaviour trying to sneak away from there mean Great Aunt to help teach dorothy and dick to sail in there new boat named the Scarab
One of my favourites of the series, even though the Swallows don't feature. I always wonder if things couldn't have been done better by the martyrs, especially the need for the burglary, but there is always entertainment here as we are transported to the adventures of a different world.
Oooh, I was on the edge of my seat the entire time, wondering if they would make it! How perfectly wonderful! I love this entire series so incredibly much. The brilliant writing, the endearing characters, the daring adventures! It is everything a book should be. So much love!!!
Love it. They're getting away with fooling the great-aunt so far! And they really keep it up, against all expectations.One of the best of Arthur Ransome's books. I found this book in the Glendale library. LA downtown has is as well but only for reference.
Eleventh in the Swallows & Amazons series. Just the Amazons and the Ds, back at the Lake. . .and the return of the Greataunt. Another adventure whose consequences would be MUCH different in our current age!
