https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6317155-the-proud-smiling-wanderer
Tại sao ư, bản thân Tiếu Ngạo là nơi Kim Dung bàn về chính tà hay nhất, nó phá vỡ mọi ước lệ trước đó về thứ gọi là bằng hữu, quân tử, thiện ác.Một Lệnh Hồ si tình, một Doanh Doanh kiều mỵ và thuỷ chung luôn khiến người đọc phải đi hết từ bất ngờ này sang bất ngờ khác.Kim Dung dụng bút trác tuyệt, luôn làm người đọc bất ngờ với những nút thắt mở đúng chỗ và thời điểm.
Nhưng có lẽ mình thương Nghi Lâm hơn cả.Còn Doanh Doanh, she is the best.Thật tiếc cho người nào chưa đọc Tiếu Ngạo!
Updated with pictures and additional excerpts and reflections from reading the different editions of the novel."Suddenly, the sound of the zither turned loud and forceful, with the implication of battles and fights, but the flute play remained elegant and graceful.
In his postscript, Jin Yong explains that this was deliberate, as he "intended to employ the characters within the novel to depict certain universal phenomena from the three thousand years of Chinese political life." Indeed, the vicious politicking and back-stabbing intrigues among the Five Mountain Sword Schools and their enemy, the Sun Moon Holy Cult (Riyue Shenjiao) that form the meat of the novel can be easily transposed to any political stage.
đúng tiêu chuẩn đẹp-buồn-hài-bịnh :))hahachuyện bí ẩn là hồi xa xưa không ấn tượng gì mấy với doanh doanhvậy mà sau ngần ấy năm, một đêm của tuổi 23, nghe khúc sở hữu tư lại chợt hiểu ra lòng nàng, rồi xúc động rung rinh :D
People usually mislead martial novels as works for average readers.
But we can't deny, that with a little pondering, most readers can find themselves in there, where they can live with ideals they hardly experience in reality.
To me, Jin Yong's works are small pictures of life, written with his deep thoughts, reflection and living experience.
And I can't help feeling a close connection reading his works.This novel is one of my favourite among his other fine works, which I will come back again and again, to re-assure my life values after experiencing tastes of living and to find a shelter after most of the dreams are bent and broken.
Tiếu Ngạo Giang Hồ
My favorite book from Jin Yong. I re-read it once every year. I still wonder whether there is a good quality translation so I can introduce it to my non-Chinese friends. Jin Yong is a great Chinese author. He came from a scholar's family (as far back as early Qing dynasty) and wrote fourteen great books. His books are like reading the story of "Crouching tigher, Hidden Dragon," but with a lot more breadth and depth. They are also often very funny. His books are tremendously influential among Chinese speakers.
Fantastic book. I can't describe how much I love the 2 main characters, Linghu Chong and Ren Ying Ying. Linghu Chong is a very believable character, someone I can imagine in read life. He is loyal, loving, and never forgets his roots. Yet he is also proud and playful, which makes him less perfect and more human.
A story about someone who never frowns at misfortune, who can laugh even in the face of death, and who lives through life without any ambition is always admirable. Leave it to Jin Yong to create an incredible adventure for such a character, combined with lovable supporting characters and unique enemies. Definitely one of my favorite books ever.
Love this one! Ren Ying Ying is absolutely my all-time favorite Jin Yong heroine! It's been a long time since I last read any Jin Yong novels though, so should probably revisit one of these days....will definitely start with re-reading this one when I do!
相比之前的书剑恩仇录等几本，笑傲江湖真是上品。好看！
Hampir sama ceritanya dengan To Liong ToPemuda yg jago silat dan dari kalangan putih yg mencintai putri dari jagoan besar dari kalangan hitam yang menceritakan tentang gak selamanya yg putih itu benar dan yg hitam itu salah .....and there happy ending seperti kebiasaan Chin Yung
read this translated piecemeal, courtesy of VERY kind people on the net! the movies did a better job, conceptually. jin yong's ending is a little strained. anyway, it's very enjoyable, esp if you like swordplay :P
於個人造詣有所助益，相當推薦!
Translations diverge) it is at the same time light and dense: at 40 chapters and relying heavily on action, enough things happen in a single chapter that by the end it feels like you've read a 5 book series.
It's good.PS:I do love that the author went about 5 chapters before deciding that main character wasn't the best point of view for the story (you can actually see the moment he decided to switch: it's about 3 chapters into the series, when everyone from Huashan school is in the tea shop singing Linghu Chong's praises) and then turned the former protagonist into an antagonist.
Đọc xong cuốn này đúng tròn hai tuần, mô phật, truyện gì mà dài dữ vậy.
Nguyên truyện chỉ ưa bọn đào cốc lục tiên :)))), hình như trước giờ toàn nảy sinh thiện cảm vs thể loại kiểu này, vừa xấu vừa ngu :))))À còn nữa, đọc xong nảy bệnh tâm tư với cô nàng Nhậm Doanh Doanh, người gì đâu vừa đẹp vừa hào khí ngất trời, có khi cho nàng làm nv chính có khi còn oách hơn cái tên Xung Xung gì đấy :)))
The protagonist progress through the novel in the middle of endless power struggles.
Even the protagonist, though depicted as carefree, is binded by his internal struggle with Confucius teachings of piety and love.
Perhaps this is as free a "good" man the author was able to conceptualize in mid 20th century China.
There was no character development throughout the novel, every character began and ended as the same character, what changed is their political status.This is a book about the struggle for political power.
Some of the internal struggles the protagonist experiences deeply gets redundant as there was no character development.
Vốn Lệnh Hồ Xung suýt nữa được làm nam chính hoàn hảo nhưng Kim gia lại để cho hắn sống tình nghĩa quá, vì mối tình đầu mà khóc bao nhiêu lần, từ đấy mà bị tên nguỵ quân tử sư phụ Nhạc Bất Quần lợi dụng.
Nhậm Doanh Doanh lại là một nữ chính hoàn hảo, tuy xuất hiện trong truyện không nhiều.
Đoạn về Đào Cốc Lục Tiên thoạt đầu thấy hơi khó chịu vì lan man quá, hoá ra có dụng ý khi cho mấy nhân vật quái dị này vào.Bộ này vốn dĩ chiêu thức về kiếm và nội công không quá nổi bật do Kim gia tập trung vào những mưu mô gian kế hơn, cái hay lại nằm ở chỗ này.
Great storytelling with clear implications in real life.
Jin Yong does what he does best: using heroes and Kung-Fu to discuss humanity and philosophy.
Xiao Ao Jiang Hu is perhaps his best work.
That several main characters aren't even mentioned in the first half of the book is a sign that the author may not have thoroughly planned out the story, and that there are places where the reader might become eager to skip through several paragraphs to jump to the chase is an indicator that the pacing of the story could have been better thought out, but these minor flaws cannot stop this book from becoming a shining beacon of Chinese literature.
I defenitely enjoyed reading this book. an excellent mix of humour, storytelling and sword art. Some passages were quite long especially the conversations involving the 6 fairy peaches. But i have to admit that they had me rolling over the floor laughing at times.The first Wuxias i read were Wang Dulu's "Crane Frightens Kunlun" & "Precious Sword, Golden Hairpin" from the Crane Iron Pentalogy.Those were majestic!
媽媽常說：「你這一輩子，總是要看一看金庸的武俠小說。你一看，便會愛不釋手。」 我一直都不是太相信媽媽所說的這番話，直到我藉著這次的機會開始看金庸的《笑傲江湖》。現在，我可以肯定的跟你說，人的一生，絕對不能錯過金庸的小說。 我剛開始看時，覺得它有點兒悶，因為不太了解江湖裏所發生的事。後來出現了主角令狐沖，故事變得十分緊張和刺激。每一場劍法的鬥爭，都是經過金庸筆下的修飾，令讀者如臨其境，把每一個角色的神情變化，描繪的栩栩如生。 這本書最主要是講述了各個門派之間的鬥爭，以及各人爭取練成「葵花寶典」。故事的最後，華山派掌管的岳不羣練成了「葵花寶典」，由男人變成了女人。
每个人都可以从这本书中看到自己的影子～
Weird english name
不错
Best novel by Jin Yong
记不清具体什么时候读的了 不过Goodreads上有先生的作品还是很欣慰
It is a wonderful novel which depicts Chinese Kung fu, humanity and politics as well. The author understands China and Chinese very deeply.
扣一星因为实在不懂为啥总是透露出一股小师妹最高的气息，第一眼就不喜欢她，矫情愚蠢贼讨厌。我爱盈盈。
Đọc lâu quá rồi. Phải có quách tĩnh k nhỉ ;)) thương quách tĩnh mãi ;))
This series actually comprised of 4 books.
Reading this as my Chinese reading skill was getting rusty.first book completed 12/13/2016Second book completed 12/17/2016 (it got really good..)Third book completed 12/19/2016 (it's SO INTENSE I CAN'T PUT IT DOWN)Final book completed 12/28/2016This book was written at a time where the author was a newspaper columnist, witnessing the political turmoil in his time and decided to use his fiction to depict his insights.
Although he simplified a lot of the character's common sense and personality, he was still able to capture the essence of each character, in order to tell a not only gripping story, but also one filled with irony and acknowledgement of the wonders and downfall of human nature.
Easily one of the best novel series ever written, and my personal favourite out of Jin Yong's impeccable repertoire. The story revolves around the pretext of Good vs Evil and how differing points of view exists depending on which side of the fence you are on. The main character is someone of moral good, yet plenty of weaknesses that turns out to be the character's main strength and unique character. The plot is excellently crafted and woven with deep intricacies that leaves you pondering for long periods of time after finishing the story. Simply amazing.
