https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62805.The_Sound_of_Waves
At the surface a heart wrenching story of impossible love but on a deeper layer also a melancholy cry against the encroachment of the modern western world to the simple life of rural Japan.
This is a happy story, like the fairy tales and folklores that have been passed down from one generation to the next; we’ve all learned that good things come to good people.
Of all the metaphors in the novel, the strongest one by far is the one in the title - the sea is ever present, taking the role of the Greek chorus from the ancient plays, always singing in the background, marking the passage of time and the inner turmoil of the characters to the rhythm of the waves breaking powerfuly on the island's promontories.
There is no place on the small island to hide away from their constant rumbling, they follow Shinji even when he goes away on a voyage to prove his manhood, when the sea rises up like an angry god and punishes the mortals by unleashing a hurricane.
I'm probably crazy and am imagining a considering feeling between Yukio Mishima and me.
Not simple life stuff like gossip and possession.
She's beautiful in the wake up and smell the flowers kind of way.
But I like sunsets and watching fish underneath the water.
I'd want them to stay under there forever and never have to come up (guess that rules out life as a simple fisher woman or diving woman, like Hatsue or Shinji's mother).
I felt like Mishima wanted to be like Shinji and Hatsue.
All she wanted was to smile beautifully like they did.
Kinda BR with Lau and Shii :P "But the strange way in which love can torture the heart with desire was no longer a novel thing for him." Mishima was a peculiar author and his uniqueness is reflected in Shinji and Hatsue's love story. You can expect Mishima's commitment to the island with detailed, aesthetic descriptions just as much as to breasts and tanning. Star-crossed lovers are often fated and forced to chose between life and love so I thought I knew what to expect from The Sound of Waves.
Mishima was a peculiar author and his uniqueness is reflected in Shinji and Hatsue's love story.
You can expect Mishima's commitment to the island with detailed, aesthetic descriptions just as much as to breasts and tanning.
Star-crossed lovers are often fated and forced to chose between life and love so I thought I knew what to expect from The Sound of Waves.
What I was not expecting was to fall in love with the islanders.
With unpretentious charm, The Sound of Waves is a simple yet entrancing thing.
Now that we’ve established this (or rather he did through a couple of scenes and descriptions)…This is a story that embraces modern sexuality and teenage angst, a love story involving a young fisherman, Shinji, and a rich man’s daughter named Hatsue.
Set within the small fishing village of Uta-jima, there are lots of intricacies about the fishing life to be admired: octopus-fishing, seaweed diving, and more.Even with Mishima’s occasional bobble with metaphoric language, stylistically, this is a novel to be admired.
This examination of innocent love and the male-female dynamics is effective most likely because of the way Mishima balances the imagery of the sea, with the youthful tone of the novel.
Ada ve insanları bu aşk hikayesinin yan karakterleri olmaktan öte kendi dertleri ve tasaları içinde karakter olarak ortaya çıkıyor.Kitabı okurken, Mişima yıkım sonrası Japonya’sında bu kadar saf bir hikayeyi yazmaya neden ihtiyaç duydu diye çok düşündüm ve eski yani artık ölmüş Japonya’nın sıradan insanları ve basit yaşamlarına son bir saygı duruşu çabası olarak yorumladım.
Denizi Yitiren Denizci) Velhasıl, başka bir Mişima gösterdiği için bu küçük adaya, süngerci kadınları ve balıkçı erkeklerine teşekkür ederim.Mişima değil aşk hikayesi 0-0 biten bir amatör lig futbol maçı yazsa da okur ve keyif alırım ama Mişima dünyasına yeni girecek o şanslı okura başlayacağı yerin bu kitap olmadığını da söylemek isterim.
This was an endearing book about how a boy meets a girl. It reminded me of Romeo and Juliet a bit although with a much happier ending. ☺
This was an endearing book about how a boy meets a girl. It reminded me of Romeo and Juliet a bit although with a much happier ending. ☺️
Λατρεύω τους περισσότερους κώδικες τιμής των λαών της ανατολής κι έτσι το βιβλίο ήταν όπως περίπου το περίμενα. Η μόνη παρατήρηση είναι ότι σε αρκετά σημεία νομίζω είχε πρόβλημα η μετάφραση. Ενιωθα ότι ο μεταφραστής απλά μετάφρασε κάποιες προτάσεις από τα ιαπωνικά τελείως στεγνά, χωρίς να γίνεται και εννοιολογική μεταφορά. Δεν είμαι ειδική οπότε μην το πάρετε τοις μετρητοίς. Συνολικά το προτείνω για την διαφορετικότητά του.
diğer kitaplarından farklı görülse de Mişima derinliğinin buram buram hissedildiği bir kitaptı yine. Pastoral romantik bir anlatımla devam ederken bir de bakmışsınız bölüm sonunda sizi öyle bir tasvir karşılamış ki allak bullak olmuşsunuz. Mişima anlatımı ile edebiyata, anlattığı olaylara kesinlikle boyut kazandıran bir yazar. Daha romantik bir yapıya sahip bu kitabında da o derinliği görmek mümkün.
Mişima’dan okuduğum ikinci kitap bu. İlki olan Denizi Yitiren Denizci’den bir tık daha aşağıda bu romanı ama tad vermesi aynı seviyede. Jack London’nın Japon ikizi gibi geliyor bana. Gerçekçilik, doğa sevgisi, şiddeti aktarmada ki zarafet, tanım zenginliği ve sürükleyici bir kurgu ikisinin ortak yönleri. Sıra Dörtleme’sinde artık.
Celle-ci s'oppose aux valeurs traditionnelles sur l'île, le respect de la religion, de la famille, des bonnes manières ainsi que le mode de vie ancestral, basé sur la pêche.La mer peut être violente sans être hostile et les tempêtes constituent toujours des moments forts du récit, mais c'est surtout une mer nourricière pour Shinji, le jeune pêcheur au cœur noble, comme pour Hatsue, plongeuse pure et virginale.
Mishima insiste sur l'absence de duplicité de ses protagonistes, ce qui donne au roman une qualité de conte aux valeurs chevaleresques.Il s'attache par contre, comme un ethnographe, à nous faire sentir la géographie de l'île (les sommets étant le phare, une vieille tour de garde et le temple), la disposition des pièces et le mobilier des maisons...
Bu mutlu romanla Mişima dünyasına adım attım.
«Oyó el rumor del oleaje que rompía en la orilla, y fue como si su sangre joven se agitara al ritmo de las grandes olas marinas.»  Hace muchos años que sentía intriga por este libro, me pasa mucho con los que tienen títulos lindos y poéticos (un día eso me va a jugar en contra).Es el primer libro que leo de Yukio Mishima –aunque no será el último– y sólo con el principio me enamoré del estilo del autor. Para mi gusto, el Capítulo 1 da  cátedra  de cómo se debe describir un lugar para teletransp
y que sin embargo para la segunda vez en que se ven las caras ya me tenía alentándolos mentalmente como si llevaran 300 páginas juntos.He aquí un muy buen ejemplo de cómo hasta el "amor instantáneo" puede crear una gran historia si quien escribe sabe lo que hace.Además de los protagonistas (tan queribles ellos), hay unos cuantos personajes que tendrán su momento de historia personal, si bien en su gran mayoría estarán relacionados de algún modo con Shinji y Hatsue.
Which, truth be told, is perfectly okay with me, because this is an absolutely stunning novel that I probably never would've read if it weren't for my International Baccalaureate program.The book centers around a young teen romance that seems destined to never be achieved - yes, a typical plot, but it is approached so atypically by Mishima.
Mishima is a bit older, a bit darker, and a bit stranger, which makes his work all the more compelling.This would be a good starting novel for someone who's never read any Asian literature, as well as a good continuation for those who've only read Murakami.
Só as ondas são tumultuosas neste romance de amor sem pecado e com final rosado.
Tumultuante simplicidade.“À luz da vigia, Shinji estudou a fotografia de Hatsue. A rapariga estava apoiada a um pinheiro alto do cabo Daio e a brisa marinha erguia a fímbria dos seus vestidos, remoinhando sob o ligeiro quimono branco de Verão e acariciando-lhe a pele nua. A coragem do rapaz reforçava-se com a recordação de que também ele fizera aquilo que agora o vento fazia na imagem.” (P.144)
Con su envolvente y característica prosa, el escritor nipón demuestra una habilidad pasmosa para transportarte a la remota isla de Utajima y que puedas percibir sus paisajes, costumbres, aromas o incluso el embate del viento.
El romance que surge entre Shinji, un joven curtido en las lides de alta mar, y Hatsue, la hija del comerciante más rico del pueblo, transmite un enternecedor candor juvenil capaz de sobreponerse a cualquier obstáculo.
Pero no se trata de un amor edulcorado o empalagoso; más bien, Mishima trata de retratarlo como una fuerza más de la naturaleza, un impulso puro, pausado pero constante, que acaba agotando la paciencia de sus adversarios, puliendo el carácter y sacando a relucir lo mejor de cada individuo.
Aşık olarak tamamladığım bir kitabı daha bitirdim. Mişima'nın neredeyse fazla tek kelime dahi olmayan dupduru anlatımıyla, Şarkılar adası, balıkçılar, dalgıç kadınlar, deniz fenerleri, adadaki doğal yaşam, doğanın yumuşak sert tüm halleri, içinde yaşayıp bildiğiniz bir yerdesiniz hissi veriyor. Üstelik en güzeli iyilik ve umut dolu bir kitap bu. Kendinize benim gibi "ada hikayeleri konulu kitaplar" diye bir liste yapıyorsanız mesela, Dalgaların Sesi'ni gönül rahatlığıyla üst sıralara yazın derim.
Mišimina rečenica stvarno pruža veliko uživanje, ali sama narativa je poprilično ustaljena i, pa, bajata. Od tipične hepiend romanse, doduše nesporno tople, izmedju siromašnog i blago rečeno jednostavnog mladića (ali zato snažnog i dobrog, ma na leba da ga mažeš) i naaaaajlepše devojke u selu (sa, naravno, mrgudom ocem koji ipak samo želi ono najbolje za nju), jer može li drugačije, daleko mi je interesantniji bio duh i atmosfera ruralnog Japana, kao i neki sitni detalji nevezani za glavnu nazovi radnju. Mislim da ću se vratiti Mišimi, ali u nekoj knjizi drugačije tematike.2+
okurken hep bir sürpriz bekledim, hatta nedense kötü son beklentisi içine girdim.
yeşilçam filmlerine mumasil, yumuşacık aktı kitap ve son cümlede beklediğim damgayı vurdu.
öykü ne kadar saf ve dokunaklı olursa olsun bir bit yeniği arıyor sanırım modern insan dediğimiz çöp kovası.kadın ve erkek tabiatı üzerine ince tesbitler gözden kaçmıyor.
çeviri ile ilgili ufak tefek kusurlar var.
kitabı orijinal dilinden okuma imkanım şu an için mevcut olmadığından, "neden sonra" zarfının sıklıkla cümlelerin/paragrafların başında kullanılıp kullanılmadığını bilemeyeceğim.
bir süre sonra, iş işten geçince, uzun zaman sonra, aradan hayli zaman geçince(bkz.tdk)...
vb alternatifleri varken yan yana iki yaprakta iki paragrafı "neden sonra" ile başlatmak bir çevirmen ya da editör hatası gibi göründü bana.
Shinji was too sweet a character for a Mishima novel. He lacked the destructive personality and anti-authority sentiments of a Mishima protagonist. I knew I wasn't going to enjoy this one when Shinji talked of how he dreamed of owning a freight ship to relieve her mother of her duties.
A beautiful, simple and classic story of the trials of love. Also, these Vintage editions are just gorgeous.
Ho volutamente optato per qualcosa di breve, così da farmi un'idea del suo stile.
Devo ammettere che la prosa è scorrevole ma soprattutto molto evocativa e suggestiva, è in grado davvero di trasmettere la sensazione di trovarsi a passeggiare nell'isola di Uta-jima; in mezzo a quella gente così ingenua e dalla mentalità arretrata dove sono le tradizioni e l'integrità morale a predominare ed il progresso non ha ancora scombussolato il suo equilibrio, lasciando natura e paesaggi incontaminati.
Ecco, il pregio del libro è appunto l'accuratezza nelle descrizioni delle varie ambientazioni, mentre il difetto sta proprio nella caratterizzazione dei personaggi sia primari che secondari...
If you love the sea as I do, then please don’t hesitate to read this book.
If I don’t go to a beach every few months, then I feel like there is this piercing absence of a good friend from my life.
But like most of the Japanese authors I have read, there is a lyricism that touches you.
There is a Zen-like poetry to the words that transport you the way good books should.
A beautiful and atmospheric rendition to the joy of love, its agonies, and one of the few novels I have read where the sea and the lighthouse are main characters.
Basit ama sevgi dolu. Japonya ile ilgilenenler için harika bir kitap.
These place and time make the reader aware of what had made the young Yukio Mishima happy: women's breasts.
But beneath the sunburned skin the sun had created a lustrous, semi-transparent color like that of honey.
Any day now there'll be some handsome young swain to pet them into shape for you.'"Standing as these breasts' polar opposite, however, is suicide which had cropped up in as many times breasts did in the story, presented as an option (never taken though) to solve life problems of the protagonists.
What a novel ?! oh my God , how gentle and high moral was the characters !! it was really amazing story of a first love between two innocent good spirits , i loved Japan through this book , and Yukio Mishima's description of scenes makes you really hear the sound of waves love love love .
Mishima excels here when he finds little tableaux upon which he can let that shit flourish, in this case an episode at a youth club that creates a society and casts protagonist Shinji in relation to that society with enviable efficiency (even though it (view spoiler)[never fucking pays off (hide spoiler)]) and a scene involving a storm that's not only captivating but so immersive and vivid they don't even need to do a movie of this one (even though it (view spoiler)[sets up everything wrong that happens in the ending and has little to do with the arc overall (hide spoiler)]).
It’s a deceptively simple and universal love story, and told with such fluidity and gentleness, but of course there are the typical Mishima undertones of the hollow corruption created by Western influence, the repressive class structure of Japan, the sacrifice of the individual at the altars of family and tradition, etc.But you sort of have to let the poetry and politics here wash over you, I think this is one to be read quickly and eagerly.
It’s only thinking back on it and after a second read that I realized what a classic this is, maybe even more so than his real “classics.”
Mientras leía, no podía dejar de pensar que estaba ante un Mishima "inusual" y, en parte, así era.
Si miramos con detenimiento, vemos que Mishima, y sus "temas", siguen estando presentes: la añoranza por la pureza de lo "tradicional", la naturaleza, el desasosiego de la sociedad nipona después de la guerra y, ante todo, ese culto masivo a lo masculino, al cueepo, y a las proezas físicas (la última frase de la novela es lapidaria al respecto).Y el mar...siempre el mar
