https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334078.Max_Perkins
I read this about twelve years ago when I was enamoured with Scott and Zelda and harboured ambitions myself of becoming an editor.
Max Perkins discovered Scott Fitzgerald, Hemingway and Tom Wolfe, among others and was their editor and friend.
This is a fabulous biography of a truly admirable man and editor and a wonderful period in American letters (lots of great anecdotes about Fitzgerald, Hemingway and Wolfe).
Last night I watched the film Genius about Perkins' relationship with Thomas Wolfe and loved it.
So pleased Max Perkins has been honoured on the big screen.
And surprised just how good Jude Law was as Tom Wolfe…
A. Scott Berg's biography of Max Perkins, though, is such an insightful, lyrical, and just plain fun work that I found myself as deeply engrossed as I would be in any juicy new novel.
His account of the life of Max Perkins, the soft-spoken self-effacing visionary who edited the likes of Fitzgerald, Hemingway, and Thomas Wolfe is so vibrant and full of fun literary gossip that it is damn near impossible to put down.
Perkins's devotion to his authors -- often at the expensive of his wallet (see: Fitzgerald), his pride (see: Hemingway), and even his mental health (see: Tom Wolfe) -- is touching and inspiring.
Писането и леко хаотичната подредба на събитията на места са за 4 звезди. Но тематиката, ах, тематиката свири виртуозно по най-тънките струнки на душата ми.Така че 5 звезди от мен, обективността да върви по дяволите!
Ура! Бавно се чете, но е много важна и полезна книга, за всеки, който обича литературата. Бърг е хвърлил огромен труд и направил точно това, което Макс Пъркинс заслужава - една голяма и хубава книга.
A fascinating story that is about the authors of Max Perkins as much as it is a biography of Perkins himself.
I think the book would be of interest to anyone who enjoys biography, but it's also an important read for writers, editors, and students of writing and literature.As for me, the nature of biography is to cover absurd amounts of information, and this biography's nature was especially complicated due to the fact that Perkins lived through his authors and so their stories must be told to elucidate his.
I struggled with the chronology of the book, which unnecessarily exploded each chapter with dozens of characters of varying levels of consequence.
He made the life of a bookish editor interesting, and he not only taught me about Perkin's life, but about how an editor can forge an intense relationship with a writer, taking that writer's talent and focusing it and nurturing his writing so that what emerges is a great American novel.
Perkins did this for F.
Scott Fitzgerald and The Great Gatsby, Thomas Wolf's You Can't Go Home Again, and many other classic American authors.
After I read this book, I wanted to read all the books the Berg dissects in this fascinating analysis of the creative process between author and editor.
Тази би0графия е изпълнена с живота на толкова силни (Ърнест Хемингуей), съдържателни (Скот Фицджералд), вдъхновяващи личности (Томас Улф), че на корицата й трябва да има предупреждение: "Внимание: рискувате да изгубите собствената си самоличност в битието на Максуел Пъркинс".Страхотна книга. Страхотна работа на А. Скот Бърг. Успя да ме пренесе в друго време, да ме запознае с друг свят, с други герои и злодеи, различаващи се от днешния. 4.5/5
Supongoq ue a todos los lectores nos interesan este tipo de publicaciones, es imposible no sentirse atraído
Геният-звероукротител Макс Пъркинс: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/g...Тази книга я приемам лично.
Защото мнозина с лекота биха казали, че той свети с отразена светлина от Томас Улф, Скот Фицджералд и Ърнест Хемингуей, тримата големи сред десетките, които е открил, окрилил и издал, но сред страниците на “Геният” А.
Писателските портрети не са ласкави в тази книга, не са възторжени и преклонителни, дори напротив – Макс Пъркинс е буквално звероукротител на тия буйни таланти, които имат нужда от него, за да канализират уменията си, да оформят книгите си, да се представят пред читателите и да получат жадуваните слава и признание.
It came as little surprise to learn that A.
It has taken me a long time to get around to learning about the man who was instrumental to the successful careers of Hemingway and Fitzgerald.
Wolfe is an author that hasn't pinged my radar at all before this but I'm chomping at the bit to read him now.
I'm devastated now that I know about Wolfe, to learn that Jude Law will play this role.
I teared up a little as I finished the book even though I knew how it was going to end.
Read the book anyway.
Bibliography about thomas wolfe , who is genius inspired the works of many other authors and also inspired me in different way. he do incredible efforts in writing.Unfortunately , this greatest man is not famous as deserve
Although Perkins is the most famous fiction editor in known history (sorry, Gordon Lish), little about his personal life and character was widely known before Berg's eminently readable bio.
Perkins was a Victorian through and through, so he can come off as a little stodgy, but he was devoted to his writers.
The famous trifecta of Hemingway, Fitzgerald, and Wolfe get a lot of attention, of course---though those familiar with their many, many (too many?) biographies may find some of the stories well trod.
Berg's bios of Lindbergh and Kate Hepburn are now better known, but this was the one that made him the big cheese in this genre.
Рядко биография се лее по начина, по който се лее „Геният“. Той е малка река на времето. На времето, в което бъдещето е станало част от ежедневието. Бърг майсторски е успял да прелисти живота на един забележителен в своята професия човек без хиперболи и апотеози, а краят на книгата оставя отворен един вечен въпрос – за смъртта на човека/твореца и наследството, което той оставя след себе си. „Мисля, че няма да е преувеличено да кажа, че от писане просто изчезнах в написаното.“(Томас Улф)http://knijno.blogspot.bg/2016/11/blo...
Max Perkins was the classic example of a fine book editor, discovering and developing such talents as F. Scott Fitgerald, Thomas Wolfe, Ernest Hemingway, Taylor Caldwell, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, James Jones, and many others. Always putting the writer first, he deflected personal publicity in favour of working behind the scenes. His own life, however, was as distinctly fascinating as any of his authors and had secret sides to it. A. Scott Berg does a masterful job of peeling back the layers of a man who was as reserved as he was brilliant. A great read! - BH.
The book balances Perkins' personal life and professional one, although his professional life often crossed over (he was the father Wolfe never knew; the counselor Fitzgerald desperately turned to as his life fell apart, and Hemingway's drinking buddy.) It was Perkins' patience and encouragement that kept many an author from giving up and all of us benefit as we read the works of these timeless classic writers.Berg reveals the fascinating persona of this enigmatic man.
Queriendo o no este libro pone en valor la labor del editor y su importancia. Aunque el editor debe estar en la sombra, como decía Perkins, y no en el foco.Te hace preguntarte cómo hubiera sido la obra de grandes escritores sin el trabajo Max Perkins. ¿Hubieran llegado siquiera a la imprenta?Una biografía reveladora y amena, aunque algunos capítulos se leen con menos agilidad, nos descubre una y varias historias. La del genio de la literatura, y la historia de otros genios (Thomas Wolfe, Scott Fitzgerald o Hemingway).
This is the biography of Max Perkins, editor for Scribner's who worked with Scott Fitzgerald, Ernest Hemingway, Thomas Wolfe, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings and many more authors in editing their classics. Berg does a wonderful job in writing this amazing tale of Perkin's life and his amazing relationships with some of the most influential writers of that time period. I had seen the movie this book was based on and wanted to learn more and I was not disappointed. Highly recommended - I did not want this book to end!
It describes the creative challenge of taking Wolfe’s overlong and misshapen manuscripts and, over many months, cutting and shaping them into novels generally regarded as classics today.It was Perkins who encouraged Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings to write “a book about a child in the [Florida] scrub, which would be designed for what we have come to call younger readers.” Years later, in response to periodic encouragement from Perkins, she would write the best seller and Pulitzer Prize–winning book The Yearling.Perkins was a legend even during his lifetime.
He was an editor for a profit-seeking publisher, and he never needled a famous actress to write a book that would certainly sell to at least her fans.I've often made the observation that in the 20th century a book created a celebrity, whereas here in the 21st century a celebrity creates a book.So then here's to Max Perkins, who, from Mr. Berg's telling of it, was a fellow functional addict for chemicals and literature, in our opinion the height of human existence.
"Геният" ме придружаваше всеки ден в автобус №120 в продължение на доста дни, за което съм изключително благодарен на мистър Бърг. Направи дните ми далеч по-поносими.Макс Пъркинс - открил за света Фицджералд, Хемингуей, Томас Улф и много други - е наистина личност, за която си струва да си чете и пише. В книгата има страшно интересни неща за едно страшно интересно време в литературата, а вярвам и немалко вдъхновяващи примери. http://oshteedinblogzaknigi.com/2016/...
Max Perkins was the Scribner's editor during the golden age of American Literature. His clients included Ernest Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald and Thomas Wolfe. This is an outstanding work, well-cited and researched. I just loved it.
If you are a fan of Thomas Wolfe, F. Scott Fitzgerald and/or Ernest Hemingway, you need to read this book for insight into each man, the times they lived in, their challenges and successes, their climb to fame, and relationship with this incredible editor who helped guide their words to greatness. Thank you so much for your effort to write this book A. Scott Berg. Really well done!
Раздвоена съм – от една страна ми беше изключително интересно да чета за редакторската работа и творческия процес на Фицджералд, Хемингуей, Томас Улф (последният не ми е познат, но смятам да прочета единствената му издадена книга в България), подробности за личния им живот, за начина им на работа, за черти от характера им.
Ясно, че такава е редакторската работа, но това все пак е книга за редактора и е очаквах неговият живот, преживяванията и емоциите му да са водещи.Намирам епизодите, свързани с Томас Улф за особено привлекателни, може би защото авторът ми е напълно непознат.
A Scott Berg, the author of the book, discusses the transformation from page to screen in an interesting special feature on the DVD.
April 2016, original comments: A very-well written biography of Max Perkins, who became a major force in the world of books as a book editor unknown to the general public.
Scott Fitzgerald, in 1925, wrote Max to thank him for fixing the structure of "The Great Gatsby."Perkins and his sweeping changes led Scribner's to leap from the earlier age of innocence to the modern lost generation, those who came of age during World War I.
I had forgotten that there was no developmental editing at Scribner's until Max Perkins arrived in the early 20th century.
Perkins was the pioneer of developmental editing--i.e. he went beyond grammar & punctuation correction and assisted authors in shaping their work.
This was not co-authoring, but showing the writer where he or she could improve their work (including cuts) and sharing ideas for the writers to act on.Unfortunately the era of developmental editing is over.
I see it all the time in contemporary fiction and non-fiction---passages and tangents that should be cut and other problems that defend the books from being read.As my long-time friend and coauthor likes to observe-----Max Perkins is dead.
Andrew Scott Berg arrivò a Perkins seguendo i passi di Fitzgerald, il suo scrittore preferito.
Ripercorse la vicenda editoriale di Gatsby, il romanzo che lo ossessionava dall'adolescenza, e incontrò il nome di Perkins.
Capì subito che l'editor fu una presenza fondamentale nella vita professionale e personale di Fitzgerald.
Poi lo ritrovò nei libri di Hemingway, a lui lo scrittore dedicò la prima edizione del romanzo Il vecchio e il mare.
Max Perkins faceva errori di spelling, sosteneva un uso personale della punteggiatura, svincolato da ogni regola formale, ed era molto lento a leggere, «lento come un bue».
Ma per lui la letteratura era questione di vita o di morte.
A really interesting biography of Max Perkins, an editor most well-known now for discovering F.
There are times when Berg's coyness in telling anonymous anecdotes, coupled with his seeming desire to excuse Perkins' sexism with sexism, makes for a slightly frustrating read.
Perhaps it might also be more enjoyable for people who have an interest in Perkins' most famous authors (I am indifferent to Fitzgerald, can't abide Hemingway, and had never heard of Wolfe), though I was certainly interested in what I learned.
All in, however, this is a solid introduction to Perkins, and to the era in which he lived.
My main problem with this book is the fact that it was supposed to be a book about Max Perkins, and yet there is so little aboiut him in it.This book is full of interesting stories and anectotes about the greatest wrters of that time - Fitzgerayld, Hemingway, Wolfe, Galsworthy.
It's a fascnating book for every one who's a fan of said authors.
Those stories overshadow everything else though, and you're left fith the feeling that now you know almost everything about Fitzgerald and Hemingway, and close to nothing about Perkins.But as I sad, too little of Max Perkins in a book about Max Perkins...
Anyone who has ever spent any time writing or editing for publication should read this book. Max Perkins was, without a doubt, the best editor of American fiction in the 20th century. This book is entertaining and insightful.
I read this years ago and loved it. Amazing, interesting book!I am now watching Scott Berg (author of Max Perkins) on BookTV. He is talking about his new book: "38 Nooses, Lincoln, Little Crow and the Beginning of the Frontier's End" I am anxious to get to it.
