https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13830.The_Woman_Who_Rides_Like_a_Man
Alana still strikes me as an excellent role model for teenage girls, and she's as endearing to college-aged me as she was to preteen-me.That being said, I have one massive problem with "The Woman who Rides Like a Man".
It struck me as a blatant display of cultural imperialism.The Woman who Rides Like a Man has it's issues, but those problems can be the starting point for some great discussions.
Because it raises questions about gender roles, moral relativity, and cultural issues, it could be a great selection for a teen reading group.
I just want to burn this book and then make myself forget about it.This book is a synonym for horror.
The concentration of whiny-ass characters reached its maximum in this book.
Alanna is the ultimate Drama Queen that can't make up her mind - does she want to have passionate sex with George or Jon?
One of the biggest characteristics of this book is the "let's change these characters completely" or the famous "doing the 180".
I wanted to shoot myself during most of this miserable book.
Overall, this is one of those "I want to pull a Barney Stinson" kind of books again.
Delia is still here, and I'm kind of hoping that she's going to be the main villain in the next book, just so she has something fun to do.It's not the best book in the series, but overall The Woman Who Rides Like a Man is another great Alanna adventure, full of excitement and magic and swordfights and sex with cute boys and fantastic conversations like this, which all little girls need to study and remember:"'You are a terrifying creature,' the Voice told [Alanna] solemnly.
I opened this book sailing along on a certain ship... a ship that I'd been on since book 1 ... I was convinced my feelings were never going to change!  BUT THEN THINGS HAPPEN!!  And these things weren't making me happy ... NOT AT ALL HAPPY JON!! And Alanna reacted just exactly how I expected she would ... I thought I was fine...  Because George... AND NOW ... I don't even care, I ship Alanna with anyone she wants to be with. As long as they respect her as a knight and allow her to go on her adve
I opened this book sailing along on a certain ship...
a ship that I'd been on since book 1 ...
BUT THEN THINGS HAPPEN!!
And these things weren't making me happy ...
NOT AT ALL HAPPY JON!!
And Alanna reacted just exactly how I expected she would ...
I don't even care, I ship Alanna with anyone she wants to be with.
As long as they respect her as a knight and allow her to go on her adventures and experience life and everything it has to offer and figure out what she wants.
If you can do this, I will ship you with her...
I love this series because it features a strong female protagonist. In fact, all of this author's work is centered around young women, which I appreciate after reading so much Harry Potter (which I love, but which lacks balance between good male and female characters, at least in the early books). Some of the other collections get repetitive, but Alanna's story stays compelling through all four books.
The entire Song of the Lioness quartet is absolutely brilliant. What a great, uplifting series for young girls - it's smart, funny, brave, and terrifically exciting. I read this when I was in middle school, but I still get pleasure from re-reading it even today.
More adventures in store for Alanna after the conclusion of the second book in the series. A new phase of her education and a new phase of her growth as a human being, a woman and a knight. The desert setting is nice, but Alanna-turned-teacher was a bit boring after a while. On to the last book. Highly recommended for any pre-teen.
[4 Stars] I really enjoyed this one! It may be my favorite in the series so far! I'm glad I'm finally getting a chance to dive back into this world. I also just loved learning about the Bazhir and their traditions and overall just seeing Alanna out of a court setting! Also, can I just say girl power! Go Alanna!

Alanna doesn't go off into wild flights of fancy, and essentially stays with the Bazhir throughout the story which is unlike the first two books when she'd throw down for any little thing, and I think a lot of readers disliked that about this book.
I thought it was fine, but you know, I'm not as invested in these stories as some readers are.In other Alanna-news, she is well-versed in the ways of the sexual world by this book.
In book three of the Song of the Lioness series, Alanna has just received her Knight's shield and is anxious to be off on an adventure of her own making.
Heading southward, Alanna and Coram are attacked by murderous desert dwellers and are eventually rescued by the equally enigmatic Bazhir people who offer her two options: fight one of their own warriors and join the tribe or be killed.
All of Alanna's friends are wonderful but George has always been a standout for me.
This book finally showed a little more personality in Jonathan and, for good or bad, made for a more interesting character.Wherever she goes, Alanna draws attention.
Jon also makes me so sad, because like Alanna said, he is a good person at heart, but he's just let all this royalty and "nobleness" get to his head and has forgotten that not every woman is at his beck and call and will accept/do whatever he wants.
Alanna being with him constantly kept him somewhat grounded, but I'm hoping he remembers (I think he does later on) that woman have their own rights and thoughts and opinions.
I feel like there are so many important lessons that I should have thought over more, but I'm glad I own the book so now I can reread it as many times as I want)
2.5*This one was a bit of a letdown for me. The first half was great but after that point this was a mess.There was absolutely no need for the romantic drama. And that thing with Thom came out of nowhere...😑
I only have two highlighted notes, so I'll mention those and then talk about my general impressions of the book.First, I did not like this: "A skinny man wearing the green robes of a Bazhir shaman, or petty wizard, threw back his hood.
The rest of the book only does its absolute best to convey that impression.Second, I really, really liked the entire section where Jonathan discussed becoming the Voice.
I thought it was unlikely, though I did like that the magic of the ceremony means all the Bazhir know exactly what to expect from Jonathan and how he'll do.
I love that the pacing of this book finally slowed down a bit. You got to see some depth to some of the characters and see how they process things. Alanna really starts to come into her own. But I won't lie, this one has always left me extremely frustrated with most of the male characters.Video Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Co6Ug...
Each book is better than the last, and that's saying a lot considering how much I've enjoyed each previous book. I like the decisions Alanna's made up to this point, but most especially as of the end of this book, though I think she should probably check in on that brother of hers…Can't wait to start the final book, though I'm already wishing it didn't have to end. ;0)
I am always proud that Alanna turned Jonathan down. He's a spoiled,presumptive ass in this book, at the same time that he is brave, intelligent, and a leader. But Alanna calls him on his attitude, and throws off the responses that in some way the fight is "her fault". And it heartens me that Pierce shows what brats hormonal, hot-tempered teenagers can be - before they become respected adults.
Alanna becoming her own self as a woman. She don't want to marry just want to be adventurous. But with a marriage proposal she had to figure out what do she want. She's now also apart of a tribe that she likes.Her brother Thom dealing with magic he is causing others to be scared. Interesting take yet again just okay. I approve of my 13 year old to read.
In her first year as a knight, she joins and instills change upon the desert-dwelling Bazhir; witnesses Prince Jonathan become the Voice; swaps one Royal lover for another; and begins to understand herself as Alanna instead of Alan.
I HATE that George feels like a rebound in this.
Absolutely the text tries to make it not so, bit I'm sorry, it all screams REBOUND--especially because Alanna invites him to bed IMMEDIATELY after finding out that Jonathan had moved on to another woman.
I guess the gist of my feelings is this: I like Alanna and her adventures.
It seemed like everyone changed drastically for no clear reason at all.
I didn't like how Alanna immediately went to bed with George after she heard that Jon found a new princess.
I've taken a peek at the ending and realize that I am, for the hundredth time, rooting for the wrong guy in the love triangle again, so that's annoying, but I also wish the romance was handled better.
Thom also suddenly changed into this Roger 2.0 except without being subtle about it.
In the last book he still seemed like a very nice guy.
These are books it is impossible for me not to view through a nostalgia lens. There's a lot here that might raise my eyebrows coming from a more recent release, including the depiction of the pseudo-Arabs and Alanna's white savior role. And the pacing is odd--as with all Alanna books, I find my memory filled in a lot of interstitial material that simply doesn't exist in the book's actual bare-bones narrative. But I love Alanna and her story too much too care.Man that cover is awful, though. I always forget just how awful.
Super-into my re-read now! I really like how the relationships with Jon and George are developed. I guess I said that before, but everything's unfolding in a way that makes sense, which (also repeating myself) feels rare in YA.And I like Alanna growing to accept herself and who she is.Re-read January 2016Uh, I think I said everything in the comments of Kris's review.
3.5 starsReview can be found at FantasyLiterature.com.
This book is my least favorite of the Alanna quadrilogy. It's still a solid book, especially in the context that this book was so important for teenage girls when it came out.This book is basically Alanna off to have adventures. The book starts strong, with a fight between her and some desert bandits. Eventually she ends up spending time with the tribe and joining them. The majority of the plot of this book is really set up for the next book, but it's interesting to see the changes that time ha
The majority of the plot of this book is really set up for the next book, but it's interesting to see the changes that time has had on Alanna, Jon and George.
To be honest, at the end of the book, there is still a lot of growing for some of them to do *cough* Jon *cough*I do like that Alanna stays strong to wanting to be a knight and not wanting the kind of life that Jon does.
This does lead to Alanna spending more time with George, of which I do whole-heartedly approve.Again, this was a strong book, especially when it first came out.
It's like he had a complete personality change simply because the Author needed to create a bit of drama between them and give Alanna a reason to refuse his marriage proposal.
It's not bad exactly, but it's mediocre and not at all what I would expect of someone who gets such high praise for style.Content: Alanna sleeps with Jonathan, and later George, but Readers are not treated to any details (thank goodness).Conclusion: Apparently Alanna's twin brother has taken a turn towards arrogance and messing around with dangerous magic.
It has come up a lot in discussions about Young Adult books: How unrealistic the romance is.
The male love interested isn't REALLY perfect.) How being with that person will affect her life and goals.
Most importantly, how she wants to be treated by and because of that person.I always say I've read books where it is considered and it made for a great read.
They're a fascinating people and I enjoy how change slowly comes to them.
Thom isn't getting much page time, and I think Alanna is going to be super shocked by what is transpiring.
That love isn't just instant forever.
I also really enjoyed the scenes in Corus towards the end, the ones from George's POV.The less than good?
I mean, I've never liked him as a love interest for Alanna (a friend, yes, absolutely, but the second it turned romantic the relationship sours for me).
(view spoiler)[And the way it ends sort of sours Alanna's subsequent rebound to George.
I think I needed a few more scenes along the way of them falling for each other, and outside of the context of the love triangle with Jonathan.
(view spoiler)[Alanna being completely unconcerned with Thom just taking her gift is problematic, and honestly makes no sense.
(view spoiler)[Also…so she whines when he’s too ardent in his affections, she whines when he’s willing to treat her as just a friend.
Boo.He only has a little magic, and it’s the ability to feel her presence cuz they’re such True Loves?
(hide spoiler)]I’m also annoyed about how the main characters are made to be almost constantly perfect, with their only occasional pointed-out flaws being acting like annoying a-holes.
Like her apprentice pointing out that it’s unfair how she has like a million Super Magical Items is a sign of his being a fool?
if he did, book three would be called The Man Who Rides Like a Lady."A note: I want to point out the excellent contrast between this series/book and the Narnia series, specifically The Horse and His boy.
The difference is, Tamora Pierce portrays their culture in a positive way and consistently presents them as being equally valid to any other culture, despite their different ways of doing things.
In The Horse and His Boy, C.S. Lewis spends the whole book using every negative description or phrase he can while describe the Calormene culture (the food is too spicy, everything smells funny, their curved blades are wicked, their dark faces are sinister, etc.
Ugh. Thank you, Tamora Pierce, for not being like that.
This is my least favorite of the series, probably because of the fact it focuses more on the development of Alanna's magic than being a knight.
Alanna becomes shaman of a Bazhir tribe after killing the old, evil one.
It's a fun and interesting adventure for Alanna's first as a knight, but it doesn't live up to the knighthood ideal for me.
Alanna seems to be waiting for something in this book, and I am too.(view spoiler)[ I'm happy about the development between her and Prince Jonathan in this book.
