https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/259031.Why_We_Buy
Rather disappointing -- it reads like a book length sales brochure for Envirosell, the company the author founded. Every page follows the same formula: A foolish retailer was doing this. I told him to do this. He did, and he is now more virile, has a better looking wife, has more money than he could imagine, and he thanks me daily. This gets old. A few fun tricks of retailing are buried here and there, but the book should be subtitled: How to Get Rich Using Common Sense.
Women can go into a kind of reverie when they shop--they become absorbed in the ritual of seeking and comparing, of imagining and envisioning merchandise in use." Pg. 116 (wow)."Women * * * have traditionally understood the importance of the impermanent world--cooking a meal, decorating a cake, fixing hair and makeup." Pg 116 (this page was full of good ones)"We always advise our bookstore clients to group sections by gender, acknowledging the tendency of men to cluster in sports, business, do-it-yourself and computers while women troll psychology, self-help, health, food, diet, home and garden." Pg 146.I will not be reading his more recent book.
Firstly, Why We Buy should have been How They Buy, because 1) the book is about insights on shopping (and not shoppers), based on extensive observations of shoppers when they're shopping and, 2) it's addressed from the retailer's point of view, about what they can do to make people buy more things.The structure of the book goes something like this:* Opening scene: the retailers were basically village simpletons who happened to have stores that were being visited by cattle masquerading as customers.
He knows that people react this way (he says so in the book) but when Underhill says that online shopping will never overtake retail, I think that he isn't fully aware of the power of technology.
I would definitely recommend this book because after reading it you will never enter a store and look at it the same way.Favorite bits:"butt-brush effect....Shoppers would approach it, stop, and shop until they were bumped once or twice by people heading into or out of the store.
The author, from a science-sales point of view, thinks that books should have age ranges; that's scary to me, but understandable from a sales angle.
One key point he brings out is that most shoppers are REPEAT shoppers, and therefore a new audience has discrete boundaries.
I think libraries need to think about this when trying to increase statistics.
Maybe bringing in 3% more patrons isn't the goal...maybe increasing circulation to new and old patrons is.
"Personal stereo" made me giggle...no mention of ipod and hardly a mention of Apple, never mind Mac. The chapter on online sales is laughable...like reading a sci-fi novel from the 1800's.
It's very good...read it!
Here is a literary example of "good idea, bad execution." Underhill has lots of interesting little anecdotes, yet presents them in a disorganized, sometimes arrogant, sometimes wistful, and occasionally creepy style.
Some points I found interesting and profoundly true: -You need to be slowed down when entering a store from a parking lot (caught myself speeding past the section I needed in Target just the other day).
design your store with humans in mind; use a bit of common sense; remember that Underhill is brilliant.
The author's tone was a major turn-off. The main focus of the book was self promotion. A whole chapter patting himself on the back for hiring women branch heads? Seriously? Plus, even the revised edition is outdated. Trumpeting the success of Radio Shack and Blackberry rings holllow in 2016. I was hoping for some solid information on consumer psychology. I didn't find it in this book.
Hmph.This book is written by Paco Underhill, who presents himself as an arrogant, simple-minded know-it-all who left (cue schlocky singsong playground bully voice) "academia" to go out in the Real World to actually apply all these "scientific" things that he learned in the ivory tower to the retail world.
If you don't want to read the book, and I don't recommend that you ever do, this is essentially what it is: 'I mean, these retail simpletons were practically barring customers from their stores before I came on the scene!
I bought this out of interest in the psychology that prompts people to buy things—primarily online.
On that score, the book was pretty disappointing.
As other reviewers have pointed out, it’s more about the science of selling—and not even that so much as just shedding light on shoddy merchandise presentation.
And the (single) chapter on e-selling is pretty much a blow-off.
That said, what *is* here is fascinating, humorous, and highly entertaining.
Underhill shares anecdotes from a lifetime of studying shopping spaces and how people use them.
If I was a retailer in a physical store, I would have walked away with all kind of treasures.
The good: the book offers some insights into shopping behaviour and even more into the mistakes many retailers make by not treating human beings as people and rather as consumers.
It's generally an easy read if you can get past the ongoing advert for his own consulting company.The bad: for an author to spend so much time in telling us all the things people do wrong in trying to sell stuff, you might expect him not to completely miss-sell his own book.
A great example of how people get manipulated at all levels of life.
I really wanted to like this book and I think the "science of shopping" is pretty fascinating, but between all the author's snarky little asides about various example shoppers' appearance, weight, and behaviors, and the smarmy taint of evolutionary biology in all the chapters on men and women's different shopping habits, I just couldn't. Given Underhill's general attitudes about "modern women" in the workplace, men being overgrown babies incapable of looking after themselves, and his generally smug Boomer outlook on life, it is hard to believe that this book was written in 2000,
I will never be able to go into a business, especially a retail store, without an eye on traffic flow, product placement, the employee and purchaser environmental factors, along with signage, without thinking what I learned about the aforementioned topics. An enlightening read on "why we buy", and also an aid on possibly controlling why we buy. Great book.
I guess his point is good, that we miss the obvious...but repeatedly stated in such a 'tada!' manner that makes you want to dislike him very much.
(I still recommend reading it :)) ) The book is outdated because though I wanted to learn about online shopping strategies, no such information in this book.
If I want to cut it short the edition I read refers to the shopping experience as if the Internet did not exist.
Underhill describes in detail, how trackers (field researchers) researched the science of shopping – where products were presented best to help with th eflow of customers through the store how many customers buy a certain product at a certain time of the day, where shopping baskets should be located so shoppers will find them.
I couldn't see the point being driven at and skimmed the rest of the book, stopping now and then on interesting tidbits like stroller-pushers being effectively barred from many store shelves by the prohibitive narrowness of the aisles.
The only other chapter I cared enough about to read mostly through was 18, "The Self-Exam."In short, I thought the basic point was pretty well summarized up front and the rest was rabbit chasing; I couldn't see the forest (if there was one) for the trees.
I recommend reading the first few chapters and then (if your attention drifts) skip over to 18 and close the book.
Nevertheless, I really wish we could make every one of my coworkers read this book!The author uses actual research he's done over years and years to glean new insights into the world of shopping and the people who shop.
While he never talks about libraries specifically, the information he presents is useful in any retail or service setting.For example, the "butt-brush" effect is surprising and insightful; it's the concept that browsers, women especially, will only linger briefly in an area where they are being brushed or crowded by other shoppers or store employees.
He looks at what does or does not make people comfortable, where you should or should not put a sign to ensure it gets read, understanding who buys what and making it easier for them to buy it, etc.
Such ask, giving up a little counter space to allow a customer to put down their bags at a checkout can actually increase how quickly they can pay, thereby increasing sales per hour (we all know that if the line is too long customers will put down their purchases and leave), putting signs where people are busy or distracted is just clutter, putting it where they are captive/bored audience is actually appreciated (gives them something to look at).
I have a thing for anything involving sociology, so I expected to like this book. With the introduction of "the science of shopping" that includes sociology and psychology, it did not disappoint. Some of the obvious things the author points out are downright amusing. This was written more than a decade ago now, but even the author's views on online shopping and successful websites still make sense. Some of the things he suggests have been implemented and duplicated by now, but he still shares some great ideas about how to improve the shopping experience, which of course, will improve sales.
After reading this, I still have no idea why I bought it, or why the word "science" appears on the cover. Perhaps a better title would've been: "How To Design Your Store: Random Anecdotes And Unfounded Assertions (Also Did I Mention I Have A Consulting Business?)"Would not recommend, unless you're the kind of person who likes to read about the author's consulting business, and you accept advise and conclusions presented devoid of methods or evidence, in which case this book would be an excellent choice for you. Trust me.
Way too outdated and honestly the title is deceiving. It should be called "How to Set Up a Retail Store." It's mostly about positioning of merchandise and signs. The title does not fit the content. I understand the book was published years back, but that kills the relevance for me. So many of the "lessons" taught go against common business best practices now. Bottom line, only read this if you are an owner of a local retail store trying to increase sales. For the everyday reader, spend your reading time elsewhere.
Paco Underhill (with a name like that, how could you go wrong?) takes the tools that he learned as an anthropologist and in the 70's started applying them to the largest tribe in America: consumers and shoppers.
It turns out that retailers are willing to pay a lot of money to find out how many towels shoppers will handle before they purchase a set, how many feet from the entrance of a store a display should be placed for maximum exposure, etc.
Possibly, but the scales are tipped back in the favor of the little guy by the publication of this book.
I picked this up, thinking it might serve as a gift for someone difficult to engage in reading. Everyone shops, right? However, finding myself without reading material, except for this book, I started it and was sucked in, the first half or so of it being amusing and sometimes consciousness raising.My initial enthusiasm petered out towards the second half, author Underhill having become repetitive and predictable.
I guess it is a worthy book for a shop owner or a store manager, but it was not what i was looking for. I was hoping this book gives me an insight on what makes a product appealing to potential buyers and things like that.Also it made me feel that the author is trying to sell his business to the readers!
There are a few great points and ideas in this book, and if you are 100% new to merchandising it's eye opening. Though, as others have mentioned it does read a bit like a sales pitch.On the other hand, if, like me, you have a basic familiarity with the concepts then this book will be a little too basic. I was really hoping for something more in-depth.
A friend listened to the audio version and thought of me, so he bought me the book. (Hmmm... me and shopping? I don't see the connection.) I loved it! The author has a subtle sense of humor (doesn't try too hard) and the otherwise dull material was really quite interesting. I'll read it again sometime. Very interesting!
Outdated in some parts and unnecessarily autobiographical in many parts. This is easy to read and there are many good anecdotes and pointers but it doesn't get meaty and the author has an agenda to sell his company all the way through.
A fascinating look at how we shop. I listened to the audio book, and found myself really considering how I move through a retail space. He's spot on about the things that will make me quickly leave and the things that will make me buy more than I came for!
Also essential book for anyone curious about the culture of American (and now global) shopaholism. For some reason, I found "Call of the Mall" (the follow-up to "Why We Buy" a little more enjoyable, useful.
Lectura obligada para todos aquellos que quieran conocer las nuevas tendencias en estudios de mercado, la aplicación de técnicas de la antropología al entendimiento de los motivadores detrás de la compra. EXCELENTE.
A must-read for anyone in a selling profession. And, really, isn't that all of us?
