https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14889.Joy_in_the_Morning
This is one of the loveliest, sweetest books I've ever read. It takes a mental adjustment to appreciate the time period, so don't get thrown off by the relationship in the early pages of the book. The reward of watching the young couple's first year of marriage unfold makes the early awkwardness, and, frankly, shocking first bits worth it and actually understandable. This is not a plot driven book, but really a sweet story of young love at a "middle western" college.
Oh, this is just the sweetest, most realistic story of two young adults who are in love and naively believe that being together forever will solve all their problems.
Annie and Carl quickly realize that getting married against their families' wishes will be the least of their worries.
Annie is a dreamer, a reader, a warm and personable girl that everyone can't help but love.
Carl is smart, passionate, funny and diligent, a hardworking guy who earns respect and kindness from all the superiors in his life.
If you loved A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, you'll enjoy Joy in the Morning.
Overall, this story is authentic and heartwarming.
My mom passed this along to me a few years ago, and I finally picked it up this week after reading something about it on someone's blog.
It's hard not to love Betty Smith after "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn," so I was optimistic about this one.
I really wanted their lives to get easier, really wanted them to keep loving each other and not give up in spite of their fairly obvious flaws.
It reminded me of all I have to be grateful for - even the leaner years and struggles that seemed to last too long.
I love Betty Smith.
She grew up in Brooklyn, and is most known for her book "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn," which still ranks as my #1 book.I appreciate the way Betty Smith can make you attach to characters.
You feel like you are peeking into their windows and watching it first hand.
It is a struggle without feeling like a struggle.
I felt so grateful for my education and the opportunities available to me as a woman in the 21st centure, but the main character never made you feel sorry for her.
I read it in middle school, after a friend (Leah!) recommended it to me, and immediately fell in love with Annie (it helps that we share the same name!).
I had already read A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, but this wasn't anything like I expected.
Annie is completely charming, and will sweep you off your feet with her wholesome and winsome ways.
The book follows Annie and Carl's lives as a poor but earnest newlywed couple in the 1920's.
It is simply a book about a truly loving couple trying to make it together.
It's about taking pleasure in the small things, like joy in the morning.
I loved every page of this sweet and honest look at the first year and a half of marriage for young Annie and Carl.
It's impossible to not love Annie from the moment she babbles - in her thick Brooklyn accent - to the Town Hall marriage clerk about all the Middle West books she's read.
The love between Carl & Annie is true and, yes, uplifting.
But Smith never descends into schmaltz or sentimentality.
But then I thought about how only a writer as gifted as Smith could make this kind of story work.
That alone is a testament to Smith's talents.
Here I am reading this book again.
I love this book, but, it's interesting to learn so much about 1928.
The money, for one thing gets a bit confusing as you could get so much more with 1 dollar back then than now.
The frustrating thing is how few choices a woman had back then.
More later.7/17Read this book again, it's rather delightful in parts.
I like Annie better than Carl.
It will be interesting to live in a later time and wince at all the isms of this time and how they aren't the norm anymore.
The good thing about Betty Smith is that her version of heartwarming is always peppered with enough realism about the way life goes that she, narrowly, avoids sentimentality.I have read her most famous novel, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, several times.
Add to that her wisdom in how to keep Carl somewhat settled down when he (as we say in our house) "gets like he gets," and you can't deny she is a wonder.I must say that all of Annie's lovely and admirable qualities do strain a reader's credulity but somehow I never care when reading Betty Smith.
I wanted to read this one by Betty Smith because I liked "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" so much and I was also looking for a little nostalgia.Boy did I get nostalgia with this book.
I guess they were simple, yet I don't think people who live in America today could handle the poverty and the hard times as easily.I had to smile when Annie was thrilled to have a banana split for her Christmas gift....that was so sweet.
A simpler time it certainly was.This is a sweet sweet story that I will probably read again someday.
After reading and finishing "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn," also by Betty Smith, I wanted to read something else that she wrote, so I picked up "Joy in the Morning," which she wrote 20 years later.
Like "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn," "Joy in the Morning" is a novel with an auto-biographical theme.
Annie, the main character, is only 18 years old when she marries Carl Brown, who is all of 20 years of age.It wasn't nearly as good as "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn." But if you want to see what happens to Francie Nolan a few years after the end of "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn," you can pick up the story of Annie Brown in "Joy in the Morning" and not be disappointed.
A cute story about a young married couple's first year/year and a half of marriage. Also, it has something that I feel most people writing romance should pay attention to. You ready?It's a little thing called COMMUNICATION. THEY TALK THEIR PROBLEMS OUT AND IT IS BEAUTIFUL. Seriously, no more miscommunication in relationships. It's not necessary and also very annoying. *Gets off soapbox*15+ for marital discussions that are blunt (but not graphic) and language
What amazed me the most about Betty Smith in the stage when I was devouring all her books was that she weaved together such different plots in the same setting: amongst Irish immigrants in Great Depression era New York. The heroine of this book is older and much more outgoing than Francie in A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, but she's also literary, and this is the story of how she comes into her own in exploring her gifts.
If I could, this would be 3.5 stars. I felt like I was falling in love again for the first time with my husband. This story was a sweet love story and really had me reminising about courtship and being a newlywed. Anyone who has been poor and struggling as a newlywed, but so in love that it doesn't matter, will love relating to this book. It is an easy read and lighthearted.
I picked this book up because I loved A Tree Grows in Brooklyn so much.
The main female character is a lot like Francie in a Tree Grows in Brooklyn.
It's very apparent that author Betty Smith sees herself as this type of female protagonist.
She has a passion for books, and that sometime conflicts with what she sees as her "duty" in being a woman.
All in all, this was a great book about characters.
Not a plot book by any means, but the richness of the characters make up for it.
Where have you been all my life?
This definitely wasn't A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, but I decided that Betty Smith had such a gift for capturing certain times of life so accurately that you feel as if she has written about YOUR life, even if the circumstances of your life and the circumstances of the characters in her book hardly match up at all.
After a runaway marriage, a young couple faces hardship during their first year of marriage as one studies to become a lawyer and the other begins a career in writing. Set in 1927, this autobiographical novel is clear-eyed about its all-too-human characters, but ultimately hopeful.
Turkce de " genc kiz sevgisi" adi altinda sahaflardan bulmak mumkun .Yazarin diger eserini okuyanlar bunu daha cok sevecekler.
Betty Smith, author of A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, wrote another wonderful book, and I had no idea until last week.
Annie, from Brooklyn, marries Carl and moves to the Midwestern university where Carl is a law student.
Although she doesn't know how wonderful she it, Carl does.
My only criticism is that Smith could have actually ended the book a little bit sooner.
Although she clearly sets up the future of this Annie and Carl, the reader has already come to know that this little family is going to be just fine.
A book written in the early 60s about a young married couple in the 20s struggling to make ends meet while the husband finishes law school and the wife has some early success as an aspiring writer.
I loved hearing about the details of their various struggles such as not knowing where the next meal was coming from,and the way that Annie, the main character drank up life through the everyday people she came in contact with and through her thirsting for knowledge by sitting in on classes and attempting to rewrite War and Peace.
Even though she was so young and uneducated, she was always looking for ways to learn.
A nice little romance, it is the story of the first year in the marriage of a couple in 1927.
The two married against the wishes of their families.
He is a law student and she is quite young (she is eighteen, just of age to marry, and he is twenty)but she has already been working for four years.
It tells of their difficulties (he in working several jobs while juggling classes, and she of her trouble in finding a job in her new setting).
It seems that Betty Smith's own early married life closely matched that of her protagonists.
Betty Smith is my writing queen.
Such a fabulous book - Smith tells a simple, believable story.
The book is a story of a young married couple who struggles with finances (is there any other kind?) living in the American Midwest during the late 1920s.
Carl is a young man of twenty training to be a lawyer, and Annie is his eighteen year old bride.
Like all of Smith's books, the story doesn't have much of a concrete plot - it flows along gently with the seasons.
The book takes everyday occurrences, like buying an alarm clock or writing a paper and turns it into something magical.
It's the story of a young marriage in its first year, and yes, while there are 'problems', they don't take over like they might in books written today.
Anyway, what shines through in this portrayal of Carl and Annie's life together is the LOVE they have for each other, and that they always find their way back to, no matter how difficult their circumstances.
I propose that every young couple read this book before they marry, and if they cannot admit in their heart-of-hearts their love for each other is just as grounded and vivid as Carl and Annie's, that they consider calling the whole thing off.
While not quite as consistently moving as A Tree Grows In Brooklyn, this was filled with more of Smith's simple and clear language that (and I am paraphrasing Annie Brown from this book) makes the inarticulate articulate.Smith writes with emotions and her characters feel real. Following the marriage of Carl and Annie Brown over a couple years in the late twenties, and all the trials and fights and new friends and hardships they face together is really fantastic slice-of-life stuff.
After reading a friend's review, I realized this book had not made it onto my list, even though it's an old favorite. I own it, and have read it several times over the years. In my early readings, this book provided a revelation into a time period and setting (college in the 1920s, I believe) I knew nothing about. Great book, with much wisdom.
Susann was right!!! This is a wonderful book!This intimate picture of a young marriage allows one to peek into the heart of Annie who left Brooklyn to marry Carl at the Midwestern university where Carl is in law school. Annie has a kind, sensitive, good heart and it fills the pages with her gentle and enthusiastic perspective on people and life. Oh how I wish there was a sequel!
I put this in my personal favorites because as a teen and young woman I LOVED this book and resd it over, and over and over. I bought this edition a few years ago and tried to re-read it...and couldn't finish it. Sometimes growing up sucks.
So good! I tore right through it. I wish their were sequels so I could keep up with their lives. In the first chapter they get married and it's a little suggestive. I was worried that the book might be a little racy, but it wasn't.
The first year in the life of a newlywed couple between the wars. By the author of A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, and just as good.
Like many who have reviewed Joy in the Morning before me, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is my favorite book, and it took me a while to finally read Joy in the Morning because I was worried about the possibility of being disappointed.
While both ATGiB and JitM each rightfully deserve to stand on their own, it was fun to point out the similarities between the two.
Once I started reading and really diving into JitM, I had a hard time putting it down.
Throughout the book, I hoped for things to get better for Carl and Annie along with everyone around them who treated them so kindly.
