https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88389.The_Discovery_of_Heaven
Maar mocht die stapel papier veroorzaakt zijn door een andere schrijver dan Mulisch in een ander taalgebied dat het onze, er zou niets meer van overblijven.Gekunsteld, hoogdravend, houterig, breedsprakerig, betweterig, Magnum Opus my ass.
Kijk eens hoe eclectisch mijn kennis!Mulisch denkt zich duidelijk zowel thuis te voelen in gevoelens en persoonlijkheden als in wetenschap en filosofie, maar helaas: in het lichtere werk (het begin van “het begin van het begin”) klinkt alles gekunsteld en geforceerd, in de wetenschap laat hij steken vallen (met de discos van Phaistos als voorbeeld), in de grote ideeën is hij ondraaglijk hoogdravend, en op het einde van het boek weet de lezer niets meer over de personages dan in het begin.Niet dat het die lezer dan nog wat kan schelen, want alvast mijn interesse was hij al lang voor het einde kwijt.Afrader.
I'm all for weaving large swaths of religious, political, and musical knowledge into a narrative, but it has to be done in a compelling way - see Foucalt's Pendulum as a great example - but the story here is so slow and pointless that it actually hurts my head just to think about.Max and Onno's friendship was fun for the first few hundred pages before really strange circumstances forced them into peculiar familial roles, and while I'm ambivalent about Onno (his inflated self-ego is oftentimes annoying but has its endearing moments), I absolutely loved the character of Max. But again, the horrendously uninteresting narrative gives him nothing to do, and after he's unceremoniously removed from the story 3/4 of the way through, there's literally nothing left in the novel that makes it worth slogging through.
An ambitious book.
So the main characters are all polymaths, well-read but otherwise shallow, symbols really.
Oh, there are females characters, but they conceive and then get felled by a lightning-struck tree; or they sneak in a younger man's bedroom and then leave in the morning without speaking.
And then there's the whole Ryder Cup thing).This book had more than a few wonderful moments.
Raiders of the Lost Ark but without the whip and the snakes.
The whip and the snakes were the best part.
I have not read this im sorry I didn't mean to rate this help
There’s no angelic commentary or even the remotest hint of an angelic perspective in the narrative, so essentially the frame story completely falls away during these hundreds of pages long sections of human goings-on.
We get a brief interlude for the angels to check in at page 195, where they briefly digress about Francis Bacon, and then the next insertion of the frame story is on page 547, where they actually say the following:--I thought we were never going to get here.--I told you at the outset that the mission had been accomplished, hadn’t I?--It’s probably because of your compelling narrative.
It is not a book to be taken lightly as it requires time to be set aside for it.
You will need to want to be challenged as well as entertained before beginning this book.
Not because it was slow and boring, but because it often distracted me enough to put the book down in order to go wander around thinking about something that arose from the dialogue within.This is a beautiful tale of friendship and family delivered in the midst of ideas.
Ideas of an epic scale.
Despite the hubris of Mulisch in incorporating large swatches of his autobiography into the fabric of this literary counterpane, he uses those elements well to contribute to the coherent pattern of the work.
The book provides devastating criticisms of religion, politics, and the to-hell-in-a-handbasket trajectory of humanity.
The author adopts a gnostic worldview for the structure of the novel's argument, and those who are unfamiliar with the basics of gnosticism may be a bit confused, but it works rather well (even with the somewhat heavy-handed dialogues in heaven).
730 pages of time that I will never have back.Not only was the book pretentious, it was also poorly written.
Perhaps the translation is to blame, as I read it in English.
Whatever the source, the (English) text was choppy, un-inventive, repetitive, and cliché.
Mulisch's overuse of similes is nauseating.The dialogue was also suspect.
Instead of realistic, it seemed more the types of smart retort one thinks of only after an argument has concluded.I'm at a loss as to what other reviewers see in this book.
Hopefully it works better in the original Dutch.One Amazon reviewer put it best with: "Mulisch, pedant...
writes a book."
I briefly toyed with giving this two stars, given the degree of difficulty Mulisch takes on in this tome.
And there are the characters: Max is beautiful, broken, and relentlessly solipsistic; Anno is rich, carelessly amoral, and when his entitlement fails, he withdraws from the world like a spoiled child who whines that he is taking his ball and leaving when the game does not go his way; the women are one-dimensional and mute, contributing to the narrative primarily as sexual partners.
Worse, the purported theme of this overlong ramble is God's disaffection with his creation, and in the end amounts as well to taking his ball and leaving.
It's quasi-intellectualism probably speaks to many people who know a little about philosophy, history and art, but not too much.
They can hold Mulisch in awe all they want, but that doesn't change the fact that this book is actually much more shallow than people think it is.
Form and no content, show but no story, tricks by a mediocre author who thrives on the ignorance of the quasi-intellectual reader.Sorry to say it, but if you want to read a decent, intelligent book, turn to Hermans, Bordewijk, Nooteboom or Brouwers.
Not Mulisch.
Het leest veel vlotter dan verwacht, de vriendschap tussen Onno en Max vind ik heel mooi beschreven, geweldige dialogen vol kwinkslagen en doordenkers, maar ook hun houding naar de andere personages toe wordt goed uitgewerkt.
Ik heb zin gekregen om een cursus kunstgeschiedenis/architectuur te volgen om daarna op citytrip te gaan naar Venetië, Rome, Jeruzalem!Ja, Mulisch wil uitpakken met heel veel kennis, soms is het erover, maar het verhaal was bij momenten zeker spannend en meeslepend en ik wou echt weten hoe het verhaal verder ging evolueren.
naar het einde toe werd er toch teveel uitgesponnen en naar mijn gevoel zelfs veel herhaald.
Accordingly (and this only really emerges in the later stages) God has decided to remove the 10 Commandments from earth and take them back to heaven and then leave earth to its own devices.Max/Onno have a remarkable friendship – they seem to believe they are “super-men” and spark each other in many forms of religious/political/moral/philosophical musings, including a trip to Cuba to watch Ada play in a cultural programme where they accidentally become delegates at a international subversive/terrorist conference (this conference eventually costs Onno his place in a coalition government years later as well as being where Quentin is conceived).The part where Quentin grows up with Max/Sophia in an eclectic mix of characters in a set of flats built into an old castle is the hardest to follow and least enjoyable – I found it hard to differentiate the characters or understand the many artistic musings.
Goed: driehoek/vierkant Max-Onno-Ada-Sophia, een aantal van de psychologische / filosofische gesprekken (vooral dan die over het zijn/niet zijn), het aanwakkeren van mijn goesting om nog wat extra gebouwen in Rome te gaan bezoeken.Niet goed: iets teveel name-dropping (ok ja, het kan interessant om vb.
die discus van Phaistos te vermelden voor mensen die die niet kennen, maar leg het dan uit en doe er iets mee i.p.v. het gewoon x keer te vermelden), teveel deus ex machina momenten.Dubbel gevoel: het einde.
(hide spoiler)] En eerlijk, bij wat omschreven wordt als een "magnum opus" van een schrijver, had ik dat toch wel verwacht ja.
Wat deze stof precies behelst, zal ik hier niet noemen.Wel kan ik de lezer van dit tekstje vertellen dat het een werkelijk breinboek is.
We hebben hier te maken met een verhaal waar ideeën vooraan staan en de karakters die ze dragen ondergeschikt zijn aan het Goddelijke plan; dat wordt wel duidelijk in het narratief.
Geen echte mensen - Quinten is zelfs vrij expliciet een engel waar nog weinig menselijks aan te vinden is.Over het narratief gesproken, daar wou ik nog wel even van melden dat ik dat kunstig vind gedaan.
A highlight of Dutch literature, but a bit uneven in quality.
The first 400 pages are sublime, especially in the drawing of the love triangle Onno-Ada-Max. Every page is a gem, and the situation sketches sometimes are very ingenious.
But then the story falters: starting with the comatose state of Ada the suspense slips; the Bildungsroman that follows is quite readable, but the boring detective story with which the novel ends, is an anti climax.
Just like Hugo Claus (the king of Flemish literature), Mulisch (the king of literature in the Netherlands) seems to lapse into automatisms: often pedanticly boasting with his knowledge and insights; and inserting personal experiences in a too obvious way.Nevertheless: absolutely worth reading!
Het boek is nu voor mij veel rijker dan de eerste keer, misschien omdat ik inmiddels een hele kilo Mulisch gelezen heb en hem dus beter snap.
En Quinten - in feite de zoon van Max en Onno, hoe paradoxaal dat ook lijken moge- is weer een aanstekelijk (vervormd) portret van de 17-jarige enthousiasteling die Mulisch tot zijn dood is gebleven: de briljante jongeling die op eigen wijze zijn weg zoek in kunst, filosofie, wetenschap en het occulte en die met jongensachtige onbevangenheid het onmogelijke najaagt.
Side-by-side with this cosmic drama is a very intimate tale of male friendship and the involvement of both of these men, Onno and Max, with an attractive woman named Ada. So successful is Mulisch's portrayal of these characters, at least for this reader, that I actually found myself awake in the middle of the night worrying about them!
The novel is also filled with a wealth of themes and ideas, with the result that a few readers have criticized it for being "too intellectual." Normally I tire of egghead digressions, but for some reason I found most of these fascinating and stimulating.
5 sterren.In eerste instantie voelde ik een soort opluchting dat het leesbaarder was dan ik had gedacht (waardoor ik het boek een paar jaar geleden al na een paar bladzijden weglegde en afdeed als 'te moeilijk' of 'niet mijn ding'.) Dit keer duurde het ook even voordat ik eraan gewend was, maar vervolgens las het als een trein, vooral de eerste paar honderd bladzijden.
Ik kan 'De ontdekking van de hemel' enerzijds wel waarderen om wat het is als geheel, en voor de bizarre en onverwachte leesmomenten, anderzijds denk ik dat ik moet accepteren dat het niet helemaal mijn ding is, maar dat dat ook best handig is om te weten!
Ask a Dutch classmate for a book recommendation and this is what you get (in a sample of three independently solicited opinions, this was the result in all three cases).
So we know that there is a degree of unanimity among the Dutch when it comes to the books one should have read.I have a harder time believing that my each of my three classmates had actually read this book when they made the recommendation.
It's not terrible so far, but it is a bit heavy-handed.
Kind of a Dutch version of Iris Murdoch, except that Dame Iris wasn't nearly as verbose as Harry Mulisch.
Wonderfully philosophical. Probing and intelligent, this novel is difficult to be categorised to a specific genre... none seem to be able to adequately contain this novel. We travel from Amsterdam to Cuba, from the 60s to the 90s and from Atheism to Roman Catholicism to Judaism, via Palladio! It's a massive read and kept me busy for a long time - not helped by the fact that life got in the way... Read this book and prepare to live a little.
What a story!What i fell in love with immediately: the writing style, the beautiful words i didn't know yet and learned by looking them up, the wonderfully and creatively crafted sentences that described certain feelings, thoughts or situations that moved by heart and mind simultaneously, the interesting scientific and historical information that is abundantly sprinkled throughout the whole book, the friendship between Max and Onno, Quinten's otherworldliness..Still, if i would go back in time to when i was reading the first half of this book, i would be surprised if my future me would tell me i would end up giving it as many as 5 stars.
This novel does very well in the first three parts to entertain, inform, and dazzle with lucid details and lively dialogue, then fantastically derails in part four.
The character of Quinten Quist (completely uninteresting precisely because he is so exaggerated and supernatural) hijacks the novel, steering it into a mess of biblical cryptography and architectural fetishism.
Nevertheless, I am very glad I read the novel, especially for the insights into Dutch society in the sixties, the students' revolt, and the legacy of the Holocaust in the Netherlands.
I'll be the first to admit that I didn't understand a lot of the metaphysical aspects of this book.
It was recommended to me by a dutch dude that was staying at the same campground in Italy as I was.
He said it was the most famous book in Holland.
From what I remember, it starts with the relationship between two friends as they vie for the same woman.
The woman gets pregnant by one man, and the other raises the child as his own.
Interesing...but after the last page I shut the book and said "WTF?"
Harry Mulisch, I could really care less about all the pretentious bull you think you know, the least you could have done is written and interesting story.
Mooi boek, met interessante gedachten en een goed idee, maar mijn god, wat vindt die Mulisch zichzelf geweldig.
Mulisch masterfully blends together philosophy, theology, and history in a narrative compelling both for its metaphysical and its human dimensions.Feel free to disagree with the following (I'm just spitting out some of the things I thought during and after).I get the impression that the book chronicles a conflict between modernity and postmodernity.
In the former instance, the frame narrative of two angels discussing the actions taken to retrieve the holy testimony—including but not limited to genetic manipulation spanning generations and direct interventions into human affairs—acts as a foil to the increasing atheism and skepticism of the secular world, particularly in the case of Max and Onno.
The characterisation, the humour, and the vast wealth of knowledge were an absolute joy for such a prolonged amount of time.
And then it turns into sodding Foucault's Pendulum.
A wonderful coverage of family lives over time, affected by the Second World War and the communist related political upheavals, the philosophy and the theory are balanced so well with the narrative until the end.
Then Max is hit by a sodding meteorite, Quenten finds his absent father almost straightaway in Rome, and the whole thing turns into a metaphysical quest, and it's pretty painful.
A big fat metaphysical mash-up by the Dutch author of The Assault. Mulisch builds his fantastic tale on the erotic and intellectual entanglements of a menage á trois, enriching the plot of an unabashed thriller with a dazzling array of speculation on everything from mathematics, physics and linguistics to theology and the machinations of the heavenly host.Next to its spectacular, soaring architecture, The Da Vinci Code is a mouse turd.
I didnt finish it....got about 100 pages in and just couldnt subject myself any longer.Maybe if I was smarter or more well read but it was just too damn tedious for this simple soul.Bring on Dostoyevsky, The Dalai Lama, how 'bout some Kant or Nietzsche?!?! Sorry Mr. Mulisch, too literary for me.
Dit boek. Onwijs en onwijs en onwijs en onwijs goed.
