https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197073.Sperm_Wars
What did you think of all the stories?''Um, some of them were quite good...''Yes, well, he does go on a bit though doesn't he, the randy old goat?
Thank goodness, I believe you are out of danger, but it was touch and go there for a moment.' 'Uh, Laura...' 'I know what you are going to say, and you are quite right.
yes, I think like this will be best.
yes, like that I think.
This is pm, right?' 'Mmm-mmm' 'Yes, let's sleep a little bit then.
Don't you think?' 'Mmm, yes, it is actually.
Ok, I have nothing against softcore porn.
This book crams the two together.
I want my science porn free.
I want my science to cite sources.
I want my science to be free of cultural agenda and bias.
Alas, Baker failed me thrice.
The porn that begins each chapter adds NOTHING to the topic at hand; not even detailed case studies, merely fictional filler designed to spice up his muddled work.
Baker fails on every level.
Do yourself a favor, pick up a 'Hustler' and a couple of real books on the subject of evolutionary biology.
Instead of just saying "trust me", I'd feel a lot better if he included a brief summary of the supporting data nearby.Most importantly, many of the connections he makes between evolutionary biology and conscious behavior seem a bit too speculative, based on a narrow-minded interpretation of human ethology.The most obvious example to me is the section where he states that men are averse to using condoms, and then goes about explaining why.
This is a fascinating text that is well worth reading with an OPEN MIND.There are conjectures made that seem to disgust some reviewers on this website.
The desire for what makes us human has developed over several millennia, whereas biological urges have controlled us for millions of years.
That we can read this book and disagree with the points raised is something we have only been capable of for a few hundred years.
Oh my gosh this is cuckold porn disguised as a biologists view of the social realities of reproduction.Even in his preface he admits there are many biologists who will view this book as a complete work of fiction, but the first time I read that did not have the same impact it had as when I was done.The entire book is comprised of "examples" he gives about sexuality, and he then explains his point of view on what "transpired" in his imagination, he explains they are not "real" situations, but are there for him to explain his point of view on the subject.After reading it and reflecting...
If he had just been more careful in explaining to the reader (which he explicitly shapes as the layman in his Preface) which assumptions to avoid making as he presents facts, this could have been a worthwhile publication.Add to this sin that he bypasses almost all discussion of the female's active role in conception, argues that one of the primary benefits of male bisexuality to the individual is that having multiple male partners of different character types will better prepare him to have multiple female partners of varying temperaments, and his weak chapters on homosexuality, rape, and prostitution...I do not recommend.One last word: one might argue that since this book was published 11 years ago, when it came on the scene it may have been fresh, exciting, and stimulated real thought.
This is the worst pseudo-scientific book I have read since The Naked Ape. It's hard to believe it can be called non-fiction.
The research seems opinion based and is not scientifically documented at all in the book.
There are no references or citations and the fictionalized case studies are nothing more than soft porn.
I wasn't surprised to find out that Dr. Baker has been completely discredited by his colleagues in evolutionary biology.
I wouldn't be surprised to find out that the basis for some of his theories are scientifically founded, but the presentation is ridiculous.
It would have been interesting except some basic research indicates that most of the premises upon which this book was written are total crap. Very much of the 'women are evil cows after our vital essence' ideology with some penis envy overtones presented as scientific fact. Totally ridiculous book to have been written in this century.
This is one of the most fascinating books I've read in the last few years.
Sure, if taken from a certain misandrous point of view the stories written by the author can be seen to be very damning towards women.
Humans like to have sex.
Humans quite often like to have sex with new people.
I'd just come off The Myth of Monogamy when I picked this book up.
All in all, this book actually helped me understand a great deal of why I work the way I work and with that has come a certain level of peace in my mind.

I was "cautiously" enjoying the first quarter of the book when I peeped in reviews here.
The one about the lack of proper references stung me.
I wrote several academic peer-reviewed papers and I absolutely cherish this tradition.
Thus upon reading the review I couldn't continue just flowing with the author.Here and there I started noticing passages and claims for which I'd rather see some sources and quotes of some serious studies behind these, now appearing spurious, claims.
I gave up the book.
You can't treat such a serious matter without some trustworthy sources and stats to lean upon.
Absolutely fascinating. I learned so much I don't know where to begin. Did you know that 99% of sperm's primary function is to do battle with other mens' sperm inside the woman, and that only 1% is capable of fertilization? The woman's orgasm is her way of helping the sperm of the man she prefers. 10% of children's real dad isn't the man who thinks he's the father. Just an amazing scientific work, well written, funny, and informative.
- Claims that the 'scenes' are science-based and based on reality, despite the fact that the only thing they're remotely similar to is a daytime soap opera (Days of Our Lives, As the World Turns, etc) or telenovela.- Conflation of infidelity with leaving an abusive relationship.- Assumption that, as soon as a woman leaves an abusive relationship, she moves in with the first bloke that'll 'take her' and 'deal with' her child(ren) until they finally have their own kids (which leads to the next point...)- Implication that all step-parents (particularly step-fathers) will harm their partner's children from previous relationships.- Lack of a nuanced conversation of abuse (but an insistence that it's normal because chimpanzees do it, as if we don't have thousands of years of human culture that we've been working through).- Transphobia (also a rape dream with a trans person that he refers to as a 'tranny', which is a double-problem because he's also implying all women get turned on by rape).- Constant biphobia and conflation of being bisexual with being promiscuous or a prostitute or both.
Firstly, the main controversy - I find the "soft porn" scenes as a tool to convince broader publicity; encourage more people to grab for a popular science book.
After a couple of those I realised that from the biological point of view they're all normal animal behaviour, not falling under human discountenance.
As for the main part: I was intrigued, surprised, shocked even.
I recommend it to everybody who wonders on ridiculousness of human sexuality.To sum up, Sperm Wars surely makes it case - stimulates (pun intended) for a deeper dive in the subject.
On the plus side, huge points for boldly, (if somewhat clumsily) exploring a new genre space, including titillating and episodes which behavior he then ties into the sperm wars.------------------------------------------------------Below, the very crude beginnings of my thoughts: not recommended reading as of yet.The metaphor of battle, complete with armies, strategy ambushes, and of course, maneuvers (!) is rife throughout the book.
The conscious person in contrast is very well informed, but would often deny the strategms in play or may even be in direct opposition to the goals of the sperm war, as in the case of selecting contraception.
This is where we lose our free will, for, if we act at odds with our overt goals and decisions, how are we (the conscious person) not the hapless rider?
Evolution of "whatever works," human behavior as strategies leaning towards better reproductive success.
Fertile females who are not receptive to sperm will have fewer babies!"A few other ideas turned out to be probably wrong, like the upsuck theory saying that female orgasms increase the likelihood of conception because orgasm contractions suck up sperm (probably untrue), or the idea that men masturbate to keep their sperm fresh and fertile when in fact older sperm is more mature and fertile.Evolutionary Psychology can make it look like all human behavior is somehow adaptive.
Still, when you apply the "reproductive success" model to human behavior, evo-psych wins every time.
It would be interesting to read an epigenetics version of this book: what happens in the brain when environmental conditions trigger the switching on or the switching off of various behavior-strategy genes..
First things first, I read this book with my girlfriend as a joke, after we saw that it was mentioned on the blog  We Hunted the Mammoth . Apparently, Sperm Wars is a sort of "Bible" for people in the so called "manosphere", and since we're having a lot of fun reading what these people write in their blogs and websites, we decided to read this book together and see what all the fuss is about.To put it simply, this book is bad. It's bad "erotica" mixed with a lot of pseudoscience and wild specula
Without that assumption, we are left with a series of sex scenes, most of them plainly boring and some rather ludicrous, and a bunch of pseudoscientific explanations.But not only the main hypothesis on which Sperm Wars is based is false, throughout the book there are quite a few other claims not supported by solid science.
Yet another example is the claim that the female orgasm is engineered by the woman's body in order to suit her reproductive strategy: if her body "thinks" it's better not to cum, there's nothing a man can do.

I don't usually enjoy books in the field of science, but this one was an exception, even though at times it was could be rather provocative and distasteful.
But wow, a lot is going on 'down there,' and it has a greater impact on our behavior than we would like to think.
It also provides reasonable explanations for seemingly strange behaviors (sexual and otherwise).
The book is presented in a series of 'scenes' which serve to build upon one another in order to introduce more complicated concepts.
The only real drawback of the book is that it could be rather redundant at times, rehashing the same concept over and over again in successive scenes.
Not really sure what the big deal is. There isn't anything here that isn't in any standard textbook on human sexuality (or at least nothing substantiated). I have trouble thinking of this as a 'science book'; not one footnote, no bibliography, only a back cover allusion to the author's many publications during a 16 year career as a university lecturer.
Good science book examining how evolution has shaped male and female humans into preserving good genes across generations. Most fascinating to me is knowing the complex machinery that is the female body and how it hides, obscures and deceives males and females alike, all with the main aim, eventually, of passing on the best genes to future generations.
Very Interesting. My only complaint that it gets hard to read the case studies as the book goes on, since they refer to previous cases by number only, and you have to remember that Case 34 was the one with the orgy (and so forth)
awesome book! Revolutionary thoughts. It will change your life and your marriage!
What DIDN'T I learn from this book?! If you want to find out why your body and your brain are often at odds, read read read this book.
High handed, biased, out of date; I forgot what the 90s were like until I read the line, "Most readers of this book will be exclusively heterosexual." p 282
Intéressant pour avoir des pistes de réflexions pour celles et ceux qui cherchent à avoir des enfants - ou au contraire ne pas en avoir ! (bien que ce ne soit pas l'objectif premier de ce livre hein)
One of the most disturbing and upsetting books I have ever read... In saying this, it opened up my eyes and reinforced why eventually I would become a MGTOW!So, ultimately it has taught me to embrace my destiny!
The rest exhibit complex features that apparently exist to block or kill the sperm of other males inside the same woman's body.Under what behaviors and reproductive strategies did humans evolve to developer sperm like this?
However, there aren't many references to actual scientific evidence that the author is using.
There are a few mentions of small studies done in Britain but no actual footnotes to the studies (that I could find).At its very best, this book is a collection of thought provoking erotic stories based on what seem to be mostly logical ideas.
So before I hit page 100, I skipped all the scenes and had no problem understanding what the author was talking about after each scene.I recommend to skip the scenes; they are extraneous - enjoyable, perhaps, but extraneous.
Originally, Baker, working with another scientist, published all of the same information in another book called Human Sperm Competition, which was a highly acedemic and dry read.
Wanting to make the info more accessible to the layman, Baker wrote Sperm Wars and decided to avoide citations, stats and graphs, choosing instead to discuss the info more conversationally, directing interested readers to his other work should they want the actual numbers and research techniques.
Overall, however, it was quite informative and generally well-written, and the academic version costs well over $100, making Sperm Wars the more reasonable reading choice for those interested in the subject.
