https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68520.The_Winter_King
4.5/5 StarsDepending on the rest of the trilogy, this could be the most original and the best Arthurian legend retelling of all time, out of all medium.A little background before I start my review; this is my first dive into Bernard Cornwell’s work and only my second time reading a historical fiction, so this is totally out of my comfort read but I’m delighted with my decision to go out of my usual read.
I’ve heard of the name Bernard Cornwell several times until now, all pretty much claimed he’s a legend in ‘Historical Fiction’ genre but nothing ever truly pushed me into starting his books until last March when I finished binge reading the entire ‘The Faithful and the Fallen’ series.
It is just very fun to read.Who would I recommend this book to?If you loved The  Lord of the Rings but the smallest part of you that doesn't care about poetry kind of wished it had a little more action .
Many of the characters believe in magic and things happen which might be interpreted as such but they might also be explained by realistic means.It portrays Arthur as a warlord in around 500 AD right after the Romans abandoned their foothold in the British Isles and right before the Anglo-Saxon invasion turned the Celtic land of Britain into Angl-land (England).
Here, Arthur’s tale is told by Brother Derfel, an aging monk who wasn’t always a Christian.
And trying to reconcile Derfel himself, the aging Christian monk and the young pagan warrior, is actually one of my favorite aspects of the novel.
How radically people can change always intrigues me.There were some people Cornwell portrayed here that were at complete odds with almost everything I’ve ever read or heard.
I don’t think I’ve ever read another book that contained this much spitting.
And if you just can’t get enough of battlefields, I think I found your new favorite book.I read this because Petrik loved the series so much.
This time Bernard Cornwell tells the story of Arthur, though not from the perspective of Arthur; he tells it from the point of view of one of his footman.
An interesting take on the Arthurian myth Derfel is a spearman in the service of Arthur and he narrates Arthur’s story.
In his version Lancelot is a fraud and Guinevere is quite possibly a complete whore who entrapped Arthur for power, not love; thus, this is far from the usual fairy tale.
This gives the novel a more realistic setting, a more historical setting, rather than the usual fantastical nature of tales surrounding Arthur Pendragon.
This is my favorite Cornwell series (it's Cornwell's too), for it covers my favorite historical era--that mysterious gap in between the Roman departure and the Saxon Invasion.
This retelling of Arthur works so well because it's divorced from Mallory.
I love BC's ability to pull me into the muddy, primitive Dark Age Britain world.
He's one of the very best at avoiding anachronisms, a skill which gets so little praise.
None of his characters feel like modernistic men and women dressed up in 5th Century garb.
The world is vast and mysterious.
Highly suggest this series, as well as most of BC's work.
Primeira leitura: 2008Releitura: 02/2016Acho que essa é uma leitura muito recomendada para os fãs de As Crônicas de Gelo e Fogo.
Acho q os fãs das lendas Arturianas talvez amem ou odeiem, pois esse é um retrato muito mais cru e humano de Artur.
Mas aqui toda a magia e romance medieval é substituído por um retrato muito mais provável do que realmente teria acontecido naquela época.
A leitura é muito fluida e Derfel é um narrador que vc facilmente se apega.
As batalhas são de roer todas as unhas e os cenários pulam da página.
The horn sounded a third time, and suddenly I knew I would live, and I was weeping for joy and all our spearmen were half crying and half shouting and the earth was shuddering with the hooves of those Godlike men who were riding to our rescue.For Arthur, at last, had come.Dun-da-da-da!Presenting a saga so epic it needs three pages to list the characters, two pages to mention the places and another two pages of maps!
The food would get cold while everyone passed the dishes to everyone else."Happily, there are two more books in the Arthur series.Cornwell, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
The framing device, with Derfal now an old monk telling his story, created some extremely poignant moments.Arthur is extremely well-written, although his character sometimes feels too noble, especially given how bleak the rest of this world is.
For all of his saintliness (although saints in this book are often knobs Coughs* Sansum Coughs*) Arthur's vanity, ambition and occasional reckless idealism made him more than a 2-D representation of heroism and instead showed him to be a flawed, realistic character, making his struggles all the more powerful.
In the early stages of this book I found Owain (the old king's champion) to be a brilliantly written character, a complex villain and a great source of conflict.
Firstly I'd like to thank Craig for an awesome first buddy read and for putting up with me in general.
I think 3 stars adequately represents my overall enjoyment of the book.
I liked the story, loved the writing.
But found it hard to stay motivated and difficult to read at times.
Overall I think part of my lack of interest came from the book hangover that Assassins Fate by Robin Hobb has left me in.
I can see why so many people think this is a 5 star read.
So I'll try another Cornwell book instead.
Not oft, actually hardly ever, do I read a second series by an author set in a diffo historical period for fear of more of the same but jus a diffo setting (its happened with others) but here I am giving Bernard Cornwell a go with his Arthurian saga – Its only a short series & having heard many good things, I’m intending to bang the lot of in one go (3 books) to complete my Summer read.It’s also one of my favourite legends so I hope he does it justice!The story begins with a scribe (Derfel) at a desk who is writing the story of Arthur, the Warlord who should have been King so it goes...........
This is a mix of legend and History, and, King Arthur will probably always be that way since there's so much info. missing. In this tale the focus is open the original Britons fighting the influx/invasion of Saxons and dealing with the petty British kingdoms. All want to rule and there are a number of very detailed and well-written battles. First person POV.  The typical cast isn't what it appears to be. For instance, Lancelot is a coward and villain whose bards paint him differently. The interp
In this tale the focus is open the original Britons fighting the influx/invasion of Saxons and dealing with the petty British kingdoms.
All want to rule and there are a number of very detailed and well-written battles.
First person POV.
The typical cast isn't what it appears to be.
The interpersonal relationships are marvelous.
Enjoy!STORY/PLOTTING: B plus to A minus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: A minus to A; ACTION SCENES: B plus to A minus; HISTORICAL FOCUSES/ACCURACY: B plus; OVERALL GRADE: B plus to A minus; WHEN READ: 2005 (read three times) (revised review 1/4/13)
A different take on the tales of Camelot and Arthur.
I enjoyed this darker version which made me think Lancelot or some relative of his must have pissed in one of Cornwell's relative's Cheerios once upon a time.
I was wanting more Merlin during the entirety of the book.
My one major issue with the book was that it was written from a past perspective from one of the characters.
I think the major difference is Uhtred's voice is one of passion, motivation and scorn.
I'm not saying that was the case for the entirety of the book for major sections it was.
TWK   is easy 5 stars for bringing this oft-told tale to us in a completely new (and I do mean new) way. WARNING! Do Not read this book if you like your Arthur legend gauzy, frilly, magicky and cheesy. All previous Arthurian tales pale in comparison to Mr. Cornwell’s version. All of the usual suspects are present here but you will not see many of them portrayed in the standard ways. You will also meet a host of new companions and enemies. It is safe to say that you will never look at Lancelot, G
Mordred is despicable in a way that makes sense.This first book in the trilogy introduces Arthur as he tries to stop the Britons fighting each other and unite them to oppose the invading Saxons.
You will meet and follow Derfel, who tells the tale long after it occurred, and he is a central and appealing character.What sets this story apart is Cornwell’s attempt to show a realistic portrayal of what a Welsh Arthur would have been like.
It isn’t pretty but Cornwell’s story is so rich and pungent, I found myself caring for these characters like few others I have ever read.
These are the tales of Arthur, the Warlord, the King that Never Was, the Enemy of God and…the best man I ever knew.  What I loved about reading this tale for the first time is that I had no expectations. Of course, I did have a little knowledge of Arthur, but nothing that would give me an impression of who he should be. I knew he was a king and possibly a Christian (not in this version). And I had also heard of Galahad, Lancelot, Merlin and Camelot, but basically, this was all new to me.Derfel
These are the tales of Arthur, the Warlord, the King that Never Was, the Enemy of God and…the best man I ever knew.
And I had also heard of Galahad, Lancelot, Merlin and Camelot, but basically, this was all new to me.Derfel writes from a monastery at the request of Queen Ingrain who is infatuated with the exploits of Arthur, famed warrior and protector of Dumnonia.
Things are portrayed as they were, with warriors wearing light armor to be more agile, Saxons wearing simple and crude armor (I absolutely praise the lack of impractical yet fancy demon-horned helmets), druids spiking their hair with dung, the lack of actual magic, and much more humanized characters.The narrator, Derfel Cadarn, is old and feeble, retelling Arthur's story to the current young queen Igraine.
(Lust?) And so the ultimate war begins, facing enemies on all sides- Franks fighting Armorica on the south (a kingdom Arthur had sworn to protect), Irish Blackshields and Kernow on the west, Siluria and Powys on the north, and Saxons on the East.
This depth extends to most of the rest of the characters.One of the things I really liked about the Saxon books is the sketchy, creepy magic-related stuff (I'm thinking of scenes particularly in, uh...I think Lords of the North and Death of Kings) and this is even more brilliantly realized in this book.
The Isle of the Dead, the Druids, all of the weird pagan rituals...good stuff.This book was just so full of memorable scenes, characters, locations...it really seems like Cornwell was really inspired when he wrote this one.
until now.The Winter King by Bernard Cornwell is not a story about Arthur Pendragon who pulls a sword from a stone and becomes the perfect ruler with his sidekick Merlin.
The story feels historic, realistic, gritty and brilliant.
I admit that I went into this book knowing nothing (it’s my chosen method of reading), so I was quite surprised by the level of importance religion played in this story.
The discussion of Christianity feels like the most important fact to take away from this novel.
As a result, even though this is a 'fantasy' series, it feels more like historical fiction.
Hands down the best King Arthur fiction ever written.
"The Winter King" begins Bernard Cornwell's trilogy of Arthur, the king who may have lived in early Britain, driven back the invading Saxons, and inspired a legend.
Interestingly enough, Arthur is not the central hero of the book - that role falls to Derfel, a Saxon boy who escapes a Druid death pit to be raised by Britons and eventually become Arthur's right-hand man.
Derfel will grow up, become a warrior, fall in love a few times, and eventually stand at Arthur's side in a cataclysmic war that begins when Arthur spurns a princess to marry a penniless beauty named Guinevere.
Simply one of the best historical fiction reads out there. A unique retelling of the Arthur legend as it may have really happened. Arthur is a Celtic warlord in a post-roman Britain. Merlin is a druid, but his magic is more of he slight of hand variety. The story takes place against a ripe backdrop of change - Romano-Celts versus invading Saxons and Angles and the new Christian God against the Old Gods. Great stuff. Highly recommended.
Yeah, that one: Arthur, Merlin, Uther Pendragon, Guinevere, Morgan, Mordred, Lancelot, Galahad — the whole cast, as far as I know (well, Morgause appears to be missing).I haven’t read any of the others Arthurian books, so I can’t comment on any linkages between this and the agglomeration of other tellings.
In the end, he locates his story in the part of Britain he loves best.The Wikipedia page on King Arthur tells us he was possibly a real human being around the early sixth century.
All the old names are here, but often in much different forms than expected.This tale is told by one of Arthur's warriors, Derfel.
In his old age, Derfel has become a monk.
While maintaining a degree of the larger-than-life qualities we come to expect of this character, Cornwell makes him human.
Gives him flaws.
Derfel sees his flaws and his loyalty does not waver.
This is probably the most "real" I've seen an Arthurian story done, due to the way Cornwell handles his characters.
Some go both ways.
But they all have a human element that gives them authenticity.
This book was recommended to me by a friend, another friend and, well, several friends. I’m a fan of Bernard Cornwell and that’s a fact. One of my favorite series is his medieval Grail Quest series, which follows an English archer during The Hundred Years War. It’s fantastic. I love it (and highly recommend it). Surely, then, I would love The Winter King – Arthurian legend by Cornwell, for crying out loud! Well, read on and find out…Read the rest of my review here.
From the start you've learnt more characters names in the first few pages than most series will have in their entire run only for the majority of these to be killed off before you've remembered who they are!
Luckily, things steadied after a while and you had a core group and things became more focused and the story was able to really progress.I guess the story of King Arthur and Merlin and his knights is quite well know but the more I read the more I realised I knew very little actually other than the sword and a few of the knights names which made for a more entertaining read as I had no idea who would do what or who would meet a grisly doom.Cornwell has a tendency to stick in massive descriptive passages which I personally struggled with at times.
Can't lay a finger on it but I know i've never read anything quite like this.
I got used to the narrative, developed a strong attachment to the characters, villains and all, and had a ton of fun reading Derfel's tale.Now I've read a lot of grimdark books, I thought I had seen it all but Cornwell laughed and said "Come child, behold: The Isle of the Dead".
Even for an old timer like me this was unrelentingly gritty.
But these were dark days, when the threat of war forever loomed on the horizon and peace seemed as fragile as sand slipping through grasping fingers.
The character development of Derfel Cardarn was great.
This was a good but exhausting book.The tale of King Arthur, expect he's no king, Avalon and Camelot and all that aren't quite what you expect, Merlin isn't quite what you expect, Guenevere isn't quite what you expect, and nothing really is the gushy, soft tale you get from a Christianity-veiled Holy Grail Arthurian mythology.Instead, we have small, colorful bands of warriors, breakdancing druids who spit a lot, tiny fiefs that call themselves kingdoms but fight among themselves, the Saxon threat, despair, hardship, brutal life.
Derfel, who was one of Merlin's Tor and who became most trusted, brother-like to Arthur and Gallahad and many such good men, now is a follower of Christianity.He is one of the last of people left who remember King Arthur, other than the Saint who's Bishop of the Church he's sworn to stay in- Sansum.
From here, strts Derfel's journey to Knighthood and an Amazing story about how the Kingdoms fought, enemies, friends, love, craze,war, Arthur, Merlin, Nimue, Guinevere, Lancelot, Galahad, etc.I loved this book and his writing!Who will love this?
3.5 STARSI have 2 reasons for not giving this book 4 stars. Firstly, this novel was quite slow at places and I know that Mr. Cornwell can do better. Much better. Secondly, narrator lacked the charisma of true hero and it took me almost whole book to bond with him.Fortunatelly everything got better in last 20% and I already look forward to continuing with this series!
Um homem lutava por seu senhor, enfrentava o inimigo e nunca fugia."Em meio às dificuldades impostas pelo destino, nosso protagonista encontra vários guerreiros que serão seus leais companheiros ao longo da sua jornada, assim como traidores da pior espécie possível e diversas mulheres que fazem o seu coração bater mais forte.
Essas partes de romance são bem distribuídas ao longo de todo o livro e aparecem nos momentos certos, pois as batalhas são o ponto forte dos livros do Bernard Cornwell e nada deve deixá-las em segundo plano.Há outra coisa que eu devo ressaltar antes de finalizar essa resenha: a descrição das paredes de escudos é simplesmente espetacular.
All the major characters are fully and vividly drawn, making this a fast-paced and exciting romp through 5th century Britain while keeping the reader invested in the outcomes and stories.The story is told from the POV of Derfel (who I found is a lesser known knight of Arthur), living at a monastery during old age he decides to write down his story to set the record straight.
*Please don’t label ME an Enemy of God for only rating this 3 stars.I’ve been a fan of Bernard Cornwell for some time now and believe him to be one of the best historical fiction writers out there.
For me this is another case that Goodreads really needs half star ratings.
In the end I felt more comfortable with a 3 star, but I also feel confident that the next books in the series will get better as the story progresses.
