https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50051.The_Last_Picture_Show
An American idyll infused with sex & adolescent (as well as much adult) longing.
I adored every single page of this fast-moving, microsociety-under-a-lens type story which depicts the sexual and schoolboy escapades of two friends in a small Texas town.
This is the last time things will be like this, therefore the adjective "Last" in the title.
It is exquisite & very fun to get through.
This is on the cusp of modernity, at the stirrings of current globalization: The Story of the Death of The Small American Town.
Lois' idea of a suitable boy is Lester Marlow, a citified geek who succeeds in luring Jacy away from a dance at the American Legion Hall to a pool party in Wichita Falls, where the rich kids attend naked.Jacy and Lester had not been gone from the dance ten minutes before word got around that they were going to a swimming party where everyone would be naked.
Sonny, Duane, and Jacy come of age in a dusty Texas town.
While I never read it before, it fit like a favorite t-shirt.Larry McMurty paints a vivid picture of small town life as Sonny and the rest graduate high school and struggle to find their places in the world.
The Last Picture Show feels a lot like the coming of age stories Lansdale has been writing the last twenty years or so, only with less cursing.There were tons of quotable lines.
As their last year of school plays out, Sonny is often disinterested and bored with the predictable routines of the people he’s known his whole life, but he begins to learn that many of them have depths he never suspected.McMurtry does an excellent job of immersing the reader in the kind of ennui that can come with living in a small town where it seems that nothing ever happens, and the occasional shocking event is smoothed over by the soothing blanket of the mundane.
I’ve read the sequel Texasville before, but it’s been a while and I think I generally liked it.
Thalia is a decaying, dusty Texas town in with little to offer teenagers Sonny, Duane, and Jacy.
They are looking for love, experimenting with sex, drinking booze, and wanting more than the town of Thalia can give them.
This coming-of-age novel, set in the 1950s, is populated with eccentric small town characters that hang out at the poolhall, the all-night cafe, and the picture show.
When the theater closes, it's one more reason to want to escape this dying town.
Larry McMurtry does add some humor as he writes a good portrayal of lonely, unfulfilled people in this fading rural area.
Unlike some period pieces set in the 50's or 60's, this book comes across as totally honest and authentic. THE LAST PICTURE SHOW is full of real characters living out the highs and lows in a small Texas town. I loved this book, and the film version was well done too.
Yes, this book was a spotlight on a small town in Texas in the mid 1950's.
Yes, there were some great characters, good and bad.
There were some adults in the town who cared enough to listen and try to help.But the overriding theme of this novel is the hopelessness and loneliness of life.
Sex and booze helped momentarily, but eventually just made things worse.I appreciated Larry McMurtry's writing, but in the end, I just could not connect with these characters.
There was very little happiness, good luck, or good sense within this town.
It was bleak and depressing, with little redemption for anyone.
There's elements of nostalgia in the book, as clearly some good things are being lost, but the nostalgia is not the sugary kind.
One of the reasons I read McMurtry's books now and then is for the lack of pretense and style in his narrations, which doesn't mean he doesn't work hard at it.
In a lot of books there is a separation between the narrator and the author but in this book the separation is not there, or if it is, the gap is very small.
Jacy's family is rich, Duane is poor.
Jacy's parents don't like Duane, blah blah blah.
Well, at first, I was rooting for Duane, the poor kid who landed the rich girl who doesn't care that he's poor.
So, how can I go on rooting for Duane to have sex with Jacy when he has put his dick in a cow.
This ins't the only thing I read in the book that grossed me out, but I won't go into the rest of it.All I can say is that I can't enjoy a book if I don't identify with or at least partially like a character.
Almost all the people in this book are fucked up.
One obvious issue no one else has mentioned is the irony that this book was written long before the LONESOME DOVE novels, yet it deals with the Texas that rangers Call and McRae sacrificed so much to create.
One of the themes of LONESEOME DOVE is Gus asking plaintively, "was it worth it?"And of course, the answer is contained in this book.
Because these characters are living such stunted, joyless lives that it seems very hard to believe that the buffalo, the Comanche, and the Mexicans all had to be sacrificed to make way for the town of Thalia.
And none of that makes the book itself any less poignant.
Four stars, because I think three is too little, but four is too many.
I'd like to give this one three and a half stars please.
Generally everything was very nice in this book (if a book that reads like a car crash can be said to be nice), and I found myself pretty engaged in the story, but there was something about the book that made me think, yeah I kinda read this one before, maybe not set in a high school football loving Texas town, but still something that I've read before in a similar but different way.
I wasn't sure about this at first; it seemed a pretty shallow account of life in small town America.
The characters became more rounded, and the description of their lives and the small town they lived in was honest but poignant.
I read this, because I had seen the film (I thought so anyway, now I'm not sure about that).
I first read "The Last Picture Show" when I was around the same age as the three main characters, Sonny, Duane, and Jacy, and the novel had a powerful effect on me.
Ruth is, perhaps, the most dynamic of the characters in "The Last Picture Show." But it's a testament to McMurtry's gifts as a writer that I can read his novel at different points in my life and come away with something new each time.
It might be a dying town, but the only real inference to that is the literal title, besides all the characters being all washed up, too, so it's actually a town that's already dead, and it sure feels like it, but without any artistry involved.
Maybe I'm too old for this teenage coming of age tale, but there are characters of all ages, who are also washed up and hung out to dry, and not really very interesting as presented, even though relatable to some degree.
Maybe this is too real, maybe I don't like reality, maybe I'm spoiled not only by better novels, but by movies and television too?
Per tutta la prima metà del libro non succede quasi niente.Individui sperduti in una cittadina sperd
Julie says this should be my next McMurtry and who am I to argue?
Meanwhile, much of the story takes place in the bitter cold, colorless months of north Texas winter.A year passes, from one football season to the next, and during those twelve months, the central characters, Sonny and Duane, graduate from high school and have a number of adventures, as much as two single young men can have in a small rural community.
Of the very few in town who seem to feel something like full-hearted love, McMurtry only gives us glimpses and dwells instead on what is to be lamented in the rest of his characters' unlived lives.Like the R-rated movie, this is an R-rated book, with somewhat more graphic detail.
A sleepy, dusty old town filled with warm and wonderful characters. Frustrations of small town living are in every day and still the people move forward. Of the three main characters, Duane, Jacy & Sonny, I like Sonny the best. But the lives of all of these characters is poignant and warm as they find their way through their last year of high school and into the world. I look forward to continuing their stories in Texasville one day soon.
At the risk of pissing off many of the good people who use this site, I gotta say there are few critical statements that yank my chain more than "I didn't like/relate to any of the characters." I know people read for a myriad of reasons and no one way should be prized as "right" over another.
They weren't teenagers that I was like in any way but they were people I felt I knew.
Watching it again most recently at 27, I found myself drawn most to the stories of Ruth and Lois who both grapple with the disappointments of growing older, particularly those related to romance.
I was less than swept away by this book.
In fact, I didn't finish it, because I just couldn't stomach it.
I saw the movie years ago, but barely remember it.Edited April 20, 2010I wrote this review back in 2008.
Clearly I have pushed someone's button's by disliking what is a favorite book of theirs.
Like.
Like.
If you liked the book, fine.
That's why there are so many books out there, because we all have such different tastes, even from ourselves at different times of our life.Love,Norman Bates' mother.http://www.amazon.com/review/R2OV3HLV...
Most novels want to grow up to be this novel.
His prose struggles, not to impress but to communicate the lives of his characters.He also manages to address quite depressing material, from unhappy marriages to death, in a way that doesn't have us reaching for the razor blade.I suppose there is nothing particularly different about the book.
I feel Larry McMurtry couldn't quite find the right tone for the book, sometimes it seems like a sad novel that really shows the drudgery of this certain kind of life, like The Moviegoer.
Some of the characters are a little unbelievable too, like the football coach who gets pissed off when his wife starts to move and feel good while they're having sex.
That was kind of unbelievable as well, but then again, maybe Texas in the 1960s was a very different place.
As the book neared its end, I kept thinking, "Wow, what other shit can happen to these poor characters?" But more shit does indeed happen to them, right up till the end.
But sadly i didn’t enjoy this one, i could only manage to give it two stars, nothing more.To begin with the story was so dark, depressing and disgusting at times that i had to start a new light book just to come out of the gloomy world.
I must admit it started good but it could not hold my interest nor i cared for any character but still i could finish it all thanks to the writing which was the only thing which kept me going without leaving it half read.
I might try one or two more books by this author if nothing works then i don’t mind re-reading Lonesome Dove!
Pues parece que Wim Wenders se hubiese inspirado en este libro para hacer su hermosa película (que también está ubicada en Texas) Es un libro sobre personajes donde aparentemente sólo tienen extravagancias, pero en el fondo subyace mucho más.
Un libro desesperanzador en la gran mayoría de la parte, todos quieren salir del minusculo pueblo que es Thalia, pero irán descubriendo que allá también hay miseria y desencanto.
Me quedo con los personajes del joven Sonny, el encantador Billy (que se merece un libro sobre él solito) y el maravilloso Sam el León.
Definitely one of the more personally distubring books I've read, both for what occurs in it, and for how other readers react to it like it all makes perfectly realistic sense. My high school experience apparently was highly unusual in lacking constant bizarre sexuality, because I can't seem to relate to much of anything here. I read it very quickly, from a certain train-crash standpoint, but I don't really understand how this is "realistic" or insightful into adolescence. Maybe you need a small-town experience to understand this one.
Sure, it's depressing, but it's a great read. The movie (in black and white) is good, as it stays pretty close to the book, but the book is still better.
A coming of age story in a small town in West Texas in the early 1960's - I had not read any McMurtry for a very long time and I saw this in the library. I watched the Bogdanovich film more than 40 years ago with a very young Jeff Bridges as Duane but could not recall all the story. I loved this book, beautifully written, as the 3 main characters leave High School.
In addition, every scene in the novel coolly possesses rich detail: the deafening creak of bed-springs that afflicts both Ruth while she and Sonny have relations for the first time as well as when Sonny finds himself interlocked with a pregnant under aged prostitute—their common sense of guilt.
The novel begins with Sonny feeling like he is “the only creature in town,” in the beginning of his search for self as a human being and as a young man (5).
Find myself very excited to have begun a journey through Larry McMurtry's five-book series set in a small Texas town named Thalia, which is thought to be a fictional representation of the author's real life hometown, Archer City, located in North Central Texas, just south of Wichita Falls and just down the road from my new hometown of Quanah.
The Thalia Series begins with The Last Picture Show (1966); indeed, the series is often referred to by the title of its lead book, its lodestar.And what an experience re-reading The Last Picture Show has been.
