https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188148.Buried_Alive
Specifically, I wanted to know if Joplin ever recorded the song "The Rose." She didn't write it: it was written by Amanda McBroom in 1977.
I understand there is to be a feature-length documentary premiering in September 2015 entitled Janis that uses a voice-over by Cat Powers reading letters Janis wrote to friends and family, and concert footage.Myra Friedman was Joplin’s publicist, and as such was a person that knew her as well as anyone but perhaps did not have the writing skills to handle a significant and enduring biographical record.
Once the writer makes their place in the story clear, it is irresponsible for anyone consuming biographical works to assume otherwise.In Buried Alive, the raw ambivalence Friedman seems to feel about Janis is exactly what makes this biography remarkable and its refusal to betray the author's position within the social and cultural framework from which her friend operated is part of the work's overall integrity.
It is in the spaces of feeling and experience, interpretation and perspective, that both biographies and autobiographies accomplish what other historical accounts cannot (and, honestly, should not).Friendships and love are hardly ever felt in the "this or that" of binary philosophical relationship, as Friedman indicates, "Janis lit my life in innumerable ways for almost three years, as she dominated it too.
Meant to be a study of the biographer's emphasis of certain aspects of a pioneering woman’s life; but as a junior English major who was not very well read at all, I seriously couldn’t think of anyone.
That’ll work, and I’ll get to read about Janis.” And it is actually quite true – despite the fact that admittedly I was looking for something easy and interesting to read – that she was a pioneer in her field, the first woman rock star in a field dominated by men; and even by the criteria of the Femi-Nazi class (sorry...
but seriously...
From that point on, I was intrigued.The author knew a softer, gentler and more ambitious side to Janis than what is usually thought.
It is a shame Janis' letters are excluded, due to being denied permission from her estate, but it doesn't take away from the book.
Towards the end, I thought the author might be working up to accusations of suicide, but this is not the case.Yet, she does paint a very sad picture of the end of Janis' time.
Good work, Myra.RIP Janis Joplin.
Janis, my favourite artist of all time. Sooner or later, I had to read this.I didn't mind the first-person narrative. Myra Friedman had a unique insight into Janis's life, and decided to share it, lovingly and respectfully, with the world who in the 1970s was still wondering... and wonders to this day. One of the most powerful and depressing reads of my life. Freaky coincidences, heartbreaking words, and beautiful music.
Well, here's how:First of all, the book read more like a text book to me rather than a novel.
There was so much information ( a lot of it with little relevance) just thrown on the pages that it was almost chaotic to me.
Did I need to read the entire interviews of people that barely knew Janis?
Second, the book seemed to be more of a biography of the writer, Myra Friedman than of Janis Joplin.
I did get the entire story, but unfortunately, it took a lot of skimming through the Myra Friedman information to get it.
Of all the rockers who died young -- including Jimi Hendrix -- Janis Joplin has always been my favorite.
This biography of her, written by her publicist and close friend, says explicitly what we already know from Joplin's music: that she was a tortured soul who had many, many demons.
What's incredible with Joplin was that she was able to channel all that heartache to create something beautiful and lasting, which most people plagued by the self-doubts that she had are, obviously, are unable to do.
It was really sad to read about Joplin's formative years, and how poorly she was treated for being different.
It's been over 30 years since I read this book but I loved it when I read it and would consider reading it again. I recently saw a documentary on Janis Joplin which refreshed my memory regarding this book.
This book is a bible for each and every Janis Joplin fans! Myra Friedman lets you know everything there is to know about this fantastic musician. Very up close and personal!
O livro é muito interessante, porque é escrito por uma amiga muito próxima de Janis. Sua história é triste é linda.Achei a tradução ruim e o livro tem erros de digitação recorrentes.
Great story and detailed description of Janis Joplin's life and misery. Truly showed her emotions and the despair and loneliness she felt.
This biography deserves ten stars. Moving, poignant, beautifully-written.
I think the author Myra Friedman did a great job writing buried alive biography book about Janis Joplin, mostly because she did know Janis personally, the biography talks about how she grew up in Port Arthur, TX and how much of a rebellious teen she was.
I think Myra Friedman wrote this biography because she wanted to tell the world about what are amazing person Janis Joplin really was.
Oddly (since I read this book) I was never really a Joplin fan.
So many of these wasteful pointless deaths among talented, but misled, lonely, and sad people.
Joplin was headed for death for a while and I wonder...was there nothing that could have been done to wake her, before she was found, dead and alone.
The book and the life were and are sad.
be aware.I read it back in 1974 when it came out...almost 4 years after Joplin's death.
I'd say run it down if you're a Janis Joplin fan...it's not, and indeed couldn't be a light read.
In this biography, her publicist, Myra Friedman sets out to tell the full story of this woman who so personified what many people think the 60's were all about.
Friedman, who depicts herself as the closest thing Janis had to a friend, was certainly a sounding board and served as a shield between the press and for that matter, the real world and Janis.
In many ways, Janis had the emotional development of a child, and her moods and whims would have taxed any sane person.
The main problem with the book is that in many ways, Friedman was too close to write this book.
As an insider-outsider in Janis Joplin's terribly short life and career,Myra Friedman brings a bracing mix of skepticism and affection to the world of rock and roll, circa late Sixties.
Friedman's waspish opinions alienated a great many readers, but her clear-eyed takedowns of swinish musicians, early rock criticism, predatory business practices, and Woodstock mythology have plenty of kick.
Stay alert and you'll catch a glimpse of future rock priestess Patti Smith on the fringes of this world.
It wouldn't surprise me if Smith had taken notes and used Joplin as an example of what not to do in order to secure a long life and career.
Back in the early 1980’s, I was stationed in the the San Francisco Bay Area, and became interested in the late 60’s counter culture movement and its music.
I was a very inexperienced reader at the time, and it has been a long time since I read the book, so my review my be very weak.
I see now that this book has been updated and expanded, I guess it’s time that I should read it again.
I recommend this book to anyone interested in the era, the movement, the music and especially Janis.
1st Read: July 9, 1996 - October 28, 1996 (** Rating) Another book which took a long time to read.
I could relate with Janis' disposition a lot.
2nd Read: July 23, 2017 - July 26, 2017 (*** Rating) Absorbed myself into this one at every break at work and at home before bed.
I found the bio to jump around often, but absorbed as I was, it didn't make me lose track of what was going on in the life of Janis.
Quise leer este libro a raíz de haber leído sobre él en Mujeres que corren con lobos y por estar interesada en Janis Joplin.
Según este libro es una buena biografía, a diferencia de la mayoría.La edición es de los años 70, y la traducción la verdad deja un poco que desear, debido a algunas interpretaciones literales.
Es posible que el original en inglés también tenga una lectura un poco caótica.Por lo demás es bastante interesante conocer como fueron su vida personal y su vida artística, viendo los altibajos que fue sufriendo hasta que murió.También es un libro que nos ayuda a conocer esa época, con los míticos festivales, la música del momento, la juventud hippie y beatnik, el uso de drogas y el abuso de ellas, que provocó la muerte de numerosos artistas en la misma época.
Let me start by saying Janis is my hero..my idol.
This book was an awesome look into her life and it was believable as it comes from someone who was close to her and there in friendship and business matters.
Having said all that it was written way to formally for me.
I loved what I was being told but the words left me trying to figure out what exactly was being said.
A textbook look at her life.
Love Janis...Loved the insight I was given from the author...Hated the way I was given it.
I borrowed this book thinking it was one I read as a kid and my Grandma threw in trash because it had lesbianism in it and drugs..can't remember what the title was..
I got half way through and really thought this biography was stupid and contradictory.
Plus the version I got..
Was all messed up and I literally had to guess as to what the words were..the font didn't transfer to overdrive I guess.
Total waste of time..
And then all of a sudden like 3 ppl were on the list to borrow it..wow.
See I don't even remember.
Myra Friedman had mountains of knowledge, both personal and professional, about Janis Joplin, and did a good job illuminating a sad, crazy, charismatic life. I just wish she had shown more than told about Janis' personal experiences both on and off stage. A little more interaction both sexual and personal, with her friends, colleagues, lovers and fans would have added tremendously to my understanding of this touching, talented woman.Being of that age I loved the fervor and excitement she brought to her concerts. Good voice or not she laid it all on the line barring nothing, f---in 100%.
It was a very interesting read. Myra may have known Janis better than anyone so it is fitting that she should write Janis' biography. It wasn't the most well-written book, but Myra did a great job capturing the real Janis Joplin. I wished she would have expressed more of her feelings about Janis' death at the end. I wanted to know more about what happened after her death as well. I thought it ended very abruptly. Great, interesting read though.
Buried Alive is a moving and disturbing account of Janis Joplin's life. Written by her publicist, who knew Janis well, this book definitely shines a spotlight on Janis' erratic behavior and personality. I was somewhat disappointed that the author glossed over Woodstock and Janis' participation there. However, it was well written and filled with personal observations and experiences with Janis as she traveled to stardom.
More in the vein of a memoir than of a biography Buried Alive does a really good job of telling Janis' story. Too many reviewers have an idealized notion of who Janis was but Friedman lived through much of it and doesn't wear the rose-colored glasses the others do. She brings out the person behind the personna, a characteristic that's key to a good biography. I thought it worthy of three stars but Friedman's setting aside the conventional idol worship earned the fourth.
Written by a woman who knew Janis well, Buried Alive is a harrowing account of the short career. Though brilliant, Joplin was a profoundly unhappy person. She, nevertheless, left an unmatched legacy. Friedman introduces music lovers to the woman who was tender, vivacious and, at the same time, self-destrictive. A moving and honest portrait.
This is another sell out bio with not much substance - lots of filler about the times, not much actual detail. Sam Andrew has stated as such and he would know. Go for Alice Echols as the definitive, David Dalton for the every day functioning on the road, Echols or Ellis for interviews with the key players. 9 feb 20156 dec 2015
Uma biografia de Janis Joplin, na qual a autora tenta repassar por ocasiões da vida de Janis tentando reestruturar muito mais do que as partes visíveis da ação da cantora, mas tenta rever seus estados mentais, emocionais etc. Peca na maioria das vezes por cair em grandes suposições, principalmente na parte psicológica de Janis, embarcando em viagens que não é capaz de fazer.
The amazon reviews of this book are very disdainful, but the reviews here seem a bit more positive. Hmm. Well, I'll give it a go...----------------------------------------------I'd say this is the most evocative biography of Janis Joplin I've read. But it's also the most negative. So... I'm torn.
This was a well written account of Janis Joplin's life written by someone who knew her.It contained interesting information. The author did not glorify her. She told the good, the bad, and the ugly.I found it to be a bit wordy at times. I did have moments when I couldn't put it down, but I also felt like it took forever to get to the point.
