https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1278752.The_House_at_Riverton
Her unequal social relationship to the sisters keeps her at a distance and their experiences are relayed through her limited perspective.While I appreciate the detail taken to illuminate the differences in the lives of the social classes, it seemed to take the novel a long time to build up tension around the incident at the heart of the book's mystery.
The use of foreshadowing became a bit repetitive, giving the book the feel of a serial at times.When I reached the end of the book, I couldn’t help wondering what it would be like if Morton had used the ending as a jumping off point for a story about Grace’s later life.
An enjoyable story and a beautiful historical setting marred by clumsy story telling, overbearing foreshadowing, and an emotional disconnect with characters.
I absolutely loved every single second I spent in this universe, and I could have gone on reading forever...The book includes many characters.
It made me feel things - which does mean a lot, since I'm normally not too overly excited about the romance aspects in a book.These developing relationships had an appropriate speed (especially for the time period) and was kept at a convincing level.There are also two portrayals of the aftereffects of the First World War. Those weren't done unnecessarily dramatic or over the top, either.
Something historical, set in a rambling period property on a country Estate, preferably in the middle of the English countryside, throw in a little mystery and intrigue and a few family hidden secrets and I am putty in the authors hands   Reading gives us someplace to go when we have to stay where we are.–Mason CooleyI began my fascination with Grand English Country Houses and Estates when I watched  Upstairs Downstairs as a young girl with my mother and I still hold that fascination.
We witness conversations in the current period between Grace and Ursula, a film director telling the story of what happened when a family friend and renowned poet committed suicide in the 1920s at the Hartford estate.
We know two characters re-connect 40 years later, but how / why.
We know one character leaves a letter to another, but what happened with the gift she also left behind?
That said, this doesn't happen in her later books, so I think these were debut author style changes...
It is everywhere; in my ears, behind my eyes, pushing my ribs…"Grace is 98 years old and living in a nursing facility when a visit from a young film producer compels her to relive her past; a past that is full of secrets that she has kept to herself for the last seventy years.
Her story begins pre-World War I in England, when at the age of fourteen Grace secures a position as housemaid at Riverton House.
Grace will pine for a young man sent to war and will continue in her dedication to the family and to Hannah in particular, with whom she feels a special affinity.
The House at Riverton tells the story of a Manor House in Essex during WW1 and the beginning of the 1920s, told from the perspective of a housemaid, now 98 and living in an old people's home in 1999.
I found it quite haunting, and a lovely study of loyalty, family and the 'butterfly' effect that our decisions can have on other people's lives.
I wanted to read this book because it looked as if it had a lot of elements I really enjoy: Gothic type mystery, haunted house, family secrets, World War I, the 1920s.
The book concerns sisters Hannah and Emmeline Hartford, aristocratic children who grow up over the course of the book.
The other main character in the book is the narrator Grace, a housemaid at Riverton.
Grace tells the story, practically from her deathbed as at 99, of the two sisters and how they witnessed a modernist poet commit suicide in 1924.
Of course, things aren't really as they seem, and each of the characters plays a big part in the poet's death.
This book is a must read for lovers of historical novels and enthralling, well-written, atmospheric mysteries, The House at Riverton is a literary feast for those who love writers like Margaret Atwood, Ian McEwan or Daphne DuMaurier and books reminiscent of The Forsythe Saga, Upstairs,Downstairs and Water for Elephants.
In this page-turner of a novel, beautifully written and evocative of the era in England prior to and after World War 1, the author succeeds in weaving a complex tale of passion, jealousy and intrigue utilizing the past memories of 98 year old Grace Bradley and the secret she has jealously guarded for over 60 years.
I wanted to like this.
High drama and love triangles at the country estate of a rich family during the Edwardian era -- all ending in the famous suicide on the family estate of a post-war poet.
What could go wrong?
Well, as it turns out, it could feel like a cobbled-together collection of Upstairs-Downstairs stereotypes, played-out female character archetypes, and plot twists and sub-plots that, after lots of set-up, amount to very little.
They call it "engrossing" and the characters "intriguing." Whatever.
This was a good historical read, it has a double story going on for the main character. I liked the good ending.
Our heroine, Grace, now a feisty but failing 98, spent her early life at Riverton House in the service of the Ashbury family...and then spent her adult life trying to forget about them.
Alas, it’s more like a shot that rolls around the rim for a while before someone else taps it in.Grace’s flashbacks are nicely interwoven with the present, and, as always, descriptions of life in service underscore how different society was a hundred years ago.
On the plus side, I liked the way Morton portrays the war’s impact.
Still, this is only Morton’s first novel, and I liked it enough to be hopeful about her second.
Me gustó muchísimo este libro.
Amo el estilo de escritura de Kate Morton, y en este se lo puede apreciar al máximo.
Las fotografías nos obligan a contemplar a las personas antes de que su destino las abrume, antes de que conozcan su final.La historia empieza un poco lenta; me costó engancharme.
Sin embargo, la prosa, el marco y los personajes me hicieron mantenerme sumergido en las páginas hasta altas horas de la madrugada.
Olvídense de apartar el libro de sus ojos porque eso no va a ser posible.
Tiene un final tan...
tan...
Es una de las conclusiones que más me explotaron la cabeza.
Una novela brillante.
(Stop reading here if you haven't read this book yet as spoilers follow.) I mean, really, Hannah couldn't throw the gun in the lake rather than shooting her lover?
Grace couldn't tell Hannah that she didn't know shorthand and got someone else to tell her what the first note said?
And why did Hannah think Grace knew shorthand, anyway?
In fact, it seems likely that most employers would have assumed Grace couldn't read at all.
On the sloppy side, I think the minimal dates given for the duration of Grace's later relationship with Albert and the age of their son didn't match up.
Seriously this story killed me. Kate Morton writes such beautifully tragic stories. They move at a slower pace but ending is so worth it. I'm just going to take a moment to shed some tears and process this story.Love listening to this on audio, I feel like I should be drinking some tea and eating cookies.Cheers mate!
¡Me ha encantado!, es de esos libros que te dejan un buen sabor de boca y que ha merecido la pena leer. No cuesta leerlo pero sí engancharse. Al principio trata de contar como empezó todo para entender la historia y eso quizás sea más lento, pero enseguida te enganchas a la trama y ahí ya no puedes parar.
There were so many secrets in this book which made it very suspenseful!
Grace is a maid and she doesn't want to tell her story about The House at Riverton which is a film and they try to get information from her about her stay!
There was a lot of deaths in this book, but of course there is going to be when Grace who is 98 tells her story!
Of course with everything that happened I would be very weak also after finding out what she went through at the ending at how Emmeline had reacted!
Sigh.I loved Kazuo Ishiguro's The Remains of the Day. And I like Downton Abbey.
So The House at Riverton seemed like a sure bet.
It actually did feel almost like a mashup of The Remains of the Day, and Downton Abbey, but Riverton was lacking the things that make them great.
But The House at Riverton felt bland.
While The House at Riverton promised suspense and passion, the majority of the book was dry and dull.
That's way too much time to build up to a final scene of drama.I'm sure I'll try another Kate Morton book sometime.
El libro no está mal, pero hay aspectos que no me gustaron mucho, como el hecho de que el principal suceso de la novela, anunciado incluso en su contraportada, apenas ocupa las últimas páginas del libro, y uno llega a él un poco cansado de tantos recuerdos un poco inconexos de nuestra octogenaria narradora.
El desenlace se lee casi igual que las 450 páginas anteriores; reconozco que es bueno, pero tampoco impactante.También cansa tanta similitud con otras novelas de la autora, es una fórmula que creo se le va a terminar desgastando.De todas maneras es recomendable, se lee bien y las descripciones de la época pre y post guerra son bastante buenas.
La historia es narrada de una forma muy bonita, te lo explica todo sin necesidad de narrarte las partes poco interesantes, me encanta la forma en que en cuatro capítulos pueden haber pasado dos años, los sutiles spoilers que para nada impiden qué el libro te sorprenda, hay tantos personajes pero todos tan definidos, se conecta mucho con algunos protagonistas y de verdad qué soy otra persona después de leer éste libro.
Es el final que más (o casi) me a marcado de todos los libros qué he leído.
En fin, quizás estoy exagerando porqué la lectura es muy reciente, pero de momento, es lo qué pienso.
A great historical fiction piece about a rich high society family with a deep dark secret hidden for decades. This one was a real page turner and the ending was worth the build-up of what The Secret was.
I finished The House at Riverton a few days ago and I'm still trying to process my emotions about the novel.
I loved how Kate Morton paid homage to one of my favorite novels, Rebecca, Upstairs, Downstairs even my favorite drama, Downton Abbey and the The House of Mitford.
She learns that Grace Bradley was a servant at The House at Riverton and may know what happened the night that the young poet R.
Of course the 98 year old Dr. Grace Bradley knows exactly what happened - she was there!
But first Grace must tell what led up to "the crossing the Rubicon".
Es una historia bien contada, pero que tiende a irse mucho por las ramas para mi gusto.
Creo que a todos los amantes de Austen y libros dentro del género de esa autora les encantara esta historia de Kate Morton.
La pluma de la autora es simplemente bellísima.El libro está catalogado dentro del género “misterio” y aunque si hay cierto misterio en la novela, no vallan con la idea de un semi thriller como yo porque no lo es.
Una historia con ritmo lento pero que va acelerando conforme llegas al final, perfecto como lectura ligera en estas épocas navideñas.
I will finish it because I want to know what all of the heavy-handed foreshadowing is leading up to, but I just spent 20 minutes listening to the narrator figure out the identity of her father (ON DISC 10 of 16.
I finally finished it.
I'm not sure the final section of a book has ever taken so long.
Her desire to be BFFs with her employer turned her into a lying liar, which eventually resulted in her betraying said employer and RUINING EVERYONE'S LIVES.
Seriously, most of the main characters die as a result of her actions.
4.5 stars.A comfort read..
part mystery, part historical toggling between the early 20th century and the late nineties.
Grace, the protagonist is 99 years old and is spending her last days in a geriatric care facility.
Her memory is razor sharp as ever and she narrates the story of what happened at the House of Riverton more than half a decade ago when she joined as a lowly kitchen maid.
There are many mysteries surrounding Grace and the 2 aristocratic sisters, Hannah and Emmeline whom she was enamored with...and these are revealed layer by layer.
Thoroughly enjoyed the book.Will read more of Kate Morton, for sure.
This was so unbelievably sad in so many ways but so good too. Riddled with darkness and lightness and secrets. I absolutely loved the mysteries as they all slowly unfolded and everyone's lives, their passions, their secrets, were revealed.
She is prompted to remember certain events that took place surrounding the family that lived at Riverton many years ago, by a film producer wanting to make a movie about a particularly shocking suicide that took place there.
Grace mostly remembers through her interactions with the staff and the two young women who lived there.I enjoyed the story though it is a slow moving one, and though it wasn't entirely satisfying in some respects, I felt it was well done and engaging.
All in all, I do feel I will be looking up some of Morton's other books as well, and have already been recommended "Forgotten Garden" and "Distant Hours", which both look intriguing.
The House At Riverton has great characters and is basically just a great story which is extremely well told.
I loved Grace’s character and her telling of the story of the lives of the inhabitants at Riverton, both the descriptions of upstairs and downstairs in the great house and the various characters from both walks of life.
Morton has a great way of weaving the story so that you think you finally have worked out the great twist at the end, but as usual, even with all my varying combinations of possible outcomes, I didn’t guess the final twist, which was so simple, yet cleverly executed.
If you love Downton Abbey or even the older programme, Upstairs, Downstairs, you will definitely enjoy this book.
I was surprised at the end which makes a work that much better in my mind.
If you enjoyed Water For Elephants or The 13th Tale, you will like this work.
The author drifts back and forth between the times with ease, drawing the reading deeper into the story with each transition.
Enjoyed reading a story from a servant's point of view, especially since Grace (the servant) still feels the need to protect her former employees even though they are all dead and she is in her nineties.
Great work for lover of strong, well developed characters.
Περιγράφεται πολύ ωραία ο τρόπος ζωής των πλουσίων της εποχής αλλά και των υπηρετών τους.
Περιγράφονται όμως πολύ όμορφα και οι σχέσεις αγάπης και ενδιαφέροντος που αναπτύσσονταν μεταξύ των συναδέλφων υπηρετών, αλλά και των αφεντικών με το προσωπικό τους.Μου άρεσε επίσης και ο τρόπος που περιγράφει την εποχή που διαδραματίζεται η ιστορία, με τις τεράστιες αλλαγές στις συνήθειες και στην κοινωνία μετά το πέρας του πρώτου παγκοσμίου πολέμου, όπως επίσης και οι επιπτώσεις του πολέμου τόσο στη ζωή των συγγενών αυτών που άφησαν τη ζωή τους πολεμώντας όσο και στη ζωή αυτών που γύρισαν από τον πόλεμο ζωντανοί αλλά ψυχολογικά σημαδεμένοι.
