https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60551.The_Book_on_the_Taboo_Against_Knowing_Who_You_Are
Yet everyone liked Mom, only a select few got close to Dad. Her heart was an expansive one.Watts describes his book as an attack against the notion that we are individual egos in bodies.
Since the experience began in the shower, that is a particularly vivid and cherished memory.-Despite these bodily-associated memories, I actually spend most times unaware of the Erik body or of anything associated with it.
It often means something is wrong.-Other than inferred references to the Erik body and its sense organs and point of reference, my actual experiences are about common things, be they material or ideational.
If you've ever thought that, says Alan Watts, you're right!It's the taboo against knowing who you REALLY are.
So what in the world do we do?Simple, says Watts - we need to see the Big Picture and our place within it.
So is THAT the taboo?Nope, Watts says - but you're getting the idea.
The taboo is the one against constructing an authentic YOU - and this is the second part...It’s tough.
the list is endless!And you know, there's gonna be all heck to pay if you're DIFFERENT.But this delightful and very readable book is a good place to start being just that.
What a powerful little book. Watts has a gift for explaining Eastern thought and metaphysics to a western audience. Some of the statements in this book will change the way you look at the world in an instant. The day I finished reading this I spent two hours wandering around Seattle staring at trees and buildings and everything else under the sun. Things felt new and interesting for a little while. This book also has lots of interesting (and sometimes very humorous) commentary on western society and the concept of the ego. Truly some food for thought.
This is one of those books that goes deep into the essence of the PERSONAL EGO.
The way we look at the world and why we look at it with squinting eyes.
This book literally opened up my mind to some new thoughts and at solidified some of my own ideas that I had been dwelling on for years.Its funny at times.
But, Read it with no distractions around.
Its only enjoyable if you can literally digest what the man is saying.
Youll never look at the world the same once youve read this book, and I mean that in a good way.EXTREMELY POSITIVE!
I read this based on the numerous, quite intelligent, quotes that can be found on the Internet attributed to Mr. Watts.
Reading this book was a very different experience though.
In the end Watts takes a full book to state the obvious; opposites can't exist without each other and everything in the universe is connected.
He pulls from this understanding that an individual doesn't really exist and that you are connected to everything around you.
My recommendation is to stick to the inspiration derived from quotes you can find from Watts and avoid the useless context of the books they are found in.
Alan Watts does a fine job of breaking through the narcissistic wall that many of us build around ourselves, as if we have a superior, godlike ability to access a vantage point that sees a world around us, apart from us, rather than us of it, fully immersed within the Whole Everything of All Things.Sure, it is totally the book you love as a freshman college student, trying to disavow your WASPy upbringing by incorporating Easternized Western Thought rather than good ol' fashioned Westernized Western Thought.
This perspective he contrasts with Western thought, which is atomistic and ego-based, leading to competition, domination and conflict.
For those who ask hard questions about his perspective, Watts says that truth is beyond understanding.
Questions are off limits, and "no one should use speaking and thinking to find out what cannot be spoken or thought." To bolster that perspective, Watts states that "As Wittgenstein suggested, people who ask such questions may have a disorder of the intellect...." That strikes me as taking some liberties with (the early) Wittgenstein's view of "nonsense." Watts is asserting a truth that Wittgenstein could or would not assert.
I read this book while on a kayaking trip with my older brother on Kachemak Bay, Alaska and I have never, literally, been exactly the same. It pulls the veil back, as it were. You can read it over and over, but I think the best one is the first time through. It made my mind race with the possibilities that it opened up, created some serious dialogue with my brother, and it made the perfect Christmas present, that year, to my parents who absolutely NEED to read it (though I know they never have, and they probably never will...)
I certainly don't agree with him on everything, but this book is life changing. I mostly took off a s tar because he tends to be hypocritical at times - he criticizes superiority complexes but clearly has one, and talks about politics in ways he criticizes people for doing so.
Which is not to say that we are overly full of ourselves (OK, that is kind of what it says), but that our confusion, frustration with life, and overall isolation from one another stems from this cultural meme that the individual exists wholly separate from everything else.Watts finds the Hindu/Buddhist notion of a "ground of being" in place of God to be helpful in dispelling this notion of ego.
If we accept that we are essentially a part of the bigger picture, both physically, molecularly, biologically, cosmologically, etc., then it's easier to come to terms with life, death, and other people.The ideas are nothing new, but I enjoyed his metaphors and the way he explained things allegorically.
What if there were One Book, which gave the low-down on all the Big Questions.
That doesn't really answer those questions in a way that is palatable to the modern, scientific, skeptical thinker.Alan Watts wondered what such a book would be like, and in so doing, he ends up writing it.
He seamlessly integrates modern science into his philosophical musings without resorting to pseudoscience, and without sounding dated, which is amazing for a book written in 1967.
Some really great concepts are discussed in this book making you look at life and existence in new ways. But my eyes glazed over after a few chapters. An updated version of this text would probably go far.
I think there is something to be said on the nature of 'dated philosophy'.While Watts makes some valid points in terms of the ego, the id and the ever present "I", I still think his philosophy is somewhat flawed.
Not only that, but this book (perhaps the edition I have as it was an old library copy" suffers from somewhat antiquated analogies in publications and books that no one reads anymore..
or in fact even knows.I did appreciate that the book was an attempt to get the average person out of their 'box' and to think of themselves as an ever-expanding piece of the universe..
I seem to have this problem where I keep reading books where I pretty much agree with what the author is saying, except that somehow I find it irritating the way they say it.
I'm turned off by the parts where Watts turns to the same old complaints about how the world is deteriorating compared to our previous or natural way of being.
The wide stereotyped pictures painted are quite tiresome, even though I know he's trying to illustrate the general way of things to make his point and not necessarily pinning anyone down as being just like that.
As such, I was really more interested in an exploration of a personal experience of "not-self", or "anatta" as Buddhists refer to it.
As a meditation practitioner, though, I came to feel ultimately that none of what Watts says here is necessary to experience or understand anatta - indeed it may complicate or even confuse the issue for some.
I especially liked his portrayal of how we habitually place artificial conceptual nets or grids over reality - obscuring what is naturally more "wiggly" - in order to measure or quantify various aspects.
Alan Watts argues that the Self is an illusion, and does so in an eloquent, playful manner.
Most of the book focuses on helping the reader intuit this concept, rather than trying to convince them in a formal, logical manner.
It's a nice change of pace from Spinoza's itemized logical constructs, for instance, and although it feels less like mental gymnastics, it's actually more effective.The book does ramble a bit, and some of the arguments are fast and loose.
It's not always clear whether Mr. Watts is using sarcasm or cutting a corner.
It changed the way I look at life.
I discovered Alan Watts several years ago and became a fan of his entertaining talks on eastern philosophy. Since that time, I've listened to countless hours of his recordings. Until now I have not read any of his many books. If you are someone interested in grasping the philosophical concepts of Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, or even Christianity, I highly recommend subscribing to the Alan Watts podcast via iTunes as a starting point. After reading this book, I can say he was a much better orator than he was a writer.
With a nice heady sativa, I think I would have enjoyed this book more. This book is like the four hour conversation that you had one night with your stoner buddy Doug back in college about life the universe and everything. There were a lot of interesting nugs of thought dropped on you, but at times your mind wandered away and then came back at a totally different place. You are IT man! Recommended bookshelf: Things to read when stoned.
2.5 stars. I am a huge fan of Alan Watts' lectures, but this book was just too rambling for me, and I felt that the main point (that everything is connected...I think?) has been expounded on better by others. Reading this was like reading a "page a day" calendar of Alan Watts anecdotes. It just jumped from one idea to the next too rapidly for me to settle in and enjoy it overly much.
Pity I didn't pursue his wider work though I am not sure it would have had the same impact on me in my 20's so full of myself and on the slide into the same chronic alcoholism that killed him.In this little book he isolates the great hoax, the sense of separate, self determining, self serving omnipotent and everlasting "I, me and mine." He describes tjhe intricacies of the hoax and the role played by our western societies, particularly the religions inherent in them in perpetuating the hoax and binding almost everyone, other than the heretics in the tabbo against seeing or exploring the hoax for what it is.
This book really started everything for me.
There is a confluence in this book of Native American tradition and the consciousness which expanded in the American 60s.
If you've ever dropped acid, ate shrooms, been stoned, then this book will be very accessible.
Even if not, it is the kind of straight-forward read, and Watts the thorough, articulate thinker, that anyone with an open mind can grasp it.
It's the kind of critical thinking that doesn't diminish the object it evaluates, but illuminates it.
This is a must for anyone who *knows* that there is so much more beyond the pale, so much more than our limited, frightened, collective, common-denominator thinking allows.
Прочитал за два дня будто выпил прохладной воды пока бродил по пустыне в ее поиске.
Одна книга и я поклонник Алана Уотса - западного дзен-философа.
Как естественно сложилось и счастлив, что именно так, а не наоборот: я начал чувствовать то, чему не мог найти объяснения.
Оказавшись в лабиринте знаний, я лишь замечал намеки, ориентиры и, наконец, наткнулся на того, кто заговорил теми устами, что ублажили мой ум.
Мозаика сложилась в картину, теперь ее не развалить, она будет лишь расширяться, пока не выведет меня за "луч сознания".
Спасибо, мистер Алан Уотс, отныне я Ваш верный поклонник, а Вы стали для меня воротами в мир того, о чем сегодня не говорят.
Mr. Watts's purpose in this book is to discuss who or what we really are.
He is telling us that the world is not made up of separate things.
I guess this is what life and death are like to Watts.
Teilhard de Chardin called the living area of the world the "biosphere" and the mineral planet is the "geosphere." Watts sees all of it as one thing, one complete being.
Life growing off the mineral planet is like fruit growing on a tree.
Mr. Watts criticizes philosophy for losing its sense of the metaphysical.
Suck as much Immanence up your nostril as you'd like -- this time we need to FACE the reality.
Just like saying we should all be 'color-blind' in the highly racist world we live in has the effect of denying the reality of racism & discrimination hence taking away our ability to deal with the ugly truth, using immanent ideologies as opium may provide momentary pleasure -- but is intellectual, AND physical suicide.
This book has many quotes and analogies that I continue to use today when explaining my view of the universe and my relation to "God." I've given out at least 8 copies of this book to my friends, with never a bad review.
I can't say enough good things about this book.As an aside.
Alan Watts is one of the greatest spiritual teachers in my life.
The lectures he left prior to his passing affirmed many of the beliefs I held, and extended these beliefs to levels I previously hadn't been able to see.
While not all of his books are something I would recommend, but his lectures are absolutely otherworldly.RIP Mr. Watts, you were true visionary.
Everyone should read this, everyone.... push past the eyerolling of a teenager and get them to read it, push past the contrariness of a politician and get them to read it, push past the busyness of the full time worker and get them to read it, push past the multitasking mind of a parent and get them to read it, push past the disdain and mocking by friends and get them... you get the gist, for herein lies the stuff of life...
This is a book that states the premise upfront, and then drives it home every which way afterwards, angle after clever angle, example after meaningful example. Should be basic reading for the planet.
One of the best books I read in 2017. Reading becomes immensely joyful when the thoughts of the writer pulsates with your own thoughts. In such moments, reading feels like an interesting conversation.
But there's a fundamental truth here that resonates with flashes of inspiration I've had, aha moments, on LSD - that we are all one, that we are all connected.Watts spends a lot of time talking about our insistence that we are separate, that we are individual processes apart from the OTHER that is the rest of the universe, that is nothingness.
In fact, he spends more time talking about this HOAX, this titular TABOO, than what the truth is, and what the point to life is in this new world.
I think I got more from The Doors of Perception by Aldous Huxley and from some modern similar books, Waking Up by Sam Harris, and The Happiness Hypothesis by Jonathan Haidt. This is a good companion book though and it goes in its own very unique direction. Plus I always give bonus points for brevity.
