https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8276895-city-of-endless-night
Score 4.5 stars.Many people make a big deal about the fact that this book was written in 1920. It is true it is somewhat prescient of what was to come regarding WWII. It is based after all on a city of Berlin where survival is due to eugenics and other 'twisted' models of society. It would not surprise me if this book was on Margaret Atwood's bookshelf too. What I would also like to point out is that it is a good adventure book with incredible detailed world building and a very enjoyable (somewhat short) read. Dive in readers.
So as I am reading this story, a utopia/dystopia, certainly futuristic but utterly human, I am wondering when it was written.
But I see that it was written in 1919, and published in book form (perhaps the very form of the edition I have) in 1920.Wow. This dude, like, saw the future of the rise of fascism in Germany and the advent of World War II.
It's a good story, a good vehicle to run us through the world as it might have been and still might be.If you like futures/dystopias/utopias, this one's for you.
The book was written in 1919 and I found the prose difficult to understand at times (English is not my native language), quite contained and very matter of fact.
There is a bit of romance and enough tension of all sorts to want to keep reading.However, right from the beginning there were things that irked me, namely how everything came together for our main character.
(view spoiler)[He enters this world by taking the place of a dead guy who looks just like him and who happens to have his own personal biography in his pocket, after having had a life experience that would allow him to succeed brilliantly at his new persona.
I really really liked this novel.
A chemist (chemistry plays a large part in this world of 2041) manages to infiltrate the city several generations after they go underground and finds a untopia that is part Nazi Germany and part Brave New World, with a sprinkle of Kaiser's Germany thrown in.
The descriptions of the city structure (physically and organizationally) are intriguing, but unlike Brave New World, the characters are real and the plot compelling.
Having never heard of the novel or author I was pleasantly surprised to have found a hidden gem.
This Germany is an eugenic state of the highest order, with workers bred in castes and segregated by levels.
The World State has been trying to attack Berlin for a hundred years, and the main character decides to attack the Germans as soon as he realizes he has a chance to.
The protagonist also seems to go native a lot, in order for the book to explore each level of Berlin, and the idea he has to escape gets forgotten until the very end.
The city is now a subterranean megapolis of 300 million Germans, protected from the outside world by a massive domed fortification and ruled by the imperialist Hohenzollern dynasty.
The weakness and downfall of the League of Nations is also predicted.This book is thus fascinating for what it says about the time when it was written and geopolitical fears after the First World War. It is also an effective novel, as the dystopia it describes is so well thought-through.
Whilst the world outside buried Berlin barely gets a mention, the underground city itself is vividly described and lingers in the mind.
In the future Berlin has become a ‘country’ of 300 million battling the rest of the world.This was a random selection from the library (I’d never heard of the book or the author) and I’m glad I picked it up.
The story was set in a future world that (considering the book was written in 1919) was surprisingly accurate in some aspects.
The central characters are all well drawn / developed / believable, the story line has its own logic and the imagined world was fascinating (think George Orwell mixed with Philip K.
If you like future dystopian stories this is definitely worth a look.
This was one of the most amazing books I have ever read. I absolutely and thoroughly enjoyed every second of the read. I was disappointed when I finished that the story had ended.
A very strong apocalyptic novelFor a full review, please go to https://areviewerdarkly.blogspot.com/... and follow me on Twitter @josenher
People can have cultures which manifest the same basic needs and drives and impulses- universal motivations, that are expressed in a variety of different ways.Some issues this book touches are still things we struggle with in the modern world.
The idea of human worth, the value of resources, economic efficiency.
Just how much humanity is worth sacrificing to maintain control?
and still huge issues to this day.
A lot of discussion of various forms of government and philosophies including eugenics and socialism takes up a large portion of the novel.
To actually believe that Imperial Germany could have gotten to this point requires a mighty suspension of disbelief.
Parts of this novel read much as some of the crude anti-German propaganda from the Wilson administration and friends.
There were crude pamphlets and movies such as The Beast of Berlin and Wolves of Kultur distributed throughout the U.S. This novel begain life as a serialized story during that era.
In fact, our view of Imperial Germany is colored by this propaganda and the crimes of the Nazis.
Considering this book turns 100 years old this year, it is amazingly prescient.
It's the story of an alternate future, where WW2 never really ended but the Nazis barricaded themselves underground Berlin in a massive several hundred storey city.
Today's political situation is eerily the same - one race/cultural group claiming superiority/supremacy over the rest of the world - a repetition of history.
After 100 years the novel hasn't dated much - even though the language is a little formal (compared to today), the city itself is trapped in a type of 'time warp' allowing that formality of speech to be acceptable.
This is one of the most artfully crafted books I've ever read. Really sad to have to turn it back into the library. The characters were well defined, the world building was wonderful, and the prose was delicate. I adored the science. It reminds me of the MaddAddam series because of 1. The science and 2. The lack of a huge climatic ending. It does have an awesome ending but truly the beauty in this book lies with the journey to get there.
His position gives him some privileges and he learns how the city functions on a practical as well as social basis, and this is where it got interesting (and I stopped feeling embarrassed about reading it).Remember, this was written in 1919 – less than a year after the end of WWI – and yet it comes uncomfortably close to predicting many of the conditions that subsequently happened under the Nazis.
this made for solidarity and power and quite prevented any adaptation of the form of government to the needs of the world that had arisen since his demise."p187 on voting: "But suppose they should sometime fail to re-elect him?" / "No danger..
It usually made little difference which was elected; but the system was imperfect because the voters who voted for the candidate which lost were not pleased.
Whereas "Anna" blew me away with the life it presented and humbled me in the way it caused me to look at myself and my relationships, "Endless Night" gave me that good, old science fiction thrill that I knew as a kid."City of Endless Night" was written in the 1920's and reading it gave me the same pleasure I get from watching old black and white movies.
Norman Rockwell was a master at what he did, however, and Hastings created a wonderful world in that armored city of 300 million imprisoned souls.I read with delightful anticipation as our hero prepared for his unexpected discovery and entry into the armored city of Berlin.
In an altered order of history, the World Nations (Americans) are currently fighting the Germans, who hope to dominate the world as the Supreme race.
As life continued in the underground city, the Germans made rapid changes to increase the efficiency of every man and woman within their system.
Armstadt, the new identity of our American spy, personally struggles to maintain morality in a place where life is cut down to numbers and schematics, rather than on the basis of love and compassion for the fellow man.
Many social issues are brought up from the debate of religion versus science, corruption within the social order, equality, and issues regarding freedom.
By that time, the entire planet is governed as a world state—except for the enemy city of Berlin: surrounded by the desolate waste of the most recent world war, it is now home to 300,000,000 Germans, who live in this giant protected city existing under glass and protected by scientific shielding, stretching sixty stories high into the sky and deep into the bowels of the earth.The narrator of the novel becomes the first outsider to break through and get into walled-off Berlin in several generations—much of the novel is about him coming to understand the social and cultural practices in that modern Berlin—in essence, what the author predicted could come to pass if the Germany he knew should win a second world war later in the 20th century and later progress in isolation from there.
The author then introduces an American hero from outside this world who infiltrates it and has various adventures.There are many detailed descriptions of the various adaptations the Germans have made to their society, which gives a good feel to the overall setting.
Characters are introduced, but most of the dialog is explaining the different sociological changes in the nation; there is little personal dialog, or even a feeling that the characters have lives apart from the story line.
This may or may not be appropriate, considering the setting, but it does not make for a very entertaining story, despite the provocative ideas the author introduces.
This should be reveered as much as 1984 and Brave New World as this predicts Nazi Germany with a more unique take on what could have happened to the Nazis and Nazi Scientists and socialist speakers that got away from their war crimes.I don't want to give too much away , so i shall keep this review short and sweet.
I will say it is about what would happen if Hitlers campaign carried on and the whole of Berlin went underground to carry out its master plan of a super race and take over of the world.
With no further context, readers are led to believe that its representations of a victorious democratic world, segregated Berlin, references to a second world war, and a controlling semi-socialist imperial state teeming with the horrors of eugenics and racial supremacy would draw its motivation directly from the aftermath of World War II.
In reality, this book was published two decades prior.
To modern readers, this novel, which follows the story of an American chemical engineer as he by a twist of fate becomes trapped in the armored city of Berlin and assumes the identity of German chemist Karl Armstadt, offers a chilling insight into a alternate reality had Germany/Berlin remained separate from the world for centuries to come.
I really enjoyed the novel.
I read it very quickly as I wanted to know what would happen to the protagonist and I wanted further information on the workings of the dystopia...However I feel that the ending was rushed as though the author was out of steam.The book was written in 1920 and I wouldn't have guessed that at all.
I commend the author's imagination and really see this as a precursor to many ideas shown in other, later dystopia.
In that way it is definitely worth reading if you're interested in the genre but to a casual reader I don't think it would appeal.
What a pleasant surprise. Picked this one up at the bookstore after seeing its intriguing title and a brief typical sci-fi synopsis on the back cover, without knowing its background and context - that it was written before WWII - until I was more than halfway through the book. Made the rest of the book all the more interesting - but even if it were written more recently and as a result less prescient than it is, it was still a riveting read. Hastings creates a memorable world and takes us through some philosophical and emotional rides. Highly recommended.
A public domain book I downloaded for my Kindle. The plot is rather typical of early sf as it involves a colorless hero going to a strange land, in this case a Germany run by eugenics waging eternal war in a an underground city, wanders around figuring how it works, has a romance, and then escapes.I found it interesting that this came out after World War One was over but was predicting another world war even then, and that the eugenics of the book did seem to mirror some elements of fascism. An historical curiosity that was also actualyl readable.
An entertaining enough dystopia story with some clever or insightful sociological points of analysis spread throughout, as the protagonist explores the underground city of Berlin and the various ways by which it manages to function in isolation. On occasion the book's age shows through, but for the most part the reader doesn't have to stretch their imagination to picture what is going on. Not as memorable as other dystopia novels of the time, such as Zamyatin's We.
I took this book on for the blind book for April. I thought it would be an interesting read and started out to be so. A Germany of the future! But it ran cold and uninteresting. I almost stopped reading it a couple of times but decided to finish it if that even meant skimming most of the pages for something that caught my eye. When it got close to the end I was hoping for something big and exciting but the end was just so normal!
Yes. This one. Just read it. If you love dystopian stories, you will love this. If you love future prophetic science fiction, you will love this. If you love 1984 and Brave New World, you will love this. If you love Nazis, you should probably go and sit in the corner and rethink your whole ideology.
I thought that the ending fell flat because of the uncomplicated victory and the failure to discuss and deal with the fate of the Germans. However, I found the story enthralling and fun. In spite of it obvious datedness, I felt that the issues in Berlin of 2051 are very real in today's world as well.
Well worth a readOld style political-cultural science fiction, of a type that was popular before the 1930s. The 'arcology' of Berlin presages later fiction and the culture is an interesting look at the results of eugenics.
An absolute must read if you are a fan of the dystopian genre. The most terrifying part is how it was almost prophetic regarding the Third Reich, considering that this book was written BEFORE World War II.
