https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10211494-stories-i-only-tell-my-friends

While Rob Lowe's memoir certainly contains a lot of name dropping, I couldn't really hold that against him — after all, if you're telling the story of how you worked your way up in Hollywood, it'd be hard not to mention the names of other famous people you met along the way.I haven't seen much of Lowe's work.
But Rob has proven that he's earned his position in Hollywood through a lot of hard work, rejections and tough lessons learned on the price of achieving success at so young an age.
Although the celebrity stories were fun, the "Aw shucks I'm just a geeky guy" thing didn't quite work for me.
I wouldn't judge him too harshly for most sexy hijinks - sure, banging two women, one of them a 16 year old, on videotape is undoubtedly unsavory, but I think it was consensual.
A 16 year old is young enough that she hasn't outgrown stupid, but old enough to say "yes" and mean it.
That goes past unsavory to flat out wrong.The sex scandal prompted Rob to go to rehab for alcohol abuse.
Not for Rob, who enjoys getting to know himself this way.
Rob doesn't seem to be a bad guy.
Child actors, the Brat Pack, teenage Tom Cruise turning down roles because the part "doesn't work for him" - it's awesome.As for the rest of the book, Rob Lowe is a decent writer, and he has some great stories to tell.
- I felt like I got a pretty good sense of Rob Lowe from this book.
Also, Tom has a new perspective on his acting style, telling me, "I want to spend time hanging with you but Joel [his character] doesn't."Finally, here's a gif of Rob Lowe from his sex symbol days.
I generally avoid celebrity memoirs, but I saw a nice excerpt from Rob Lowe's latest one, "Love Life," about how emotional he was when his son went away to college, and decided to give his first autobiography a chance.I am a child of the 80s, so I grew up with Lowe's movies and those of the so-called Brat Pack.
The Outsiders was popular when I was a kid, ("Stay gold, Ponyboy") and I also loved St. Elmo's Fire and About Last Night.
Lowe's book had good behind-the-scenes stories about those movies and others, and he was frank about his womanizing and drinking problem back then.
Color me surprised!
This autobiography kept my attention and brought me to the edge of tears on at least three occasions.
There was an air of nostalgia to it with talk of growing up in the seventies and so many eighties movies I had long since forgotten about, but it was also genuinely interesting and surprisingly well-written.
Rob Lowe, an actor worth $30 million, comes across as humble, hardworking, grateful, and relatable...no small feat.
This makes me want to read The Outsiders and find the original movie, the one with all Rob's later cut scenes.
I really gained a lot of respect for Rob Lowe through reading this book.
I listened to the audio version, read in his own voice and I feel like that made it more personal.
I listened to it at the same time as I was reading Patrick Swayze's The Time of My Life and while I enjoyed that one also, it wasn't nearly the read that this one is.
I did however, enjoy the parallels between their two careers, as well as the level of respect with which they both speak of each other.Rob Lowe is clearly an intelligent guy.
So I read the Rob Lowe autobiography.Why?
The answer lies in the fact that Vanity Fair ran a long excerpt from it a month or two ago, featuring the segment where Lowe talks about his experiences auditioning for and then appearing in Francis Ford Coppola's The Outsiders.
While the rest of the book is also very smoothly and competently written, it also doesn't come close to matching the insight of The Outsiders section anywhere else over the course of his career — he ends up glossing over much of his film career, barely touches on his sex scandal, and even the chapter on his (very publicly troubled) history with The West Wing goes to great lengths to be bland and positive (presumably so as not to ruin his chances of ever working with Aaron Sorkin or the rest of the cast again).
I often forget how old Rob Lowe is, and subsequently how popular he was in the 80's. I listened to this on audio, which I highly recommend, and found it really enjoyable. Apparently Tom Cruise has always been a bit of a weirdo, no surprise there.
A fun, quick read.
Where's the dirt on Sally Field and Calista Flockhart and the week-after-henious week of bizarre plots on Brothers & Sisters, which drove him into a persistent vegetative state, which sounded like a good deal if it meant getting off that show?!
Like, a lot.
I would have liked to get much more dirt on, say, the sex tape, Princess Stephanie, and the West Wing behind-the-scenes drama, instead of one-sided half-analyses from which he emerges sounding reasonable, balanced, gracious, humble, and never possibly the cause of the problems.
All in all, a fun read.
You can tell why he called this "Stories I only tell my friends," since much of the book is: "One day, I was walking down the street, and I met this girl, and she was really pretty, and really nice, and she told me she was into acting, and I said I was too.
His self deferential, accepting of the absurdities of Hollywood, serious about his craft, surprisingly lacking in ego when talking about the ups and downs of his career, and yes, he has some funny stories to impart.
Rob Lowe's life sounds so insanely cool that it's hard to believe it all actually happened to one man.
I mean, before I even reached chapter ten he'd already befriended the Sheens and Penns, been on the set of Star Wars and seen the taping of The Muppet Movie.
If it weren't for the acoholism and numerous deaths of family and friends, it'd be a perfect run.He's one of my favourite actors and so I found it extremely thrilling and interesting to have this glimpse into his life.
Insanely good-looking.
Several reasons top the list: 1) Reviews promised it offers a poignant, self-deprecating coming-of-age tale in the long shadow of the Hollywood sign (I'm happy to report that's mostly the case).2) Rob Lowe: yes, I did crush on him when I was a teenager, and lo and behold these many, many years later, I was curious to see what kind of a man he had grown up to be.
Don't ask me why -- I don't act, have never wanted to make a film, but I love movies as only a fan can and every so often a memoir will come along that captures the magic of movie making in a way that enthralls me.
Which may be why I procrastinated on listening to this highly rated memoir.Rob Lowe tells a great story, and I'm so happy to be among his friends that he shares with.
I highly recommend - Nay, I insist that you choose the audio version of this book.
He voices icons that he meets in his life with respect and some accuracy, including Cary Grant, Martin Sheen, Michael J Fox, Christopher Walken, Andy Warhol, Matt Dillon and many more.I have emerged from this book with admiration for Rob Lowe, in spite of his admitted youthful philandering assholery.
مجموعه ای داستان ها، خاطرات و یادبود هاست که شامل رشد کردن، بزرگ شدن، معروف شدن و درنهایت رسیدن به چیزی که همیشه در زندگی میخواست، شدن. داستانهای جذابن اما بعضی هاشون واقعا تلخ ان. نکته جالبش توصیف مراحل آشنایی و رفتارش با سلبرتی هایی بود که باهاشون آشنا میشد. ابتدا تمام مشخصاتشون رو میگفت، رفتارشون رو نشون میداد و درنهایت اسمشون رو بیان می کرد. چند بار از این تکنیک توی متن استفاده کرد. نثرش ساده س وسریع هم به پایان میرسه.Nothing in life is unfair. It's just life.
I got this book as a get well present from a friend (thanks, Jan!), and it was a decent mindless read. I only rated it ok beucase he doens't dish any dirt, whcih is what I hope for in a celeb authobiography. The way he writes it, everyone he's ever dealt with was wonderful, every movie another experience for him to grow and make BFFs (when all I want to hear is stories like "I once did PCP with Charlie Sheen and we ended up eating his cat").
I just wanted to say good-bye and thank you for letting me be a part of a wonderful evening." Then, when I am almost out of earshot, I hear Wagner say "Ya know guys, I think that kid's banged every one of our daughters."--As Matt Dillon's character, Dallas, arrives on the scene, I observe another phenomenon - the power of charisma.
Matt is one of those guys.--"Young man," she says.
I watch as she goes on to receive her Lifetime Achievement Award to a standing ovation.When Lucille Ball likes what you do, it's hard to give a shit about anyone else.--
But as he tells his life story thus far, you start to get to know the "man behind the mask" so to speak.
I found Lowe an intelligent, sensitive and quite eloquent man and he really has a great story to tell.
I heard of his childhood and all the pain and laughter that entailed, his rise to stardom, his battle with alcoholism, and his love for his wife and boys.
It's really a great story and if you have any interest in either Lowe or actors (especially the "love" of acting), then you should check this out.
Listening to this on a long car ride, the first two-thirds of the book was a fun guessing game of which celebrity Lowe was referring to in his story!
Lowe also does great impressions of the celebrities he discusses.
Rob Lowe has definitely lived a #blessed life - his family moving to Malibu when he was young, introduced him to some of the great actors of his time and gave him lots of opportunity.
It is really amazing that he turned his life around so quickly and at a young age to focus on family and his career.
Lately, l’ve read memoirs from an interesting hodge-podge of celebrities, most of them men of medium talent. We’re talking Jim Breuer, Steve Guttenberg, Jason Priestley, Pat O’Brien, Bob Saget and Corey Feldman. The best of the batch so far has been Rob Lowe’s  Stories I Only Tell My Friends . Lowe seems the most in touch with his own natural personality and the greater scheme of the world around him. While no doubt there was some selective editing, the stories in this narrative aren’t concocted
Acting, of course, was a natural talent he discovered early, but aside from getting within ten feet of Telly Savalas at a department store autograph signing, nothing starts to fall in place for the young Rob Lowe until his mom and new stepdad move to California.The first hundred pages or so after the move to California is the best stretch of the book.
(I made all that up about Polanski for a cheap laugh - but he is in the book, just a chapter or so ahead of the sex scandal, and Lowe starts the story with, "Roman Polanski had a couple girls he wanted me to meet." Which made me LOL.)A tip from my Goodreads friend Erin - the audiobook of 
Wow, I sure loved that poster…A good third of this book is about filming the movie “Outsiders”.
Honestly when someone brings up that movie, Rob Lowe does not come to mind immediately.
But in reading this, and Lowe is talking about all the work he is doing, and these emotionally draining scenes, and having to cry…..
I have never watched that show, so I could not get into that part, and skimmed all the way through the last section.The theme of this story is that he has matured, stabled and is happy.
In all, a quick read, but I did not love it.
But, I thought his book would be like many celebrity autobiographies and held back from buying it.
I also bought the audible book (highly recommended and read by Lowe; his impersonations of celebrities/friends are spot on).
Lowe humbly tells his story as a boy from Ohio who moves with his crazy mom and brother to Malibu, CA and his relentless quest to be an actor.
The book reinforced what I already knew or suspected -- Rob Lowe is a humble, charming and intelligent man.
You can tell how much he loves his wife and the life they have built.
Granted his life is waaay cooler.Anyway, I was reluctant to give my time to this book because I thought it would be another privileged, Hollywood narcissist rambling on about how entitled they are and just because someone gives them words to say in their work, we should be lectured to about the world’s ills—as if their career makes them experts in everything.
The name of the book is very appropriate in that I truly felt like he was sitting across from me telling me his life stories friend to friend.His writing was perfect as he told me his stories.
He connected with me and even though it was his life story, I felt like I was there with him throughout.
Rob Lowe is an icon from the '80s and I have had a crush on him for many years.
Rob has had many opportunities and many setbacks in his life, and he glosses over some of the messiest bits but doesn't pull many punches when he talks about hitting rock bottom and getting sober after many years using alcohol as an anesthetic against the difficulties of life.I listened to the audio book which was read by Rob himself and I think it made the experience even more enjoyable.

I absolutely loved this book! Do the audio version!
Very interesting read. I definitely recommend listening to the audiobook version narrated by Lowe himself.
I realize, now after finishing this book, that the reason I love him is the fact that even though he's 12 years older than me and from a different section of the United States, we have the same cultural background.
Rob let's us in to the story of his life by telling us about the time he met JFK jr.
as he tells the story we are reminded of the loss, but also of the passion behind the life of this man.
This book is above all a love letter to the family that has made Rob Lowe the person he is today.This book made me realize how easy it is to write my own story.
I "read" this in audio format and was glad I did as Rob does a good job of narrating his own stories.
His sexcapade tape was mentioned in broad terms and he seemed a little chagrined that it got so much negative attention when sex tapes today seem to make celebrities a ton of money (Kardashian, Hilton, etc).
I highly recommend this for what appears to be an honest celebrity memoir, and according to Rob, he had no ghost-writer.
And listen to the audio version if you can; it greatly enhances the book.
I have always enjoyed Rob Lowe as an actor..and yes...as a heartthrob!
I just watched the pilot of his new show "The Grinder." I enjoyed it.
I listened to the audio of this and I loved hearing Rob tell his story in his own voice.
He has a wonderful outlook and he writes with honestly about the good and the bad...in his career and in life.
I loved getting such an inside look at television and the movies and of course hearing about all of his Hollywood friends and cast-mates.
This was better than I was expecting....a wonderful "listen."
