https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201414.The_Authoritarian_Personality
This book has been debunked by contemporary social psychologists for its flawed execution, Freudianism, and confirmation bias. Having read some of these critiques first, I was surprised to find that the book was much more nuanced, compassionate toward its subjects (including the "high scorers") and liberal on matters of sexuality than most of the contemporary critics give it credit for. I can understand why it's had such a huge influence.
I loved this book in the 80's and found it so relevant to understanding certain people. Eerily, it became more and more relevant during the Bush years. The introductions could have been written today.This is a sociological study, so it isn't a light read, but it is an important read.
Adorno once flirted with empirical sociological research. Maybe this study should be supplemented today with a Second Part :: The Libertarian Personality. But wouldn't that be redundant?
there's a little stormtrooper in all'y'all cappy losers.
I found this book very interesting, but too (needlessly) long, I think. I put it away a few times because I got a little tired of it. But I finished it anyway because it offers an interesting mix of statistics and qualitative analysis on ethnocentrism and an exploration of its development in people. The investigation is over 50 years old, but I think the conclusions are still relevant and really help one understand how prejudice affects judgement and how authoritarian leaders emerge.
Interesting book on the personality structures that might lead to support for fascist political measures. While this is in itself a highly dubious project, the study contains many useful insights into social psychology. It is a difficult read, because it contains some very detailed statistical analysis and a lot of psychoanalytical jargon, the latter of which is IMHO, largely unnecessary.
I only read the introduction and conclusion. I am sold on the authoritarian personality and I think Adorno's insights are wonderful. I will go back and look at it more.
In den 1940er Jahren wurde in den USA eine große empirische Studie durchgeführt, um herauszufinden, ob und wie man das faschistische Potential der Bevölkerung ermitteln kann, unabhängig etwa davon, ob die Menschen entsprechende Meinungen explizit äußern.
Das Ergebnis ist eine Typologie verschiedener autoritärer Charakterstrukturen, die in diesem Buch anhand der geführten Interviews herausgearbeitet und vorgestellt werden.
Die Grundannahme ist, dass die Menschen aufgrund verschiedener psychologischer Charakterstrukturen unterschiedlich auf eine vorurteilsvolle und repressive Gesellschaft reagieren – dass man also an Beidem arbeiten muss, wenn man tatsächlich progressive Veränderungen bewirken will.
Adorno'nun bu kitabındaki (Otoritaryen Kişilik Üstüne) ''antisemit''i daha geniş bir anlamda ele almak ve toplulumuza çeşitli alanlarda uygulamak mümkün: Ermenilere bakış, Kürtlere, gay ve lezbiyenlere, ''laikçi'' kesimin türbanlılara, türbanlıların onlara... Bu nedenle kitabı ilgilenenlere şiddetle öneririm.
A sobering analysis as to why people can be prejudiced and subject themselves to authoritarian leaders. Why do authoritarian leaders emerge? Although subject to much criticism, this book is an important milestone in exploring human behavior.
Innvendinger mot påstander (metodisk problem++) her http://magasinetneo.se/artiklar/demok... - for øvrig interessant artikkel.
only read parts of this book.
