https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316496.Oscar_and_Lucinda
so many beautiful sequences linger on in the mind, so many wonderful characters, such a surprising lightness of tone, such gorgeous prose...
the title characters of Oscar and Lucinda are bold creations.
for me, one of the more absorbing things about their individual characterizations was seeing the difference between an  obsessive gambler (Oscar) and a compulsive gambler (Lucinda).
crazy Oscar and crazy Lucinda are rebels against society who don't particularly realize their own rebellious nature - they just know that they are somehow different.
but at some level, at times an unconscious one, they recognize injustice and try to fight against it, in their own small ways.
beautiful novel!
I've excused a lot of novels (esp contemporary ones) for bad or unsatisfying endings.
Then there are the "conservative" endings of Victorian novels that many scholars complain "shut down" or tidy the "subversive" or threatening ideas raised in the novel.
That's one reason I find it annoying when people complain Victorian novels are "too long" -- are you just reading in order to finish?
The ending would never be so striking if the novel didn't take its time with the characters -- not just the eccentric title characters, but also the supporting ones.
His characters and the world he creates have a similar eccentricity and inventiveness and energy.
Oscar’s childhood is a sheer delight to read.
When his wife dies, Oscar’s father takes all her clothes and throw them in the sea.
At university he’s nicknamed “odd bodd” and discovers he has a mania for gambling, a huge obstacle to his clerical ambitions.
Like Oscar she has wild hair.
They fuse their passions in the idea of building a church made wholly of glass.
This novel has it all – a great plot, fantastic character development, brilliant writing – the visual descriptions are consistently wonderful.
It is a hydra, an organism, stupid or dangerous in much of its behavior, but could it have, in spite of this, a proper judgement about which of its component parts fit best together?” ― Peter Carey, Oscar and LucindaA book to love.
Just like a coin spun/tossed/launched at midday into the sky will twist head over tails -- at once both reflecting and in turn blocking the sun-- this book twists between obsessive Oscar and compulsive Lucinda and spun wildly around a whole slew of characters and just spun there, suspended forever, threatening never to come down.

This is a marvellous love story from Mann Booker prize winning author Peter Carey. It is both about modern Australia and the love of these beautifully drawn protagonists and one that I must absolutely reread.
I definitely expected to like this book a lot more than I did, based on another Carey novel I remember loving years ago (True History of the Kelly Gang).
While I liked the title characters in Oscar and Lucinda well enough, I wasn't terribly attached to either of them by the end.
I know I've been pretty negative so far (and maybe TOO negative, due to my own bias towards the tone and style I attempted to describe above) but I actually did enjoy the book for the most part.
How many ways you can tell a love story?
It tells about the two odd gamblers, Oscar Hopskins, a preacher's son and Lucinda, a heiress who buys a glass factory.
Especially when I was done reading the book, I thought that this could be cut in a half and the story would still be the same if not more enjoyable.
This is my first time to read a Peter Carey novel but I thought that with those images making prints in my mind, I have no doubt of his skillful artistry in telling stories.I should read more Peter Carey.
The prose is outstanding and these characters are simply so real I thought they'd float off the page.Oscar and Lucinda is set both in England and in Australia in the 19th century.
One thing leads to another and Oscar sets out to become a missionary in New South Wales but he has to go by ship...a problem since Oscar has this immense water phobia.
The lives of these two people come together on the ship, then meet again after Oscar discovers that there is no Missionary Work to be done in New South Wales, and that he is to be assigned to a posh vicarage instead.
Two gamblers fall in love and conspire to transport a glass church across the outback in colonial times?
Peter Carey's Oscar and Lucinda was a great trip for me.
While the basic story is what's written above, it is more honest to say that the transporting a glass church thing is just something that happens in the book.
It's the way Carey describes things and his sense of timing.
This all somehow leads to a very insightful look at faith, colonialism, love, death.Somehow in this book Carey has taken a million minute, seemingly unimportant details, and compiled them into something touching and important.
There must be something wrong with me.
I know most people can't get enough of the sunken cathedral symbol, but it leaves me unmoved.
Well, I could possibly make an exception for the diving bell sequence in Waterworld, but that was mainly because of the contrast with the rest of the movie.In Peter Carey's novel, there's all this elaborate build-up, and what do we get at the end?
A sunken cathedral.
Okay, it's made of glass and it's been transported to the outback and...
But I'm just, ho-hum, another bloody sunken cathedral.
“Writing long books is a laborious and impoverishing act of foolishness: expanding in five hundred pages an idea that could be perfectly explained in a few minutes" Jorge Luis Borges“So the writer who breeds more words than he needs, is making a chore for the reader who reads.”― Dr. SeussWhat a pity.
After 270 pages I still failed to like a single character, failed to understand what was so important in those 270 pages, don't understand what could be so stunning about lovestory between 2 hyped up characters, don't know what historical or cultural significance the novel could present what it couldn't till now!
Life is a game of chance. Oscar and Lucinda is a perfect stylization to Charles Dickens and at that the novel remains postmodern. In the end evil is punished and somehow good is punished too.
In "Oscar and Lucinda" we find subdued humor and understated actions that possess significant implications.
Some might find this quiet approach boring, but I have a soft spot for novels that don't like to reveal too much at a time.
In this particular novel, Carey does a masterful job of portraying the awkwardness of courtship.
Carey is clearly having a lot of fun with this aspect of the story.But this is not just a love story.
"Oscar and Lucinda" confirmed my appreciation for the author.
The Prince Rupert's Drop that so impresses the young Lucinda symbolically represents the incredible resilience and terrifying vulnerability that reside within us all and is so beautifully illustrated by the two misfit heroes of this book.
I love and I hate that Carey lied to me (or at the very least deliberately tricked me) and I went scrambling back through the book to find the point of deception It's not the characters that make this book so thoroughly Australian, it's the way Carey tells the tale.
It's there in the trickery, the irreverence and the affectionate contempt the narrator tells the tale.
I am declaring myself FINIS! but only because I'm horribly bored and can't take it any more.
Just couldn't finish this. I found it impossible to read and get engaged with. I guess the movie is the better option!
4.5
Brilliant. Gutwrenching. Carey's writes with such precision, with such narrative control. He seamlessly folds more and more people into the narrative, expanding the worlds in which O and L live. And Oscar and Lucinda, such beautifully rendered misfits. It wasn't easy to follow their lives, but it was riveting.
OSCAR AND LUCINDA. (1988). Peter Carey. ***. This was Carey’s Booker Prize winning novel set – mostly – in Australia, although it takes a while to get there. Although he has been a long-time resident of the U.S., the books he writes based on his experiences in Australia, his native land, seem to be more alive than those using other countries as the backdrop. I suspect it is because of the almost infinite number of details that he seems to be able to drop into the story line that maintain the rea
In the edition I read, Oscar and Lucinda don’t really meet until about two-thirds of the way through the book.
The story of why a glass factory is the main feature of her own novella that proceeds this main plot, and involves the discovery of Prince Rupert’s drops.
Oscar’s story is told in his earlier novella, where he learns about his gambling ability.
The romance and adventure story that follows is very well done and well written and will keep the reader entertained for hours once he learns what Lucinda plans to do with her new glass construct.
The book is so exquisitely written and worked, the characters quite believable and Carey has a rare talent for writing believable and deeply explored female characters although male himself.
The book is so tragic, unfolds into layers and layers of ever bleaker despair but with touches of humanity that make you long for joy.Is it a true story?
Real love attempts to flower again and again and a thousand circumstances and the weakness of various characters stops it growing to fruition.I feel a bit depressed about the worldview in the book, I always feel that with Carey.
That review made me want to read some Carey, but I wanted to start with his most popular work which, according to GR ratings, is Oscar and Lucinda.
It started out a bit slow, but gained momentum as I read on, so I’m glad I stayed with it.
The writing is wonderful and the beautifully drawn, vivid and nuanced characters give new meaning to the word “quirky.” The book has a rather strange ambiance which resonates through its unexpected resolution unlike anything I think I’ve read before.
Oscar and Lucinda were pretty strange and at first, it was interesting to read about them. By the end, my interest was lukewarm as they never really became people that I could relate to in any way. I also found that life in ~1850s Australia as shown in this book was not very vivid to my mind.But I liked this more than most of the Booker Man Prize winners!
lucinda has a fond memory of glass and buys a glassworks factory with her inheritence.oscar has fond memories of 'truth' and seeks a path divined by god.they are both lonely, gamblers and meet on a boat.
Oscar and Lucinda isn't like any other historical novel I ever read.
It's mind-boggling in its richness, and the level of detail Carey manages.
I don't even mean historical detail (which is pitched really well to cast you right in the time and place) but the fictional detail (the complexity of people's lives, and I mean side characters here).
Carey forgets about nobody.
It is a witty, extraordinarily well-crafted, beautiful novel, which I might read again, just to fully absorb everything now that I won't be trying to race to the end to see how it all finishes.
From what I remembered, it seemed to be a story about two gamblers, brought together by a fantastical wager - to transport a glass church across unmapped Australian bush.
The glass church is the unraveling of this meticulously crafted book.
Even after the wager is made, I still enjoyed some parts of it - Mr. Ahearn calling Lucinda out on its failings, for example.
(view spoiler)[It's not Oscar's dying, but of him dying and Lucinda losing her glassworks at the same time, and by his hand.
I've considered giving this book a fifth star.
I also know I've given five stars to books that weren't nearly as well-written.
I suspect I'm being stingy with that final star because the book didn't keep me riveted.
Still, I will keep my final star.
This wasn't one of those books for me, but it is still an excellent read.
Had to come back and give this one its fifth star.
I think about it too much since finishing it and find I use it too much as a standard for judging other books I read to leave it as a four star-er.
3. What a wonderful novel.
It has gambling, religion, repression, and love.
I want to reread more books this year.
Less chasing of new things while still remaining current, but slowing down and experiencing books I said I loved to see if I still do.1.
I found a family copy of the book to re-read, but the cheap paper makes my sinuses hurt too much, so I'm buying a U.K. edition and will read it again.
I remember loving it so much, so I want to experience the whole thing again.

Peter Carey writes so brilliantly as far as prose and language is concerned, and I liked Parrot and Olivier in America, but even though my friends like this one, I did NOT like this book.
I wanted to like it due to the prose, but I did not like either protagonist.
I thought at first I was going to like Lucinda, but in the end, not enough to get me to enjoy this.
Had I read this about 10 years before it was published (impossible, naturally) I probably would have liked it better, but then it's hard to say for sure.
