https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/432324.Soldiers_Pay
I loved this book and would recommend it to anyone who adores powerful and poetic imagery. The plot of the story is a little bland, it's almost soap operaish, but the characters who drive the narrative are anything but your typical soap stars. They are real and engaging individuals and you find yourself amazed at how their plights tug at your heart. The skillful way in which Faulkner uses language to tell this story will impress even the least literary individual. If you are to read only one book this winter this should be it.
And there's a healthy dosage of humor sprinkled in, something else I'm not sure Faulkner is known for, so that was a pleasant surprise.I guess my biggest gripe is that the central story (who will marry Donald Mahon, the dying soldier the entire narrative hinges upon) isn't always that compelling, and there are a couple characters whose presence is never fully explained (none more so than Januarius Jones).But it works.
But if you want to get a taste of Faulkner without having to put in the heavy work that his future novels demand, Soldiers' Pay may be worth your time.On to Mosquitoes!
No entanto, esta primeira obra do escritor parece-me que tem algumas falhas na sua concepção.
É a condição física do primeiro que irá determinar o modo como as pessoas se relacionam com ele e entre si.
Ainda assim, considero que Faulkner falhou no modo como coloca este trio a conviver debaixo do mesmo teto.
Seria substituído por personagens que giram ao seu redor como a caprichosa e superficial Cecily, a fiel e resignada Emmy ou Jones , o stalker desta história.
Não percebo porque teve Mahon que desaparecer por completo.
O tema desta obra foi exposto magnificamente por Hemingway ou Fitzgerald .

It's always interesting to read a debut novel of such a big literary name.
Someone that stood a test of time and produced at least 4 novels (The Sound and the Fury, Light in August and As I Lay Dying, Absalom, Absalom) that are considered to be among absolute best of 20 century.
However Soldier's Pay proves that Faulkner worked his way to genius, as his debut has lots of flows and the merit doesn't really strike strongly enough through melodramatic plot.
William Faulkner's debut novel is a melodrama about World War I soldiers returning to a small town in Georgia, where the women they left behind struggle, like them, to put the pieces back together.
He sometimes loses track of the dramatic focus or occasionally uses dialogue to clarify characterizations that would henceforth be subtly suggested in subsequent novels.
Despite all that, Soldier's Pay speaks to the fledgling storyteller's auspicious brilliance, signaling tropes and themes Faulkner would explore more fully later on: like the mindset of the mentally incapacitated, the physical or psychological absence of pivotal characters, and the tense racial, religious, sexual, and moral undercurrents prevalent in the post-Civil War Deep South.
This early Faulkner novel was the first I've read by him, but I'll definitely go on to more.
I found the story moving, but the book really exerts a grip because of its writing style and intense, overheated atmosphere.
'Soldiers' Pay' can be confusing at times, as some of it is written in stream of consciousness, but you can feel the writer's intoxication with language, which makes it exciting to read.
As I read, I was aware that this was early and uneven work, with an intrusive "comic" character, Januarius Jones, getting in the way of the story at times.
Wow, two really good Faulkner books in a row (this and The Reivers) - I could get used to this!
Here we find one of Faulkner's earliest books, one free of the pomposity and obscurity of his later works and also one that offers some genuinely noble and likable characters.
Going into another WWI-themed novel, I admit was cringing a bit in fear that it would turn out to be another Fable, but not so.
Here, he gives a compelling and touching look at the men and women whose lives were touched - and more often than not, wrecked - by the war, and he does it with accessible depth and passion.
At its best when Faulkner is just himself, but much of the time it tries too hard to resonate. The dialogue is often particularly uncomfortable. Felt more like an old movie screenplay than anything else and it’s more interesting as Faulkner’s first novel than as a novel in itself. 2.75 stars.
Together with a 'long, black woman', they resolve to take him back to his home in Georgia.So a tableaux of characters is brought together to explore the emotions of loss and decline, with the notion that 'sex and death' are the front and back doors of all our existences.
Images of darkness and light weave through desciptions of the landscape, the personalities of the characters, the moods that penetrate all their interactions, and the great darkness and light that prevails right acoss the South - its white and black peoples.
Not sure if all the characters were completely successful - the appalling Janarious Jones being one.
Ain't war hell?
I ask you."----------------------It is jealousy, I think, which makes us wish to prevent young people doing the things we had not the courage or the opportunity ourselves to accomplish once, and have not the power to do now.
Women Know these things.
If they saw through us, they would never marry us."----------------------In war time one lives in today.
Yesterday is gone and tomorrow may never come.----------------------"Let me give you some advice," she continued sharply, "The next time you try to seduce anyone, don't do it with talk, with words.
Women know more about words than men ever will.
And they know how little they can ever possibly mean."
Faulkner's first published novel showcases what is clearly a preternatural style of prose — essentially poetry. Every paragraph is a jewel, and I found myself rereading whole chunks of descriptive, atmospheric, scene-setting sentences ALOUD. That aside, his characters are less wonderfully drawn. A lot of didactic dialogue and stagy situations in a small southern town as soldiers return home from the first World War.

To get to the bottom of that I had to read it twice and look up what all the adverbs meant.
In struggling through this book I was happiest with the moments where the prose took off--where from a basic description of the scene, Faulkner would seize onto the natural surroundings of a sleepy Georgia town and transform them into something approaching the religious.
Those moments of true lift-off and insight make me want to read every single book the man's ever written.
Though not as accomplished as his later novels, Soldiers' Pay still has moments of revelation, which reveal Faulkner willing to bend language to get at a feeling."They greeted him with the effusiveness of people who are brought together by invitation yet are not quite certain of themselves and of the spirit of the invitation; in this case the eternal country boys of one national mental state, lost in the comparative metropolitan atmosphere of one diametrically opposed to it.
To feel provincial: finding that a certain conventional state of behavior has become inexplicably obsolete over night."Like a rough house Proust.
The more moments like this I read, however, the better I felt.
Faulkner claimed to be a fighter pilot in WWI, although historical records make it seem as if he never saw action.
I think his fighter pilot fantasy was enfleshed in the Sartoris epics, while this story illuminates a war and homecoming still very fresh in young Faulkner's consciousness.
However, if one wants to just read some good early Faulkner, skip ahead to "Sartoris"/"Flags in the Dust" ("Flags in the Dust" is the complete novel as Faulkner wrote it, while "Satoris" is the edited-for-publication version which was released, as perhaps the literary world was not yet ready for the hyperextended Faulkner vision.) Are we ready now??
While Faulkner is redundant while describing nature, his description of Donald's health's decay is fascinating and quite chilling.
Faulkner lets these things simmer in the background while he draws attention to lives of people who are directly affected by it.
Some of the experiences seems visceral and Donald, at times, is designed to voice Faulkner directly.
This change in Donald's tone is evident to give a whiplash affecting the reading process.
Faulkner uses colloquial language as a tool to add flavor to this haunting story.
I quite enjoyed the run-of-the-mill story but was left impressed with Faulkner's writing.
But the real reason I love this book is after I read it, I approached a professor who was a fairly well respected Faulkner scholar and asked her why she felt Faulkner had switched who the lead character was a third of the way through this novel.
She gave me a few scholarly reasons that had been hypothesized over the years and then say "Or maybe because he was a young writer working on his first novel he f*cked up".
Faulkner's first novel is surprisingly good.
It's obviously a first novel, and it has some problems (notably, some pronoun issues in the first chapter, and some unsubtle artiness), but does contain a compelling plot and some extraordinarily beautiful writing in some parts.
He was obviously influenced by Pound and Eliot, and his early roots in painting show up to good effect here.
Chapter Five, with its caustic response to Fitzgerald's early work is terrific.
The racial element is a tad disturbing, but also more progressive than one might expect, and he delves into class differences to a certain extent.
An interesting and compelling read.
It tells of the girl he left behind, who has now had second thoughts about him, and a woman who wants to marry him.
It has echoes of the greatest of Faulkner, but it seems to me he was searching for a voice in the book and didn't quite find it.
He was very much influenced by the stream of consciousness people, who were working about the time he wrote it and that takes away slightly from his true voice.
If you want to read Faulkner, and I plan to read or reread all of him, this is a good place to start.
Ah, Faulkner!
It's been a while since I read a book by Faulkner just for enjoyment.
What a master!
This is not one of his most well known books--it reads more like popular fiction, with characters not quite as well drawn as some of his other works.
But there's the drama of the wounded hero, but beautiful woman who can't make up her mind, the loyal friends.
Though this isn't strictly a "war novel," there are glimpses of war scenes and some about the effects of the war both on soldiers and on those at home.
A really nice summer read!
I might be a bit too harsh toward this, but it feels all the more frustrating to me because there's plenty to like about it, but all that is buried underneath a lot of melodramatic and overwrought crap. The central story of a disabled, dying war veteran that no one knows what to do with is compelling. But here, Faulkner can't seem to actually tell that story, because he gets bogged down with what feel like a million uninteresting side stories. It's interesting as his first novel but that's about it.
It's Faulkner, what more needs to be said? Ok, its soldiers returning from war on a train."What can equal a mother’s love? Except a good drink of whiskey"Thats bourbon, by the way not scotch or irish whisky."The saddest thing about love too is that not only the love cannot last for ever, but even the heartbreak is soon forgotten."
Hell, just gonna give this book a 5. The language was insane. I felt immersed in deep Southern tradition right? Id quote some of it but I'm on a phone right now.I have decided that this book is not a 5 on further review.
Jesus, what a mess.
OK, but SOLDIER'S PAY was Faulkner's first novel, and it's still excellent, so he might be excused from accusations of "unlikely combinations".
You can criticize this novel, but it's still better than most of the stuff that was written then or now either.A badly-wounded soldier is returning home from WW I to Georgia by train.
and a certain Gilligan, wise beyond his years and wise guy as well---decide that they must make sure the soldier, Donald Mahon, gets home safely.
Meanwhile, the wounded soldier's fiancée, a weak reed named Cecily, is, like "Runaround Sue", going out with all the guys.
Faulkner made it clear that a soldier gets paid nothing for his efforts in war.
Men are not the only ones who fight: Faulkner champions the fortitude and direct honesty of women, even as they are flawed and suffering, but not as much as the men in this novel.
His presentation of women and the objectification and sexualization they face is quite feminist.
Even in his critiques of the flighty character Cecily, Faulkner shows the complex challenges she has to face.
Her dependency on men is critiqued not only in itself, but in the fact that men do not live up the valorous standards they are supposed to uphold in war.
I try to write fiction of my own from time to time and after scratching out a page or two, I read some Faulkner and then feel like I need to put my own work in the shredder.
His first published work was Soldiers' Pay. As you get to know Faulkner and his style by reading later works such as As I Lay Dying, Absalom, Absalom and others, you will get a true appreciation of how his craft advanced from this rougher, first book.
It is a novel of the "Lost Generation" following World War I.
The main focus is on Donald Mahon, a pastor's son war aviator who has suffered a horrific disfiguring and disabling head injury, as he returns home in the company of a colleague and a widow who have taken to caring for him.
Highly recommended for anyone who likes Faulkner or the literature of World War I.
William Faulkner's Soldiers' Pay is the first novel (1926) published by its author.
Like many novels written in the immediate aftermath of the Great War, it is somewhat brittle and artificial.
Yet it is recognizably Faulkner, and as such, it was worth the effort.Airman Lieut.
Donald Mahon comes back to Georgia horribly wounded, with a large scar on his forehead.
We meet a number of the other townspeople, such as the fat young satyr Januarius Jones, the Mahon's servant Emmy, George Farr (who wants Cecily), an a handful of others.
Is Soldiers' Pay worth reading if one doesn't like Faulkner to begin with?
