https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99383.Blood_Rites
Stick a fork in me, folks…I’m done. My relationship with the Dresden Files has officially hit rock bottom. This is one review I've been dreading to write, both because A LOT of my friends passionately love these books, and because there are so many aspects of the series that are praise-worthy and enjoyable. The world-building is terrific, the magic system is well constructed, and there are host of likeable supporting characters, such as Thomas, Kincaid, Bob, Michael, Ebenezer...just to name a fe
Over time, this has bothered me more and more and has finally reached the point of “too much.” On at least two occasions in this novel (once with Thomas and once with Ebenezer), Harry gets a major judgmental on when someone reveals themselves to be less than stainless in the virtue department.
Thus, as much as I regret all of the clever, interesting world-building and magical marvels I’ll be missing in the subsequent Dresden books, I just think the hurdles to my enjoyment have become too high….and too mighty.2.5 stars.
This series keeps getting better along the way, but sometimes it tends to feel like it has a routine.No money.
Saved the day.That's the particular routine of The Dresden Files, and it's slowly starting to get boring.
Sure I like reading about Dresden, but I also need something huge that would make me want to read on.
That was my problem with the fifth book, but this one had a few great moments.We all love a good plot twist, or a revelation that we didn't see coming.
While this one is among the good ones of the series, it was still a bit underwhelming.
In this entry in The Dresden Files, the vampire Thomas asks Harry to help his friend, an adult film maker.
It had the potential to lead to lethally unhealthy decisions." pg 17As usual, Harry can't seem to get his life together long enough to get anything done.
Is that insane or what?" pg 93We learn a lot more about Harry's personal life in this story."The hardest lesson a wizard has to learn is that even with so much power, there are some things you can't control.
The Red Court are the more demon like, less human in reality but powerful and able to disguise themselves.
These are the succubi and incubi, the most human like and the ones who feed off emotions and life force.And can party like porn stars.Besides these fun descriptions and some cool recurring characters and some amusing new ones, Butcher also adds depth to his characterizations and further develops the characters, particularly Harry, Thomas and Karrin Murphy.
That lack of funds always ends up getting him in trouble, whether because of the jobs he takes to get some cash or because he ends up owing some sketchy people money.This book opens with Dresden rescuing puppies from demonic purple flying monkeys.
Butcher writes an entertaining story, but when he’s trying to bring plot points together things just fall apart for some reason.
I can see where Butcher is trying to go with the story, and I can follow what he’s getting at, but the writing itself doesn’t convey the plot twists in any kind of concise manner.
I thought this was a brilliant way to handle it though, where you get Harry's sense of humor through his dialogue mostly, his thoughts as well of course, but a seriousness that anchors the narrative because Harry still lives in a world of scary monsters.I hope any of that made some remote bit of sense.Anyhow, Blood Rites gets back into the vampires (they seem to be a pretty regular fall back for Butcher) and that makes sense because the set up has been an all-out war between vampires and wizards.
My guilty pleasure reading is the Harry Dresden series, featuring Chicago’s only professional wizard. Butcher has the first-person hardboiled narrator voice down pat, and throws out one-liners and rock ‘em sock ‘em action with equal abandon. Harry Dresden’s world gets increasingly complicated in this book with new allies and new enemies, and I’m glad I went back and started at the beginning of the series. This book, like the rest of the series, offers a wild ride and lots of fun.
Rereading with the Lobster. :)
[4.5 Stars]
Book Twenty-four[image error]Blood Rites by Jim Butcher"Hell's Bells" count: 19 [1:]As far as I know, The Dresden Files is an open-ended series that Butcher will continue to write until he decides to end it, which is fine with me.
Can't go wrong with all that, and if Butcher wants to just keep putting out Dresden books every eighteen months or so, I'll happily keep buying them.One of the dangers of such a plan, however, is stagnation - you end up rehashing similar plot points, perhaps throwing in a few twists and turns, but never really advancing the plot because, well, you don't know where the plot is going.
Many gave up on the series after Blood Rites and I can see why... No, it wasn't Harry that I had problems with (I'm actually quite loving his chivalrous tendencies). Nor was it the porn movie plot or the inconsistencies. It's just so... predictable . Not the plot, but the structure. Each book has all of the following:- 1. There is a main case that, eventually, threatens the general public, so Harry gets hired to solve it. (view spoiler)[(Book 4 - the two fairy courts going to war, Book 5 - the p
(view spoiler)[(Book 4 - the two fairy courts going to war, Book 5 - the plague, Book 6 - the curse that's killing random women )  (hide spoiler)]- 2.
There is an "unrelated to the main-case" villain who is targeting Harry, specifically.
How come Harry has to save the world every book and nobody is like: Hey, this guy's pretty useful!
. I don't feel like the story is progressing or heading in any specific direction.
Or maybe I'm wrong and the series has a very clear direction that I'm unable to see, please feel free to share.
Nevertheless, I like Harry Dresden.
I've been enjoying this series thus far, but this installment really brought it! The porn star murder mystery had barrel-of-laughs written all over it, doubly so with Harry Dresden on the case. BLOOD RITES put a lot of the characters' roles into perspective; Murphy tries being a vigilante on for size, Ebenezar is not what he seems, and Thomas—I did NOT see that one coming. This book was a turning point for THE DRESDEN FILES, and... PUPPIES!
There's a lot less sex in this book than you would expect from a story involving porn stars, porn filmmakers and incubi and succubi running around all over the place, but I enjoyed the wackiness of the setting, and Butcher treated the porn stars like actual characters rather than giving in to the tempting impulse to portray them as nothing more than their jobs (although I do think he was a bit naive about the whole porn thing, if I'm being honest about it).
Best of the series so far!rtc
Despite the fact that this book needed an editor to point out places where the character gets up from a chair twice in the same paragraph without ever sitting down again or when he eats 3 breakfasts at three different places while seeing a doctor at the last minute between the last two (er, what time is breakfast at the last place?) without ever even mentioning he was full...
Okay I'm going to pause there and add a period because even though that isn't a complete sentence, it's too dang long.Anyway, despite that, Blood Rites is another great tale from Butcher.
It was a pretty good romp in many ways, but I was highly ticked off my numerous logical flaws, especially around the middle of the book.
Power is out in the city - a big deal is made out of this & the plot is hinging on it - but Harry & Billy take the elevator.
A few paragraphs later, a big deal is made out of Harry having to walk up steps due to no power.
These are major logical flaws that just slam an otherwise decent book & they're nothing but sloppy.
I fricking love Jim Butcher. I love Harry Dresden, I love Karrin Murphy, I love Thomas Raith. I love Mister and Mouse, Bob and Ebenezer, and every single thing about this series!:)
This time he helps out a white vampire "friend," Thomas, after saving a bunch of puppies, Tibetian temple dogs, for a Tibetian monk.
Someone is trying to kill Arturo Genosa's stars and Dresden is hired to find out who is doing the killing and stop it.
Also in this story, the Red Court vampires still want Dresden dead.
The Black Court is actively working to kill him and although Thomas is his friend sometimes, the White Court isn't really too friendly either.
Perhaps not the book to jump into first.
It is one that relies on the previous books to establish much of the story.
A well-done book in the series.
Like the previous books of the series it's pretty exciting.
Dresden gets tangled in several threatening problems.
He gets really beat up and I feel bad for him.
This book is a little off than the previous three books of the series.
I feel that it's too melodramatic.
But when I see some possibilities between the most badass man and woman of the series I get really excited.
And at the end there is a very clear indication of several haunting past coming back and it will get a Dresden fan excited to continue the series.
By the time you come up for breath you realise you’ve read a massive chunk of the book and the story is well on the way.Harry is drawn into an investigation onto an adult film set to try and work out why certain women are being targeted and killed on the set.
The second half of the book is more complex and draws on the previous novels for back-story and gives Harry a different kind of enemy to battle and adds further layers to the world and characters in it.
3.25 ✭ I just can't go higher for a book/series that continues to depress me.
etc.In BR, his semi-friend/white vampire, Thomas, asks him for a favor; there is a death curse involved.
Being broke and all...Harry takes the job and ends up undercover on an adult movie set.
Beyond stopping a nasty curse that has killed more than once, he's decided to go on the offensive with the Black vampire Mavra (from previous book).
I haven't decided if I'm continuing with the series.
I like UF, I like Harry and I like Butcher's writing, but I don’t like when the reads are such a downer.
To clarify, the earlier books are not bad, but you can see the finer details and effort that Jim Butcher puts into this book.The Dresden Files do seem to have a formula to them.
I know these early books were the first published works that Butcher had to his name and I knew that I really like his other work (Codex Alera is probably in my top 5 favorite series) so I powered through the earlier books in hopes that the things that I love about his writing would shine through.The differences between this book and the first 5 are subtle.
And I liked it more this time.Review from first reading:Plenty of wonderful Harry lines, as well as great interaction between Harry and Murphy and Harry and Thomas, plus now there’s a puppy (!).
I like how Murphy has grown as a character.
I like the suggestion that Thomas may be able to overcome the dark side of his nature; as it is, he can control himself better than other members of the White Court.
It’s clear that Butcher is fully aware of what he’s doing, what conventions he’s tweaking; he even uses a line from Empire Strikes Back when Harry is accusing Thomas of lying about the family connection.
5 Stars!Loved this one! Lots of Lt. Murphy, which is always a plus, there's plenty of action, humor and secrets about Harry's family are revealed. It was emotional for him and for me. This wizard has captured my heart! James Marsters...delicious narration!
And, it kind of reminded me of the Leeroy Jenkins story, but better.There are some vampires from the black court and they are nasty killers who will take Harry out and kill a lot of innocent people.
So, Harry decides to get Murphy and that scary mercenary guy, Kincaid, from the last book, and the three of them will go into the vampire nest during the day and kill them all.
In this story, Harry is asked to take a job doing bodyguard work on the set of a porn movie.
I have learned why Dresden, the book series, has garnered so many fans.
Jim Butcher will never kill his main characters, will never stop writing overlong climaxes, will keep on making brilliant jokes, but as long as he is not jaded and not too drunk on his success, I'll be a distant follower, though not a genuine fan.
What I wanted to say was that Jim Butcher was inspired for this book.
Now I'm going to mention my favorite character of the series; step forward Karrin Murphy.
4.5 Stars Blood Rites is the best Harry Dresden book so far.
I have really enjoyed the series up to this point and let it be known that Butcher and Dresden were the only ones keeping me even the slightest bit interested in the Urban Fantasy genre.This book is a book about curses, vampires, and blood lines.
Blood Rites is a simple story about Harry trying to protect a movie studio from a series of deadly curses.
As with all of the Dresden Files it is the magic of Butcher's story telling that make these must reads.
Executive Summary: Mr. Butcher ramps things up with this story, and continues to break away from the formulaic style of the previous novels.Audio book: Nothing really of note for this book, although James Marsters does get to try his hand at a Greek accent, which to me sounded pretty good. At this point in the series, I can't imagine anyone else reading it. Full Review So for me, the turning point for the series starts with the last book Death Masks, but if that one didn't impress you, this one
So for me, the turning point for the series starts with the last book Death Masks, but if that one didn't impress you, this one should.
(Any of you who have read past this book, should understand that, any of you haven't will just have to scratch your heads).It's getting harder to write these reviews in my normal spoiler-free fashion, or at least without discussing spoilers from previous books.
Dresden's cohort, a petit barely 5 foot tall cop (I know, I know) wasn't spared.
It got to the point where it was just plain icky and I had to skip over a number of scenes, particularly the one where the cop, due to completely silly circumstances, is forced to take off her pants during a fight and phrases such as 'standing in her panties holding a shotgun' are used over and over and over.Frankly, most of this book read like the author's unusually detailed wet dream.
But if you're a fan of the Dresden Files, I highly recommend skipping this particular entry.
The story just flowed smoothly and James Marsters has the audio narration down pat making for an overall enjoyable reading/listening experience.This book we learn more about Harry’s past and more about his family, his mother in particular.
Kincaid returns as gun for hire and plays a somewhat larger role than he did last book making for some badass action sequences.
And I hadn’t realised how much I missed Murphy since the first two books until now where she gets a lot more air time since then.Anyway, this story, Harry takes on a case for Thomas that sees him go undercover in a porno shoot.
