https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/845129.Black_Wings_Has_My_Angel
After my own experience with Elliott Chaze's noir black angel, feeling its dramatic intensity and living through every single page with narrator Tim Sunblade and his beautiful babe Virginia, the slender, poised gal with skin the color of pearls melted in honey, I couldn’t agree more.
But when you see the really good ones, you know the things you read and heard where a lot of trash." Although we discover Tim’s real name along the way, no compelling reason to mention it here since Tim would like nothing more than to shove his past identity in an incinerator, watch it go up in smoke and be done with it forever.
She was scooping up handfuls of the green money and dropping it on top of her head so that it came sliding down along the cream-colored hair, slipping down along her shoulders and body.
That finished me for the day, but I remember I hung on until he reached my thumb, and I thought as I floated off into the screaming pain and grayness that if I had taken this much of it I could take whatever else there was, without talking, and that maybe I’d be stronger, strong enough to butt the brains out of my head on the stone walls.”I had a real physical reaction to a lot of the action in this book.
Black Wings Has ("hath") My AngelYou don't read this story, you live it.This is a masterpiece of noir, a work of art, it is literature not pulp, a modern greek tragedy, a tale of life and love and hunger and fear which comes from the deepest heart of the author, Elliott Chaze.
Tiny golden threads between our hearts are drawing us together, while our black wings plot betrayal, greed, and fear.....I live this life.
And my black wings beat against hers as I struggle with the golden threads of love and life, but the greed drives me, makes me feel alive, energises me and her, compels us both.
Kudos, then, to the folks at Stark House who have reprinted the book in a new edition, along with One Is a Lonely Number, by Bruce Elliott.The story is narrated by a man who’s initially calling himself Tim Sunblade.
Through the early part of the book, we watch the two travel cross country and make the necessary preparations for the crime they intend to commit.
As my friend, William Johnson, has suggested, this is a book that you feel rather than simply read.My only reservation has to do with the crime itself.
It was originally published back in 1953 and is considered to be a ‘lost classic’, a book that is not necessarily well known to mainstream noir audiences, but is now considered to be one of the best crime novels written in the prime of pulp fiction.
Its reputation has become almost mythic, apparently, but I had never heard of it, so as a collector and lover of noir crime novels I began to search for a copy.
For fans of pulp fiction or noir this book is almost a textbook example of those genres, and may put you in mind of Jim Thompson, in some ways.
We passed what must have been some kind of club, and there were limber-legged young kids on a strip of fine clay, stroking brand-new white tennis balls with a beautiful laziness, their expensively coached strokes almost insolent.
They beat the ball as if they were killing a snake.“It’s funny,” she said to me, “they can be playing the same game and yet an altogether different one.
I’m going to strip down buck naked and bathe in cool green hundred-dollar bills.”“You said again.”“Did I?” she asked it teasingly.Trigger warning for violence against women, although taken as whole there's plenty of violence to go around.
the bellhop had me all wrong, that what I wanted was a big stupid commercial blob of a woman; not a slender poised thing with skin the color of pearls melted in honey."And how he describes the time period after she finally seems to love him, swimming in an icy river..
I promise, though, that if you knew Virginia she would precisely be this way.Anybody who has spent time in Cripple Creek, Colorado or New Orleans or the Mississippi Gulf Coast will get an extra kick out of this.
I guess I'll always remember the first time I saw her, standing there in the half-gloom of the corridor, with the country-town bellhop dressed like an organ-grinder's monkey, almost leaning against her, smirking."She's a looker, ain't she, Bub?" For some reason, the meeting between Tim (an oil-rig worker) and Virginia (a cheap hooker in a small town) made me think of Roger Vadim's "Et Dieu ...
Tim is running from prison, working hard jobs to save money for the perfect heist one of his inmates had planned before being gunned down by the prison guards.
As I am fond of saying, plot isn't always everything in a good crime novel, and Elliot Chaze's Black Wings Has My Angel is a great case in point.
Reading it, I knew that happy endings probably weren't in the cards for either Tim or Virginia; I knew something terrible was coming down the pike, and I once again had that feeling of watching an unavoidable, inevitable train wreck, unable to look away.
When it comes to noir crime fiction, Black Wings Has My Angel is a cult classic.
Timothy Sunblade is an escaped convict, a car thief, and a war veteran with a permanent head injury, which has left him somewhat unstable.
After meeting Virginia, a “ten-dollar tramp” turned complicated femme fatale, the two damaged lovers then travel west in a blue Packard convertible, scheming to pull off an armored car heist in Denver, that is, unless Tim doesn't first decide to ditch Virginia somewhere along the way.
Black Wings Has My Angel is darker than noir.
This is a dark book, sort of like a more gritty version of the film True Romance, and it's a well-written classic noir that manages to keep a balance of darkness and light to create a beautiful if not at times depressing story.
In a pulp novel like this I was expecting cliche writing, but nope, Chaze is very poetic and impressive in his usage of not just vocabulary, but also how vividly he paints his characters and allows them to fall a bit out of their conventional roles.
“If you’ve got the money, I’ve got the time”—Lefty Frizzell song Timothy/Kenneth and Virginia/Jennie singThis is a deliciously wicked (and I guess recently rediscovered or re-appreciated) noir story published in 1953 from a guy I had never heard of about a vet just escaped from prison who picks up a prostitute and takes her on the road.
God knows I'm an authority on tramps." And Virginia, to Tim: "You move around like a damned tormented tomcat and your eyes aren't right.
She didn’t know I was alive.”Over the top noir writing.
Melancholy drips from the pages and you just know from page one onwards that this story will end in regret and misery.
It is not a story about a private detective a la Raymond Chandler, but about a guy escaped from jail.
He has a plan which he worked out in detail in jail and is determined to bring to a good end.
Bad ending, not a cop and robber story as such, more the recounting of a crime and the unromantic love story of Tim, the protagonist, and the shapely, but deadly Virginia.
Tim is not that sort of guy.
:)The tagline really captured the tone of this hardcore noir, about a convict on the lam named Tim, who spends what was supposed to be one lovely night with a sexy, money-hungry call-girl named Virginia, but which turns into a three-night long love-making session.
Afterwards, they're joined at the hip, as she accompanies him across the country and on a heist that could take them both down a fast-lane to easy money, or on a highway to hell.One really interesting thing about the novel was how volatile Tim and Virginia's relationship was from the very beginning.
Damn good writing!
Then you really hear it and know what it is and understand that the man who invented it was no man, but a fiend from hell who patched together sounds and blends of sounds in a way that could paralyze and sicken.
You will hear it until you die." Also, "Baby, just about anywhere you die there's somebody watching.
It doesn't make any difference whether they're watching you die in bed or in a chair, somebody's going to be there.
"A rousing good take on bad uns on the run, there's quite a few twists and turns along the rollicking ride too.
The real deal! You can almost smell the gunpowder wafting up from every page.
Musical accompaniment: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qJppsc...I love thunderstorms.
There is something sinister about thunderstorms, but also something magical.
The gratitude I feel for my shelter.
The wonder of nature, that I can experience the terror of the storm and yet at the same time feel so safe.
What do thunderstorms have to do with this book you ask?
And of course there’s the tragedy in the air…No, this isn’t great literature and yes at times the writing is god awful and yes there are dozens upon dozens of ridiculous typos but the thing is, I really didn’t care.
Neither character is who they appear and both are running from a past that haunts them.The writing and style for this novel is deceptively simple but it's a novel that does pack quite a wallop and stays with you long after the last page is turned.
It's one of those novels that you know isn't going to end well but you can't stop reading, just waiting for the train wreck to happen.There is violence in the novel, it's certainly not politically correct but I don't think that I've come across such finely wrought and developed characters in a long time.
Until recently I could count my top pulp novels on one hand even though that hand is missing a finger.
That list included:The Postman Always Rings TwicePop. 1280A Rage in HarlemBuild My Gallows HighNow, though, I need to use the hand that has all five fingers.
I have never read anything by Elliott Chaze, haven't even heard of him before, but he wrote one humdinger of a story, even if the title does sound like something created by Yoda.
Kenneth is an escaped con with plans for a big score.
Glom yourself a copy of this book and read it today.
This 1953 title is generally acknowledged to be Mr. Chaze's tour de force and a masterpiece in hardboiled/noir crime fiction.
I kept wanting to say the awkward title as My Angel Has Black Wings.
Anyway, I'm not going to rehash the plot.
Tim Sunblade plans and jacks an armored truck (he calls it a "car") with his high class call girl Virginia in Denver.
Tim and Virginia, both greedy and jaded, carry on a tumultuous relationship funded by their rich haul.
I'd love to know what thoughts bubbled inside her brain, but Tim is telling us their tale.
Have you ever experienced vertigo? That sick sensation of gravity itself trying to suck you off the edge of the world into a bottomless abyss? That's what reading this was like. I still feel off-balance from it. FANTASTIC ending!This was a grower for me even after it ended. 4 stars plus an extra star for that ending equals 5 stars. I hope to write a better review at some point. This one deserves it.
What a noire classic! This one's lit not pulp. You will feel this to your core. Powerful, visual and twisty. There's even a nice little scene with five journalists sitting in a bar. Amusing as hell, but it makes me regret seeing the demise of so many of those fellows just to be replaced with enews. This hardboiled tale is also a great love story. This goes to my top shelf.
You'll see the outlines of the end pretty much from the beginning, but it's the details that really make it shine (in, y'know, a really dark way).
Chaze's prose is sharp and vivid and sensual, and at times surprisingly poetic ("skin that looked like pearls melted in honey").
Even the secondary characters are three dimensional and interesting ("Eddie wore a green canvas rainhat everywhere he went, even with formal clothes, and he looked like an exhausted cat peering out from under a collard leaf.").
(I only wish we got to know as much of her story as we do of his.)
The best of the hopeless hardboiled noir heist-novels.Way up there with the best of the best hardboiled greats: Charles Williams, David Goodis, Jim Thompson.Pitiless and gripping.Dead beat dread that drips like moisture from a clammy cavern wall.Action packed yet layered in several coats of suffocating suspense... two losers who can't keep themselves from tickling Fate's low hanging fruit. To quote my favorite Bob Dylan lines: "Waiting to find out what price/You have to pay to get out of/Going through all these things twice".The absolute utmost noir fiction has to offer.
Fucking and crime are the basis of all classic noir, and clearly the novel, "Black Wings Has My Angel," has that in spades.
A man against a system or himself, and falling for his weakness or the power of the sexual pull.
It's a classic premise for a crime narrative, and Chaze's novel is another example of that shadowy world.
The peaks of heaven are always cash in the pocket and the sexual urge being satisfied.
The beauty of "Black Wings" is that it is written beautifully and there is a tinge of real sadness that comes with the despair.
In 2013, Elliott Chaze’s Black Wings Has My Angel reads like a compendium of noir clichés.
This is a partial list: our narrator/antihero—a WWII vet with a permanent head injury who has a mutually abusive relationship with a hooker turned femme fatale—is straight out of Jim Thompson; the armored car heist could come from Richard Stark; the sadistic smalltown cops might have wandered in from Cornell Woolrich; and the novel’s intentionally telegraphed sense of doom could be channeled from David Goodis or Gil Brewer or any of a dozen other Gold Medal novelists.
But here’s the thing: Black Wings Has My Angel was published in 1953, before these things had become noir clichés (and when Richard Stark was still nine years away from publishing his first book).
One of the sleaziest crime novels ever written, hard to beat. This one has swinging couples in New Orleans banging on carpets of smashed-in caramel chocolates, a man stripped naked and tortured on top of a cop cruiser with burning cigars, an armored car guard in his seventies gutted from head to toe, etc. By the time I was done I felt so filthy I sprayed myself with a bottle of 409 and scrubbed my anus with a bar of Lava industrial soap. Recommended.
I don`t usually read mystery or crime novels, but somewhat this novel got my attention. And i`m happy it did. It`s nothing like modern works I usually meet. Though there isn't really a mystery, Chaze`s ability to tell a story keeps the reader focused and intrigued throughout the entire experience, wondering where will he lead us to. The ending was a little anti-climaxing and foolish for my taste, but it didn't really affect the positive experience iv`e gotten from reading it.
I don`t usually read mystery or crime novels, but somewhat this novel got my attention. And i`m happy it did. It`s nothing like modern works I usually meet. Though there isn't really a mystery, Chaze`s ability to tell a story keeps the reader focused and intrigued throughout the entire experience, wondering where will he lead us to. The ending was a little anti-climaxing and foolish for my taste, but it didn't really affect the positive experience iv`e gotten from reading it.
Excellent hardboiled thriller that definitely lived up to its reputation.
A very similar tone to THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE, where the tragedy is in the couple's meeting, their demise inevitable from the moment they set eyes on each other.Very violent and as frank about sex as the era would allow.
But, the real strength of the book is in the writing.
His metaphors are fluid with all that hardboiled fun, yet they never call attention to themselves.
The writing draws you in and keeps you there.A great book that deserves to considered as one of the great crime novels of the 1950s.
I don't have the proper words to express how much I enjoyed this little black book. All I can say is should you come across it, grab and read it, even if it is not something you usually read. I am not a reader of "crime noir", but man Chaze can paint a lovely picture and an engrossing story with a few sparse words and just a few characters. As the Oracle newspaperman said in the bar "you write yourself a novel and you get so many characters in it you can't keep up with them".
