https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660278.Poison_in_the_Pen
This was my second Miss Silver mystery - I read it for a classic crime project that I am working, based on Martin Edward's rather excellent The Story of Classic Crime in 100 Books.
The only other Miss Silver mystery I've read was the first book in the series Grey Mask: A Miss Silver Mystery, which I did not like so well as this one.
I liked this one quite a bit better than Grey Mask.
I'm intimidated by the number of books in the series, though, and I'm not sure that I want to take on the Miss Silver oevre in its entirety!
I have actually now read the majority of the Miss Silver books.
Her character's motives, methods and behaviors are much more realistic than any of Wentworth's.Miss Silver books are the "Harlequin" romance novel variety as they are written to a standard formula and a standard length.Even making allowances for the time they were written the characters are all weak.
But you know in the last 20 pages the person they are about to arrest is the wrong one and by the third to last page Miss Silver will have revealed the real killer.
Funny, this is the first book in the series that actually gives a hint of what is to come between 2 of the characters. Now I'm wondering if the elusive and debonair Frank Abbott will finally succumb to some young woman's charms.My final book read in 2017.
Poison in the Pen (Miss Silver #29), Patricia Wentworth
Unexpectedly dark. Very good studies of characters.
The little village of Tilling Green is harboring a very nasty person, a poison-pen writer who is sending notes to folks in town.
These books are more about people than anything else, as Miss Silver solves her mysteries by listening to people (who easily find themselves unburdening themselves to her sympathetic ear), and by then anticipating their actions through her knowledge of human behavior, much like Miss Marple.
A good story studying how gossip and innuendo spreads like wildfire, and how much damage one person with an evil bent and a pen can do.
This one isn't one of my favorites...a little boring. Lots of gossipy ladies in a small village. Here's a hint: pay attention to the early introduction to the people in the village. I was determined to finish the book because I wanted to know who the culprit was. The Miss Silver stories are more long winded than Miss Marple stories. Both give a look back to the culture of those times. In some ways, that culture made life simpler and in other ways, it made life more difficult.
Early Bird Book Deal | Fairly good, but anonymous letters are so unpleasant that they make the reading less enjoyable | I was a bit distracted at the beginning of this, so I never got too connected to the characters, and was a bit annoyed at having Jason and James, Maggie and Mettie to keep track of. Just as I don't often re-read Christie's The Moving Finger, because the spite of the letters is so ugly and nasty, there was much here I wanted to keep away from.
I think it's time for me to give up on this series. I just find it all so bloodless and formulaic, with the old lady knitting and playing amateur detective, the gossipy characters, and the young couple surmounting obstacles to their love. Not as fiendishly clever as Christie's plots, not as entertaining as Marsh's, not as colorful and eccentric as Brand's characters and so on. I love me a good poison-pen mystery but this just seemed tedious and predictable.
Thoroughly enjoyable!Another Miss Silver mystery which held me to the end. I had my suspicions, and they held true. But I must have missed the explanation about David and the cupboard. Was he there? Probably not. Found some editing misses. Overall, the Poison in the Pen was another enjoyable mystery.
I kept checking the publication date on this mystery. It seemed awfully dated for a copyright date of 1954. Then I looked up the author's birth date. 1877. Ok this explains the rather formal, mannerly language.That said, I found the book delightful with a particular mastery of the chat of nosy and talkative villagers.
This was one of the more difficult Miss Silver books to get into — it felt like about 12 characters were introduced off-screen in the first two chapters, and I started and re-started this several times in audiobook and ebook form. But it was fun once it got going, and the ending involves a bit more action for Miss Silver than usual. (It felt very Nancy Drew.)
I feel like I have just come from a quaint English village. And Miss Silver was a hero in this book. She did a lot more than just knit. So fun!
I loved this old-fashioned mystery and the slowly unfolding plot.
Nice cozy little cozy.
I selected this book because of the favorable comparisons to Christie's Miss Marple series, but was quite disappointed. The book lacks the clever plotting and character development found in Christie. It was easy to determine early on who was writing the poison pen letters, and then it because increasingly frustrating to read on and on with no one else picking up on the clues. By the time the guilty party was identified and apprehended, I was just glad that the book was finally finished.
In the first half they just had to talk about the same incident in details over and over again until I memorized by heart some details that finished being interesting 3 chapters ago.
It dragged on about some woman dying by going through nearly all the women in the village on their explanation of the same incident repeated.
The story of Valentine interested me, just because it didn't repeat itself so much.
Overall a good read if you like the old British culture and style of writing and is a big fan of detective stories.
Also if you don't mind listening to women talk about each other throughout the whole book.
Every now and then you have to take an armchair visit to an English village where the people know all about each other.
And sometimes the person who knows the most, sends poison pen letters to their unwitting victims.
Who are you going to call to solve this mystery?
This is the first book I have read by Patricia Wentworth but I will be checking out some more of this series at the library.
I enjoy a good cozy mystery and while this story moved a bit slowly, I was not sure of the writer/ murderer until the last pages of the book.
Good read for fans of classic Golden Age mysteries. The sleuth, Miss Silver, is very like Jane Marple (although at this point in the series, she is a professional, NOT an amateur), without the twinkling eyes and good sense of humor. The story was lucid, the writing clear, the clues fair. There are lots of books in the series, this one was number 29!!! The narrator was fairly good at discriminating the voices. I'd recommend it in audio or written form. Easy summer book for reading with ears or eyes!
Scurrilous anonymous letters cause a suicide in a small English village, but the letters keep on coming. Private investigator and former governess Miss Silver goes undercover to investigate at the request of a friend. I confess-not to the crime—but to enjoying the picture of life in an English village, with the squire in the big house, the vicar in the parsonage, and women's groups gathering to gossip and sew. Everyone knows everything about everyone, except who hides their deep malice and hatred under an everyday face.
When a mysterious suicide follows an outbreak of poison pen letters in the quiet village of Tilling Green, Miss Silver is asked by Scotland yard to investigate. Miss Silver is their 'secret weapon'! She pulls out her knitting and people just seem to relax and tell her everything! Three people fall victim to this demented killer before Miss Silver is able to put together the clues and bring another killer to justice. This was a very enjoyable read with well thought out characters and plot. Very satisfying read.
A delightful classic British whodunit that reminded quite a bit of Agatha Christie's Miss Marple series. Both Agatha Christie and Patricia Wentworth are from the same era, and Miss Marple and Miss Silver are both elderly British ladies who solve mysteries. This particular book even took place in a small village! Additionally, like Agatha Christie, Patricia Wentworth writes with an astute eye for observing the everyday quirks and behaviors of people. Miss Silver solves the mystery through careful observation and logical deduction, and I found it overall to be most satisfying.
An enjoyable Miss Silver whodunnit. Perhaps a little too much conversation between various pairs of characters in the second half, considering who might have 'dunnit', but a good cast of characters and suspects, and a surprising and exciting dénouement.The GR blurb:'When the quiet village of Tilling Green is plagued by an outbreak of poison pen letters, and then a mysterious suicide, Scotland Yard dispatches Miss Silver to investigate.'
Miss Silver is sort of Miss Marple's cousin-once-removed--an elderly lady who was once a governess and became a professional investigator, useful for her ability to blend in and knit quietly while suspects implicate themselves in country houses, Women's Teas, and churches. This mystery is fairly dark: Miss Silver is asked by a policeman friend to look into some poison pen letters that caused a shy, quiet girl to commit suicide.
This book had a romantic subplot, so I didn't completely hate it, but otherwise it wasn't really up to much. I knew who the murderer was as soon as the character was introduced, I can think of six different ways of improving the tale, and all-in-all it read like an extremely poor man's (view spoiler)[Murder Is Easy by Dame Agatha. (hide spoiler)]
didnt enjoy this as much as the other Patricia i have read. miss silver is a little like miss marple but doesnt have miss marple's awesome. miss silver doesnt say much until the end when talking to her policeman friend and even then its all 'you dont really think so do you dear?' too many characters - i could only follow valentine and her fiance clearly, other storylines got a bit confused.
Not my favorite of the series--rather slower than the others, and not much idea which characters were worth getting behind. I suspected the culprit when no other suspects seemed to be emerging, and this time was correct, but I was not left with an impression of a case closed. What an odd collection of people in Tilling Green! I really had no idea what any of them were about.
This was good, solid detective fiction, if a touch dated. While not as gripping as an Agatha Christie or Dorothy Sayers or P.D. James, Patricia Wentworth and her title character, Miss Silver, were nevertheless jolly and diverting. It was as easy to put down as pick up again.
Patricia Wentworth , Gray Mask is on of those classic readers we should all read and enjoy. Not only are we met with her literary talents, but we also are engaged with the day, set and time of the era.Renee Robinson, Shadows of The Heart
Fun mystery with the inimitable Miss Silver.
