https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8551.Flying_Finish
The man who owns the company humors Henry by giving him the job, but he's sure that the titled nobleman won't stick it out for very long.Obviously, though, the employer has never read a Dick Francis novel and doesn't know the kind of man he's really dealing with here.
Like most Francis protagonists, Henry Grey is a quiet but very intelligent and capable man.
Before long, Henry will discover that something very odd is going on in the horse transport business, and his discovery could well cost him his life.Like most Dick Francis novels, this one is well-plotted and moves along at a brisk pace.
He quits his desk job and takes a much more physical one instead, overseeing the air transport of horses.Henry is an unusual character and a little hard to warm up to at first.
And there's the fact that his predecessors and coworkers keep going missing...Tie in a little bit of romance, a frankly adorable international birth control smuggling ring, some immensely clever plotting, and one of the best action sequences I've ever read, and you have Flying Finish.
This is easily the darkest, and probably one of the handful of best Dick Francis. What kills me on top, it still has a modern, a relevant feel, even though by now a lot of it is hopelessly dated: no mobiles, airports after 9/11, feminism in Italy, no more Yugoslavia. Instead now this book reads like an excellent historical, with the author commenting on the present through the past. I guess this has to be the ultimate test of an excellent genre book: the test of time and being as relevant now as fifty years ago.Fabulous.
When he refuses to be home for a posh weekend, his sister rages at him, calling him "a spoiled, bad-tempered bastard." Those words from the kindest member of his family shake Henry out of his rut and he gives up his desk job and takes a menial position at a horse transportation firm, perhaps to prove to himself that he's not too spoiled to do a hard day's work.
Then odd things start happening at the transport firm....I liked the way Henry matures and learns to open himself up to others; by the end he is a changed man.
Patrick smuggled contraceptive pills for Italian women who could not get them in Italy.Various employees of transporting company that Henry Grey worked for had gone missing as they were murdered by Billy.
Also, one of the senior emplyees had got involved in a scheme to export horses twice to get extra retirement money as at that time the UK was giving 1.75% of export value as an incentive.Both Gabriela and Henry are shot, unbeknown, in Milan by Billy hired gunman masquerading as a horse groom in the transporting planes working for the boss.
I just listened to the Chivers Audio version of this book, narrated by Tony Britton, for the umpteenth time. I love the fact that it was written in the mid-1960's. It is classic Dick Francis and exactly what I want in a stress-relieving book on tape.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
Dick Francis, a little like Agatha Christie, must be a guilty pleasure.
It's not great literature, but from what I remember from college work, great literature isn't exactly fun.
What I say here can be said of everything I've come across in Francis's work....
an interesting, unusual, entertaining story with likable good guys, surprising bad guys, and interesting (and sometimes misleading) inbetween-guys, not to mention the gratifying resolution that's hardly ever predictable.
Yes, that's a little weird.
Not to mention the down-to-earth titled fellow hiding his privilege to prove his worth.
Good stuff.

This is an enjoyable Francis novel simply because the character of Gabriella is one of the better Francis heroines. It also stands out because the character of Henry goes though a believable character change and arc. There are connections in his growth and behavior that Henry doesn’t see, but that the reader does. The point of the novel seems to be class, and there is a slight plot hole that a reader will wonder about. Readers should be warned, however, that this is one of the more violent Francis endings.
A horse transport worker discovers that his company is not always on the up and up. This book takes place in Italy, having the main character falling in love as well.Lots of death, exciting.
Vivid characters and strong, engrossing detail about a world most of us know nothing about, horse transport by air.
The story is technologically dated, but that only makes it feel like a slice of history, a window into the Cold War as seen by someone who only casually gave it thought--until people he cared about started disappearing.
The opening paragraph hooks the reader with strong foreshadowing.
This, and other similar, casually tossed off asides are instrumental in keeping us intrigued as the mystery builds until Henry finally begins to peel back the curtain.
My only quibble is the book ended about 2-3 pages too soon.
Like many of Dick Francis' protagonists, The main character isn't very aware of his own abilities, appeal, and strengths.
The way he describes himself spoke a lot to me....except in my case, I rather lack the nerves of steel and cold willpower that he eventually exhibits in the fight for life, limb, and justice.The only downside to this book is the excessive details of flying planes.
I understand that the author was really into flying, but he doesn't infodump on horse racing, so why does he infodump on flight controls and procedures?
Flying Finish is one of Francis' odder books as the main character is the son of an Earl who seems to be drifting through life.
At the beginning of the book, he takes a job helping to transport horses by plane which no one who knows him can understand.
As this is an older book of Francis', some of the language used can be harsh in terms of class and race perspectives.
The main character's growth as he figures out what he wants to make of his life adds to the story because the plot is a good gripping thriller with some Cold War overtones.
When amateur jockey and pilot Lord Henry Grey launches himself into a career in the bloodstock market, he finds more danger and excitement than he'd ever anticipated. Henry immediately takes to his glittering new world and, when he meets the glamorous Gabriella in Italy, is sure he's hit the good life. That is, until a horse mysteriously dies in transit and a colleague vanishes. Then Grey discovers that both his predecessors went missing in mysterious circumstances and begins to doubt the wisdom of his career change. Either he has to turn detective or his own disappearance could be next .
[7 / 10] I'm a big fan of the author, and this book is in line with his usual output, a little too much so. There's the usual quiet, but secretly strong hero, getting mixed up with crooks and finding love along the way, also having his ass kicked by the bad guys but getting the better of them through sheer perseverance and endurance. Mr Francis hit on a winning formula and this book is a simple permutation of the successful elements deployed in the previous books. I just felt there's not enough sparkle to raise it above the norm.
Despite the indication otherwise, I did not read the paperback. Instead I found a first edition hardback of this 1966 classic for $1 at a library sale, and the cover (a pegasus covered in a Union Jack) is amazing! Very excited to add this to my Dick Francis collection. Beyond that, the book is pretty typical of the early DF books: very engaging, very British, and just a little bit brutal. This one does veer from his other novels, however, by leaving the reader a little big hanging at the end.
FLYING FINISH - ExFrancis, Dick - 5th bookLord Henry Grey was an amateur jockey and pilot. But when he decides to abandon his desk-bound job for an active career in the bloodstock market, he finds that there is more to couriering valuable horses around the world than he had ever suspected.Interesting information about shipping horses and the dangers involved. Great character, excellent suspense.
My favorite author of all time!!!!! I am pretty sure that I have read all of his books. He writes mystery and it always includes horse racing in some way. This is my favorite one!!!!!! Even if you know nothing about racing or horses Dick Francis can draw you in and hold your interest. Fabulous characterization and storytelling.
On a Dick Francis binge at the moment, and thoroughly enjoying re-reading him
Ends too abruptly without tying up loose ends, but good. Henry Grey is not the superhuman of Dick Francis' usual male protoganists.
This is a different type of book from the other Dick Francis books I've read. It's more of a suspense novel than a mystery.
Dick Francis' fifth novel, and the fifth one I've read, as well. This one has less to do with racing and horses than the previous ones, though the connection is still there. Once again, the story builds up to an almost unbearably tense climax or, really, TWO of them, in this case.
I've read a couple of other Dick Francis books in the past, but I can't say that his mysteries really stick with me.
I think perhaps if they were much more centered on the track and the actual horse racing, then he might do a better job of pulling me in.
Every book I've read so far has dealt with some peripheral portion of the horse racing world.
Quite honestly, we could have skipped the "mystery" and gone with the human interest story and romance and I think it would have been a much better book.
Henry Grey has a desk job working for a company involved with arranging transport of horses.
He enjoys it, except for some of the people he is working with, most noteably Billy who seems determined to make Henry's life miserable on every flight.
Eventually Henry figures out what is really going on and then it's a matter of whethere he can stay alive long enough to do something with the information.
Typical Dick Francis formula which isn't a bad thing: Man gets job working in some capacity with horses.
Man has to fight for his life to expose what is going on.
When his sister goes deservedly ballistic on him, he attempts to shake himself out of his rut by taking a job as a groom who escorts horses on international flights.
His life starts to change when he notices an odd pattern: grooms on flights between England and Italy tend to vanish in Italy.
But Francis sells me on actual love.) Meanwhile, Henry begins to realize that the vicious young groom who's been bullying him on flights may not only resent Henry for being a lord...Despite some oddities and dated bits, Flying Finish is one of my favorite Francis novels.
Warning for horse harm.
I'm starting to really enjoy Dick Francis.
This is the second of his books that I've read (the other was Rat Race).
Once again, we have a mystery/thriller tale at the intersection of the horse racing and general aviation worlds (this has got to be an unusual combo!).
I like the protagonist in this book a bit better, because who doesn't love identifying with an introvert?
Unnecessary.Mostly I loved the dose of plane-flying experiences and knowledge that was incorporated into the story, which is all 100% real, aside from (perhaps) the heroics in the final act.
Enjoy it!
A friend destashed a load of books forever ago for me to read & pass on; this was one of them.This is my 1st Dick Francis book & I think I will read another.
This book is all about smuggling - from the witty contraband contrceptives to Milan to more sinister smuggling - telling you would spoil the book.This is definitely a light entertainment, but one that is well written, well paced and where the hero gets to squeeze the girl in his arms, passions aroused on the last page.
I've only read a couple of them, but it amazes me every time that the author manages to tell good stories with engaging characters EVERY time in such a narrow scope.
Even more amazing is that he creates a pile of new characters for every novel.
The main character was an Earl who was an amateur jocket and pilot, and who was a very down to earth 'I just want to be a regular guy' type.
The ending wasn't entirely satisfactory (it really could have used 1 last chapter/epilogue), but that's just because I want to know if everyone lived happily ever after or not.
Good book, but I wish he would extend the ending so you can see how he talked himself out of such a tight spot!
