https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33793651-essays
In this essay he gives his account of the nature of the human life and how we typically deal with it, and he outlines the main themes that he would later develop more thoroughly in his phd thesis Om det tragiske (which I believe hasn't been translated to English, somewhat surprisingly).Safe to say, Zapffe's account of humanity is a bleak one.
Most people learn to save themselves by artificially limiting the content of consciousness.
This was a most excellent read. There wasn't much insight I could glean from it due to having read Ligotti's analysis of it beforehand. However, I must say, his ideas were way ahead of his time, and it's easy to understand why he was and will be so ignored by mainstream philosophy.
a short essay on the author's brand of pessimism.for him, the human being is doomed to alienation, f
Antinatalist and pessimistic; this is one of my favorite essays of all time. Zapffe uses poetic aphorism to examine the troubling paradox of human consciousness. Definitely worth looking for if one can handle it’s deeply anti-humanist message.
Tracking Rust Cohle’s thoughts and his speeches brought me to The Conspiracy against the human race by Thomas ligotti and then to this : The Last Messiah by a Norwegian philosopher named Peter Wessel Zappfe about whom Thomas Hylland Eriksen said : “....Zapffe's major work was a massive treatise on human tragedy, Om det tragiske, published during the Second World War. The masterpiece was written at the same time as Sartre was working out the doctrine of Existentialism.
A sample essay of Zapffe who is currently trendy, though little of his work has been translated into English.
Thomas Ligotti has lifted an atmospheric philosophy from him that has in turn influenced the popular show True Detective.
This "scholarly" essay is as undisciplined as any you are likely to find on the Internet, and that is an achievement.
If life isn't worth its effort, philosophically, then soccur can be garnered through literary self-indulgence.
Zapffe wanders about claiming man has unfortunately evolved into too smart a creature.
Not present, however, is Nietzsche's heroic optimism, which makes this essay feel like....well, rotting Nietzsche.
هذه المقالة عظيمة كتبت في عام ١٩٣٣ لبيتر زابف ، المقالة هذه هي اساس الفكر الذي يتحدث عن نتيشه ومن خلال زابف و بفكره الخاص تتضح لماذا الوجود الوجودي كانت نتيجة لفكر متطور بشكل مبالغ كما يقول بزاف و بنظرهِ أن الناس يتغلبون على ذلك عن طريق الحد من الوعي بشكل غير حقيقي ومتصنعو من خلال هذه المقالة قدم أربعة آليات تحدث فيها عن كيفية الدفاع الفرد عن ذاته و أنسانيته ضد عبء الفكر.مقالة جميلةLink : https://philosophynow.org/issues/45/T...
Zapffe claims that though this depressive state is the true state of human nature, humans can avoid this fate by "artificially limiting the contents of consciousness".
"God, the Church, the State, morality, fate, the law of life, the people, the future." Of course, these anchors are arbitrary and limit human freedom.3.
The author does not suffer, he is filling pages and is going to be published in a journal."Zapffe then claims that humans can never learn to live with themselves in harmony.
We do know that there are humans who have happy lives worth living; he claims these people have "broken antlers" as it were, but from whose perspective is this a bad thing?
The human condition stripped naked, thruthfully and painfully.
Mixed feelings about the very brief glorification of communism, but overall pretty good
Know yourselves- be infertile and let the earth be silent after ye.
The foundational work of philosophical pessimism. Though I myself am more of an indifferentist than a pessimist, I feel that this is a perspective sorely lacking in our society and needed to provide balance to our discourse. While it is true that Ligotti has built and expanded off of this though in far more recent times, I feel that the original essay contains a more neutral tone of observation as to the dangers of consciousness and is probably more accessible to a more general audience.
A very beautiful and sublime, yet extremely pessimistic, take on the human condition. A short read. Highly recommended.Nietzsche's take on the death of god at least gave some room for hope that we could some day be able to create value systems that were not based on "limiting our consciousness", as Zapffe puts it. Here we explore why we could not have such an option.
This guy's a bummer...https://philosophynow.org/issues/45/T...
3edgy5me
Took the abstract thoughts I have and put them into cohesive words.
Nothing more has to be said.
“Know yourself — be infertile and let the earth be silent after you.”
“Know yourselves- be infertile and let the earth be silent after ye.” Zapffe believes human consciousness is a tragic byproduct of evolution, an overdeveloped skill not fitting into nature's design. Our reflections on concepts such as life and death cannot be pacified, and we are imbued with a need nature cannot satisfy. The tragedy, following this theory, is that humans spend all their time trying not to be human. The human being, therefore, is a paradox.We limit/give meaning to this conscious
Zapffe believes human consciousness is a tragic byproduct of evolution, an overdeveloped skill not fitting into nature's design.
The human being, therefore, is a paradox.We limit/give meaning to this consciousness using 4 mechanics to repress it:Isolation: "a fully arbitrary dismissal from consciousness of all disturbing and destructive thought and feeling".Anchoring: The "fixation of points within, or construction of walls around, the liquid fray of consciousness".
Zapffe also applied the anchoring principle to society, and stated "God, the Church, the State, morality, fate, the laws of life, the people, the future"are all examples of collective primary anchoring firmaments.Distraction: When "one limits attention to the critical bounds by constantly enthralling it with impressions".
Might be interesting for those interested in more pessimistic view of the world.I read this philosophical essay mostly because some guy on reddit mentioned it to describe views similar to the ones i was having at the time. It did have those views, but gave nothing else of value to me.
Wish I could find his main work in English, German, or French. I recommend this short excerpt.
The truest summary to the human condition/problem.
Know thyself - be infertile and let the earth be quiet after ye...
Zapffe, through explaining the desperate nature of the human condition, tells a haunting tale with even more haunting implications. Nonetheless, understanding these implications is necessary.
The sentences written in this essay bring Zapffe at the pedestal of this realistic , rationalized abyss ; even though the word ''pedestal'' will be too much sublimated for Zapffe's philosophical and life optic. I really hope that his fundamental work will be soon translated in English.
