https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2271807.More_William
Still on the nostalgia trail... moving on to another childhood favourite. I made my first acquaintance with William, the boy with the outsize imagination, grandiose schemes and total disregard for social consequences through this book. I fell instantly in love with this "outlaw among outlaws.
Being a mummy you have to read plenty of stories and this is one we originally found in audio form. Luckily I managed to find a copy for bedtime and other times I am demanded from my 4yr old to read to him. These wonderful stories, while dated are full of adventure and mischief but truely lovely.
Currently a free download on Kindle! A really wonderful collection. The combination of child-friendly mischievous adventures of William, Joan and the Outlaws and Crompton's E. F. Benson-like satirical touch when it comes to the social pretensions of William's elders just doesn't have its like in any other series. "More William" is early, classic 1920s William, as he causes havoc everywhere - and even ends up with a genuinely heartwarming Christmas story.
This is another entertaining William book.For Christmas William gets a book called “Portraits of our Kings and Queens”, which he understandably casts aside, and one entitled “Things a Boy can do” which he finds extremely promising.This unfortunate book suggests and gives precise instructions as to how to take a clock apart and, hopefully, reassemble it. There are also instructions for examining the insides of a mincing machine, which William finds one of in the kitchen, He doesnt stop to conside
On investigating, the family finds William and his little cousin Jimmy in the library with the inner bits of the clock spread out on the floor.Someone has put up a sign in William´s room conveying the message “A Busy Day is a Happy Day”.
The author is particularly partial to making fun of snobbish, pretentious, gushing females such as Mrs de Vere Carter.One of the passages in the book that made me laugh out loud was this one about the Society of Ancient Souls, whose female President moves in next door to the Browns.
What made this re-visit of a book I read as a boy a 5-star rating was listening today - on BBC Radio 4 Extra - to a recording of Martin Jarvis reading this live to a BBC audience.
The adventures of William and his friends Ginger, Henry and Douglas: The Outlaws are still fun and enjoyable 90 years after first being published, as they are simply about young ...moreWhat made this re-visit of a book I read as a boy a 5-star rating was listening today - on BBC Radio 4 Extra - to a recording of Martin Jarvis reading this live to a BBC audience.
And my first book of the New Year was first published in 19-bloody-22! Must've read this first as a schoolkid, and I definitely remember this series of Armada paperbacks with "William" written in script. Hilarious, nostalgic, and refreshing. If you need a breath of fresh air in your reading, or just want to cleanse your palate for the year ahead -- dip right in.
I loved the William books...a bygone age but still amusing and real insight into the mind and imagination of a 'boy'!
The William Brown books are meant to be read by young teenagers.
But when I was of that age, I merely knew of their existence though I never found the books to read.
But I read a few anyway just to see why my mother and her siblings spoke so highly of William Brown.While William's antics are a bit predictable now, Richmal Crompton's language is exquisite.
Her narration is certainly a treat to read.Now that I know what William is like, I doubt I will read any more.
However I will ensure that my daughter reads the whole series when she reaches the appropriate age.
These books are truly too good to miss!
MORE WILLIAM is a fine follow-up to the original book in the series (JUST WILLIAM) and even better than the first. It's another collection of stories that capture William's irrepressible character, yet the stories seem to have more heart and character than ever before. Two are Christmas-themed, with the final story a particularly heartwarming example of the genre, sentimental without overdoing it. Elsewhere, girls play a big part in William's adventures, and much hilarious ensues. Crompton has really got into her stride with this one and I look forward to following it up with the next.
Having really enjoyed Just William, I found this book quite frustrating. I stopped reading it for a while over Christmas when I went back to the UK, and didn't really want to pick it up again. Although I got to the end eventually, I didn't finish at least one story because I didn't like the way that one of the characters was mocked for having a stutter. This book felt very dated, and I probably won't read any of the others in the series now.
William Brown has been called ‘the bad boy of fiction.’ As he says himself: I don’t WANT to behave like a civilised yman bein’.
I bet savages don’t let themselves be dragged off ti ditty ole women when they’d rather go to see blood-curdlin’ an’ nerve-shettering Westerns.’ Or plunge into ditches, climb trees, fight with his enemies and come home a sight to break his mother’s heart.
If you would like to read about William’s creator, Richmal Crompton – The woman behind William by Mary Cadogan paints a charming biographical picture of a witty, talented and tolerant writer.
This audio book continues the adventures of William and his family and friend and is just as amusing and lighthearted as the previous books. The narrator, Martin Jarvis, is excellent and his performance adds to the enjoyment of the book. I really enjoyed this book and recommend it,
I very much enjoyed my first taste of Richmal Crompton's William books, Just William, and chose to read its sequel, More William, less than a week later. This is just as amusing and surprising as the first book, and I wish I'd got around to reading it in childhood. Very enjoyable.
We enjoyed this follow-up to the first William book. My kids were sad to see it end and begged for another! The last story was actually sweet.
Just re-living my long gone childhood. Rather than re-read from a book, I have chosen the audio book format, read by Martin Jarvis, to give it a sort of upgrade. Not that the books would have been enjoyable, it’s just great spending the odd hour or so listening to one volume every now and then, whilst I’m out walking or sitting in the garden, etc. The joy of being retired!!
Loved this. William is a little scamp, but he has some adorable qualities. And Martin Jarvis' reading is just divine. Highly recommended.
But I think my favourite was "The Reform of William" in which William decides one Sunday School that being good has a certain appeal for a change, so as it's too big a change to undertake straight away - and as there are many naughty things that he'd been putting off to do in the long vistas of badness in the years ahead, he decides to reform the day after tomorrow - the next day he fills with all deeds he'd simply not had time to do before (finding out exactly what WOULD happen when the dried pea shot from his pea shooter hits the fat bald head of the gardener; putting the kitten under the domed silver serving dish containing the breakfast bacon; stealing a gypsy caravan, and unknowingly the gypsy's family, and crashing it into another gypsy caravan; locking the cook in the pantry; finally painting the cat and hen green).
With the aid of the little girl next door, (Joan, one of the recurring characters who pop up now and then in the William stories), not actually invited to the party because she didn’t hold one to invite him to, he leaves his unwelcome guests distracted by a children’s entertainer, and steals all the food that has been laid on, to deliver it to the home of a village man (one of RC's stage cockneys drafted in for the purpose) being released from jail on Christmas Eve, whose penniless daughter has mentioned that she has written to Santa to ask for a spread for him.
In another story, he utilises the chaos and mischief afforded by April Fool’s Day to save his unassuming neighbour – a rather pathetic little man who wouldn’t be naturally liked by William – from a fate as bad as marriage.
I read this as I wanted to relive some books I'd enjoyed as a child.
I was convinced I'd enjoyed the William books.
Having read this book, I now realise I was confusing them with the Jennings books.
William's reasoning and perspective are credibly described, and so his actions, whilst frequently outrageous, appear quite plausible.
If you enjoyed William as a child, then I feel sure you'd still enjoy the books as an adult.
A light, easy, and fun read.Oh, and I've ordered a copy of The Best of Jennings: Four Utterly Wizard Adventures All Jolly Well Complete and Unabridged.
I was concerned that they would consider it a boy book and not be interested; however, this delightfully cheeky character has captured their hearts and imagination.
My two cheeky girls are looking for more William.
Although this is the second book in the series, we read it first.William is far from a perfect boy, but I believe he has more heart than all those adults put together.
I loved how they described the stilted conversation at parties, and the feeling of being out of place.
This book follows the further adventures of William the English rascal who has the best intentions and the worst luck when it comes to avoiding family outrage concerning his activities.
I like this series and this book is no exception.
Its one of the early novels in the series so its not as polished as some of the later books and the characters are not as defined, especially the Outlaws (who are only mentioned briefly ) and immediate family.
I liked this book and would recommend it for anyone who wants to take a trip back to when it was a more innocent time.
This is particularly evident in the story about the May Queen, where he ensures that the 'right' person gets the role, and the story about the little girl facing an impoverished Christmas with her dad just coming out of prison.
In fact, there may be more than one maid as William is said to have risen one Christmas morning 'before the maids'.
Difficult to imagine the sheer size of the servant class in those days, no wonder there was full employment - one half of the population were employing the other!
Richmal Crompton's Just William series continues to be a timeless.
Classic series.
And with good reason too - boys will be boys, and there will always be some truth to the stereotype of the naughty schoolboy who is forever getting into trouble.
The writing is enjoyable, and works for readers of any age, gender or culture.
It's hard not to guffaw out loud, or at least silently chuckle at William's antics.
And of course, Crompton manages so effortlessly, to bring a sense of nostalgia, and a sense of longing for simpler times of youth, to most adult readers.
A great classic of children's literature, William Brown embodies boyish mischief.
He is impervious to adult logic and lives only to have fun and let his imagination roam free.
But, even though his long-suffering relatives are often unable to appreciate it, he has his own sense of honor.These stories are still early ones, and some favorite supporting characters haven't been introduced yet (i.e. Hubert Lane).
Perhaps the stories in this book are not the most memorable in the series.
However, William is still William, and his stories are always enjoyable.
Crompton also uses them to make fun of certain adult attitudes and social conventions.
I love listening as William tries to cope with his very proper family. He has his own ideas of fun and generally follows his heart, willing to take the consequences of his actions. His true self comes shining thru' in "William's Christmas Eve" when he plays St Nicholas for a young girl, who's only wish is to have a nice meal that night when her father is released from prison. Of course William has to leave his own party and steal the food that was for his guests but it's all for the greater good!
William the irrestible, irrepressible boy who does not grow up. A perfect antidote for a day that has otherwise been gloomy. It is witty, it is insightful and above all its a whole lot of fun. My favourite story in the book is the one where William plays " Santa" to a poor family breaking the boundaries of class and doing good where it is most needed. For all his mischief, William does always have good intentions in his heart...so what if his methods are a tad unconventional.
William is for adults, too. The Outlaws' exploits are hilarious, and all the characters are instantly real to the reader's mind. They are rounded types, with distinct characteristics, from Mr Brown's deadly sardonic wit to Jumble's manic enthusiasm for everything. I remember reading William 50 years ago, and thinking how absolutely right his point of view was. So funny, now.Great to re-read these ageless classics.
"Reading" this streamed from libravox. I was driving yesterday laughing and laughing at the pranks William gets up to. I remember talking about these books with my elderly father in law a few years ago. I was reading them from the perspective of a mum of two boys. He had read them when he was the same age as William. so for him, they were boys' own adventures, and he didn't remember them being funny at all!
More of William's hilarious adventures with his long-suffering family and friends. I do enjoy his adventures and his reasoning for why he is so naughty.Back Cover Blurb:When Aunt Lucy tells William that 'a busy day is a happy day', William does his best to keep himself very busy indeed. Not everyone appreciates his efforts to cheer up Christmas Day - and when a conjuring trick with an egg goes badly wrong, William finds himself in more trouble than ever!
Further collection of Richmal Crompton's William stories, where the titular character gets himself into more scrapes and misadventures. I have to say, as well, that the language in them is actually quite advanced: while the stories may all be about a kid, I don't really think they are written *for* kids (if that makes sense>)
