https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2316.The_Headless_Cupid
This modern classic about witchcraft, family and fantasy is both exciting and deeply imaginative. The Headless Cupid is undeniably worth reading and despite being released decades ago it's hardly dated in the slightest.
Honestly I only desided to read it because the two main characters were David and Amanda.
At the time 1989 I could only get my hands on this one and the next in the series (The Famous Stanley Kidnapping Case) So I had to deal with reading each and every one of this authors other titles I could find at my schools and the local public library.
Over the years I have looked at different libraries and found a few, but over the last 2 years I have discovered the internet and I no long have any limits to which ones I can get and read.
I have bought the ones I read and loved so long ago.
I hadn't read this book in a hundred years, and suddenly thought to read it aloud to the kids! They loved it, and got really into figuring out if there was a poltergeist or if Amanda was just playing pranks. Spooky without being too scary, even for my 6yo.
The Headless Cupid exists in the same eerie world as Phyllis Reynolds Naylor's Witch books Witch's Sister and The Ghost Next Door or Lois Duncan's Summer of Fear (The Children of Green Knowe has this flavor as well, only more gothic and less suspenseful).
Snyder was one of the masters of the craft of children's literature; The Headless Cupid continues to hold up really well.
It's deliciously slow, and like the best suspense and ghost stories, tricky.
She uses David, her main character, and his thoughts and beliefs to trick us into thinking things are one way...
A recently blended family getting to know one another.
A resentful girl with an interest in the occult.
Amusing little kids.
A big, old house.I think what marks this out as a novel of the 70s is that the kids have all summer pretty much on their own.
They're expected to appear for meals, but none of them has any playdates, or scheduled activities, nor do they have other kids around to play with.
Just a long, empty summer to get into trouble.
It's a fun book, less creepy than amusing in their efforts to become occult, and blend as a family.Library copy.
One of the rare books that I loved as a kid that still holds up upon reading as an adult.
David's new step-mom has a daughter, Amanda, who is quite taken with the occult and also not terribly pleased with being moved to the country to live with her new family.
Amanda decides to make the kids her "neophytes" and initiate them into magic and spells.
I never knew when I was a kid that this was the first in a series about the Stanley family.
Now, I've acquired them all and am excited to read them.
At one of the library's booksales, I picked up a bunch of books that I liked or were super-popular when I was in elementary school. This is the first one I've actually read, and it was fun to indulge the nostalgia. While resolution at the end was a little too quick, I thought, the rest of it was still good!
Found this when I was looking for a book for Miles - I loved this book when I was a kid. Guess what, I still like it! Good writing, good messages, and a poltergeist storyline to hold interest.
Children deal with living in a haunted house. When I was a kid, this was an unbearably spooky book.
One of my favorite books when I was younger, any fan of ghost stories or paranormal mysteries should really enjoy this.David Stanley tries his hardest to play the ultimate big brother to his three very different young siblings.
And maybe none of them will be prepared to deal with it.Sprinkled with hilarity and fun that take the worst of the creepiness out of this spooky novel (the siblings' attempts to pass Amanda's rites, as well as "capture" lizard familiars and hold a seance, have lots of funny moments), this is a perfect introduction to anyone who wants to try a ghost story.
I loved Zilpha Keatley Snyder as a child and I was curious to see if her books stand up.
I'm also re-reading lots of my childhood favourites, and analyzing them and paying more attention to how stories are told.This book stood up well.
It was well written and had a great plot and was still creepy.
I plan to read more of Zilpha's books.
I loved them.There's only one section of the book that didn't stand up and that's a section where the characters were playing slave drivers and slaves.
I can't picture that happening in a modern day kid's book.
Finished my book on the train to work and realized the battery on my Kindle was dead, so I grabbed a book form my classroom library I hadn't read in a while. I've been recommending this to all my kids asking for scary stories even though I hadn't read it since I was their age. It's still great, although I'm not sure that the kids looking for a scary book will be very satisfied. The only scary parts are close to the end. The characters are so well-written, though.
I read this as a young girl and loved it and recently read it again to my children and loved it even more. My 15 year old son even commented on how he liked the way she did the characters--one of the big reasons I like it so much too. It is a great read-a-loud for many ages--I read it to all my kids. The three year old didn't get into it but from ages 6-15 they were spellbound.
I love reading kid's books, and this one was a real treat. A clever ghost story with themes of tween anger, divorce, and giving someone the benefit of the doubt. Terrific for tweens to read on their own or for mom or dad to read to their kids while cuddling next to them on a stormy night.
I really enjoyed this book again. I hadn't read it since childhood. I do enjoy Z. Keatley Snyder a lot. The Egypt Game is another favorite by her. I know that there is another book with the same family that is set in Italy I think. I'm going to check that one out.
4.5 A lot of negative reviews seem to focus on Amanda’s lack of likability.
To me that just signals a lack of empathy in a person’s reading.
Maybe even a little bit of wanting portrayals of children to be rose-tinted rather than realistic.
I like reading about characters who make mistakes, characters who sometimes deal with their feelings poorly, etc, not only in middle grade books, but maybe especially in middle grade books.
I liked this book a lot, and look forward to reading more by Snyder, since I missed out on her as an equally imperfect kid.
Was it a paranormal thing, was it a cute story about children learning how to live together as a mixed family?
The tense friendship that David and Amanda strike is incredibly realistic; she resents her mother for re-marrying, but she also likes having friends and other people to entertain, so they have a somewhat “frenemy” vibe.
Amanda is incredibly confused and hurt by her mother’s remarriage, so she works it out through these magical activities.
I like that it toes the line between paranormal and realistic, not really leaning in either direction.
I only got to page 69 and it was so dead boring that I was almost falling asleep.
The main female was also super cruel to all animals and even worse to young children (she called them things).
She hates everything but her best friend and her dad (and the only reason she likes her dad is because he showers her with money whenever she wants something and never tells her no).
Both her and her friend decied that they were going to be witches and that all witches have to be awful hags and steal things.
All in all this was a super boring and completely dreadful book.
This is a book for fourth through sixth grade readers.
At the time, there wasn't much out there for adolescents.
Although probably good adolescent literature for its time, there are much stronger pieces of literature out there today.
The plot seems too contrived and the fact that five kids are left alone most of the time seems unbelievable.
Also, the family relationships aren't described, and the parents are flat characters without much depth.
This is a book controversial for its depictions of witchcraft, but I am more concerned with the poor plot and character development!
Not my favorite. I didn't enjoy reading about a bratty girl and I didn't enjoy the quickness of the ending. Why do books have to spend so much time on the problem and the build up and yet spend little time after the situation is resolved? I think readers deserve to know what happens next, especially to make it seem more realistic. And this ending wasn't satisfactory at all.
After re-reading The Witches of Worm, I got the urge to re-read another Snyder novel that pleasantly creeped me out as a kid. This was still a good novel this go-round, and as with Witches of Worm, I was a lot more aware this time of the psychology involved with the characters. I may need to revisit The Egypt Game sometime soon...
I LOVED THIS BOOK SO MUCH AS A KIDDO
My favorite book as a child. I read it again every few years and recommend to my friends with children.
Kindle Daily Deal 8/13/14
But back to The Headless Cupid: I first read this book when I was about 10 years old and loved it.
I was excited to re-read it and see if it held up to my memories....and kind of afraid that I'd discover the magic gone upon revisiting it nearly 30 years later.The great news is The Headless Cupid was every bit as awesome as I remembered.
That is, I never realized just how troubled Amanda's character truly is: (view spoiler)[The heartbreaking devotion to a father who was obviously neglectful and who used money and presents in place of love and quality time...
David and his three younger siblings move into an old and mysterious house with their dad, new stepmom and her peculiar daughter, Amanda, who is twelve to David's eleven.
She quickly establishes herself as the leader and pulls David and the little ones into an elaborate series of initiation rites.
When they learn that there may have been a poltergeist in the old house long ago, however, things start happening and David works to solve all sorts of mysteries.An interesting story and a fun read that pulls you in and keeps you page-turning.
I remember reading this when it first came out and loving it.
I was nine then, and I read it at least three or four times.
I even wrote a poem from the cupid's point of view!
I shared that with the children's librarian and she loved it and they printed it in the library column of the local paper.
(And she kept it and I never got it back, either.)I just re-read the book for the first time in 41 years and I'm sorry to say, it didn't hold up for me.
(3.5 stars) I didn't think I was going to like this at all because of Amanda's attitude and all the witchcraft / occult content, but I enjoyed it because the book was grounded around David and his siblings.
I thought Snyder was astute in her portrayal of Amanda, dealing with divorce and remarriage, contrasted with the Stanley children, whose mother had died as they formed a blended family.
I liked how the "real" Amanda was drawn out by the end of the book.
Regardless, I won't hand this book to any of my kids because I'm wary of books that might encourage them to play around with the occult.
Even though I discovered Zilpha Keatley Snyder through the Egypt Game and The Famous Stanley Kidnapping Disaster, this might be one of my favorites.
It's so hard to pick with Snyder.
This one or A Fabulous Creature.
I can't tell you how many times I've read each of her books.
This is definitely the best Stanley book, though reading it as an adult has been interesting.
For instance, David is a super mature eleven year old.
I definitely didn't catch that when I was younger.
I also forgot how genuinely *funny* this book is.
Even as an adult I was laughing out loud.
Definitely recommended.
David's new step-sister is quite a treat. She works so hard at hating everyone. I loved when the tables turned. The supernatural elements are softly hinted at. I would have preferred this story to have been either a flat-out mystery with logical conclusions, or to have more spine-chilling supernatural events. The dynamics of the kids' characters pulls the story along and makes for a very enjoyable read.
