https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11253.A_Severed_Head
The protagonist knows the least of anyone, which is always fun, and though his behavior throughout the book is repellent, Murdoch accomplishes the difficult task of making him likable, mostly through the parodist stiff-upper-lip way he approaches the dissolution of his marriage, his affair, his family, his crush, and his (marvelously concealed except for one glimmering line) gay crush.
The novel falls into the book-club trap, when characters are assessed as if they are real people, and their bad behavior (and everyone is so very, very bad) can seem a disappointment.
I got hooked on Iris Murdoch for a year or so when I was around 20 and read more than half of her novels.
But I did wonder where she got her ideas from.
I mean, here she was, respectable married professor of philosophy and whatnot, and her plots are always this tangled mess of everyone sleeping with everyone else in between dropping clever epigrams about Wittgenstein.
As the whole world now knows, Murdoch's life was a tangled mess of everyone sleeping with everyone else.
I don't know whether her lovers dropped clever epigrams about Wittgenstein, but I bet she did, and they probably felt they needed to keep up.
See, I'm not the only one here.If you love to loath the characters that feature in your reads then this is the book for you.
I failed to observe any castration in the novel, despite what it says in the blurb on the back (at one point I was wondering where the samurai sword might swing) but I suspect the castration is the implied mental castration of some of the characters, especially Martin who is largely responsible for creating a number of emotionally stunted situations and with each twist and affair he becomes less and less powerful.So to sum up; an unlikeable cast and no castration but an excellent short novella which is much less scary than the cover.
I appreciate the prose style, and can see that Murdoch makes important statements on sexual liberation, but...
All characters are equally unsympathetic, and their lives form a panorama of sexual behaviours that challenged the bourgeois minds in 1976 for sure.
Or just hollow, shallow marionettes carrying out a danse macabre that has lost its charm after decades of sexual over-stimulation in media, art and literature?Or maybe just not relevant to me at this moment in time?
This was my first Iris Murdoch, and I suspect I expected more, as my prejudice was that she is one of the great modern writers.
Let's have a quintet."Medusa's Head Severed from Her BodyHonor Klein was by far the most fascinating character in the novel from my point of view.
Mas não lhe chega, também tem uma amante; muito mais nova, desleixada, desarrumada, um mimo pra saborear clandestinamente e por quem sente um amor " terno, sensual e alegre".
O que se encontra até à última página é uma sucessão de acontecimentos e comportamentos inesperados de nos deixar de boca aberta.Parece brincadeira, mas é - de uma maneira exagerada - muito autêntico e capaz de nos pôr a pensar como reagiríamos numa destas situações.
Martin adores his wife, loves his mistress, has homosexual fantasises about his chum Palmer while simultaneously yearning for Palmer's sister, Honor (noticing Palmer's hairy legs and Honor's hairy lip, he clearly has a hair fixation; both his wife and his mistress have Rapunzel-like hair).
Martin's brother, Alexander, is in the melange too and, if it all is starting to sound incestuous, prepare yourself for the genuine article, handled by Murdoch deliciously without sensationalism.
Murdoch tended to write about people firmly in the second camp, so much so that her characters are often very hard to love.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b066v39vDescription: When Martin Lynch-Gibbon's wife runs off with her analyst and his best friend, Palmer Anderson, the three characters attempt to behave in a civilised manner; but there is the matter of Martin's mistress and Palmer's sister to contend with and undoubtedly the thin veneer of civilisation will crack in Murdoch's witty and wise story."You can recognise the people who live for others by the haunted look on the faces ofthe others." 1/5: Satire on analysis as a group of over-cultivated characters swap partners.
2/5: With his wife having left him, how does he feel about his mistress, Georgie.
iris murdoch reminds me a lot of henry james, in that her style is almost scientific.
it doesn't quite have the emotional heart of, say, The Sandcastle, but it's still just delightful and surprising on every page.i think i'm starting to understand that one of the things murdoch is dealing with is the impossibility of knowing ourselves.
most stories start out with someone wanting something, and then somewhere along the way they maybe reconceptualize.
in iris murdoch stories, people are changing all the time; their desires switch from scene to scene depending on everyone and everything else.
My sixth Murdoch novel, and a very good one for book clubs or for newcomers to start with, I think, given how much it tackles in its just over 200 pages.Love TriangleAs in Under the Net, we have a male narrator; here it’s Martin Lynch-Gibbon, 41, a wine merchant’s son who’s writing a work of military history.
She soon confesses to Martin that she’s madly in love with her therapist, Palmer Anderson, who is half-American and has been Martin’s friend for years.
It’s all very civilized.[This awful cover image is a still from the 1970 film, presumably portraying Martin and Antonia in flagrante on Palmer’s therapy couch?
Reading like an early draft of the play/film "Closer," this brilliant book was conceived by a woman whose p.o.v. is that of a man, Martin, who experiences degradation and despair, while he seeks sexual specters.
It is an exact, almost samurai-sharp (more on that later...) case study of both true incest & a social, more acceptable type of partner swapping.Let me try to explain the plot (SPOILER!
SPOILER!): Martin's in love with his wife, Antonia, who is herself having an affair with Martin's bff, Anderson (as in Cooper--the two seem the same person!), just as Martin "loves" his mistress, Georgie.
Every line of dialogue discloses some intimate feeling trying but failing to escape each character.
This catalogues a disintegrating 60s marriage: Martin is happy with his wife Antonia and mistress Georgie.
Antonia then leaves Martin to be with their friend and her psychoanalyst, Palmer, who has a sinister half-sister, Honor.
They are all utterly selfish, self-absorbed, hypocritical and fickle: their emotions flick from one extreme to another on a whim and remorse is a barely known concept.
Also, some of the references to Honor’s Jewishness read uncomfortably nowadays, although they would probably have raised few eyebrows when the book was published.Freudian and Oedipal analogies abound and it questions which betrayal is the worst: spouse, sibling, friend or lover?
What ties people together when they (by choice or necessity) escape the security of their own habits and find comforts of domestic life insufficient?
Being on the watch is also the only way of orientation in a newly opened horizone where foreign rules take charge (of which 'the severed head', coming from one of her distant tribe-expeditions, is the simbol).
Seeking for humanity when attachment is not a necessity anymore, the protagonists have to find comfort in 'I suffer, therefore I care' mentality, yet they are suffering from nothing but vanity, jelousy and leisure.
This book is filled to the brim with flawed and fabulously unlikable characters who nonetheless manage to drum up my sympathies.
They're like lab rats.
I'm not particularly fond of rats, but seeing them trapped in mazes and getting zapped as they're forced to navigate their confined little world--well, after a while I'm thinking, "awww...poor things." Such is the case with these self-involved, amoral characters.
But the confined maze-like lives in this book aren't quite as limited or predictable as the poor rat's.
Doors open and the maze grows and changes, and occasionally so do the characters.
Not only I didn't like Martin (Charles' counterpart for this novel) but I didn't like any of the characters.
Stop for a minute and try to imagine how awful it is for the reader to look for someone to like (identify with is so out of the question) and find no one.
It feels like these people are devoid of the most basic human feelings ever.
Maybe I am living in a bell jar, after all.I suppose the humour is not intentional, but after a certain number of combining possibilities I found myself bursting into laughter, thinking "My goodness, Iris, this is worse than a soap opera!" :)
After two chapters his life is upended and the book follows how this evolves in an almost farcical manner with the question of who is misleading who played with again and again.(view spoiler)[Martins wife Antonia who is described as much older than him despite being a mere five years older, (!) decides she wants to leave him for her psychiatrist Palmer, a good friend of Martin’s, perhaps more than a friend.
Alexander calls him ‘an imitation human being: beautifully finished, exquisitely coloured, but imitation.’ Georgie, in contrast to Palmer is open and independent and apparently tough and has no need of the ‘carapace’ of possessions that Martin and Antonia have.
Martin is happily married to Antonia but also has a mistress names Georgie.
Antonia is older than Martin and undergoing analysis.
Suddenly she leaves Martin and moves in with Anderson, her analyst.
Anderson's sister Honor tells Antonia about Georgie.
Every time I felt I had a grip on the plot, she went in exactly the opposite direction I would predict.I can just hear some of my reading group ladies getting riled up because not one character is likable or admirable.
But as she tells Martin, "This has nothing to do with happiness, nothing whatever."And that is the joke percolating through the whole tale.
The Dame explores the gothic genre in "The Unicorn." Here she cracks the nut of "artificial comedy," with a bow to Schnitzler and Coward, as her intimate circle pops amid beds while shelling bons mots. It's not meant to be taken seriously. Sensibility without sense, and sex as a form of nervousness.
Then Mr. My Life Is So Perfect gets a little bit of a shock when his quiet little wifey announces that she's leaving him for her psychotherapist, Palmer.
Hopefully this is a reflection on Martin's shortcomings rather than Ms Murdochs but whatever he thinks it doesn't stop him from adding Honor Klein to his list of problems which includes (but is not limited to) a wife, a mistress and an attractive best friend.Seriously, if you want to read a story about a bunch of utterly despicable people who mostly thoroughly deserve each other then look no further!
A Severed Head, Murdoch’s fifth novels starts with Martin Lynch-Gibbon enjoying a lazy afternoon together with his mistress Georgie, in her apartment as he ponders his life.
As he goes home after a wonderful conversation with Georgie, Antonia reveals a hideous confession concerning their relationship that makes Martin run for Antonia.
Thus begin the start of a dizzying and the most tangled and entertaining of all relationships in modern fiction.Decisions, hatred, revenge and the lack of self-control and other sobering things makes this novel seem depressing.
Filled with violence and surprise, melodrama and tragedy, her prose with poetic touch and quotable dialogue, Murdoch’s A Severed Head makes its contemporaries with the same theme seem uninteresting.
"On the whole 'do what you want' costs others less than 'do what you ought'."Or does it? 'A Severed Head' is a doozy! Quality time spent with a glorious love pentagon in a foggy South Ken. God is dead and everyone has lots of lovely money ... who's to say what's the right thing to do?
...I have absolutely no idea what the point of this book was.
At the end of things I just went and had a bowl of cereal.That, and I'm one of those people who loves so hard (and, I will admit, unhealthily) that, when confronted in real life with people who cheat on their partners, I am pretty much always filled with complete disgust and the mindless desire to slap said cheaters silly.
The last thing I want is a whole book filled with remorseless, nigh-sociopathic adulterers, which I should have considered when picking it up off the donations shelf.
So far there's been a bit of satire in her presentation of upper-class English twits recognizable from Monty Python.
Good fun, though I'm grinding my teeth over the character of the hapless, utterly self-absorbed and spoiled narrator.
people trying to get in touch in with their feelings merely get further away from them- Antonia seems like a Bette Davis/Veronica Lake combo- The letters - will they turn up to plague Martin later on?- The author uses the setting of yellow fog-bound London well - it's all a murky mess - and getting murkierI just looked up the film from 1970.
I think if I had felt more of a connection to the author's writing style, I could have dealt with the absurdity of the plot and characters, and if I liked the characters more, I could have dealt with not grooving on the writing style, but the combination of not being attracted by either was what left me without more affection for the book.
Rezension | Ein abgetrennter Kopf von Iris Murdoch Beschreibung Martin liebt seine wunderschöne Ehefrau über alles und ist mit ihrer Beziehung überglücklich.
Doch als Martin überraschenderweise von seiner Frau verlassen wird, gerät Martin ins schwanken und er muss seine Emotionen Stück für Stückchen sammeln.
Iris Murdoch hat mir mit ihrer charmanten Geschichte über Ehe, Liebschaften und Liebesbeziehungen im Allgemeinen ein wunderbares Wechselbad der Gefühle bereitet.
“Ein abgetrennter Kopf” ist eine äußerst gelungene Gessellschaftskomödie in der die möglichsten und unmöglichsten Varianten der Liebe ihren Auftritt haben.
Für mich ist Iris Murdoch eine glänzende Autorenentdeckung und “Ein abgetrennter Kopf” bestimmt nicht das letzte Buch das ich von ihr gelesen habe.
Looking for comments on this comic story of adulterous entanglements all I could come up with is the formulaic observation about the way women are denigrated as subordinates of men and mere sex objects under the present social order.In A Severed Head we have a protagonist who happily kept a mistress outside his legal wife who he assumes to be innocent.
Then his brother comes into the picture and takes his mistress away from him.But it turns out that his brother did this only to make his wife jealous because they have been having an illicit connection all along and her relationship with the psychoanalyst served simply as a filler to get over this more protracted love affair.
Managing to combine that very British kind of sex comedy where everyone is with the wrong partner (Lucky Jim would be another, published just seven years earlier) with astute skewerings of the human condition, time spent with this novel will surprise and delight.A Severed Head perfectly demonstrates that residents of very nice Central London addresses with a taste for the finer things can treat each other as badly as the worst guests of Jeremy Kyle or Jerry Springer.
Covering the trials of Martin – an almost permanently sloshed dilettante of a London wine merchant – and his efforts to keep the women in his life in line.
There is one of those thick London pea-souper fogs swirling, obliterating the once-familiar terrain, akin to Martin's attempts to blunder through life 'taking it well', as per his allotted role.
From BBC Radio 4 - 15 Minute Drama:When Martin Lynch-Gibbon's wife runs off with her analyst and his best friend, Palmer Anderson, the three characters attempt to behave in a civilised manner; but there is the matter of Martin's mistress and Palmer's sister to contend with and undoubtedly the thin veneer of civilisation will crack in Murdoch's witty and wise story.Episode 2:Martin's wife may have left him for his friend and her analyst, Palmer Anderson, but they are determined that they should remain on civilised terms.
But how does Martin now feel about his own mistress, Georgie, and why does Honor Klein, Palmer's frightening sister, insist on passing judgement on Martin's behaviour?
In A Severed Head, Martin Lynch-Gibbon, established wine merchant, and happily dedicated two-timing sophisticate (he has been betraying his wife, Antonia, by having an affair for some time with Georgie, a friend, and LSE lecturer), tells you the story of the collapse of his marriage, his wife's affair with no less than two men (one of which, with the manipulative, obnoxiously patronising, slimy psychoanalyst, Palmer Anderson, began even before Martin's marriage with Antonia; the other with Martin's sculptor brother, Alexander) and his stormy entanglement - and eventual (well, potential) resurrection, with the devilish, deeply disturbing brilliant academic Honor Klein (sister to Palmer).It is beautifully written, and compellingly so from the viewpoint of Martin's narration.
Сестра има и нашият герой, също и брат.
В резултат на сложната схема, на която вече би завидял сценарист на канала ХХL, мъжът осъзнава, че е влюбен в жена си, после мълниеносно го тресва любовта към грозната сестра на любовника, която от своя страна спи с брат си, а братът на героя ще се жени за любовницата му, докато всъщност спи с жена му.
Поне героите щяха да си спестят местенето на мебели, а драгият читател щеше да остане далеч по-удовлетворен.За нетърпеливите: съпругата заряза любовника и се врече на брата на мъжа си, мъжът остана с грозната сестра на любовника, любовникът отпраши с любовницата в търсене на прекрасното бъдеще, и само сестрата на героя остана сам-самичка.
