https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1606194.Mister_Johnson
Mister Johnston est une fable qui illustre les résultats tragiques quand deux hommes (un colonise africain et un colonisateur britannique) de bonne volonté et d'energie depassent les limites permises par les convenances sociales de la societe coloniale.
Plus specifiquement, les deux hommes rentrent dans une collaboration trop etroite selon les regles de la societe coloniale dans le but de construire une route qui est bien entendu un projet louable.
L'admirable Mister Johnson est carrément l'heros de cette tragedie aristolienne.La tragédie coniste dans le fait que leur jeunesse et manqué d'experience dans le milieu colonial leur poussent a mettre leurs forces ensembles dans un projet d'une maniere interdite par les regles de jeu.Il faut avouer que mon experience avec le systeme colonial consistent surtout des lectures.
Film time: http://youtu.be/vADRHPoGjH4Screenplay by William Boyd.Why are you late?The clock is fast!The clock has stopped, Johnson.But it was fast when it stopped, sir.Not such a good quality on YouTube but fine enough for me.:O)===========================The young women of Fada, in Nigeria, are well known for beauty.That first sentence will throw you right off; time has shifted, along with the singing sands of the sahara, country borders, colonialism, chauvinism and wealth. Fada is in Chad, in that northern section known as Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti.
Mr. Johnson, a Nigerian menial in a time when Britain was still a colonial power, is a rascal, a conniver, an idler who dedicates himself to ingratiating himself with others.
He ingratiates himself with those who read his story.At the outset, it can appear Joyce Cary is sketching a caricature of Uncle Tom. Mr.
Johnson is shrewd, however.
As we come to know him we gain insight into how African people came to gain a grip on their own lands and how Britain began to lose its grip.
There is no other book about re-World War II, 20th Century colonial Africa which resembles, "Mr. Johnson."
From IMDb:In 1923 British Colonial Nigeria, Mister Johnson is an oddity -- an educated black man who doesn't really fit in with the natives or the British. He works for the local British magistrate, and considers himself English, though he has never been to England. He is always scheming, trying to get ahead, which lands him in a lot of hot water.Another buddy matinee with dear friend Bettie, watching another movie with Pierce Brosnam.
When I mentioned the movie to an African friend of mine back in 1998 she hissed, "that is one of the most racist books." That statement probably kept me from reading it for so long.
Johnson's last grasp at some sort of dignity is to request the English judge to shoot him instead of hanging him.
Rudbeck, the English station manager/police chief/judge likes Johnson in a paternal sort of way, but he does not understand what drives him and has no compunctions against convicting him and sentencing him to death.
He is an acute observer of character and personal relationships, and appears to have a good grasp of his subject matter, so the novel recommends itself as a truthful tale of colonial life.Cary's Johnson, a junior clerk in the colonial administration of Nigeria, barely literate and less numerate, with a very inflated notion of his own importance, reckoning himself "an English gentleman", and dismissing other africans as "uncivilised bush apes", uses his position in the colonial administration for self-aggrandisement and peculation.
I read this so long ago that the details have faded out of mind, but I remembered loving it, underlining passages (in a library book, no less), laughing my head off at some of the dialogue, and having a troubled sense of where the story was headed.
Perhaps I should think more politically, perhaps I should be more aware of the plight of somebody somewhere at sometime and be saddened and wiser for it - or, as is more likely, I might simply be moved by a story that is well-told and layered with everything known to man - ambition, folly, desire, disappointment, exploitation - you name it.
This is why I will never be an academic.I recommend it to anyone who enjoys stories about Africa, colonialism, and human nature.
On the one hand, like his other African novels, Mr Johnson has what seems to me to be racist features.
Given the context of Cary's time and place, I suppose this is to be expected.
S. Pritchett makes the point that Cary's white colonists are just as ridiculous as his African natives.
The same can be said for the white commissioner, Rudbeck.
Mr. Johnson is by far and away the best of Cary's African novels, although it also seems to me that each of the last three is an improvement over its predecessor.
Yes, I know Cary was a part of the colonizing British empire and, yes, I know he attempted to show the harmful ramifications of colonialism but his incessant talking AT the Igbo characters, which resulted in cringe-worthy racist characterizations, is painful and horrific to read. Yes, I know the historical context in which Cary wrote and, yes, I'm fully aware I'm applying a 21st century perspective but I have never been as happy finishing a book than I was when I finished this one. Thankfully, I read Achebe's brilliant Things Fall Apart afterwards.
The Empire has a lot to answer for!
This is a difficult book to describe - at times I enjoyed it, but I frequently became depressed by it. Originally published in 1939, the language is dated, and would be considered offensive now, but it pefectly highlights how Africans and their white bosses spoke to one another, and how each was viewed by the other. Johnson, an irrepressible character, who it's is hard not to like instantly, is set on a collision course with disaster. Johnson is quite childlike, in his eternal optimism and his reverence of the white men he works for.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive listSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time in a single list.
Published in 1939. Set in early 1900's during British colonial rule in Nigeria. A very racist portrayal of African peoples and culture, but an interesting picture of how things worked in the colonial administration. His insightful analysis of the complex motivators of the main British character contrasts sharply with the buffoonish portrayal of all the Africans in the novel. Recommended as an example of racist colonial literature about Africa.
We read this book in my college geography class, and it is extremely racist. None of the information in this book is even remotely accurate, and my teacher from Ghana was highly offended. He says it depicts African culture as rudimentary, and honestly I have to agree with him. I know its a classic, but it supports horrible ideas.
The West African setting is perfectly captured for English readers - but the story of the upwardly-mobile Johnson is bitter-sweet & poignant. A man caught in the abyss between his native cultural ties & the new perspectives offered by so-called 'civilised' values. A rare excursion by a European writer into a complex dilemma of many colonial Africans in the last days of empire.
This was a hard book to read. I kept having the sense it was all going to go bad in the end even though there was a lot of humor & funny spots. Colonialism of Africa in the early 1920s & how there was so much potential for the simplest things to bad. It's part of what happens when there is so much difference between the haves & the have nots & when cultures are so incompatible.
A fun read, Mister Johnson is a likeable buffoon with delusions of grandeur, who doesn't quite realize that he is not fully human within the colonial system. Overly ambitious and moody, Johnson is a fun character, if not fully believable. Cary's text is revelatory of colonial conceptions of the 'native' as alternately buffoon and savage.
This is a difficult book to read in 2010 as the portrayal of Mr Johnson as a simple, comical native would seem to be offensive as is certainly the language. Yet all the characters in this colonial farce are equally ludicrous, self obsessed and trying to make the best for themselves out of the incompatability of the 2 cultures. essentially a comedy but an illuminating one.
An uncomfortable tale of clashing cultures in the time of the British Empire. Very much an individual's story but one that tells the story of entire tribes and nations. A comic narrative with a tragic undercurrent.
Although Cary is as critical of the British in Africa as he is of the natives, there is certainly a question of poitical incorrectness here. Still in the end, in the clash of civilizations, everyone comes off poorly.
It's a quick, fairly enjoyable read, but Mister Johnson's character at times feels too much like a caricature... But then again, it is a book about an African written by an Englishman. I suppose you'll have that.
Remarkably fresh though entirely of it's time.
3 1/2 stars
Unfortunately had the displeasure to read this book at school. Would be the most BORING book I have ever read.
I have read this but I ought to reread it since ALL that I remember is I liked it quite a bit. Why I do not remember.
Charity shop random pick
Really enjoyed the interesting complex character and plot development, tells a lot about different imperial master/slave relationships. It was sad and enjoyable
The reader is alternately sympathetic and exasperated with the title character, who sometimes behaves as if he inhabits an alternate mental universe that just occasionally has tangential contact with ours.There is a lot racism in the book, enough to make the reader uncomfortable in places.
The novel was published in 1939, and the author had spent time as a young man in the colonial civil service himself.
Some can’t get over the colonial mentality that suffuses the story; some find the portrayal of Johnson racist and demeaning.
