https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/417780.Why_Mosquitoes_Buzz_in_People_s_Ears
Verna Aardema’s playful narrative and Leo and Diane Dillon’s colorful and vibrant illustrations make this book an instant treat for children and adults alike.
The story of how a mosquito’s lie eventually causes chaos in the forest and the unfortunate death of one of Mother Owl’s owlets is an extremely dramatic moment in this book and it teaches children how lying can affect other people in a negative way, whether it involves the person having a bad reputation because of the lie or it results in someone getting seriously hurt in a physical or a mental way.
I don't usually write reviews, but this is one of my favorite books. I use it every year in my class to teach about community. Specifically, how the actions of one member of the community can adversely affect others. The language and the pictures are awesome, too!
আফরিকান রুপকথা।একজনের আচরণ, সমাজে অনযের উপরও পরভাব ফেলে/ফেলতে পারে ; সেটাই গলপাকারে উপসথাপন করা হয়েছে।
আফ্রিকান রুপকথা।একজনের আচরণ, সমাজে অন্যের উপরও প্রভাব ফেলে/ফেলতে পারে ; সেটাই গল্পাকারে উপস্থাপন করা হয়েছে।
Another story from my youth. About a careless lie that leads to death and a near eternal night. For the kids.
ইলাসটরেশনওয়ালা ভারসন পেলাম না অনেক খুঁজেও! :(
ইলাস্ট্রেশনওয়ালা ভার্সন পেলাম না অনেক খুঁজেও! :(
1976 Caldecott MedalThis folk tale is written in a cumulative or a chain format, similar to other popular children's books such as: Their Was an Old Woman Who Swallowed a Fly, This is the House that Jack Built, and The Napping House. I think it could open up some great discussion on the effects our behavior can have on those around us, being honest, and taking time to communicate. I only wish the illustrations were done better. They fit the story, but they just didn't feel engaging enough.
How a lie has a dreadful consequence!
This has fun art and loads of animals, but the story fell a bit flat with me. All of the animals, excepting the rabbit, seemed to overreact, and I just don't think the mosquito should have born the burden of the punishment for everyone's absurd behavior. The story could be used to mentor about unintended consequences and overreactions by an engaged parent though.Picture book folktaleGrades: PreK - 5Ages: 3-10Lexile Measure: AD770LDRA Level: 30Themes: African animals, African folktales, lying, unintended consequences
Summary and Critique:This west African tale uses all of the key features of a modern folktale, including talking animals, personification, and the explanation of naturally occurring events.
I would love to use this book as a leeway into having students write their own explanation of why a natural event occurs.
The subsequent page explains that said animal was not to blame and the pattern repeats until it is traced back to the pesky mosquito.Classroom use:I would incorporate this book into a unit about folklore around the world.Genre: FolkloreFormat: Picture BookReading level: Grades 3-4Theme: Animals, BlameTopic: Explaining animal behaviorsGender, race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status: Because this is an African folktale, it presents African individuals as the majority.
This is a fun story, along the lines of "There was an old lady who swallowed a fly..." And our girls said it reminded them of Crazy Alphabet by Lynn Cox. In any case, it's a story that builds upon itself one creature at a time. It's fun to read aloud and the illutrations are angular and look almost primitive. We really enjoyed reading this book together.This book was selected as one of the books for the October 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I got this book when I was a kid, but I didn't care for the illustrations so I don't think I ever read it.Well, approximately twenty years later I have read it to my five year old child, and I still don't like it. Now, as an adult, I like the pictures. They are not typical cute drawings, but they are interesting. Now I don't care for the story--it's rather boring and involves the death of an owlet and its mourning mother. Worth reading once, but not worth buying. (Luckily our copy is from the library!)
A great educational book for your children over the preschool age. My 5 yr old loved it. Lots of good information with beautiful pictures that will help keep children engaged. Aardema is wonderful for an addition to a geography or history lesson. And this one is a Caldecott award winner so it's worth the read for the illustrations alone. A great addition to any children's library.
loved this book!!!
Why Mosquitoes Buzz in People’s Ears is a Caldecott Award winning picture book written by Verna Aardema and illustrated by Leo and Diane Dillon.
In this pourquoi tale, the author retells an African story of how the mosquito developed its habit of buzzing.
And then, the readers learn why mosquitoes buzz in people’s ears…The artwork in this picture book is magnificent.
In addition to its appealing artwork, Why Mosquitoes Buzz in People’s Ears teaches a universal moral.
Therefore, I think that this picture book can be implemented to teach cause and effect relationships.
In this West African folk tale, a mosquito's lie makes the iguana grumpy, setting off a chain of events in the jungle that answers the question of why mosquitoes buzz in people's ears.
This book would be great for elementary age children.
This book could be used in a folk tale unit or as a funny read aloud on a camping trip.
This book could also be viewed as a cautionary tale of the perils of stretching the truth or lying.
Viewing it as a cautionary tale does make it a darker story overall and may be frightening to some children.
This book would be great for grades 1-6.
Not only could the students catch on to the patterns near the middle-end of the story, but they could predict what is going to happen as the mosquito and the rest of the animals make their decisions.
This book is also a great book to teach cause and effect.
The animals' actions are the perfect example of "if this, then that", "because of this, this happened." I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that the pictures were beautiful as well.
We read this one today to follow up after reading the version by Verna Aardema illustrated by Jan Brett included in Childcraft #1 Once Upon A Time (1988). We enjoyed discussing the emotions portrayed in the Dillon illustrations but all agreed we like the Jan Brett images and creatures more. I would love to have hers as a stand alone book version. This book is on many lists, but I bought it from Memoria Press' recommendation.
African myths feel more like folk tales. This one was very entertaining.
Genre: Non-Fiction children’s book, fable, Traditional literatureRecommended Grade Levels: K-3Themes: Cause and effect, community, animalsSummary: In this book, a mosquito sets off a chain of events by telling a piece of information to an iguana that the iguana considered a tall tale. Because of this, the iguana puts sticks in his ears so he can’t hear anything else and walks away, not greeting the python as passes by. The python thinks that the iguana is upset at him and hides in the rabbit hol
Genre: Non-Fiction children’s book, fable, Traditional literatureRecommended Grade Levels: K-3Themes: Cause and effect, community, animalsSummary: 	In this book, a mosquito sets off a chain of events by telling a piece of information to an iguana that the iguana considered a tall tale.
However, this story provides a reason as to why mosquitoes buzz in people’s ears.
Once the book is read, students may be given the challenge of a STEM project, building in teams a structure out of toothpicks only.
The students may conclude this STEM time with a demonstration of each structure being demolished and a discussion on how one action can affect many other people around us.
Why Mosquito’s Buzz in People’s Ears by Verna Aardema and illustrated by Leo and Diane Dillon is a sweet read about an West African tale.
The animals in the pictures gave a playful read to the reader as they looked like cutouts or coloring book drawings.
This book would be a great read for grades 1st and 2nd.
Make sure to gather children in a circle and whisper a sentence to the child on your left or right.
This would then lead to a great discussion about what happened to the original message.

The story begins with two characters talking, an iguana and a mosquito.
The snake entering the rabbit hole terrifies the rabbit, so the rabbit runs out and a crow, seeing the rabbit row, starts alarming the monkeys of possible impending danger.
The author points out on the very last page that this story is a folktale that originates from West Africa.
The theme, reflecting back to how the mosquito's lie cause a domino effect with all of the animals, is to remain truthful and that lies can have major consequences.
It all starts when Mosquito was telling Iguana such a big lie that he placed two sticks in his ears not wanting to hear more of it.
Iguana passed by a python, still with the two sticks on his ears.
Whenever he does that, he gets an honest answer… KPAO Why Mosquitoes Buzz in Peoples Ears is a folktale because it includes in the story it’s four parts.
The third thing it includes is that it must have a theme, in this folktale the theme is why mosquitoes buzz in peoples ears.
New York: Puffin Books.In this story that takes place in Africa, a mosquito flies over to an iguana to tell him about a yam that was being pulled out by a farmer.
The iguana thought the mosquito was telling a huge lie, so he plugged his ears so that he wouldn’t have to hear the lies anymore.
Will the mosquito be punished for telling lies that led to the death of baby Owl?
Why do mosquitos buzz in people’s ears?This story is set in Africa, but it is a traditional fable that could be translated into several other cultures.
What happened next was a chain of repercussions that led to the death of an owlet and the sun no longer rising."So, it was the mosquito who annoyed the iguana, who frightened the python, who scared the rabbit, who startled the crow, who alarmed the monkey, who killed the owlet - and now Mother Owl won't wake the sun so that the day can come." The mosquito never does come forward, and so the tale goes, that when a mosquito buzzes in your ear, it's actually trying to find out if everyone is still angry with him for what happened.At first glance, the colorful imagery draws the reader into the story.
This text can be used to teach students about the importance of not spreading rumors as well as teach them about the consequences of saying things that are not true, even if you didn't "start" the rumor.
Nowadays students often say things not understanding the value or affect their words have on other people.
I chose this book as a WOW book because I love the meaning behind the story.
The pictures are also great and it teaches the students the history of stories before they were ever published in books.
The reason is that the mosquitos want to get noticed, because the other animals don’t want to talk to him because he is annoying, so the mosquitos gets in the ears and cries, “Buzz.” All the other animals wanted to punish the mosquito, because the mosquito caused the death of one of Mother Owls Owlets.
The reason is that the mosquitos want to get noticed, but nobody listens to the mosquito, so the mosquitos get in the ears and cry, “Buzz.” All the other animals wanted to punish the mosquitos, because the mosquito caused the death of one of Mother Owls Owlets.
1. Book summary, in your own words (3 pts)Why Mosquitoes Buzz in People’s Ears is a Caldecott Metal Book.
It is a cute little folk tale about a mosquito annoying and iguana.
From there, it is like a domino effect passing down from one animal to the next explaining why mosquitoes buzz in people’s ears.
Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)This would be a book I would use to teach students about folk tales.4.
Small group use (literature circles) (1 pt)This would be a good book for students to practice reading to each other in literature circles.
“Why Do Mosquitoes Buzz In Peoples Ears” was about a mosquito that said to an iguana a big lie told an iguana a big lie, so the iguana put one stick in each ear so that he wouldn’t hear for not hearing anymore lies.
When she got home she started crying, and because of that, she didn’t wake up the sun(This was the problem in the folktale).
In the end, they blamed mosquito, they blame him for making all this problem start.“Why Do Mosquitoes Buzz In Peoples Ears” is a folktale because: First it has no author.
“Why Mosquitoes Buzz in People’s Ears” is an African folk tale that attempts to provide an explanation for why, in fact, mosquitoes buzz near people ears—it is that they a cursed with a guilt conscious about the drama that have caused.
The death causes the owl mother to go into mourning over the loss of her baby, and she is unable to “wake” the sun up in the morning so it will shine brightly.
The mosquito is never caught to receive his punishment, so now he buzzes in people’s ears to get rid of his guilt and see if anyone is still mad at him.
