https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/955942.The_River_of_Adventure
In this series i always love how Enid describes all the delicious meals they have! Don't u all agree?
Suka. Seru. Senang juga bisa berpesiar keluar negeri selama dua minggu. Saya suka Oola. Kasihan, dia dipukuli pamannya dan badannya kurus kering. Dia setia sekali pada Phillip yg sudah menyelamatkannya.
A bit of a different sort of adventure for an Enid Blyton book, as she rarely ventures outside of Europe, but there you go. Of course Philip, Jack, Lucy Ann and Dinah solve a mystery, discover a valuable historical treasure, and capture the baddie. All in a days work with help from Kiki and a Bargua snake. Love this series, but this wasn't the best of them. Still, it's Enid, so five stars!
my favourite quote:"It was pretty tough at times," said Jack. "The girls were marvellous. Good as boys any day."This was such an unusual compliment from Jack that both the girls stared in surprise.
This was a great book! even though i did read this out of order, i am really hooked on this series! can't wait to read the rest :) i really like Enid's writing !
Horeeee....diterbitkan ulang oleh GPU
Like generations of children I fell in love with reading largely due to Enid Blyton and she hasn’t lost the ability to enchant.
The eighth and last in the Adventure series and very conveniently after having had a bad bout of influenza Dinah, Philip, Jack, and Lucy-Ann (accompanied by Kiki, the parrot) are sent away on vacation on doctor’s orders for convalescence - cue an adventure.
I love the way she includes the wildlife including a major part for Kiki, the parrot.
An example of the attitudes of the time is the fact that Tala, despite being an adult, meekly follows the lead of the occidental children.I found the book quite entertaining, although the bad guy, initially promising, turned out to be rather useless and pathetic.
I have to admit that, when reading Enid Blyton's children adventures, I tend to prefer the ones set in the UK (with the exception of The Mountain of Adventure, which is one of Blyton's best).
I have the impression that the ones set far away tend to be more far-fetched, less grounded, and in general with less of Enid's enjoyable landscape descriptions.
Reasonably enjoyable, but mostly a rehash of earlier books in the series without being so well realised.
The couple of new elements I enjoyed were the snake charming (this must have been the book that first told me the truth about that), and Aunt Allie (or Bill's wife, as her name is now) finally showing some character when she comes to Oola's defence.
It was annoying that this time it took even more than half the book for the adventure actually to get started, and only then because the characters allowed themselves to get lured into it by being unbelievably stupid.
Philip, Jack, Dinah and Lucy-Ann were on another adventure in Syria.
When They got flu, and the doctor recommended they go where there are sunshine and water.
Bill was sent to Syria, a perfect holiday destination for the children, to watch Raya Uma, a smart robber.
But when Bill and their mother is kidnapped by Raya Uma, they had to do something.
The challenge they had to take is to save Bill and their mother.
What I don't like about this book is that there is a little bit of child abuse.
What I like about this book though, is that the children had a lot of adventure.
The final book in the series and is quite a good one.
I think it was probably a good idea to end the series here as I am not sure how many more times Bill could lead his family into trouble!
This one of the series is a little shorter than the others which is probably a good thing as the story is a little thin.
The Valley of Adventure remains my favorite and always will be it is definitely the best, I don't think I read the River as a child but I am glad I read this.
I am looking forward to sharing these stories with my son.
While good overall I felt like we were rehashing bits of old plots. Mr Uma was too similar to the evil uncle in Ship, the cave of treasure too similar to Valley. My children still enjoyed it and continue to find Kiki hilarious but the series has ended up being a bit too formulaic.
Such an enjoyable seriesCan hardly believe I am at the end. This was a fitting end as the gang found themselves battling the roguish Uma. The joy comes not only from the main characters, Oola was a real star.
Really really really loved the book. Perfect for kids or young teens, even adults. Once you start reading, you can't keep it down. Have read only two of the series and this was my first one. Inspired me to read them all and also become a writer when I grow up....
Brought back wonderful childhood memories! It was a nice, easy read apart from the usual complaints that I have for every Enid Blyton book (the children have all the luck in the world; the children are willingly thrown into dangerous situations by parents/guardians)
The last book of the series, and yes I think this is one of the better ones. Mainly because I find the story just flows better.
This one is not rich in settings like circus of Adventure where story movies from city to countryside to foreign country to circus to castle.
Most of this story takes place along a river.
Initially story is fun - visiting an exotic place with family.
During the second part of the story when the children are on their own with native adult Tala, one sees a trace of imperialistic attitude in Phillip.
So Phillip makes a wrong choice going against Tala's advice just to put Tala in his place.
But just in case someone reads all my reviews and then starts the series.
For me, this is definitely the weakest book in the 'Adventure' series.
The setting of the middle-eastern river is not as vividly or as excitingly realised as most of the others, and nothing happens in the story that we have not basically seen in the series already.In the previous book, we were forced to endure Bill walking headlong into a very obvious trap.
Not only is this bad for Jack, who is forced to relinquish his leadership and become a slightly different (and weaker) character, but it's also bad for Philip, who suddenly starts talking like a pompous twit all the time!
Maksud hati mengumpulkan kembali koleksi "seri petualangan", apalagi ada cover baru (meski lebih seneng cover lama), eh akhirnya jadi baca lagi.
Enid Blyton memang kagak ade matinye dah!Buku ini adalah judul terakhir "seri petualangan".
Kisah Jack, Dinah, Philip, Lucy-Ann bersama Bill (ayah tiri Philip & Dinah) serta Bu Cunningham di sebuah negara di Timur Tengah (tak begitu jelas negara mana).
Awalnya Bill ditugaskan sebagai intel.
Sebagai 'cover' Bill pun mengajak anak-anak, sekaligus sebagai liburan agar anak-anak makin fit dari penyakit flu.
Di negeri tersebut, mereka bertemu dengan Pak Uma, kota Fellem, Tala, Oola, ular Bargua, dan rangkaian petualangan yang seru dan mendebarkan.
Okay so this was too bad for Enid.I meant I have read hundreds of her books but this one is just,yea
Jack, Lucy Ann, Phillip dan Dinah yang baru sembuh dari sakit diajak ibu mereka dan Bill berlibur ke Afrika untuk pemulihan. Sekaligus sebagai tameng Bill dalam melakukan penyelidikan terhadap seorang bandit bernama Raja Uma. Tapi Raja Uma ternyata sangat licin, kegiatan mereka diketahui olehnya dan kemudian mereka menawan ibu mereka dan Bill. Untunglah mereka berempat dapat lolos dan lalu memutuskan untuk mencari dan menyelamatkan ibu mereka dan Bill. Sayangnya, mereka malah tersesat ke suatu tempat yang tidak diduga, dan juga merupakan tempat tujuan kejahatan Raja Uma.
Another in this series that does not rank among my favorites, but still quite good. Certain portions of the story are highly unbelievable, especially when read as an adult rather than a child.The four children has just recovered from influenza, and the doctor suggests a holiday in the sun, which fits in perfectly with Bill's latest assignment. As they cruise down the Abencha river they encounter mysterious occurrences, starting with "Sinnytown", which isn't on the map.
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Adventure Series is 8 books long) Features 4 friends who fall into adventures with counterfeiters, gunrunners, treasure hunters and the like. Jack, Philip, Diana, and Lucy-Anne and their crazy talking parrot, KIKI, are a lot of fun to follow through their adventures... This series is top notch reading... introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
I read this as a child and despite loving the other books in the series I found this one extremely patronizing. It's so obvious the author knew next to nothing about the Middle East and the characters seem a cheap caricature of Indians with snake charmers and oddly behaving natives. (I mean the real India here and not the erroneously called Red Indians.) I'm sure even Indians will find it insulting though.
Insipid..EB must have written this when in a bad mood. Too many pricks of racialism and looking down upon anyone not British - I was angry with the kids, their parents and all the characters in the book in general.The 4 kids and the irritating parrot Kiki, are on a boat adventure this time as Bill is send to investigate a smuggler in a remote country and the children are recouping from a bad flu. Bill needs them as he is planning to go incognito as a family man.
The final book in Enid Blyton's Adventure series is set in the middle east. Bill is now married to Philip and Dinah's mother, and takes her and the children on a trip down a river in a large comfortable boat with a driver who also prepares their meals. Along the way they meet a native boy who's being abused by his boss, a snake charmer, and he stows aboard their boat. The children eventually get separated from the adults, and go off in a small boat to find them, and find treasure and danger.
I have read this book so many times since my childhood that I almost have it memorized. Jack, Philip, Lucy Ann, Dinah, and Kiki the parrot are off on another of their wild adventures. This time they are careening down a river, into a hidden cavern, and discovering lost treasure. It's a journey not to be missed!
A slight cop out to include this in my 35 books, as I read it with the kids, but I genuinely had never read it before, so I am going to count it. In terms of quality, not the best in the series, a series I hugely enjoyed as a child. In fact, this series does not really bare up to rereading as a adult, give me the Five Find Outers any day!
This was my first book and this was the book that helped me learn the skill of reading books.It kept my attention throught,what i could not believe was that for the first time i had finished the book in two sits.It has so many twist that you have the curiosity to continue reading...especially in the climax.My all time favourite, a must to read book for starters.
My favourite of the 'Adventure' series. I was obsessed with Enid Blyton's books when I was little and love them to this day. I absolutely love Kiki and her impersonations. A must for any child (or adult who wants to relive their childhood...)
