https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2122.The_Fountainhead
Ultimately it's easy to see in novels like this one why Rand is so perfect for late teenagers, but why she elicits eye rolls by one's mid-twenties; because Objectivism is all about BEING RIGHT, and DROPPING OUT IF OTHERS CAN'T UNDERSTAND THAT, and LET 'EM ALL GO TO HELL AS FAR AS I'M CONCERNED, without ever taking into account the unending amount of compromise and cooperation and sometimes sheer altruism that actually makes the world work.
This book is the equivalent of a drunk, eloquent asshole talking to you all night at a bar.
It's all bullshit, and his arguments defending, say, his low-key but all-consuming misogyny aren't that good and don't even really make sense, but just for a second you find yourself thinking, "Huh, the man might have a point..." before you catch yourself and realize that no, he is just an asshole.
Ayn Rand goes there while remaining perfectly true to her Objectivism bullshit.
At least the drunk might buy you a drink.
Ayn Rand would probably object to it on philosophical grounds.
The conversation with the dean, who tried to persuade Roark to come back into the fold, represents the central theme of the book, the conflict between those who are realitycentered against those who define their lives through the eyes of other people.
The villain of the book is Ellsworth Toohey, an architectural critic of note, who denounces Roark for his failure to adhere to the accepted standards of the day.
Frankly, I cannot understand how conservatives can be so enamored of this work that celebrates independence and the rejection of tradition and “normal” morality.
THIS HORROR STORY IS TO SCARY FOR ME IT HAS A CREEPY GINGER KID AND HE RAPES ANN COULTER BECAUSE SHE WANTS HIM TO!!1! THEN THEY HAVE A LOT OF TICKLE FIGHTS AND BUILD SUM HOUSES THATS ALL i REMEMBER.
The most important thing of a man's character is his Integrity, that is what holds him true to himself and gives him courage to fight everything else in this world.Society and the second handers always keep on trying to make others a second handers and they will never let them do something which they were not able to do.It is the man's own Ego which gets him thru.It is the love of his work which makes him happy.But the society teaches him that everything that makes him happy is a sin and he shall never be a happy person.But it is a man's basic right to be happy and the general world calls it his Selfishness."...It was the only thing I ever really wanted.
As philosophy, I found it circular, wholly unfounded, and completely contradicting reality.This book is like a net set for unsuspecting minds.
It breaches their defenses with a twisted logic, attempting to preclude any conclusions but the ones it sets forth.Of course, it follows a natural flow from the author's assumptions: power, will, and self-determinism are the foundations of all life.
In that case, I'd encourage you to read those authors instead, but ultimately come to the (correct) conclusion that the three aforementioned assumptions are a load of bullshit.
If you don't believe this stuff, don't waste your time on this book.
Let me begin by saying that after reading this, and especially after reading her novel Atlas Shrugged, that I do not much like Ms Rand.
Many archetypal characters, very influential; how many insidious modern day villains began as Ellsworth Toohey, how many strong silent idealists descend from the Howard Roark model?I can see how someone would consider this a five star book, maybe even consider that this is a favorite book, but looking back, while accounting for the strength and quality of her narrative, I cannot say that I loved it, and I still don't like Rand.
You read “The Fountainhead” because many other readers have, before you; its a book as popular as “One Hundred Years of Solitude.” This awful novel begins strong, climaxes early (no pun intended) with an insipid rape scene, then’s all downhill.
The impulse to read on, however, IS there, just as the direction of the novel becomes hopeless & it becomes a harrowing chore (since there are just so many other books out there to choose from).
OK Ayn, if it is indeed individualism that defeats pathetic altruism to the ground, why then make your main characters such animatrons?
Never had I had this disgusting, sour taste in my mouth (The Ayn Rand Experience...
Odd, boring, lame, wretched experience!
that's not what's holding you back from greatness...It reminds me of how so many students "really relate" to Holden Caulfield, when the real Holden would think they were total phonies.To be fair, Rand's ideas about the supremacy of self-reliance, the false comfort of altruism, the exaltation of a gritty and decidedly male competence, the sublimeness of pure laissez-faire capitalism...
However, they are put on a ridiculously high and isolated pedestal in Rand's work.If children did not exist in this world and life was entirely about your career, maybe I could agree a little more.
Roark embodies what Rand believed to be the ideal man, and his struggle reflects Rand's belief that individualism is superior to collectivism.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دهم ماه آوریل سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: سرچشمه؛ نویسنده: آین راند؛ مترجم: مینا شریفی ثابت؛ تهران، نشر آبی، 1379؛ در 1063 ص؛ داستانهای نویسندگان روس آمریکایی - سده 20 مسرچشمه، داستان یک آرشیتکت نابغه، با دقت وسواسگونه است، که از عدم درک، و راحت طلبی دیگران، به تنگ آمده است.
او را بزهکاری انگاشتند که از یکی از شیاطین، رازی را که از بشر پنهان شده بود، دزدیده و برملا ساخته است، اما این کار او باعث شد که انسانها خود را گرم کنند، خوردنیها را بپزند و غارهاشان را روشن سازند(...).
yesterday i spent the day mainlining bookface and discovered that one of the most reviled books on the site was the fountainhead. i can think of a few reasons:1) it feels good (perhaps a marker of personal progress?) to reject or condescend to that which we once loved. (see also: catcher in the rye and on the road)2) those (the overwhelming majority of bookfacers) who fall on the liberal end of the spectrum find the residual conservative drool all over the book a bit yukky?3) the philosophy is u
(see also: catcher in the rye and on the road)2)	those (the overwhelming majority of bookfacers) who fall on the liberal end of the spectrum find the residual conservative drool all over the book a bit yukky?3)	the philosophy is unrealistic; the characters are stand-ins, mouthpieces, wooden fantasy archetypes; the plot is full of contrivances; at its best the prose is serviceable, at worst, it's cringeworthy.4)	its themes of personal accountability scare the shit out of people.
and as i grew up i realized that along with the personal accountability part and the urging on to remain an individual despite societal pressure to conform (both of which i still appreciate), was a good degree of selfishness and unreality.
I was meeting my partner/wife for a weekend of Shakespeare plays, good food and theoretical love making (which never happened), and I was having a final cast party at our home after the summer production of one of my plays.
She was at her family reunion, and at the time I had no idea she was with her lover (I later discovered that their affair had spanned countries and years); I felt paradoxical Catholic guilt for my pseudo-adultery and the liberation of being freshly in love as I sat at my backyard pool and let my feet brush C---'s in the cool water under the moonlight.That night she told me of her love for Ayn Rand's Fountainhead, a book I'd long ignored, supposing it and its politics were not for me.
This book is easily described as garbage. Poorly imagined, poorly conceived and poorly written it is only exceptional in the lengths it will go to justify the morally, ethically and socially reprehensible behavior of the central character who's vaunted genius amounts in the end to nothing more than being a willful disobedient ass. He is neither original or exceptional, he is simply an ass, and is treated as an object of admiration for it. A thoroughly disgusting piece of writing.
I maintained a complete disinterest in architecture before reading the book, but still found myself actively engaged while Rand discussed the matter.
In fact, she grinds it in as thoroughly and as clearly as she can.The book provides us with Howard Roark as Rand's idea of an ideal man.
All that which proceeds from man’s dependence upon men is evil.”The book is full of weaker people like Peter Keating.
Through Roark and Keating, Rand asserts that dependence upon other men is evil in nature.
He can't do what he desires, as he is constantly worried about how others think of him.In a world where self-interest is ideal, acts of altruism are counterproductive and should be despised.
They were pointless personal questions—strange to ask about a man of whom he had never heard before.“Does he laugh often?”“Very rarely.”“Does he seem unhappy?”“Never.”“Did he have many friends at Stanton?”“He’s never had any friends anywhere.”“The boys didn’t like him?”“Nobody can like him.”“Why?”“He makes you feel it would be an impertinence to like him.”“Did he go out, drink, have a good time?”“Never.”“Does he like money?”“No.”“Does he like to be admired?”“No.”“Does he believe in God?”“No.”“Does he talk much?”“Very little.”“Does he listen if others discuss any ...
It would be better if he didn’t.”“Why?”“It would be less insulting—if you know what I mean, when a man listens like that and you know it hasn’t made the slightest bit of difference to him.”“Did he always want to be an architect?”“He..,”“What’s the matter, Peter?”“Nothing.
If I were to suspect the artist of having written out of passion and in passion, my confidence would immediately vanish, for it would serve no purpose to have supported the order of causes by the order of ends.~ SartreIt is not literature. It is not philosophy. It lacks any understanding of how an economy functions. A childish affirmation of pure entitlement. It is just a rant told through a really bad piece of fiction.Ayn Rant.+++(the 4 stars rating was given at a very early and impressionable age)
There's a certain kind of gentleman who comes to my reviews and says: "WRONG!"which is seriously what some dude led with just today, and I play a game with people like this; the game is, go to their profiles and find the five-star review of Ayn Rand.
No one should read Atlas Shrugged and in fact no one ever has.Listen, Ayn Rand's entire philosophy comes down to "I'm an asshole." If you disagree with that assessment, well, you know that old saying - "If you can't spot the sucker at the poker table, it's you"?
this review is bizarrely getting votes from people i don't know, so let me just reiterate that the text of the prediction is from mcsweenys, in case it's not clear that all i did was a little cutting and pasting.instead of reading this book, just read ayn rand's superbowl prediction in mcsweeney's and you'll get the idea:When he saw Bill Belichick in the hallway before the press conference, Tom Coughlin's face contorted into a whine.
"Why, Tom," he asked with a smile, "isn't winning what the NFL is all about?"Coughlin's face turned bright red as he flapped his effeminate hands in hysterical gestures.
Her philosophy is most succinctly expressed by her architect hero Howard Roark, who says, “All that which proceeds form man’s independent ego is good.
All that which proceeds from man’s dependence upon men is evil.” Rand's philosophy stands in stark contrast to the collectivism which was then sweeping the world in an ocean of blood.
The story drew me in at first, and then began to lose me for several chapters, as Rand breaks one of the rules of good structure and does not begin developing a main character until over half way through the novel.
I once broke up with someone because she was an ardent follower of Ayn Rand. it just started bothering me more and more, and I started seeing the taint of Objectivism in so many of her comments. mind you, this was in college when i was much more obnoxiously political. after we broke up, she turned around and started dating my roommate... sweet revenge, and a fitting response from an Objectivist.
Egads, I hate this book.
I first read it 6 years ago when I was 16, and I thought to myself, this book is an enormous pile of compressed dog feces.
However, because I'm aware of the fact that our judgement at the age of 16 is not necessarily quite so excellent as most of us liked to think it was, I decided recently to reread it, and see if I understood what other people saw in this book.
Based on everything I've heard about Rand, from her supporters, her detractors, or in interviews with the author herself, I feel there is no reason to believe that this book or any of her others contain anything that is worth reading, not even as 'cautionary example'. Since my goal here is to read as many good books as possible and to do my best to avoid bad ones, I'm going to be giving Rand a wide berth.
I read it at the right time- that time when the body is young and capable of only genius and having unapologetic mind sex on philosophical rooftops with someone else as young and genius sounds like the highest good...or at least better than making out in a Sunday School room while your parents are at choir practice.At 17 I thought this Earth-shaking and sexy.
I thought it a moral imperative to try to get my little revolutionary hands on everything she ever wrote and by doing so stumbled right into the pit of Objectivism.
I hated Anthem so much that I vowed never to read another book by Ann Rand, but I still talk about how much I hate all of her other books, too.
Everything I've seen by her is badly written and I don't like badly written books.b) Ayn Rand thought she was a philosopher and injects her silly "objectionist" point of view into all her books.
She wasn't a philosopher, however, no matter what her silly followers think.
Ayn Rand has clear lessons.e) Ayn Rand has such a knee-jerk, reactionary dislike of anything striking of collectivism that she makes Orwell look like a communist.
Ever read a book that changed your life as a kid, I mean totally reconfigured your perceptions of life and how it should be lived?
My hero was Roark and his rugged individualism and integrity.
Roark is a sociopathic monster whose integrity is blind and callous.
The Objectivism that Rand uses to undergird this story seems to find ethics of communities, or how we should act towards each other, repugnant.
She attempts to soften these granite facades with a love story, but Rand turns out to be inept at that too.
This book is probably dangerous for naive minds and too naive for adult minds.
(Update at end; latest is 2013-11-12)OK, I’ve got to explain this four-star rating, because I don’t want anyone to think I’d actually recommend this book...It has been many years since I’ve read either of Ayn Rand’s two doorstop books, and I can’t really recall the details of either.
Add Ayn Rand to this and you suddenly have the ingredients for a self-perpetuating sense of victimhood and entitlement.Most people have overcome their teenage angst and fantasies by, say, twenty-eight or so.
•       •       •       •       •       •       • Update, late summer 2012— Romney's selection of Ryan as his running mate has got folks chatting about Ryan's on-and-off obsession with Ayn Rand.
5 stars for being a ludicrously entertaining soap opera. The most lurid, overdone philosophical text I've ever read (probably because I haven't gotten to Atlas Shrugged yet).Whether you agree with Rand's ideas or not (please say you don't!), it's pretty damn entertaining to watch them played out via a cast of steely heroes and sniveling villains. The S&M sex scenes are probably the best part - objectivism in the bedroom.Worth reading for sure, if you can keep your head on your shoulders and not succumb to a 600-page argument full of pedantic speeches and flimsy straw men.
Ayn Rand is Nietzsche for stupid people
Với một chút lâng lâng, người đọc tự tạo nên một hình ảnh bất định về một mẫu người mới với tất cả những gì rõ ràng và không hề pha tạp.Điều tôi hơi không thích ở tác phẩm này đó chính là việc quá thần tượng hóa Roak.
Nhưng việc thần tượng hóa Roak đã tạo nên một hình ảnh rập khuôn về mẫu người siêu anh hùng.
Chẳng phải chính Roak đã luôn muốn phá vỡ những siêu anh hùng của quá khứ đó sao.
Ttôi đọc cuốn này từ năm 2 đại học, trước đó tôi còn giằng xé trong nội tâm câu hỏi "Tôi làai ?" mà đéo có người yêu, nhưng sau khi đọc xong cuốn này ,mụ Ayn Rand (mụ này rất nhiều anti fan, vì fan của mụ khá đôngđảo giống Sếp`ssss toàn bọn FA) đã tăng độ hoang tưởng cho tui,nên đến giờ cứ mỗi năm thêm FA, tôi lại thêm hoang tưởng mình là Howard Roark, Elon Musk và thoải mái ngồi chờ đợi nàng Dominique.
Đéo còn gì hãnh diện hơn khi được FA và nghĩ Thế giới ngu ngốc chừa mìnhra.Chúc các anh chị đọc kiên nhẫn và vui vẻ.
