https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23267628-the-fever-code
one word - NEWT
Why, why, whyyyyyy do I keep torturing myself with these novels? Deeeeeeep Breaths This book  added nothing of value  to the entire series. Why? Cause we're able to piece together the entire plot from blatantly obvious foreshadowing (or would that be back-shadowing?) from the original trilogy. Secret Government Agency to get rid of virus? Yup, figured that one out in the first book. Maze is designed by children? Hinted at and later confirmed in book 2. And on....and on.........and on............
This book 
Cause we're able to piece together the entire plot from blatantly obvious foreshadowing (or would that be back-shadowing?) from the original trilogy.
Yup, figured that one out in the first book.
Maze is designed by children?
Hinted at and later confirmed in book 2.
WHY is there a freaking MAZE used to solve a viral zombie infection?
I did (semi) enjoy reading about the childhood of the Maze Runner characters.
But the plot just soured everything for me.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
The one person that instantly came to my mind when I saw this book was Newt.Imagine this: Multiple POVs. Newt's desperate thoughts. Physical pain + psychological pain. (and double it all because he's my favorite)And me:
0.5) The Kill Order ★✰✰✰✰1) The Maze Runner ★★★✰✰2) The Scorch Trials ★★✰✰✰3) The Death Cure ★✰✰✰✰  “You look bloody fantastic for three in the morning.”  “WICKED was never going to stop. They were never, never going to stop.” Apparently, neither was Dashner. I have a strange attachment to this series, despite disliking most aspects of it. The Maze Runner was one of the first young adult series I read, so it’s a shame I have such negative opinions towards it now. The story itself is intriguing,
The Maze Runner was one of the first young adult series I read, so it’s a shame I have such negative opinions towards it now.
Although the last quarter of this novel picks up and we’re presented with some action, it unfortunately didn’t entice me, since I already lost nearly all interest in the plot, 200 pages prior the finale.A small revelation occurred in this novel that was never expressed in the other Maze Runner books – the Grievers’ stingers contain mutated variants of the Flare virus … and WICKED has an antidote for this.
I absolutely LOVE The Maze Runner so I was really excited to have (A) more time with Thomas, and (B) GET MORE ANSWERS WOOOO with this prequel.
But I just keep looking at this book and saying "HELLO WHAT'S THE POINT OF YOUR FACE???" Which is probably rude and I swear my mother raised me with manners but, ya know, I have my off days.ALSO NOTE:do not read this book before The Maze Runner.
It's chock full of spoilers for the original trilogy that'll make them actually rather anti-climatic.
Um. I sat here forever trying to figure out what I want the stars to be.
I will just go with the three star rating.
I LOVED reading about the group again and reading about how some of them were taken and their ages.
Those WICKED people really are evil.
I'm guessing they picked the right name.
I mean we all know what happens, at least the ones that have read the Maze Runner books but that was just cold.
But, I still liked to see where it all came from, the before of where they were when they landed in the maze.
We get insight into Thomas and Teresa's lives as they grow up within WICKED and all the brain washing that comes with it .
We get to meet all the characters from the original trilogy - all before they enter the maze.It was really interesting to view things from this perspective, to watch the build up to the maze trials and to see how involved Thomas and Teresa were and how their mindsets changed over time.With all the action and drama we've come to expect from the maze runner books, this was a welcome addition and it has made me want to go back and reread all the trilogy again!
"Tell me that we’ll survive this,” he said when he could finally get the words out.
“Tell me that we’ll get in there, and get our friends out.”“We will survive,” she replied.
However, this book was able to fill in some blanks from the previous ones: that was really satisfying.I find it ridiculous how every fucking character from the books was here too like Newt, Minho, Chuck, Alby, Thomas and Teresa were all friends before the maze?
Cute but really?Also, why does Dashner hate Teresa so much?
I love her anyways.(view spoiler)[YAY!
I got so tired of reading that Thomas was feeling alone and that he hated WICKED.
I did like to read about what happened in the maze before Thomas and Teresa came in.
But I liked reading about Thomas, Teresa and the others as children.
I hated how she never answered Thomas, was just trying to smooth talk things like killing 19 people, how she manipulated everything, how she used every single person as a test subject and for what becomes clear in the end.I loved Chucks role in this book.
Hold one...Wait a minute...Am I wrong or does it say this book will be published in two years?Is that a six?I think I need new glasses.Perhaps this is all a joke.Yeah....there's no way I can wait till 2016 to read it.Hell no!!
OH MY GOD JAMES YOU'RE THE BEST
Running toward this book is like...Give me.
The Maze Runner prequel we've all been waiting for.I should warn you, though...it wouldn't be a Dashner book without a few moments that make you go all...The original trilogy, those helped define the end of my time in high school and the start of my community college years (Death Cure having come out about a month after I started there.) Then came The Kill Order, which I loved when I first read it, but alone of the Maze Runner books, it's probably the only one I wouldn't re-read.When news broke that there would be a new prequel focusing on the Gladers we know and love, well, you can imagine I was just as overjoyed as anyone else in the fandom.After taking a few years to write The Mortality Doctrine, Dashner's finally given us The Fever Code in all its post-apocalyptic glory.
The book chronicles the conception of the WICKED organisation, as well as how Thomas, Teresa, Newt, and the rest of the beloved gang, came to be affiliated with it.As in the other books, the reader is invited into this near future vision of our world through the eyes of Thomas.
And knowing how hard each smile was fought for made every fleeting moment of happiness that much more precious for both reader and characters alike.By this alignment of emotion, it meant that as the novel progressed, the action increased, and the suspense rose in intensity, the reader was already placed firmly on one of the two opposing sides.
wow... that was definitely worth it. I was afraid it was going to be too short...I was afraid it was going to be repetitive..well it was everything but! I sincerely hope there will be another chapter!
Este libro necesitaba ser publicado en el 2014/15 y no la otra precuela insulsa. Después de tanto tiempo ya el interés por los personajes es casi nulo. El libro no llega a responder ni por asomo la cantidad de preguntas que te deja la saga, sino que te crea aún más incógnitas (lo cual no es malo, pero con podría haber respondido ALGUNAS preguntas, saben).Mucho relleno, fácilmente podría haber sido una novella corta o un libro de 150/200 páginas. No 400. Reseña completa en Gracias a los libros.
I cannot tell you just how much I needed this book. I loved it so much! I was left feeling all emotional after reading The Death Cure, this just brighten me all up. It was so cute that Newt, Minho, Thomas, Teresa, Chuck and Alby were friends before they got sent into the maze.I'm actually mad at myself for finishing it in a day. This is one of those books that should be read slowly but I just could not help myself.
Este libro me gusto bastante. Odié mil veces más a Teresa, a Brenda y la Dra Paige. Amé mil veces más a Newt, Minho, Chuck y Thomas. Cruel es una mierda, ya lo dije. James Dashner, por favor, nunca dejes de escribir sobre Thomas.
LITERALMENTE ESTOY GRITANDO DESDE HACE COMO UNA HORA...ESTOY TODAVÍA GRITANDO CADA VEZ QUE PIENSO EN ESE FINAL.La historia planteada en este libro es sobre la vida de Thomas antes de entrar en el laberinto.
Es que en verdad que las primeras 200 páginas no fluyen lo suficiente para un libro que se suponía tenía todas las respuestas.Pensé que tal vez contendría historias cortas de todos los larchos sobre cómo llegaron a CRUEL y cómo vivieron en el laberinto antes de la llegada de Thomas.
Hay muchos personajes en esta novela, pero para aquellos que han leído la serie The Maze Runner no será difícil recordar a los personajes, como Thomas, Teresa, Newt, Minho y Alby.
Well that was heart wrenching. Seeing my babies as babies basically killed me. ALSO, that ending changes EVERYTHING. I'm pretty sure I just stared at the book dumbfounded for a few minutes. Oh, and another thing. Chuck is my favorite. (Don't tell Brenda, she's my second favorite
ASDRTYHJKLPMNBVCXZI'M EXTREMELY HAPPYIT'S - SO - AMAZING!Dashner, i love you.
They were never never going to stop i feel like this book was the missing piece in this story but it still left me with so many questions that i need answered.
Thomas was one of the POV in the story and i finally learned what he was like in the early years before the Maze and during the beginning of the Maze been created by him and three other kids with the help from WICKED.
It was really enjoyable reading from Newts POV in the book because you got an insight to what his character is like and i feel like this book delved deeper in his character development then the trilogy ever did.
4.8/5 "Our plan is for this to be the command center for what we're calling the Maze Trials, as advance a facility as any research institution has ever had." SO MUCH IS EXPLAINED!I LOVED this book, finally the old group is back and this is where and when everything started.We meet our characters in here since their very beginning and very first interactions with WICKED.It was so informative, we discover everything that is related to the main purpose of why these mazes were created and we go trou

It really saddens me that the only book worth my time after the first one was the fifth entry in the series. As prequel to The Maze Runner, it gives a great insight of how the maze was built and some of the motivations the main characters follow.
Then, I read The Kill Order, the first prequel, some months later and I didn't appreciate it as much as I did with the trilogy.
Sometimes I preferred the movie (speaking of The Maze Runner) and sometimes I found the book just better (speaking, now, of The Scorch Trials).Then The Fever Code came out and, even if I still don't remember certain things about how the series ended, I HAD to read it.
And I'm so glad I did, since now by questions have been answered.It's another prequel and it takes place after The Kill Order and before The Maze Runner.
When I started this and found out it was going to be about Thomas and Teresa I was really nervous.
I loved The Maze Runner, I thought The Scorch Trials was quite good, but I was so disappointed by The Death Cure ....This was such a turn around from the last book and I am so happy to say it exceeded all my expectations!
I enjoyed watching Thomas and Teresa grow up and develop in WICKED headquarters.
It was really cool getting inside information on how WICKED came to be as well.
Everything that went on behind the scenes, who knew who before the Maze...
The only thing I want... NEWT
Outra coisa que me incomodou também é que a premissa seria mostrar a construção do labirinto, mas o livro não mostra quase nada???
O livro se passa durante 10 anos, e essa transição de tempo não é feita da melhor forma, com saltos preguiçosos que evitam mostrar coisas que podiam ser interessantes.Além de tudo, a gente tem uma coleta de informações velhas repetidas, mas que foram jogadas de modo forçado, como se a aparição de um personagem da trilogia arrecadasse aplausos de quem tá lendo...
Another book to add to my beloved series!Thomas looked up at his group of friends, then looked at Chuck."A man once gave us a message that we'll never forget," he said.
I think we need to remember to look at the big picture."- I'm really happy that this book was released after I read the whole series because I don't think I would have enjoyed the many plot twists if I read this beforehand!- THOMAS!
They make this series so great and I was happy to see them all again.- James Dashner is still a brilliant writer.- The epilogue contains a huge plot twist.
Salah satu alasan yang membuat saya tidak bersemangat untuk membacanya adalah karena kekecewaan terhadap buku sebelumnya, yaitu The Kill Order.
Saya hanya melihat kehidupan Thomas didalam markas WICKED yang monoton dengan hanya sedikit petualangan yang tidak terlalu mengejutkan.Terdapat banyak sekali tokoh-tokoh yang terdapat didalam novel ini, tapi bagi yang pernah membaca seri The Maze Runner tidak akan sulit untuk mengingat para tokohnya, seperti Thomas, Teresa, Newt, Minho dan Alby.
Aksi-aksi yang terdapat dalam novel ini juga lumayan banyak meskipun tidak sebagus dan semenarik The Maze Runner, tapi cukup mengobati rasa kangen saya terhadap petualangan Thomas dan teman-temannya.Selengkapnya : https://tmblr.co/Znxzkq2DqkEWP
