https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77612.Not_Quite_Dead_Enough
This book yokes together two long WW II era novellas featuring Major Archie Goodwin, specialist in domestic counter-intelligence.
In the first novella, "Not Quite Dead Enough," The U.S. government wants Wolfe to work with Archie on counter-intelligence too, but instead Wolfe is avoiding all brain work, immersed in dieting and weight-training, determined to transform himself into a lean, mean Nazi killing machine.
The Pentagon wants Archie to talk Wolfe some sense, but to no avail.
He found what can be best described as Nero Wolfe Goes to War. The whole idea of this and Archie's POV are very funny; they were the major deciding factor for the rating.
The technologies from companies that turned to the army are being sold to competitors and the main suspect seems to committed suicide (yeah, right!).
Nero Wolfe to the rescue!!!
As a whole this book is weaker than an average Nero Wolfe mystery.
The trap set by Nero Wolfe in the second story seems to be contrived and I see no reason it would work in real life.
An other great Nero Wolf mystry.
When the story opens he has been summoned to Washington where he is asked to go to New York and convince Wolfe to help the Army.
When Archie returns to the brownstone on West 35th Street he is shocked to find that not only is Wolfe not at home but that he is in training to fight Nazi's.
When the story opens Wolfe and Archie are on there way to one of these meetings.
If you have never read a Nero Wolfe story before you may want to check out one of the other books first.
The description of his training and his appearance at this time are worth the effort alone.Archie uses a case that his long-time friend, Lily Rowan, was trying to get him involved with to rekindle Wolfe's dormant detective skills as a way to move him from his focus on the infantry to intelligence.
The case isn't that interesting, really, but there are some fun characters.The second novella, Booby Trap shows us the Major acting as Wolfe's handler while he acts as a civilian consultant to the intelligence service.
NOT QUITE DEAD ENOUGH. (1942). Rex Stout. ***. This volume was actually a collection of two novellas, the title story and another called, “Booby Trap.” Stout was not at his best with the shorter novel form. Typically, he had to resolve all the issues in these shorter cases by introducing the “Ah Ha” ending, wherein the reader is suddenly introduced to Wolfe’s secret thinking all along. In the title story, we encounter Archie Goodwin in the Armed Forces – a Major, no less. He has been called to W
This volume was actually a collection of two novellas, the title story and another called, “Booby Trap.” Stout was not at his best with the shorter novel form.
Typically, he had to resolve all the issues in these shorter cases by introducing the “Ah Ha” ending, wherein the reader is suddenly introduced to Wolfe’s secret thinking all along.
Before Archie can really find out what’s going on, Ann is found dead in her apartment – strangled with one of her scarfs.
I’d recommend that readers stay with Stout’s novel forms for the best explication of Wolfe’s methods.
Otherwise you will be so turned off you'll never read another, and that really would not do.I know Stout made a living by his pen at a time when everyone had to contribute to the war effort or risk being branded a "Com Symp" or worse...in fact Wolfe deals with these things in other stories.
How could one of his "old" sweaters be big enough for Wolfe, even after several weeks of salad and"walking fast", even if he strained the buttons to tearing point?The only amusing aspect of the title yarn is the fact that the boarding house (called by one of its inmates "a bughouse") is on Barnum Street.
Another entry in the Nero Wolfe series which is actually two novellas rather than a single novel.In both, Archie is now in the military (WW2). In "Not Quite Dead Enough", Archie is taken from his normal duties and assigned to the task of getting Wolfe to agree to take a case for the army. Lily Rowan is chasing Archie and inadvertently provides Archie with the lever he needs to complete his assignment.In "Boobytrap", Archie is now permanently assigned to Wolfe and Wolfe is regularly consulted by the military.
FabulousNero Wolfe is one of the most entertaining detectives I have ever read. The stories are always intriguing and never boring.
To Archie's surprise, Wolfe is neither reading in his office nor up playing with his orchids, but is in fact 'training' to join the Army as a soldier so he can kill some Germans.
Archie is flabbergasted, and must figure out a way to convince Wolfe that he is far more useful to the Army as a brain than as a soldier.
unless Wolfe can figure out whodunit.As for the second story, well, with a title like 'Booby Trap', you probably already have a pretty good idea of what happens.
Really two in one, and neither is up to snuff.
It's as if Rex Stout took a couple of weekends out of his time working for FDR to do his thing for the war effort.
This proclivity in the entertainment sector led to some inspired works (Casablanca springs to mind as the ultimate best.) But this reminds me of the really bad Sherlock Holmes movies with Basil Rathbone chasing Nazis over the moors, and Agatha Christie's worst Tommy and Tuppence books.
I actually liked the plot of the first one, and had a good laugh when Archie got to say "...not quite dead enough." The military one: meh.
Lily Rowan can't stand the state of affairs since Archie joined the Army. He's not paying any attention to he! He wants to go into combat! The spoiled woman follows him on his stateside postings! Finally to Archie's disgust, he is given his marching orders: he is to manage Nero Wolfe, in NYC, for the duration. What's a guy gotta do to get a chance to die for his country? You'll find out what lengths Lily will go to to get her man's attention in "Not Quite Dead Enough". Bonus material: Nero Wolfe's diet and workout plan. LOL
Neither a novel nor a collection of short stories Not Quite Dead Enough is made up of two novelettes: Not quite dead enough and Booby Trap.
Neither has the tight writing of a short story and yet both feel rather bloated.
Stout needs to explain what Wolfe and Goodwin do during the war.
The first story explains how their wartime setup comes to be and the second shows them at work.
Both suffer from extremely obvious solutions and in neither case is the denouement satisfactory.
The first requires Lily Rowan to carry the idiot ball and the second requires members of the military to do so.
Another two story in one book. The title is for the first story, which could be summed up as murder reveals another murder. A sad story but one that seemed innocent at first and was used to get Wolfe back into normal working order. The second is Wolfe working to discover wrongdoing and a murderer within the military. This story reveals a lot about the mindset of the time... and both Archie and Wolfe show great patriotism.
Even if there wasn’t two good mysteries, this book would be worth reading just to see Nero Wolfe not being Nero Wolfe. Archie is in the army and Wolfe had decided he wants to enlist as a common soldier so he can kill German so he’s given up beer and fine dining to—brace yourself—exercise. Yet the army wants Wolfe solving national security problems for them and Archie has to figure out how to get Wolfe back to being Wolfe. This one’s a lot of fun.
Two novellas set during WWII find Archie in the army but still working along side of Wolfe. Not much Cramer or the usual supporting cast but still highly enjoyable. Wolfe’s continued hatred of Germans was a nice touch as was his plan to join the army. Stout’s mysteries are not who dunnits but rather vehicles to spend time with the characters. This edition acquits this goal quite nicely.
WWII and Archie is a Major in the Army Nero Wolf is "EXERCISING" wow
1) Not Quite Dead Enough - It's WWII and Archie Goodwin has joined the US Army and the army wants Wolfe.
Lily thinks she needs Nero Wolfe and in a short time, she really does because she's dead.
Wolfe does not want that thing in his house so makes him take it back to the army.
I was thinking from the amount of book left that the police hauling away the murderer in the first mystery was a red herring or ploy to make the real murderer relax and make a mistake.
The first, Not Quite Dead Enough, focuses on Archie's army ordered efforts to draw Nero Wolfe back to his house to concentrate on using his brain to solve mysteries.
The second story, Booby Trap, has Wolfe solving a mystery involving members of the army.
Archie is in the army, and Wolfe wants to be doing something.
Archie's description of Nero Wolfe's exercise routine made for some laughs.
With the story so short Wolfe solves the mystery before we even get a chance to attempt to guess at whodunit.
Perhaps, he could have combined the crime to get Wolfe back into the fold with his army work.
The title story sees Archie Goodwin in the Army as the United States enters WWII.
He's been ducking her as his Army business keeps him busy, but she's brought him the story of a friend of hers who may have some information on a murder.
Archie sees a way to light a fire under Wolfe, but things take a tragic turn...The second story, "Booby Trap", sees Archie and Wolfe working together for Army Intelligence.
Only Wolfe can answer that one.Not bad stories, and even moderately good Rex Stout is better than most writers on their best days, but this is not top rank Wolfe.
#10 in the Nero Wolfe series.
In this 1944 entry, Rex Stout continues to evoke a strong sense of historical period.
In the first entry Fer-de-lance (1934), Wolfe celebrated the repeal of prohibition by taste testing the available brands of beer.
In the current volume, The WWII era is seen with factotum Archie Goodwin serving as a Major in Army Intelligence - he does, however, manage to spend enough time in New York to assist Nero Wolfe when necessary.Nero Wolfe series - Two novellas, from 1942 and 1944, take place while Archie is a Major in the Army.
In "Not Quite Dead Enough", Archie uses the death of a young woman to goad Wolfe back into detective mode.
Wolfe is sure they are murders.
I liked the first story, "Not Quite Dead Enough," because I like the character Lily Rowan, and I like Archy as the Army Major.Booby Trap was good except right until the end.
I've come to terms with Wolfe's mysogynism as just a part of his personality, but what I never expected was that he could ever basically commit murder himself.
I lost a lot of respect for him, and for Archie for just sitting by and watching him do it.
Two novellas from WWII. Disliked this book as a teenager because of the abrupt tonal change from cozy peacetime office to Archie in uniform and Wolfe talking about killing Germans. After a couple more readings, I understand that this is one of the few of the series that has to happen at a specific time. The title novella is merely the setup, but the second ("Booby Trap") is the real deal. Watch what happens to Wolfe and Archie's misogyny and sexism (respectively) and wonder what the books are really about. The best mystery writer.
In my continuing pursuit of detective stories, I read this Nero Wolfe book. The U.S. is in WWII and Army Intelligence tries to recruit detective Nero Wolfe, but he wants combat duty. He is very inactive and rotund, so a big part of the story is concerned with his "self-imposed regimen of lettuce and long walks." He needs to stick with intelligence, which he does after his friend, Major Archie Goodwin, is arrested for murder.
'Booby Trap' was another Nero Wolfe mystery, also set during WWII. This time Wolfe and Archie Goodwin are asked by the military to track down some pink grenade prototypes that have gone AWOL from the Army.Typical of many mysteries, this was just a background story to develop the personality of the hero, Nero Wolfe. He's a smart guy that likes the good life (eating, gardening, talking) and is NOT BORING.
I love the Nero Wolf books, the writing, the dialogue...but I have to say this was my least favorite so far. WWII has changed the characters, which is reasonable, but perhaps changed them too much for my taste. You weren't led through the whole story, but are apparently thrown in halfway through an investigation. If you're a fan of Rex Stout, don't skip it...but if you're looking into reading this series, don't start with this one.
Two novellas featuring Nero Wolfe & Archie Goodwin in WW II--Does it get any better than this? Maybe not. I've been a big fan of Rex Stout for decades and I don't think I'll ever get tired of re-reading the Nero Wolfe mysteries. It's not so much the mysteries themselves that are that interesting, it's the two central protagonists and the cast of characters around them, such as the perpetually lovely and feisty Lily Rowan who's featured in the first of these tales, that make them evergreen.
3.5 starsThis book is actually two novellas:Not Quite Dead Enough- Guessed the killer. I liked the setup, but found the payoff disappointing. I liked Lily Rowan in Some Buried Caesar, but her obsession with Archie got on my last nerve in this one!Booby Trap- Loved Sergeant Bruce! Unfortunately it doesn't look like she's going to be a recurring character.
Archie joins the army and everybody temporarily loses their minds. There is also a story about a grenade that has some beautiful lines. Lots of people criticize "Not Quite Dead Enough" because it's so out-of-character. I think that the thought of Archie going overseas to die is enough to make any of the characters act OOC, so really, it's IN-CHARACTER to be out-of-character.
A Nero Wolfe mystery with Archie telling the story and Nero doing the thinking. Wolfe has decided to join the Army and is working out in Centrsl Park with Fritz. Archie invents a gambit to get Nero back in the game. The dialogue is old-timey, crisp and funny, full of Imbecile! and pfui! along the way.
