https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328586.Auschwitz
If you are only going to read one book about Auschwitz, let this be the one.
I could see everything she wrote about, like on a grainy black and white film (for how can there be color in Auschwitz?) in my head.I do, however, dearly wish it had been subject to fact-checking before publishing.
I am sure the book is the truth in the sense that the author told the events as she remembered them.
But her memory is not always accurate, and one entire chapter is devoted to describing an event which I know for a fact did not happen and could not have happened.
I think, as much as I "liked" reading this, that I'd have much more enjoyed a whole sequencial book by Nomberg-Przytyk.
I felt like I was being sold the author, her writing, and this book.
Anyone that read the book before the afterword (as it should be) would already be sold on all three things IMO.
This had be skeptical at first but after reading one of the "good parts" in the afterword I changed my mind.
In one story the author writes about the first time she hears the word "organize" in the "Aushwitz term".
What I really loved about reading this book was learning about the mindsets of prisoners and how they struggled with what was morally right and wrong for them even though they were living and breathing within a vessel of death.
Sara is a very earnest and detailed writer and her experience at Auschwitz spotlights individual people and their personal battles.I recommend this book to people interested in learning more about this particular death camp and WWII, and to anyone who never wants to forget this awful time in history.
A detailed account of the hell on earth known as Auschwitz, as told by a Holocaust survivor.Brutal and heartbreaking.
This may be the best book I have read on the subject. She brings the characters to life. As she tells each person's story- you do not know what their fate will be. Some disappear and we never know, some are killed and some miraculously make it through the war. This book shares so many people's different experiences- it is both heartbreaking and astounding. It is a must read if you want to know the ins and outs of how they survived (or didn't) camp life during this horrific period. Almost unbelievable how people were treated worse than rats!
This was a very powerful book which will stay with me for a long time.
Then, when all the Gypsies were sent to be gassed and burned, he sent the boy as well and pushed him into the oven with his own hands.Sara Nomberg-Przytyk worked in the hospital, and was one of the special workers so she got better treatment than most of the prisoners.
Sometimes they would aid in rounding up the prisoners to be gassed.On the other hand, Nomberg-Przytyk also talks about people who helped others.
Nomberg-Przytyk’s skill at story telling makes these stories feel like fiction, which is what makes the realities of the Holocaust that much more horrifying.
It honestly borders on being so inhumane it’s unbelievable and it becomes difficult to determine what parts of the stories are fact and which parts are fiction, an issue for a non-fiction history book.
Despite that this is still one of the most important books I had ever read on the subject and it’s one I can never forget.Memoirs are one of the most important primary sources that we have for understanding and remembering the Holocaust and the gravity of it’s impact on humanity.
Auschwitz: True Tales From a Grotesque Land by Sara Nomberg-Przytyk is a astonishingly powerful book, that takes you into the world of one of the most brutal concentration camps of all time.
Sara writes how the cruel and deceitful life in the camp was truly more inflicting then anyone could imagine, considering that the people were whipped and gathered into gas chambers.
Sara wrote how the other inmates had hope for awhile until every time that a person tried escaping they would be shot, tortured, or kept in a small chamber to die of starvation.
When you're a kid, you read books like The Devil's Arithmetic, and you're horrified at all those things that happened SOOOO long ago.
The people who were in the concentration camps weren't so different from us.
How do you go back to normal life?The older I get, the more I just cannot understand how these atrocities happened.
It's human nature to view people who are different from us with a critical eye.
I cannot imagine for a second ever despising a group of people so much that I could participate in their extermination.
I will be deeply affected by this book for a long time to come.
It is short but packs a wallop and helped me better understand a lot of things.
Getting to read from the perspective of a woman in a concentration camp was new to me, and I appreciated the insight that came with what seemed a greater sensitivity to human emotion and the phenomenological experiences of different individuals. The literary descriptions of the text made each account more tangible--I felt closer to those involved while reading this book than I did throughout Primo Levi's work on Auschwitz.
This book was VERY hard to read! It is good and educational but what these people went through was hell and no one should ever have to endure what they did.
Some people were able to go up in status for different reasons, sometimes, just because of who they knew.
There are people that you wonder what happened to them as we never find out.
How do people find the strength to go on in times like this?
I am sure there are things that are not 100% accurate in this book as these were memories recalled years later but I am glad that I read this.
It is a very haunting book on how people can treat others and the will to survive.
It's not easy to review books that are non-fiction.
That difficulty increases greatly when we are speaking of books dealing with the holocaust.
Fact or fiction alike, they are filled with instances that bring to mind the most horrific images and thoughts.
Who are we to deem which experiences deserve more attention when all of them are the result of people stepping forth and bringing light to the unspeakable horror?
I'll just say that of the many books I've read on Auschwitz, this collection of true tales is among the most memorable, and the most disturbing.
Filled with detailed descriptions of the author in the camps and her experiences. The writing was a bit difficult for me to follow but that could be due to the fact that this book has been translated.
This was one of those books I could not put down. another eye - witness account of Hell.
While some of the events are more folk tale that historical fact, that hardly matters against the backdrop of the Holocaust's most notorious death camp where, even if an event didn't happen exactly like Ms. Nomberg-Przytzk relates it, or at all, the moments being shown exist like ghosts - a palimpsest with reality.
They're believable because they easily could have happened that way, with no stretch of the imagination.
Th author's narrative technique thus presents these images, pulled from the grey dust of the death camp, like new Yiddish folk tales, with thought-provoking morals.

A book written as first-person, eyewitness accounts of life in Auschwitz is somehow beyond star-review land.
The book's existence justifies its worth, but it is also engaging, heartbreaking, and a success in storytelling.
You learn about prisoners and their sorrows and their hopes, both dashed and living hopes, the living hopes are their victories.
That people could celebrate a holiday, feel a rise in spirit in learning of another's escape attempt, be weak but share bread--these acts in the midst of horrors show human spirit at its finest.
Hard to revel in that truth, as the book tells of the worst in people too.
This account of the Holocaust will always stand out to me among all of the others due to the author's intense appreciation of beauty. The fact that she was able to perceive any beauty at all in a concentration camp is mindblowing to begin with, but that she remembers it with such detail shows that it wasn't an afterthought. Admist all the horrific events that she describes, the author was able to pick out moments of intense adoration for her fellow prisoners. These moments make the majority of ugliness that is described seem far worse.
This was a hard book to read!!! Gruesome and graphic deathly details of this death camp in Germany during WWII! It's so sick to hear of the mass murder of millions! A very good, interesting, well-written book written by a survivor! Age 18+!
The most descriptive character-driven holocaust book I've read. Recommended for the story, not so much for it's truthfulness. I understand there were some plot and character details taken for granted, but it is difficult to critique a book such as this. As always, quite a disturbing read.
As always, a memoir of the Holocaust is terrifying. Nomberg goes into much detail on some events, and it really pulls the reader in. Her book is interesting, because you feel almost as if there is a magical force following her around--she comes upon crazy luck that keeps her alive.
Truly amazing; I've read it twice. A book that never leaves you; becomes part of you. Anyone who wants to know about the Auschwitz experience, which is an entity in and of itself - it's own twisted, inexplicably dimented civilization, must read it.
Very strong and hard book to read. Auschwitz: True Tales from a Grotesque Land is written from the perspective of a nurse working in the hospital at Auschwitz. It provides context to many of the horrific things that occurred At Auschwitz. Very powerful book.
I have read a lot of WWII survival stories but this one stands out in my mind. Told with a very narrow scope on Camp life with emphasis on what it takes to survive and almost no back story from the narrator
Probably tied for my favorite book ever...
Really horrible to think of this happening, but it gave it a human part that was much needed.
Its a really good book that goes into detail when you dont really want it to. There are many sad parts that have to do with the Holocaust, some parts brought me to tears
