https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281520.In_the_Grip_of_Grace
Another great Lucado book.
"When everything was hopeless, Abraham believed anyway, deciding to live NOT on the basis of what he SAW he COULDN'T do, but on what God SAID he WOULD do!
Abraham decided to trust the PROMISE rather than focus on the problems!!!'Two truths about GRACE to take into battle: 1.
****IF your sin were too great for HIs grace, He never would've saved you in the 1st place!!2.
A GRACE inspired book :)The one thing that really stuck with me was: "you will never be called upon to give anymore grace than God has already given you!"
In the Grip of Grace is an absolutely beautiful declaration that nothing can pull us from the grip of God's grace. It's a timeless message. Max Lucado writes as an every day believer who struggles with believing that grace never stops covering us. He's encouraging, truthful, and understanding. I was deeply encouraged by this book.
I never know how to rate a Lucado. It was a great book. Lighter on the doctrine, and heavy on the fluff, but man! Great fluff. The kind of fluff that really attaches the doctrine to your heart. Nice.And I guess it can't be heavy all the time.
A wonderful picture of grace and our own inability to save ourselves. A wonderful tool for any new Christian and a great reminder for the mature Christian. The only thing keeping me from giving it 5 stars is the author's use of the Message as his translation in spots. I originally checked it out from the library, but bought my own copy so I can white out all those quotes and replace them with a more accurate translation.
This book was part of my decision to go back to church after 40 years of being a non-practitioner. I am so thankful that I discovered Max Lucado; my life is now in the hands of our Lord and I have real inner peace for the first time in many years.
Wow! I needed this... I listened to it - two and half times... Beautiful description of Grace... Thank you for the Atonement!!!
After a moment of stunned silence from the students (now thinking back, the whole topic was probably lost on them, haha!), Dr. Homles goes on to say how, as a Christian himself, he has a hard time believing Ted will go to heaven.
How can God love the unlovable?Since that discussion back in college, I've reflected on Dr. Holmes' point many times when people suggest burning people at the stake for "Big 10" sins such as adultery, slander, etc.
Entender el concepto de Gracia, lo que es, lo que significa y lo provoca en nosotros en muy sencillo de entender; sin embargo, cuando tratamos de asimilarla para aplicarla en nuestra vida cotidiana todo se vuelve muchísimo más complejo.En palabras sencillas, Gracia es el lenguaje de Dios, y el motor de otros rasgos de su personalidad y de sus actos; por lo tanto, deberíamos, sus hijos, movernos en Gracia.
I read this book many years a go as part of a Youth Bible Study that I was a co-leader in, and read it again some time later.
I got rid or lost my copy and found this copy at a book sale and decided to read the book again.
I am not a huge Lucado fan, but enjoy this book dealing with the Book of Romans.
I enjoyed re-reading this book again and learned new things years later while I was reading it.
My favorite Lucado book. One of the reasons is the parable of the river. Very few times in this life do you read something that forces you to look at yourself and really realize what kind of person you are. Max Lucado has that ability and he uses plain language and regular situations to do it.
Great book it's inspiring and well written. I loved how he used everyday experiences to show how God has us in his hands.I highly recommend it.
Such a beautiful explanation about grace... I didn't fully comprehend what grace truly was until in my 30's. Phenomenal book.
Max Lucado walks through the book of Romans. Of note: check out the Parable of the River he uses to open the book.
Great read! Loved the chapter on fellowship and the detailed study of Romans 1-8.
I am a believer and I read this book to strengthen my faith and deepen my understanding and even though grace is not a new concept to me, there were a few very distinct points in this book that positively and quite literally stole my breath.
Grace isn't a new or even very difficult idea, at least for me, but the way Mr. Lucado presents it is unique.
Just as I'm getting fully engrossed in his antidote, Mr. Lucado turns the story on its head and says simply: That's how God feels about you.
Can God truly love me?
I liked the parable of the river at the beginning and Lucado's references to it throughout the first of the book and in the conclusion.One thing I did like about the latter chapters was how Lucado tied each section to a bible verse or passage, particularly the one that talks about nothing being "able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus."I liked the fact that he had a study guide at the back of the book.
This would be a book I would be interested in studying with a bible study group.
Pretty good analogies and comparisons of stories that explained the love of God from a very human standpoint.
I was hoping for a quick read that would be encouraging and affirming.
I believe this book delivered that in many regards.
It was easy to read, didn't stray from the topic of grace and made the case for how God's forgiveness is a lot stronger than anything we could do wrong.Of note, the story of his car insurance company "letting him go" because of his family's horrible driving habits was probably one of the funniest, most relatable examples in the book.
I had a hard time getting into this book, and never really got to the point of wanting to pick it up. However, the subject matter is crucial and the book is well-written, so I think my disinterest had more to do with me than the writing or author. Lucado works excellently in metaphors! He had valuable insights and wrote with emotion - I'll be taking lessons away with me, but probably wouldn't pick the book up again.
I like to read a Lucado book one chapter a day (roughly; sometimes I read a couple if one is really short) and let the content sink in before moving on. I really appreciate this author's ability to give examples and explanations that make the Word relatable to present day real life. I enjoy his sense of humor and his humility as well. I never fail to learn something when I read one of his books.
This book changed my life. I can't say that about many books, but this is Lucado's best in my opinion and at the stage in life I first read it, it was exactly what I needed to hear. God's grace is there, it is abundant and it is incredible. If you are considering picking up any of Lucado's books, I'd recommend this one.
Well done! Well done! Max hit it out of the park with this one. As a fellow passenger on the boat I will trust the Captain to bring me safely through it all. Thank you, Max. Thank you God for your strong grip of amazing Grace.
You can't go wrong reading a Max Lucado book. There is plenty to learn, even if you've heard it before. Lucado has a way of explaining biblical concepts in a clear and often humorous way that makes reading his books worthwhile and entertaining.
Full of vivid metaphors that I have remembered for well over a year.
Through original parables, compelling anecdotes, and his command of Scripture, Lucado makes Paul’s letter to the Romans as relevant as ever.
I love books about grace. This was one of the best I've read in a while. Clean, articulate, great stories. So many reminders of why I serve the God I do. Grace.
Great read. Thanks for the recommendation, Jeff!
Back to basics.
Excellent read
I read this book at age of 18 or so. And it has been a go to book whenever I just need to bask in Gods grace. I love Max Lucados writing and His books have changed my life over the years.
Enjoyed!
