https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102031.Musashi
Las historias de samuráis me flipan, y esta es muy buena, lo único es que la tercera parte se ha hecho un tanto pesada, con tantos cambios de perspectiva, daba la impresión de que había capítulos irrelevantes, pero ha terminado muy bien, y quiero el segundo.
Maravilloso, entretenido, poético, diferente a todo lo que había leído hasta ahora. ¡Definitivamente, vale la pena! Aunque sea traducido al español desde la edición en inglés y no la japonesa original. ^^U
Excelente narrativa, muchos detalles de la historia de Japón, no puedo esperar por el 2do tomo. Solamente me pareció perderme entre tantos diferentes nombres citados al rededor de los personajes principales. Por todo lo demás es lo que esperaba y bastante más, un acercamiento a la cultura japonesa.
4/5Entretenido primer volumen de una de las clásicas novelas niponas de samurais. Algunas partes enganchan más que otras, pero por lo general mi visión del libro es muy positiva. Estoy ansioso por leer el resto de volúmenes.En cuanto a la edición de Quaterni, que es la que tengo, aunque el acabado exterior es muy bonito, el interior no lo es tanto. Contiene numerosos errores tipográficos y de maquetación, que dejan en el lector, o al menos a mí, un amargo sabor de boca. Me ha decepcionado un poco este aspecto teniendo en cuenta los 20 euros que cuesta cada ejemplar.
There is plenty of action, and adventure, however what surprised me the most was how witty and humorous the book is throughout.
Also, the book ends in a way to make you immediately open book 2.The translator Charles S.
Terry did a wonderful job of translating the book, as well as adding color and depth to every page.
That is a gift that not very many translators possess.
I would highly recommend this series as study material for any would-be translator, as well as anyone interested in a good read.If you are interested in reading the series, make sure you get a version translated by Charles S.
Terry.
Written for a Japanese audience who would be steeped in the ethos of Musashi. From a European eye there are a lot of strange things going on, but they give fascinating insight into Musashi's culture.After reading this it is easy to treat with contempt the authors who try to find in Musashi's book The Five Rings> clues to success in business.
Recomendado indirectamente por el gran Inoue y regalado directamente por la grandiosa Bucletina, hay pocas chances de que esto salga mal.
I picked up this seemingly out-of-print part one of five Pocket Books edition in order to work through the larger novel incrementally.
Way of the Samurai is an excellent introduction to what I anticipate to be one of the great works of historical fiction (and an introduction to the historical Musashi himself).
I enjoyed the window into Japanese history and culture, as well as reading what I suspect is the inspiration for much of modern martial arts fiction and popular culture (Usagi Yojimbo is a favorite comic of mine).
The character Musashi's transformation is inspiring and a humbling call to self-mastery and discipline.
Cuando alguien sabe contar una historia se nota, y hasta los más mínimos detalles son indispensables de leer. Continuaré lo antes posible la saga, ésta primera parte me entuasiasmó.
I really enjoyed this one and hope to read the other books in the series. It was a pretty easy read and took me only 2 days to finish. An interesting historical fiction novel on samurai-times Japan.
This novel is much different than any western literature I have read, with every thing from ethics, honor, love, and all other ideals being different from what us modern westerners would believe it to be.
Love is conducted in such a different way in this period of Japan; the melodramatic, gushing romance moments we read all the time in Western Novels if completely absent.
Any PDA is hugely dishonorable, and love seems almost emotionless compared to the way westerns express it nowadays.

El libro ofrece una historia muy bien narrada, pero con un ritmo bastante desigual pero que gustará a todo el mundo. Es una novela de capa y espada a la japonesa perfectamente disfrutable, con buenos personajes, entretenidas historias y antagonistas con gracia, que aprovecha para describirte magníficamente una sociedad exótica y hermética. Ideal para cualquiera que quiera pasar un buen rato con aventuras y diversión.El resto de la crítica aquí ;)http://meitnerio.blogspot.com.es/2012...
I remember I've read Musashi in a time that I was in-love with "the way of the warrior" of the Japan's culture.
If you are not Japanese, I think you have to understand some things before you start to read this book: 1) Honor is all that matter for a Japanese Samurai.
2) Death is nothing more that a passage, a samurai embrace death without fear it.
3) Harmony & Equilibrium (Wa) it's what a samurai practice in personal life.I know this principles sound bizarre for some people, but that was the reality of the XVI century in Japan.I also recommend Taiko - written by Eiji Yoshikawa
El libro se deja leer bastante bien. Quizás peca de un ritmo bastante desigual, una literatura de sube y baja... que casi consiguió que lo dejara para después como a mitad del libro.He de decir, no obstante, que el libro muestra un buen escenario de una sociedad casi desconocida para nosotros. Un mundo medieval en pleno siglo XVII, un código de honor en decadencia y olvido, un salvaje joven que de forma casual se encauza en el camino...Solo agregar que acabo de cerrar el libro, y abrir el siguiente...
A slight lie... I only finished half of it, but that felt like a complete arc in itself, after which I must take a break before investing in the new incarnations of the characters and setting.Bizarrely, I was constantly and strikingly reminded, while reading, of James Stephens's The Crock of Gold. I wouldn't have associated Irish and Japanese legend before, but it was astoundingly strong.
Udah baca ini buku dari jaman SMP..gile bener..lupa segalanya kalo udah baca ini buku.. sayangnya yg pinjem ga pada tau diri..bukunya raib entah kemana ( plus jadul kan, yg namanya anak abg mana ngerti pula ama yg namanya sayang ama buku hh.. nyesel banget dah..) upps.. singkatnya ini buku kudu di baca buat para pecinta buku.. alur penulisannya enak di ikuti ( bayangin ajah aku bacanya pas jaman SMP!!!) udah gitu seru banget..
Husband just finished this and we both give it a solid 4 stars. The book immerses you in a culture that is vastly different from our own. Where your familial and personal honor and your integrity are all important. This is epic historical fiction that anyone wanting to know more of Japanese history or culture should read. Bring on book two! Longer review forthcoming.
Este libro es una joya para los amantes del Japón feudal. La leyenda del samurai es un libro que no deja que el lector se aburra; con historias entrelazadas y la evolución de los personajes este libro es imperdible.
You definitely have to have a different mindset to enjoy this book. Very little happened as I would have expected, but it all seemed appropriate. Curiosity kept me interested and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I can't wait to read the next book, The Art of War.
Edición en castellano de la biografía novelizada de Musashi Miyamoto, novela que sirvió de base a Takehiko Inoue para su manga Vagabond
Awesome book. Depicts the cultural aspects of the japanese way and it's roots in Bushi-dô. This is a story of it's most prominent icon: Miyamoto Musashi
I read only the first book, and I can hardly wait reading the others.
Es un libro complicado, entre gris y negro, se torna interesante y de repente monotono.El tema de tantos nombres y referencias me perdio....
La historia que inspiró Vagabond, del exquisito Takehiko Inou, finalmente en castellano.
Me encanto hasta is Mitad ! Después me perdió
még négy kötet! ^_^
Buen libro. Hay muchas partes que me han hecho reflexionar.Breve y bueno. Bueno por breve.
I have always had a fascination with Musashi Miyamoto. It's an interesting take on his life, and I can't wait to read more of them.
this book got me thru my divorce
