https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32640.The_Inhuman_Condition
Read it if you have not!), most were whimsical & creative enough to keep me interested.The sexual overtones here are amplified.
Hands, symbols of many things sexual and even paternal, have lives of their own and try to overthrow their appendages (i.e. their human hosts).
The body politic is something every human can relate to, and when the hands chop off their partners and they both scatter away like roaches...
It's no wonder that the detective who seeks to capture the sexual deviant is, himself, a lush for a good cup of hot chocolate...
كليف باركر...أين سمعت هذا الاسم من قبل؟أين...أين؟ إذا كنت من عشاق الرعب، فلا بد أنك مررت في ذلك الدهليز على فلم Hellraiser، أو العائد من الجحيم، قصة الفلم من إبداع باركر...إن لم تكن شاهدته فعليك بذلك...بدلا من التأرجح بين أحمد خالد توفيق وستيفن كنج، قررت الخوض أكثر في أدب الرعب والحصول على كل ماهو غريب ومخيف.
هذا الكتاب-وهو الرابع في المجموعة- تم اختياره من بين البقية وفقا لتقييم الجودريدز.خمسة قصص تتفاوت في الجودة ومستوى الرعب.
في الحقيقة القصة لا تقول ذلك على وجه صريح، وإنما هي قصة أشباح درامية/عاطفية جيدة المستوى.
Surprising no one, I enjoyed this volume as much as the ones before it. Honestly, it's like Clive Barker outdoes HIMSELF with every volume.It's hard to choose a favourite story, but I'll go with "Revelations". My least favourite story is easy to choose, though, it was "Age of Desire". I thought it would never end.
I'm not quite sure how to rate thisThere are 5 short stories.
The first 2 are amazing.The third is goodThe last 2, I didn't care forThe first, The Inhuman Condition, is terrifying as is the title story about a knot and the demons that hell unleashes when the knot is undone.
Bizare and dark, never really takes off as a full story.
The subject of the experiment seems to become rather overcome with sexual desires - some very descriptive passages.
If one is looking for horrific tales that truly get under the skin, it is hard to beat Clive Barker's classic '80s series Books of Blood.
Volume 4 (i.e. The Inhuman Condition) contains five stories, all of which show a maturation and progression from the first three volumes (which are magnificent reads in and of themselves!).
The stories: 'The Body Politic' - This was my favorite Barker short story until I read 'Revelations'.
Despite dealing with some heady and depressing topics here, Clive Barker pulls off one of the funniest tales I've yet to read from him.
Четвърта порция кървавокнижна: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/k...
Последният вик на лятото бе крясък - “Кървави книги 4″ на Клайв Баркър протегна отрязани ръце към феновете и те, не се съмнявам, ще ги сграбчат непоколебимо, каквото и да им струва.
Сега вече сякаш посвикнах със стила на Баркър, пък и попрочетох и други в жанра (“Кутия за птици” на Джош Малерман, “Отвъд стената на съня” на Х.
Пол Уилсън), та не се стряскам вече толкова и дори мога да ги чета на тъмно :) Последната част я четох точно така и бе приятно, даже без кошмари:Colibri Books​http://knigolandia.info/book-review/k...
Поредният уникален сборник на Баркър! Този човек няма никаква спирка.
Another solid group of stories. My favorite from this volume was probably Revelations.
More fantastically weird horror from Barker. I didn't like this collection quite as much as the previous three (which shouldn't be taken as bad, since those are some of the best short horror ever), but then the last story hit me, and holy fuck it was mind-boggling. The premise is essentially "what if aphrodisiacs actually worked" instead of just being fucking snake oil, and the results, from Barker's wild imagination, are horrifying and grotesque. Thanks for the mindfuck, Mr. Barker. You are a demented genius.
"Не се здрависвайте с Чарли ако ви подаде ръка. Не бъркайте в джоба на скитника. Не търсете откровения в Тексас през сезона на смерчовете. Не прекрачвайте прага на Григорий, освен ако не сте Дявола. И най-важното - стойте далеч от Горящия човек, особено ако по радиото звучат любовни песни."Поредният брутален/брилянтен Баркър, няма празно тук. Четири новели и един кратък разказ, които доказват, че Кървавите Книги са еталон в хоръра. Задълже. Чакам следващите.
Поредният шедьовър на Баркър. Нямам думи.
I especially enjoyed the story about the hands that grew minds of their own and turned against their human masters.
The Dark Weaveworld of Clive Barker, Part 1 of 3: “The Inhuman Condition”In the mid-to-late eighties, after the first three successful installments of the Books of Blood, the next three in the series were released under the same title.
The Books of Blood VI was published differently: joined with the novel Cabal, the four stories are added on after the novel, providing a very nice anthology for fans of Clive Barker.“The Inhuman Condition”: Two thieves decide to vent their anger on a hapless hobo, while the other sees little use in this and decides to wait at the side while the other two reduce the vagabond to a bloody pulp.
The six volumes were all released in their individual forms back in 1985, this forth volume contains the following short stories: The Body Politic - 47 pages "What if parts of your body, such as your hands for instance, suddenly decided that they wanted to sever their connections with you and be free?
Bringing with it a brief glimpse at Barker's principal ideas for 'The Hellbound Heart', this short story packs in heart-pounding suspense and twisted horror to form a gripping and terrifying storyline.
The story was later adapted by Steve Niles in 1992 into the Eclipse Books graphic novel 'Revelations' where it was illustrated by Lionel Talaro.
Every time I pick up a comp of his short fiction, I am starkly reminded of how much stronger his work is in this format than in lengthier novels.
"The Inhuman Condition" and "The Body Politic" are so rich with originality that even if the quality of writing were weaker (and it is quite strong here), they'd still be great tales of the macabre.
The final tale, "Age of desire", is passable, but so heavily laden with the stark and graphic sexuality that defined a lot of Barker's work that it feels a bit unwieldy and heavy-handed.
Нова примамлива порция БаркърЦялото ревю тук: http://knijenpetar.blogspot.bg/2015/0...
Ясно е, че „Кървави книги“ е една от най-добрите колекции от хорър разкази през последните десетилетия и никак не е чудно, че всеки маниак на жанра потрива ръце при излизането на поредната порция.
А Баркър, макар и с малко на брой разкази, може съвсем непредубедено да превземе властта в съзнанието на всеки почитател.
Тук те са само пет – четири по-дълги и един къс – но съвсем достойни за внимание.
В четирите дълги личат добре разказани истории, типичното за Баркър осквервяване на човешкото и почти влудяващото натуралистично поднасяне на мрачните сцени.
(Продължава в блога: http://knijenpetar.blogspot.bg/2015/0...)
When the paperback of Clive Barker’s “The Inhuman Condition” was released in 1987 (with its exquisite cover), I was 13.
As much as I liked the idea of Clive Barker then, and wanted to like “The Inhuman Condition,” I just couldn’t get into it.
It is unsettling on a deep level, and he clearly has no interest in delineating between heroes and villains (at least judging from these stories, Barker would never be accused of being overly fond or sentimental toward his characters).

With a several movies being released over the past few years based on the stories of Clive Barker I was very interested in reading some of his work.
With The Book of Blood being released on DVD I decided to look into that and found out that it was a short story (first one in the book) like the rest.
I eventualy finished reading this book last night and I already want more.I must say i enjoyed every story in this book and was surprised by each ending.
The Inhuman Condition was the American release of Barker's later fourth volume of his books of blood.
As with the first three volumes, the author continues his exploration into the extreme reaches of horror.
Back in the late 80s, I heard Clive Barker speak and he stated he was trying to remove good and evil as a condition to terror.
Terror can exist as an independent entity not related to a struggle between good and evil.
But I think he was certainly exploring that particular theme in these excellent tales of terror.
Best stories?
The title story and "The Body Politic".
Un altro "meh" per Barker.In questo libro ci sono due racconti che secondo me sono davvero molto belli: "Libertà agli oppressi", che ha parecchi riscontri filosofici interessanti, e "Apocalisse" perché mi piacciono un sacco le storie di quel genere.Anche il terzo racconto sarebbe molto carino, il problema è che è davvero troppo contro, non è sviluppato per niente e non posso sbilanciarmi.L'ultimo racconto è assolutamente banale, mentre il secondo mi ha ricordato un po' troppo le atmosfere di arancia meccanica per poterlo apprezzare al meglio.
The Books Of Blood - Volume 4 Clive Barker is top notch in this continuation of the series Books of Blood. The master of intellectual horror sends several short stories towards the reader as fantastical beasts and insanely sexual deviants rule Barker’s imaginary landscape. A truly great read which creates a high anticipation for the next sought after set of illusionary tales of terror.
More of a mixed bag than the previous volumes of the Books of Blood. A handful of strong stories -- "the body politic", "the inhuman condition" -- only go so far to make up for their lesser counterparts. Several stories are dragged out to near novella length despite the lack of anything interesting or horrifying, while one of the more intriguing premises (Down, Satan!) is left little more than a sketch, a scant 7 or 8 pages. Uneven, but still somewhat enteraining.
The first two stories are fantastic, but I'm rating this book a little lower because I wasn't as much of a fan of some of the others in this anthology. I would HIGHLY recommend reading the first two stories, though!
This is a brilliant collection of imaginative horror stories that I would recommend to all horror fans... along with all the other volumes!
The latter may be the most impactful of the lot insofar as it hits the audience with an intriguing idea but doesn't play it out to the point of tedium.There's always plenty of murder and mayhem in these stories, but one can't help but feel Barker has done cleverer portrayals of it with more uniquely twisted visions than he does here.
Volume 4 of the Books of Blood is another fine collection of horror stories from Clive Barker in his prime.
Just when you think Barker is playing the premise for laughs, he conjures a chilling visions, such as a flood of hands crawling down a darkened street or a hall of a prison turned into a bloodbath by body parts in revolt.Revelations is a more low key story, of religion used as a weapon and horny ghosts among a roadside motel.
Sadly, "The Age of Desire" ends on a real bum note, taking the entire story collection out on a weak moment.Still, three out of five is pretty good and even the weaker stories are decent.
Barker has indeed a romantic, and visceral, and uber-gross view of things, foremost a fantastic infatuation with the human body, and with the traffic of the spectral world with mortal sexuality...
Lastly, I kinda really dug the monster-flick tale "Rawhide Rex" which should be turned into a script, as the climax is better than mostly any I could think of for a monster story.
In all seriousness, this is a great story that relies on interesting characters to keep you enthralled to the very end.DOWN, SATAN 3*A very short little tale that is more of an urban legend/campfire story type of thing than anything else.
Granted it is a good one, but it can't really be compared to the others.THE AGE OF DESIRE 3.5*A great little story to end the collection, while it can get confusing and muddled with needless charcters at times, the story is still great.So overall, this great installment gets 4*
Loved it
