https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4135.I_Like_You
As a guide to throwing parties, this is a pretty good book.
I had my Lucky '07 New Years party right after reading this book, and some of the points she made were helpful in planning and execution (I either forgot to read or Amy forgot to write the part about not drinking too much, but I suppose that's really neither here nor there).As a person who likes throwing theme parties, I can't imagine actually using most of the ideas in here, since I'd rather come up with them on my own.
Sarcastic, quirky and kooky, I Like You - this jokey book on being the hostess with the mostess - is perhaps the only kind of hospitality book I could take serious.
Half of this is domestic, home-maker, party-planner, cookbook material.
In fact it surprised me how much of I Like You is straight up serious.
It's as scatterbrained as its author's onscreen performances.
Hit and miss.Amy Sedaris is generally a funny lady, but her brother David got the writer gene.
She's more of a performer.
If this was a VIDEObook then you'd be in Amy Sedaris' wheelhouse!
I cleared the queue in a couple of weeks and lugged the book home (lugging large things on the train is becoming a recurring theme).Her book is well-written and funny...
During the book tour, Sedaris was at her most animated when railing against those who want to call it humor -- she takes the recipe and entertaining bit very seriously, in an ironic sort of way, and she wants people to take her book seriously.
Amy Sedaris really take us all on a hilarious journey of wacky evenings, irresponsible moments, such as a blind date at her home so that she can control the situation(what a delight she would have been for serial killers and stalkers); selling stuff to her guests-insisting on their support; and funny incidents, like when her sister slipped in her shower and encountered a fish hook in her lip.
Don't invite people who work in the same industry, because it won't be party then, it will be convention.
Genius. Amy Sedaris is one of the most beautiful people on the planet. Get this book, then go make your Fuck It Bucket. It's filled with crafts and recipes for depressed stoners. The book, not the Fuck It Bucket. Different story. Regardless, read this book. Good times.NC
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Boy oh boy this one really left me in a quandary. I read this book a while ago . . . and it gave me a sad so I didn’t write a review. My love for Amy Sedaris goes back a long time. Before she was all cute on “Elf” or doing guests spots on my new fave T.V. show “Broad City”  I loved her as Jeri Blank. Totally inappropriate, menopausal, high school student, Jeri Blank. I wasn’t prepared to not love this book. I had to take some time and
and it gave me a sad so I didn’t write a review.
My love for Amy Sedaris goes back a long time.
I loved her as Jeri Blank.
I wasn’t prepared to not love this book.
I mean, Amy Sedaris is 
. Even without a series of her own or roles in movies, she’s always being invited on the late night talk shows.
A REALLY bad cookbook (and trust me when I say I don’t need any more help being a bad cook *ba-dum ching*).
So it is with heavy heart I write this review.
Amy – please know I still love you (and your brother David).
“Commit or decline. If you cannot come to the party, do not cancel at the last minute or give a message to a child to inform the host. And don’t bother explaining why you can’t attend because anything after “because” is bullshit.” 😆 This was pretty fun on #audio. It’s a good mix of dark humor, which I love, and actual good tips. Plus, recipes. And I love that cover.
I felt that most of her tips were obvious, useless, not as funny as she was trying to be, and overall just dumb.
The pictures, although I'm sure there was some creative and artistic brilliance involved in making it just so, were offensively UGLY, making even the recipes I had thought I might like to try look disgusting.
If you're interested in amazing recipes like, "The best rootbeer float: Add 2 scoops of vanilla ice cream in your favorite glass and fill with root beer.
Quite simply, I want to be Amy Sedaris when I grow up.
I think it just might be possible too, considering that I also enjoy baking cupcakes, I have a wacky family, and on occasion I have been known to be arrestingly adorable (and yet bizarre at the same time).
Maybe the Sedaris family can just adopt me.
I feel like they need to balance out Rooster and the crazy sister with no furniture.
Hmmm...In any case, I haven't tested out the recipes in here or attacked any of the craft projects, but I can't open this book without laughing my arse off.
The photos are priceless, just like the author.
Also for the record, I was a good way into it when I realized that this book is NOT really geared towards heterosexual men such as myself (it was her giving advice on "vaginal cleansing" aka douching before I made this realization!
Yeah, I know I'm slow.) I'm very familiar with (books by) Amy's brother, David Sedaris, and am a big fan.
To be sure, there are a few funny moments and quirky/interesting advice scattered here and there, but I found much of information useless.
A few that are vegetarian are full of butter and cheese, and not very interesting.
Amy Sedaris's mind is always at work.
Here are some of her party and hosting tips (in no particular order):*Don't bring your dog [actually, this is really good advice...]*Invite the barnacle in your life to parties only if there are a large number of people so he or she will be lost in the crowd.*If you are the guest: Don't arrive saying you have chiggers, scabies, ringworm or lice.
Keep your parasites to yourself.*Change your medicine chest from herbal remedies to something that works - fast-acting, no-nonsense pharmaceuticals (i.e. amphetamines for ginseng).Amy really has a thing for pantyhose, but I stopped wearing those horrid things over a decade ago, so that advice was lost on me.
I started listening to this audio book this morning and finished it by the end of the day.
Its short, funny and entertaining.
Amy is the very funny sister of David Sedaris and like him they are crazy unique individuals.
Their funny quirky stories make you laugh but there is always something relatable about them.
Amy explains in I Like You how to throw the perfect party.
For example, if you are entertaining elderly people you may want to give them threaded needles as parting gifts?
I liked this book.
It had a lot of giggling and one or two laugh-at-loud moments.
I no longer feel like a failure in entertaining my friends and acquaintances.
I also acknowledge the universal truth that alcohol is a wonderful tool to feel better about yourself and make others feel better about themselves.
Amy Sedaris clearly likes to party.
And has more friends (or is it acquaintances?) who will come to her parties.
I cracked up at some the themes she comes up with and wondered, "If I use the tips in this book, will I become more popular?
Or will it reveal the sad truth...that we are all just a quirky mess trying desperately to feel liked?"If you like her brother's writing style; get ready for some gut-bustin' good times!
It's pretty clear that the name "Sedaris" is synonymous with "hilarious." Amy Sedaris is just as funny as her brother David Sedaris, which is excellent for those of us looking for reliable authors we can remember at bookstores. I love Amy's pairing of advice and humor and find her take on hospitality refreshing and honest. I plan to recommend this book to my friends and I think the audiobook will make an excellent gift come next Christmas.
This is more of a coffee table book than a real instruction book. Open it anywhere and start laughing! Some of her suggestions are practical, some are hilarious, all are interesting. I doubt if I do any of the pantyhose crafts, but I might pick up a few ideas to really use. I bought this book when she was a guest speaker at a seminar series at the university. Enjoyed the evening and I recommend you do that too if you have the opportunity.
I want Amy Sedaris to move in next door to me. Universe - do you hear me?!I want Amy Sedaris to move in next door to me!
I've been meaning to read this forever, mainly because of the photo on the cover.
It makes me feel like Amy Sedaris really does like me.And within that fabulous cover?
Think one of those cheesy how-to craft books in the yarn aisles of an arts and crafts store.
Then a snarky, cheeky Betty Crocker throws in a bunch of her annotated recipes and '60s photos.I didn't actually read the whole book because I hate crafts and all the recipes look gross.
But what I did read reminded me that Amy Sedaris is hilarious and now I follow her on Instagram.
I like you Amy Sedaris. Upon reading this book I quickly implemented the "Fuck It Bucket." A bucket of candy that when life gets you down just say "fuck it" and eat a piece of candy. Life's better with a Fuck It Bucket.
Very entertaining as an audiobook. The sound affects are funny. Hard to get the recipes but that's okay. I tried not to snort out loud as I listened to this at work. I don't think it would have been as funny as a printed book.
I like that you like me and I like you too.
I love listening to David Sedaris' audiobooks and thought I would give his sister Amy's book a try.
I found 'I Like You: Hospitality Under the Influence' quirky, funny, a mixed bag of nuts, with some practical advise on hospitality.
Amy, our eccentric hostess, even shares some of her favorite recipes such as: Zucchini Fritters, Southern Green Beans, Li'l Smokey Cheeseball and Smack Snacks for Rabbits (can't leave them out of the party).
I really liked listening to Amy Sedaris read her book.
She is much more upbeat than her brother and I thought almost as funny.
But if you're a mature teenager who enjoys off-beat humor mixed in with recipes, entertaining tips, and a hodgepodge of other "homey" ideas, then this is the book for you.
Unfortunately, I had originally thought that when I invited people into my house I was saying, "Hello, sorry my house looks like bohemian children with outrageous hobbies live here." But, whatever.
Amy Sedaris, whom you might recognize from roles in School of Rock, Bewitched, Elf, and Strangers With Candy, has given us a slew of ideas, recipes, and helpful hints for entertaining those people we invite into our home.
Interesting format: a cookbook with farcical scenarios and hospitality suggestions.
For instance, what menu should you plan if you are having a group of lumberjacks over for a meal?
If you, like Amy, have a rich uncle unexpectedly drop in needing a place to stay for the weekend, remove your earrings and insert a broom straw in the ear hole.
When your Rich Uncle asks why you have broom straws in your ear, tell him that you are saving up for a pair of earrings.
After he goes to bed, make sure to heat up rocks to place on the pillow to keep his head warm while he sleeps.
I expected this to be a joke cookbook, but there are real recipes in here, and most of them look pretty good.
Sedaris's book also includes diferent party themes, complete with decorating and entertaiment ideas (one of the games for the children's party was called "Gypsy - blindfold the kids, drive them to the other side of town and leave them somewhere they've never been before.
The goal is to find their way back) and general tips - she suggests filling your medicine cabinet with marbles because "nothing announces a nosy party guest quite like the sound of marbles striking a porcelain sink" Apparently Amy Sedaris appeared on the Martha Stewart show to promote this book.
I fell in love with Amy Sedaris the first I saw Strangers with Candy, when I saw she had a cookbook I had to have it! This book is filled with silly stories and funny pictures. It reminds me of my childhood, very nostalgic. Oh and there are some good recipes too! I've made a couple but somehow this book got buried on my regular bookshelf. Now that I moved it to the bookshelves in the kitchen I'll use it more often. :)
Someone gave me this audiobook right before I drove the 13 hours from my parents' house to home. Otherwise, I might've never known about it. I wasn't sure what to expect when I started listening, but it certainly wasn't Amy Sedaris's quick wit and humor combined with some pretty good hosting tips. She was hilarious! I definitely recommend this book to anyone who wants a light read (or has a long drive ahead of them).
Amy Sedaris takes a half serious half humorous look at the lost art of hospitality. While portions of the book were laugh out loud hilarious others were just bizarre and absurd. The one thing I can take a way from this book is add more alcohol to everything.
I absolutely loved this book, Amy Sedaris is awesome to say the least! Part legitimate hospitality and party book, part parody of said books from the 1950s through the 1970s. A fun read and I'm pretty sure that after this, Amy Sedaris is my spirit animal!
Gimmicky but amusing.I've tried the artichoke casserole recipe and it's not bad.
Funny hostessing guide with some actual helpful tips among the jokes.
