https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/573896.Renoir_My_Father
Written by his son, Renoir, My Father is a loving memoir of the method and the man intimately seen inside the family.
But he also came across to me as a man of contradictions, driven yet a believer in fate, deep thinking yet impulsive, passionate yet reserved.
He really loved women; he's just coming from an 18th century perspective.
The think they know it, and are satisfied with mere surface appearances.
"Then he motioned for someone to take his brush and said, 'I think I am beginning to understand something about it.' That is the phrase Grand' Louise repeated to me.
This is an amazing and intimate look at the life of Renoir through his son's eyes.
Renoir is an interesting subject for a biography and this biography tells his story well.Which brings the second extraordinary aspect of this book: Jean Renoir.
We get the biographic detail of Renoir that we look for in a biography -- more intimate than one written by a scholar -- but we get, by way of these digressions, more than mere information on Renoir.
Jean paints for us a delightful and detailed tableau of Renoir and his times through these little stories from a bit off of the beaten path.
He also had the chance to see Paris as it was before the Commune and the war of 1870.
Yet early on Sunday mornings with a light rain playing on the umbrellas of the artist's stands in the Place du Tertre, you can wander freely among the memories of the rue Lepic and elsewhere, and catch glimpses of Renoir (and others) as you pass through the old streets.
Reading this book first will help.Jean Renoir is a very famous artist in his own right, having made numerous films and become one of the most acclaimed directors in French cinema history.
If you are a painter, or a son, or interested in the previous centuries' history - this book for sure will enrich you.If you are a woman, a feminist, an open minded person, some of Renoir Senior's sexist ideas will annoy you greatly, yet the otherwise humanist ideas will enlighten you.
As for the son, do you know his films?
Renoir, My Father - Jean Renoir 4 stars“Among seekers of truth, painters perhaps come closest to discovering the secret of the balance of forces of the universe, and hence of man's fulfillment.” I started this memoir/biography in November of last year.
The filmmaker, Jean Renoir, wrote to his publisher about his intentions for this book in 1953, “I would like to attempt to give form to my recollections of the conversations I had with my father mostly at the end of his life.” I’m not certain how much this book can be said to give ‘form’.
I always liked Renoir's simple idea-less paintings a lot and learned they were a reaction against industrialization, when life was more simple.
Renoir was a relatively simple man who said, "you have to be a little mad to paint," and he was just normal enough to pull it off without slashing off his ear, or jumping off a boat.
I wanted a different life and this very engaging, well written, beautifully observant, vision of art, written by Pierre Augustus Renoir's son, is one of the world's wonders.
Still, there were times the painterly vision of being a man observing his times and creating an expression were an eternal truth.
I loved this book. I'm a huge fan of Jean Renoir (the film maker), never that crazy about the work of his father the painter, but this book is wonderful. What I love about J Renoir is his menschlichheit (pardon my french) -- his art is great because he's a great soul. In this book, you see where he got it, as well as getting a real feel for regular 19th c life in Paris and throughout France, a broad cultural history of the period.
كتاب فني سيَري جميل يحكي قصة أوجست رينوار في منتصف القرن التاسع عشر، تتعرف من خلاله على فرنسا ذاك الزمان على العادات والظروف والتغيرات، وبالأخص على الحركة الفنية التي جمعت هؤلاء الفتية أوجست رينوار ومونيه وادغار ديغا وغيرهم من شباب ذلك العصر والمتحمسين لخلق فن جديد لا يعتمد على اي من قواعد الرسم التقليدية وبالرغم من كل الصعاب والرفض الإعلامي وبالتالي الجماهيري الا أنهم ناضلوا حتى وُجد بفضلهم ما عرف بالحركة الانطباعية في الفن والتي كانت الباب لمدارس الفن الحديث .
ذكرايات جمعت الكاتب بوالده أوغست رينوار رائد المدرسة الانطباعية ؛ ولقد اشتهر الفنان برسم أفراد أسرته والمناظر الطبيعية؛والكتاب عبارة استعادة لكثير من تعليقات الأب وافكاره حول الشخصيات والنساء عامة؛وربما من هذا الرسام اشتهرت عبارة أن الأسود ملك الألوان:)الكتاب عامة هو وصف متعدد لكل جوانب حياة أوغست رينوار لو كنت مهتما
Jean is quite a talent himself, and his narrative skills as a filmmaker are evident in this loving memoir of a son of a genius.
The book opens with the wounded Jean thanking a German sniper for wounding him so that he might go home to recover in the company of his aging father, at his father's last home, where he will gather the bulk of the material for this memoir.
From the birth of Pierre-Auguste, of course, through the rest of his remarkable life, always entertaining, touching, intelligent, and surprisingly funny.
What lives enter the life of Renoir!
Renoir was an ideal man – or at least in his adult son's recollections, which is rarer than one might think.
I've just picked this up again after finishing Memoirs of Hadrian.
The discussions of the "new" artistic theories of the day, and Renoir's friendships with Pissaro, Sisley, Monet, etc.
I am also enjoying the many digressions about life in Paris at the time; these scenes and vignettes are vividly described by Jean Renoir.
It is definitely much more of a son's memoir of his father than a standard biography.
I'm not sure why his son feels so impelled to report, verbatim, what seems like every last one of Renoir's patronizing opinions about women - it is getting a little tedious, and I find I am skimming those sections.
I was reading this in the summer and left it in CT.
It was a really good read1 I finally got this book back from CT, and I still love it!.
This book made me appreciate and love Renior even more.
He had wonderful witty and unique views on life just as Renoir.It was written by his son and through the whole tone of the book you could feel the compasion and respect he had for his father and his work.I thought he wrote too much about all the many places they lived even if they did not live there long or anything of importance happen.
It was a little drawn out in that area, but other than that I loved this book.
Who better to tell the story of a great artist than his son!
The book is filled with amusing anecdotes, historic photos, and stories about the "genius" as Jean Renoir calls his father.
In his father's lifetime much of France was in flux with revolutions, changing governments and a great World War. Through it all, Renoir saw with amused eyes the bourgeoise, who with the nobility gone, thought of themselves as such.
At times, when the author jumps back and forth in time and reminisces, it's not a smooth read.
Yet this is a book I'd recommend to anyone who enjoys the Impressionists.
I love Renoir's work and was interested in his biography since it was written so intimately by his son. I discovered that he was simple and down to earth in his lifestyle, I could really relate to his philosophy of life, especially his view of fate,family and economy. I also recently visited Paris and the descriptions of the city and the changes that occurred at the turn of the 20th century were so visually written that it solidified my memories of different areas, like Montmartre. Very artsy, very French, very readable.
الكتاب في غالبه ممل حيث كان أسلوب الابن جان غير موفق. وتنقل بين مراحل حياة والده الرسام الشهير رينوار أحد الانطباعيين المؤسسين للحركة وكان رفيق مونيه وشريكه في السكن لفترة قصيرة وكان صديقا لسيزان وديغا، وتوقعت كلاما كثيرا عن حياة هؤلاء الرسامين ومعارضهم الأولى والتحديات التي واجهوها، لكن لم يتكلم عنهم إلا لماما وكان تركيزه على أحداث حياة والده أكثر مما هو على الرسم وعلى الحركة التي يمثلها.الكتاب بالمجمل ممل والتسلسل غير سلس وتقسيم الفصول لم يعجبني وطويل على عكس ما هو متوقع من سينمائي.
What would you like to know about the most loved painter in the world? Learn it from the person who loved and knew him best, his son. I learned a new respect and fascination for this Pierre Renoir and can tell you there can absolutely never be another man like him. You will be blessed by his outlook on life and by his loyalty and loves.
Um livro fantástico. Uma história contada por alguém que opta por se afastar da tradicional cronologia e que contextualiza a vida do artista na sociedade, na cidade, no grupos de amigos, numa corrente artistica e numa época. Uma visão pessoal e sensível sobre a vida e obra daquele génio da pintura.
I have always loved his paintings and it was fascinating to read of his life and work.
I learned much -that the Impressionist name was a bit of a fluke, that they were considered an artistic group that broke away from traditional painting, and, at the start, they often worked together.
They were the first artists that painted purely for the sake of their art, and not specific commissions.
(Paul Durand-Ruel) who recognized the amazing talents of Renoir and the other Impressionists.
The book also relates stories of Renoir's family life, and recounted the times in which he lived.
"Excellent" - Biography - "Quality"!!.. "Awesome"!!..
This should probably be reserved only for true die-hard Renoir fanatics. It’s not very enticingly written. I found it kind of dull and ended up skimming most of it.
Only the quest and the fact that I was reading it in small doses on the subway when I had nothing else to do but avoid eye contact with crazy people got me through.Apparently, the New York Times said, apropos of this book, that Renoir was "unaffected, modest and genial."I would say, apropos of this book, that he seemed like kind of an ass.Often, Renoir's son relays pronouncements made by his father about life.
But isn't it still kind of strange to call someone "unaffected" and "modest" when they are given to making pronouncements.
One of my favorite lines was that "For Renoir, there was no petty or great events, no minute or major artists, no small or great discoveries." If all you did was read the first two chapters, you already got a lot out of the book.
After the first couple of chapters, the book discusses his life struggling to make it as an artist, how he meets his wife, his life with his wife, all of the places he has lived, and all of the different models who sat for him.
The end of the book discusses his arthritis, which is important to understand his art.
Uno straordinario affresco, se in un primo momento "...abbandonandomi alle mie fantasticherie senza 
On apprende le philosophie de Renoir qui dit; "Cette idee de Rousseau que les hommes naissent en sachant tout est une idee de litterateur.
Nous naissons en ne sachant rien." (p.
Jean Renoir admettait en ecrivant ce livre que, "Je n'essaierai pas de combler les lacunes de mon recit en me referrant a d'autres ouvrages." (p110)On apprends les details de la vie quotidien du peintre, sa cuisine prefere, ses idees de son profession et aux dernieres annees sa lutte contre des rhumatismes déformants l'obligeront progressivement à renoncer à marcher."Renoir etait trop modeste pour admettre qu'il etait en avance sur son epoque." (p.429)
This is a biography of one of my favorite artists, written by his son Jean with love and admiration.
The book set my existence, in my mind, in Paris and some small towns the family visited during certain times of the year.
The problems that the Impressionist painters had at first with public perception is detailed.
His son, Jean, shares Renoir's beliefs about many things with the reader, so we understand Renoir, who was basically an intelligent, well read man.
The overall feeling that I got while reading this book was relaxation.
I picked it up and relaxed into the story again and again.
An extraordinary, tender, artful biography, by a great artist about another one who happened to be his father. If you love Jean Renoir films (and how could you not?), and are not as keen on A. Renoir paintings, this will give you a very new insight into the times, the man, and his many styles....Highest recommendation for the times you need to be reminded how great humankind(ness) can actually be. It also helps if you are missing France and need a big shot of frenchness in all its eccentricity.
Loved this book!
You not only get insight into Renoir, but to many of the painters of that period.
They were friends, comrades and that made it interesting.
Plus it spans a time from about mid 1800s until Renoirs death in the early 1900s so you get to glimpse Paris in a very interesting time.
It is quite a span - from Monmarte being farm land and a queen still in the palace, the impressionist movement and how they were riduculed- and it is fascinating as well as lovingly told.
Some may find it lighweight I found it lovely
I enjoyed this book very much!Renoir's son, the author, presents a clear picture of his Father's character. I can never again view a Renoir painting without appreciating and reflecting on the type of person Renoir was --- someone who valued the simple things in life.
The first 8 chapters are great! The ninth includes more adult- oriented material, so it may not be suitable for all and the latter chapters in the book tend to drag a bit, compared to the highly entertaining beginning chapters. In this book one can clearly see Renoir's thinking, as told by his son. It is refreshing and timeless- though through time social values have changed (for the worse, IMO). I great read whether you are interested in art or not!
This is a little gem. Based on his own childhood memories, conversations with his father, and reminiscences of the famous painter's fellow artists and associates, Jean Renoir has created a unique and detailed rendering of the painter's daily life. He lovingly describes Renoir's philosophies and the sometimes quirky ideas that guided his work and his way of living. This book is moving up near the top of my best books ever list.
