https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7619292-twilight
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestYou know what's embarrassing? Going into a thrift store when you're almost thirty years of age and buying Twilight: The Graphic Novel while the teenage male cashier judges you.WHATEVER, TEENAGE MALE CASHIER. I REGRET NOTHING. AND NOW I HAVE TWILIGHT: THE GRAPHIC NOVEL AND YOU DON'T. SO I WIN.When this book first came out in 2010, my first thought was, "Are you kidding me?" It looked like a cash grab to capitalize off the movie. Twilight man
Going into a thrift store when you're almost thirty years of age and buying Twilight: The Graphic Novel while the teenage male cashier judges you.WHATEVER, TEENAGE MALE CASHIER.
AND NOW I HAVE TWILIGHT: THE GRAPHIC NOVEL AND YOU DON'T.
SO I WIN.When this book first came out in 2010, my first thought was, "Are you kidding me?" It looked like a cash grab to capitalize off the movie.
I initially liked the books, but the movies and the fans turned me off the series so fast because there was no escape.NO ESCAPE.
Yes, it is a graphic novel of a book that was turned into a movie but...
So: a disclaimer to start with for those wunnering what the hey am I doing reading Twilight The Graphic Novel in the first place.
Alright, let’s just white knuckle this sucker and get the hell out of dodge!So let’s talk about Edward Cullen, aka Shovel Face (gawd bless those Honest Trailers), the sole reason why this drek got so unfathomably popular in the first place.
Maybe it’s explained in the novel proper but I have no idea why Edward goes to high school in the first place.
I don't even know why I bothered with this, but I will concede that the artwork to this graphic novel is intricate, detailed and very dazzling. The Twilight story in and of itself is still equally as awful in illustrated form as it is in plain text though, so I really hope the artist who created the graphics for this book finds a better platform for their beautiful talent.
This book was a little sporadic but I enjoyed it! Obviously it's not the full novel so a lot of lines were cut but I liked getting to see a lot of parts that weren't in the movie! I did find it strange that some scenes looked like stills from the movie, but whatever I guess! I want to get volume 2!
I don't know if this is 4 stars in general or just 4 stars in comparison with the books... but it was definitely easier to get through the writing in this format!
You should know that I was a fangirl at the time Twilight hit cinemas.
I read all the books, saw all the movies and was very much in love with the series in the beginning.
It's my least favorite book in the series.So reading this graphic novel is all about nostalgia for me.
It's me trying to recapture that feeling I had for the franchise in the beginning.
You know, I actually get butterflies in my stomach from great book romances.
The graphic novel didn't necessarily give me that feeling, but it helped me remember how I first fell in love with the Twilight phenomenon.
Anyone familiar with graphic novels knows they don't take long to read.
It's only volume one, through the meadow scene.
I don't know if the rest of the story wasn't finished in time for publishing, or if more than one volume was planned.
I can't wait to have the rest.The illustrations are beautifully rendered and so representative of the written descriptions.
The written story is abbreviated, not giving as much of Bella's thoughts, but enough to communicate her personality.
Edward is also well communicated, in the drawings, the written physical actions, and of course in his words, which I'll reiterate is faithful to the novel.
(#RIP, it didn't survive the move to my new home)Alright, let's get down to the nitty-gritty of things.Is this a literary masterpiece?
It's replete with insta-love, cringe-worthy scenes, and sparkly vampires.I do, however, prefer the graphic novel adaptation over the movies and original books.
Twihards: Do I even need to convince you to read this?Potential Twihards: If you're too scared to touch the original series, even with a 10-foot pole, then I suggest you give this graphic novel series a try!Twihaters: I apologize if my review has triggered any horrible memories of the crazed 'Twilight' era.
Illustrations are done very beautifully. I liked it better than the movie. I enjoyed it very much.
I'm not gonna lie, this was a fun graphic novel. I really liked the art style and the way the characters were visualized and the story was familiar and fun. I'm here we're a few changes to the original story that made it interesting to read. The voice of the characters was still very much the same but Bella was a bit less obnoxious in it, which I appreciated. I'm glad I randomly came across this at my library.
Picked this up at a library sale for like 30 cents. AND IT'S BEAUTIFUL. I don't even care if the story sucks. The art is gorgeous and all the pages are glossed. Whoa.
Bellissimi i disegni della Graphic Novel! Mi mancava questa storia, quindi ho deciso finalmente di leggere la versione Graphic Novel e l'ho amata :D
Even the backgrounds are highly detailed, and each page makes sure to use almost every square inch available.
The pacing and the layout of the drawings keep you turning pages at a furious rate, and I can't wait to go through it again to take in the art a bit more because I am sure that every time you read this you will notice more and more details that went previously unnoticed.
Before my reading:Finally, I got my hands on it!
YES!
YES!
YES!Twilight, here I come...After my reading:What?!
I wanted to read Twilight, with the original story, you damn graphic novel!
**sigh**What happened to dull, insipid Bella?
Not that I liked that, it's just that...
it isn't the Bella I know.
You can't just change a character's attitude that much so it can be more enjoyable or whatever the reason was.
Urgh...I hope it gets better.Ok, the graphics were quite beautiful and that made my reading pleasant.
So my rating is actually an average of :The story: ★★☆☆☆The characters: ★★☆☆☆The graphics: ★★★★☆
No slight to the handsome Robert Pattinson, but this is the way I had imagined Edward Cullen to look like - gorgeous and other-worldly in his male beauty.
For those of us who know the story like the back of our hand, this first volume concludes with Bella and Edward leaving the forest, with the initial secrets of vampires revealed in their pretty swath of forest.
I highly recommend this book to all fans of Twilight, vampire lovers, and reluctant readers who need a more aesthetically pleasing introduction to the world of Bella Swan and Edward Cullen.
3.5 stars. Brilliant art work - that's what really won me over with this!
3.5 stars. The artwork in this is so beautiful! But mostly now I just really want to read all the twilight books again--I haven't read them since they were first published!
I have yet to find any artist's rendition of the story (whether it be in film or a drawing) that captures the vivid images I had in my head when I first read the book, but this is a very beautiful version.
She looks like some glamour queen, when if her looks had been toned down a little she still would have been very attractive but in a more normal way.The fact that the book was in sepia tones except for a few pages when the author added well-placed splashes of color made it very unique and delightful to read and look at.
wow... that was a pretty terrible graphic novel. Not because it was Twilight, because I do like Twilight, but it was just ALL OVER THE PLACE, and they tried to cram way too much into this one book. The plot jumped around nonsensically and it was PRETTY ANNOYING. Also at one point there was a scenic shot of the La Push beach that just looked like they took a photo from the movie, made it a little blurry and scribbled on it to make it look like a drawing... like really bad yo.
Twilight in stripvorm. New girl in town, gevaarlijke jongen, glittertjes op je huid en een vegetarische vampier. Of het wat voor mij was? Je leest het in mijn recensie over de graphic novel van Twilight: http://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie/...
You know what, if I'm allowed to be completely and utterly honest - I probably would have liked Twilight a lot more if it were a graphic novel in the style of Japanese manga or Korean manhwa, at least that's what I told myself when I thought about it after reading the whole series of books (despite having issues with the plot and pacing).
I've read many series over the years in those formats because I have a genuine love for some of the stories (Monster, NANA, etc.).Having said that, the announcement of Twilight's graphic novel adaptation came as a surprise - because I honestly didn't think it would come to fruition.
I can now see why someone had even decided to donate this to the library, either because they hated the book just as much (or more) than me, or that, for a better reason, they wanted for other people to ee the stupidity and spread the word that Twilight has just found a new form of rock bottom, and just gave shame a new image.Definate waste of time.
When a particular novel really doesn't click, or I just really adored a book, I would try and find a graphic novel version.
I was also aware that this, like so many popular books, has had some haters and some lovers-- that the audience of readers is very split on whether this is a good or bad book.
Let me just say that I threw it across the room after the first 30 pages.Yes, it was that bad.
I mean, the plotline was just plain badly imagined, poorly written, and some of the illustrations were quite obviously printed right on the page.
The condensed, handsome graphic novel version of the doorstopper-length novel is a much faster read and retains what I know of the story.
Good enough for me.Vampires are more romantic than other human sanguivores, say zombies or cannibals - you never see cannibal romance novels, do you?
It's not terribly fair to fault works I know are not my forte I suppose, but Twilight tends to bypass the disturbing aspects being a vampire would come with in favour of the allure of eternal beauty (and 
Twilight's story works for a graphic medium, and Kim's art is honestly dazzling.
So romantisch und spannend, dass dem Leser bei diesem wunderschön geschriebenen Buch eine Gänsehaut über den Rücken läuft.Quelle: carlsen.deMeinung: "Ich hatte nie groß darüber nachgedacht, wie ich sterben würde, obwohl in den vergangenen Monaten allen Grund dazu gehabt hätte."Das Cover finde ich wirklich sehr schön, es zeigt Bella in der Comic Version und ich finde, dass sie wirklich hübsch aussieht.
Ich finde, jeder Fan sollte diesen Comic, wenigstens als Ergänzung, gelesen haben, für alle die Twilight nicht abgöttisch lieben, ist es aber kein muss.Fazit:Ein toller Comic, der mich wieder in die Zeit von Twilight zurückversetzt hat.
Plot - 3/5Characters - 4/5World Building - 3/5Writing Style - 3/5Cover - 5/5Art - 5/5Overall Rating - 4.6 / 5 The art was way to damn beautiful compared to the movie.
Or, at least the first volume of the first book (and just how much of the library budget do I have to spend on Ms. Meyer's oeuvre, hmm?) Well, it's very pretty, I'll give it that.
And Bella looks very sweet and believably klutzy as portrayed here, unlike Kristen Stewart, who looks way tougher than vampire boy Edward in the movies.
In the scene where Bella is almost squished between her truck and an oncoming minivan, it is not at all clear how Edward rescues her - we have to rely on the dialog to explain just what happened.
Whatever you may think of the Twilight Saga, books or films, the graphic novel is a very different experience.
I spent half of the time studying the wonderful artwork, and Bella's incredible ability to do a new wondrous thing with her hair every day.
My only gripe, that unfortunately stopped me loving this edition of the story, is the panels dotted throughout the volume where the artist supposedly got a bit bored, rushed or just lazy, and stuck some hastily photoshopped photos in as backgrounds, or (worse still) expanded a small section of an illustration for a close up that teetered precariously on the edge of pixelisation.
Apart from these 'artistic' decisions it's a very high quality and well produced edition.
I'll start by saying that I'm not a big fan of graphic novels, and particularly not of that style used here, but Young Kim has simply won me over.
This book is wonderfully constructed, from the breathtaking illustrations to their incorcopation with "real" landscapes - the Swan residence, the hospital, the meadow - I thought it was really well done.
My only complaint would probably be the lack of color, but I understand the purpose behind it, and it is more effective to have only glimpses of color every now and then in crucial moments.
What a lovely way to revisit one of my favorite books :)
Gorgeous art... but it's still Twilight.
