https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18358.Ladders_to_Fire
Like all the other Anais Nin books I've read so far, this book has incredibly intense and neurotic relationships, quite unbelievable in a way. As always, Nin uses beautiful language (LOTS of metaphors and great vocabulary). It's hard for me to write a review that does any justice to Nin's works; it's like she goes digging deep into the human psyche, and uncovers things most people would never be able to do. That's one of the reasons I find her to be so fascinating.Still, as much as I enjoyed this book, this is definitely not her best work.
Against the Fragility of Reflections"Ladders to Fire" is as far from being a work of erotica as you can imagine.  It’s more a work of neurotica.  I would have been reluctant to use the word "neurotic" had Nin not used it herself. I don’t mean it in any pejorative sense. Nin was trying to live and write about a heightened emotional experience, far from any mainstream vision of safety and happiness. Her novel has been described as "mere psychological case studies" and criticized for its relative l
However, that was the very point of her writing, and her works deserve a place in the vanguard of Modernism, if not Post-Modernism: "Today, a novelist’s preoccupation with inner psychological distortions does not stem from a morbid love of illness but from a knowledge that this is the theme of our new reality…The constant evasion of emotional experience has created an immaturity which turns all experience into traumatic shocks from which the human being derives no strength or development, but neurosis." Much of the factual basis of the novel derives from her diaries.
Na adolescência li e reli, fascinada, os contos eróticos de Anaïs Nin. Esperava sentir renascer, com este livro, o mesmo encanto mas, revelou-se tão entediante que nem o consegui terminar.Está muito bem escrito.
As personagens estão profundamente caracterizadas.
(As quatro primeiras páginas são uma maravilha.)Mas...Muitos diálogos de "não sei quem sou", do "que sonho enquanto durmo".
Muitas descrições alucinantes da realidade..."Balouçar.
Balouçar.
O sossego da folhagem estival rente ao chão como um leito.
Rolar.
Uma máquina com gigantescos gonzos oleados que produzia mel, rios de mel num leito de folhagem estival."Isto é bonito mas tão rebuscado que não percebo nada.
When I was 15 I discovered this book at Borders (there, among all of those gaudy mid-'90s covers, was this relic from the '40s; I thought at the time that it was an old copy, placed there by fate for me alone) and quickly became entranced with Ms. Nin.
I don't remember what happens in this book (arty women fight over a guy at an intense party, I think) so much as the feeling of it -- there's a perpetual mildly lascivious undercurrent, as though it's subtly demanding that all of your senses stand at full attention as you read.
The other thing I remember is that there are abstract drawings by Nin scattered throughout, which I suspect I would still think are awesome.
At some point, she leaves her husband and children -- although her feelings are analyzed continuously, we never actually see the breakup as an event or know exactly when in the story it occurs, only that by the end she has become involved with Jay. The second part, "Bread and the Wafer", begins with her having apparently lived for some years in Paris; we are never told, much less shown, how or why she, Jay, and several other characters have ended up in France, they are just there.
the four stars come with a little qualification: there were little snags for me at first, and at parts, because nin's deeply essentialist notions of women and men and how they relate sometimes amounts to descriptions of characters and situations that don't ressonate with me-- don't feel familiar and true.
other times they do, perfectly.
other times they do, terrifyingly.
but the thing gains momentum, and at some point nin's writing becomes utterly translucent-- the author is refined out of existance and the thing is perfectly captured.
this book was beautiful, but almost burdensome. the writing was exquisite: she can put feelings into such concrete contexts that i am always convinced of a cold, hard heart or flaming rage or sadness that could crush like a thousand stones. but, though i loved the emotion in it, the entire book was purely that; nothing happened. an interesting way to move through 150 pages for sure, but i just felt incredibly taxed afterwards...not her best book.
I don't know why this book is called erotica, it mostly arouse my intellectual properties not the sexual ones.
I was amazed by the prose style from the beginning to the end.
The only difficulty I had was to sometimes separate the female characters because they all had so many characteristics in common ( chaos, jealousy, deep sensitivity etc).
I was here just so I could say I read a book of Anaïs Nin and satisfy my curiosity, but I am certainly leaving this book and going for the next one.
As I've heard, the characters in Ladder to fire are to be found in the rest of her books, in a way or another.
"This fear appeared at the peak of their deepest moments, a precipice all around their ascensions. This fear appeared through the days of their tranquility, as a sign of death rather than a sign of natural repose. It marked every moment of silence with the seal of a fatal secret. The greater the circle spanned by the attachment, the larger she saw the fissure through which human beings fall again into solitude."-part I -THIS HUNGER
I am falling off a cliff because I suddenly could not remember how to climb. At the bottom, slam the body up against the mind.[…]Show me a place that isn’t a prison. I want to feel beautiful and alive and not like I am weighed down by the very essence of what I am.
A transparently poetic and psychological short novel based on two women who love the same man; of their relationships with him and their friendship with each other. No real plot and it was mixed but it had some great parts to it in terms of psychological insight or emotional poetry.
The interior lives, the thoughts, emotions, and fears of 1930's expatriates in Paris.Book Review: Ladders to Fire is unlike any novel I've read.
It's for readers who enjoy character-based, as opposed to plot-driven, novels.
Ladders to Fire is the first in Anais Nin's so-aptly named five-novel series, Cities of the Interior, as it explores the inner lives, conflicts, neuroses, insecurities, loves and hates of bohemians in Paris (btw, it's not erotica).
The people described are artists, nonconformists, free spirits, a lost generation with turbulent, histrionic lives: "Only the drunks and the insane make sense." Nin's deep psychological studies make the characters seem almost like archetypes.
To date, Nin is regarded by many as a feminist and literary pioneer of her time; which stands to reason considering the time she lived in.
It cuts deep, and knowing Nin projected aspects of her personality into personae salts the wound.
In that regard, Ladders to Fire betrays Nin—like Dunham—as rather unremarkable.
Perhaps, Ladders to Fire is best read as an aside or accompanied by some intersectional commentary wherein one might be inclined to see Nin as a mere product of her time and class whose recourse was to emulate the edgelords with whom she kept company; including, but not limited to, Miller.
My second time reading this. It jumps at points, which can be disconcerting, but it's still good work, overall, and a lot of the lines are genius (Why Nin is quoted from her diaries, but not from these works, is a bit beyond me.) Though the first work is mainly about Lillian, Djuna tends to remain my favorite character in the book. For me, personally, everyone else just passes or passes through. (I might read this a third time, just to check some of those lines, but I'll wait a while.)
It’s my first Anais book , I liked the way she defines the characters , their psychology, thier mood but the book almost didin’t have a topic and for this reason I have lost my interest to the book after a while and could hardly finish it.
Meh. There were some gold human insights, but I've got to say, I was flicking through the pages when it got too weird or too boringly descriptive. It is a 5 book series, I think, but I'll give the next one a go.
Beautiful. I truly resonated with nearly every struggle and trait. Shear honest and vulnerable writing.
I think Anais Nin understands people really really well.
She doesn't explain these things as if she is talking about human nature, but just her intuition of how people are.
My favourite quote from the book: "He had the appetite of the age of giants.
He could read the fattest books, tackle the most immense paintings, cover the vastest territories in his wanderings, attack the most solemn system of ideas, produce the greatest quantity of work.
I am leaving this book unrated on purpose -- I do not think it would be fair to Nin or myself to assign this book a number
Anaïs Nin has some of the most eloquent, honest quotes I have ever seen; her way of writing is an observation of life, love, and human interaction that is unabashedly lifelike that you immediately find yourself in her work, even if she is simply writing a passing thought in her diary documentations (also a great read, if you can find it).The most quotes I saw from her work came from "Ladders to Fire," which is the evolving story of a woman named Lillian who gains and loses many people and really finds herself constantly in a state of anxiety from comparing herself to others, over-thinking people's actions, and never quite knowing who she is or where she is comfortable.
Normally, I would completely devour longer and more complex works by Anais Nin in a mere day or so, but somehow, someway, with Ladders To Fire, I found my attention slipping, and after just a page or so, I had already grown bored of reading it.
She has ideas I could never imagine anyone having, and manages to explain the simplest of emotions in the most complex and abstract of ways, much like D.H. Lawrence (favorite writer of all time.) I loved her for this, for her spirit and energy, for the passion she puts into a single sentence, and the genuis of her creativity, and yet in Ladders To Fire, I found none of this.
Monica Pavani, Scale di fuoco, Fazi, Roma 1998 ISBN 8881120801 ISBN 97888811287921947 - Children of the Albatross, trad.
Martina Rinaldi, Figli dell'albatros, Fazi, Roma 2001 ISBN 8881121883 ISBN 9788881128525 Part I: The Sealed RoomPart II: The Cafe1950 - The Four-Chambered Heart, trad.
Martina Rinaldi, Le quattro stanze del cuore, Fazi, Roma 1999 ISBN 88811211581954 - A Spy in the House of Love, trad.
Delfina Vezzoli, Una spia nella casa dell'amore, Bompiani, Milano 1979 ISBN 88452914991961 - Seduction of the Minotaur, postfazione di Wayne McEnvilly, trad.
Gioia Zanette, Seduzione del Minotauro, SugarCo, Milano 1963; trad.
Martina Rinaldi, Seduzione del Minotauro, Fazi, Roma 2000 ISBN 8881121433 1958 (comprende Solar Barque)
For me, reading this was like finally tasting some very particular kind of chocolate that I had suspected for years I would really enjoy, and then having it surpass my expectations.
I can't believe no one has ever made me read Nin before; I couldn't put it down and it was entirely due to how she was writing, not the plot, which is a pretty rare occurrence in my reading life.
There's a certain streak of violent heterosexuality that is disturbing but accurate; interesting explorations of femininity, masculinity, and female friendship/competition; and simply beautiful, unexpected, original metaphor.
Prose poetry, basically.


At one point, while reading, I felt like I was caught in a web, a familiar web, one created by myself. Heartfelt and captivating all the way to the end.
I'm a little forlorn about this book, because I have friends who adore Anais Nin, and I was really looking forward to reading her. I came across this book at a library sale. Nonetheless, I just really didn't like the book! It struck me as a bit Harlequin romance, a bit teen angst, and none of the characters proved very likeable. I could hardly get through it. Help! Lovers of Anais! Give me your recommendations!
I loved the intensity and urgency of this book. Here's an excerpt, as recorded in my book journal:"For he passed on with royal detachment and gazed seriously for relief at the steel and wood mobiles turning gently in the breeze of the future, like small structures of nerves vibrating in the air without their covering of flesh, the new cages of our future sorrows, so abstract they could not even contain a sob."
Okay, it's been a while since I read this. (And let me assure you that this is the wrong cover, because my copy is so ugly it would make your eyes bleed.)But I love Anais Nin. That's... pretty much it. Reading her is difficult because I get distracted thinking about how beautiful it is. Same problem I have with sitting down and reading a lot of poetry all at once.
I'm a huge Anais Nin fan so I eat up any of her work. This is not her best however. There are some interesting imagery and unique insights into the nature of relationships per usual but I feel very indifferent toward the protaganist and the plot just meanders its way through different periods of time.
