https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/857920.Silverwing
(character studies, friendship, compare the various bat characters with people you might know...leads conversation into bullying, deceitful people, friends vs enemies, creative writing and nature studies etc.) This is a beautifully written novel which gives descriptions and facts in an interesting manner.
The best result of reading this book, is my grandson has asked for the next two books in the series!
Thanks Kenneth Oppel for creating a wonderful series of books.
Today's Parent writes: "Your child won't be able to resist a feisty, young Silverwing bat, and the fascinating, dangerous adventures Ken Oppel has created for him." 5 stars
Who writes a book about bats? Kenneth Oppel does! And he does it extremely well. The characters are all very realistic and I felt like I was watching real bats with the descriptions and actions. One of my favorite things that still blows my mind about this book is that the author admits to using only 'black', 'white', and 'silver' as colors in the book. I didn't even notice, but now that I know it's very amazing to me. Kudos to Kenneth Oppel and his great writing.
It was just so capturing!
It was quite fast-paced I found, but I liked that for a change!It was just un-put-down-able!
The story-line is very original, which I loved, and is about bats!
This is my very first bat fiction story that I've read, and it had made me have a taste for bat stories!This is a flawless and exciting story {{I found myself cheering and wishing Goth and Throbb would just hurry up and die!}} and everyone should read it!{{I am aware that it says I started it on the 30th August, but I didn't actually start reading it until Saturday the 8th}}
The fact that it fits an October month challenge, along with the fact that my local library actually had it in the shelves, pushed it up the line a bit.It was a cute adventure story about a runt silverwing bat who is smart and curious and questions things, when most of his colony goes along with the status quo out of (justified) fear.
(Also, I kind of found the one cult-group of bats more frightening than the actual villains.)The ending was sweet, but it's definitely a set up for a series.
Lots of threads left dangling to be continued on.
A message from my 10 year old self: This is an excellant book! It is all about the journey of a young bat, and what he encounters. I learned quite alot, not like it's true or anything (but it might!) and I didn't get bored. I read it in approximately a day. Bullies, friends, myths and lots more fun stuff is jammed into this great novel! Congrats Oppel!
Being a fan of bats, I was very pleased to find this new trilogy, with bats as the main characters! The hero's quest to find his colony, as well as unraveling layers of legend and mystery surrounding an ancient prophecy, was fun. I especially liked the aerial action scenes and the description of echolocation.
I really like this book because it's full of adventures. I was really impressed by the author, as that he basically wrote a nonfiction book about bats into a fictional story. Besides from that, he descriptions are very specific. If you have read the book, you'll notice that he didn't use any colors to describe except for black and white. I recommend this book to people who enjoy adventure stories.
Although, the characters and emotions are so realistic, I can hardly believe it is a fantasy.
Bats are my favorite animals, so you could see why I loved the characters.
But the characters' personalities and emotions will catch anyone's interest, even a person who doesn't like bats.
A mixture of adventure, friendship, and thrill, this novel left me hungry for more, so I went on to read the other two in the trilogy (Sunwing and Firewing) and I'm surely going to read Darkwing.
I highly recommend this book, and if you read it and like it, continue on and read the other books.
I read this book a long time ago and a few of the concepts in it stuck with me... I liked the idea of the echo-chamber that houses all the knowledge of the bats, just like we have books (or now the internet). It's a one-star because the characters are bland, the theme is boring, and the 'message' is too weak even for a children's book.
I loved it, it was a inspiring story of a small bat who's bravery is anything but small and determination of a fierce character. The story is wonderfully written and beautiful.
Charming animal fantasy for children, readable for adults.
for some reason i remember this being one of the first novels i read in grade 2-3? wow, memories. i also read it out of order. the more you know. firewing, silverwing, sunwing. yay.
Animal fantasy using bats as the main characters - you have to be creative to pull something like that off.
I forget where I saw a recommendation for this series, but, initially, I thought, no way.
Then I saw it at a used bookstore for cheap and bought the first two books.
There's some odd relationships going on in the book, but I'm assuming that Oppel is laying out the immaturity of the main characters.
Bonus points if you use different voices for the different characters.
Extra bonus points if you figure out what bats would sound like if they could talk.
I did not enjoy the book even though it was a nice storyline as it had way too many weird religious ideas imprinted into the characters, especially for a children's book.
Pretty good book
Shade and his herd of bats are living in their dream home where owls don’t ever touch them in the night because it’s like, a law, or something.
Now, we all know that owls don’t particularly like bats all that much.
They want to get him into trouble, until Frieda (I think that’s her name), the main silver wing bat ruler, tells them off.
So, Frieda is a banded bat, and he takes shade (our good old main character...
Because she also wanted to meet some of the banded bats.) a bunch of boring stuff happens afterwards..
A perpetually-curious outcast who has to overcome the odds, try to figure out some mysteries, avoid bad guys, make new friends, and manage to make his first winter migration without the rest of his colony.
My one problem with the book was the flatness of the characters.
Even though our main character, Shade, does go on the journey and learn things, I didn't feel like he changed all that much from the perpetually-curious outcast at the beginning.
All the other characters are also pretty flat.
This one did seem to focus on mainly setting the stage for future books by introducing the characters and setting.
Aside from that I don't have any real complaints about this book.The story whilst simple is well constructed and is always moving and keeping you interested as a reader young or old.
It really lathers itself with action sequences which are brilliantly described and constructed by Oppel and leave you waiting in anticipation for the next.Probably the best part of Silverwing is the characters.
The standout for me is Goth, who despite this being a book for younger readers really embodies evil and fills the roll as villain about as well as can be achieved.
It was initially hard for me warm to the idea of a book with bat protagonists (not that I don't like bats--I'm just not a big "novels about animals" girl) but I loved Oppel's "Airborn" series and was eager for more of his work.
While I don't think the overall story is quite as enjoyable nor the secondary characters as well-developed as the "Airborn" series, this could be two-fold--first, this is a middle grade novel and much shorter than "Airborn" and also it's Oppel's earlier work.
"Silverwing" is a colony of small dark bats, migrating south, ahead of runt Shade.
Swept out to sea by a storm, he meets older Marina, banished by Brightwings who thought her band was a poison curse.
She asks to join Shade's colony, led by a banded elder.
They believe bands are a sign of divine promise that bats will regain the day, against present owl law.
Every stranger has beliefs that challenge and rock Shade's, reminding us to question everyone.
He eats pigeons, who call the owls, who rule that all bats are to be killed, all hours.
"You're the only bat who's liked me because of who I am ...
This book will teach you a lot of things about bats, not the least of which is the distinction between the taste of mosquitoes and moths.
But that's what makes this book so delightful.
Author Kenneth Oppel creates such a richly detailed animal kingdom, that before you know it, you are caught up on the updraft of adventure, following young Shade through the intricate worlds of bats, owls, pigeons, and all the rest.
On another note, I first bought this novel in a used bookstore and was very delighted to open it at home to find that it had been signed by Kenneth Oppel—a great bonus!
I really wasn't sure if I was actually going to be into reading a book about bats but honestly it surprised me.
I've wanted to read this series for awhile but only finally picked it up.
Quite a bit darker then I thought it would be but still pretty good.Goth and his companion are actually pretty scary.
I can't find the right words to express how impressed I am that you never forget that your reading about bats, but it just seems normal and the characters are ones that you can connect to.
At first, it seemed to be a little slow, but once the story takes off, it becomes a real page turner. I liked how the author describes the world without using color. It's done so well, that I didn't miss color in the descriptions of what Shade, the protagonist bat, sees. Also, the author kept me engaged with the characters by describing the sights and sounds through the characters sense of sight, smell, hearing and more importantly, through echolocation.Fun read and will probably read the next in the series.
A really fine and fun book. I'm an adult but when I saw this at a bookstore and that it was about bats I just had to pick it up. I loved it so much I immediately went out and got the sequel, which is also very good. I know there is another sequel to, which I've got on my list to buy.As a kid I always loved stories that gave life and character to animals, and this is a fitting successor to the great works of Jim Kjelgaard and other such writers who did it for me.
Kenneth Oppel is the only author I know who has used bats as protaganists, and the reward to the reader is a unique glimpse into a bat's black and white world. (No colors are used in descriptions in the book.) The main character Shade's longings and affections are remarkably human and the bat rituals and culture are believable. Complex allusions to human behavior, religion and culture make this a story with legs and one I would happily read again.
Exciting adventure with what I found to be a major discourse on religious/cultural exploration and discovery. The book also features some quite dark themes that I didnt expect to find in a kids book, but maybe I don't read enough 90s kid lit anymore!Very batty. I would recommend for fans of the Warriors series and other animal-POV adventure books.
J’ai choisi de lire ce livre que je ne connaissais pas du tout car il s’agit d’un des coups de cœur de Dan de sa lointaine jeunesse. Il m’a dit encore et encore que je devais absolument lire cette saga qui se compose de 4 livres plutôt axés jeunesse et aventure...[CHRONIQUE] -> http://pugoscope.fr/1048-silverwing-t...
Shade and Marina make for great, sympathetic heroes; and Goth makes for a truly terrifying villian.
This book was the first book where I discovered that I could enjoy the story more than the reading
Als ihr Anführer verteidigt Schatten die Fledermäuse vor feindlichen Angriffen der Eulen und erlebt auf seinen nächtlichen Streifzügen Abenteuer, wie sie noch keine Fledermaus bestehen musste.
Auch hier hat der Autor die Artenvielfalt des Tierreichs gut genutzt, und vor allem auch eher "unbeliebte" Tiere vorkommen lassen (ich verrate natürlich nicht zu viel ;D).Der SchreibstilIch mochte den Schreibstil sehr gerne und er ist passend für die Geschichte.
Ich könnte mir das Buch auch super als Hörspiel oder Hörbuch vorstellen, wenn es gut gesprochen wird.
