https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6613404-anatomy-of-the-state
His accessibility as a writer leads me to kid myself into thinking that many "aha" moments that happen while reading his work have actually happened in my brain in the past.Many times, certain paragraphs, thoughts or entire chapters will keep dinging in my head, saying, "This can be connected to that one essay you read at such and such time in such and such a way..." over and over again.While I think this is a general indication of wonderful non-fiction and captivating, smart writing in general, these moments happen in a particular way with Rothbard, and reading "Anatomy of the State" was no exception.I started it a few years ago, then hadn't gone back until a few days ago.
Read this now! Download the ebook for free at http://www.mises.org/document/1011/An... It's more of an essay than a book but once your done, you'll never look at the "State" the same again.
There are great quotations like, "Of all the numerous forms that governments have taken over the centuries, of all the concepts and institutions that have been tried, none has succeeded in keeping the State in check." Beneath this excellent writing are some of the best footnotes you will ever read, each pointing to other excellent thinkers like Mencken and Nock.
Every Rothbard book I have read has brilliantly refined and expanded on the work of other great thinkers, showing Rothbard's place among the best intellectual writers of the libertarian movement.
The good, old and raw truth.
Anatomy of the State probes into the structure and legitimacy of government where it exposes the true predatory nature of government.
Preserving the government apparatus is paramount to the continuation of plunder in a colluded alliance of the rulers, operators and intellectuals.Defining what the state is or not is critically important.
The State is not us or the people, it doesn’t represent the majority, and when it does, it is a tyranny of the majority.
All attempts to limit the power of the state has ultimately proven to be futile.Overall, although the book is considerably short, Rothbard provides a brilliant and concise perspective into the underlying basis of government.
This is a very concise statement of the world's foremost anarcho-capitalist, Murray Rothbard's, view of the state. It's pretty dense and not particularly suited to the audiobook format, although the argument doesn't rely on weird redefinitions or anything else -- more, that the impact of relatively simple statements takes some reflection to consider. Probably better as a print book, although the narration was technically fine.Rothbard's beliefs are certainly extreme, but even if you don't agree fully with them, they seem to be a logically consistent belief system and are worth learning about.
Nunca tinha pensado no estado da forma que é mostrado nesse livro. Ainda tenho algumas duvidas sobre o estado, mas menos do que antes. Interesante o ponto de vista de Rothbard.
This is one of the first books I read of this sort so can't really say much since I have nothing to compare it to. It's a long essay which makes for a short book. I expected it to be boring but it was surprisingly refreshing and eye opening.
While it may be a little too extreme for most readers, this small book is an interesting essay on the organics and nature of the State, what is is, what it is not, and how it survives.
Rothbard claims that all States begin with a bunch of thugs gaining control over a territory and then trying to find a way to make their subjects feed them without causing a revolution.
He adds many quotations from previous authors and points to some historical facts that question our current idea that 'we are all the State' and that without the State people just couldn't live together.I recommend it to any reader interested in politics, as it is very short and thought-provoking, even though most readers may find it too arrogant.
I've never read a book and felt like I was cheering on a sporting event until I read this one.
I guess because it's rare to read a book these days where someone actually understands and cogently describes the nature and history of the State without idolizing and lauding its paternal — or rather, authoritarian — attributes.
This short work is something I wish my family and friends would take the time to read, especially those with such forthright opinions, but something tells me you won't.
There's only so much you can do from your couch and recliners and reading a book isn't one of them.
This is opposed to considering them as targets for retaliation, based on the assumption they acted against others totally out of free will, psychopathically, without justification or evidence of their behavior being a reasonable response to a set of circumstances that might test the ability of even the most stoic to act "ethically".His rather heroic, even melodramatic attempt at cynicism perhaps confuses the author here:"Since most men tend to love their homeland, the identification of that land and its people with the State was a means of making natural patriotism work to the State’s advantage.
This is a succinct essay only expanding to about sixty pages.
It can be read in 30-40 minutes easily.
It’s offered for free on mises.org.The synopsis is already a letter-perfect summary of what Rothbard’s essay is on.
Nevertheless, it was pleasant reading and opened my mind a bit further to other ideas of what the government is and/or should be.I’ll end on one of my favorite quotes from it:“It is evident that the State needs the intellectuals; it is not so evident why intellectuals need the State.”
A really clear text on what the state can or cannot do. Rothbard delves into the aspects of coercion and plundering off the surplus of others.The biggest takeaway is that no government EVER has managed to keep the state in check.I'll be listening to this again soon for taking better notes. Quoting John C. Calhoun always gets my attention as well.
There is certainly a place for essays and shorter works, but this is not one of Rothbard's better contributions.Essentially a theory of the State as predator. While a useful theory, this pamphlet doesn't do it justice. I found that it presents minimal evidence, hefty speculation, and overall the idea is presented in spurts. Obviously in a short work an idea can't be thoroughly developed, but I find this essay unreasonably jarring and ill-conceived.
He also claims that the natural state of man is production and exchange - yet both history and the natural world demonstrate that is false.
It is just as much the natural state of man to do those things (and possibly more so) than it is to grow crops and voluntarily exchange products.
Finally, he makes a claim that "The natural tendency of a State is to expand its power".
Like his previous comments, any example of a state without that tendency would disprove this claim.
It is not the natural tendency of a state - it is the common tendency of people in power.
The essay was very good, and the source material was well thought out. Rothbard does a great job highlighting the extremes of the state. I will enjoy going back to this for points of reference in the future.
This is the only path I see to mitigate the encroachment of tyranny wherever it may arise and to foster the growth and protection of liberty wherever it may be found - and Mr. Rothbard has here done nothing with his arguments to effectively persuade me that I am incorrect on this point.Furthermore, in the context of the current American state (with which I am most intimately familiar): I am unconvinced that the state is inherently parasitic, as it provides transactional services and Mr. Rothbard does not adequately address that point.
The author presented a passionate argument against governments. The biggest problem I have with this argument is that it's entirely one-sided, without even considering the benefits of government. A non-trivial portion of the arguments are also not supported by facts and there are many leaps to conclusion.Nevertheless, the book gives me interesting insights about how "parasitic" governments may work.
Short but sweetI love these ideas, so it is a bit like preaching to the choir, but I enjoyed Rothbard's analysis of state power nonetheless. His references to other works gives me a few more items to add to the reading list. Thanks to LvMI for making this one available digitally!
My first foray into heavier Libertarian reading. It was a very good, succinct (possibly too succinct) read. A great overview of general Libertarian thought.
A short and very to-the-point critic of the State. A must read, for everyone! Why everyone? Because we are all ruled by the State, but really shouldn't have to be.
No matter if you agree or not with Rothbard, this short book is definitely a must read to every social science student
This book/essay needs an expansion and bit more details.
Um pequeno, mas poderoso livro. Altamente recomendado!
It is no news that in many countries the Supreme Court makes decisions that go against the interest of the majority, proving badly entertained governments can use the Supreme as an ally to approve their actions.Another important topic is about the State violence monopoly, through the police, who can hit and kill without punishment, while a citizen who commits these same crimes goes to jail.
However, taxes must be seen as a compulsory contribution each individual makes to society, according to their financial capacities, so the State can provide services to all the population, especially for the poor that don’t have the means for proper education, health and security and in many cases depend on social security for their own survival.
(Hint: it's not)My responses in order of egregiousness:The intellectuals are complicit with the state in that they create the ideas that everyone else accepts.
Nevermind that they fight against the very state you say they're complicit with to deliver ideas of liberation to the people.
They are a ruling elite (even if you directly work for the government as part of a state-run entity that does actual work and know actual government representatives on a first-name basis and have seen exactly how they live..
As far as I remember, one argument that was completely new to me was that of Judicial oversight.
I definitely need to read more of Rothbard to understand his solution.
My recent reading diet is taking me a little too closer to a line of thought starkly different from what I had fashioned so far.
I buy Chomsky's solution of Anarchism (which is not communism or chaos; whoever thinks that, please oh please read Chomsky) but it still feels too idealistic.
Anyhow, a book that makes you think is never worth not reading.
This is a quick read, and I think the premise of the essay should be something everyone should know the answer to.
He argues that state destroys our freedom and threatens our lives and does all this under "good intentions." Despite that, despite your views what and how big a state should be this essay is worth your time.Everyone should understand the basic concepts under what we live in, what are the reasons behind the state's actions and why those actions come to be.
If you argue with me and think, why should I read this, if he is against the state?
In this book Rothbard first try to briefly describe what the State is and is not.
He argue that the State isn't "us"; it has a separate existence from its people and seeks it's own interests.
Rather he quickly base his idea on extreme individualism--indeed it's absolutely against the existence of the State.
At first he says that the State isn't the people, because it don't represent their interests or even does the opposite.
So it's paradoxical, if we believe in individualism that implies people choose what they want base on their best interests, how they could be so ignorant to don't stand against the State when they could?!
Like all of Rothbard's works that I have read, "Anatomy of the State" is well written and thought provoking.
Rothbard further discusses how constitutions and other attempts to limit state power have been largely ineffective.
In the United States, for example, the power to interpret the U.S. Constitution has been vested in the Supreme Court, an arm of the federal government itself.
He discusses the idea of state nullification in relation to the U.S. Constitution; if we accept that states can nullify federal law, then we can take this logic all the way down to the individual level.
Despite its short length, "Anatomy of the State" has a lot to unpack.
