https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54847.Oil_
is one of my favorite American novels, because Sinclair was fascinated and bewildered by the beginnings of mass-consumer culture here in the U.S., and his descriptions here of oil rigs, cars, radios, jazz music, and Hollywood are very perceptive and eye-opening.
The opening chapter is a tour-de-force description of taking a 50 mph drive in those early days.
It's true that the novel is didactic and that Sinclair was a socialist, so you may not agree with all the Big Points he tries to arrive at--but the ride he takes you on to get there is exhilarating for anyone interested in how the so-called "American century" was born.
In keeping with the politically-minded storyteller's way of using a fictional narrative to drive home a point, Sinclair has this time chosen a California oil baron and his idealistic son as the vehicles with which to air his own beliefs about corporate corruption and greed.
He even spends a good deal of time displaying, in a very Fitzgerald-esque way, the carefree lifestyle led by the foppish son and daughter heirs to oil fortune.
But make no mistake about it, Sinclair was always on the working man's side...The movie There Will Be Blood is based on this book, but the two are quite different.
Upton Sinclair drank my milkshake....he drank it up! I thought I was going to read a book about the oil industry in California circa 1920 but ended up with a book about World Communism. Oh well, at least it was interesting.
Overall I enjoyed it and have recommended it to several of my friends who still believe in reading books.A couple of my impressions of the novel:While the oil industry and associated government corruption were portrayed in a damning light, I was surprised at how the majority of the main characters were portrayed in a balanced, human way - except for one particular character, I felt no one was portrayed as an extreme angel or villain.
Bunny's constant inner conflict over which camp was the "right one" for him, left me with the strong impression that this inner conflict was a direct mirror of Sinclair's frame of mind at the time, and writing this section of the book was his way of weighing both ideologies and working things out for himself.
Sinclair wrote with the fervent energy of a true believer, but the entire time I read the book, I approached it with the perspective of history in mind.
Sinclair even advances the ideal of putting people in khakis only to get rid of "fashion" -- which again, is something the Nazi party did.So, it's interesting to read this from an historical perspective, it just devolves into whiny idealism by the end.
'There Will Be Blood' is LOOSELY based on this book; that is to say there is oil drilling in each and there's a creepy charlatan for a religious leader, but that's about it.
The first half of this book was excellent and gives a real explanation of how oil drilling worked at the turn of the century.
The second half of the book is really about socialism, as the main character (the son of the 'oil man') struggles between the greedy wealth of his father and his belief in worker's rights.
I found the second half of the book to be tiresome and to put it bluntly, boring and repetitive.
It's the story of Bunny Ross, a boy who follows his father, J.
And like Tolstoy, Sinclair strives to make every decision and thought of his protagonist over the length of his life, open to the readers.
Yes, Sinclair strives to advance his thoughts on socialism, but I didn't find it anymore overbearing than Tolstoy's interpretation of the invasion of Russia and Tolstoy's not so subtle push for finding God.Edit: I've since seen the movie.
Now that I have finished reading the book, I have to deduct a star.
Since neither have relevance in the US today, it's an unfortunate turn in the book.
Overall a pretty interesting book, focused on the period of American history from the outbreak of World War I to the end of the Harding administration, particularly in relation to the Red Scare and the labor movement.
Sinclair's ideological slant, though at times painfully naive, does lend freshness; when the characters encounter actual historical events, they aren't the usual ones.
His characters rarely rise above the level of propaganda, but Sinclair has a gift for storytelling that makes the story work.
I didn't love this book, but I found it interesting, well worth a first read.
The movie, There Will Be Blood was based upon this novel, although this was originally published in the 1920s.The Roaring Twenties...think President Warren Harding and the Teapot Dome Scandal.
If you've ever driven through Southern California, you will still see some of the original oil grasshoppers that are described in this novel, while the larger derricks once dominated the previously tranquil land.
If you liked the movie, be prepared for so much more in this great novel.
Most folks run to Fitzgerald for a review of that notorious decade, but for me, this book does the trick all by its lonesome.
tiene un arranque muy enérgico, es decidido, con planes de atraparte desde el principio y pareciera que es una adaptación fidedigna la que hiciera Anderson del libro.Hay que reconocer que el trabajo documental que despliega Sinclair es de altura.
A partir de este punto la novela pasa a ser una interminable demostración de la lucha de la clase obrera por sus derechos políticos y económicos, muy aburrido.¡Petróleo!
fue publicada en 1927 y su autor deseaba comprobar hasta qué punto el movimiento obrero podía conmover una conciencia a priori poco proclive a ello.There Will Be Blood, la reciente adaptación al cine de la novela, abarca sólo el primer tercio del libro.
Before chapter XVIII, the book is great as we follow the main character, "Bunny" Ross, Jr., as he learns about the oil business and all of its corruption first hand from his father.
Then after chapter XVIII, the story breaks down as Dad flees from investigations into the Teapot Dome scandal he has gotten himself into (despite the warnings of his son).
In job interviews when I'm asked to name a hero, I always list Upton Sinclair and Rachel Carson, because they both manage to be artful, moving, emotional artists, while also writing with an iron pen and changing the world with words on a page.
didn't quite meet what I expected from Sinclair.That said, it's a good book, it's an important book, and like The Jungle it's written with purpose, with passion and intent rather than mere art.
I like how Dad, though seen by the workers as the Evil Oil Tycoon, is not painted quite so simply.
I found this book a great pleasure to read-Sinclair's writing style still holds up very nicely, but it's the story that's most enthralling to me: not the story of the oil business, or a parent becoming a millionaire, but rather the one of becoming politically conscious.
I identified very much with Bunny, and Paul of the book.
In any instance I too underwent my own political shift leftwards winding up a socialist myself.
For Bunny and Paul World War 1 and the Russian Revolution taught them the truth of the world.
Just finished this, which was supposed to be the basis for the movie There Will be Blood. To claim that is like believing Sarah Palin consulted Nancy Pelosi concerning her political career. Just didn't happen. Book is much better and explores the social, economic and political struggles in early 1920s America. Think The Jungle only about the development of big oil. Wonderful characters.
Sinclair was also a flaming communist and unfortunately the last half of the book becomes an apologetic for the Bolshevik revolution.
But as the book progressed he made more and more lame excuses for the excesses of the Bolsheviks, essentially claiming the stories of brutality were made up by capitalist oil and banking pigs to keep the working class revolution from spreading.
If he would have left his writing to the life of the workers, their attempt to form a union and the internal struggles Ross and Bunny as they try to reconcile being an owner in the oil business and treating workers fairly.Just like The Jungle, a fantastic description of the life and work of the story's subjects but too much a promo for socialism.
Few books have had on me the intellectual impact of Sinclair's "The Jungle," so it was with trepidation that I approached "Oil!"Why trepidation?
It is difficult, I think, to write a novel that is more or less a book of philosophy - Sinclair's, of course, that rampant, unrestrained capitalism is good for approximately 3 people out of a billion - but he did it here, and "Oil!", along with "The Jungle" should be required reading for any burgeoning ideologue.
After the incredible experience of THERE WILL BE BLOOD, I had to read the inspiration for the movie. It's no less compelling, fascinating, nor epic. It's also completely different from the movie it "inspired" in terms of plot. "Oil!" is more political, more historical, more satirical, and best of all, it captures a time and place I knew very little about going into the book (even after seeing the movie twice). Highly recommended reading.
Καμία σχέση με την ταινία. Όχι η ταινία δεν είχε ποιότητα, αλλά η υπόθεση είναι η ημέρα με τη νύχτα. Ο Upton βάζει το μαχαίρι στο κόκκαλο και ο Κορτώ έχει κάνει μια απολαυστικότατη μετάφραση. Πολλά είπα... Διαβάστε το!
This book is about capitalism. I would not necessarily recommend - read "The Jungle" instead.
gets five stars not because I fully endorse its political message, which ultimately advocates for a type of Socialist workers' utopia, but because it is -- whether right, wrong, or somewhere in between -- a message that deserves hearing and consideration.It's also disconcerting how closely the world of 1920s California echoes our own -- I often felt as if I were reading about the birth of our current world, from the beginnings of consumer culture to Sinclair's angst over mass communications.
Finally, I feel I could write dozens of pages on the similarities between the books of Upton Sinclair and Ayn Rand.
Some excerpts:"Bunny--of course without any hint that he had ever had knowledge of such a thing--had asked the lady teacher about the possibility of a business man's paying a public official extra sums for his time and trouble in public matters; and the lady teacher had been shocked by such a suggestion, and had declared that it would be bribery without question.
Sinclair's socialist beliefs are very much in evidence, but don't let that put you off -- he doesn't get up on a soapbox so much that it distracts from the plot (though it's obvious that the plot is there in order to push his agenda), and the setting, the situations, and the characters are all engaging and draw you into the roaring 20s oil boom in Southern California.
The movie adaptation was completely different and the story almost unrecognizable compared to the novel (though still good).The weakness in Oil!
A tremendously fun read, mostly due to Sinclair's relaxed, precise cadence.
His sense of language is impeccable, and he turns a phrase with marvelous acuity.
Not as thick or impenetrable as victorian prose, but certainly not as terse as the twentieth century literature proved out.
His description of flapper culture, and the world of the West Coast Gatsby, was fun and unexpectedly rich.
I doubt it turned any of the redder persuasion into a Republican caucus.
As many have said, the descriptions of how oil is gotten from the ground is so detailed and rich that I understand something now that I didn't before.
Is a manifesto for a socialist society and Sinclair’s struggle to bring awareness to the corrupt oil industry during the period of the early 20’s.
The reader must put the novel into the environment in which it was written.
The lead up to and subsequent WW I, the industrial revolution with its attendant greed and corruption, political machines greased by money, and the rise of the Workers’ Revolution and Unions.
I still rate The Jungle as a better novel, but I believe Oil!
has a worthwhile message and is very well written.

I'm interested in politics and this era of US history, so I wanted to like it more.
But, Sinclair is rather preachy here: capitalists are evil, Leninist-communists are too extreme, Socialism is just right.
Sinclair's bias shines through, over simplifying economics and politics.
I've read other authors from the 1920s-'30s (Fitzgerald, Hemmingway, Sinclair Lewis) their pacing, character development and dialogue are superior.
Also, I was hoping this novel would touch on the Teapot Dome scandal more than it does.
Any non-fiction recommendations regarding Teapot Dome and the 1920 presidential election of W G Harding are appreciated.
This is not "There Will Be Blood," although Oil!
I enjoyed the film, and looked forward to meeting its muse.
While the film is a chronicle of the descent of a greed stricken man into madness and depravity, the book is almost Fitzgerald-esque, focusing on the oil man's idealistic son, Bunny, as he flits through life, both feeling responsible for the working man's plight and enjoying the fruits of his father's labor.
I wish I had known the difference between the two before I picked up the novel.
Oil!
This was my first Sinclair novel, and will probably be my last.
Probably the most didactic book ever written, excluding maybe the last twenty pages of THE JUNGLE.
But then again, that's what Sinclair does.
The plot and characters exist only in the idealistic mind of Sinclair; they have precedence neither in reality nor typical fiction conventions, and it's extremely difficult to take him seriously when he writes things like (paraphrasing), "I have heard of no atrocities ever committed by a Bolshevik." Right, Upton.
At the same time, though, almost all of the themes are still very relevant, some of the descriptions (particularly in the first third) are beautiful, and the intent is admirable.
upton sinclair is one of my favorite authors with The Jungle at the top of the list, but this one though very good does not seem to be the same caliber. The movie is TERRIBLE and does not do the book justice.
Bunny feels uneasy about this, but it is business.To drill the oil, Ross has to bribe officials and buy local politicians just to get a road built.
They buy politicians, judges, everyone they need to obtain more land for drilling and to keep the workers down.This book portrays what the communist movement was really all about, and it had nothing to do with taking hard-earned money and giving it to people who didn't earn it.
