https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1250998.The_Shadow_of_the_Lynx
There's also a very odd shift in perspective later in the story, as the first person point of view shifts to another woman for a number of chapters, but to say more about that would get us into spoiler territory.Nora's father-son romances, if you can call it that, were just too off-putting for me, as was the fact that the father (who she marries at age 19(view spoiler)[, though he conveniently dies not too long after (hide spoiler)]) is in, as far as I can tell, his early 50s.
The most interesting thing about this book was its title. DNF at the halfway mark.
This book is special to me because it was the first book I got to read out of the Adult section of the library.
I have a small collection of historical romance that I like to reread every now and then. This is an extremely good read. It paints a graphic picture of the lifestyle and complicated personalities of the characters and does not have a typical ending. It's a romance without the graphic bedroom scenes.
This book looked kind of interesting at first, but it soon turned out to be just a repetitive romance novel. I thought it was a mystery novel (I usually don't read romance books), and I just found it really predictable and dull.
He soon dies and leaves Nora in the care partner/employer Charles Herrick - also known as The Lynx for his dominating personality.
Charles's son Stirling arrives in England to escort Nora to Australia, but they make a curious stop at a country estate called The Whiteladies (named for the nunnery it had been at one time) and Stirling seems to have a strange interest in the estate and it's inhabitants.
Nora soon discovers that The Lynx has a mysterious past of his own, falsely accused of theft in England and deported to Australia as a criminal.
Zzzz
But as I read the blurb at the back of the book, strange remembrance started creeping into my memory and I started "feeling" what I felt when I first read this book.It was bizarre.
The story was a romance story, and I liked the protagonist, but didn't like the love triangle she fell into by falling in love with a friend of her father and her son!
Then Nora went to live with the Lynx and the son.The relationship with Nora and the son was flowering, and I thought it was really sweet.
I was hoping that she'd choose the son rather than the father.
Victoria Holt was a master of the brisk romantic suspense novel, usually historic and always with gothic elements, although in her novels these were never supernatural, unlike many of the other novelists of her day.
"The Shadow of the Lynx" is both similar and different than her other works.
One of its protagonists, Nora Tamasin, displays a quite rare ability to have strong, enduring feelings for several romantic interests, which is again rare in Holt's oeuvre; and its love triangle is darker, and more adult, than most.
Overall, a distinctive work within her canon and one that was a pleasure to re-read.
The story takes you across the world and is filled with mystery and adventure and at it's heart is a story of love and revenge.
The plot revolves around, first, young Nora who is embarking on a life-changing journey to Australia to be with her ward, a man she has never met.
While the simple tea time spent within the garden walls seems insignificant, it becomes a far more important part of the story as Nora and Sterling have met a Minta and her family.The book switches between Minta and Nora's stories so you hear both sides and you will be constantly surprised by where the story takes you and ends up.
This is my second Victoria Holt, and I don't think it was as good as the Landower Legacy.
It focuses on Nora, a young woman who only has her father, and he dies in Australia hunting for gold while she is at finishing school.
She is then sent to his partner in Australia, who will be her guardian.
And even though he is her father's age, he becomes interested in her, and asks her to marry him, even though she is in love with his son, Stirling.
Quite a little incestuous there, Ms. Holt!
Another personal favourite of mine. This novel was a marked departure from the usual Holt style of writing. The heroine itself is very different from previous holt heroines very spirited and plucky and the location Australia comes alive in this book. Also there is more of sexual content in this book than any of her other novels. The ending may not be the one u might expect. I love this book and never grow tired of reading this one.
As with all Victoria Holt's books, there was a lot of mysterious goings on. Very good read and I have yet to be disappointed in any of her books I've read so far. I think I've almost all of them, but know there are a few that I haven't read yet and look forward to reading them also. My goal is to have each and every Victoria Holt book published.
Victoria Holt is a very good writer. I was drawn into the characters immediately and enjoyed this novel. It wasn't a "typical" romance. I don't think she ever wrote a typical romance! I like reading her because she writes character driven stories and I like those the best. I recommend this to those who like drama and romance, but not the typical type.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
I read all of Victoria Holt mystery/romance books in my 30s. Holt books are a higher caliber of romance fiction than something like Harlequins. Historically accurate. Good recreational reading with something to keep you turning pages.
not big on love stories, but this one wasn't too bad. It spoke to the control a woman has over herself and her intimate involvements without being gaudy or crass(it IS based in the 19th century). It even had a realistic ending without a ot of tooth-aching saccharine.
i've read this book over and over and over. my mom, sisters, grandma, husband, friends, etc. have all borrowed and read it over and over too. one of the best books ever... and i've read thousands...
I have read a few of Victoria Holt's books in the past - this one had an edge to it. Was quite good and made me want to know what was going to happen, so it kept my attention.
I read it on HS. I liked it on HS. Now I don't know. I plan to give this a reread. ;)
One of Victoria's best
Holt, Victoria
Fantastic tale with history woven skillfully into the novel.
See Mistress of Mellyn.
I've read pretty much all of Victoria Holt's work. This was one of the first I read and the motivation behind choosing the next. Absolutely loved this storyline! A real page turner.
It wasn't a story of romance, it was a story of lost romance.
But one thing they disagree on is Linx's determination to get revenge on a family in England that wrongly accused him of stealing decades ago when he wanted to marry their daughter.
Minta's mother is the daughter that Linx wanted to marry.
When Linx unexpectedly dies from a falling tree branch, Stirling takes over where Linx left off and is determined to get the revenge his father wanted and buy Whiteladies.
Nora is against this, but since she loves Stirling and expects to marry him, she goes to England with him.
Warning: dead giveaways lie ahead.A disappointing saga of misconstrued feelings and spineless protagonists.This book should be renamed to Carousel of Wrong Marriages, such is the storyline.Glad its over!
Interesting. Kind of a Thornbirds meets Jane Eyre with a little suspense there at the end.
Not one of Holt's better books. Got to a point where I hated everyone and didn't really care about the characters. They were well written, just kind of unendearing.
