https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138897.Quantum_Healing
I can only assume that this has over 4 stars on average because the typical person who seeks this book out is already prone to believing the nonsense within.I am a scientist, with a PhD in Materials Science and plenty of quantum mechanics in my background (though obviously, I don't know it anywhere near as well as a dedicated physicist in the area would) - Deepak Chopra does not have the faintest understanding of quantum mechanics.
"Quantised healing" might make some sense (redundant but at least logical) or perhaps "quantum mechanical physiology" (which is actually what I thought the book was going to be about, for example the influence of electron spins on the formation of synaptic connections.
Deepak Chopra is an endocrinologist who starts doubting the supremacy of the western approach to medicine. That doesn’t mean he denies his training altogether. But he cannot forget his Indian roots, either. In fact, when he finds out that mind and body are able to cure a person if they work together, or kill her if they work against each other, he returns to the traditional Indian medical approach that they call Ayurveda.  Ayurveda means “the knowledge for long life” in Sanskrit. Because it com
Deepak Chopra is an endocrinologist who starts doubting the supremacy of the western approach to medicine.
In fact, when he finds out that mind and body are able to cure a person if they work together, or kill her if they work against each other, he returns to the traditional Indian medical approach that they call Ayurveda.
While deeply spiritual, Chopra doesn’t give up on western medicine, as mentioned earlier.
Sometimes Chopra himself is the victim of that lack of fusion and balance and gets into a vagary of philosophy and spirituality.
A super book that explains the science behind the seemingly magical ability to heal yourself with your mind, your thoughts and feelings. Truly insprirational reading. If you're into science, spirituality, or both, you will very much enjoy this book. If you're struggling with a desease, this line of thought is definately worth a try. Lots of case studies inclulded.
ParsimonyPlacebo Effect Too painful for me to explain here. If you believe in this stuff do so after you look up the two terms
What a fucking quack.
This book blew my mind like 10,000 times!
Whoa! There is so much bullshit in here! Don't know where to start. If you think you have learned something from this book, write one or two things down and ask a local expert about the subject. Then tell him what you 'learned' in this book about it, prepare to be laughed at!
And that is, a desperate need to animate their spiritual selves now vacated in a high tech, capitalistic world that increasingly dominates them.
Chopra fills that need with a New Age mix of Eastern mysticism, pseudo-science, junk science, and outright snake oil.
There are scientists in the field of quantum mechanics who have blasted his book, dismantling any cause-effect relation between the subatomic (spirit) world and large scale health.
The result being that Chopra retracted his claims, stating it was all a metaphor.
That’s not at all apparent in the book – quite the opposite.
Stress, depression, anxiety, chronic fatigue, the disease of 'being in a hurry' ..#modernman #arcadefire--our hectic lives has accustomed us to turmoil.we are thoroughly indoctrinated by the idea of a certain degree of internal conflict being normal.
Meditate, eat right, rest-- there are no rewards from our jobs that could possibly outweigh the danger we have put ourselves in.
Pay attention, and your problems will correct themselves.
We have the best medicine -- it's our own attention.
Right now, the quality of that attention is fearful and tense, which is why we aren't getting better, as soon as your awareness becomes settled and Loses its fear, your body will recover.
#readytostart #arcadefire
no practical explanations for his method and no documentation of his sources
Deepak Chopra's books are interesting. Some of the points he makes stays with the reader.
I abandoned this book after about 100 pages, it's just too technical.
My husband loaned me this book as a possible alternative solution.Deepak Chopra may be commonly known as more of a "woo woo" spiritual author, but he is also a doctor and has years of experience as a practicing endocrinologist, so his foundations are in medical science.The book's primary focus is the mind-body connection in terms of regulating the immune system and our health.
There is a gap between the mind (thought) and the physical body (molecule & its affects) that could be the key to a whole new way of approaching medicine.I took Physics at UC Berkeley in the early 1990s as a part of my Biochemistry degree program, and the quantum section at the end of the semester left me confused and angry.
Our minds are such powerful tools and I believe influence our bodies...
there is a disconnection and connection between the two and the way we think about things, like illness, the more we will see it in our lives.
It's like the person who wakes up in the morning and stubs their toe, then spills their morning coffee, and the person starts focusing on the negative, and sure enough more bad things happen throughout the day.
Thoughts become things and we can use our minds to give a hand in our health.
Ayurdvedic medicine is very important to me, what we put into our bodies and how we reflect upon ourselves certainly plays a role in our health.
Inspirational, mind expanding and really interesting look at the boundary between the body and the mind. For anyone who has experienced the limitations of modern medicine, this is a great exploration of what where medicine finishes and the power of spirituality and the quantum universe picks up.
Ive never been disappointed with a book by Deepak Chopra and the worst thing I can say about this one is that it's way too short.
It is a very small percentage of people, who are strong enough to ignore the insensitivity of doctors and who can tap into their deepest core of the mind-body system to heal themselves.
“Quantum healing moves away from external, high technology methods toward the deepest core of the mind-body system.
This core is where healing begins.”In the mind-body system it translates to awareness.
Therefore, Deepak Chopra encourages a fusion of conventional and traditional medicines.“Everyone’s body knows how to heal a cut, yet apparently only a few people have bodies that know how to cure cancer.”The first part of the book is to the point.
Great guide to began to know the signals of your Mind and Body.
What surprised me is that the author, Deepak Chopra, is an M.D. Every time I had ever heard his name uttered, it was in connection with yoga and meditation, two words whose concepts I barely understood before reading this book.
The stories told of the ultra-colorful and ultra-sensational world they had occupied for those three days echoed every near-death-experience I had ever read about.
Possibly because I was reading these other books concurrently, my mind was open to the somewhat mystical 4th dimension discussion Dr. Chopra wanted to have in Quantum Healing.
Great read. I love Deepak. He gives great insight to our own personal healing power. We are so influenced by GPs and specialist and forget that we hold a lot of the healing capabilities from within. If you are suffering from any disease I highly suggest this book. Enjoy
He aims at shifting the mind of the reader, so they can believe that any chronic illness in their body can be healed.
He initiates this powerful belief in the reader's mind by explaining that any shift in one'e begin with elevating the mind.As we all know, the deadly disease - cancer passes onto any person through DNA passed from ancestors.
That is really creating hope in the reader's mind.He explains how his patients were suggested to use a Primordial meditation technique to heal their bodies.
Otherwise this book would surely create a shift in the reader's health of both mind and body.
As the title implies, Dr. Chopra explores the frontiers of the mind/body with the knowledge and limitations of today's medical world and the world of physics, as well as the ancient knowledge of Ayurveda.
He explores what is known and not known of people who have spontaneously healed from their terminal ailments.
Dr. Chopra states that much of his time is spent talking, trying to get people not to be so convinced by their disease.
In Ayurveda, this is the first and foremost step in healing.
"Meditation is so important because it leads the mind to a free zone that is not touched by disease.
This was my first experience reading a book of Deepak Chopra's and I have to say I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I appreciate that Chopra has a medical background in endocrinology as well as Ayruveda.
It made for a very interesting interplay between Eastern and Western approaches to medicine and attempting to find a balance between the two.
What I liked most was that there was never an attempt to discredit one field of medicine, but rather a focus on using both as a means of rounding each other out.
I gave this book 5 stars because of my curiosity to explore "Quantum Physics" and its relationship with human body. Deepak Chopra is a good writer but unfortunately he fails to convey his message to his audience. I think this book would have been well understood if 'Quantum Theory' had practical grounds. The mystery attached to neuropeptides remains shrouded. A deep research put forwarding consolidated facts and proofs is required. Otherwise, its pure hypothesis.
This book is totally mind expanding.  It goes into the quantum physics of healing.  Ultimately Deepak means that the more bliss we are able to experience on a daily basis, the more we increase our health and our chances for doing "the quantum leap" ie going from being ill into complete health.  It is the most inspirational and motivational book on why it is so important for us all to meditate on a regular basis.  Fascinating read.
Everybody needs to learn about Quantum Physics. It should be taught in high school along with chemistry and biology. Deepak Chopra is a wonderful teacher of our times. In simple language he explains how scientifically we are all One. He brings proves personal power with physical facts. Although his works would fall into the woo woo shelf, he would be the most down to earth author on the shelf.
One of the first and best books about the mind-body connection and how our health and well-being are inextricably tied to our thoughts, emotions and beliefs. These concepts are not just critical for those struggling with serious illness. They help all of us understand how to live healthy, happy, energetic lives.
I finally muscled my way through this after picking it up over 10 months ago. I loved the real life examples sprinkled through the heavy biology and metaphysics discussions. Overall I would have to say the book was way above my head, but a tiny part of me says it is simple and I was making it too complicated. At any rate, this book was well written and opened my eyes and mind to a new world.
This book should be a staple in everyone's library. Great discussion of the mind/body connection with enough scientific support to make even scoffers take note. You cannot read this book and not wonder what we are truly made of.
This was the first book that really showed me the power of perception. Until this I hadn't thought much about perception and how it can really change your life. Quantum Healing was definitely responsible for the start of my spiritual journey!
