https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/673657.Guardians_of_the_West
This is really a 3.5 star read.And it's mostly a lot of milling around before the quest actually gets started. As per usual, I have to ignore the implications of the casual (and mildish) misogyny. No matter the issues I have with this series - THIS is the series (and the Belgariad) that get my reading mojo going every time.
Like most sequels, The Mallorean is not as good as its predecessor. But, also like most sequels, it is nice to catch up with the familiar characters you fell in love with in the original. Although the story-line is similar to the first series (to the point that the protagonist points it out at one point in conversation), the adventure is still just as much fun. Anyone that loved the first series (The Belgariad) will find this series a worthwhile read.
The second issue again leads to humorous episodes and interesting dialogues as the Garion faces the stubbornness and aspirations of the his most powerful subjects and forced to find imaginative solutions to be able to bring things to a balance and still find time for his beloved so that she does not feel neglected.All that are good but I admit that from some point on all this humorous mood becomes a bit tedious, fortunately, however, things after the middle are getting more serious.
4.5 stars NON SPOILER TERRITORY !!AMAZING The Mallorean is the sequel to the Belgariad, David Eddings most popular fantasy series.It was so fun to be back in this world, to see all the characters we knew and loved, all grown up.
Thankyou David Eddings for letting me see some of my favourite characters again.SPOILER TERRITORY!!!A lot happened in this book, I mean a lot !!!!!
Spending the seasons tending to their crops and Durnik building fun little playgrounds for Errand to play on.
OMG Ce'Nedra was adorable, she still had her little spunk in her that made me absolutely fall in love with her during the Belgariad.
Disclaimer: THE BELGARIAD was the first adult fantasy series I read, in grade 5.
I loved it so much I read them probably every couple years until 2 of the books literally fell apart.
I wholeheartedly recommend them as an easy, fun intro-to-high-fantasy series.
For someone who loves these characters, this aspect is very upsetting.
Tons of realm-hopping--it was very jarring since travel used to be more spread out.
Tons of recycled lines, description, jokes, plot lines.
At this point, I've read enough to keep going, but there were many times I wanted to put down the book.
You'll have to wait until I'm at the end for a proper review.Just two things.Why is Garion so nice?Why do I want to slap Polgara?
I loved it. The way I loved the Belgariad. But there are 4 books to go so I'll comment when I'm done with the series.
These lands come to life in a vivid manner that is the perfect backdrop for this epic tale.
This novel is character intensive throughout, especially at the beginning as we get into the story proper.
The plot is still action and adventure intensive and we get to know the characters as they’re being themselves.
The characters in this novel are a lot of fun.
Her whininess kind of ruined the story for me at times.
I absolutely loved getting back with the characters from the Belgariad, yet this novel is set up so that readers can easily dive into this spin off from here.
2/10[Recensione dell'intera serie]Non è attivamente demente come tanti altri suoi colleghi, e questa è la fine dei suoi pregi.
Solito polpettone rimasticato fino alla nausea, straripante di dei e mostri puzzoni e palle di fuoco ed eroi maschi bianchi etero cis come neanche una partita di D&D, tenuto insieme da una prosa goffa e inforigurgitosa (pur se non mancano momenti ironici), zeppa di virgole tra soggetto e verbo.
This is the sequel series to The Belgariad so as long as you've read that, you'll know all the players involved and basically what to expect from the series since the story follows the same formula.Several years have passed since the Child of Light and Child of Dark met to decide the fate of the world.
Garion once again finds himself in the middle of the struggle between Light and Dark with the fate of the world, and his family, resting on his shoulders.This was a wonderful comfort reread.
I have read these books so many times that it is like returning to old friends, even all these years later.
In fact, I like this book/series more than the Sparhawk Universe, as far as things go.If someone says I should read The Belgarion series first, I would agree of it.
It’s important to do so in order to better understand all characters and story setting.
However, of course, I’m looking forward and trying to collect and read the former series, and in the same time, doing the same thing on Mallorean.
However, there is one main aspect which distinguishable between Guardians and Domes; description of battle.
In Guardian, it’s more vivid than Domes.
This is the follow on series from the Belgariad that returns to Garion, Polgara and friends finding them enjoying a quiet peace following the defeat of Torak. A peace that is not to last it seems as a new prophecy indicates that their battles are far from over. Once again Eddings characters jump off the page in a slow burning story that pushes each character to their limits. Apart from Aunt Pol of course, who is her usual stoic and practical self and Belgarath who is as calm and collected as ever. I can't wait to continue with this series.
The gang are back!
I Was so glad that there was more from the characters in the Belgariad series.
These series seems to carry on straight from the last book and again the child of dark and the child of light are destined to meet to decide the fate of the world.
You would think that this would be boring and just a re hash of the first series but you know what?
The world that Eddings creates and the characters that he fills it with are just amazing.
I find the books really easy to read and at the same time really engaging.
The second series of these books is the ‘unloved series’ it feels like to me.
The trouble with fate or god in a book is that it takes all the edge out of a story when there is a higher authority that can put all of it right.This is my second read through.I enjoyed the first book in the series more than I thought that I would.
There are tropes and plot devices that feel too familiar and I’m never a fan of every series being a world ending plot but despite all that this is a journey and am happy to be taking again many many years after I last took it.I actually rated this as 3 stars and the start of the review.
It was nice reading about the familiar characters of the first series, and it actually covers a couple of years.
(view spoiler)[What happens usually to people already old and sick when you cover a couple of years?
The story meandered (as I have come to expect of an Eddings book) and there were parts that I did not find terribly exciting.
The author is clearly setting up the readers for the rest of the story in this book and I am curious what will happen.
The most useless continuation of a great series - The Belgariad, which had come to a perfect end.
Really enjoyed it. There were a few laugh out loud moments.
As much as the books try to portray powerful women, ultimately, they are all frail, emotional beings that defer to men's decisions, and gush about dresses, babies, romance, while men do what needs to be done, and protect them, which alone is enough to ruin any chance of the books appealing to me - you can't have an immortal sorceress or a prophesized "Queen of the World" act like spoiled brats paralyzed to tears by news of a near-stranger's death who constantly nag the male protagonists to not drink alcohol, dress properly, and use courteous language, all while playing no role whatsoever in anything of any real importance.
The heroes are back for another grand adventure15 July 2012 Well when I was younger and had finished the Belgariad I was thrilled to see that Eddings had decided to continue the story of Garion and his friends in a brand new adventure. However as I look back now I sort of ask myself what is the point. The evil god Torak had been slain, Garion (now Belgarion as he is a sorcerer) has been crowned king of the west, and he has married Ce'nedra, imperial princess and destined wife. They have also had
The heroes are back for another grand adventure15 July 2012	Well when I was younger and had finished the Belgariad I was thrilled to see that Eddings had decided to continue the story of Garion and his friends in a brand new adventure.
Tolkien had been developing his Middle Earth since serving in the trenches of World War I, and pretty much all of these stories occur before the events of Lord of the Rings (while there is a lot of background material, the story ends with Lord of the Rings, and there is no 'gee, that was popular, let us create another series with a new and bigger evil').
I haven't read a fantasy fiction novel in over a year.
I'm glad I decided to give this a go on my Kindle Touch.I generally forget characters from books I've read.
Even if I've enjoyed the books, I forget characters soon unless it's an exception such as the Wheel of Time, Lord of the Rings or Harry Potter.
I'm surprised that I recognised the names in this book despite having read about them last only 6 years ago.
Yet, I'm glad I read this book.
I enjoyed the running around, I wish this book had more Beldin, he's the best of the lot.
The second set of books detailing the adventures of Garion are both a bit deeper and a bit darker than the first set.
The story we're presented with details the final confrontation between the child of light and the child of dark.
the friendships from the first series are carried over and grow deeper in these books.
The first books focused on Garion coming of age.
I especially enjoy the relationship between Garion and Zakath as their story unfolds through the remainder of the series.
As I have said before when it comes to books I re-read, these characters are old friends, and I always enjoy getting to visit with them again.
Guardians of the West by David Eddings takes place 3 years after the anti-climatic ending to the Belgariad series.
The characters are fleshed out here much more so than in the second half where the action picks up and the story seems to be heading towards a retelling of 'The Belgariad'.
The old prophecy that everyone had been waiting for and had lasted for a few millenniums before Garion completed it by defeating the god Torak seems to have only been step 1 in saving humanity!
The book also ends with the gang heading out for Nyissa which is exactly where the gang landed in book two of the Belgariad series!
I consumed the two five-book series in a few months, getting in trouble in school for reading when I should have been paying attention (I either didn't care or had already done the homework for whatever it was they were teaching while they were teaching how to do it).When complete, I read the whole series again in half the time.
I find Eddings is too indulgent in his characters which makes them seem fake.
They are more like a drawing of a character.
It is almost as if the characters themselves KNOW they are characters in a book and act in ways that say HEY READER!
Eddings is redundant with their behaviors and brow beats you with it over and over and over.
On top of that, most of the characters do not grow or change.
They are exactly who they were 3, 5 and 7 books ago.
Over all the books are fairly enjoyable.
Inicio de otra saga fantástica, secuela directa del gran éxito -también escrito por David Eddings- que supuso la pentalogía Crónicas de Belgarath; en ella encontramos a los mismos protagonistas tras unos cuantos años, un nuevo enemigo y los mismos tintes de aventuras de antaño.Sin embargo, Los guardianes del oeste adolece de ser un claro producto literario que intenta aprovechar el éxito de su predecesora, repitiendo la fórmula y por ende resultando ser una novela demasiado previsible y que no aporta nada al mundo creado por su autor.Tras leer este primer volumen dejé la saga inacabada.
After reading the Balgariad series, I was certainly excited to start reading this book! Unfortunately the fist half of this book stops it from being 5 stars. It takes a while to get going but once it does, well I just couldn't put the book down. The ending to this book was both heart breaking and exciting. If you loved reading the adventures of everyone together in the Balgariad as much as I did, then what is too come will certainly be very sad. However I am looking forward to partaking in the journey across the lands with Balgarion again.

With the publication of the Malloreon, we learned an important fact about David Eddings: He only has one story in him. The plot of the Malloreon is essentially identical to that of the Belgariad, and the books suffer from all the same weaknesses. That said, the characters are now old friends, and Eddings knows and writes them better. The likable characters were the chief charm of the first series, and if you enjoyed the first series for that, then the characters may be enough to get you through the second series. Otherwise, don't bother.
I really love Eddings' writing and these characters. However, this plot isn't particularly compelling, and it felt like the entire last half of the book was administrivia interspersed with really over-prepared battles. There wasn't the intrigue or danger of the first series. There were definitely some interesting moments, but for the most part I didn't enjoy this as much as I enjoyed the various installments of the Belgariad.
If you liked The Belgariad, you'll like the Mallorean, too because it's the same story!I was told at least Eddings said to his publisher "great! that world is done." And they said "No, it isn't. We want to buy a whole other series with this cast." And when Eddings said he didn't have another story, he was quoted a price and then re-wrote the Belgariad in a slightly different context. So, it's another skin for the same story, but I liked the first one! And so I liked the second one.
