https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3059.Twelve_Steps_and_Twelve_Traditions
Beseeched by one of my clients to read it, I've found that this is surely one of the great spiritual texts. I would advise anyone to read it.It does, however, contain some offensive throwbacks to the mid-twentieth century, when it was written, back when we were all the same, I guess. It's sexist -- all alcoholics are men, it seems, to the dismay of their wives. It's heterosexist (Oh, wait. That's not a throwback.).Anyway, like the Bible and presumably many sacred texts, you have to ignore the bad in order to receive the good.Just. Like. Drugs.Just kidding.
There is something very simple and clear about the twelve steps and twelve traditions--something that can impart the sort knowledge that is useful to a broad spectrum of folks.
I am fascinated by the way the steps and traditions are arranged.
This is an important read for anyone who has any sort of addiction, or knows anyone who suffers (or has suffered) in any way (major, minor...).
There's something about the spiritual piece that isn't shoved down one's throat, either...This is very important to me, as I get very uncomfortable when I feel like I'm being preached to or persuaded to believe in something that I'm not ready for.There's nothing exclusive about this one.
I never officially did all the Steps, and I'm pretty sure I've never even read the ENTIRE Big Book.) BUT, after I had been sober for 9 months on my own and went to my first meeting out of just a desperation to be around SOMEONE who might understand all the emotions I was going through, it meant so much to be able to share my sobriety and my struggles with other sober and struggling people.
In fact, I know now that AA is no better at getting and keeping people sober than just quitting cold-turkey or any other recovery program.
A great and must-read adjunct to the Big Book, Alcoholic Anonymous.
Whereas that was written very early in the life of the A.A. movement, when no one had more than a handful of years of experience of sober life, this was written with the benefit of much more insight and spiritual growth.
This is a very practical how-to guide to applying the principles of the 12 Steps in one's personal life, and to applying the 12 Traditions to the thinking and decisions of groups.
Both have proven themselves as effective models, and this is a good guide to everyday life for everyone, not just for recovering alcoholics.
Still read today!! Fabulous way of life!!!
What's interesting about this book is that it poses a manual to a general reader about how to center one's self.
To maintain humility and discipline (which appears to be the same thing, in different ways).
To a great degree the book presses urgency and the need for one to come to an understanding of reliance.
In order to be good we must be reminded of how bad we are; not so that we give up trying, but so that we always have a ways to go.
foundation of recovery. Love that its on my kindle....not a huge exciting read, but I certainly have used it recently. It is part of some basic literature that is the foundation for a 12 step recovery program for personal growth, and self accountability. Its primary purpose is to help the person in recovery stay sober, but the 12 steps are so much more than that. They will help you learn about yourself, and grow in ways you would never imagine. The best part is its free!! All that is required is you WANT it.
I don't drink or abuse substances but, as my 6th grade Sunday School class pointed out to me, I might be an alcoholic but as I don't drink, I can't know.
What wise children.This is a wonderful faith journey.
There is much to take from this book.I wonder if a person, such as I, worked the steps what it would produce.
Goodness knows, I have been self centered, cruel and problematic to myself and others.
Nor am I certain it would be beneficial but I wonder.This book gives wonderful insight to our friends who are suffering under addiction.
I've read this book in meetings and I read it to myself, just to go through it once sequentially in the beginning to help me to understand the recovery program of AA.
It takes 90 days for the brain to begin to reset back to the sober brain, and they have the saying, "90 meetings in 90 days." In Chasing The Scream they talk about the social aspect of recovery instead of the hijacked mind model.
In the comments of the Atlantic article, lots of people whined about negative experiences with a sponsor.
These essays where written 15 years after Bill Wilson wrote Alcoholics Anonymous. There's a tremndous amount of insight into human behavior her, truly a treasure trove for anyone interested in the human mind. the essays on the traditions are also an interesting proposal for an anarcistic governing system that actually has proven pretty successful. A system that treasures personal independence, and de-centralized local governing bodies.
This book is well worth keeping in your arsenal along with many other tools to help support your mental and emotional attitude when dealing with addiction or an addict, along with 'The Courage to Change' and the AA's 'Blue Print for Success'.
This book changed my life. I have been sober since 8-12-1985!I think working the 12 steps are essential to staying sober and living a great life.
I live by this book. I use the 11th step prayer every morning to this day. For anyone that has had to walk down the path of Alcohol recovery, this book is a lifesaver!
Great book. Explains the 12-step process of recovery, step by step. Includes information about the Traditions, or by-laws, of AA, which is how the organization has survived since 1935.
great book and good reminders of the purpose of each step and tradition. I know that i'll use this as a reference for the future.
It is a guide as to how to make the program work in the lives of those men and women who want to "practice these principles in all their affairs." The second half of the book dealing with the 12-Traditions shows the "12-Stepper" how to work within this "disorganized organization." It speaks of the individual's responsibility to his "home group" and other groups he or she might attend, but it also guides each group to see its responsibility to the 12-Step movement as a whole.The "12 & 12" as it is called by members of the movement can also serve as a guide for people who are not living a life of recovery from addictions.
I knew it had a profound effect on his life and so, missing him, I decided to read it myself to get to know him better after his death at 67 of cancer.
Without any hesitation, I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to improve their relationship with loved ones, with people in general, and to have a happier and healthier attitude about life.
Truly, you do not need to have an alcohol problem or even believe in a "higher power" to benefit from the ideas and the exercises outlined here: the famous twelve steps can be walked by anyone wanting to be a better and more loving citizen, friend, partner, self.
Profound insight into modern day miracleAlcoholics Anonymous is a modern day miracle in that it’s grown from it’s founding to a worldwide movement that’s helped thousands and thousands recover from their addiction to alcohol.This book explains the foundations of both the individual path to recovery as well as the institutional genius — forged through many difficult mistakes along the way — that enables AA to continue to help all who wish to stop drinking.
Helpful book and can help you sort out your life by following the tried and true principles (for recovering alcoholics) which guide you through living honestly, with integrity, using prayer and meditation to find peace and calm yourself, living unselfishly, letting go of resentments, and facing an uncertain future with dignity.
A helpful book overviewing and explaining all 12 steps and traditions of the 12 step programs. This book has a lot of inspiring insights which, if read alongside the Big Book, add to it and enhance the sobriety and recovery experience. Anyone who is part of a 12 step program, knows anyone who is, or is currently sponsoring may appreciate this short and unique book.
As a religious person, this is biased. Those suffering may close doors or fall blankly because of how heavily the program relies on the foundation of faith. The literature is inconclusive whether or not this works
excellent book for addictions even if you don't take harmful substsnces.
I originally read this book unsure of what it would amount to.
It was definitely a difficult read especially compared to the usual books I read.
I know it was difficult to wrap my head around and I have met addicts younger and/or less educated then myself.
Why make something so abstract and strenuous if some beginning the program are unable to uphold a job never the less decipher something this confusing.
Now towards the end I felt this book was written from a slightly sexist point of view.
I won't get into that though because the book was written early 1950's.
It is true that these books have solved a lot of peoples problems (I have lived in a treatment center and seen it's effect on people first hand) but there is a select few who it will never work out for.I may be a little on the masochistic side as I want to live with all my regrets and not "surrender them to God" as this book instructs.
So I am a little fucked up when it comes to following the instructions to this book word for word.
All that said though, this is the most effective method for dealing with alcoholism and addiction.
I find this book even more helpful than the Big Book in that it thoroughly, yet simply, explains both the 12 steps and the 12 traditions.
We are told that the steps help us get sober and the traditions, if understood and practiced, are what keep us sober and enable us to get along in society and in our interpersonal relationships.
One benefits from this book whether alcoholic or merely suffering from the human conditions of life.
Better yet, this book does not preach, moralize or judge.
These are suggestions and guidelines to a healthier, happier and more responsible life.
Great read for any alcoholic or anyone working a 12-step program! If you find out you're an alcoholic, you're picked-up for something alcohol related, court-ordered to go to AA-or someone's worried about your drinking-get one! It will explain the 12 suggested steps of the program to you.And take it with you to the step-meetings. They often read the chapter corresponding to the step discussed from the book. And if you think you might have a problem w/alcohol-but totally not sure-read Step One!
I read this to better understand friends and family who struggle with alcholism and addictions. What I found was a very straightforward way of living that is useful for me and I imagine for many others. It is a dated read with sexism and the like, however, given the intent of the message and the times in which it was written not to mention most studies show there are more male than female alcoholics, I did not find it offensive.I recommend this title.
What can be said about a book that literally saved my life? Really helps in the understanding of the cornerstones of the recovery process, the steps and traditions. Although there are those that minimize the importance of this particular book in the recovery process, I found it to be very helpful and used it extensively early in my sobriety.
While this has been--and I'm sure will continue to be--a priceless book for recovery, anyone going through rough times can benefit from the wisdom contained herein. My take is that you don't necessarily need to be religious for the "higher power" step(s), but at least *some* form of humility is recommended.
This discusses, in detail & order, the 12 steps that a recovering alcoholic/addict must take in order to get their act together. The reasoning behind the steps & traditions are explained. Well worth reading if you are part of any 12 step program. Anyone who isn't would probably be better off devoting their time to the Big Book.
