https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77623.Three_for_the_Chair
Three highly enjoyable Wolfe novellas. In one of them, Wolfe is summoned by the state department to cook trout for a visiting ambassador, in another a squad of private detectives (including Wolfe and Goodwin) are summoned to Albany for a wiretapping investigation (where all become suspects in the murder of a witness), and in the third the most important question is . . . what happened to the ice cream?
Can an obvious case of pneumonia be a murder?An interesting deduction made by Wolfe from seemingly a trivial matter which nonetheless did not fit with facts solved the mystery.
A diplomat from an unnamed country with which US is trying to establish good relationships express his desire to do some fishing and asked for Nero Wolfe to prepare his well-known Trout Montbarry.
Archie Goodwin tries fishing.
Nero Wolfe - and by extension Archie Goodwin - were unwittingly involved in one such activity.
In fact Archie Goodwin found himself with nothing do to most of the time.
My usual description of Nero Wolfe novellas applies here as well: fast read and entertaining.
"Immune to Murder" features that rare occasion when Nero Wolfe leaves his brownstone to go to the Adirondacks where he has been invited to prepared a special trout dinner for a visiting ambassador and other dignitaries.
And in "Too Many Detectives" Wolfe and Archie Goodwin are summoned to Albany to give testimony in a wiretapping case.
After one of their clients is found murdered, Wolfe and Goodwin are not only away from home, but arrested and placed in jail for a short time.
That indignation causes Wolfe to set an investigation in motion that leads to the murderer's arrest.
Three more first-rate Nero Wolfe stories. I love the orderliness of these books. As in "The Divine Comedy", once the pattern is established (the brownstone townhouse, the morning and evening hours with the orchids, the dislike of leaving home, the dichotomy of Archie as the man-of-action and Wolfe as the man-of-thought), much of the interest in each book is the deviation from the pattern. Two of the stories in this book have Wolfe leaving home. In one of them, Wolfe does the cooking, instead of Fritz. As always, great entertainment.
Two good stories bookending a real dud.
An audio version of three classic Nero Wolfe novellas read by Michael Pritchard.
If you're a fan of Nero and Archie, these won't disappoint, though they have less action than most mysteries.
Still, the usual series characters are solid, and the puzzles interesting enough to hold the reader's attention.Mr. Pitchaird's voices for Archie Goodwin and, in particular, for Nero Wolfe are spot on.
The only problem I had was in the 3rd story--one of the officials had a voice enough like Wolfe's that when they were in the same scene, it was difficult to tell who was speaking.Highly recommended for readers who like classic detective stories.
Three very solid short stories from Rex Stout. I read a number of these as a kid and I'm happy to say they still hold up many years later. Wolfe is a bit more suave than I remembered, but Archie is still just as ready to chase a skirt as a bad guy.Great for a quick read or to relax with over a rainy weekend.Read it!
I was amused at the insistence on the phrase "hot water bags" to describe what most people would call a "hot water bottle"--indicative of both Stout and Wolfe's obsession with words.
Anyone who's read more than two Wolfe novels knows he equates fresh air with certain death.
His relationship with Wolfe has never really come into question, but since the second novel The League of Frightened Men, I have wondered at times about this all-male household, given Archie's emotional reactions to certain events.
(I direct the interested reader to my review of that book.)Good enough to pass the time while I did dull things like ironing and mopping.
Liian monta etsivää sisältää kolme novellia vuosilta 1955 ja 1956: Ikkuna kuolemaan, Taimenet todistavat ja nimikkonovellin Liian monta etsivää.
Taimenet todistavat on julkaistu myös teoksessa 6 parasta nimellä Syytön syyllinen.Ikkuna kuolemaan ***Ikkuna kuolemaan on murhamysteeti, johon liitty avoin ikkuna ja keuhkokuume.Taimenet todistavat **Taimenet todistavat on diplomaattipiireihin sijoittuvat kalastusaiheinen Nero Wolfe -novelli.
Nero Wolfe on melko äksyllä tuulella, mikä saattaa olla hänelle melko tyypillistäkin, eikä edes joen varrella tapahtunut murha oikein saa hänen sisäistä salapoliisiaan syttymään.
Novellissa on liian paljon henkilöitä, eikä loppuratkaisukaan ole kovin kummoinen.Liian monta etsivää ***Liian monta etsivää on hauska novelli, jossa Nero Wolfe poistuu tapojensa vastaisesti ja matkustaa Albanyyn ja päätyy murhasta epäillyksi.
not as good as a full length novel, but I'll take Archie in short story form any day. :)
I read this book because I have heard so many times about the writer Rex Stout and his iconic character, Nero Wolfe, the great detective. He may be a great detective, but I found I really disliked the character. I've heard him compared to Perry Mason (or Ironsides) but I found little to like about his personality or methods. I got tired of forcing myself to read on to find some nugget that would make it worth finishing the book.
I think we all know what "chair" we're talking about here. C'mon, it's Archie Goodwin telling us about Nero Wolfe in three short novellas that have all the fun back-and-forth dialogues we're expecting and all the convoluted plots that only Wolfe could decipher. And - in one of them - Wolfe is out of the house and cooking, not sleuthing, as his reason for being involved! Enjoy, enjoy.
Another installment in my effort to finally finish reading the rest of the Nero Wolfe stories. This one had a few exceptions to the house rules. Working with women. Leaving the house. Wolfe in jail. Still plenty of fun even after reading so many of them. I am still excited about the rest off them.
This is one of my favourites of the short story collections. They are usually not as good as the full length novels, but in this one, Wolfe's gourmand tendencies and ability to distinguish subtleties of flavour is an actual PLOT POINT, which makes me very happy.
The bad thing with mystery short stories is that the author doesn't have enough time to insert red herrings so there are too few candidates for the reader to guess between.
Excellent Nero Wolfe trilogy. Each story had some interesting personalities. Two of the stories had Nero Wolfe actually leaving his Brownstone! Enjoy.
Loved it!
Three classic short stories in which Nero Wolfe and his trusted sidekick Archie solve a murder. Very entertaining if you are a fan of Nero and Archie
While the book was not my planned next Nero Wolfe read, I decided to grab it cheap and enjoy the book.There are three stories in this book and each should be reviewed in its own right.A Window for Death:A man who left his family under a cloud of suspicion and then made a fortune in mining, apparently dies of natural causes after returning home.
However, in the context of a Nero Wolfe reading binge, the story represents a nice change of pace.Rating: Very SatisfactoryToo Many DetectivesThanks to Archie's interest in learning about wiretapping, Wolfe agrees to help a man tap his own phone.
Perchè se infatti in testa alla sua personale >lista nera Nero Wolfe ha, come ho detto sopra, il fatto di essere costretto ad andare in trasferta, subito a ruota vi è l'arrivo di un cliente non annunciato.Nella prima di queste storie, quella che da il titolo all'intero trittico, ossia L'invulnerabile Nero Wolfe e il suo fedele collaboratore Archie Goodwin devono recarsi in una località sui monti Adirondack e tutto per compiacere "i capricci di un ambasciatore" il quale vuole gustare delle trote, trote pescate da lui stesso, cucinate alla maniera di Nero Wolfe che si rivela essere non solo un genio investigativo ed un conoscitore, o meglio cultore, di orchidea ma anche uno dei dieci cuochi migliori al Mondo.
Both of these are obvious prequels and better versions of the gimmicky dry ice premise in this story.
Nothing is ever in doubt, there is a poor attempt at narrative symmetry to the two deaths described that is so overplayed that it blows the gaff, and in general the boredom that Stout felt writing this novella comes across loud and clear.Immune to Murder is another gimmick story, another where the inspiration for the story is so clear from the very beginning (and from the title) that there is no actual mystery.
The said reunion was very short-lived as he dies from pneumonia. The late guy stroke it rich, but now his siblings see possible complications with their inheritance and one of them even suspects foul play in his brother's death. Nero Wolfe is the guy they ended up consulting. Can an obvious case of pneumonia be a murder?
The adventure starts off in a frustrating manner as well - not Stout's fault, though, it's the fault of the client this time - the client wanting Wolfe to investigate his brother's mysterious death does not mention the fact a parent died in the same way only a few years before!
Though it shouldn't, sometimes a Wolfe adventure is affected by the quality of the client as much as by the unusual nature of the mystery itself.The second story is well-known to fans of the Chaykin/Hutton series, as it was the last episode of the series, and because of that it's a bit difficult to enjoy it because of the concomitant sorrow - total nonsense to the rest of you, I'm sure.
Another trio of Wolfe stories. There are no bad Wolfe mysteries, but I do think the first and third were better than the middle one.Did like how each story had a different setting or found some little twist to the usual formula.As always a fun, satisfying read.Would have loved it if Stout took the other detectives that show up in the third story and gave each of them their own stories.
Three Nero Wolfe Mysteries 1) A Window For Death - A miner long thought dead returns and stirs up too much trouble for his family.
After the VIP fishing contest, when Archie seizes the chance to go out to try his luck with the trout, he finds one of the big men snagged under the water, dead.
Nero Wolfe has been duped!
Trouble is that when they are all called to Albany be investigated by the New York Secretary of State about these wiretapping capers and to confront the man who asked each of them to do jobs for him.
I started reading Rex Stout’s books back in 1997 when I got a couple of the books as Christmas gifts.
It is one of the few books Rex has written that has not one story but three short cases that Nero Wolfe has worked.
The stories in general are the best Stout as an author has ever done.
I see how well of an author Stout is after I read this book.
But hey, I love Nero as a detective and Rex for bringing me into that world.
It's been a long time since I pickd up a Nero Wolfe book, but time has not diminished the eloquent and intellectually stimulating tenor of this series by Rex Stout.Nero Wolfe, for those not in the know, is a big, fat, private detective who resides in a brownstone in New York City, along with his factotum, Archie Goodwin; his horticulturist, Theodore Hortsmann; and his chef, Fritz Brenner.Wolfe is a genius, and the first one to let you know so.
Wolfe interviews the doctor, the nurse, the three remaining siblings as well as one spouse and manages to deduce the killer Immune to MurderWolfe has been hired to cook trout for a diplomat but while at the man's rustic cottage, there's a murder.
The victim was not particularly well-liked so there's no end of suspects, though Archie, who has discovered the body, is highest on the list.Too Many DetectivesThe Wolfe Detective Agency is implicated in a murder when it comes to light that one of their clients wasn't who he said he was and had convinced Archie to place an illegal wiretap.
In IMMUNE TO MURDER, Wolfe is forced out of his brownstone at West 35th Street at the request of the State Department in order to satisfy the whim of a foreign ambassador that Wolfe cook his own special recipe for brook trout.
[Although despite the title of the collection, this particular murderer is NOT destined for the electric chair.]In the aptly-named TOO MANY DETECTIVES, Wolfe is once again forced out of his brownstone, this time to testify for a panel of the state government in Albany about illegal wiretapping.
And so at a gathering of seven private detectives in Albany, another murder occurs.
more interesting by far than the three rather dull stories in this collection is the author bio of rex stout printed on the first page, pieces of which i will quote verbatim here:--"born .
the sixth of nine children of John and Lucetta Todhunter Stout, both Quakers"--"educated in a country school, but by the age of nine he was recognized throughout the state as a prodigy in arithmetic"--"spent [two years] as a warrant officer on board President Theodore Roosevelt's yacht"--"worked as a sightseeing guide and an itinerant bookkeeper"--"devised and implemented a school banking system that was installed in four hundred cities and towns throughout the country"--"with the proceeds from his banking scheme, left for Paris to write serious fiction"--"waged a personal campaign against Nazism"--"turned his attention [after the war] to mobilizing public opinion against the wartime use of thermonuclear devices" may be quite possible that the vogue of listing one's quirky/eclectic work background in an author bio started, in fact, with good ol' mr.
