https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/849939.Magick_in_Theory_and_Practice
worshipping the devil shouldndt require this much reading.
I read this book in highschool and I swear a fog hung in my brain that didn't left for months. Beware reading this book, it does something to one's mind that I cannot explain.
Okay...this is an AMAZING book, but requires a cavaeat...as does everything when Crowley is involved. Be aware that he has laid karmic traps throughout for those who do not have sufficient ethics and discipline over their lower natures. Personally, I find the trap laying ethically problematic...but Crowley was an accomplished occultist and it nice to read someone who really understands the theory behind what is going on.
Napravi mi sina.
An indispensable and pivotal work.
At the time I read this was dabbling in dark magic.
If Crowley were alive today he'd be marketing his wacky wares on an informercial selling tarot cards, sacrificial doves, and a layman's guide to the major and minor demons.
"Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the law!" If Crowley weren't the secret poster boy for stringy acne-riddled Goth boys looking to score the book would just fade into an amusing chapter of mankind's exploration into resurrected religious beliefs that piss off the neighbors.
I was just looking in yet another dark corner of the world and found another belief system that was about humans trying to control their universe.
This was one of the first books on Magick I ever read, I had to persevere with it at first as I read it as a teenager, but I really loved reading it. It opened up a lot of new lines of thought in my mind and I think everyone needs a copy.
Far more important in my youth than today, but I must still admit to a certain fondness for the Old Beast.
that make this a great book, starting with his outline in the beginning of the book, defining magic, its theory and the postulates and theorems thereof.
But what really makes this book great is the seriousness with which Crowley approaches his subject; he makes the magic real.
If you are a young magician and still hounded with the doubts instilled in you about magic from a society that uses the word "science" to denounce magic (like some people use crosses to ward off vampires) without even understanding the methodology that science truly is, this book is the cure.
Excellently written but full of traps for the unwary. Under no circumstances attempt to construct a consistent magickal practice from this book
Great book, but like all of Crowley, Victorian AF. (He'd hate that description.)Great info, the only downside is the writing style. Otherwise, a great read. Can probably get the same info written more clearly, but not likely in one place.
I mean... If you need a review you probably shouldn't buy it
your not letting me read it
top notch book really works
He sets down a list of precepts that by their own definition destroy man's ability to understand the world around him, stating explicitly that the concept of reason has no place in the world and is an illusion.
What I didn't get was the concept of "magical thinking" which insulated Crowley from understanding the fundamental flaws in his perceptions, the system of belief that says wishing makes it so (except for when it doesn't) so keep wishing because then things will change (or they won't).
If only the audience (reader) was suitably amused with a mummified rabbit being removed from a musty turban.There are practices, rituals, operations, observances, and acts in full elaboration like the dead petals of a colorless rose pressed between the pages of an infrequently opened book.This book by Crowley promises much, and yet of Crowley's vast written output, few titles are found outside of the mausoleum, and fewer yet offer any biographical scope of the author.
As thus left with rating it as a read, it barely rises to 2 starsPaul Christian's The History and Practice of Magic is vastly better in its coverage.
A huge influence on the young man I was...
and yes, I still open it up from time to time.
For many this inexpensive Dover edition is our first exposure to Crowley.
You can usually find it at any Chapters or Black Bond Books.By his own admission Crowley left nasty little ethical/spiritual traps throughout his works.
So if you are a selfish asshole who is out for power and control...
I have seen first hand what the deliberate abuse of Crowley's teachings can do to a man.I still see him from time to time around my town; the man who abused Crowley's teachings.
Regardless of whether you believe in Aleister Crowley as a practitioner of real Magick, his authoritative treatise on the subject is worth a read for anyone interested in the Occult. Crowley is credited with having actually defined magic as it is understood in today's circles. His interpretations of the symbolism and practice of magic are insightful regardless of whether they hold any truly practical application. This work explores ritual symbolism and the interconnectedness of all things.
Although this book contains some advanced rituals and it can omit necessary parts of some rituals, it also contains some pretty good basic ones and quite a bit of theory. MTP is generally considered one of the most important modern books about Magick. I particularly recommend Libers O and E to those seeking to begin their career in ritual magick. 93!
It is worth the price of admission for the introduction alone. Crowley could have done a much better job organizing this work though. Still it is a storehouse of information, and when you look at how forthright some other gurus have been *cough* Gurdjieff *cough* things almost seem straightforward. I have an original subscribers edition, big and beautiful in red cloth boards.
This book was stupid. Don't waste your time. I only put it on my list because I'm trying to beat my friend Natalie in a book listing game...so far, she's winning, hence the stretch. Soon, I'll go back to the books of my childhood.
Reading on Kindle Touch.
The author was mad and possibly a genius or at least very clever.
don't know how to rate this yet ....
Changed my life completly
Good but there exists a better edition
Excellent Work or Metaphysical Art, widely accepted or not, Mr. Crowley was a true "realist" of his time.
It was a dark period in my life I'm not proud but it was there.
Crowley's first works I ever read.
It was a glimpse into the mind and the works of the Beast 666 himself. He shares his experiences and spells that he performed during Golden Dawn era with everyone.
