https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1237513.My_First_Counting_Book
Charming verses paired with lovely animal illustrations by Garth Williams make this an appealing and sweet counting book.
This beautiful counting book is illustrated by Garth Williams who is probably best known for his work on Charlotte's Web and the Little House Series. He's illustrated lots of picture books too and I look forward to exploring more of them. I love the board book format of this classic Little Golden book and the combination of animals, rhymes, and counting is a big winner in our house right now.
I think this is good read for toddlers and maybe for some older kids as well. There are familiar animals and objects in the book, snd there are some rhyming words and repetition and of course there is some counting. The illustrations are somewhat colorful and interesting however I don't believe this book will keep a childs attention for too long.
Unlike some later counting books this one wasn't as simple and clear as I have seen them now with just a number and possibly whatever the subject is that is being counted for it included the number, a picture that corresponded with a well-known animal and a rhyme that accompanied it.
It further goes on to the end where two pages are combined where you can see the number, the spelling and of course whatever had been counted in the book, which allows young readers to summarize what they have just learned.
If you have a young child whose attention can be held and likes animals then this may be one of those counting books to have around.
Baby animals, sweet verses, and Garth Williams as illustrator. What could be better?
I would suggest this book for 2-4 year olds. It has familiar object and repetition but the text is a little more complex than a 0-2 year old should read. It has brighter colors and the illustrations are appropriate for the age level.
This book was okay as a start for kids to learn to count, but that it was a bit dark because on the 8 page it was implying that the fish would die if they didn't swim past the hook. Although that is true it is a bit dark and might scar your kids.
ATOS 2.0
This counting book is also a rhyming book, but the rhymes did not have very good cadence. The reader is meant to count different animals and vegetation.
Little Golden Books – My First Counting Book Nice to return to these first reads of mine.
Very sweet counting book.
Good easy counting book! Easy enough to read with 1st grader or second, liked the rhyming of the words and flow. The pictures are very pretty!
GB 26 (2)
Jude book #239: Learnin' The Jude to count to ten.
What I have noticed with looking for finding picture books, is that they are a much easier read, and include less words and more pictures.
It is a book that counts from 1-10 and uses animals to help do so.
For someone who just learning to count and reading, this book would work perfectly.
It uses animals that all children are familiar with: lambs, puppies, kittens, fish, horses, ducks, eggs, chicks, squirrels, etc.
The book has both pictures that use just one page and pictures that use the whole spread, depending on the amount of things that are being counted.
Isn't there a boy or girl Who wants to play with me?" Thus begins my Susanna's favorite counting book, which also happens to be a Little Golden Book, first published in 1956.
He would like me." This book features sweet, cuddly animal drawings by Garth Williams (the illustrator of Charlotte's Web, The Little House on the Prairie series, and many, many more books.) Each number features a little rhyming poem by Lilian Moore."Bunny finds five cabbages-One, two, three, four, five-Near the garden wall.
Bunny sniffs five cabbages, And Bunny wants them all."This book has been a favorite of each of my three girls, so loved and read that we are on our third copy.
My mom got this and Bunnies' ABC for my daughter for Easter.There are cute pictures and rhymes to go along with each number, from one to ten.
There was a lot more substance to this book than Bunnies' ABC, which was essentially just the alphabet and animal names.
Each number had its own sort of story to go with it, so that the book wasn't just numbers.My First Counting Book was a fun, easy read - or you know.
It would have been if I wasn't reading it out loud while fighting a squirming baby.Ellie didn't try to eat this one though, so I assume that Bunnies' ABC is the better tasting of the two.
I think this book was originally recommended to me through the Animal Play curriculum.
Love that!
This one was a different formatting from the others where it was a vertical image rather than the horizontal and it did not look quite as good that way, but it was still full readable on the Kindle Fire.
This book is full of beautiful images and some words that kids might not get in the normal books we'd find today.
I love the classic nature and plan to try to get the book in person.
After reading so many books written in choppy rhyme, this book was a delight to read out loud. The rhyming schemes do not match from number to number, but within each "verse" the rhyming scheme and meter work beautifully. It was reminiscent of reading nursery rhymes. Garth Williams illustrated this book. Garth Williams. the illustrator of Little House on the Prairie book and of Charlotte's Web, illustrated this book. Yeah, that Garth Williams.
This is a interesting book for children to get their attention to read books and practice counting because has pictures of many animals and the habitat of different animals.Learning experience: Practice counting with children with different pictures of animals or give children magazines and instruct them to cut animals from the magazines and count how many they have in total
I adore this Little Golden Book. It brings back childhood memories. We came to have this book as a gift to my children. My son loves it, especially because it has kittens on the cover. This book features many animals and teaches numbers and counting but I can easily see how it can be used to teach animals as well! The illustrations are beautiful.
An enjoyable read.This would make a nice addition to anyone's personal library.
Very good first counting book. I thought it was fun to read when I was a child and it taught me a lot. Good book for kids to learn how to count.
This is a wonderful Golden Book for teaching children how to count and read.
My daughter enjoyed this from ages two to three and a half, and it helped her to practice her numbers and counting.
This book is beautifully illustrated, and tells a nice story. I don't really like Golden Books, but this one is cute.
I just love the illustrations. It is just an adorable book.
This sweet little read is the "full package" in kids books... adorable, realistic animal pictures; teachers numbers as well as language with its clever rhyming text.
I learned how to count reading this book.
My First Counting Book by Lilian Moore (1957)
