https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40779082-the-guns-of-august
On the night of the 13th of August 1961 the Government of East Germany began to build the Wall that divided Berlin isolating its Western part within the Communist Eastern block.In 1962, Barbara Tuchman published her Guns of August and the following year it was awarded the Pulitzer Prize.As many years separate Tuchman’s book from the events she discusses as years separate us from the time its publication: about half a century.Those two lots of five decades each may explain two different reactions.
The Guns of August covers the first month of World War I as fighting erupts on both the Western and Eastern Fronts.
Once Great Britain made it clear she would not sit on the sidelines, German troops began crossing the border into Belgium, beginning what Moltke called “the struggle that will decide the course of history for the next hundred years.” (Moltke, otherwise a failure, certainly pegged this right).
Her handling of the escape of the German battle cruiser Goeben (an incident Tuchman initially wanted to devote an entire book to) is masterful, and shows how individual decisions can greatly affect the outcome grand events.
“The Guns of August” is the first book I read about the Great War or, as I knew it, World War One.
My family, then containing of my parents, my biological maternal grandmother, and my adoptive maternal grandmother (my biological grand-aunt), talked very little about WWI, probably because WWII was raging, food as well as all other supplies were scarce, and we were surrounded by Nazis, some of them murderous SS criminals.
So I read “The Guns of August”.This book had me in shock.
How can anyone plan and start a war with so little reason and with total disregard for human lives?
Well, how d'you do, Private Willie McBride, First Class - do you mind if I sit down down here by your graveside?
But Private Willie McBride, it could have been slow and obscene.
The sun's shining down on these green fields of France.
The warm wind blows gently, and look, the red poppies are dancing just like they're supposed to.
But you know I can't help but wonder now, Private Willie McBride, First Class - do all those who lie here know why they died?
Thanks for your time.(with many apologies to Eric Bogle and his great song The Green Fields of France)
This is an impressive work on the buildup to World War I and the first month of fighting.
Frequently I had to hit rewind to try and catch up with the narrative.Overall, I enjoyed learning more about the first world war, and especially the events that led up to it.
He noticed that it is generally not a good idea to charge against people with machine guns.
And when their armies were beaten back by superior fire power, larger armies and crippled by there being no supplies these same generals put it all down to their soldiers’ lack of courage or lack of will.All I knew about the start of the war before reading this book was that some Prince got killed in the Balkans, Austria and Germany had a pact that meant if one was attacked the other would have to fight with them – Russia, France and England were in much the same situation.
Brilliant. There's no other word for it.
I believe that I will focus on reaction for my review---reaction 100 years after the fact to the apparent ease with which the European world, and then much more, slid into an horrific spilling of blood, the ease with which several leaders gave orders which condemned millions of people to death; cities, towns, even small nations to near or total destruction.The pressure for this war had been building for years from what I have read.
(Of course I also read Chevalier's excellent Fear: A Novel of World War I which brought the general down to the specific and perhaps tired me more.) But in the end perhaps Tuchman achieved her purpose in me.
There's something to be said for the thesis that the two world wars should be understood as one extended conflict with a brief breather in the middle.
There's relatively little here about nationalism and imperialism, domestic politics or popular opinion of the war.
Practically all we get on the assassination of Franz Ferdinand is Bismarck's prescient quip that the Great War would be kicked off by "some damn foolish thing in the Balkans".As an easy introduction for someone who knows little about the first world war, it's excellent.
I have always been very interested in World War II and have read quite a few books on the subject.
However, until reading THIS book I had never endeavored to learn anything more than the basics of World War I.
With the reading of this incredible book, I have taken a tremendous step towards correcting that deficit.
Focusing on the first 30 days of World War I (hence the title), this beautifully written book addresses in great detail the causes for the conflict, the preparations made by the future combatants and the incredible chain of events that led to the war.
I let go at around page 280 (out of 440 in my edition), when I started realizing that every paragraph is so chunked up with minute details about this general moving these troops out of this place and into this wing on this day because of these emotions and this miscommunication and this people's overconfidence that it just all became so trivial and so unbelievably lifeless--which in a weird way completely contradicts all of the GR reviews I've read about how this book brings life to the first month of the war.
I actually really liked the first part of the book, and liked the second part.
This is a superb read.
It is a tightly packed book, full of detail about arcane goings on in the corridors of power and on the battlefield.
Millions died, three empires were toppled, the first communist state born, resentments raised, and an Austrian corporal found his metier and his tribeThe guns of August details the first month of the war, where the failure by a close margin of the schleiffen plan and the annihilation of the Russian thrust into Prussia meant that a war which would be over by Christmas somehow became a four year attritional slog.
What you need most of all is a good memory, a good knowledge of history and geographic knowledge before you even pick up the book.
It is important to know that this book is focused primarily on the military battles of the first month of the war.
I appreciate knowing what has happened to the people living around me here in Belgium; I understand them better.
I understand why they so quickly capitulated in the Second World War. Today there is so much squabbling going on between the Flemish and the French people of Belgium.
Just a bunch of nations at the ready, with their war plans, their generals, and their armies.I was expecting this to be a lighter read.
Tuchman is a superb writer, writing in an elegant, sometimes effervescent way that probably few historians today could match: "Doubting Lanrezac's mood, Joffre arrived early in the morning at Laon, now Lanrezac's headquarters, to lend him sangfroid out of his own bottomless supply." She has a charming, dry wit: "Their new Secretary for War was a barrister with a passion for German philosophy, Richard Haldane, who, when asked by the soldiers in Council what kind of army he had in mind, replied, "A Hegelian army." "The conversation then fell off," he recorded." Yet the book is also extremely dense, thoroughly and magnificently researched.
The Guns of August which I read in September“Nothing so comforts the military mind as the maxim of a great but dead general.” ― Barbara W.
Tuchman, The Guns of AugustWhat an amazing piece of historical writing.
Tuchman shows how August, 2014 was impacted by two failed plans (Plan 17 & the Schlieffen Plan), Generals and politicos who were either overly optimistic at the wrong time or overly pessimistic at the wrong time.
Chapter after chapter would absolutely devastate me as I read.
I am very glad I wasn't in the French (or Belgian or German or Russian) military in August of 1914.
"Dead battles, like dead generals, hold the military mind in their dead grip, and Germans no less than other peoples prepare for the last war."-  Barbara Tuchman, The Guns of August. In her Pulitzer-Prize winning classic The Guns of August, the story of the first month of World War I, Barbara Tuchman argues convincingly that August 1914 was when the Gilded Age died and the modern era really began. The book opens with a famous depiction of Edward VII’s funeral in 1910, attended by all the kings a
"Dead battles, like dead generals, hold the military mind in their dead grip, and Germans no less than other peoples prepare for the last war."-	 Barbara Tuchman, The Guns of August.
In her Pulitzer-Prize winning classic The Guns of August, the story of the first month of World War I, Barbara Tuchman argues convincingly that August 1914 was when the Gilded Age died and the modern era really began.
But throughout the book, there is a sense that the world changed forever in August 1914.
I went into this book with very high expectations, as The Guns of August has the reputation of a nonfiction classic.
I know it’s ridiculous to be anxious about a war one knows the outcome of, but her writing is that good.Tuchman is masterful at summarizing the lead-up, and following each of the belligerents and key neutrals through the early weeks of mobilization and fighting.
She manages to paint quick, memorable portraits of the generals and politicians, so that you understand how each of their decisions followed from both situation and temperament.
In the 19th Century Henry David Thoreau eloquently stated: “I learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.” In the 20th Century, Barbara W.
William II the German Kaiser had a thirst for war and the world traveler focused his sights on Paris, but in his life he would never set foot in the notorious French capital.
The German forward march through Belgium, a stationary pawn, set the tone with rampage looting and the purposeful killing of many innocent citizens.
This book came highly recommended and I can now see why.
Tuchman really brings the war to life, which is quite a harrowing experience, I have to say.
This book would be a great starting point for any serious would-be-scholar of the First World War and has just the right general overview to detail ratio for the casual reader like myself.It made me realise how we'd only studied the war from the British perspective at school (many, many, many years ago) and it was very interesting to see the French and German side of things.
Maybe it is this particular audiobook version, but I'm really not feeling the love for this book.With The Guns of August, Tuchman wrote this incredibly detailed account of the first month of WWI - and the detail is staggering, so much so that it might even be somewhat overwhelming and that somehow this detail detracts a little from what otherwise looks like a one-sided portrayal.
There is a lot of national stereotyping - but maybe this is just exaggerated by the narration of this particular audiobook version which aims to read different characters in actual accents.
This book is about the First World War, its causes, the conduct of it, and the results.
It is also fascinating to burrow into the causes and the intrigue involved.
Ms. Tuchman, Pulitzer Prize winner, as always, does exhaustive research before tackling a book, totally familiarizes herself with the facts and comments, give a deep analysis of the events, the how and why and when, and who, describes in vivid detail the events and their consequences, shows great insight about the facts, and, perhaps best of all, writes in a manner that makes history as exciting as an adventure story.
We delve into the personalities that brought about the war, and their manner of prosecuting it.
She is such a wonderful writer, and has so much knowledge, that she brings life, humor, and human interest to this long and sad saga of the old world order disappearing inexorably in a sucking quagmire of arrogance, stupidity,and criminally mistaken military decisions.
This is a fascinating look at a widely diverse group of men who changed the history of the world and led us to the international messiness of today.Most highly recommended to anyone who is interested in history or the military.
So my perfect score comes out effortlessly.Ένα ιστορικό βιβλίο που θεωρείται από τα κλασικά του είδους και απαραίτητο ανάγνωσμα για αυτούς τους μη ειδικούς που θέλουν να μάθουν για την έναρξη του πρώτου Παγκοσμίου Πολέμου.
Βέβαια έχω και κάποιες ενστάσεις, η συγγραφέας Μου φαίνεται ότι χρησιμοποιεί πολύ τη δική της κρίση για κάποιους από τους πρωταγωνιστές, την ώρα που νομίζω ότι δεν ασχολήθηκε όσο έπρεπε με την Αυστροουγγαρία που ουσιαστικά ξεκίνησε τον πόλεμο, αυτές τις λεπτομέρειες, όμως, μπορώ να τις προσπεράσω μπροστά στη γενικότερη αξία του βιβλίου.
5 stars, because I love Tuchman’s writing style - she sums up historical figures brilliantly, encapsulating their strengths, flaws and quirks in pithy paragraphs, capturing their essence and historical importance with a novelist’s eye.So much has been written in the last several years for the 100-year anniversary of WWI, but Tuchman’s exhaustive work of the outbreak and first month of fighting won the Pulitzer Prize and is still considered a classic.
I had read Proud Tower many years ago, always meant to read this book, and still must get to Zimmermann Telegram, the last of her WWI history books.
This was the first non-fiction history book that read so much like a good novel that I screamed through it almost without pausing for breath.
I knew bits and pieces about World War I before this...
That small piece of trivia about this war pretty much sums it up.
carnage all around, stupidity, technology rolling over the past like so many broken eggs...
or something like that.
This book is a perfect window into the character of various European nations...
but not a lot (if you know what I mean).Best history lesson ever.
Should be required reading.
That certainly gives solace to other thoughtful and slow writers.I was taken aback and learned of the inaction and reserve of the British Army at this extremely critical time, which by the way continued long into the conflict, because I had observed “The Last Post” at the Menin Gate Memorial in Ypres, (pronounced eepers) Belgium in 1993.
The city of Ypres wished to express their gratitude to the British Commonwealth soldiers who died for Belgium freedom and hence conduct “The Last Post” – a solemn bugle call similar to our “Taps” – every day at 8 pm at the Menin Gate.
"The Guns of August" gives an account of the events leading up to the outbreak of World War I, and the first month of battles in August 1914.
The author is an interesting storyteller, looking at many of the politicians and generals with a bit of humor and frustration.The book concentrates on the Western Front as the German troops moved into Belgium and northeastern France.
The book ends dramatically with an account of the first Battle of the Marne in early September 1914 with taxi cabs of soldiers speeding from Paris to the Front.
The Guns of August is the best researched book I’ve ever read so far with such poised and skillful narrative style.
It amazed me when I read the inanity and misjudgment by commanders in chief, field marshalls, generals and politicians, causing all the gratuitous calamities.
Their thoughts, actions and interactions – which had got to be compiled meticulously and painstakingly from various memoirs and other sources – are making me feel as if I was reading a novel, of course without all the dramatization.
The Guns of August truly deserves all the praises as a true military classic.
Maybe it's the same where you work.The Guns of August explains how the First World War came to be as well as its first month, up to the Battle of the Marne.
But Tuchman doesn't simply deliver facts—she gives razor-sharp insights into the relationships and character flaws that led people on both sides to make ridiculous decisions.
Tuchman puts the reader in an intellectual and emotional place of wanting to root for the French, Russian, and British leaders so hard!
But especially for the civilians...and that library.
Second is Tuchman's microscopic focus on a tiny period of the First World War. No grand overviews for The Guns of August.
Tuchman's focus on the great leaders makes perfect sense to her history book, to the history it's trying to tell, but it also leads too easily to her own biases (which is something I find myself saying about nearly every historian.
Regardless of its flaws, The Guns of August is an excellent piece of work, especially if you are knowledgeable about the First World War, but have taken a break from studying this decidedly depressing period and need a way back in.
