https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1940199.Prophecy_and_Modern_Times
I first read it when I was twelve. Now it comes off as lacking enlightenment, dated, science fiction, etc. It doesn't help that I familiarized myself with Skousen's other writings. Sorry, but reading it again, I was totally unimpressed. Some of this stuff is urban legend for church members too, although that was actually the fun part of reading it....finding all the myth.
Very interesting look at prophecies that have been and are occuring. I learned new things about the lost 10 tribes. I'm still trying to figure out what he means about the creation. Straight forward explanation about the events to happen leading up to the 2nd coming of the Savior.
It presented only scriptural citations and prophetic quotes relating to these "latter-days." What I loved about this book is that the author quotes all his sources.
I was so happy to have found a real document or person to stand behind many of the things people spout in Sunday school class such as, "You know, they say that in the last days, our constitution will hang by a thread..." Aaarrrrggg!
Another thing I liked is that Skousen makes no attempt to give a timeline.
I was just happy to read something that gathered all the information, sorted it, and put it into concise words that I could understand.
ExcellentMade total sense. Wonderful book. Would recommend it to anyone interested in the second coming. Totally documented book. Great read.
A quick and concise read on the prophecies of the scriptures. I feel a level of excitement and desire to actively be engaged in the work of the Lord. I'm also impressed with the authors ability to do the research and put it all in order. I look forward to the future.
I probably should have read this when there were less distractions around me but I had a hard time staying interested in it. I was hoping for more explanation of some of the prophecy but felt like the author just told what they were and then moved on to the next one.
Wonderful SummaryI loved the organized and detailed description of the last days. To see the Prophecies laid out so well was an answer to prayer.
Interesting, but dated little book on the last days. I liked the teaching on science and religion being reconciled in the Millenium.
I loved this book.
I was so glad to find something that had many revelations put together into one book.
This book really made me think and ponder.
A really great book for understanding particular revelations of modern times!
The writer helps the reader more easily see what certain prophecies could mean and what we are to expect.
Note:::While this book is heavily scripture-based, readers should be aware that Skousen comes up with his own educated interpretations of certain prophecies, which may or may not be entirely true.
We have yet to know what exactly will happen, but this book is good to bring up discussion with others.
This book edition if 1952 original copyright was 1939 and the information is still valid today.It includes a remarkable introduction, Phrophecy concerning America, Prophecy concerning Palestine, and Prophecy concerning the Millennium.The referances are The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints scriptures.
For the student of the end times you will be highly enlightened as the LDS scriptures have been restored in the 1800s.Joseph Smith prayeed to know what church to join and received revelation on to join any of them as they all were good but not complete.
He then started Christ's own church and received many revelations.The author of this little book is definitely a scholar.Any questions to this information can be answered by contacting Mormon.org or LDS.org.
I think this book is well written and well prepared.
Skousen does an amazing job of putting the prophesies in some form of chronological order and is spoken such plain language that all can understand.
It should be a must read book on your list.
This book is a great start with a very nice forward written by Ezra Taft Benson.
I love that this book is timeless.
The prophesies don't change over time.
I also love that every reference to any prophesy is noted where to find it in the scriptures.
This book is hard to find.
Deseret book or Segull Book might be able to order it.
Even though it was written by Skousen, it is not written in such a lofty way that it can't be understood.
My book is very marked up as there are so many things that I learned from this book.
Where the garden of eden and the city of enoch really was.Building the New Jerusalem, the return of the 10 tribes, the sign of the coming of the Son Of Man. This is a very very good book.
I've been an active member of the church my whole life and while I don't really consider myself to be extremely knowledgeable about church doctrine, most things at least sound familiar when I hear them again.
There were a couple things in this book that I don't ever remembering hearing before which I found quite refreshing.
In watching the news today I keep thinking the end must be seriously close (which does not give me warm and fuzzy feelings) but reading this book made think we've got more time, which actually makes me feel better as I watch our country fall to shambles.
An insightful book by a true scriptorianHe infuses the standard works and on occasion modern-day revelation from LDS apostles into his argument to help one develop an understanding of prophecies related to America and Palestine/Israel. Plus it's cool to see how little (or much, depending on your point of view) the world has changed since it was first written in 1938 (ten years before Israel existed!).
While this book is older and I'm not 100 percent sure that all will be like Bro. Skousen purports... He bases everything he says on direct quotations from modern and ancient scripture and it is a short read! I read the entire book in the same afternoon! And I came away from it feeling I had a better general sense of much of what is to occur in these exciting, perilous last days. I recommend it.
This was a fascinating read for me. It's written from an LDS perspective and puts all the revelations of ancient and modern day prophets together. Reading parts of Isaiah makes more sense to me. 4 stars because I got lost reading it a few times which means I got a little distracted/bored but I did like it!
Like most Skousen, this book will rock your world and set your hair on fire. Plain talking characterizes this book. Skousen sugar coats nothing and is very clear about what has come, what's here and what's coming down the pike. I read this book when I feel lazy or tired now; my apathy doesn't last long!
I wanted to read this before I read The Cleansing if America. Not nearly as long as I thought it would be, but it hit on all the major points. It didn't go into nearly as much detail as Prophecy: Key to the Future by Duane Crowther, but I wanted to see where he started from before I read his more recent book.
I really enjoyed his book - and simplified the prophecies of the last days while staying consistent with doctrine. For that reason I give this a big thumbs up! If you want a clear picture of the prophecies of the latter day while not getting lost - read it. It was relevant when first published and still today!
A spiritual feast of doctrine! Every LDS church member should read this book. It's a reference of sorts to all the events and prophecies concerning the last days. At only 150 pages its very much worth your time.
LOVE it, I'm on my 3rd time listening to this book, and I think it's absolutely essential for anyone with enough faith to believe in the Savior, Jesus Christ, and His modern day prophets and apostles.
My own copy of this is the third edition printed in 1951 without an ISBN, and has some pages which are close to falling out if not handled gingerly. I don't recall what box of hand-me-downs it came in, or from whom.
I loved this book. Everything was straight forward and helped me understand a little better what will happen during the second coming. There were no opinions, just fact quoted by scripture and modern day prophets. It was quite dense so I'll need to reread it to internalize some of the doctrine.
Not really a sky is falling book. More a warning. Worth reading. Nice quotes and good reference. Well researched.
Written so long ago and yet applies to right now and the things happening. Isn't revelation so great?
Mr. Skousen has put everything together in this book. Very clear and concise. I love this book, have read through it several times. Unfortunately it is out of print.
Very informative. Well put together.
This short book cuts to the chase about that events will lead up to the 2nd coming.
Very interesting second coming and last days book.
A very clear, easy to understand quick read about present and latter day prophecies. It also has a foreword by Ezra Taft Benson.
