https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400412.The_Waste_Land_and_Other_Poems
One final, patronising kiss and gropes his way, finding the stairs unlit.All the same, this is one of the masterworks of the language, some of it still forms a lump in my throat as the currents rise and fall and I pass through all the stages of my youth and age.Okay, so maybe I wouldn’t quite agree with him now that ‘if you want to read me, learn my language’ – pretty much meaning learn the whole of European poetry to read a single poem – but very young men find this is exactly the sort of thing that draws one to Nietzsche – and Eliot was always my favourite right-wing wanker.
I consider The Hollow Men one of the greatest poems in the English language, and certainly the greatest from the 20th century.
But, alas, I am not because there is also a poem I detest in here.
I consider The Waste Land one of the worse poems in the English language because of it’s incomprehensibleness.
Every time I read it I get lost.
I’ve read it several times over the years, and it really doesn’t get any easier.
S. Eliot, You walked among the starsIn your words, light trails blazing.Master of the modern,Ruler of the poetic.There is, and was, no poet to compare.Your mythology and legend stand immense.Behold the waste land of the world,Behold the glorious prose of a world shaker.Though some have called thee,Mighty and dreadful  plagiarist,Such slander upholds your greatness,The potency of your reinvention.There is a power to you - in rewriting the eloquentSo behold T.S. Eliot.A masterful poet.One who walked among the starsAnd brought the heavens a little nearer.What more can a poet do?There is a simplicity to the greatest poetry.
And that is part of the beauty of language, that because the poet strips everything down, there is so much which you can read into and draw as your own understanding of what the poem is about.And that is what I sensed in The Wasteland and the other poems.
We who were living are now dying - With a little patience!Break The Bough, and hang yourself from it, Sweeney, Prufrock, The Fisher King and the sterile others, all will follow first,like corpses etherised on well-lit tables.****Remember me, me - Tiresias, once more, for we are all him, yet not.The present will always look at the mirror,and see only a Wasteland,The Past is always the heavenly spring, running dry now.Perspective,Thy name is Poetry.****London Bridge is falling down falling down falling downThese fragments you have shored against my ruins.Why is it impossible to say just what I mean!Datta.
A depth measured by many oceans, a mystery viewed from bewitching lenses, a song marrying numerous notes, a candle thriving on inexhaustible wax.During his writing season, that spanned over three decades, T S Eliot penned many evocative and luscious poems, with his pen always leaving a signature cryptic mark over his dotted sheets.
And while my soul may curse my mind for being picky about Eliot’s poems, I might go asunder for a while and share with you three gems, whose themes, narratives, cadence and wholeness can be adorned by adjectives from the ‘superlative’ family alone.
Thus starts this splendid poem, which is a mighty paean to a person’s journey from youth to mellow.
In the upcoming book The World Broke in Two by Bill Goldstein, Virginia Woolf is pleased by hearing "The Wasteland" read by Eliot. Several times she mentions that she has not read the poem but only listened to it. I did the same with the Audible edition. There is something to gain in listening.
Hey, three stars from me for poetry is good!
In some distant past, when I was in college or maybe it was even high school, I was told by teachers just how good this poem was.
But it does get me off my ass, and so I finally recently read The Waste Land and Other Poems, not to mention War and Peace.Once upon a time schools taught children...I was going to go on, but no, that sums it up.
And some of them later became writers themselves and they wrote poems like those found in this book, filled with references lost on ill-educated clods like myself.
Probably my favourite poet. Poetry at its most incredible.
اگر به خاطر نقطه ساکن نبود رقصی وجود نداشت
This is one of my favorite books of all time and to prove it, I named my dog Prufrock. I wanted to put a picture of him here for you SO BAD that after stoically refusing for a million years, I finally opened a Flickr account so I upload my pix on GR. So here is a shot of the time the cutest dog ever did the cutest thing ever and I actually died.
He borrows from Shakespeare, from Homer, Henry James, all sorts of authors and thinkers and tinkerers, and blends them with the lowbrow culture which was pervasive in his day, and has a bold rhythm which is counter to its highbrow literary past.
Dovetailing off of Eliot's convergence of the high and low brow cultures in poetry, there is a kind of split between the ultra-obscurism of Wallace Stevens (whom I adore) and Hart Crane, and the self-indulgent colloquiality of Auden, Berryman, etc.
However, I think poetry these days (which isn't to say all of it, or necessarily much of it, but rather the sort of stock-persona of poetry) is highly self-indulgent and pretentious.
I once won 50$ for reciting The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock is a coffee shop. Making this the only one of my books to pay for itself in a material way.
Although I have read “The Waste Land” a number of times, it has been a long time since I read it last, and I have never studied it very thoroughly, having become entranced with “Four Quartets” and devoted most of my time and attention to that magnificent poem.
Reading TWL again now, I am once again impressed, however, with its imagery and wealth of allusions.
Without knowing this poem, one cannot hope to fully appreciate what to me is his greatest achievement, the lovely and profound “Four Quartets” (not included in this present volume).
"We have lingered in the chambers of the seaBy sea-girls wreathed with seaweed red and brownTill human voices wake us, and we drown." I may have just found my favourite American poet, even if some of his poems are incredibly religious in nature. "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" is absolutely wonderful and has some of the most fluid rhyming I've ever read.
Very good, but not my favorite.
Never fails to give me goosebumps.
Making an effort this time to read other sources, think about the project of making a mosaic out of a broken world.___________________Thank God for the Internet--really inspiring to read these dense works and then have access to such a myriad of supplemental sources.
And I agree, one should not lose the initial music and mystery to being too literal, and that it is a sign of our contemporary literalism that I'm tempted to google everything...
and yet, I don't think it destroys the song and the mystery to actually know what that Italian or German or French poem or song was.
I have measured out my life with coffee spoonsI first heard of The Love Song of J.
Alfred Prufock while listening to a podcast of Entitled Opinions (thanks Tom) last winter.
That podcast concerned Dante, however I found Eliot's images both vivid and modern.
I then mentally shelved such for a future read.
This present week appeared apt.
While sorting through Marx and, then, Derrida on Marx and Shakespeare I found the prevailing winds favorable.
The Waste Land and especially Eliot's notes for such strikes me as mere wanking.
Oh well, verse isn't my métier, especially those alluding to the Grail.
3.5 starsI have wanted to read The Waste Land since seeing various quotes taken from it strewn throughout Stephen King's works.
It was a lovely, although windy, day, and I just enjoyed the walk home with my nose stuck in a book.
This is my own failing, due to my own preference for reading prose rather than verse, but unfortunately, I have to take it out on poor Eliot.
I did like it, but I just feel like I should have loved it.
I won’t dare to pretend I understand everything; first of all, I have read very few of the works alluded to, so I didn’t “get” much of the meaning directly from my own experience.
My edition does have Eliot’s notes and additional endnotes as well, but that’s not the same as understanding all the subtle nuances that may be in those original works.
And in that vein, here are some of my favorite lines:(from The Love Song of J.
What the Thunder Said)Lines 331 - 358, that begins:Here is no water but only rockRock and no water and the sandy roadThe road winding above among the mountainsWhich are mountains of rock without water...
One of my absolute favorite poems despite its formidable length.
Throughout the rest of his career, Eliot would build upon and around these works that would eventually lead to the Noble Prize in Literature and a prominent place in today’s literature classes.While I am right now in no way ready to critique Eliot’s work, I will do so in the volume it was presented in.
While the publishers and editors wanted to present Eliot’s work with his personal Notes or footnotes in the back of the book to preserve the author’s intention of presentation, over the course of reading the exercise of going from the front of the book to the back to understand the footnotes became tiresome.
And if you, like me, are lazy enough not to go back and forth to the editor footnotes or to have an analysis side text, or if you think Eliot isn't lyrical enough to be fully enjoyed, just go to youtube and search for a reading on "The Waste Land" from Sir Alec Guiness to read along (here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hcj4G...), you will find his written words, such as: 
are as powerful and bewitching as "This aren't the droids you're looking for...".By the way, I also like a lot a reading from Sir Anthony Hopkins on "The Love Song of J.
I have been reading and rereading that poem since I was about 17, and each time I read it, I come to understand it a little bit differently.
This poem comforted me when I lost my sister, helps me breath when I am overwhelmed by the pace of life, and intrigues me endlessly.
his voice was not at all what I expected: it quivered, thin and high, and fell like the clanging of a clock at the end of lines.
The feel of this work to, is clock-like, keeping time, keeping time.
On one hand there is no doubt that Eliot is an absolute master, but on the other I found his poetry frustratingly inaccessible and not enjoyable to read.
His immense influence on modernism is clearly evident, but his use of mythology and literary references made reading his poems feel at times as if each line was disconnected from the rest.
I consider myself fairly well read in classical literature, mythology etc.
Eliot's poems would be a blast to read and study as a literature student, but for pure enjoyment they definitely miss the mark for me.
Distilled in these poems is everything that makes writing great; intellectual and emotional potency, beauty in both each line and the structure itself.And no, I don't understand "The Waste Land" but my goodness if it doesn't fire up my imagination.A woman drew her long black hair out tightAnd fiddled whisper music on those stringsAnd bats with baby faces in the violet lightWhistled, and beat their wingsAnd crawled head downward down a blackened wallAnd upside down in the air were towersTolling reminiscent bells, that kept the hoursAnd voices singing out of empty cisterns and exhausted wellsIf that stanza doesn't strike awe into your heart, Eliot isn't for you.My favorite poem in this collection was "Marina", a quote of which Gaddis utilized in his dedication of "The Recognitions", which bears distinct traces of Eliot's influence.What seas what shores what granite islands towards my timbersAnd woodthrush calling through the fogMy daughterIt's the sort of poetry that seems to curl around your tongue; "And woodthrush calling through the fog..." you feel the need to stretch it out, slow it down, repeat it, languish in its rhythms.In these poems, Eliot finds a way to make intellectual allusions resonate on a visceral, emotional level.
Just think of it as a sort of self-conducted experiment involving brain research, or consider it a self-inquiry into how full of crap I am now compared to when I bought The Waste Land and Other Poems as an undergrad some thirty years ago...This all began with my major project of the summer, cleaning my basement, which essentially means vacuuming up pounds of mouse shit and taking many things out of boxes and then putting them back into boxes, sometimes the same boxes, sometimes not.
I don’t understand "The Waste Land".
Now don’t get me wrong, I would love to say that I totally understand Eliot, that people just take the wrong approach, that most readers lack the wide reading necessary to catch his esoteric references.
After all, I don’t care who you are (unless you are James Joyce), you’re not as well read as Eliot.
Of course, I don’t understand that poem either.
Just consider the beginning: “Let us go, you and I / When the evening is spread out against the sky / Like a patient etherized upon a table”.
I like the 'drip drop' water section in the poem, and especially this line: "At the violet hour, when the eyes and backTurn upward from the desk, when the humanengine waitsLike a taxi throbbing waiting"because that was the line that introduced me to Eliot (at all), from A Series of Unfortunate Events ;)But most of all I'm very perplexed by his poems, can't wait to study The Waste Land, wish I'm learning Prufrock and his earlier poems as well :( I'll probably feel like this deserves more stars in the future!!
Having read this more times than I remember, it is time to write a quick review.
I started using this in the classes that I teach when, somehow or other, I noticed or heard or read about how this work is connected to The Great Gatsby (another work I "teach").
You should read it if you haven't and read it again if you only read it once because you were forced to at university.If you are overwhelmed by the "stuff you aren't getting" use this website as a companion:http://world.std.com/~raparker/explor...
