https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23786803-the-wicked-marquis
Fun read of an English aristocrat, a poor daughter of the gardener, her father and a nephew. The Marquez takes the daughter as his companion lover and her father a religious fanatic becomes obsessed with the ruination of this man. They move to America where the nephew becomes rich with the help of the gardener and swears an oath to help destroy the Marquez. They return to England to set their plan in motion.
A story of privilege and the attempt to keep what has been lost. The Marquis will go to any length to get enough money to enjoy his title, including forcing one of his daughters to marry an unsuitable candidate with money. Good character study and engaging plot.
Great bookThis book is dated and not for everyone. It painted a picture of life long past. I enjoyed the book. The ending was satisfying.
A wonderful book, great story, so well written. I enjoyed it from beginning to end.
Phillips Oppenheim before I came across a reference to him in A Way Through the Wood.
In that book he's mentioned as an author of spy novels, and the narrator reflects that every intelligence agent he's ever met seems to be—consciously or unconsciously—imitating the characters in Oppenheim's novels.
Ironically, I started with this novel where there's not a spy in sight.
There is however, a charming portrait of post-war England, a cast of unusual characters, and an intriguing plot.
I enjoyed the book very much and am looking forward to reading more of Oppenheim's novels.
Perhaps I'll even run across a spy or two.
Then, in that democratic thoroughfare, for the first time since the calamity had happened, his lips were unlocked in somewhat singular fashion."Well, I'm damned!" he exclaimed, with slow and significant emphasis."The Marquis is a perfect gentleman of the old school: mannered, impecunious, amusing, and cultured.
The Marquis has bankrupted himself with lawsuits seeking it's return.To complicate matters, The Marquis has been the lover of Vont's daughter Marcia, for twenty years.
David returns a millionaire, and is intent on completing the devastation of the Marquis, and his estate.
It is the property of Richard Vont, whose family has been tenants at Mandeleys for generations, and who refuses to go away without a fight.Eighteen years ago, the marquis took an interest in Vont’s only daughter, bringing her under his wing and spiriting her across England and beyond.
Now he has come up with a plan to avenge his loss and destroy the marquis once and for all.As the plot unfolds, the righteousness of Vont’s anger is called into question, as is the loyalty of his American mercenary.
What a compelling, interesting little story. The author does such a good job at character development. He keeps the story moving and builds suspense, making the reader dread what could be a disaster for the characters involved.
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.
