https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12075.Tractatus_Logico_Philosophicus
Donald Trump's latest protestations about having to fight the "crooked media" remind me of a famous passage from §5.62 of the Tractatus:Was der Solipsismus nämlich m e i n t, ist ganz richtig, nur lässt es sich nicht s a g e n, sondern es zeigt sich.
Dass die Welt m e i n e Welt ist, das zeigt sich darin, dass die Grenzen d e r Sprache (der Sprache, die allein ich verstehe) die Grenzen m e i n e r Welt bedeuten.In fact what solipsism means, is quite correct, only it cannot be said, but it shows itself.
One gets the feeling that, for Wittgenstein, writing philosophy is repugnant, akin to unclogging a toilet, something he would like to get over with as soon as possible.Come to think of it, the toilet metaphor is especially apt.
It’s almost as if he had a superstitious fear of transgressing the bounds of sense—a superstition all the more perplexing because he places its object outside the realm of thought.But, like most good books of philosophy, the Tractatus is rewarding to read even if one doesn't accept its conclusions.
Spend time on every sentence, and savor every word, and maybe Wittgenstein will unclog the toilet of your mind.
What can I say about Tractatus that hasn't been said a million times before?
Crystalline...
gnomic...
wrong.
I ask my subconscious if it can come up with anything, and while I'm in the shower it shows me the sequence from Terry Gilliam's 1988 movie The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, where John Neville and Eric Idle build a hot air balloon made entirely from women's lingerie.I am about to smack my subconscious upside the head for its appalling presumption, but suddenly I see that it could have a point.
It's obviously crazy, but also quite unforgettable.
Here the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus is everything that is the case.1.1 It is the case because it is the subject of this review.
What is not the case cannot be named because it did not occur and cannot be a state of affairs.1.2 What is the case--a fact--is the existence of states of affairs.2.
An interpretation of facts is a thought.2.1 Only logical thoughts can exist.2.11 What is logical can be thought.2.112 What can be thought is logical.2.2 What can be thought is the totality of states of affairs.2.3 While reading the case many of the states of affairs were caused by interpretations--thoughts--that were not logical.2.4 Because the thoughts were not logical, the case cannot be said to exist.3.
Like many young American readers, I made the mistake of reading the bulk of this text in an In-N-Out, and now it is difficult for me to think about elementary propositions without thinking about someone ordering a cheeseburger, and, subsequently, thinking about the relationship between the sign of "cheeseburger" and the atomic fact of the cheeseburger it refers to. Wittgenstein orders his cheeseburger with the totality of everything that is the case. And he eats the whole thing in under 100 pages.
You see, someone like Bertrand Russell, whose genius I recognize, was so impressed by this Wittgenstein dude that he gave up mathematical logic just because Wittgenstein told him so.
This was after Russell had spent years on writing Principia Mathematica and trying to defend logic and set theory against the sort of paradoxes of which Russell’s paradox is the most famous one.
I read it, and then it ended with: “That disposes of Russell’s paradox.” I was like: Say what?
Gödel was a Platonist who believed that mathematics describes an abstract reality, not the empirical reality of logical positivists like Russell and Wittgenstein.
6.52 Nosotros sentimos que incluso sitodas las posibles cuestiones científicaspudieran responderse, el problema denuestra vida no habría sido másprofundizado.
Desde luego que no queda yaninguna pregunta, y precisamente ésta esla respuesta.6.521 La solución del problema de la vidaestá en la desaparición de este problema.(¿No es ésta la razón de que loshombres que han llegado a ver claro elsentido de la vida después de muchodudar, no sepan decir en qué consiste estesentido?)6.522 Hay, ciertamente, lo inexpresable,lo que se muestra a sí mismo; esto es lomístico.6.53 El verdadero método de la filosofíasería propiamente éste: no decir nada,sino aquello que se puede decir; es decir,las proposiciones de la ciencia natural –algo, pues, que no tiene nada que ver conla filosofía-; y siempre que alguienquisiera decir algo de carácter metafísico,demostrarle que no ha dado significado aciertos signos en sus proposiciones.
The ingenious work which, had it been true, would have provided a firm foundation for Positivism and provided justification for Philosophy's existence. It also would have pretty much been the last word on the nature of and philosophical limits of language. Instead Wittgenstein repudiated this view and put a nail in the coffin with P.I.Elegant, minimal, logically crystalline. And mostly wrong.
"Για τα πράγματα που δεν μπορείς να μιλήσεις, πρέπει να σωπαίνεις."Όπως ο ίδιος ο Wittgenstein προλογεί στο έργο του, αν δεν έχετε σκεφτεί από μόνοι σας αυτό που θέλει να πει το βιβλίο, τότε το βιβλίο αυτό δεν είναι για εσάς.
Για αυτό ψάξτε πρώτα στο YouTube ή γενικά στο Διαδίκτυο για τον συγγραφέα και την φιλοσοφία του πριν αγοράσετε το βιβλίο.
Σχεδόν δεν ήθελα να το αγοράσω γιατί πίστευα ότι είχα "τελειώσει" με τον Wittgenstein και ότι είχα ανακαλύψει πλέον τα πάντα από το έργο του.
Και από την στιγμή που η γλώσσα δεν είναι τέλεια, δεν γίνεται να φιλοσοφήσουμε.
What the hell am I supposed to say about this?The parts I understood were hugely inspirational to my
"گزاره" ها، "وضعيت هاى ممكن امور" را "تصوير" مى كنند.اما تصویر چیست؟ تصویر رابطه ایست حقیقی بین گزاره و وضعیت امور متناظر با آن.
بر عكس "دلالت" كه گفتيم اسم و شىء با هم ارتباطى ندارند و رابطه به کلی قراردادی است، در "تصوير" گزاره با وضعيت ممكن امور ارتباط واقعى دارد و این دو واقعاً شبیه به هم هستند.
رابطه ى گزاره و وضعيت ممكن امور اين گونه است.
گفتيم به آن وضعيت ممكن امور كه در واقع محقق شده باشد، مى گوییم "واقعيت".
حال اگر گزاره (كه تصوير يک وضعيت ممكن است) مطابق واقعيت باشد، "صادق" است، و اگر مطابق واقعيت نباشد، "كاذب".مثلاً در واقع ميز سفيد است.
+5 for writing this (apparently while serving in WW1)-1 because not enough examples. That would've helped to clear up a ton of confusion (for example, what exactly is the N-operator)-1 because I CANFinal grade: 3/5
Absolutely trite and unconvincing. A bloodless and conceited bore, organized as though by a severe autistic. The assumptions about cognition are laughably archaic, and the popularity of this work is a thorn in my throat.
موضوعات عمده رساله منطقی فلسفی از هم تفکیک شده اند و جداگانه محل بحث قرار گرفته اند که این موجب انسجام در مطالعه می شود.
مباحثی که مطرح شده است به خوبی مورد بحث قرار گرفته اند (هرچند در برخی موارد سوال هایی در ذهنم شکل گرفت که شارح آنها را بی جواب گذاشته است).
من با اینکه با سنت فلسفه تحلیلی همنوایی ندارم (که دلیلش بر می گردد به رهیافت عمده ی فلسفه ی تحلیلی در خصوص نحوه ی تقرب به مسائل فلسفی)، از خواندن این شرح هم چیزهای زیادی یاد گرفتم هم علاقه ای در من ایجاد شد تا دست کم ویتگنشتاین را ناخوانده بر جای نگذارم.منتها خود رساله کماکان برایم مبهم است.
Lisbon Book-Fair 2017.
It is arranged like a series of proofs, with an idea or definition asserted and subsequent statements building upon or out from that assertion to go deeper into what that piece of language does or what it means.
This book is remarkable and fascinating as an argument about the form of language and how it communicates true things about the world.
Wittgenstein's dissection of the form and logic of language is not a place for frugality.
Boring, Absurd, False. The foundation for the most mindless philosophy to have ever subsisted.
The burning bridge to the post-Tractatus Wittgenstein -- cognitive-therapist of language-games high and low -- appears in proposition 4.112: "Philosophy aims at the logical clarification of thoughts.
Fallacious cognition fuels our motivational self-esteem just as caloric intake fuels our body systems.)And so, like Gottlob Frege postscripting Vol. II of his Foundations of Arithmetic to the effect that Russell's Paradox had undermined his entire project, Wittgenstein sweeps a resigned hand across the Tibetan sand-painting of his Cambridge apprenticeship, downsizing "the Philosopher" to mere critic, therapist, dilettante, revisionist, and pedagogue.Which is, I think, an eminently sane place to be.
Wittgenstein says explicitly in the introduction of the book that no one has not already had these thoughts will be able to understand it, and should therefore not read it.
I, having not fully had many of these thoughts, was nonetheless absolutely THRILLED by the book--it's abstruseness notwithstanding--to the point where I would bring it up in conversation with absolute strangers, which, needless to say, affected the number of friends I made during that time.
An important book for everyone to read, as it shows us how NOT to write prose, what really matters in life (not necessarily what he wrote about), and the value of thought.
Patience is necessary if you're not within philosophy academia, like myself. It's not light reading but, conversely, Wittgenstein is not heavy material. In fact, it's the strict, disciplined simplicity of his ideas that adds some difficulty. The book ends on a fantastic note, either an affirmation or a haymaker to the field of philosophy. I'm still unsure which.
Wittgenstein's minimalistic aesthetic and stringent personal ethic are everywhere apparent: sparse, enigmatic, and rigorously precise, the Tractatus proceeds in a series of numbered propositions, guiding the reader through ever more perplexing doctrines about ontology, logic, and language, and ending with a rapturous climax that has captured the imaginations of students of philosophy, literature, and the arts for nearly a century: My propositions serve as elucidations in the following way: anyone who understands me eventually recognizes them as nonsensical, when has used them - as steps - to climb up beyond them.
David Markson made some funny aphorisms regarding Harold Bloom's claim to The New York Times that he could read 500 pages in an hour (highly dubious):"Writer's arse.Spectacular exhibition!
See Professor Bloom read the 1961 corrected and reset Random House edition of James Joyce's Ulysses in one hour and thirty-three minutes.
I mean, one really needs a background in logic, philosophy in general, and in what Bertrand Russell was doing with Principia Mathematica and Frege's ideas prior to the publication of the Tractatus to understand where Wittgenstein was coming from.
I will get back to this in a few years and several 1,000's of pages of philosophy, mathematics, and logic later.
I love this book, and I am not sure why. I actually pick it up time-to-time and it is really a book that can't be defined by words - I think about it and it's almost abstract. And that is the essence of the book. How do you define something abstract into words - and are words enough to describe something that can't be said, but can be felt?
Sure, it's not the easiest thing to comprehend given Wittgenstein's autistic-child writing style, and sure, it's not something I agree with that often, given both my materialist leanings and my greater love of Wittgenstein's later repudiations of his earlier work. Is this important and influential? God yes. Does that make it worth reading? Probably. Did I enjoy it? No, not at all, especially given that the logical positivist program it inspired -- while equally important and influential -- proved to be an intellectual dead end.
We can only logically acknowledge that we understand our own thoughts (our pictures of the world) and that we understand our conveyence of these pictures in language.
Like Heidegger, Wittgenstein feels the Cartesian tradition is a misguided attempt to think beyond the world that the subject is already a part of.
For Wittgenstein, the subject has already acknowledged the world simply by having an impression of it that he can convey through language.
If Heidegger's being-in-the-world cannot doubt the light of being that shines upon him, how was the clearing through which the sun reaches him created and shaped?
Each piece of wood is a proposition that mirrors or pictures a fact in the world.
Any part of that woodpile is logically based on the elementary propositions at its base.
The facts in the world that propositions are supposed to mirror, seem to me to be metaphysical projections.
He says, for example, that they are the logical structure which propositions and the world have in common.
He also says that one cannot speak of this logical structure, because to do so, one would have to be outside the woodpile.
eines dieser maßlos überschätzten werke, das in seinem völlig unzugänglichen (selbst vom eigentlich-bin-ich-ja-architekt-autor als spartanischem würfel gestalteten) elfenbeinturm vielleicht von herrn L.W. selbst verstanden worden ist, wobei ich selbst das stark anzweifle.
wenn ein buch (vor allem ein philosophisches!) schon auf den ersten seiten mit mathematischen formeln daherkommt und es nicht schafft, im rahmen der sprache zu bleiben (von der es ja letztendlich daherschwadroniert), ist irgendetwas fundamental schief gegangen.
abgesehen davon finden sich im rahmen dieses "tractatus" etliche behauptungen die ohne reflexion im luftleeren raum verbleiben.
prädikat: wertlos!(die einzige fundierte und angemessene reaktion auf dieses buch kommt meineserachtens von m.
The Tractatus is a mesmerizing pile of poo.
I spent a semester trying to understand whatever it was that Wittgenstein seemed to have stumbled upon...
it turns out that this is just nothing more than an engineer writing bad poetry.
Crap.
Absolute crap.."Whereof that which we cannot speak we must pass over in silence." What the devil is this?
Translation: "I can't roll with the big dogs so I'm going to take my ball and go home."If you want to read some philosophy, go approach Plato, Aristotle, Kant, Fichte, Hegel, or heck...
This is most definitely NOT philosophy.
It was like reading bad poetry written by an engineer who cannot think outside the box. I did not really enjoy it.But I do admit that I have not read too many philosophical essays yet, so this book might not have been ready for me yet (yeah, Wittisteini, how do you like the logical form of THAT sentence? =D )So sadly, although I had asked myself a few of the questions Wittgenstein claims to deal with in his little book, I could not really take useful inspiration or substance with me from his writings.
Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus, Ludwig Wittgenstein
