https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19632.Like_Life
Are you the kind of person who has a sarcastic sense of humor but find yourself surrounded by people who can't seem to get the joke?
If so, you might really like this book.These are bleak, funny stories about lost people, written in a brisk, colloquial prose that sparkles with a wit that never masks the desperation of the characters' disorganized lives.
The typical story features an East Coast intellectual woman marooned in the Midwest, using irony to defend herself in an environment impervious to irony.All the stories have merit.
"Two Boys, "Joy" and "Places to Look for Your Mind" are very good, and "You're Ugly Too" is excellent.
I like this book.I have read this book many times. I do not read it that much anymore. A lot of it is annoying to me now but I read it many times before. I read some of the stories maybe 10 times. I feel like Lorrie Moore worked a lot harder and longer and with more agony in her face while editing than anyone else I have read, for short stories.
Each book I've read of Lorrie Moore's slides me even closer to unconditional love.
(okay, not yet reaching for hyperbole like "she can transcribe the Phone Book and I'd read it" but pretty close).
Six of the 8 stories of her Like Life were a joy, though because it was so short, the few stories that were missteps (including the last, "Like Life", a needlessly peculiar dystopian experiment channeling Margaret Atwood) were jarring.
Can't comment on her newer stuff, but her earlier collections like this (and Birds of America) place her firmly among the very best contemporary American short story writers today.
Adam Mars-Jones has this to say about LM:"The dominant influence on American short fiction when Moore started publishing was the stoic minimalism of Raymond Carver, the recovering binger's pledge of: 'One sentence at a time.' She escaped that influence, and was spared the struggle of throwing it off, but its underlying principle of whittling away excess is something her stories badly need.
Her husband tells her to make notes for a story, since they may need money for the medical expenses.In theory, then, this is about a piece of life too raw to be transformed into fiction, but in practice, it's the most mannered and posturing thing in the book.
This book is an inspiration in it’s quiet deliverance of realistic characters. Constructed of eight short stories about the loveliness and heartache in the smallest most trite life experiences, it was compelling and I busted through it nonstop. This created an obsession with reading as many books of hers as I could get ahold of, as is evident in my reading list for 2008; I admire her style so much."Moore dances around the edges of broken relationships with a delicacy that expresses both despair, acceptance, and a fledging resilience to try again....These are stories that bear rereading." Library Journal
A sinopse diz que esta colectânea de contos descreve o abismo emocional entre homens e mulheres e o receio de uma ligação afectiva. Não confirmo nem desminto, pois não consegui ultrapassar o abismo existente entre mim e a escrita de Lorrie Moore. Comecei todos os contos e só consegui terminar o primeiro. Tenho pena...talvez com "Pássaros da América" seja diferente...
Lorrie Moore is one of my favorite contemporary authors. I have a big collection of her short stories on order from Amazon, but I was glad to see this smaller, early collection hiding in the library (most places only carry Birds of America). Her writing is so poignant, incisive and witty, with such precise and startling figures of speech--I both love it and hate it at the same time, because I know I'll never achieve what she manages to in prose. Moore's gifts are luminous; that rare person who can make you laugh while you cry.
Like her other story collections, this one is piercing, sad, funny, and not a single page goes by without an observation or turn of phrase worth reading over again.
i read this book while i was backpacking through europe, the stories are very funny and also very depressing.
I have to give this collection three stars because Lorrie Moore's writing is just that good; no matter what her subject matter, at the very least, I always enjoy hearing her voice and encountering her narrative structures.
However, it's a somewhat mean-spirited collection.
The title encapsulates the overarching position Moore presents about the midwest in this book: that it is "like life" there, but not real life, not really.
I know this is supposed to be everyone's "early"-Moore favorite, but it just isn't mine. The much-anthologized "You're Ugly, Too" is fine--not brilliant, sorry, but perfectly fine--but I find many of the others to have a weird kind of rage or self-hatred or insecurity or something boiling up from within that gives them a sour tone. Moore harnesses all that said rage/self-hatred/insecurity to better effect elsewhere, I think.
Re-read:2 1/2 years since last time?! Scary.Think I thought I'd understand these stories better on a re-read. But while they make interesting points, they're also obliquely oblique. How annoying!First review:I knew I was going to love this one. Which I guess is why I avoided reading it for so long. I don't think I like guaranteed pleasers!What We Life When We Love About Like
It can even be found in phenomena, such as the phenomenon known as reading-many-literary-fiction-magazines-and-wanting-to-be-a-writer.
It can even haunt certain genres; it is the devil hiding in the genre known (and gnowm) as literary fiction.It is a dreadful school.
And I dread it because one can never know whether one is enrolled in this school, or perhaps one is even a graduate!
But anyway, they write.After reading x-number of pages in this book, I felt that it was a product of the school of competence, and then I ran out of free pages, and then I gave up.
“Zoë came up, slow, from behind and gave him a shove.” The fourth story in Like Life, “You’re Ugly, Too,” is most likely Lorrie Moore’s most anthologized story. It would be interesting to try to estimate how many people worldwide own at least three copies of it. It has been printed, for instance, in: (1) Like Life; (2) The New Yorker magazine in 1989; (3) The New Yorker’s 2000 anthology of New York stories Wonderful Town: New York Stories from The New Yorker; (4) the Best American series’ 2000
In her best stories, she overcomes the twitch altogether (in my opinion) to create something of genuine and lasting beauty.I can see how it can be jarring if you've come to her books only by hearing obscene amounts of hype about her and her wit, though.The other thing you have to know about Lorrie Moore is that many of her most ardent fans first came to her work in the context of her short stories in The New Yorker in the 80s and 90s.
I think my main sticking point with it is the title story -- I couldn't really figure out why or how it was set in The Future.
Then again, I have very serious ideas about setting a story in The Future -- I feel like The Future needs to be absolutely necessary to the plot.
If this story were set in 1988, it wouldn't have made a difference at all, except that I wouldn't be thinking "wait a minute, why is this in The Future again?" every few sentences.
I feel like this is really Moore's form -- there's something about the short story that makes her writing take off.
Although Moore writes about similar themes as in her first collection, I felt that this particular collection of short stories was lacking a lot of the humour that her first collection had.
There are only 8 stories in this collection, so if you're looking for a relatively quick read (if you go by page number at least), then this might be a good one to go for.
However, not all the stories in this really stuck with me, and it probably won't be a very memorable collection for me a few months from now.
If you are the kind of person who likes 'stories' that do not have a beginning, middle and an end, you might like this collection.
They just start and stop.
This isn't a criticism as much as it is a preference.
I prefer a more traditional format.
There is no debate that Lorrie Moore writes exquisitely.
I actually wrote down a quote from one of the stories and I haven't done that since I can remember.
I thought this was keenly insightful and I don't want to lose her exact phrasing:" There are only small joys in life-the big one are too complicated to be joys when you got all through and once you realize it, it take a lot of the pressure off."
1993 notebook: a long flirtation on trains and buses with Lorrie Moore's 'Like life', wicked, funny, sad, deep, just great stories. Good place to read them too, commuting among so many different people with different plans and ambitions.
Remarkable early stories by the vaunted Moore. Her ability with language and her aptitude for changing voice according to the narrative's needs are exceptional. The well regarded story "You're Ugly, Too" has a protagonist with a distinctive ironic style that is captivating.
i read this on the train home mainly the platform is made of wooden planks on some of the partsi think i only have anagrams to read now maybebananagrams
Love. Love. Love Moore. Her writing is rich and complicated in all the right kind of ways. And her language is fresh and vivid.
I was disappointed.
I decided to read all of Moore’s work this summer, because I so enjoyed the verbal pyrotechnics of Self-Help and Anagrams.
Like Life has many of the same types of people, but in a much more minor key.
The best story is “The Jewish Hunter,” about the romance between a midwestern Jewish lawyer and a visiting poet who thinks she’s too good to be in the Midwest.
Her relationship with him, although far from perfect, is one of two very different types trying to fall in love.
The title story is a very odd science fiction tale.

full disclosure: i really like lorrie moore's books, but i can't always tell one from the other.
she is so just the facts that i am also taken aback & weirded out when there's a sex scene, & i think there's some sex in this book, if this is the one that involves an actor or something like that.
i think there is something in here about a young woman who is disasstisfied with the direction of her life & tries to take steps to spruce things up a little.
suffice to say, i like lorrie moore a lot.
Moore is amazing. She's able to weave in and out of the empty gaps of people's lives and put down markers on her pages as stories. Without naming them, she simply points out the little aches that we don't know what to call and taps you on the back and says, "There, there." Sure, it's not a cure, and certainly, awareness doesn't solve anything, and neither does a tap on the back, but it's something and that something should count; if only to show that others, too, have those same nameless gaps and aches.
she is the best. these stories' voices change too, from super modern like joe meno or ben ehrenreich to old fashioned like john cheever or ozick. here's a quote "....and left the apartment to roam the streets again, to find an open newsstand, a safe coffee shop that didn't put a maraschino cherry on the rice pudding, so that even when you picked it off its mark remained, soaked in, like blood by Walt Disney."
Read my blog post about Lorrie Moore, Self-Help, Like Life, and the University of Wisconsin. http://www.hazelfoster.com/2011/11/11...
one of the funniest bits to me from the title story:People with money would spend six dollars on a cocktail for themselves but not eighty cents toward a draft beer for a guy with a shirt like that. Rudy would return home with enough cash for one new brush, and with that new brush would paint a picture of a bunch of businessmen sodomizing farm animals. "The best thing about figure painting," he liked to say, "is deciding what everyone will wear."
Really enjoyed revisiting this collection after a few years. "You're Ugly, Too," is still Lorrie Moore at her absolute best. Also continue to love "The Jewish Hunter" and "Starving Again." The title story I still can't quite get my arms around; it's quite bizarre and resists interpretation, I think.
Do you live alone? Is your tub overflowing with sewage? How many cats do you own? Are they ill? You enjoy puns, right? Do you live above a butcher shop? Are you in love with two boys at once, but can't pick which you love more? Is someone you know very ill? Is a British boy living in your absent daughter's room? Well?
