https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11824.The_Whipping_Boy
As a piece of young adult fiction, The Whipping boy earned a Newberry Award. I'm not sure why. Yes, there are vivid descriptions and some good literary devices used, but the storyline is hardly original and the character development is trite. If you want a fun and easy read about friendship and overcoming prejudice, then perhaps you may enjoy it. But to me, The Whipping Boy does not stand out as a choice children's novel.
The point of view character is Jemmy, a whipping boy.
When the prince does something wrong, Jemmy is the one who gets whipped.
The prince, who is nicknamed Prince Brat, is frustrated and angry with Jemmy because he won't cry when whipped.
That leads to frustration for Jemmy and slapstick hilarity for readers because the prince messes up his escape plans, plans to escape the criminals and the prince.
All ends well, with the prince learning more than Jemmy, so the story is a nice variation on the prince dressing as a pauper and gaining some empathy theme.
On occasion I like to revisit past reads to see how much of them I remember and if what I loved about them then still holds up today.
See I’m thinking this read occurred around the same time frame I introduced myself to two other troublesome boys, Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn.
I must have had an interest in boys and adventures or maybe the girl adventure books weren’t as easy to find (if they even existed).
Now I’m puzzling over if there were any.
Hmm…ANYWAYStill considering this a great book after an old lady rereview, so on my fav shelf it shall stay.
This book just cracked me up! Prince Horace is the naughtiest kid around and everyone calls him Prince Brat behind his back. He knows he can get away with anything and Jemmy will have to take his whippings for him. Despite his naughtiness his life his boring and he decides to run away taking his whipping boy with him. What follows is a bunch of random adventures that become more and more exciting as the boys try to escape a couple of crooks who kidnapped them. By the end of their adventures Prince Horace is a changed boy.
Chapter book - historical fictionNewbery MedalFor grades 3-7Jemmy is Prince Brat's whipping boy, taking any punishment due to the prince, until the prince decides to run away, taking Jemmy with him and leading them into a series of adventures with notorious outlaws.This tale is told with plenty of humor and adventure, in an entertaining style that suits the content.
Prince Brat and Jemmy begin the story as contrasting characters, but develop a believable affinity as they run from castle, outlaws, soldiers and sewers.
The chapters are short and packed with action, as well as enough emotional content to make the story satisfying.
And then, one night, Prince Brat embarks on his greatest piece of mischief yet – running away.The Whipping Boy, written by Sid Fleischman, is a classic of children’s literature.
The book is in written in that way: skilled, pleasing, and simple.The king is unnamed, the kingdom and the city nameless, and the time is undefined.
The Whipping Boy is a children’s book, but like all truly excellent works for children, it can be enjoyed by adults, too.
Synopsis:Jemmy is the prince's whipping boy, a job that means he gets punished any time the prince misbehaves.
Before he can, the prince decides to run away instead, dragging Jemmy along for the ride.
At first, he can think of nothing but his opportunity to get away.
He has concerns for the prince, but only because he's worried that the King and others will think he helped the prince get kidnapped.
Over time, though, he starts to feel more empathy for the prince.I also really enjoyed the fact that eventually, Jemmy realizes all the things he would be giving up by returning to be a rat catcher in the sewers.
I really like the plot I really like the plot I really like the plot I really like the plot I really like the plot I really like the plot I really like the plot I really like the plot
"Prince Brat" is used several times throughout the book.Religious Profanity - 3 Incidents: Lawks.
Gaw is used a number of times throughout the book.Attitudes/Disobedience - 1 Incident: The Prince plays mean tricks and does not care that another boy gets his spankings for his bad behavior.
He plays all kinds of mean tricks and then doesn't care that his whipping boy gets his lashes.
But when the Prince runs away and the Whipping Boy goes with him, they run into some bandits and adventures that will change both of their hearts to kindness towards each other.**Like my reviews?
Allison was right. Bland. 😶
I somehow missed out on a whole lot of great children's literature when I was a child.
Maybe Babysitter's Club was just all I needed, lol.
As a result of this lit-ignorance, I am just now reading a bunch of we-read-this-in-school kinds of classics.
The Whipping Boy is among these.I picked this from the library with the intent of reading it for my own information.
But somehow I am reading it aloud to my kids.
They (especially J) are really loving it.
I love that J is old enough to pick up on compassion, humor, and suspense!
It's about a super annoying, spoiled, bratty prince in some castle, and he hates it there because who-knows and who-cares?, so he runs away and the Whipping Boy, who receives all of the dumb prince's punishments, goes after him and soon finds Prince Twit and plans to take him back to the kingdom, but some big hairy guy and his dumb friend come to kidnap them.
Oh, and a bear comes and wrestles the big hairy guy sometime before the end.This is a terrible book because it has a miserable plot and no climax.
There's a Prince and his whipping boy.
The whipping boy takes the punishment when the prince does bad, which he does with regularity.
Bored, the prince runs away and drags the whipping boy along as his "manservant." They encounter cutthroat highwaymen, dancing bears, a potato vendor, rat-catchers, and other things out of the realm of the prince's experience.
The characters are exactly what you would expect -- the pampered prince who seeks some real experience, the clever and independent whipping boy.
I would like this just a bit more if Fleischman did not rub our faces so thoroughly in the points he is trying to make for the kids.
This is a great read aloud. A young prince seems to be terribly spoiled, even to the point of being called Prince Brat. He decides to run off with his whipping boy and they have some great adventures- The prince makes some good changes to his behavior and he develops a good friendship with Jemmy too. Lots of new vocab in this book. It is good to show the changes in a character over time.
Great choice for reluctant readers. Quite a slight book. I know it is a hit with children who want a short read when choosing a book from their summer reading list. Good writing and a few action packed pages but not my favorite Newbery.
There was this movie we watched sometimes at my house -- Prince Brat and the Whipping Boy -- and I liked it a lot.
Some of the characters were a little different, and there were actually a bit fewer than in the movie -- including Jemmy's younger sister and Prince Horace's grandmother, which characters I missed while reading.
But overall, I found the story quite as enjoyable in the book as in the movie, and I am not the least bit sorry for reading this kids' book.
really good
After being caught by the bad guys and Prince Brat is being whipped, the girl with the dancing bear just happens to appear and come to the boys' rescue.
When Jemmy had the chance to ride off with the hot potato man, he doesn't take the opportunity but instead realizes that Prince Brat is in need and allowing him to come along is the right thing to do.
Lastly, Jemmy listening to Prince Brat's lessons well enough to know how to read and write saved them and allowed them to trick the bad guys.
The Good: A Newbery winner that kids might actually like?
At first they hate each other, but when they’re taken hostage by thieves, they have to put their differences aside to escape.This novel is only 90 pages, but the characters change a lot over the course of the story.
Was it clothes that made a prince, Jemmy wondered, just as rags made a street boy?” – The Whipping BoyThe Bad: The plot isn’t the most original.
I feel like there are a lot of bored-prince-lives-among-commoners stories in the world.
Kids would like the quick pace and slapstick humor.
I thought this book was a great way to teach a lesson through adventure.
Throughout the book you can really see the main characters developing in many different ways such as: their opinions towards each other, what's important to them and their true personalities.
This book is a great way to show children that before you judge someone sometimes you have to take a walk in their shoes because you don't know what they're going through.
I really enjoyed the illustrations in the book because at times it was worded in a way that was hard to understand what was completely going on and the pictures clarified the scene.
I'm currently reading this as a read aloud with my students. Talk about language that is not used a lot today.This is a good story, and we've had some awesome little discussions already in class.
This book was HORRIBLE! Seriously, what kind of nickname is Prince Brat? A bad one! Whoever hasn't read this book, lucky you. Whoever has, :( I'm sorry you did.
I remember listening to this book on tape as a kid and laughing uproariously. As a grownup, I would say that this book is still quality kids' adventure-humor, though perhaps not deep enough to warrant a Newbery for my taste. I don't know if there has ever been a more unlikable character than Prince Brat, although he really does grow admirably, if not realistically. Jemmy also grows, and in a more believable way. Overall, a fun romp, if not the highest-quality Newbery awarded.
A great way for kids in today’s privileged world to learn about life in the 1800’s. It’s a great story and it shows how abusive past cultures can be. Prince Horace learns to grow up and Jemmy learns that being a sewer rat with no education is not all it’s cracked up to be. Can these boys of two different classes get along- especially since Jemmy is whipped whenever Prince Brat does wrong. A great discussion starter for the 10 to 14 set.
Instead, his family has taken in an orphan boy named Jemmy, whose sole purpose in life is to receive punishments on behalf of the prince whenever Horace misbehaves.
It’s a horrible life and Jemmy longs for his freedom, which suddenly comes one day when Prince Horace decides to run away from the castle!I read this book for the first time in second grade, and one of the main reasons it appealed to me back then was because of how Prince Horace’s unfair arrangement was laid bare from the beginning.
Imagine, being punished for doing absolutely nothing wrong…or even worse, having someone intentionally do something wrong in order to get you in trouble!
1987 John Newberry Medal  - I don’t know how this book won a Newberry. Yeah, the writing is okay, but it all feels too familiar; tales like this have been around for hundreds of years, so this isn’t exactly ground breaking literature. 2.5 stars.
A grand adventure. A book about true friendship
This was a cute, short read with a great story line. Highly recommend it for those lazy afternoons!
Love this one. Classic from childhood. It's a super funny story. I hope my kids like it as much as me.
This book was terrible the story wasn't interesting at all and sort of didn't make sense
