https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38395454-time-s-convert
A little disappointing, if I'm honest.
I was happy to read it, and it was nice to revisit familiar characters, and to get a deeper look into Marcus's past, but the whole 400 pages felt meandering and slightly pointless.
The last 100 pages seemed rushed, though the conclusion was satisfying at least.
I hope if Harkness decides to return to this world in the future that she can tighten up the stories and imbue them with a little more of the magic that was so integral to the first three books.
I've been so anxious to read Gallowglass's story (which Harkness, bless her forever, is writing next), that I viewed Time's Convert as somewhat of a placeholder.
A way to bide my time until whenever Gallowglass's book arrives.But I should have known better, as Marcus's story is just as worthy of being told.
But Time's Convert largely devotes itself to Marcus's backstory during the Revolutionary War and his present day relationship with Phoebe who has decided to be reborn as a vampire.Matthew and Diana's relationship served as a great contrast to Phoebe and Marcus.
MARK YOUR CALENDARS EVERYONE! Sep. 18th 2018 is THE DAY :)I am super stoked for this book. All Souls Trilogy is my all time favorite paranormal series and I cannot wait to get my hands on Marcus's story!Info about other books from All Souls world:"For those of you wondering, THE SERPENT'S MIRROR (Matthew's life under Henry VIII and Elizabeth I), a book on Gallowglass, and whoever else happens to stop by and tell me their tale will follow in the future...definitely NOT in 2018." - from Deborah Harkness's Facebook

The All Souls Trilogy told the story of Diana and Matthew on their quest to solving the mystery behind Ashmole 782.
The All Souls trilogy was filled with beautifully descriptive writings that captured the scenes and characters so well but everything in Time's Convert felt very simple.
According to someone I spoke to on the book, Deborah said in an interview that the writing would be different because Marcus is 24 years old.
I actually find it difficult how Deborah can carve a trilogy out of this because Time's Convert just purely feels like an after thought.
I think it's safe to call this one of my highly-anticipated reads of 2018! I mean, hello...Marcus!!!!
That's how I feel about this book.
It wasn't bad but it just seems like a totally unnecessary interlude.
I wish Harkness had either gone totally in the past to explore a side character's life or had waited until the twins were grown up enough to actually add something new to the mix.
I felt like I was in Castle Glower.
I really did enjoy parts of the book but I still feel like I wish I could go back and unread this book so it wouldn't be a part of the series for me.
Those are my least favorite types of series; I prefer series that engage readers in character development and new adventures rather than piecemeal tales.
This book has three partial stories, none of which are really very rewarding by book’s end.
Phoebe becomes a vampire, Marcus reveals his human past and very early vampire years and Matthew and Diana’s twins begin to develop real personalities.
The Phoebe/Marcus story could have been a good book or the twins could have been a good book but this was not enough anything to be a really good story.
I found Marcus' flashback chapters kinda boring but overall I really enjoyed being back in this world with all the characters.
3.5-4 starsI finished this several days ago, but I'm so behind, I didn't get to mark it until now...and I don't remember much anymore. I just know that it was great to be back in this world, I wasn't as invested in Marcus and Phoebe going into this and not much that happened in this book changed that. But the fact that Matthew and Diana had a rather large role helped to make this a mostly enjoyable read.
I LOVE the All Souls trilogy. The books are exciting, romantic, erudite, mysterious, and full of amazing characters, history, and far-off places. I had high hopes and expectations for this book, but I found (aside from history) it lacked all of the original books’ strengths. Where are the villains? The mystery? The suspense? The conflict? The plot? Hell - where even is the romance? While it was nice to spend time in this world again, I do not recommend this book to anyone who isn’t already a huge fan of the first three books. Disappointed.
A lovely sojourn with old friends. Coffee with history and easter eggs, allusions, as a tasty accompaniment. A voice I love to hear speaking , a clear voice speaks in her writing. I walked into this book and literally picked up where I had left them, in my mind. Writer acumen. So fervently glad that her characters, her friends, have stories to tell. Enjoy!
Positively brilliant. A richly woven story with huge magical heart. Loved it. Full review to follow.
I have now discovered that having read the Trilogy 4 or so years ago and not having it fresh in my mind is a large problem.
It started on page one when I couldn't remember who the hell Phoebe is.
The problem is I don't really care about the characters because I don't really remember who they are and there is no suspense or action occuring in the story.
My friend went back and re-read The Book of Life in order to get fully reoriented.
She does remember Phoebe and does care about the characters.
Time’s Convert may not have been the book I was originally anticipating in the universe, but I was more than happy to dive into it.I would happily drown in any story set in this universe, but with Marcus being a character I adored in the original trilogy I was perfectly content to read more about him – both his past and the present.
There wasn’t quite the level of action in this book that there was in the original trilogy, but there were plenty of elements to enjoy.I admit, things were a bit slow in place, there were times when things did not seem to be moving at the anticipated rate.
To say that I am excited for this book is an understatement.
I read the first book, A Discovery of Witches, in 2011 and surprised myself by completely loving the story of the witch Diana Bishop, who researches alchemy at the Bodleian Library and falls hard for a centuries-old vampire, Matthew de Clermont.
Although Time’s Convert is likely intended to stand alone, I felt it could do with a dramatis personae at the start as I’d forgotten who many of the minor characters were.Diana and Matthew are still major characters, though not at the heart of the book.
Time’s Convert is most like Shadow of Night, the second book of the series and my least favorite because it spends so much time in 1590s England.
2 stars - Meh. Just ok.Unlike the majority of Goodreads readers, I found the author’s All Soul’s Trilogy to be underwhelming and overrated, despite having a plot synopsis that rang several of my trigger bells.
I picked this one up under the impression that it is a stand alone novel.
Newsflash for authors and publishers - readers are incredibly over this trope!
However, Harkness and I are simply not a great fit for one another, and I do not intend to pick up another novel by her.-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: You’ll be wanting to ripen a bit more before you take me on.
A quarter of the way into the book, my excitement ended.The book felt like it was written by someone else, who didn't know the character backstories at all.
There are references to places, people, situations and conversations mentioned in this book that occurred in the previous trilogy that had no purpose in this story.The book is supposed to be about Marcus and is told in the third person.
Every character in the book is in fact told in third person except one, Diana.
The All Souls Trilogy was in my "Would Read Again" bookshelf, prior to reading this book.
So getting the chance to read Time Convert early made my summer.
If you are familiar with the previous trilogy you have already been introduced to Marcus.A vampire that was sired by Matthew during the Revoluntary War. Time Convert is being marketed as his story but as I read it did not feel like it truly was not like how the original trilogy was Diana's.
Time Convert is told from three perspectives.
But those chapters are much fewer from what one would think there would be in Marcus focus book.
If you are a big fan of the All Souls Trilogy then this book is a most read.

A wonderful read for sure.
This book went deep into history (fictionalizing it much like the Outlander series, not story but meshing history with fiction).
Having read the authors other books, I expected as much.
I was very much invested in the main characters and their lives.
I also appreciated former characters being included and the world building of a vampire from start to finish.The only element that was missing that was in the previous books was that sense of danger.
I never really got that edge of your seat feel.
A well written book rich in character and story.
This was my first introduction to Deborah Harkness’ world of the supernatural and despite my naïveté to the greater story that I missed by skipping the All Souls Trilogy before beginning this book, I do feel it functions well as a stand alone story.
The shared narration of three very unlike characters did give the book a bit of a jagged feel as far as the flow of the plot went.
Perhaps after I’ve completed them, I can come back and find a greater appreciation for this book’s place in what I can only hope will become a classic.
BE STILL MY BEATING HEART read it for Le Bébé the cutie pie revolutionist !!!!
For anyone that little bit obsessed with A Discovery of Witches, Time’s Convert is an essential read.
I wanted that little bit more of Diana, Matthew and the world of Deborah Harkness.
Whether you appreciate it or not, will depend on how you much you like Marcus and the domestic life of the Clermont-Bishops.
Matthew and Diana are raising children, who have a peculiar mix of talents.This is very much a standalone about Matthew’s son that he sired, Marcus.
Siring for the uninitiated simply means that Matthew made Marcus into a vampire.
Phoebe wants to become a vampire, to share her eternity with Marcus.
Family squabbles, annoying relatives and one of my least favorite themes in books: Description of wartime. Phoebe's drawn out transformation into vampirism didn't hold much appeal either. I'm so disappointed. *Sigh* Runding up to 3 stars for old times sakes.
3.5 stars I really enjoyed seeing Marcus's backstory and Phoebe's transition to vampire life, but I could have done without Mathew's and Diana's kid problems. I know, probably unpopular opinion, but it needed to be said.
I laughed at how interested Diana was in Marcus's past when she realized his formative years were among the American Revolution.
It was fun for Matthew to make her realize that Marcus wouldn't remember things like she wanted him to.Surprisingly Phoebe did a great job in her transition.
I think everyone was waiting for her to fail and fail big, but she only had a few of the normal issues, a good thing because Marcus was going nuts not having contact with her.The other far more interesting part of this book were Diana and Matthew's kids, who are a handful, challenging their parents at every turn.
This meandered a good bit.
This is superficially the story of Phoebe's rebirth as a vampire.
Mostly it is the back story of Marcus.
I suspect I'm not the only one who wishes there had been more of the kids and Diana and maybe a bit less of Marcus?
There were three fairly distinct threads (couldn't resist, not apologizing) to the story and they didn't really mesh well so the transitions were a bit jarring.
I'm a bit sorry I rushed to buy it rather than check it out for free from the library.
It just wasn't nearly as good as the trilogy.
