https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87720.Awakening_to_Let
Maybe 3 stars. This 'interlude' is from the perspective of Jon as a young boy. I wish I had grown up with only a few hours of lessons from a visiting Mademoiselle and then the freedom to play the rest of the day!
Maybe 3½ stars. This 'interlude' is from the perspective of Jon as a young boy. I wish I had grown up with only a few hours of lessons from a visiting Mademoiselle and then the freedom to play the rest of the day!
Considering that hundreds if not thousands have previously commented on Galsworthy's novels regarding this upper and middle class family in England during the late 19th and early 20th century, I write this as a personal note to praise this final volume of the first Forsyte Saga series.
It is a story of the essence of life, the joy of living and the contemplation of death, the yearning for love and the tragedy when it is lost, the acceptance of pain and its release following the passage of time.
Thoughtful readers will picture themselves as they absorb the pages of Galsworthy's writing.
Jon knows nothing of the history, and his blissful life is carried on the wings of imagination where he plays out every possible scenario from every book he reads, so his half sister Holly returning with her husband and second cousin Val from South Africa (where they married during Boer war and stayed to raise horses) finds him painted blue head to toe, playing by himself in the garden.Tuesday, September 17, 2013.................................................................................................................................................To Let:-To Let goes on with lives of the various families, and chiefly of young Jolyon and his now wife Irene and their home at Robin Hill, with his other children and their various cousins and uncles being part of the story.
Jon knows nothing of the history, and his blissful life is carried on the wings of imagination where he plays out every possible scenario from every book he reads, so his half sister Holly returning with her husband and second cousin Val from South Africa (where they married during Boer war and stayed to raise horses) finds him painted blue head to toe, playing by himself in the garden.Tuesday, September 17, 2013.................................................................................................................................................To Let:-To Let goes on with lives of the various families, and chiefly of young Jolyon and his now wife Irene and their home at Robin Hill, with his other children and their various cousins and uncles being part of the story.
Jon knows nothing of the history, and his blissful life is carried on the wings of imagination where he plays out every possible scenario from every book he reads, so his half sister Holly returning with her husband and second cousin Val from South Africa (where they married during Boer war and stayed to raise horses) finds him painted blue head to toe, playing by himself in the garden.Tuesday, September 17, 2013.................................................................................................................................................To Let:-To Let goes on with lives of the various families, and chiefly of young Jolyon and his now wife Irene and their home at Robin Hill, with his other children and their various cousins and uncles being part of the story.
The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008.................................................................To Let goes on with lives of the various families, and chiefly of young Jolyon and his now wife Irene and their home at Robin Hill, with his other children and their various cousins and uncles being part of the story.
That said, the third installment of the Forsyte saga, To Let, continues the tale of despair and desolation that comes from a failed marriage that went horribly wrong.
In the novel, Soames' and Irene's children must face the truth of their parents' disastrous marriage, something kept secret from them throughout their young lives until the truth comes out when they fall in love with each other.
I couldn't fathom why neither Soames nor Irene would seek to keep their secret from their adult children, when so many others around them knew the truth.
Beginning with the chance meeting of Soames's daughter, Fleur, and Jon, son of Irene and young Jolyon, their romance unfolds over the summer, only to founder inevitably on the rocky remnants of their parent's troubled entanglement.
With the role of both Montagues and Capulets being taken by the estranged branches of the Forsyte family, Galsworthy sketches the doomed romance of Jon and Fleur sensitively and with great sympathy, even as his updates on the other members of the family provide wry commentary on developments in society at large.By story's end young Jolyon is dead, the family secret is out, and Jon understands the choice he has to make.
So, now Jolyon (the younger) and Irene (Soames' ex) are married and have a son, Jon. Soames and his wife Annette have a daughter, Fleur.Hijinks ensue.Yeah, like you didn't see that coming.
So obviously Fleur and Jon fall in love.
But the past...oh the past.Most of this book is people not telling Jon and Fleur something that a quick trip to your local public records would have cleared up.
Whereas in the miniseries, Fleur and Jon broke up so many times I wanted to scream at them....LET IT GO, in the book, they break up, we're done and ...yeah, really, we're done.Great series.
This book is amazing.
The imagery throughout is wonderful.
The characters are perfect.
I don't think any other book I've ever read has done better at creating such deep, believable, consistent, interesting characters.
(Perhaps Winnie-the-Pooh?
Even some of those are caricatures.
I can't think of any others that come close.)One thing about this series that I can't stop thinking about is how similar their era seems to ours, only ninety years earlier.
In this book the author seems to throw in a little philosophizing via his pseudo-self, young Jolyon, that I don't agree with.
But I think that's my only complaint about this book, and it's not a big one.
The previous parts of the saga balanced the romantic thread with observations of the life of the English higher middle class.
The social aspect is marginal, and the focus is set on quite typical love story between young offspring of two feuding branches of Forsyte family.
Here we find other standard melodramatic instruments: terrible deed from the past and reluctance to talk about it, imperfect information of young heroes, inner dialogues on what others feel or think.
In consequence, "To let" is the worst part of the saga, but nevertheless worth your time as a recapitulation.
The last volume in the Forsyte saga. I loved this quote:"He didn't know about the French, but there was not much real harm in English people except their teeth and their taste, which was certainly deplorable."
I don't know...it has some good soap opera parts but the characters are rather simplistic and ill-drawn at times. The woman we're supposed to be crazy about, I found rather insufferable.
"Appreciation of beauty and longing for possession are not love."
A beautiful end to the Forsyte saga, and to the Forsyte family, as a up-and-coming, possessive middle class.
