https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48093.The_Dark_Wind
But to Chee's Navajo mind, the idea of punishing them would be as insane as the original act.
I have absolutely no idea what happened to Mary Landon, Chee's girlfriend from the last novel.
This is 1982, two years after the last book.The only other really interesting part of the book besides Chee explaining how revenge is a strange and foreign idea, is when our friend Jim Chee is handcuffed and roughed up by a corrupt DEA agent.Johnson struck Chee across the face, a stinging, back-handed blow...Chee's nose hurt.
Jim Chew, a rookie Navajo tribal policeman is assigned to find who is damaging a windmill to supply water to the Hopi Indians.
He is staking out the windmill when he witnessed a plane crashing landing in a nearby arroyo.
He is first to reach the plane and finds a dead man shot in the middle of the road.
He reports the accident and learns that the plane is carrying drugs.
The FBI accused him of removing the drugs.
The information on the customs of the Navajo and Hopi Indians is extremely interesting.
Elements of a great Leaphorn & Chee book:1.
Memorable characters, some of whom you feel like you know very well - especially Leaphorn & Chee themselves - and their relationship to other recurring characters, in particular their boss, Largo, and their significant others3.
The rich cultural heritage of the Navajos (and other 4 Corners area tribal peoples) integrated into the story4.
An intriguing mystery, the solving of which requires our protagonist to use his tracking skills, his powers of deduction, and his understanding of people Numbers 1, 3, and 4 were very well represented in this story.
However, there was no Leaphorn!!??
Living in New Mexico and being a mystery lover and not reading Tony Hillerman is probably some sort of sin.
THE DARK WIND is my initiation into the mystery series revolving around Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn.The setting made this book for me.
But it was the New Mexico setting filled with rich descriptions that blanketed nearly every page, cloaking the world in a warm afghan that filled my world with richness and color.The Indian tribes were described in detail and nearly became characters of their own, and this was done with a careful hand.
So, while on a recent trip to the Southwest, I thought it was a perfect time to read a few Tony Hillerman books.
I found the experience to be enhanced when Hillerman was describing the topography and I would look up from the book and see those same mountains or town.
In this fifth book in the Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee series a corpse is discovered that has had the palms of its hands and the soles of the feet removed.
It's obvious to Captain Joe Leaphorn and Lt. Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police that a dark wind is blowing through their tribal lands and they need to uncover the cause.
Have never read any Tony Hillerman books before. Now having visited Arizona, and some of the areas Tony writes about , had to check him out. Really good read. loved the characters, especially Jim Chee. Book only 300 pages reads super fast and very difficult to put down. I loved it. Will be reading several more. I brought 7 other of his books home from Arizona. If you've never read Hillerman, what are you waiting for ??????
Admittedly, I listened to this book, which may have colored my response to it.
On the other hand, I have difficulty with books where seemingly unrelated plot-lines all merge together in the end or never get tied up.
I know there's a trend in some camps to denigrate writers who write about an ethnicity to which they do not belong.
It seems to me Hillerman was diligent in his research, and to suggest that to write about something you must have experienced it yourself, would just about destroy all literature.In the end, pretty good, but not one of my Hillerman favorites.
Finished reading: December 10th 2014  "Then, as he thought it through all the way, through from the east, the south, the west, and the north, and back to the east again, just as his uncle had taught him, he saw that it might help. Everything must have a reason. Nothing was done without a cause." (view spoiler)[It's not the first time I read a book by Tony Hillerman. I read Hunting Badger last year and I remember enjoying the Native American elements in that novel. The Dark Wind is no exception
The Dark Wind is no exception; the same Native American elements makes this novel stand out from other treasure hunt stories.
And exactly that cultural information makes this novel worth reading.Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police has been transferred to a new area just as things get complicated.
But they get to him anyway, and soon Chee is not only determined to figure out what really happened, but also trying not to get killed in the process...The Dark Wind was an interesting read full of cultural references, and these Native American elements made up for most of the flaws.
But all in all Hillerman managed to write an entertaining novel that is worth reading, especially if you are interested in the Native American culture.
Tony Hillerman passed away in October of 2008. His 18 books in his Navajo series have won numerous award and have earned Mr Hillerman "Friend of the Navajo" status. As you read Hillerman I suggest you keep a notebook handy something I will do so as I read my next novel. His native American characters share a depth of cultural information worth remembering. Dark wind is Jim Chee at his best. Wind mills,holy ground, rain, Navajos, Hopis, theft, murder, plane crash, drugs and floods. This like other Jim Chee stories is over too soon.
A definite step up from the first Chee novel, largely because the tribal politics and beliefs are more prominent, but also because the author has gotten more comfortable with the character. Still, Chee is not an equal to Leaphorn, but the supporting cast make up for that lack.As usual, the pacing is methodical, the prose distant and unadorned, and the plot twisty. It's good stuff, and deserving of it's acclaim, but not terribly engaging. The series has grown on me, but it will be a while before I jump back in.
This is more of a 2.5 for me. So far I'm not overly enthusiastic about Chee as a character. I know he develops more as the series goes on but his elastic sense of right and wrong bothers me. Probably the most genuine part was his outrage at the way he was mistreated by the DEA people. I found the mystery confusing although his red herrings were very well done. I'm going to keep on reading since I know how much I enjoyed future titles. If I didn't have that knowledge, I'd likely stop here.
This book focused mainly on Chee, with a comment that Leaphorn is in DC testifying in another case.
Mr. Hillerman's descriptions of the Black Mesa, the Wepo Wash and the surrounding country are very detailed and make you feel as if you are there.
He infuses the books with descriptions of Navajo and Hopi traditions, and explores how they affect the actions of the characters.
I also like the fact that Chee does not immediately solve the mystery, and following along on his discoveries and thought processes are part of what make these books so interesting and engrossing.
quote from pages 147 - 148 "There was no reason to kill him," she said.
You understand that?" "Not exactly," Chee said.
"Do you understand 'An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth'?" "I've heard it," Chee said.
"Don't you believe in justice?
Don't you believe that things need to be evened up?" Chee shrugged.
"Why not?" he said.
One avoided such persons, and worried about them, and was pleased if they were cured of this temporary insanity and returned again to hozro.
But to Chee's Navajo mine, the idea of punishing them would be as insane as the original act.
I'm hooked. I can't stop reading books in this series of mysteries set in the Navajo Tribal Nation. Getting good cultural insights while second guessing a good old-fashioned murder. So much more fun than dry text just giving the facts about the land and the people who live in a sun-burned landscape without any emotional impact. I'm afraid I will end up reading all of the books in the series and forget about what ever else needs to be done.
Sergeant Jim Chee is working a new territory and has three investigations working. Someone has been sabotaging a water windmill on tribal lands, some pawned silver jewelry has been stolen from a trading post and a plane crash and murders of suspected drug dealers very near where he had been staking our the windmill. Things come to ahead as all the cases interconnect.
Good Jim Chee mystery with some humor, Navajo and Hopi culture, and just enough hints to make you feel that you are solving the crime just a second before Chee. Carl got a little too engrossed at the end and went through a red light. Good thing we were in a small town in the off season where I've seldom seen a police car on the road.
3.5 starsI liked it...and it was a short, clean read. I learned a little about Navaho and Hopi cultures,the Arizona desert, and the relationship & responsibilities between these 2 groups and federal law enforcement agencies, specifically the DEA. Good humo and interesting mystery solved by the reader moments before it is solved by Che, the main character. audio version is well done.
This is a great book with many unique twists and turns and the great thing is it is about an American Indian lawman..I believe it should be made into a movie...
I'm a Tony Hillerman fan. Love learning about the Navaho culture. His mysteries are catching without being graphic.
The thriller plot, involving suitcases of cocaine, officious DEA agents, is nothing special.
Hillerman’s insertion of the gorgeous Arizona terrain, the cultural interaction of the Navajos and the Hopis, and Detective Chee’s quest for order and stability in a universe that keeps him perpetually off balance is very special.
Like all of Hillerman’s better mysteries, it’s unexpectedly warm, in a genre that can be chilly or bitter.
The only thing missing here is Chee’s lousy luck in women, and that’s a plus.Enough said.
It’s time for me to plan my trip to the Navajo Res.
I love these books. Hillerman always delivered a good mystery with a great twist. I hardly ever see it coming, which is rare for me these days and I appreciate the thrill. And he paints such an interesting picture of the native southwest cultures. If you listen to the audio version, George Guidall is pure gold.
I always enjoy these books for the same reasons. cultural details, descriptions of the setting, and the way the main character calmly proceeds to fit every piece into place.
Everything that fans of Hillerman would want: Beautiful descriptions of the Arizona and New Mexico landscape; the intrigue of mystery; and the intricacies of Navajo and Hopi traditions. Hillerman's books show us how the world looks through, at least in this case, Jimmy Chee's eyes. I love Chee's curiosity about the world and his need to find the pattern and reason behind the happenings of the world.
Another decent entry in this very good Western-style procedural series, with the Native mythology/beliefs giving a fascinating foundation.
Tony Hillerman came to me as recommended reading by some Native =Americans.
I confessed I had not read any native american texts and that my knowledge of the Indian in US fiction started with Uncas in the Last of the Mohicans and ended with The Chief in Cuckoos Nest.
Chee's Navajo background allows him to see solutions that his white colleagues and FBI associates do not see at all.
I enjoyed how Native American culture is used as a positive force in the novel and I enjoyed the novel as a piece of detective fiction too.
In The Dark Wind, Jim Chee is handed three cases, which all become entwined with a fourth. Jim Chee, Navajo cop engages others to help. The Hopi culture, well researched by Tony Hillerman, is preeminent here. The reader gains a cultural perspective, while enjoying a mystery (or three, or four). The bad guy characters aren't too developed, but that's not the point. All the threads came together at the end and the nefarious characters are collared.
After the government took this piece of land from the Navajos, they constructed eight windmills to pump water for its new inhabitants.
Jim Chee, newly assigned to this district and not quite accepted by the locals and unsure of his new captain's opinion of him yet, is assigned three cases: 1) stop and catch who is vandalizing the windmill 2) Catch the burglar of the Burnt Springs Trading Post 3) Identify a John Doe murder victim that appears to have been ritually mutilated.
We know Chee can't quite leave it alone.
"The Dark Wind" is the 5th novel in Tony Hillerman's "Leaphorn & Chee" series.
It's also the 2nd of the pure Jim Chee novels.
One of the interesting themes brought up in the book is Hillerman's assertion that the Navajo don't really understand the concept of vengeance or revenge.
It's odd, since in every book so far, either Joe Leaphorn or Jim Chee has specifically ensured that what goes around, comes around.
I rate it at a Very Good 4 stars out of 5.Hillerman's "Leaphorn & Chee" novels are:1.
The Ghostway (Jim Chee Novels)7.
"A corpse whose palms and soles have been "scalped" is only the first in a series of disturbing clues." And so begins "The Dark Wind," the fifth in Tony Hillerman's Navajo Mystery series and the second of the books featuring Jim Chee without his mentor Joe Leaphorn.
Hillerman's ability to create believable local color helps capture the reader's interest."The Dark Wind" reveals our protagonist Sgt. Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police who is beset by an array of problems: a plane crash, murders, drugs, vandalized windmills, floods, rains, holy grounds, Navajos, and Hopis.
Chee is out on a stakeout, watching a new windmill that has twice been vandalized to try to catch the culprit in the act, when he witnesses a plane crash not far away.
Chee is supposed to just drop that case and concentrate on finding the windmill vandals, and then a body appears on the scene, obviously dead for quite some time.
Of course the cases all eventually tie together as Chee bends and twists the rules and follows the clues while disobeying orders to find the solution.Atmospheric and educational, mystical and steeped in Navajo and Hopi tradition, this series is wonderfully read by George Guidall, whom I would happily listen to reciting the phone book.
