https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6831877-the-tables-of-the-law

Pharaoh’s daughter sends young Moses to a good Hebrew family to be raised but later she takes him back and educates him as an Egyptian, though the boy chafes at this and eventually returns to his father’s people.
Mann is ever ambiguous about who Yahweh is – a chimaera of Moses’ imagination or a deity working through him.What follows is the rest of “Exodus” up to the point where Moses brings the Ten Commandments down from the mountain.
When I emerged from the library on New Years' day, it was with a book whose blurb was filled with ravishing praise of this retelling of an oft-repeated Biblical story, while on the front cover of the monolithic papyrus slab in my hands was inscribed the name of Thomas Mann.
If it weren't for the cover, the book could very well have passed off as the handiwork of anyone with a rudimentary grasp of the Old Testament, say a bored housewife who doubles up as a Sunday School teacher come Sabbath.
La historia de Moisés a los ojos de Thomas Mann . El relato bíblico humanizado alejado en cierto modo de la divino pero siempre bajo la pluma de un creyente.

De a környező zajhangok sem voltak oly nagyszámúak, alig húsz volt belőlük; és ha az ember jeleket kölcsönzött nekik, melyek sziszegésre és pisszegésre, zummogásra és brummogásra, csattanásra és pattanásra szólítottak fel közmegegyezés szerint, akkor az alaphangok megtaka-rításával, melyek önként adódtak belőlük, szavakká és a dolgok képeivé lehetett őket össze-fűzni, tetszés szerint bármivé, ami csak létezett, nemcsak saját vérségének nyelvén, hanem minden nyelveken - még egyiptomi és babiloni nyelven is lehetett velük írni.*- Engedd megújítanom a táblákat - mondta - hogy levigyem az emberekhez rövidre fogott törvényedet.
The weirdness of the Moses story is on display in this little 1943 novella by the great German writer Thomas Mann.
Mann takes the gaps in the narrative and fills them out with a plausible story of a secular movement.
Why, inventing Hebrew so he can impose his civilizing law on the slaves.
For if you were right there with them and were truly one of them, you would not be able to see them as they are…” As Michael Wood says in the afterwards, Moses “was the man who invented the idea of reinvention.” Like Freud’s Moses and Monotheism, Mann starkly alters the way we understand Moses.
Between Mann's brevity, levels of irony, leitmotif and an attitude that includes "and thus it happened, more or less," plus his portrayal of Moses as a bit of a Bernie Sanders character (who knew?), it might be easy to dismiss this response to Hitler's ranting against Judaism and Christianity as minor work.
Yet all of the above, and more, make the reader ponder, of course, about much more than the Ten Commandments that Moses writes, then re-writes in this short history course.
There is Nietzsche here, plus Freud, the Old Testament and Dostoyevsky.
In just over 100 pages.
Contro il disprezzo della morale.Mann volge lo sguardo a tempi lontani, primigeni, frugando l’Antico Testamento alla ricerca di buoni valori in grado di contrastare le aberrazioni naziste del suo presente.Senza dubbio un'opera minore, da leggere soffocando ogni lecito pregiudizio sul tema. O forse no. Io, d’altro canto, ho preferito percorrerla godendo di ogni lordura ipocrita che già si annidava all’alba dell’alleanza tra uomo e Dio.
The story of Moses leading the Jews out of Egypt and delivering the Ten Commandments.
You are a wonderful creation. You know more than you think you know, just as you know less than you want to know. Hey hey, be noticed, mankind are a very small peace of the puzzle called life.
Mooses ja tema tegemised: Thomas Mann viib laste piiblilood täiesti uuele tasemele.
No era la que pensaba y a pesar del interesante constraste Bíblico, aburrido.
As modern takes go, better than "The Amazing Spider-Man" but well below "Batman Begins." Grim and gritty.
A very clever, different view of the story of Moses, completely stripped bare of all supernatural aspects.
This retelling of the story of Moses was written for a volume of fiction about the 10 Commandments published during World War II.
I can't say it every really engrossed me; although, it did make me feel it was time to revisit the book of Exodus.
More than once Mann has surprised me, and what starts out as slow-going is by the end so engrossing that by the end the slow parts make sense and the workers a whole seems perfect, that happened with the "Die vertauschete Köpfe," the story he wrote before this, but that never transformation never occurred as I read this.
