https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19417.Absolutely_Normal_Chaos
This is my first time to read a novel written by Sharon Creech; I've read two poetry books of her last month, and those made me curious if her novels are also good. I can't imagine that I had read this till 3 in the morning just to finished reading this; and it's really worth it! I'm now looking forward to reading some of her other novels such as Walk Two Moons and Bloomability in the future.
Oh, Alpha Omega! Oh, King of Kings! I enjoyed reading this book :D! It's written as a journal of a 13 years old girl. The journal was supposed to be an assignment for her summer vacation, turn out that the girl--Mary Lou Finney--was really into writing in her journal. She filled up six little blue books. She wrote about her family, her weird cousin--Carl Ray--, her best friend, her first boy friend, and about Homer's Odyssey--the book she picked out from her summer reading list--.Girls, you should read it... It's definitely better than those teen-lits :D.
I was in a book store and the only books I was seeing were historical fiction books; and personally, I hate historical fiction. Then I saw this book on the shelf and Absolutely fell in love!
I am reading a book called Absolutely Normal Chaos.
This book is about a girl named Mary Lou Finney.
She tells us about her summer (she is telling her journal this) sometimes she is also living the events she talks about.
She has a friend named Beth Ann who is using her Mary Lou's cousin (Carl Ray) to make Beth Ann's boyfriend jealous and to make him get back together with her.
So she is living a life with so much going on: CHAOS!
I like this book because so much is happening while she is trying to have a normal summer!
Reread this book for the third time. It's definitely my favorite middle-grade novel of all time. The summer and journaling aspects of it really inspired me to make the most out of this summer and keep a journal! The characters are all great, and I admit I did laugh out loud a couple times. Even though the twists weren't really twists for me, I loved it. It just made me a bit nostalgic for simpler times of childhood! This is a must-read for people of all ages!
Absolutely Normal Chaos is a lightly-styled novel, with a deeper message about family and belonging.
This is most obvious in the case of Carl Ray, who is represented in an ever-changing manner throughout the book.Sharon Creech has a capable writing style and Absolutely Normal Chaos was an easy enough book to read and keep reading, but I'm afraid I came away from it with no real feelings about her universe or the events the characters were involved in.
I didn't care enough about any of the characters to feel any emotion for their disappointments and successes, which meant that I read the novel on a very surface level.
A delightful read. I loved the main character’s voice as she relayed her experiences over the summer in her journal. Sharon Creech has a gift for writing believable, relatable characters.
This companion book to "Walk Two Moons" follows one of the minor characters from that book, Mary Lou Finney, as she navigates the pitfalls of family, friends, and boyfriends during the summer between seventh and eighth grade.
All of Mary Lou's thoughts and experiences are recorded in the journal that she has been required to keep for her English class.Creech has done a wonderful job of capturing the young teen-age voice of Mary Lou as she experiments with writing dialogue and taking notes on her assigned summer reading (Homer's The Odyssey) in addition to recording her own personal experiences.
What starts out as an English class requirement turns into a way that Mary Lou can record, reflect, and react to the important details of her own life.
Mary Lou starts out as being pretty easy to understand, but quickly her life begins to turn itself upside down as her cousin comes looking for a job and winds up living in her house, her best friend becomes almost impossible to talk to, her seemingly healthy neighbor just drops dead one day, and she meets a boy named Alex Cheevey, who soon becomes her first love.
As Mary Lou begins to get more and more wrapped up in her cousin's life and the real reason he came to live with her and her family that summer, and the more she begins to learn to treasure human life and the finality of death, the more confusing everything seems to become.
And she doesn’t like her cousin Carl Ray. When he comes to visit, and all he does is sit around and say “yup” a lot, she gets completely fed up.
But Mr. Furtz and Alex Cheevey come on the scene.
Mr. Furtz offers Carl Ray a job and dies soon after.
Alex gets a gigantic crush on Mary Lou and eventually becomes her first kiss (which, thankfully, does not taste like chicken).
Mary Lou begins to see Carl Ray as a Telemachus, searching for his father and the truth, trying to find a place for himself.
The title pretty much says it all.Mary Lou Finney, a character seen in "Walk Two Moons," narrates this book completely through her summer journal, and ends up having more fun with the project than she ever expected.
And a crazier summer than she ever expected.Between a bunch of rambunctious siblings, having to read "The Odyssey" (which Mary Lou questions throughout in hilarious fashion) over summer, a blossoming crush on her neighbor Alex, and her very odd cousin Carl Ray staying with them, Mary Lou can't see how she's ever going to enjoy her vacation.
I shelved this as a contemporary read, but it may be 'historical' in that there is no reference to computers, cell phones, or the internet, all of which are so central to the lives of today's kids. I also suspect that young readers will be able to identify with the characters better than I did. The angst! The drama!Many references to The Odyssey.
one of my very favourites.
A totally cute book written as a diary of a teenager in a crazy family. Now I need to read Walk Two Moons.
This book was really great. I was so happy at the end when Carl Ray woke up- I was so worried he was going to die.
Wonderful middle school book. Creech has a genius for kids stories. My 13 year old daughter read this book out loud to me and I enjoyed so much hearing it in her voice.
This book, while having some funny parts, teaches 2 major lessons, don't judge a book by it's cover, and, you never realize what you have until it's gone.
I used to love Sharon Creech's books as a kid, and I still hold a reverent place for them in my heart now, but Absolutely Normal Chaos seems to not hold up as much as some of the other books do—in fact, I was never as enthralled by this book as I was by Creech's other books, like the award-winning Walk Two Moons or Chasing Redbird.
A quick read, I think Absolutely Normal Chaos was supposed to be a spin-off of Creech's other stories and characters to keep extending the world she created, but this story just doesn't hold up after all these years.
I liked this book because the book was fun to read and the whole story is really funny.
The central idea of this book is that there will always be some challenges that you will face, but you that will never stop you from going forward.
What I liked about the book is that it's really funny and interesting knowing that many thing s has happened to the character through the summer.
What I didn't like about this book is that the there isn't much to know about the different characters, but it was still good.
I recommend this book to a friend and to someone who likes to read funny books.
I haven't read a Sharon Creech novel in a while. She is one of my favorite authors. Her characters' voices are so distinct and authentic. This particular book reads like a diary. The story meanders through the reflections of a 13-year-old girl during her summer vacation. And while it isn't action-packed and definitely felt dated at times, the conclusions and ramblings of Mary Lou just make me laugh and think back to what I was like when I was 13. Sharon Creech always brings it home for me.
I guess no other Creech book can stand next to Walk Two Moons! I skimmed through most of this, just to see if it got more interesting. Sadly, no. It is just a book for fans and a money maker- Creech obviously hoped fans would want more of the journal. Sadly, it's not worth the time. I will allow my kids to read it if they are interested, but there isn't much value in the book.
I really enjoyed this book. While I was reading I couldn't take my eyes off of it. I couldn't say there was anything I didn't like about probably that I wish it was longer. Something I loved about it though was that her life was really relatable. It was also easy to read so I understood every point of it. I highly recommend this book.
This is an entertaining, if quite dated, tale of growing up among numerous siblings and the fun and frustration it entails. interesting quotes (page numbers from edition with ISBN13 ):"Once my father told me that bad things happen sometimes to remind us we are mortal and to remind us to appreciate people more." (p. )"" (p. )"" (p. )"" (p. )
This book was amazing! It is about Mary Lou Finney and what she has to go through during her summer vacation with someone coming to live with her, her best friendship is falling apart with Beth Ann, her siblings, and her new boyfriend. 10/10 recommend this book to everyone who likes realistic fiction!
Let me start out by saying that I LOVED this book. This book is about a girl named Mary Lou, she is a family of 7 people. Mary Lou has a mom and dad, an older sister, Maggie, three younger brothers, Dennis, Dougie, and Tommy. Their cousin from out of town came to their house, and Mary Lou hates him. Then she is forced to go to her cousin's house, out of town. It all goes wrong.
I love Sharon Creech and I LOVE Walk Two Moons, but I didn't find this one to be on that level. It's good for sure, and Mary Lou is a fun and funny narrator. I'm not sure why, I just wasn't quite as enamored with it.Also, I was hoping to recommend it to my students but there's a little too much teenager-y-ness in this one I think.
Mary Lou Finney has the summer of her life, though it is filled with the typical angst that is impossible to avoid in junior high. Her hick cousin Carl Ray comes suddenly to visit their family in Easton for an undetermined amount of time. He takes forever to talk, and seems to act unmotivated. Loved it! Only because I kept a similar journal then.
I must have read this book a hundred times as an adolescent. Rereading it as an adult was interesting, but it lost some of the magic. Love the voice, love the tone, but it can definitely be best appreciated by preteens and early teenagers.
Amazing book! Could't stop reading it! It only took me so long to read because of school work. It's perfect for anyone that is bored and wants to cheer up. It's Funny interesting and has just the perfect amount of adventure and emotion. A real page turner. READ THIS!
This was one of my favorite books in the fifth grade. I loved it so much that I bought it and read it again, after our class finished it in reading groups.
