https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19308.Pippi_Goes_on_Board
Pippi Goes Aboard*Pippilotta Delicatessa Windowshade Mackrelmint Efraim's Daughter Longstocking closed the door to her cabin aboard General Contact Unit Villa Villekulla and hung her red ribbon from her custom door stud for the last time; then she lifted the horse drone down from its pedestal.
All the people on the GCU had crowded into the Smallbay to wave good-by to Pippi, and here she came with Tommy and Annika and the horse and Mr. Nilsson.
Pippi said goodbye to the drones on the Hoptoad and hugged Captain Efraim once more.
Pippi Longstocking was my hero when I was a little girl.
and a monkey?I LOVED HER.This is the book where Pippi goes on a picnic, gets shipwrecked, and is reunited with her father.
or older.The more I think about it, the more I realize that Pippi is a real feminist icon.
In this book, Pippi rescues a horse from its master's whip, but she doesn't whip the master (like I would have).
And she makes a horrible man pay for ruined hot dogs after doling out her special brand of justice.So I guess the truth is right here: I STILL LOVE PIPPI LONGSTOCKING.
Tämä oli ihana. Edellisosaansa hauskempi, satuhetket meni ihan kikatteluksi kun tälle nauroin niin minä kuin lapsetkin. Lempeän tärkeä kuitenkin, ehdoton helmi lastenkirjallisuudessa. Jos sitä nyt joku ei muka jo valmiiksi tiennyt.
GROM I KAKAO! Napisala sam tekst o Pipi! :) https://bezimenasakomentarom.wordpres...
Thomas dan Annika, dua anak-anak yang senang bermain dengannya.Pippilotta meski aneh karena mengenakan sepasang kaos kaki yang berbeda, berambut merah yang dikepang mencuat ke atas, tidak bisa mitamitik dan wajahnya dipenuhi bintik-bintik warna coklat, tapi sesungguhnya dia teman yang menyenangkan.
Pippi yang selama hidupnya mengunjungi berbagai tempat di seluruh dunia, kerap berbagi cerita yang menarik kepada teman-temannya.Buku ini berbeda dengan buku Astrid Lindgren yang lain, semisal Madicken, atau Emil.
Bila kedua anak itu hanyalah anak biasa yang selalu merepotkan orang dewasa, Pippi adalah anak ajaib yang biasa mengatur dirinya sendiri, dan dia sering berbagi kegembiraan dengan anak-anak yang lain dengan cara yang aneh.
Kyllä vain Peppi Pitkätossu on ihastuttava, tässäkin. Vaikka Peppi on ollut itsellenikin tuttu jo lapsuudesta, niin en ole jotenkin oikein osannut samaistua häneen tai saada ihan kiinni näistä tarinoista. Peppi on välillä tuntunut jopa hippasen ärsyttävältä. Mutta näin "aikuisen" silmin viehätyinkin tästä tosi kovasti. Aion lukea Peppi Pitkätossu Etelänmerelläkin heti kun uusi suomennos julkaistaan.Olen muuten pitänyt näistä suomennoksista kovasti, mutta toisaalta enpä voi väittää muistavani kovinkaan hyvin millaisia aiemmat suomennokset ovat (ellei joitain sanavalintoja huomioida). Erityistä tunnesidettäkään minulla ei Peppiin ole, joten uudet suomennokset uppoavat siinä, missä varmaan uppoaisivat vanhatkin.
Well, well! Captain Longstocking, the cannibal king is back! What a pleasant surprise!!However, this book is not nearly as good as the very first book of Pippi Longstocking series. I’m a little bit disappointed actually.
It was good
It's a classic and, reading it, I totally understand why. I LOVED it!
"It's surely best for little children to live an orderly life, especially if they can order it themselves." This sums up Pippi's philosophy of life as she continues her adventures in a second installment.
Not as good as the original Pippi Longstocking, but it still entertained my children and captured their imaginations.
While the adventures in this book lack some of the hilarity of the first book in the series, Pippi's compassion and generosity are highlighted, which adds a more personal touch to this superhuman little girl.
Also, I felt like the underlying current of children being thwarted by their parents was not as strong in this book, which I appreciated.
Tommy and Annika are two kooky individuals.Pippi makes sense to me, but her neighbours are the ones I can't wrap my head around.
Haven't they any imagination?
Haven't they ever done anything fun by themselves?
Why are they always so uptight and easily impressed?
It's a good thing they know somebody like Pippi who cares enough to take the time to show them how to enjoy their lives.
The townspeople ought to stop being so nosy about a good person like Pippi, I think, and pay more attention to the bizarre things about the other children.
Delightful, as always!
A CRAZY UNBILEVEABLE AND COOL BOOK! i was waiting for this book she meets her father! and has hour after hour after hour of craziness and unpredictable things
Good, but didn't love it as much as the first book. My kids are still excited about the final Pippi book...
pipi is soo funny i love reading about pipi and her adventures.
I absolutely love these.
Dlho som sa snažil nečítať očami dospelého. Prečo to dievča nezoberie sociálka? Chorobné klamanie síce vyzerá v knížke romanticky, ale v bežnom svete to môže byť znakom nejakej asociálnej poruchy.... a tak ďalej.... Ale postupne mi ten špecifický humor začal rezať a prestal som hľadať racionálne vysvetlenia. "Pomôžte nám, skôr ako na tomto ostrove zahynieme! Už dva dni tu trpíme bez šňupavého tabáku!"
I used this book as a read-aloud. Students often chuckled at the antics of Pippi, and seemed to enjoy the book. One student who recently came from another country asked “Is this girl real?” It was a great opportunity to talk about exaggeration, tall tales, etc.A fun book for kids!
It was really funny and cute. It was a gift from a classmate after she saw me with a tee with Pippi saying "I want to be a pirate" one of my favorites.
Obwohl ich den zweiten Teil der Pippi-Reihe zunächst schwächer als den ersten empfand, gefielen mir die Kapitel über Pippi, Annika und Tommy auf dem Jahrmarkt und wie die Drei Schiffbruch erleiden derart, dass ich erneut vier Sterne vergebe.Pippi nervte immerhin weniger, sondern glänzte vielmehr mit ihren herausstechenden Eigenschaften: Großzügigkeit und Freundschaft.
Darüber hinaus fand ich die Szene im Theater herrlich zum Lachen.
Ich genoss die Momente, wenn Pippi selbst die ärgsten Bösewichte in die Knie zwingt oder eben dieses wunderbare Insel-Abenteuer für ihre beiden Freunde initiiert.
Da werden Kinderträume wahr.Mein Lieblingssatz: "Manchmal redest du so klug, dass ich fürchte, es wird etwas Großes aus dir."
(view spoiler)[ It is when she is at the fair and watching a play that it is revealed that she might also suffer from being so different from everyone else, being orphaned, living alone and making all her own decisions.
Pippi bawls at this fact.The turning point for this character comes later in the book when father returns.
This was an odd decision for her character that what makes her happy is conformity - having the stability of a constant place to go home to every night.
(hide spoiler)]There are some things about this character which are just so very 'Pippi' and that did not change in the book.
Aneh walau lucu.Sebagai "anak yang tidak aneh", kala itu saya tidak bisa menemukan padanan Pippi pada teman2 yang ada di lingkungan saya.
Dan kalau ada, saya mungkin akan berjarak dari "anak aneh" itu.
Tidak mau sekolah karena takut ketularan pintar mitamitik.Semalam, sekian belas tahun sejak kenal Pippi, Jarak itu makin lebar tentu.
Saya sudah tidak seumur Pippi lagi.Namun jarak itu yang membebaskan kini.Semalam saya terpingkal-pingkal saat Pippi tekun mendengar penjelasan Bu Guru mengenai bagaimana perilaku yang tepat bagi seorang Wanita yang Sangat Terhormat.Dan seorang Wanita yang Sangat Terhormat yang sekarang juga menjadi Bu Guru ini tentu boleh dong terpingkal-pingkal membaca bagian itu.:)
Pippi lives at Villa Villekulla, her home in Sweden.
Her father had been a sea captain with whom Pippi had sailed, until he was blown overboard.
While certain that he would one day return, Pippi, a very strong and independent child, has no problems living alone.
They are in awe of Pippi's experiences and sense of adventure.
Eventually Pippi finds out that she has an opportunity to return to her father's ship and continue traveling with him.
The children wonder how they will get along without Pippi as their friend.
Will Pippi say goodbye to her friends and return to the ship to be with her father?
this is the one where pippi takes tommy & annika on a trip to purposefully get shipwrecked!
she asks tommy to write, "help, we're shipwrecked & we haven't any snuff." tommy doesn't want to write it because "people will think we use snuff." "what's sort of people are more likely to be without snuff?" pippi asks, "those who use it, or those who do not?" a classic example of pippi logic.
& at the end of this one, captain longstocking returns to the villa villekula & they have a big party, & i want that to be my second pippi tattoo.
but she can't bear to leave tommy & annika.
In this book, Pippi, Tommy, and Annika have all sorts of adventures that really showcase Pippi's generosity, loyalty, and kindness.
I liked that when Pippi spent a day with Tommy and Annika's class, their teacher used the opportunity to instruct her in proper behavior (finally Pippi gets some guidance!), and Pippi really seemed to want to learn to be good.
She brought all the necessary provisions, took good care of her friends, and even thought to leave a note for their parents.
Okay, I'll read the next book in the series.
I wanted to revisit the character Pippi as it is mentioned in "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" (in an interview with author Stieg Larsson)that she was created as an adult version of Pippi Longstocking (by Swedish author Astrid Lindgren written in 1950s).
As a kid liked Pippi stories so thought I'd read to my granddaughter (age 6); she didn't seem interested so I read it.
I can see why kids would like Pippi since she doesn't have to live with parents and has a chest full of gold coins and can buy 72# of candy for all the kids in town and goes to bed when she wants.
Interesting contemplating parallels with Lisbeth in Dragon Tattoo trilogy.
Pippi Goes on Board is the second book in the Pippi Longstocking series by Astrid Lindgren.
Pippi owns a home that her father bought for her but her father is away and so Pippi makes all the rules.
And Pippi has supernatural strength meaning she gets to make ALL of the rules.
But she is really a nice kid who doesn’t like bullies so logically she isn’t a bully.I’ve owned this book since I was a child but haven’t read it many times.
Reading it now, for what I hope is the final time, I realize why.
It isn’t much better than the first book.
CIP: noneSummary: Pippi lives by herself and has wild adventures with the children next door and from the village.
One day an unexpected visitor arrives and offers to take her on an exciting voyage.Review: Pippi lives every child's dream life: no parents, no bedtime, no school.
This book will appeal to children ages 6-10 for all the reasons listed above.
Their is excitement and silliness galore.
Customers on Barnes & Noble said:"Another great adventure for children about everyone's favorite strong girl"and"This is a great book for readers all around the world"
Gue ngga kebayang apa jadinya dunia kalo beneran ada anak ini. Si Pippilotta Viktualia Rullgardina Krusmynta Efraimsdotter Långstrump (atau di Indonesia, dikenal juga sebagai Pippilotta Viktualia Gordentirai Permen Efraimputri Långstrump).Buat gue, Pippi ini, unik. Bold, brave, idealis juga, pemberontak, liar, pokoknya, begitu hidup. She's so lively. Dan gue ngga tau, apakah jiwa seperti ini sudah ada dari sananya (bawaan genetis), atau pengaruh lingkungan? hahaha..Bener-bener anak ini bikin gue terkesan dengan segala macam kelakuannya yang ajaib.Bisa dibilang, cerita tentang Pippi Longstocking adalah cerita yang paling gue suka dibanding dengan cerita Astrid Lindgren lainnya. Mungkin karena gaya terjemahannya juga ya..
It was a more intense read than the first Pippi for the kids. The chapters were just that much longer it was hard to get through one in our usual space for chapter books over lunch. The dread that was building in the last three chapters was palpable, and the jokes breaks where fewer then. I think we'll wait a while before we get the next book in the series, since Pippi is getting older and we aren't.Oh, and why was the title translated as "Pippi Goes on Board" when the chapter was translated "Pippi Goes Aboard"?
