https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/441531.The_Butterfly
Never having read James M. Cain is like never having tasted a caramelo-filled churro. Both Delicious and Morally Wrong... the dessert not the novel. Desserty. Yup. That's accurate about this master of the noir washed over by human beauty. Yup, unannointed Cainonites are seriously doin' themselves one huge disservice!!
James M. Cain wrote a book about a father who falls for his daughter. That's all you need to know. It has a nice final sentence but that doesn't save this trainwreck of a novel. Incest can be done well in fiction but not here.
It's been a long time since Jess Tyler's two-timing wife left him, taking their two young daughters with her.
Although I kept reading because it was Cain and I wanted to see how crazy it would get, the writing in this one felt awkward and dated, and everything about the book seemed a bit rushed, as if Cain wrote it as an assignment and was in a hurry to finish it.
It also came out right around his dark divorce from his wife, so maybe it was written during rocky domestic times, or maybe he was just drunk, or maybe he just plain fucked up.
Σίγουρα δεν ανήκει στις πιο δυνατές στιγμές του Cain. Εντούτοις, το ταλέντο δεν κρύβεται.
I had no idea this was about incest when i bought it. Had I known, I obvs would've picked it up years ago.
When a pretty girl turns up one day and asks him for food, Jess finds himself immediately drawn to her by an almost-uncontrollable lust--unfortunately, she's his long-lost daughter, Kady, who is washing up on his doorstep after her own misfortunes.
The novel loses its tightness but gains a valuable source of drama as the new characters complicate things with their own desires and agendas, relieving the pressure on Jess and Kady in some ways and increasing it in others.All of this is a pretty good set-up, and the complications develop naturally enough.
Erskine Caldwell-styled hillbilly mung about a grizzled old poppa fallin' down hard for his lil' Ozark daughter Kady, all budding inta womanhood and fallin' for his rival's son.They fight like grizzly bar's for Kady's tender touch, leadin' to murder in the coal mine! She has a baby and the only way you can tell who's the paw is a birthmark shaped like a butterfly. Dopey hillbilly books are always a hoot to read.
Let me synopsize for you so you don't have to bother:"Hey daughter, I kinda like you.""Oh Pa, I'm such a slut.""Hey, that guy stole Ma!""I'm gonna kill that sumbitch.""Coal mine moonshine? Count me in!""Oh no, everybody's dead...oh no..."The End.
From BBC Radio 4 - The James Cain Series:When Jess Tyler's two-timing wife left him he stayed on at the farm alone, growing corn and going to Church. Nearly twenty years later, a young woman turns up with a suitcase, and there's an immediate attraction between them. The problem is that the young woman is Jess's daughter, Kady. Or is she? Only the butterfly birthmark can settle the question for good. A tale of revenge, murder and forbidden love, adapted by Adrian Bean.
Cain uses his favorite form of narration, the first person confessional, in relating this unusual tale of deceit, incest and murder.Jess Tyler is a church going mountain man.
One day out of the blue, his estranged daughter, Kady, shows up at his cabin and starts throwing herself at him in a most undaughterly way.
The problem is that the young woman is Jess's daughter, Kady.
A tale of revenge, murder and forbidden love, adapted by Adrian Bean.Jess Tyler	John ChancerKady	Ashleigh HaddadWash	Solomon MousleyMoke Blue	Jeff MashDeputy	Martin ShermanCR The Butterfly3* Double Indemnity3* The Postman Always Rings Twice
(2.5) It's an interesting story. I admire Cain's willingness to go there with the topic he examines. But the lead character isn't compelling enough to make the book itself rise into something competent. This leaves the reader with a mess of ideas and good prose but nothing to tie it all together.
Appalachian incest, clan rivalries, moonshining, all the erotic and horrific thrills one would expect in a Cain novel. A good way to burn an hour.
Though far from the best this great author wrote during his career, Butterfly is still a rather tight noirish thriller with an unlikely setting.
This story of weakness and betrayal takes place in the small town, almost Western genre feel, of the eastern mountains.
Cain writes deeply flawed broken characters whose only chance at survival is to claw their way through the human refuse around them.
Filled with the classic pulp taboos that made Cain's books fly off the shelves, The Butterfly is an enjoyable paperback classic of a bygone era, even if it can't stand up to the others works of the genre or its own author.
So far as I have read, Nabokov is the only other author that has written about incest. I guess if a father happens to be a writer and cooks up a story about incest, he's in mortal terror he'll be so convincing about it that all the critics will think it's the truth. (Cain and Nabokov had no children, so they're in the clear.)It's a heavy, messed up topic, but Cain moves through it elegantly. As with most of his novels, this one is written in a confessional format. Would definitely recommend if you're looking for something bleak to read.
Daddy want pork daughter. Daughter take advantage. No end well. Duh.
This book is the right kind of sleazy. I wish more noir was like this. Cause it has heart. And cause its effortless. Its raw and sweaty and the characters are down and out but never angsty.
I love James Cain's books.............
right from the first page one is immersed in the book; none of this 4 pages of description but straight into the story.
While the book was written in 1946, it's as well written and pertinent as today.
The subject matter of incest is still regarded with revulsion (as it should be), there are twists and events of mistaken identity and the story is set in the col-mining country.
The raw emotions, fights, secrets, loves and hates typical whenever people are involved.
The setting, characters and events remind me of today's stories by Donald Ray Pollock of Chillicothe, OH.
Story's alright, but I guess I picked a doozy when it came to the subject matter.
Finished in a couple of hours, then had to take a shower.(view spoiler)[1.
Turns out that, no, Jess was not banging his daughter.2.
Doesn't find that out until page 70 or so, so it's still gross.3.
Daughter and Dad seem perfectly okay with this situation.
Relationship falls apart when Jess tries to reveal that he is not Kady's dad.
(hide spoiler)]Book would've been better if it was just about making bootleg liquor in the mountains.
Well-written, but likely to give you brain scabies.
James Cain wrote The Postman Always Rings Twice, Mildred Pierce, Double Indemnity and more. This is my first time reading a book of his. I saw the movies of those three books though. Good movies. I was not impressed with this book at all though. Maybe it’s one that I’ll need to chew on for awhile to decide it was good. I just didn’t get pulled into the story or attach to any characters. There was a good twist in it but it just didn’t do anything for me.
Very strange story. Characters behave unpredictably and badly. Ending sequences very odd.
An excellent noir novel by one of the masters of the genre. Every once in a while I go back and read some of this stuff and I'm always like... Whoa... These guys were good.
This is a short, hillybilly noir. It has moonshine, rifles, an abandoned mine and incest that might not be incest. I liked it fine.
His wife, Belle, left him ages ago and he's been alone ever since -- until the beginning of this story, when he comes home to find a very forward nineteen year-old girl sitting on his stoop.She plays coy for a while, but finally lets him in on her secret: she's his daughter, Kady, whom he hasn't seen since she was small.
Problem is, she plays more than just coy -- and Jess finds he likes his grown-up little girl in entirely new ways now.
Το κλασικό "Ο ταχυδρόμος χτυπά πάντα δυο φορές" δεν με ξετρέλανε αλλά σίγουρα μου άρεσε και αξίζει να μνημονεύεται και το επίσης κλασικό "Διπλό άλλοθι" μου φάνηκε τρομερό, από τα καλύτερα νουάρ μυθιστορήματα που έχω διαβάσει.
Οι χαρακτήρες είναι εντελώς κατεστραμμένοι, ο Τζες Τάιλερ, ο αφηγητής της ιστορίας, είναι αρκετά βίαιος και αντιπαθής, όπως και η κόρη του.
Ο Κέιν είναι πιο γνωστός για τον Ταχυδρόμο, το Διπλό άλλοθι και την Μίλντρεντ Πιρς, που είναι και τα καλύτερά του έργα, ενώ όλα τα υπόλοιπα αστυνομικά που έχει γράψει δεν είναι τόσο πολυδιαβασμένα και ούτε τόσο καλά.
In the preface, Cain said he was originally working on a story about a family that migrates from rural Kentucky to California during the lean years, looking to improve their station in life.
All I can say is, if I were Cain I would have been pretty bitter that I had to scrap my original story.
Steinbeck's novel has gone down as one of the masterworks of 20th century literature and helped cement him being awarded the Nobel prize, whereas Cain was essentially forced to abandon something that could have been his ticket to greatness and instead create a forgotten novella that will never win anything.
Would Cain's Unknown California Novel been in the league of Grapes?
My edition has Pia Zadora on the cover to go along with the releae of the film.Strangely enough, I like this book.
It' hardly rivals Mildred Pierce or Postman, but I liked to watch trainwrecks sometimes.
Beside, I went to high school with a girl who liked to brag that she was sleeping with her father.
I have no idea if she really was, and she was absolutely no Cady/Pia/or Anais Nin for that matter.
I just find consensual incest really strange.
In it, he discusses his writing methodology and the strange comparison crititcs made between him and Ernest Hemingway...among other things.

After reading this book, I understand why Raymond Chandler hated James Cain's fiction. Chandler's ideal hero was urbane, sophisticated, and strong. Cain's heroes are weak-willed, desperate men forced into brutality by desire for an unattainable, and usually evil, woman.The Butterfly is a story about a man's incestuous desire for his daughter. It gets worse from there.
Noir MysteryOriginally published in 1946, when I discovered this story was about incest, I quit reading it. The subject is not something I feel comfortable reading about, even though it's authored by James M. Cain.Loose ends, twists and mysteries compelled me to pick it up again. I was intrigued by sub-plots going on. There were surprises, but I can't say I'd recommend this to anyone. Hillbilly-like characters, rather than Cain's usual sunny California locations.
James M. Cain leaves the shady side of Southern California to take us to Appalachia for a mangled love story involving incest, feuds and bloody misunderstandings among the hill-and-holler people. With this book, he shows he was much more than a genre novelist. Recommended to anyone with an interest in this writer.
