https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79352.Six_Pillars_of_Self_Esteem
The practice of living consciously- Being present- Living mindfully- Our mind is our basic tool of survival- Self esteem is the reputation we acquire with ourselves- Behaving with accordance with what you see and know- Discerning between facts, interpretations, and emotions- Being concerned to know where I am relative to my goals and projects, and whether I am succeeding or failing- Are my actions in alignment with my purpose?- Getting feedback and receptive to new knowledge- Committed to lifelong learning and growth- Use sentence stems to become more conscious and aware of your life situation- If I were more conscious, how would I treat other people?
A life-saving and life-changing book! If you're a self-studier, read this book. It's as if you were sitting and talking to him. He gives very comprehensive lists, questions and exercises to practice! Live for yourself ! You will see the difference in yourself when you finish this book, it is the first step to changing your ideas about yourself, and how you treat others in kind and how they treat you!
Amazing book, I listened thought the full audio version in one go. Material is very easy to understand and the part I liked the most was about taking responsibility for your life. Favorite quote: "No one is coming to rescue me. If I don't DO something, nothing is going to change."
I wish this book was taught at school instead of a bunch of nonsense religious textbooks...The first 66 pages are much like an introduction which could be somehow boring, containing some repetitive stuff.
I really enjoyed the detailed examples and clarifications provided for each pillar, and I also admire Branden's courage to share his personal experiences regarding each matter.
A 31-week practical program is provided at the end of the book which seems like a reminder to evaluate our consciousness and commitment to the six pillars.I wish Branden was alive to make an update to the last chapters.
Very good--"The unexamined life is not worth living," said the wisest of men who called himself a fool and ignorant."A book on self-esteem?" you might jeer in a mix of derision, disbelief, and, perhaps, curiosity.
"What, do you have, like, low self-esteem?
When I found out I was getting laid off from my job I was also going through some extremely challenging personal crap - as a result, I started having really low self-esteem and spent several months struggling with depression.
This book is extremely helpful.
It gives you practical tools to change the way you think so that you are not constantly blaming yourself for your problems/situation, but are able to strategically give yourself positive messages that are necessary for surviving the hard times.
I have always thought affirmations were cheesy, but when you are really down, changing the way you think can change the way you feel.
This book is already being hailed as a classic on the topic. This book is a result of a life time of study. I recommend it to all who want to achieve much more in their lives.Enjoy and Be Blessed
Give your child roots to grow and wings to fly.
Definitely the best book on self-esteem I've ever read, the author really knows his stuff.
One of my favorite quotes from the book is this simple yet powerful gem "Self-esteem is an intimate experience.
It is what I think and feel about myself, not what someone else thinks and feels about me." In addition to the six pillars, the author also covers self-esteem at work, parents effect on their childs self-esteem and also school teachers effect on a childs self-esteem.
Be sure to have a handy notebook with you as you read to your jot down your thoughts.
مثال دیگری از نداشتن عزت نفس یا حرمت نفس که در کتاب آمده زنی است که شوهرش دائما او را مورد ضرب و شتم قرار می دهد و او را می زند اما زن حاضر به ترک آن زندگی نیست زیرا برای خود بعنوان یک انسان حرمت و ارزش قائل نیست و البته دلیل عمده نداشتن عزت نفس یا حرمت نفس به آسیب های دوران کودکی باز می گردد.
این کتاب ابتدا به تعریف و شناخت عزت نفس می پردازد و سپس راهکار های عملی برای بالا بردن آن ارائه می دهد.
یه یحث کوچیکی بود بین من و یکی از دوستان که عزت نفس چیه و فرقش با اعتماد به نفس کجاست؟ تفاوت اشون با هم برام ملموس نبود.
اولین بار هستش که کتابی توو زمینه روانشناسی کاربردی می خونم و به نظرم برچسب کاربردی واقعا مناسب اش بود.
شاید بتونم بگم بیشتر مطالب کتاب به نظر بدیهی و تکراری میومد برام اما این نظم و این کنکاش بیشتر توو موضوع و طبقه بندی دقیق و خوب کتاب موضوع رو خیلی شفاف تر و مهم تر کرده برام.ممنون عادله ی عزیز و مهربونمآوااول آذر ۹۵

He points out that most of us have 'okay' self-esteem, and many of us are even high achievers but will not necessarily enjoy our lives due to the averageness of our self-esteem.
I really liked his observations from the point of view of a therapist, and his clarification about the goal of therapy, which was so optimistic that it dispelled any fear I had of going down that track.
I was relieved by his observation of the revolution in the world of work over the past 2-3 decades as I had not seen that so well-articulated before and I appreciated his point that a better level of self-esteem is crucial to our survival in this new world.
it's really really helpful book. specially if you're self studying student
But whatever your take on live, you'll have a hard time finding fault in the logic presented.
Personally this book has made me think about how I want to live my life, and made me recognize and understand thought and behavioral patterns in myself and others.
This book will make you want to be better without making you feel intrinsically "broken" (an impossibility, or near close to it as math allows) or otherwise inferior.
There are so many insanely good blockquotes in this book, listing them all would be madness, so I'll select a few that meant a lot to me personally.
This view very much coincides with the 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, which is a more in-depth study on basically the same principles that Branden talks about.Additionally the views expressed by Branden align very nicely with the teachings of eastern spirituality (buddhism, taoism, and Tolle) in the sense that you cannot "fake" self-esteem by lying to yourself.
By being honest with yourself (i.e. observing your thoughts, bringing consciousness to your actions) you can truly cultivate a fertile ground for self-esteem to grow.This is a very short and powerful read, filled with examples of practical applications you can use in your own daily life.
Great book on the topic of self-esteem.
Branden did a good job in defining self-esteem as reality-based and self-practiced, as opposed to something that we should automatically have if we were treated the right way by others.
He also broke down the concept into 6 components that we can work on: 1) living consciously, 2) self-acceptance, 3) self-responsibility, 4) self-assertiveness, 5) living purposefully, and 6) personal integrity.
I particularly liked how he included his own mistakes as examples (including his own history with Ayn Rand), as well as relating the concept of self-esteem in individual psychology to corporations and nations.
Only 10% of life is what happens.
Make an agreement with yourself to reach your highest potential and reason for existing, while you maintain balance in your life.6.
Know what your principles are, and stick to them.Braden also writes about the importance of self-esteem for the family, schools, workplaces, and cultures.
As he discusses, it's only a matter of time before schools start promoting creativity, autonomy, and individuality (over linearity, obedience, and conformity).
It's a service and knowledge economy, where linearity, obedience, and conformity lead to obsolescence.
Instead, we need creativity, autonomy, and individuality (which are fueled by self-esteem principles) to foster INNOVATION.
It was really the best book about self-discovery which targets self-esteem. I strongly recommend it to the friends who are interested in this topic and really strives to read in a simple and understandable language. Many books are unapproachable because of their complex language. However, Nathaniel Branden did a great job by opening-up such an important theme to the broad audience.
من راستش زیاد کتاب های روانشناسی نخوندم و خوشم نمیومد . ولی این کتاب رو روانشناسم بهم معرفی کردن و عالی بود .به نظرم واقعا کتاب کاربردی و مفیدی در زمینه ی شناخت و روش های کسب و تقویت عزت نفس هستش . پیشنهاد می کنم حتما بخوانید :)
Of course, the idea of self-esteem is basically an individualist and libertarian concept, but that can be expressed without bringing up unnecessary politics and attempting to force the philosophical ideas of his former lover onto the reader.
The book should be focused entirely on practical, therapeutic psychology.There are other parts where he applies self-esteem to a discussion on other areas, like education and the workplace, but the political side was what struck me as the most opinionated and unnecessary.
Those are mostly in the last part of the book, which is focused on self-esteem applied to important parts of society, and which, for me, was the hardest part to get through.
Goes into what actually is self-esteem, and how to build self-esteem as well as maintain it.I like this book because it acknowledges the reality that self esteem is something that takes work to build and keep strong.
Goes against the popular belief that everyone deserves self esteem, no matter how they live or choices they make.
Additionally he discusses the importance of self-esteem at work, which is something which connected with me.
I gained a deeper understanding of how high employee self esteem is an important asset for businesses as well for the employees themselves.
I could've skipped every other book I've ever read about self improvement and self realization.
What I did not know was that my depression earlier this year was due to an incongruity between my actions and my beliefs- and their negative impact on my self esteem and sense of self worth.
This book is by far the best I've read so far about understanding yourself.
For me in particular, I learned that a lot of my depression in the last year has been a result of me not living up to my own virtues- holding one belief, but acting in direct opposition to those beliefs (drinking when I value a healthy body, etc.) The sentence stems have also been invaluable in learning about myself and my core beliefs.
This book is really about self-awareness. Self awareness, I believe, is what makes you successful in life. This book provides tools and practices you can use today to become more self-aware, the sentence completion exercises are something I was already familiar with but didn't take seriously until after reading this book.
«عزت نفس یعنی اعتماد کردن به توانمندی ذهن و به توانایی خود در اندیشیدن.عزت نفس یعنی توانایی یاد گرفتن، انتخابهای درست، تصمیمات بجا و برخورد درست با تغییرات.»
«عزت نفس یعنی اعتماد کردن به توانمندی ذهن و به توانایی خود در اندیشیدن.عزت نفس یعنی توانایی یاد گرفتن، انتخاب‌های درست، تصمیمات بجا و برخورد درست با تغییرات.»
On the other hand, when we let our right to happiness be overridden, we have low self-esteem.Our view of ourselves strongly determines how we respond to challenges – this is the power of self-esteem.The first pillar is the mind-set and practice of living consciously.If we want to improve our self-esteem, we must first start living consciously.Living consciously means simply being willing to distinguish between three facets of perception: facts, interpretation, and emotion.Living consciously isn’t just a mind-set – it’s a practice too.
Many would say “with purpose and integrity.” As it turns out, these two qualities are also vital pillars for healthy self-esteem.As we build our confidence, it’s essential that we first take responsibility for our goals.
I surrender!
After bogarting this book from the library for far too long, I submit - I cannot finish, I cannot!
(I'm such a slave to finishing books I start it's like a character flaw).
DNF 50%ish.
This book never failed to put me to sleep when I tried to read it.
If I looked at it sideways or flipped pages, I'd think, "Oh, that'll be interesting" (renew), but trying to read it caused snoring in record time.
I'll remember this one for the Sisyphean effort I made and for the author's odd obsession with his once-upon-a-time relationship with Ayn Rand.
I promise you if you read this book AND DO THE EXERCISES, you are not going to regret it.
Years of defences, years of pain, frustration, anxiety, depression, the unspoken everyday issues we have with dealing with others and being ourselves, these are the sorts of things this book addresses.
"But I don't have time.""But I don't have the energy.""But the book is too thick.""But the text is too small.""But I have all these other books I need to read.""But I'm too busy.""But I don't have any problems with my self-esteem.""But I'm already perfect."Rubbish.
Read it.
''Self esteem is a mind that trust itself, a mind that knows that is worthy of happiness and love and experiences life as being competent in whatever it does.''OK; so this is the basic explanation of self esteem, but to achieve trinity ...
Self esteem's motive in not to ''prove'' our worth but to live our possibilities.
Self esteem is a CONSEQUENCE, a product of REPEATED MIND PRACTICES through ACTIONS and this is the reason why we can't work on self-esteem directly.
Self esteem grows with active performances in the fields of competence, worthiness and pride, one small step at the time.Poet Rumi said, what you seek is seeking you.
This was my first reading for Brendan, and it, certainly, will not be the last. I Love the Personal Development books that makes sense, and this one is on the top of the list. I think he talked about everything possible to be said about self esteemHighly necessary for anyone who wants to understand and improve self esteem, and for Parents, Teachers and Leaders. Rest in Peace, Nathaniel Brendon.
