https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17407748-the-longest-ride
Dear Mr Sparks As I settle into my seat and begin to write On my long haul Emirates international flight I try to avoid all the sideway stares Of passengers curious about my tears I just can't seem to ebb the flow  And as my embarrassment starts to grow I curse you and 'The Longest Ride' For placing me on this emotional slide Such wonderful characters you bring to life First Ira then Ruth, his adored deceased wife Then Sophia and Luke, a most unlikely pair And a convergence of lives shockingly laid bare You deliver your characters with hearts that are pure Forming deep attachments that forever endure Where honesty and integrity are an absolute must For the foundation of character that one can then trust With an allegiance of fans, you've touched many a heart While remaining insightful with wise words you impart Where human decency above all always ultimately prevails It's no wonder Mr Sparks you're making millions of sales!
4-4.5 stars The Longest Ride made me remember why I was always such a big Nicholas Sparks fan growing up.
I used to read every single one of his books as soon as they were released.
Honestly, I picked this book up because the film is due to be released in a week or two and I’m dying to see it (Scott Eastwood as a bull rider… no brainer).
I’m glad I did.
I very much enjoyed both of these parallel love stories.
Ira and Ruth’s story starts in the 30’s/40’s.
It’s a time of war.
Ira is a 91 year old
Honestly, I picked this book up because the film is due to be released in a week or two and I’m dying to see it (Scott Eastwood as a bull rider… no brainer).
They develop a relationship and Sophia starts spending all her free time with Luke at his family’s ranch.
Sophia, Luke and his situation.
The male narrator captured Ira perfectly and the female did a great job with the present/ Luke and Sophia’s story.
It was a beautiful and emotional love story of past and present.
It’s one of those books that will stick with you after reading.
I don’t recall ever associating the quality of being ‘‘humane’’ to a book before, but here I am doing just that for ‘‘The Longest Ride.’’The word came to my mind as I was reading the long and eloquent descriptions of many different emotions the characters are feeling in this powerful story.
I got shivers when I watched the movie, and I got shivers when I read the book.Sparks’ stories always have that peculiar fairy-tale-esque feel to them, though it’s subtle enough not to become annoying.
It seems my days of enjoying Sparks's stories are finally over.So anyways, there are two separate-but-not-entirely-different love stories being spun in The Longest Ride (I hate the title by the way, I don’t know why but I just do).
The couples, Ruth and Ira and Sophia and Luke come from different generations – the old and the young.
I may have made it sound interesting but in honesty The Longest Ride is just another typical, Nicholas Sparks's type of love story.
I will not recommend The Longest Ride if you're looking for an epic love story to read; you'll be tremendously disappointed if you do.
Update: 7/11/13Holy SHIT! Kindle Preorder price is $11.04?Nicholas Sparks I love you but dang....You are already rich....I mean really....It's a digital book.....Unless it reads the book to me I do not like this price... New Nicholas Sparks Book in September!!! I am so excited!!
I just finished this not too long ago and of course, like all of Nicholas Sparks' books - I loved it. I really enjoyed both love stories and the way in which each were told, how one showed a lifetime of love and the other the beginning of love. It did feel like two completely different stories and I had no idea how their stories would intertwine although I had my predictions but loved how they eventually came together. It's such a beautiful story <3(First read in September 2013)(Second read in May 2015)
It is the love story of two very different couples in North Carolina whose lives seemingly have nothing in common with one another.First, we have Ira and Ruth.
The book starts right out with Ira who is 91 years old and has been in a car accident.
Ira’s wife passed away 9 years ago but as Ira sits in the car injured, his wife Ruth appears in the seat next to him, encouraging him, trying to keep him alive.
The love Ira has for Ruth was just so beautiful.
And now that I finally read it, I'm even more excited to see the movie!!I really enjoyed this amazing story!!
The one story is for Ira an old man, who had an accident,and he is recalling and retelling us about his life and his one love Ruth and the second story is about Luke, a bull rider who met Sophia, a New Jersey college girl.
Ira's and Ruth's love story was intense!
But when they did I was really surprised!!I don't read often books from men but this was a brilliant story that touched me in so many ways and made me wonder for the joys of love!I'm looking forward for the movie!!
One storyline involves a young woman who attending college in North Carolina for her last two years.
By chance she meets a young man who came to her rescue near the edge of campus.
Not only is he good at what he does, he seems like a really decent, smart guy.
The second, seemingly unrelated storyline is about an elderly man whose car accidentally slid off the highway someplace in N.C. during a snowstorm and is stuck.
The man is unable to move due to some likely broken bones.
His chapters involve his thoughts.
It's a good story and is well written.
Mr. Sparks, I love to cosy up at home and read your romantic and inspiring novels from time to time, but this book was indeed an incredibly LONG and BORING ride.
It was nevertheless a million times more interesting than the whole story line of Luke and Sophia.
Their love story was so commonplace that I doubt it was worth even writing about.
These are just two separate plots which were somehow connected in one book.
This book, which I only read till the end out of respect for the author, was a complete waste of time.
This book wasn't quite what I had expected, it started out feeling very much like The Notebook but it didn't live up to that standard.
I really like all of the characters as individuals, Luke was a dreamy cowboy who was a bit rough around the edges and Sophia was a very relatable character.
Ira was sweet and so full of love, I just wish his section of the story wasn't all memories.
I enjoyed Luke and and Sophia's sections far more than Ira's, I found my attention slipping during his parts.
Enjoyed this way more than  The Choice  Having this image in my head didn't hurt either...  READ THIS REVIEW AND OTHERS OVER ON OUR BLOG:SBSR SBSR SBSR SBSR SBSR SBSR SBSR SBSR SBSR
My town's library is tiny and has a miniscule selection of audiobooks--except for Nicholas Sparks' books, apparently.
Well, why would I even listen to an audiobook if I can read a book from a much larger selection?
Therefore, I stick to the teeny tiny selection of audiobooks.Since I cleared that up, I'll now write why I found this book to be so dumb:PREDICTABLEI believe I've mentioned this in past reviews of Sparks, but it is, oh, so true.
And you can't tell me that you thought he would give it away to charity, because how would that tie together a Sparks book?
The Longest Ride shares two parallel stories that I’ll only touch upon briefly because I don’t want to give anything away.The first story is of Ira Levinson, who is a ninety-one year old widower that has careened off a snowy embankment and is stranded waiting for help.
However, it’s during Ira’s most desperate moments that his wife Ruth that passed away nine years ago appears to him and together they reminisce about the life they shared together prior to her passing.
The Longest Ride is one of Sparks rare moments where I didn’t have the urge to fling the book out the window.
4.5 A Journey Full of Life StarsI’ve never rated a Nicholas Sparks book low, but I don’t really pick up his books unless it’s going to be a movie.
I couldn’t have image any other voices.The book starts with Ira’s story.
I’m thinking to myself, is the whole book going to be narrated by this old man?
BUT as I listened more I started to fall in love with it.The book flips back and forth between Ira’s story and then the two main character’s Luke and Sophia’s.
As much as I enjoyed Luke and Sophia’s story, I was really interested in Ira’s.
Dos historias de amor que se cruzan de la manera mas sorprendente.Este libro esta narrado en dos líneas de tiempo, una por un hombre de noventa años que se encuentra accidentado en una carretera nevada aislada y otra por una estudiante de arte y un cowboy.La lectura de este libro fue muy pesada. A pesar de que las historias me parecían aburridas, la de Ira es bonita. No conecté con la historia de amor de Luke y Sophia.
His characters and the way he writes suck me into the story every time.
I wondered how different it might be this time, as this was the first time I had seen the movie before reading the book.
Though Ruth died nine years before the start of the novel, she is as vivid and present a character as the 91 year old Ira. Through memories we see their love and life together unfold along with the sorrows that permeate some of it.
It was only the day after I finished the book that I started to remember some ways where the movie was a little different to the book.
However, the resolution is a story that has been circulating the internet for years, and I felt cheated!
I felt like this wonderful love story was no longer "original".
Yes, it was a nice way to neatly tie the two storylines together and have a "tear inducing" ending (if you didn't already know the ending!), but Sparks basically lifted this ending from an email short story!
Even without the copied ending from a email that circulates the internet (of all things!
and I know that I have received this email SEVERAL times!), it is a very, very predictable story!!
I don't readily admit to the fact that I have read all of Nicholas Sparks books.
They are so far apart by comparison that it is hard to see how they will be brought together in the end, but Sparks pulls it off, even though it seems, as I said earlier, a little improbable.They made a movie of this book, which I have seen, and it ties the stories together better than the book (my opinion).
All in all it was very good, probably in my top five Nicholas Sparks books.
Este hombre siempre me destroza el corazón.Pero juro que nunca nadie hará historias de amor como las suyas.La de Ira y Ruth es única.
‘After all, if there is a heaven, we will find each other again, for there is no heaven without you.’  I feel terrible for giving this book a low rating, especially since Nicholas Sparks has been one of my favorite authors since several years; I mean I binge read A Bend in the Road, The Guardian and The Lucky One in a span of a few days in my study holidays in 2011! But this book… was a really long, tedious ride. The first two-third of this was mind-numbingly dull. The two couples in question,
I feel terrible for giving this book a low rating, especially since Nicholas Sparks has been one of my favorite authors since several years; I mean I binge read A Bend in the Road, The Guardian and The Lucky One in a span of a few days in my study holidays in 2011!
The two couples in question, especially Sophia and Luke were possibly some of the most boring characters I’ve ever had the displeasure of coming across.
And forgive me, but are Nicholas Sparks’ books seriously considered ROMANCE??
I think it’s safe to say that I’ve outgrown Nicholas Sparks’ books.
remind me never to do that again.
By now I’ve also come to terms with the fact that I’m not going to be guaranteed a HEA, which may actually be part of the attraction, it sure adds to the suspense factor as I never know who he’s going to kill off and I’ve thrown more than one of his books across the room in disgust but, yeah I keep coming back for more.The Longest Ride was different than the last couple in that there’s no mystery or unscrupulous bad guys here.
She meets former PBR champion Luke Collins at the bull riding event, when he comes to her rescue in all his yummy cowboy goodness.
• El viaje más largo es una novela dulce que incluye elementos de la memorable El cuaderno de Noah y se centra en dos historias de amor –una que tuvo lugar en el pasado (Ruth y Ira) y otra en el presente (Sophia y Luke)–, quizás con el propósito de destacar la importancia del amor en todas sus formas y en todo espacio temporal y de enseñarnos que el amor requiere de sacrificios.Por un lado, tenemos la historia de Ruth y Ira, dos inmigrantes judíos cuyas familias llegaron a Carolina del Norte escapando del holocausto e intentan dejar atrás un pasado tormentoso, lleno de dolor y de pérdida de familiares y seres queridos (en especial, en el caso de Ruth).Como es de suponer, estos personajes se enamoran perdidamente y su amor tendrá superar obstáculos propios de la época (como la guerra, las dificultades económicas y todo lo que implica volver a empezar en un país nuevo y con un idioma distinto).
Maybe I'm just expecting more from him this time, more beautiful and touching stories that we all love.
If I am being honest, there where moments when I wish the story would just centered on Luke and Sophia.
Maybe it having two stories unfold in one book was just a little confusing.
There were times when I have to recall where I left of of Ira's POV or Luke or Sophia before continuing reading.
I kept on asking this question, "How will Ira story connect to Luke and Sophia?" Fortunately, that was answered by the end of the book.
I have read books by Nicholas Sparks before, I have even loved books by Nicholas Sparks before but this one ...  IT WAS THE LONGEST RIDE INDEED. . To me this just felt like Nicholas Sparks had this two not-yet-great ideas about two completely different love stories and he was like "You know what, Im just going to put this two together in a book and then find a way to make them connect, yup, that will work." But, gosh to me, it didn't work.This one didn't even make me feel anything, it was boring
. To me this just felt like Nicholas Sparks had this two not-yet-great ideas about two completely different love stories and he was like "You know what, Im just going to put this two together in a book and then find a way to make them connect, yup, that will work." But, gosh to me, it didn't work.This one didn't even make me feel anything, it was boring, I couldn't connect with any of the characters (even having Scott Eastwood as a GREAT mental image couldn't work).
Way too boring.Then we have this other story, Ira and Ruth.
meh.
و رغم أن تجاربي مع كل ما سبق ليست بالكثيرة، و إذا ما أخذنا بعين الإعتبار التحولات التي تطرأ على إختيارات القاريء و ميولاته مع مرور الوقت، تبقى كتابات نيكولاس سباركس واحدة من الثوابت القليلة في إختيارات عبثت بها فوضويتي، تعدد توجهاتي، ميزاجيتي و الأهم من كل ذلك التغيرات التي طرأت على شخصي.
هذه الرواية على غرار غيرها مما اطلعت عليه (سواء على الورق أو الشاشة) تأخذنا بعيدا عن المدن، حيث الريف، الحياة البسيطة و البيئة المحافظة.
I don't like audio books, and was surprised how long this was. I'm not a Sparks fan either but quickly downloaded this (highly rated ??) one as we went out the door on a 10 hour road trip. Seeing my Grandkids was awesome, and my husband is a saint for listening with me, and driving in the worst rainstorm I've ever been in. Luckily we had several great football games to listen to on the return trip and even though my team lost, football was much preferred. 2 stars
2.5 starsAfter the third NS attempt and the only one I have actually managed to finish (with a little skimming here and there, I admit), I declare myself at a total loss. Why the huge amount of hype around this author?
But whilst Sophia sees a new future for herself, Luke is keeping a secret that could destroy it….I really LOVED The Longest Ride – I sat down first thing in the morning to read it and I spent a wonderful day being swept up in this truly fascinating and enchanting story.Words cannot describe how much I enjoyed the story of Ira and Ruth.
