https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15019.Conversations_With_God
Conversations With God: An Uncommon Dialogue (Book 2) (1997), Neale Donald WalschConversations with God (CwG) is a sequence of books written by Neale Donald Walsch.
It was written as a dialogue in which Walsch asks questions and God answers.
The first book of the Conversations with God series, Conversations with God, Book 1: An Uncommon Dialogue, was published in 1995 and became a publishing phenomenon, staying on the New York Times Best-Sellers List for 137 weeks.
اولین کتابی بود که یه انرژی سبکی رو از کلماتش حس میکردم یکجور آرامش و حس خوب که شاید از هر کتابی به دستش نیارم .
باز باید سایر کتاب های گفت و گو با خدا از همین نویسنده رو بخونم تا به یک جمع بندی در موردش برسم ولی تا همینجا و با همین کتاب هم حسو حال خوبی رو دریافت کردم و به جای اما و اگر ها آرامشی خاص در منه و ازش لذت بردم و تصمیم دارم درگیر حواشی ذهنیم نشم.
این هم مثل میلیون ها سوال و ابهام رهاش میکنم و به تایم خوبی که با کتاب گذشت فکر میکنم...
No se puede negar que estos libros te hacen pensar y reflexionar sobre el mundo. Deseando empezar el tercero y último libro.
It doesn't matter whether you truly think the author conversed with God or whether he made the whole thing up (who's to say?), the spiritual insights into the everyday and commentary of what we have turned religion into are worth the read.
I can see how devoted Christians could find this book offensive as there are a few times quoted that 'following religion makes you good at obeying, not any closer to God', people might find this hard to swallow considering you have 'rules/commandments' to follow as Christians and also that there are no bad apples, just people who have different views of the world.
After studying sociology the messages in this match a lot of what I learned at university.
I love how the series gets more in depth with each book.
There is some really valuable messages in here though, spiritual or not.
Kad bi svi ljudi na svijetu... odlučili da.. E, kako bi to bilo divno mjesto, ta Zemlja naša.. Tko god da ćakula u knjizi, sviđaju mi se ideje! Neke ću prihvatiti kao svoje! ;-)
آخی این کتابه!!!!!! خیلی وقته پیش خووندمش،به نظرم هنوز جذابه!
Whether you believe what happened to Neale Donald Walsche or not, it is a fascinating read and puts a new, refreshing view on spirituality.
เปนการตอบปัญหาในระดับทีกวางกวาเลมแรก ชอบแนวคิดจิตสำนึกรวมหมู ชอบทีสอนใหหัดตังคำถามเกียวกับหลักศาสนา ทัศนะพระเจาตอการเมืองออกแนวขายฝันและปฏิบัติไดยากสักหนอย ปัญหาของโลกเมือ 20 ปีทีแลวทีพีะเจายกขึนมาพูดคุย ปัจจุบันกอยังเปนปัญหาทีไมไดรับการแกไข รูสึกเขาใจไดงายกวาเลมแรกแฮะ แปลกจัง
เป็นการตอบปัญหาในระดับที่กว้างกว่าเล่มแรก ชอบแนวคิดจิตสำนึกรวมหมู่ ชอบที่สอนให้หัดตั้งคำถามเกี่ยวกับหลักศาสนา ทัศนะพระเจ้าต่อการเมืองออกแนวขายฝันและปฏิบัติได้ยากสักหน่อย ปัญหาของโลกเมื่อ 20 ปีที่แล้วที่พีะเจ้ายกขึ้นมาพูดคุย ปัจจุบันก้อยังเป็นปัญหาที่ไม่ได้รับการแก้ไข รู้สึกเข้าใจได้ง่ายกว่าเล่มแรกแฮะ แปลกจัง
These books (Conversations With God 1, 2, 3) are the books that got me into spirituality, and that was the doorway to becoming me! I was fascinated by this series and felt a connection I had never felt to anything or anyone before. As a teenager who was at the time, looking for something to connect to this series of books really helped me!
He details his observations on how we as a planet could unify and make the world a much better place to live with the haves and the have-nots being brought closer together.Whilst there are many themes explored that will make a lot of people scream NO in the loudest voice possible when you sit back and think on the ideas and observations made it does make a lot of sense.
God puts to us the big questions and it is ultimately up to us to answer them.Great reading for those that want to look at the bigger picture and see a world outside of themselves.
It's much easier to shift your own world view than it is to encourage other people to do the same.
At least, I think so.What I took from Conversations with God, either book really, is to find your truth and live it.
As Walsch explains, sometimes its easier "to find who you are by first exploring what you are not." But, it's not fun to read and it's not me.If you enjoyed Conversations with God, you may want to try any of the Abraham Hicks materials by Esther Hicks or Seth Speaks by Jane Roberts.
This trilogy of books was pivotal for understanding that the universe really is non-judgemental. Meaning that you truly can "Ask And You Shall Receive".i dont know weather Neale Donald Walsch was actually conversing with God, or just talking to himself. To me it doesn't matter because the insights he reveals are truly amazing! One of the best books ive read!
كتاب گفتگو باخدا نوشته نيل دونالد والش وترجمه توراندخت تمدن(مالكي)است. كتابي زيبا ،ساده،رسا درزمينه خدا وخداشناسي وچگونگي ارتباط با خدا.من كه درحال خواندن اين كتابم خيلي خيلي ازون لذت مي برم و رابطم با خدا خيلي زيبا شده.اميدوارم به درد بقيه دوستانم بخورهبا تشكرشقايق
How can you think of wasting a moment doing something for a living you don’t like to do?
Have I not told you that all thought is creative?”“Choose, but don’t want.
Do the deed that you want to have the new thought about.
Then say the words that you want to have your new thought about.
People were complaining about high costs so they came along and lowered prices and then people complain about that.
((envy and jealousy are not at someone else’s expense because they will have the same opportunities as you.))equal opportunity NOT forced equality of life The meeting of basic needs.
Interesting ideas, concepts.It's been around 16 years since I've read the first volume, which did mean something to me at the time.However, I feel this one was repetitive and had several contradictions, for instance (view spoiler)[at some point "God" says the 10 Commandments were not His idea but several pages later He eventually says «But remember My Commandment: don't judge.» So, what to think after all?
(hide spoiler)]...It was also too focused on the US reality.
Book 2 picks up from book 1. This series of book (1,2,&3)will definitely shift your perspective on God...unless it don't :-)
It teaches you to embrace everything good in the world.
The book brings up very good points.
They dive into deep issues concerning our world's financial system, political spectrum, a lot of which has to do with the "haves" and the "have-nots." I will say that this book was harder to get through than the first one, seeing how the topic strays from how to live in your own personal life, to global issues that lost me a few times.
Besides, I'm all for a belief system that doesn't tell me I'm going straight into the internal fire, lost forever in total damnation, because I'm in love with someone of the same sex.
We still operate in a primitive "every man for himself" mentality-/ we plunder the earth, rape her resources, exploit her people, disenfranchise those who disagree with us for doing all of this.
We must have bigger and better-- we must exploit the least among us--or we cannot live at the top of the human scale-- unheard of and unnecessary luxury--then we must deny that we are doing any of this.
Otherwise we couldn't live with ourselves..
We are #comfortablynumb more machine than man--we can't even follow simple bumper sticker wisdom that we post all over social media..
After all it is every man for himself right?
I hope everyone can atleast resonate with the words in this book- for they contain innate wisdom in themselves - wisdom of love and life, of God and time, of space and everything beyond, of man and woman and the relationship with all the multitude of beings on earth, of past and future, of everything being in the now- of consciousness and paradigm shift, of there nothing in the universe existing which has not existed already and of free will and unconditional love.
If anything above intrigues you, you should pick up this book.
Thank you Neale Donald Walsh- I haven't been more excited to read series in a book as much as I have been while reading yours :)
There's something about this book that really resonates with me.
It's quantum physics, new age spirituality, philosophical jabber all in one.
You have ti have a certain level of understanding, a feeling I would say to appreciate the genius that is this book.
Walsch himself is a skeptic, he questions himself and God throughout the book.
This book talks about religion, sexuality, spirituality, politics, world hunger, war, heaven.
hell, theology, Hitler, corruption.
There is no subjects that is off limits.
God has no limits.You definitely have to have an open mind when reading this book.
"What you resist persists, what you look at disappears."
If the author really believed he was talking to God why would he haggle over every little thing? This author has been caught in lies, do a search. I was really turned off when, in his second book, he told us that George H Bush was a great humanitarian. How can one converse with all that is and not be in awe?
This book offers amazing perspectives and questions on life and humanity. It's just as good as book 1, but on global matter instead of personal. The examples of enlightened societies makes me want to start building community now! Who's in?!
We all talk with God, but Mr. Walsh, talks and gets a response. Deep but at the same time entertaining, it is a page turner.It also makes you aware of the mistakes we make about God.Different form of prayer, more direct, more humane and more realistic.Great book, that I strongly recommend.
This book provides a different view of Christianity and God's relationship with us. It suggests the Bible and key religious texts of other faiths as guides which have been human interpretations of how to live, but takes concepts further by showing how close we can be to God.
This book opened my life to new possibilities and the fact that we are love. Highly recommend. In fact, i try to use a lot of this in my daily life and really feel that this book could change the world.
این کتابو خیلی دوست دارم و واقعا متن کتاب روان و گویاست و خیلی با این نوشته ها خاطرات و لحظه های به یاد ماندنی دارم
Thank GOD for these books. They change me in ways no other book, or series of books, ever could. For them, I am grateful.
Didnt enjoy this one. The first book had some merit but this one lost me.
A good discussion of politics, the world as it ought to be and how we may be able to get there. As in the first book, there are a few things that are a little difficult to swallow, but not many.
