https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18884.Polgara_the_Sorceress
This is the Eddings' chance to expound at appalling length their various opinions about the hard-wired differences between men and women, leading women to be conniving, emotional, good in the kitchen and with children, completely irrational in love, and made for making babies.
Now, in their defense, this does not (in any of their books) prevent women from doing all sorts of interesting and significant things, but good god this pernicious 1960s thinking makes me flinch away from the page about every fourth paragraph.The voice.
An amazing companion to Belgarath the Sorcerer.
Especially since there ain't no more Garion stories coming to clear that up.
But other than that the book was excellent.
When I first started reading the Belgariad I thought Polgara was extremely dry and I couldn't understand everyone's affection for her, she just didn't seem like the mothering type of figure to me that they were portraying her as.
Of course, by the end of th Belgariad I'd come around, but THIS book really explains so much more about Polgara and why she is the way she is, I really fell in love with it.
Hey, remember all the cool stuff? It turns out the wolf did it all. Lolz.Also, have you ever noticed that men and women are different?
A magnificent epic fantasy novel that is an absorbing read, which combines a complex plot with remarkable imagination.
David and Leigh Eddings have triumphed again with this spectacular novel, to add to your collection of original fantasy works by masterful writers.
But as darkness falls so will too the luck and love that Polgara possess which have up until now saved the world…This has to be the crowning achievement of the greatest fantasy epic ever, where once again David and Leigh display the scope of imagination, humor and sheer depth of storytelling power which has made this series so popular for fantasy lovers in modern times.
This is a great addition to the story told with Polgara's usual dry wit, cutting sarcasm and superb observations.
This kind of follows/accompanies Belgarath the Sorcerer as some of the events overlap but instead of the calm laid back view of Belgarath we are treated to the more blunt to the point view of Polgara.
As with Belgarath, there is plenty of action as well as the more human aspects of the story to keep things ticking over and plenty of the behind the scenes stuff that the main series has missed.
As a teenager I was pretty fond of David Edding's books, but they don't hold up well after time. Eddings has a way of writing the same story (sometimes with different names) over and over, and this book is no real exception.
read and re-read until it fell apart; even the thick rubber band didn't prevent the pages unglueing.
Originally published on my blog here in September 1998.Polgara the Sorceress is the second prequel to the Belgariad and Malloreon series.
The different author attribution of this and Belgarath the Sorcerer apparently reflects not a change in how David Eddings' books are written, but is more an overdue acknowledgement.
There is naturally some overlap (as Belgarath has been alive through the whole of his daughter's life), but they concentrate on different aspects of the history of the Eddings' world.Even though they come first chronologically, the prequels would not be a very interesting read before the remainder of the series.
"Polgara the Sorceress" wraps up David Eddings's high fantasy series that started with the 5 books of the Belgariad, continued through the 5 books of the Mallorean, and "Belgarath the Sorceror." Eddings cleverly precludes complaints of inconsistencies between "Belgarath" and "Polgara" by having Polgara say that people remember things differently.By the last book in the series, Eddings's easy style and insider jokes settles on readers like a comfortable and worn cloak.
Disliked. Loved the Belgariad. Loved the Mallorean. Suffered through "Belgarath the Sorcerer" despite it being the extended version of history we already knew. Having to go through it all onceagain in Polgara's tale was nigh on insufferable. As this book went along I began to find traces of the "smug voice" that has ruined Eddings' work past this realm for me.For hardcore Eddings fans only.
Bloated biography of one of my least favorite of Edding's all-kinda-the-same characters. His women, especially, seem to all be cut from the same bitchy and bossy cloth. The strong point of this series was the adventure, not the characterization (nor the witty dialogue which Eddings seemed to imagine he was writing) so I see no need to read this unless you are a Belgariad completist.
4,5*What a wonderful book!It's taken me a while to pick it up, but after re-reading the BELGARIAD and MALLOREON series for the third (fourth?) time, I decided I wanted to read its two companion pieces as well.
I found myself falling in love with all the new characters throughout the story, however.Polgara's story is a long and complicated one, starting in her mother's womb before she and Beldaran are even born.
The story is told in such a way that I could almost feel my heart break every time something terrible happened, showing how awful it can really be to have a lifespan as long as Polgara's.Of course, the fact that she watches over the Rivan line - her sister's line - is also an important plot element.
That said, the usual standard rules concerning reading any Eddings work applies, perhaps even moreso because this book admittedly is just a retread of events that have already been written about, just from another character's POV.
So don't read it for the plot, but for the dialogue.
Having gone through a recent re-read of Eddings' books in this particular universe, I find them to be both more enjoyable on an older adult level, while at the same time raising an eyebrow at certain repetitive phrases and the very obvious opinions that Eddings and his wife seem to have about gender roles and female archetypes.
You'd think that someone who had lived several lifetimes would have learned that there are a lot of things men and women have in common and that some women are different to others and not all women and not all [insert race here] are the same.
Yes it's easy for someone who has lived a long time to become very ingrained in their thinking but she's done so much stuff and with wolves a lot of the time the female is the leader.
It's lazy.Still it was interesting to revisit my teenage years, I wonder how well the original series would live up to re-reading or would it really annoy me.
The Belgariad Series and the Mallorean Series are hands down one of the best science fiction series ever written.
These series along with the companion books, Belgarath and Polgara are must reads for any science fiction fans.
These start off slow, but they are well worth the reading.
I have recommended these series to at least 30 different people and not one of them have not come away being a die hard fan.
My daughters have even recruited their friends to read them and again, everyone is a fan.
For anyone who loves delving into an entirely new world when they read, this is the series for you.
It's nice to see things from Polgara's perspective, but a lot of what I was most interested in was skipped over. There are also some inconsistencies from the earlier texts (which is only natural, over so much time).I have to admit I was also a little bothered by some of the double standards about chastity and sexuality, when comparing what Belgarath got up to, and what Polgara was forbidden to do.
I love David Eddings, Polgara is simply annoying. I've tried to accept her and having read her story I think I understand her a little better, but she continues to appear impossibly arrogant. This is still an excellent read even though I have very little sympathy with the so called heroine, because Eddings is just a brilliant story teller.
This book held my interest more than Belgarath the Sorcerer, but again was marred by inconsistencies. The character interactions are unfortunately quite repetitive and the characterisation of women is not very nuanced. On reflection, I probably shouldn't have tried to re-read of ALL of the Belgariad world books haha.
Fun read, made me want to re-read the Belgariad and Mallorean. Read them 15 years ago and enjoyed them at the time but it was long enough ago that I didn't clearly remember a lot that was referred to in this book. I like Eddings' fantasy because the characters are fun and interesting, exciting storyline, the good guys win, and they deal with adult themes but are clean reads.
interesting to see the other point of view after reading Belgarath's view but if you haven't read the other books by David Eddings, it may not make much sense. If yiou have read them, its a great add on and fills in some details about the history of the place.
This is where you type your review. It should be 5+ sentences and contain the necessary elements. Do a good job. Other people can read these.
Fun to read about Polgara. But not THAT fun.
The book was enjoyable as a teenager. It isn't quite so enjoyable as an adult.
It's been a while since I read the final, 12th book in the Belgariad by David and Leigh Eddings and it was a little emotional when putting down the book for the last time just now. I don't care if the writing is simplified and was probably what would be called Young Adult now, I love these books and am so glad to have revisited them.
Full review here:http://jamesgenrebooks.blogspot.com/2...It's a wonderful ending to the series, and a reminder of sacrifices made to bring about the changes we need in the world.
I love the world that it is set in; it is so well developed (even if it is a bit static, no culture stays the same for 7000 years) and I appreciated getting Polgara's adventures that rounded out Belgarath's.
I didn't enjoy it 20 years ago either but with the changes in culture we have experience in that time it's even harder sometimes to read.
If a male character spoke about women the way Polgara spoke about men I wouldn't have finished the book 20 years ago.
Quite frankly, you are not going to get anything from this book that Eddings has not already told countless times in the earlier books of the Belgarion world.
If you are not already sick and tired of Eddings's fantasy and the Belgarion tales, you definitely will be after Polgara the Sorceress.
The only reason to read this book is in order to have read all the books of the Belgarion world, and as with the rest of Eddings fantasy, it is an easy read that can be absorbed in a matter of hours without any noticable brain activity.
I've seen a lot of reviews complaining about the sexism of this book (Eddings seems to think men and women think differently, which is probably true, but also that each gender all think the same, which is definitely not); actually I find the racism more offensive.
It's a short-hand that is often used in fantasy books but generally among different species, for example orcs or elves, rather than races of humans.
If you're very into this world, get it, if not and just looking for some general Eddings then Sparhawk's Ellenium/Tamuli series are far superior (and much less racist).
Awash in sexism, with a liberal sprinkling of racism, this story follows the titular character as she bullies her way through history. The only redeeming feature of this terrible book is the last few pages of the last chapter (not the forgettable epilogue), and that is only for the nostalgia. I remember enjoying the Belgariad and the Mallorean years ago (although a recent reread of the former shows that it doesn't hold up well), but this is not staying in my collection. It's headed straight for a used bookstore to see if they'll take it. Very disappointing.
FINALLY!!!!!!!!!!!! ARGH!I'm really not in a bad mood, these books lately just deserve two stars!
