https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1563413.The_Three_Little_Pigs
Recently I visited a friend's home. His daughter started showing me the videoes she watches. There was this The Little Cats video, and I couldn't help associating these pigs and cats together.Funny and adorable writing.
A favourite classic children's story which is a favourite with my Grandchildren. Recommended.
Moral and the way of describing it is impressive.OVERVIEWThis is the story of three pigs, who are building their houses.
One of them, does a great amount of hard work and build his house with bricks and the remaining are LAZY.
They build their houses with straws.
One day, a wolf comes to their place and destroies the houses of lazy pigs but couldn't distroy the house of hardworking pig, because he built his house with bricks and have done more hard work then lazy pigs in house-building.Overall this short story is for children.
BUT MORAL IS FOR EVERYONE!!
The three little pigs is not one of my favorites book, I actually don’t have one.
I chose this book because I read it with my little nephew and makes me real close to him.
To me this short story it’s funny and ridiculous but at the same time interesting on how each of the little pigs had their house build of different materials.
The bad wolf blow the first two houses of the pigs but could not blow down the house of bricks of the smarter pig.
I would recommend this story to the parents that like to read small stories to their child before going to sleep.
I read the challenged book of the “The Three Little Pigs” because that was a folktale every child has heard growing up and I was curious as to why it was challenged and even banned in some places.
After reading it, I can see that the violence was a cause for it.
I researched a little more and discovered it was also banned because the fact that the book is implying that pigs are food could be offensive to the Muslim community.
There was even a movement that banned the book from teachers to ban all books involving pigs in primary schools throughout the UK.
You can do an art lesson letting the students build the house out of different materials. Straw, popsicle sticks, etc. You could also do a lesson on sequencing. The setting is at the three pigs house.
In the original version of The Three Little Pigs, the three pigs set off to find materials to each build their own house.
Once the pig is finished, the big bad wolf comes knocking on the door to let him.
The pig doesn’t let him in so the wolf huffs and puffs and blow his house down.
The wolf sees that he is finished and tries to come into that house.
The pig doesn’t let him in so the wolf blows down that house and eats him.
The wolf tries to trick the pig into coming out of his house but he is too smart and doesn’t budge.
The third little pig builds a house of bricks which the wolf if unable to blow down and therefore remains safe from the wolf.
The story highlights bravery, unionship and independence which I believe are all important topics for children to be familiar with.
If children have siblings at home, they can relate to the three little pigs sticking together and looking out for one another, this can be said for their friendships they have at school.
This book can be used in KS2 for the writing portfolio in SATs, once children are familiar with the story, they can use it to create a re-count.
After building their houses, 'the big bad wolf' tries to blow down their houses to fulfill his hunger.
They looked extremely smooth and easy on the eye to understand, which helps narrate the story as well.
The houses went in order from least strongest to strongest, as well as there was a repetitive sequence with the wolf trying to blow down each house.
Overall, I would give this book 4 stars, as although I found the plot line of the story to be intriguing, I feel that the illustrations- especially of the pigs- could have been more detailed.
This week I chose The Three Little Pigs for my fairytale selection.
I really enjoyed reading this classic fairytale as an adult now.
In this story each of the three pigs chose different materials to build their individual houses.
The “big bad wolf” said “let me in, let me in or I will huff and I will buff and blow your house down.” The third little pig’s house did not blow down because he put the time in and made his out of brick.
Overall I like the moral of this story and enjoyed reading it again as an adult.
Elizabeth Ross's The Three Little Pigs is a slight reworking of the classic tale of the Three Little Pigs.
The main themes that readers will take away are of cooperation, teamwork, and problem solving.
This would be an excellent piece to use in the classroom as students can be involved in the problem solving practice.
Another aspect of The Three Little Pigs is the concept of togetherness and cooperation as the Three Pigs try to overcome the Big Bad Wolf's terror.
Young readers can appreciate the togetherness of the little pig family, how each one looks after one another.
In the story, the pigs build houses of straw, sticks, and bricks.
But once their homes are built, a big bad wolf comes after them and tries to blow down each house in hopes of having a pork-y snack.
After the first two houses are blown down by the wolf's huffs and puffs, the little pigs find refuge in the brick house.
This is because there is a repetitive sequence with the wolf huffing and puffing and blowing each house down.
For example, the teacher could say: "The first house of straw was easy for the wolf to blow down.
The next house was made of sticks and was a little more challenging.
By using this story of The Three Little Pigs, along with The True Story of the Three Little Pigs, I would challenge my students to think critically on whose voice matters and how retelling of stories in their own voice can change the meaning of the text.
By starting with a read-aloud with The Three Little Pigs, I would conduct a think-aloud with the students to promote them to think about who has the voice in this story and how that influences the meaning of the reading.
By using the think-aloud, in partnership with the read aloud strategy, I would be working as a whole class to foster discussion on voice and how it influences the way we read a text.
It's a funny quirky story that engages young readers to get excited about reading.
This book excites children because they are animals that are building a home out of hay until a wolf comes and destroys it.
I liked all the illustrations in this story; it tells you what is happening with all three pigs and the home and the wolf.
This is a funny, admiring nursery rhyme story that still captivates children's reading and will continue.This is a book that I've read myself and to many others to engage them in reading stories for fun.
Children enjoyed chiming in on the spoken lines “no, no, no not by the hair of my chinny chin chin” and “then I’ll huff and I’ll puff and I’ll blow your house in”.The lesson throughout this story is that you must be clever and hard-working, in order to survive, as demonstrated by the building of a time-consuming brick house, whereas as the brothers met their ends through laziness.
The moral: hard work pays off - which is a good lesson for all, young or old.Several adaptations have been created from the original tale and may have more of a place in the modern world.
The Three Little Pigs is a great example of a traditional tale picture book.
I was drawn into the story by the different personalities of the pigs.
It's cute to see the different ways the pigs thought to build a house.
I think that could be made into a great interactive lesson with students.
I would ask them what materials they would use to build a house.
I would recommend this book and think that it's a great book to use with children of varying ages.
I love this book.
I love how each little pig experiences an encounter with the wolf.
I love how the children can judge for themselves if the pigs use the right kind of material to keep their houses standing.
I like how none of the pigs got eatten in this book.I would read this book before the children went to the block center, or the drama center.
I would have the children perform the book in the drama center.
They can retell this story in their own way.
This will give them a chance to change the story around.
I think this book will help the children to expand their imagination.
This is the story of three pigs, who are building their houses.
"One of them, does a great amount of hard work and build his house with bricks and the remaining are LAZY.
They build their houses with sticks and straws".
This places an emphasis on sibling rivalry in the family construct.'One day, a wolf comes to their place and destroys the houses of lazy pigs but couldn't destroy the house of hardworking pig, because he built his house with bricks and have done more hard work then lazy pigs in house-building".
The Three Little Pigs is a classic story about three pigs and their work ethic when it comes to building their own homes.
As the first two pigs take a more relaxed approach on building their homes out of straw and then sticks, a wolf comes into the picture and quickly teaches them that being lazy has its downfalls.
When the wolf meets the third little pig he meets his match, because the third pig is far more hardworking and cleaver than the first two.
This is a tale of the true benefits of how having a strong work ethic, being responsible and have a sharp mind can take you places in life.
Traditional Literature: FolktaleThe Three Little Pigs is a fable about three pigs that each builds a house using a different material.
Then a big bad wolf attempts to blow down each house.
He is successful blowing down the house made from straw and wood, but is unable to blow down the house made of brick.
A story that teaches the importance of staying focused and not taking the easy way out.
This would make a great read aloud for libraries and classrooms.
This is an easy read with repetition that is good for beginning readers.
The illustrations are cute that will keep young readers attention.
I love this story.
I love to tell and retell this story.
This is a classic and have many different virgins.
I will always keep this in the classroom.I would relate this to a classroom lesson, because when we grow older we have to part with our parents.
We will move out on our own, but we will still need guidance.
We have to watch out for the unknown and don't answer to strangers.
It is several different ways to complete certain task and when people give advice most of the time it is to help make the right decisions.
The Three Little Pigs is a classic that never gets old.
This story shows children what is means to build a sturdy home or foundation.
This story not only goes through the motions of building homes and finding out which on is sturdy enough to last, but it shows children that staying focused is most important.
In this book, the two pigs who build their houses out of straw and sticks decide to take the easy way out and it comes back to bite them in the end.
Students may realize that if you take the time to do it correctly that first time, that the effort is worth it...
The Three Little Pigs is a childrens folk tale written by Elizabeth Ross.
This book is well illustrated and also detailed to help engage the students.
The Three Little Pigs is about three pigs that try to build a house but the big bad wolf tries to blow it down.
Each of the pigs use different objects to build their house.
The last pig ends up building his house with bricks so the wolf cannot blow it down.
This is a great book in which I will use to teach my children to never give up and to try their best.
Traditional Literature - This book is about three little pigs who each build a house. The first pig builds his house out of straw while the second pig builds his house out of sticks. The big bad wolf comes and blows down both of their houses. They take refuge in the third pig's house which is made of bricks. The pigs are safe and the big bad wolf finally leaves them alone. The illustrations in this book are whimsical and show how suspenseful the story is. In a classroom, this book could be used to teach perseverance.
Actually read this to a little girl at church today and have not read it from the book in ages.
My grandfather used to tell us the story but always jazzed it up.
The pigs rode motorcycles and flew B-12 bombers (yes, he was a pilot trainer in WW2) and it was ALWAYS a good story, no matter how they got from house to house.
And the wolf?
Sometimes he was a bloodthirsty beast who wanted a pig roast.
Love this story no matter how it is told.
And I miss my grandpa so very much today.
I loved this story when I was a kid.
My parents gave me a big book of short stories when I was 5 and I used to read it cover to cover, every week, for a while.
This was one of my favorite stories in that collection.
First, I used to think pigs were adorable.
Secondly, I used to love the way the pigs outsmarted the wolf.
I understood the lesson a couple years later and loved it even more.
Such a good lesson to learn as a kid.The moral: Hard work pays off.
A great lesson; not just for kids.
The story about three little(two rediculous and the other wiser) pigs and bad wolf . There must be unity in our live..
This is my childhood version and I therefore think this version with these illustrations is the best.
This book is a classic. I loved reading it as a child. I feel that I learned moral lessons from this book. I would recommend this suspenseful book to any age because it is a good read.
Another great classic children's book that children need to experience and read. Its silly and funny and you can make great fun lessons and experiments in the classroom for the lessons.
