https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22911.Amerika
Pero hay algo esperanzador en América que no sucede en las otras dos, y es que más allá de que también está inconclusa (aunque a mí entender "El Proceso" es una novela terminada), el personaje de Karl no está envuelto en una serie de situaciones, en su lucha para alcanzar su propio “sueño americano”, que lo complican de forma negativa, sino que casi sin quererlo es él mismo el que condiciona su destino, en parte por su relación con personajes tan negativos como Robinson y Dellamarche y también como la mala decisión en en el tramo inicial de la novela que lo saca de su precaria “zona de confort”.
Written in 1910 and only published in 1927 after his death by his great friend Max Brod, he leaves many loose ends and many questions about the true fate that the author would have thought for his protagonist.
This fact will condition the whole discourse of the text, revealing to us the vision that the author had, at the time, of this country.
On the contrary (and it is a fact that makes the book so current), an America revealed by the author presented us as being oppressive as we can see with his "play", intentional or not, with the statue of freedom.
688. Der Verschollene = Amerika = The Man Who Disappeared = The Missing Person = Lost in America, Franz KafkaAmerika, also known as The Man Who Disappeared, The Missing Person and as Lost in America (German: Der Verschollene), is the incomplete first novel of author Franz Kafka (1883–1924), written between 1911 and 1914 and published posthumously in 1927. آمریکا - فرانتس کافکا، انتشارات (هاشمی، ماهی) ادبیات، تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سوم ماه آوریل سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: امریکا: مفقودالاثر، نویسنده:
آمریکا - فرانتس کافکا، انتشارات (هاشمی، ماهی) ادبیات، تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سوم ماه آوریل سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: امریکا: مفقودالاثر، نویسنده: فرانتس کافکا؛ مترجم: علی اصغر حداد؛ تهران، ماهی، 1390؛ در 299 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1391؛ شابک: 9789642090815؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آلمانی - سده 20 ماثری ناتمام از کافکا ست؛ آمريكا در ذهن بسياری از آدم‌ها، سرزمين خيال انگیز، و يا سرزمين تحقق روياها ست.
ذهن جوان آغشته به رويا و خيال است.
اين جوان راهی آمريكا می‌شود، تا به آرزوهای خود جامه‌ ی عمل بپوشاند.
Often I opt to know as little as possible about the novels I read before starting them which includes not reading the back cover synopsis.
So I didn’t know this was an unfinished novel when I started.
It’s an episodic novel and there’s a sense Kafka is making it up as he goes along, which maybe explains why he never finished it - he wasn’t working to a plan.
It’s surprising that a writer as brilliantly unpredictable as Kafka becomes a little predictable in his unpredictability – if that makes sense.
The sword in her hand seemed only just to have been raised aloft, and the unchained winds blew about her form.And Karl Rossmann encounters many a character of his way but they all seem to be no more than soulless puppets… But nonetheless all those marionettes on the strings of fate try to manipulate him and use him in their own purpose.
And whatever he does appears to be wrong and works against him.He couldn’t tell the whole story here, and even if it had been possible, it still seemed hopeless to try and avert a threatened injustice by telling of one already suffered.In the soulless world one can only exist slowly turning into naught and gradually disappearing into nothingness…
جایی که حسن نیت در کار نباشد، محال است بتوانی از خودت دفاع کنیبنظرم آمریکا را می توان چکامه شادی کافکا نامید، آنهم در تقابل با کارهایی مثل مسخ و محاکمه و قصر که فضای پیچیده و تاریکی دارند. اما در این اثر، با همهی دردسرهایی که برای شخصیت اول داستان پیش می آید، میتوان روزنه امید و بهروزی را هم حس کرد... در صحنه هایی چنان هیجانی بود که ریتم "مرگ قسطی" سلین برام تداعی میشد؛ مخمصه پشت مخمصه و نفس گیر حیف و هزار حسرت که کافکا این کتاب را هم به پایان نرساند...
جایی که حسن نیت در کار نباشد، محال است بتوانی از خودت دفاع کنیبنظرم آمریکا را می توان چکامه شادی کافکا نامید، آنهم در تقابل با کارهایی مثل مسخ و محاکمه و قصر که فضای پیچیده و تاریکی دارند. اما در این اثر، با همه‌ی دردسرهایی که برای شخصیت اول داستان پیش می آید، میتوان روزنه امید و بهروزی را هم حس کرد... در صحنه هایی چنان هیجانی بود که ریتم "مرگ قسطی" سلین برام تداعی میشد؛ مخمصه پشت مخمصه و نفس گیر حیف و هزار حسرت که کافکا این کتاب را هم به پایان نرساند...
Se me hizo bastante pesada en algunas partes, pero la historia me parece brillante; una muestra más de la agudeza de este hombre con baja autoestima.Son varios los temas que desfilan en este libro.
Los siguientes son los que más destacan, en mi opinión:▪ Kafka juega con sutiliza con los matices sociales, los títulos que nos damos por lo que empleamos y la significación relativa que nos otorgamos como una especie de valor humano; de eso se desprende, parcialmente, el abuso de autoridad, el poder, denominador común de distintos trabajos del escritor.
Es el perfil optimista de este relato, que queda un poco tapado por los infortunios de Karl.
I loved this first novel by Kafka, much more sunny and easier to read than his others (even though the chapter on Brunelda is pretty frightening). This is incomplete - but does not matter much as Kafka's stories are dreamlike and disjointed anyway.Kafka never visited America. I was thinking today that whatever is happening in America nowadays is much weirder and more surreal than any of his novels.
A guy with a beard and thick rimmed glasses read Amerika, just makes me feel like a parody of myself.Kafka is one of those authors young men latch on to in high school or college and inevitably talk way too much about.
It's hard to see the humor in a lot of Kafka's work unless someone points out that the man would often read his work with a wry, smart-ass sensibility.The Trial and the Metamorphisis both could work as dark comedies seen through the right lens.Amerika serves as a pretty effective Rosetta Stone to understanding this.
Ne znam, možda da napravim policu "knjige koje me nisu ubile, a baš su se potrudile"?Ne radi se o tome da Kafka nije dobar, naprotiv, previše je dobar u onome što pokušava, a to je da vas (mene) natera da se grčite od transfera blama, da vas (mene) glavom nadole uroni u depresivnu epizodu, da ubije životnu radost u vama (meni).
Da, znam da je on sam smatrao kako je zapravo humorista.
Dobro, važi.
Nije me stvarno i do kraja ubio!...
dobro, ako me nije ubio Paviljon br.
Ali nekako sam mislila da sam manje podložna negativnim književnim uticajima u ovim odmaklim godinama, i gle čuda, varala sam se.Ne znam.
Cover of the first edition of 'Der Heizer' ('The Stoker')Publisher's NoteTranslator's Preface & Notes--Amerika: The Missing PersonFragments:Brunelda's DepartureAt a street corner Karl saw ...They traveled for two days ...AcknowledgmentsChronologyBibliographyA Note on the Type
Wonderful! My "first" Kafka....
I bought this book over a year ago but decided against reading it once I realised that it was 'unfinished' and I didn't want that for my first Kafka.
In retrospect it seems so foolish, but I cannot deny the fact that I'm glad I hadn't read it then because I wasn't filled with the sufficient amount of despair towards the life I lead, to throughly feel this book, to find closure in it's incompleteness.One is easily horrified by the rare and exceptional abominations of the world, but not by everyday events.
It has been said that no two people ever read the same book and I'm glad this experience is all mine.
Also in this chapter Karl applies for a job with the "Nature Theatre of Oklahoma" and gives as his name "Negro," which was his nickname at his last post, although this is news to the reader as well.
So although I was hating the chapter with Brunelda, Robinson, and Delamarche, my spirits picked up when Karl applied for some whackass job under the name Negro.
Don't walk - RUN - away from this book.
Amerika is about this 16 year old boy named Karl who gets exiled to America by his German parents after impregnating a household servant.
Just as he was bewildered and passive during the aforementioned fornication (the maid overtly seduced him), Karl remained so for the rest of the book (at least what I read).
Repeatedly, and without seeming to learn from his experiences, Karl was screwed over by fates that even the most lubberly of recreants could have avoided with little to no fancy footwork.
Skip Amerika.
'' Ειναι δυσκολο να υπερασπισεις τον εαυτο σου οταν δεν υπαρχει καλη θεληση'' μονολογει ο νεαρος και απειρος Καρλ Ροσμαν οταν θα συνειδητοποιησει οτι ο κοσμος ειναι αδικος και σκληρος.
Ωστοσο γεματος νεανικη ορμη και ησυχη συνειδηση δε μοιαζει να απογοητευεται απο τις δυσκολιες που προβαλλουν στον δρομο του.
Διαφορα μικρα περιστατικα θα τον στιγματισουν απο τη στιγμη που θα φτασει στην Αμερικη συναντωντας καθε λογης ανθρωπους και με συγκινητικη και αφελη απλοτητα θα φτασει ως την καθαρση αναζητωντας την θεση του στην κοινωνια παντα προθυμος να ξεκινησει απο το μηδεν (μακρια απο την τραγικη εξαρση των αλλων δυο μεγαλων μυθιστορηματων του).
Το εργο του αυτο παρεμεινε δυστυχως ημιτελες.
ژانر کتاب:  رمان کوتاه و ادبیات تمثیلی یا همان الگوریتمثیل یکی از صور خیال است و یکی از انواع تشبیه به حساب می آید.
تمثيل حكايتي است در نثر يا نظم با دو معني : معني نخستين يا معني ظاهري و معني ثانويه .
تمثيل يك داستان است در لغتنامه اصطلاحات ادبی کادن اینگونه تعریف شده است که، مي توان الگوری را در دو لايه يا سطح فهميد و خواند و در بعضي موارد حتي تا سه مفهوم را نيز در بردارد.
منشأ تمثيل بسيار قديمي است و از آن براي اشكال گوناگون در بيان استفاد
قهرمان و یا همان پروتگونیست داستان: کارل روسمن است که در مقابل انتگونیست های خود که همان آشناهایش هستند که میخواهند از خوبی او سوء استفاده کنند قرار میگیرد.
هرچند که کافکا این کتاب را به نام آمریکا نوشته اما شباهت های زیادی را در نا عدالتی و پوچی زندگی را خواننده دریافت میکند.
چرا که در واقع این کتاب تنها برای آمریکا نیست، برای تمام زندگی ها و انسان هایی است که هویتشان را از دست دادند و حالا قدرمتندان هرگونه که میخواهند با آنها رفتار میکنند.سناتور یاکوب:  عموی کارل که شخصی ثروتمند و موفق است.
Le avventure di PinocchioAmerica è un romanzo incompiuto del 1911 pubblicato postumo nel 1927.Karl Rossmann è un sedicenne obbediente, serio, diligente che viene mandato in America dai genitori perché accusato di avere messo incinta una cameriera.Il senso del romanzo inizia già qui.
Questa è infatti la prima delle tre occasioni in cui sarà accusato ingiustamente di qualcosa che non ha commesso o di cui non ha colpa e per questo inevitabilmente scacciato.
Rimane solo un vago senso di colpa e un tentativo di rivalsa in una terra, l'America, che si rivela spesso un'illusione.Il romanzo è molto semplice, chiaro, diretto e descrittivo.
He travelled steerage, where there is "a glimmer of murky light, long since stale from its use in the decks above", and is due to meet a slightly wealthier uncle in New York.He disembarks, then remembers he has left something behind, so leaves his trunk on shore, in the care of an acquaintance, and becomes disoriented in the labyrinth of the ship.
During the voyage, Karl had protected his trunk obsessively, but now he seems not to care, and instead, goes to the captain, to petition for the stoker.That's just the first chapter.
So we have Kafka, who had never left Prague except from some short excursions to France and Upper Italy, writing about the adventures of a young man in New York, U.S.A.The narration is plain and without fanfare.
Klaus Mann lies in his Preface when, referring to this unfinished work (Kafka suddenly stopped writing this so the last chapter does not look like a last chapter), gushes with phrases like "this bewitched scenery," "an amazing panorama," "tremendous drama of Justice," "puzzling, terrifying, funny, sardonic irony," etc.This is Kafka trying to write like Dickens.
This novel is completely different from all the others Kafka's works. I mean, it's not kafkaesque, it's picaresque. Amerika has something of Dickens and it doesn't seem written by an european novelist. Kafka has written about the myth of a new world seen like a land of false possibilities where a new Candide, the young Karl, is pushed and pulled away by circumstances.It's a real pity that this novel is unfinished. I've loved the final and totally independent chapter about The Nature Theatre of Oklahoma. Who knows where Kafka wanted to take his Karl after that.
I am not sure what is a spoiler and what is not, but before I read this I had a very wrong idea about it. This is the most humorous Kafka work. According to the intro he was doing his version of David Copperfield in a country he never visited but learned about in a biography of Benjamin Franklin. I have not read much James Thurber but that is the similarity that I found.
Take the Franzen mystique/name off the cover, give it to people with no idea, and the flaws in that book become screamingly apparent.Anyway, my point in bringing this up: How does one read Kafka after everything in the world has become "Kafkaesque"?"When Karl appeared before them and greeted them, they put away the ledgers quickly and picked up some other large books, which they opened.
But once in that office, when Karl said that he had attended a European middle school, they declared that they were not responsible for such cases and requested that he be taken to the office for former European middle school students."This is funny .
Amerika transposes the episodic structure of the picaresque (in which the rogue-hero is strung from Event to Event, beholden only to the unfurling of plot) to the form of an anti-Bildungsroman—wherein our narrator, Karl, is not the seat of identity's formation or Spirit’s progress, but rather marches inexorably towards a dissolute subject: the “Man Who Disappeared”.
Karl’s transit (or perhaps more correctly Kafka’s, he who so obstinately rejected closure) reaches its logical destination upon adopting the name “Negro”, which thereby recasts him as the wholly-dissolute minor subject, the Invisible Man.
ใครจะคิดวา depressed lord อยางคาฟคาจะเขียนcoming of ageออกมาไดอยางมีเลือดมีเนือเพียงนี วิธีทีตัวเอกวัยสิบหกอยางคารล รอสมันสembraceทุกสิงอยางทีมาปะทะในชีวิตระหวางอยู " อเมริคา" มันงดงามมากจริงๆ สวนตัวละครimmigrantsทุกตัวในเรืองนีคือเรารักทุกตัวเลยจริงๆ เปนนิยายทีรักอีกเรืองปีนี
ใครจะคิดว่า depressed lord อย่างคาฟคาจะเขียนcoming of ageออกมาได้อย่างมีเลือดมีเนื้อเพียงนี้ วิธีที่ตัวเอกวัยสิบหกอย่างคาร์ล รอสมันส์embraceทุกสิ่งอย่างที่มาปะทะในชีวิตระหว่างอยู่ " อเมริคา" มันงดงามมากจริงๆ ส่วนตัวละครimmigrantsทุกตัวในเรื่องนี้คือเรารักทุกตัวเลยจริงๆ เป็นนิยายที่รักอีกเรื่องปีนี้
انتظار داشتم ازش خوشم بیاد. ولی خیلی تکخطی بود. حقیقتاً کافکا یهجور ملالانگیزی مینویسه. شاید هم برای من اینطور بود. ولی دغدغهشو دوست داشتم. درگیری و گرههاش خوب درومده بودن. کاش هیجان بیشتری داشت یا اینقد تکخطی نبود روایتش. هیچکششی برای تمومکردنش نداشتم. دیالوگها بخش اعظم روشنگری داستان بودن که گمونم اگه نویسنده هنرشو توشون نمیذاشت، دیگه چیزی از داستان باقی نمیموند. در واقع داستان مدیون دیالوگنویسی، شخصیتپردازی و درونمایهشه. وگرنه طوری نیست که بگم داستان تکنیکیای هست. اینایی که چار و پنج دادن، بگ
انتظار داشتم ازش خوشم بیاد. ولی خیلی تک‌خطی بود. حقیقتاً کافکا یه‌جور ملال‌انگیزی می‌نویسه. شاید هم برای من این‌طور بود. ولی دغدغه‌شو دوست داشتم. درگیری و گره‌هاش خوب درومده بودن. کاش هیجان بیشتری داشت یا این‌قد تک‌خطی نبود روایتش. هیچ‌کششی برای تموم‌کردنش نداشتم. دیالوگ‌ها بخش اعظم روشنگری داستان بودن که گمونم اگه نویسنده هنرشو توشون نمی‌ذاشت، دیگه چیزی از داستان باقی نمی‌موند. در واقع داستان مدیون دیالوگ‌نویسی، شخصیت‌پردازی و درون‌مایه‌شه. وگرنه طوری نیست که بگم داستان تکنیکی‌ای هست. اینایی که چار و پنج دادن، بگن چی دیدن توش شاید مغزم کار کنه و بفهمم. :دی
ცხადია, ვარსკვალები არაფერს ცვლის და წყვეტს, მაგრამ ყოველთვის, როცა კაფკას რომელიმე ნაწარმოებს წავიკითხავ, თუნდაც ნახევარი გვერდი იყოს, მინდა ჩამოვუყვე ყველა სხვა ავტორის წიგნებს და თითო ვარსკვლავი ჩამოვაკლო.
Chuyện ông không tự tay hủy bản nháp này đi, hẳn cũng giống với tâm lý của một người mẹ luôn day dứt về đứa con sơ sẩy của mình...Tạm dừng nói về Kafka (mà tôi nghĩ là mình nói hết nổi rồi), tôi sẽ tập trung phân tích tác phẩm này trong sự so sánh những điểm giống và khác với 2 cuốn tiểu thuyết còn lại là Vụ Án và Lâu Đài (như đã nói ở trên, tôi không ấn tượng với Hóa thân nên không biết cách liên kết với tp này).Thứ nhất, về bối cảnh không - thời gian của tiểu thuyết, thì đây là tác phẩm còn bám nhiều nhất vào chất liệu hiện thực của thế giới nơi Kafka đang sống với hai địa danh có thực từng được nhắc đến: Đức và Mỹ.
Amerika (The Man Who Disappeared) is a surreal comedy of errors, much less about the continent itself and more about the seemingly absurd adventures of Prague German Karl Rossman. Although funnier and lighter than Franz Kafka's other works, there is an undercurrent of menace and alienation found in this novel.
Διαδραματιζόμενο στην Αμερική στις αρχές του 20ου αιώνα, τότε που η χώρα αυτή φάνταζε ως η γη των αστείρευτων ευκαιριών, το ιδανικό μέρος για ένα καινούριο ξεκίνημα. Για τον νεαρό Καρλ Ρόσμαν, το ξεκίνημα αυτό θα χαρακτηριστεί αρχικά από μία αναπάντεχη και ευνοϊκή συνάντηση για να εμπλουτιστεί στη συνέχεια με απογοητεύσεις, εμπόδια, δυσκολίες και ατυχίες. Μέσα στη θολά προσδιορισμένη ατμόσφαιρα της Νέας Υόρκης, γνωρίζουμε τον πρωταγωνιστή, τον ακολουθούμε στην πορεία που χαράζει, συμπάσχουμε και παρακολουθούμε τις εξελίξεις της ζωής του που τον οδηγούν με ένα τόνο αισιοδοξίας στην τελική συμφιλίωση με τη μοίρα του.
بعدا مينويسم
في الحقيقة طول فترة القراءة اللي أمتدت أسبوع و زيادة مكنتش قادر أتخلص من فكرتي المسبقة عن كافكا في إنه شخص قاتم النفس و قلمه قاتم زيه، الفكرة اللي كونتها من مقالات و مراجعات كتيرة قريتها عنه و عن أعماله خاصة روايته الأشهر "التحول".
على الرغم من إن الرواية دي بتتكلم عن قصة مهاجر ألماني في أمريكا إلا إني نوعا ما حسيت إن كافكا كتبها و هو متخيل نفسه المهاجر دا، شخصية المهاجر ظهرت كشخص سلبي إلى أقصى حد، جعلوه فانجعل، من أول ما أهله قالوله هاجر لأمريكا مرورا بكل المواقف التالية اللي حصلت له سواء في السفينة أو في نيويورك أو في الفندق أو مع الأتنين أصحابه اللي أستهبلوه.
صبي أوروبي يذهب إلى أمريكا .. فكيف يعامله العالم الجديد .. الغرباء وحتى الأقارب ؟ أعتقد أن صفات عديدة من كتابات كافكا تبدو في هذه الرواية الأولى من كتاباته.. العبث الشديد والأحداث اللا منطقية -وان كانت هنا أهدأقليلاً - ولكن فيها تشابه مع بقية أعماله .. القصر والمحاكمة وغيرها .. علاقته شديدة الارتباك بأهله ، تخلي عمه عنه وما إلى ذلك .. هل كان يجب أن تُفقد أوراقه؟ لشدّ ما أردت قراءة الفصل الأخير والذي تتوقف عنده الرواية فلا نعرف مصير صغيرنا "كارل" وهل ستتحسن أحواله أم ماذا كما عقّب صديقه ماكس برود في نهاية القصة ...
There's perverse pleasure in watching a genius fail. If you love Kafka, read this to know why: watch as his beautiful existential vignettes die horribly the moment they are bolted onto a conventional plot. Marvel at how trite the themes of contemporary fiction are when they're no longer contemporary. Cheer (okay, maybe not cheer...) to know the man tortured himself to do better than this sophomoric attempt at a first novel. And, if you're a way more persistent reader than I, maybe actually finish it, unlike I did.
Absurdul și arbitrariul care schimbă vieți. Foarte muncitor Karl și nu e destul să se adapteze în America lui Kafka.
Hip hop nebo Snup Dogg v knize sice není, ale to nám vůbec nevadí.
Takže, mladej vocas z pražskýho hoodu, Karel AKA Ice T-Grossman AKA 2Kaja, dovalí do Ameriky, kde začne chillovat u strejdy, kterej má hodně vaty, takže hip hop jak sviň, to chceš.
Místo za bitchama ale Karel jede na výlet za nějakým frajerem, což strejdu dost vypissuje a mrtě ho vyfukuje.
Už tou dobou mě to moc nebavilo a ukázalo se, že Kafka psal první polovinu knihy asi na Vyšehradu - protože poté to šlo už jen z kopce.
To trochu pomohlo, ale moc ne.
Astonishing. Loved this book more than other works of dearest Kafka. Every sign was so well organized and I felt, for the first time, that I could actually undestand what Kafka meant. Im sure that this book is one of the books i will never ever forget. So original. So genius. Im full of admiration.
Passages of pure genius, I can't understand why he would not finish it, why he wanted it burnt... But an unfinished Kafka "draft" is better written that any other author's overpolished final piece.
“what Karl had read about America was perfectly correct in this regard; here the fortunate few seemed quite content to enjoy their good fortune with only the pampered faces of their friends for company.” Not so far off the mark.
The character of Karl, who we meet on page 1 fresh off the boat, is a real favorite.
He’s an American!
Karl is far from perfect, he’s not tactful for one thing, but he fights for what he feels is right, he won’t let little injustices go and I like that.
Odd, at times really funny, unfinished, but the real thing.
بالأعلي ذكرت أنها نفسية بالنسبة لي.تلك الرواية تغلقها لتفتحها وتشرع في قراءتها من جديد لتنتبه لتلك التفاصيل الصغيرة التي وضعت لك علي مر الطريق دون الانتباه لها.و أخيرًا و رغم علمي بمشكلة تلك الرواية أن الكاتب لم يكمل نهايتها، أو لم يراجعها و الانتقال بين بعض الفصول يجعلك تعتقد أنه لابد و أن هناك حدث ما مفقود ف المنتصف.ولكنني بصراحة لم أشعر بذلك،و أخيرًا ثانية : لا أدري و لكنني موافق بشدة بما قاله كافكا..
Nei labirinti raccontati da K., senza alcuna possibilita' per l'orizzonte (se ci fosse)."Allora sono colpevole", disse Karl, facendo una pausa come se si aspettasse dai suoi giudici una parola amichevole, tale da infondergli il coraggio di continuare a difendersi, ma questa parola non venne... (p. 145)"E' impossibile difendersi quando manca la buona volonta'", si disse Karl, ... (p. 146)Cosi' si giunge ad una perfetta coincidenza tra l'espatriazione del superstite absburgico, la disintegrazione umana e religiosa dell'Ostjude e l'incomunicabile frantumazione dell'uomo moderno - o piu' precisamente di quello occidentale - in genere.(Claudio Magris a proposito di Joseph Roth, p. IX)
(It is worth noting that two of Kafka's four serious loves, Julie Wohryzek and Milena Jesenska, died in concentration camps, a reminder of how closely his life was tied to the atrocities he did not live to see.)Mark Harman's translation is truly superb, easily enjoyable and does considerable justice to the original text.
But half a novel from Kafka is worth far more than entire libraries by other authors, and even in his earliest effort, he manages to prove as unsettling as he is riveting.
In Amerika, however, Karl Rossman seems incapable of learning from experience and making a firm decision.
Even when he seems to make a good decision, he eventually gives into pressure from others and ends up in a bad situation.
Frustrating.What is good about the book is that the book seems to be going somewhere, but as Kafka never finished, probably because he was lost in the plot, we will never know.
Perhaps in the end he will find it in Oklahoma but, unfortunately, Kafka never finished the book.
Not my favourite Kafka book, but probably worth the read.
Dreamlike, in that things happen one after the other without the usual kind of cause and effect that you get in novels.
Some of the things that happen are good, but I felt that it was generally one step up for two steps down, and the times that Karl was happy or fortunate would be fewer and farther between as the novel continued (which it could have done indefinitely).
There's the sense of unfairness that runs through most of Kafka's writing (the things that happen, good or bad, are not deserved) but things aren't as terrible as in something like The Trial.
Reading Amerika I felt like I was reading the really small print on the back of some product in the supermarket. Squinting, looking closer and closer, trying to descipher it, consentrating... I'm still not sure I got it. Yeah, and there's that fact that it hasn't been finished. So... I don't know. The book left me kinda confused.
