https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30183.Marked
Way to give away almost everything.The Characters: Let's start with the protagonist herself, Zoey Redbird.
- Page 46: "She wasn't thin like the freak girls who puked and starved themselves into what they thought was Paris Hilton chic.
I think I can manage to answer a kinda personal question." What the fuck?Page 277: "Aphrodite laughed a throaty, I'm-so-grown-up-and-you're-just-a-kid laugh.
*rolls eyes*The writing: I guess editing just lost its meaning in the midst of horrible books.
I just want to say one last, important thing to the Casts:Just in case I am called a rotten bitch for trash talking this book.
Someone please tell me why this high school doesn't just keep vampires away from the human populace, if vampires can just come in and pick somebody out like that.It's the sensible thing to do!So oh no, this completely unlikeable, whiny, judgmental little moron has been turned into a monster against her own will and is going to have to move to an exclusive academy for vampires.
It isn't like he dragged her, kicking and screaming, to be exorcised or thrown in an institution.Zoey's sister: A PERFECT CHEERLEADER!Zoey's brother: A DORK WHO PLAYS VIDEO GAMES!1!!11!!Zoey's grandmother: A proud Cherokee woman who is the only person who understands and loves Zoey.Okay, so the two main heads of the family are into religion.
Read about half of it.
I'm returning the rest to the library.The authors tried to make so many references to pop culture, they sounded ridiculous, and then were even proud of themselves for "sounding like teenagers," as they stated in the preface.
They tried to make moral lessons out of the life of this "fledgling," and had her reject things like Paris Hilton's weight, oral sex amongst teenagers, and Ashton Kutcher unfortunately liking older women.
If you want an awesome, captivating fantasy fiction series that gets teenage girls thinking about our over-sexualized and beautified culture, try Scott Westerfield.
-more teeny gossip and more OMGs-"Tweeny 1: "ZOMG like yeah."All of a sudden some macho vamp guy stands in the hallway, points at teeny no #1 and is like "ZOEY YOU HAVE BEEN CHOSEN TO BE THE MAIN CHARACTER IN A BOOK THAT IS SO NOT TRYING TO BE LIKE TWILIGHT BUT YEAH YOU HAVE BEEN CHOSEN."Then they're like "ZOMG YOU HAVE BEEN CHOSEN."Tweeny 1: "SNAP.
Oh and Zoey falls in love with some vampire guy after he reads a speech from Shakespeare in his sexy vampire hunk voice.
Oh, I liked this book SOOOOOOOOO much better than the Stephanie Meyer series--these kids are smarter, more diverse, less whiny and far more intersting. Add to that a new version of vampirism, and it's a completely winning combination. The story telling is top notch, the characters are interesting, and the book is compelling start to finish. I can't wait to dive into the next in this series!And I have to admit I'm intrigued by the concept of a mother/daughter writing team, especially such a successful one. That's an interesting story in an of itself!
Lets get straight to the point here.This book was weird, disgusting and epic fail at the same time. Let me tell you the whole story in pictures.Enjoy :)(I don't know why, but some of the pics are not coming, sorry for that!)MARKED -THE REAL STORY.Once upon a time, there was this stupid, smart-ass girl named Zoey who was marked as a vampyre. But don't worry my fellow readers! She was special ...in failing.Then this fail-example-of-women got an annoying boyfriend, Heath who is always drunk >.&l
Let me tell you the whole story in pictures.Enjoy :)(I don't know why, but some of the pics are not coming, sorry for that!)MARKED -THE REAL STORY.Once upon a time, there was this stupid, smart-ass girl named Zoey who was marked as a vampyre.
She was special ...in failing.Then this fail-example-of-women got an annoying boyfriend, Heath who is always drunk >.<[image error]She joined this so called vampyre school, which had, as you all know, failure students.
[image error]She made really amazing friends, like, Damien the gay!
Yay. How unpredictable -_-[image error]Book ends, happily ever after.This book was:And I will give this book (1.5/5 stars):
Okay, I'm going to be posting gifs on this review because this book was just too much.My overall expression after reading up to 150 pages:I wish I could give this 'no star' or something of the sort.
Not heavily like those loser girls who think that plastering on black eyeliner makes them look cool.
I'd just shoved my sociology book back in my cubbie (okay, I know that Damien and Neferet called them cabinets, but come on -- they totally remind me of the cubbies we used to have in kindergarten)...'Oh, God...'The door opened an oh my sweet lord I do believe my heart totally stopped beating.
Hypersexed, boy-crazy, annoying teens. Plus some uninteresting supernatural stuff every once in awhile. For a series that involves so many teenagers having sex, these books sure aren't very sexy.
About 5 years ago when I first read this series, I powered through them and while I recognised they were problematic, I still consider them a guilty pleasure (the books are just so BAD and fun) 1.5 stars are purely for how trashy/fun this book was.
It's homophobic (yes I know there's a gay character but the 'joke' at the beginning saying he isn't really a guy because of this is really really fucking bad), it has plenty of slut shaming, Zoey has issues with the word shit (she says POOPIE ffs) yet has no problem calling Aphrodite a slut every five seconds.
Idk, it was fun but it's so so bad as well.
If you were looking for books that embody rape culture , slut-shaming and overall being a terrible human being - this book is for you .
To publish a book , with a person speaking like this is not only rude , and ignorant but leaves a bad impression to the young women who read this.
(Kinda like those girls who have sex with everyone and think that they're not going to get pregnant or get a really nasty STD that eats your brains and stuff.
Stop Slut Shaming.
Her group of friends are like her and there was no one person amongst them that I actually liked- I know having a special MC is a thing in Ya but this was just ridiculous.
It was so annoying how literally everyone she speaks to, reminds her of how special/different she was.- I wanted to read this book because of the vampire storyline but there was hardly any present in this.
This book actually removed all the good parts of being a vampire (the transformation, having fangs, just overall, looking scary).
It was written about the same time as Twilight (maybe a couple of years later), but Twilight was SO MUCH better.
This was written by a teenager and her mother, who was a well-known fantasy author before this series?
Is this simply evidence of bad writing and not being able to come up with better descriptions?Look, obviously I don't know what I'm talking about because this series was WILDLY famous and popular.
Just because a teenager CAN act a certain way doesn't mean they should.
We can do better and expect more from young adults.
I read just under half of Marked this morning, then set it gently aside and stared at the wall in a numb silence for a while.
Marked is, quite simply, the worst book I have ever read in my entire life.
P.C. Cast actually thanked her daughter for making sure they sounded like teenagers.
She actually thanked – for making sure – excuse me please while I go and die in a corner.
One of the author comments on the back proclaims Marked's hot and funny darkness.
That is what it was like reading Marked, painfully navigating my way through it trying to find a plot, character development, tension, excitement, drama, hell anything!
I know, I can't believe I read this book either.
I've read all of them--the six that have been published.
Because I'm a moron, that's why.Seriously, this is the worst YA vampire--I mean vampyre--series I've read (so far).
While there are elements in this series that are interesting, it's nothing special.
I mean, vampyres that control the elements?
Richelle Mead already did that, just much, much, much better.
Much better.
I haven't read any of P.C. Cast's other books--the books she wrote by herself.
But I've read a short story written by Kristen Cast.
Thus, proving that if the world does end in 2012 it wouldn't be that great of a loss since human creativity has reached its peak.House of Night is about an arrogant -itch named Zoey Redbird, who gets marked by a vampire tracker and becomes the chosen one.
[PDF p.8-9:]-Ah yes, insulting goths, emos and people who wear black in a vampire book.
Look I have no problem with girls who are into the whole abstinence thing and don't like oral sex.
Let us please bury the fact I gave Marked four stars upon first reading; I was only 14 or 15 at the time and in that stage of adolescence-- the fangirling, over-excitable stage which no person wants to look back on.
Gah. So embarrassing.But then, a few days ago, I stumbled upon Marked again in the library.
I was even kind of excited, because I had fond memories of staying up all night to devour the pages of this series.
The slut-shaming; the name-dropping; the stereotypes; the pre-teen writing; the glorification of the protagonist and demonisation of her rival....what other conclusion could I come to?Only one.This book....is a GREAT BIG STEAMING PILE OF TURD.That is all.
The author is clearly trying to win over the wiccan-teen demographic, while appealing to those who loved the Twilight series.
I plan to read the rest of the series, not because the story was terribly alluring, or the characters very interesting, but because I'd like to see if the author evolves as a writer.
I'm also interested in seeing whether she decides to scratch her attempts at "relating" to young readers by dropping pop culture references awkwardly throughout the novel (Sarah Jessica Parker, Ashley Simpson, America's Next Top Model, Steve Madden flats....this book is going to be dated in less than three years).
This probably one of the worst books I have ever read...
It was horrible.
The writing was stupid.
If you like to read a grown woman try to talk like a teenager then this is for you..
I mean I felt stupid after reading some of this.
This mother/daughter writing team needs to rethink working together again.
My daughter will not read these books.
Heck I don't even think adults would want to read this..
If you want a good series read Twilight or Blue Bloods series.
I AM RETURNING ALL 4 BOOKS BACK TO THE STORE!
ABSOLUTELY HORRIBLE..
Zoey becomes marked in a special way - the Goddess Nyx has given her a special responsibility and added gifts; which she'll need, because something's not right at the House of Night, and her own mentor and High Priestess may not be the gentle, caring mother-figure she makes herself out to be.What I especially liked about this book was how it handles issues relevant to teenagers.
Also, to be perfectly clear on this point, despite what you might have read, there is no sex in this book, or the sequel (and even if there was, I think it would be handled very maturely).
So my theory is this - Overly hyped books like House of Night and Mortal Instruments were released near 2005 when there were very few YA Fantasy books and that's the reason these books are so famous.
So, House of Night.This book had a weak plot, weak as in  pointless plot.Why did Zoey get 'Marked'?
But obviously our lead survives it because she was given the mark by Nyx for not-even-author-knows-what reason.The writing - its irritating!
The book covers the events of 2 or 3 days but in that short span of time itself Zoey finds a soul-mate.
This book was so bad, I wanted to quit reading it, but then I could not have fairly rated it.
So despite my better judgment - I read on, wincing all the way!Marked tries so hard to be hip - but "like totally" fails.
And some of it, like this book, is YA crap.The main character was also very poorly created.
Great example of how a mom/teacher (PC Cast) who writes a book with her college-age daughter (the book says it was Kristen Cast who tried to infuse the book with teen verbiage) does not work out well!
Every time I so much as think about this book, or this series in general, I suddenly have the urge to take a nine iron to an old lady, or set a kitten on fire or something else just as random and pointless that won’t actually solve my hatred towards this piece of crap but will help release some of my anger because Zoey is only a fictional character and I can’t actually kill her will a dull axe.
I actually took the liberty to tab every single annoying line in Marked, and here is how many post-its I wasted:My post-its are separated into a few main categories:-World building-Idiot-Special snowflake/Mary Sue-Judging-Stereotyping-Name droppingI will address each of them individually, but first:The plotJoin idiot Zoey Redbird, as she embarks on a boring heroic quest to kick a slutty ho out of the student council.After Zoey Redbird was mysteriously marked, she goes to a fucking boarding school for vampyres.
From the blurb: The House of Night series is set in a world very much like our own, except in 16-year-old Zoey Redbird's world, vampyres have always existed.Sure, why the fuck not?
Do not read this book, unless you genuinely want to waste 306 pages of reading time.I was going to stop giving bad reviews to books I don’t like because I hate the idea of putting books down, but future victims of bad reviews, can have this book to thank.Oh and one more thing, there is one line that truly, truly PISSED ME OFF!!'Two girls were standing behind her, dressed in much the same way.
This whole series is a joke, whoever thought it was a good idea to turn it into a movie should have the blood sucked out of them.
Our heroine comes from a troubled family, longs for a place to belong, is marked as incredibly and shockingly extraordinary amongst her new peers, butts heads with the queen of the school who is also the flatly drawn villainess, immediately catches the eye of the hottest guy at school who is also the ex of our villainess, shows remarkable powers and wields them with a confidence and skill even the most advanced prodigy would not have after one day in a new world with new rules (after suffering from slight self-esteem issues easily erased by her upbeat and encouraging friends), and is wise beyond her years leading her to take on the benevolent savior leader role amongst her friends and eventually the entire school.The author captures the teenage voice well enough (though it did seem she was trying a bit hard at times), but all the pop culture references got annoying.
Κάτι άλλο που μου έκανε (αστεία αυτή την φορά) εντύπωση είναι το οτι οι συγγραφείς του βιβλίου, οι Καστ, προσπάθησαν να κάνουν το βιβλίο κουλ για τους εφήβους, αλλά είναι φανερό ότι το έγραψε μάνα και κόρη… εκεί τα θέματα ηθικής περιπλέκονται λίγο και το αποτέλεσμα τελικά είναι λιγάκι… ανώριμο; μη αληθινό ίσως; … όπως το (συγχωρέστε με…) να βάλουμε στο βιβλίο τον στοματικό έρωτα, αλλά σε όλο το βιβλίο οι έφηβοι μεταξύ τους, αγόρια κορίτσια να το αναφέρουν ως στοματικό έρωτα (δεν μπορώ να φανταστώ ενα έφηβο αγόρι να μιλάει με τον κολλητό του και να χρησιμοποιεί αυτη την έκφραση...
Ή να βάλουμε στο βιβλίο την μαριχουάνα, αλλά η ηρωίδα να βγάζει ένα λογύδριο για το ποοοοσο βλάκες και χαμένα κορμιά είναι όσα αγόρια την καπνίζουν και πόσο τσούλες τα κορίτσια (ναι μαμά η ηρωίδα μου είναι κουλ βαμπίρ, αλλά μακριά μου όλα αυτά τα κακά του διαβόλου πράγματα).
Hopefully reading this book hasn't permanently damaged my own writing.One of the most annoying things was Zoey, the main character, had a tendency to think in random tangents (hee hee, see that alliteration!
By the end of the book I felt like ripping my hair out every time I read one of the following: "Oh, hell!" "Oh, crap!" "Ah, crap." "*insert unnecessary cuss word!* Seriously, Cast pretty much included a cuss word or reference to sex or drugs in every other sentence.
I got her started with vampire books sometime back with Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse books.
She gave me one of Richelle Mead's Vampire Academy books & I liked it, so figured this series might be okay, too.
I am not a religious person, but I do believe in God and this book seemed to paint all "People of Faith", as they were referred to in the book, with the "evil-stupid-intolerant" brush.
While basically preaching a tolerance of everything else, the "People of Faith" were excluded.
Zulüm 2009'da başladı. Lise döneminde okumuştum bu serinin bir kısmını. Lise döneminden önce okuduğum kitaplar kaliteliyken (bkz. Felsefe Taşı, Yüzük Kardeşliği, Sol Ayağım, Beyaz Diş vs.), lise döneminde ergenlikle beraber hormonlarım devreye girmiş... Utanarak yorum ve puan giriyorum. Ergenlik kötü bir şeydir.
Having a lot of different feelings...
