https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1057089.The_Heavenly_City_of_the_Eighteenth_Century_Philosophers
في فيديو، ذو لونين، أبيض وأسود، وكاميرا تبدو للعيان بأنها عريقة، وصورة منغبشة، وصوت غير واضح وخفيض، جاءت بضعة كلمات للفيلسوف الألماني "مارتن هيدجر" (الذي ينتابني الخوف والعار بمجرد ذكر اسمه) تلخّص أزمة البشرية جمعاء، منذ آلاف السنين، حتى الآن.بصوت أجش، ووجه جامد، وملامح متغضنة، ونظرات ثابتة توحي بالقلق، والتعب، والإرهاق، بدأ هيدجر يلقي بكلمات بسيطة جميلة، توضح ولا شك مأساتنا، مأساة بدأت منذ قرن مضى، ولا زالت إلى الآن تعرض لنا بكل وقت وحينقال هيدجر، متنبئًا، بأنه، وإن كان الإنسان، فيما مضى، يهوى تقديس كل شيء، كل غامض، كل صعب، كل ما لا يفهم، ويسميه "الدين" ويضيف عليه هالة من الاحترام والتقدير، تحت اسم المقدس والله، فإن أزمة العصر الحالي، والقادم، ستكون - لا بخلع هالة التقديس عن الدين - أو التبشير بعصر العقل والإلحاد - وإنما ستكون بخلق مقدسات جديدة.
مدينة أفلاطون الفاضلة كيف السبيل إليها عن طريق الكهنوت الدينى ؟أم السيطرة الكاملة للعقل من اصدار الم
Becker's view that "climate of opinion" plays such a dominating role is doubtful - it may *seem* to be what makes Dante or Thomas nearly unreadable (-- though they are not, in fact, unreadable when one reads them slowly....); but then, if that were so, one couldn't explain the utter clarity one gets from reading Plato -- where there is no obscuring "climate of opinion" to blame for one's incomprehension.
The problem with Thomas and Dante is simply that their presuppositions -- which *can* be grasped and rationally apprehended, if one has the requisite philosophical background - are unfamiliar to the modern reader.

I've always been attracted to books which challenge the received truths taught in the public schools I attended. We've all the tendency to view the past in terms of the present, be it our personal or social histories. Becker particularly challenges, albeit indirectly, many of the myths held dear by Americans about our founders and their beliefs.
From 1931, this is an example of what we might call Enlightenment-Dismantling: the style of intellectual history that tries to undermine glib "rationalist" generalities by putting the 18th century in to context, showing the religious origin of various strands, etc. John Gray has now found his niche purveying a pop version.
Just outstanding.
What a remarkable and helpful little book. You could read it in a couple of sittings. But it is so meaty that I would recommend reading it slow.
A brief, blistering book that deconstructs and dismantles the typical Enlightenment narrative that the Age of Reason thoroughly expelled superstition and religion; rather, Enlightenment thinkers merely replaced Christianity with their own ideal utopia.
This is witnessed in the optimism surrounding the idea of progress - just like Christians set their hopes on Heaven, the Enlightenment confidently declared that humanity was always improving.
The French Revolution, virulently anti-Christian, created its own "priests" and "holy days," etc...In the end, the Enlightenment is just as guilty of "dogmatism" as the Middle Ages.
In the fourth, his speculations about the future history of the Communist Revolution, and what it may come to mean for future generations when its lessons are generalized across western society, also feels flat.Becker’s second and third lectures – the best parts of the book – focus on the eighteenth century’s radically revised notions of nature and history.
Becker writes (well, "speaks," since these are transcribed lectures) in a clear and compelling tone, leaving me in the rare position of wishing that a non-fiction book was longer.
Becker's main argument is that for all their atheism and anti-Christian (even intentionally anti-Christian) beliefs, the rationalist philosophers of the 18th century had just as much hope in a redeeming future as any fundamentalist Christian.
This book is about Eighteenth century philosophers, with Enlightenment ideals, coming out of the superstitious times where religion ruled, trying, with varying degrees of self-consciousness, to replace the sovereignty of God, religion and the afterlife as the defining motivations, teleology, and philosophical underpinnings of mankind's development and artistic integrity.
The book has a lot of good information on this thesis, especially on how certain philosophers were actually trying to not just replace God and religion, but turn new secular filler philosophies into religious placeholders, so that they could hold the exact same place.
In the first argument, Becker claims the philosophes are not scientists at all, but mere theologians in scientists’ clothing who appropriated Christian structures of thought, crudely replacing the word "God" with the word "nature." The scintific atheism of enlightenment philosophes is therefore illusory and naive.
He also fails to acknowledge his previous argument that science was quintessentially Christian.Perhaps these points could have been compatible as a paradox, but Becker does not address the tension between them, nor does he nuance their presentation in a way that is not directly self-contradictory.
Becker's theme is that the heavenly city of St. Augustine was replaced with the religion of humanity and the Age of Reason in the 18th Century, and that reason proved just as futile as faith in perfecting humanity and creating a perfect world. This did not stop Hegel and Marx in the next century from projecting a new world in which conflict would be eliminated. One interpretation of Becker's' theme is that the world is cyclic, not linear, and that conflict, not perfection, is our legacy and our future. Becker's book suffers from too much obscure filler material.
No wonder this book is considered a classic! Not only educational, but a pleasure to read. Mellifluous writing--originally given as a series of lectures.Becker argues persuasively that the "climate of opinion" of the 18th century Philosophes (Voltaire, Montesquieu, Diderot, Condorcet, Hume, Franklin, etc.) was closer to the medieval climate of opinion, religious dogmatism, which they detested, than to the climate of opinion of the West in the 19th and 20th centuries.Highly recommended.
A great read. A page-turner. Brings to light much ignored aspects of the philosophes beliefs. PS I think the title is a bit misleading. I wish the name was The Heavenly City of the Eighteenth-Century Philosophes, for it would bring the book into a focused direction. Carl Becker himself makes this distinction in the beginning of the book, but chooses to follow thorough with the capitalized "Philosophers" instead of the much nuanced philosophes. An excellent and engulfing read.
A nice little philosophy book.
اصابني الكتاب بحنين الى عصر الانسانية،..
الحكمة والعقل في القرن الثامن عشر والمستقبل سيقتصر على الصراع ونقص الكمال
Thesis: that the divide between Enlightenment philosophers and medieval thinkers was not so great as the Enlightenment philosophers thought.
One of my favorite books, largely because the author writes so gracefully; it is an insteresting analysis, though very much a product of the 1st half of the 20th century. Still, it is a joy to read.
One of my absolute favorites! We never really left the Medieval period. :) Our "modern" thinking, isn't really all that modern.
وما التاريخ الا حاصل احتيال الأحياء علي الموتي
