https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234724.Shadow_Puppets
You have to marry someone of the opposite sex, even if you don't love them and have babies, so have babies because that's the whole point of life is to just have babies, babies and more babies.Bean-Ok, I will have babies.Other stuff happens.
You have a gay dude lecturing them about marrying people of the opposite sex and having babies, but how the hell is being two legal gay people together such a bad thing but two CHILDREN marrying such a good thing?
Never mind that them having kids didn't even make any kind of logical sense in this book?
I hate that kind of plot SO MUCH!
AND LET ME MAKE THIS PERFECTLY CLEAR... For those of you interested in learning to make hand “shadow puppets” or reading more about the movie starring “James Marsters,” I invite you to check out their entries in Wikipedia for more information. For those interested in the origin and history of the band consisting of Alex Turner of the Arctic Monkeys and Miles Kane of The Rascals...well...you should be ashamed of yourselves and I will not be an enabler for you. For this review, we will be discuss
For those of you interested in learning to make hand “shadow puppets” or reading more about the movie starring “James Marsters,” I invite you to check out their entries in Wikipedia for more information.
For those that have not read the Shadow of the Hegemon, there may be some spoilers below as the plot summary deals with the consequences of the previous book.
As with the previous book, the plot unfolds as a massive game of “Risk” with Peter, Bean and their allies trying break the Chinese power bloc and create conditions for a truly peaceful and unified Earth.
Standing in their way is the massive Chinese army and the central villain of the Shadow series, Achilles.
I admit that I read half of it six months ago, was so bored with it that I put it down again, and then just recently finished it up because I didn't have anything else I was willing to commit myself to.What makes this book awful, even amongst the relative standards of Orson Scott Card (who is not exactly a spry writer), is the writing.
The entire book consists of one unrealistic, idiotic, poorly-written dialogue after another, where two "geniuses" decide to hash over strategy again and again and again.
Much as I flit from one project to another, leaving things unfinished, books and movies deserved my full efforts, no matter how abysmal they might seem in the beginning.
Life is too short to finish a book that doesn't grip you.
It's definitely too short to finish a book that makes you roll your eyes, chapter after chapter.
Orson Scott Card, of whose religious and political beliefs I was blissfully unaware until after my first reading of the original Ender saga, claims not to preach through his fiction, unless he says he is (as in the Alvin Maker series, which is based loosely on the life of Joseph Smith).
După ce află că Peter plănuiește să-l elibereze pe Ahile din mâinile chinezilor pentru a-l aduce în fața unui tribunal internațional, Bean și Petra se hotărăsc să se ascundă, încredințați că acesta își va urmări răzbunarea.Temându-se că modificarea genetică ce a declanșat uluitoarea sa dezvoltare intelectuală va fi transmisă împreună cu toate consecințele ei și copiilor săi, Bean refuză la început propunerea Petrei de a-și întemeia o familie, dar acceptă până la urmă să se căsătorească cu ea, cu condiția ca toți embrionii viitorilor copii să fie testați pentru Cheia lui Anton.
Bean, al cărui timp se scurge încet, încet și încercă să își găsească țelul, folosul vieții, Petra, a cărei evoluție ca personaj m-a întristat și Peter, adolescentul care încă încearcă să se elibereze de umbra succesului fratelui său.
The Shadow series was a nice change of pace, but the previous book had been a bit slow in the action, feeling like the author was treading water.Card got a fire lit under his butt.
The characters have senses of humor that had me laugh out loud on several occasions, and the end of the book is quite rewarding, making the book simply *feel* like it was worth reading.This was certainly my favorite book of Card's since Ender's Shadow, and I think this one pulls more adeptly at the emotions.
As the Ender series progresses each book gets significantly sadder.
She cracked because Ender pushed her hardest (besides Bean who we know is a genetically altered super human who could take it).
In fact, the theme of women stopping work or contributions to the world and just having babies is mentioned to EVERY female character including the brave Virlomi and Mama Wiggin.
Okay, so we have aliens, space travel, and a gay couple can't get a surrogate and have as many babies as they want?
I could seriously write a book about how he destroyed Petra.
Peter Wiggin is a nearly-powerless Hegemon working in Brazil; the great powers are doing whatever the hell they want; Achilles, the great mastermind behind it all, has been freed from the Chinese and taken to the one place he hasn’t had an opportunity to screw over yet; and Bean is in love.
What we aren’t told is how old Bean is.
Last time we got numbers, at the start of Ender’s Shadow, Bean was four.
What is he, eight?Nonetheless, Bean is a married boy man, and his wife (wife?!) Petra wants to have babies.
But Petra wants to have his babies.
This book would be how Orson Scott Card would novelize watching Bella and Edward play Risk. So, you know, if you're into that kind of thing it's really gonna be your cup of tea. I skimmed over all the "zomg baaaaaaaaaaaabeeeeeeeeeees" angst and just read the political/military strategy sections. Not the strongest book in the series.
This book is
This is the first truly bad book I have read by Card.
The story from the political standpoint is not terrible.
It is just a "what-if" future political thriller in the Enderverse.
However, Card is basically telling you that you should have babies, and that babies are the most important thing in the world, and if you don't have all the babies you can have by the time you die you are selfish and stupid and don't really know what life is all about.OK.
You like babies.I think my thoughts on this book are tainted by the author's often annoyingly one-dimensional religious philosophy, on which he has written numerous essays and such.
The Post-Bugger war for control of Earth grinds on, but Card's main interest seems to lie in philosophizing at length--mostly about the innate, evolutionary need of humans to reproduce, whether they like it or not, and he uses formerly-interesting characters Bean and Petra as his mouthpieces. The villain, Achilles, becomes even more of a ridiculous bugbear, and less of an actual character.I have a great deal of respect for Card as an author, but the "Shadow" series, after such a magnificent start in Ender's Shadow, is increasingly looking like a good idea gone horribly awry.
The opinions espoused on passing on genetics in this book rival the weird rantings from Xenocide when it comes to sheer needless ranting.
Unfortunately, this book lacks the solid plot buried beneath the blather.Card is still playing a game of Risk with world powers, and so little is done to properly develop these characters that at times only the names remind me that there's been a change in scene.
A big chunk of the plot is about Bean breeding.
Card has gone from a ranting Neocon throwing his opinions into a story where they didn't necessarily fit straight into creepy old man territory.
But dialogue in this book degenerated into a multi-page rant about a man marrying a woman is the meaning of life.
Procreation is the meaning of the union, although he 'generously' allows that "even old people beyond mating" and people unable to have children can be "woven into the fabric".
Apparently we all have "...a deep hunger to find a person from that strange, terrifyingly other sex and make a life together."Ugh.
OSC's finest efforts in this series are likely behind him (Ender's Game, Speaker for the Dead, Ender's Shadow) while this volume more closely resembles the remainder.
Trite dialogue, over-writing, long dull stretches, and confounding and baffling leaps of logic drag the story down.
It is said that this book and Shadow of the Hegemon were originally one book but were split in order to allow the story to be expanded (or possibly to sell more books?); they probably should have been condensed back into one book for purposes of clarity and brevity.
Ender's Game is one of most favorite books. It was so good that Card managed to tell the same exact story all over again from a different angle (with Ender's Shadow) and still make it fantastic. Shadow of the Hegemon was fine.But this--this is a miserable book. It made me physically ill. He took the characters that I knew and loved and made them spout hetero-normative bullshit and "BABIES BABIES BAAAAAABIES," said Petra.I haven't disliked a book this much in recent memory. 2/3rds in and I couldn't finish it.
The single worst reading experience of my adult life.If you're like me and blissfully ignored Orson Scott Card's personal politics and enjoyed both the Ender and Shadow series, your ignorance ends sharply with Shadow Puppets.
There was no redeeming aspect to Shadow Puppets, just unrecognizable characterization, overwrought dialogue about battle philosophies for battles that never take place, and lots of preaching.
I don't care how many of his beliefs you agree or disagree with, none of those things had a place in this story, and it is sadly the last book I will read in the Enderverse.
Fundamentally, I don't think I can understand Orson Scott Card.
Even if Bean is able to get into Achille's head, I don't get why Card is writing such awful novels.
The book is shallow, shamelessly upholds and proselytizes Christian values but you don't think about it because Card is using an atheist character to do it.
While Speaker and Xenocide dealt with interesting science and went fairly deep philosophically (considering the type of book and market they had), this was just a flop.
A mere jog to keep the Enderverse alive.
I may bookshelf Game, Speaker, Xeno, and Shadow for read-overs.

The character of Achilles has jumped the shark several books ago and is even more ridiculous in Shadow Puppets, succeeding in basically kidnapping the world government for himself, despite the fact that he has no support left anywhere in the world.The geopolitical stuff with the war in Indochina is fairly interesting (now the Muslim coalition is entering the fray), as are Peter Wiggin's attempts to reclaim the Hegemony for himself.
Also, non-implanted, possibly unfertilized eggs in a tube are children, in case you didn't know.Since this is the case, battleschoolers Bean and Petra are of course compelled to make some babies, like good little Mormons.
It is still a lot of fun though if you're willing to look past a few classic OSC-face-palm moments.
The occasional bouts of slight misogyny or vague homophobia completely ruin OSC's books for some, and that's a real shame because, in my opinion, the moments of brilliance far outweigh the gaffes.
There is a lot to love about this book.I firmly believe that this man has a good heart and means no wrong, but he is from a different era and draws from a lineage of authors who were far more blatant in their misogyny.
I really wanted to finish this one but honestly I can't.Enders Game was a great read.Enders Shadow for me was even better with a completely different viewpoint on essentially the same backstory.
Shadow of the Hegemon picked up after the Formic Wars and - while being completely earthbound - still managed to keep me engaged.
All about Bean in hiding, trying to rescue his former Battleschool comrades form insane Achilles.All good and fine but Shadow Puppets killed it for me after seven chapters.
It's just Achilles, Achilles, Achilles - we'll except Petra who turned from smart Battleschooler to must-make-babies-with-bean freak.Maybe I'll give this another try but not in the near future.
I didn't find any of the romance between the characters very believable, and when Bean occasionally comes out with a sexy comment it just sounds ridiculous.
This book features a gay character who, after openly explaining that he was attracted to men, not women, begins spouting stuff straight out of the mouths of anti-gay campaigners: namely, that what gives life meaning is to join with someone of the other gender and leave behind a family with them.
This is very much a "straight" view of romance, and to have it coming from a gay character's mouth was unbelievable--and a blatant attempt on Card's part to preach his own views.
Third in the Shadow series, this book follows Bean and other characters from Ender's Game / Ender's Shadow, including Ender's brother Peter, and looks at events that occured on Earth after Ender went off into space.The importance of Ender is repeatedly stressed, and gets more and more awkward throughout the Shadow series because Ender is, well, gone.
This and the other Shadow books are more geopolitical, and therefore boring (to me - personal preference).
I've just never been a current events type of gal.
But if you like that kind of thing, and you want some more great Card writing, along with sweet political machinations and intrigue, then you'll enjoy this.
a complete disappointment. witness the demise of a great science fiction premise to a rambling religious tome.
Ok, so yeah, I guess he can do what he does and Petra's probably closer to 18-19 (GENEROUS) but it just doesn't feel like enough time has passed, especially since they made such a big deal about Bean's age (or lack thereof) in Ender's Shadow.
(I calculated that he MIGHT have been 10 at the end of that book, but probably more like 9-ish and then someone mentions that it's been 3 years since the battle, so that lands him at 13 and maybe another year somewhere in there?) I suppose it doesn't matter in the long run, but it feels like Card REALLY wanted to write about the schmoopy stuff and kind of smashed that into the plan for these characters.
Orson Scott Card picks right up where he left off in Shadow of the Hegemon; and continues telling the story of Bean, and the post formic war world.
This has always been my favorite series and I think OSC does a good job continuing the series with an interesting story and amazing characters.
For those who have read Ender's Shadow, and Shadow of the Hegemon, should continue in reading the series because it is done very skillfully and is absolutely worth your time.
Well, what a disappointment this book turned out to be.A bit more context; after reading Ender’s Game I was blown away and eager for more.
Much closer in tone and time, Ender’s Shadow and Shadow of the Hegemon proved to be the sequels I was looking for.Then this book happened.The geopolitics and strategy that so gripped me was relegated to the back seat, displaced by the story of two young people deciding whether or not to have a baby.
It’s quite clear that he has gone through puberty, even though the first two books established that he never would; that he would die a giant child.Then, of course, there are Orson Scott Card’s personal politics.
This was slightly less intersting than the previous book.
The war was old news, Bean was no longer an important part of that war, there was not as much of Achilles and when there was he seemed pathetic instead of impressive, and having Bean and Petra married lost some of the fun.But, there was still lots of interesting things happening in the war, and, married or not, Bean and Petra are great characters.
And the ending was great.
Bean handle himself well even though he was winging it, it was really the only way to beat Achilles, and it was about time.
I'm going through the 10 novels in the Enderverse, and this one is my 8th (Shadow of the Giant, and Shadows in Flight are the last two).
I really liked the previous 7 books, but this book was just a dud.We get it, Card.
You think a sperm and egg are a full human being.
I didn't really need a Muslim character discussing this at length...then an Othodox Christian discussing this at length...then the Catholic Church's position agreeing with this....then somehow Bean the Atheist jumps on the pro-life bandwagon......more than 50% of this book centers around fertilized eggs and their absolute sanctity of life......just came off as a drag, despite a conclusive and interesting ending.
