https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22417.Transmetropolitan_Vol_2
The adventures of our unorthodox Journalist continues!Spider Jerusalem is a certified douchebag. But like every celebrity douchebags, he is also a huge hit. Everybody loves his gloriously controversial column "I hate it here": A Column which spider uses to tear a new one for some unlucky sap or a corporation. So yea, he had made some enemies. But that's the life of a journalist. But today, Some of his enemies are going to fight back. Remember Channon? Spider's Assistant. The first chapter kicks
The adventures of our unorthodox Journalist continues!Spider Jerusalem is a certified douchebag.
A place where the human population is in billions, but humanity is scarce to find.The main story arc spanning three parts is one hell of a ride, a reminiscent of Guy Ritchie's movies like Snatch and it is filled with unique characters and absurd situation.For example, there is a genetically enhanced police dog who has a bone to pick with a spider.
This might surprise some people, but dark and angry as his work often is, I think of Ellis as a very hopeful writer. So often his work seems to say, "Look at this. Look how awful this is. Look how shitty people can be. We can do better than this. We're all better than this."
This second volume delivers some of the most memorable short stories of the series (feat.
nanotech consciousness downloads; human culture reservations; people awaking from cryogenic freezing to a hostile future: “Fuck off back to your freezers!”), as Ellis and Robertson are firing on all cylinders.
It may not be perfect, but it’s the kind of wild ride that doesn’t have to be.
The one thing that actually bothers me is the story’s underlying macho ethos: “How do you know I can’t kill you by staring hard?” Then again, this macho ethos probably allowed the series to succeed in an industry obsessed with superheroes.
Like the first collection, the second volume of Transmetropolitan is imaginative and acerbic, often funny, often bitter, sometimes brilliant.
There's an amazing story tucked in the middle about a woman who's been awakened from cry-freeze into a world that could care less about her that's astonishingly moving, fully imagined, and simply one of the best things I can ever recall reading by Ellis.
To me, the two most striking things about Transmet is how bitter it often is, and how deeply imaginative it is.
So, for example, he doesn't just write about the ability to move your consciousness into a cloud of technology, but about the impact it would have on the people left behind.
This second volume is where we really see the series find its feet and we launch fully into the weird and wonderful world of Spider Jerusalem's with a tale about humans wanting to turn into sentient gas clouds, the harrowing story of the cryogenically unfrozen, synthetic reservations where you could choose to live in a past civilisation, and finally a three part story of Spider's ex-wife's revenge.All of the stories have the verbal acrobatics and freewheeling genius level writing of Warren Ellis in every panel helped along with Darick Robertson's superb artwork.
He's a hard guy to like sometimes but I think that so far Ellis is doing a pretty good job of walking the line between edgy asshole and guy who is trying to do the 'right' thing [at least as he sees it].
I think mostly he just has problems visualizing future consequences for anyone who is not himself [and sometimes even for himself].Favorite panel:I mean on the one hand poor Spider but on the other hand some dudes just cannot take no for an answer and you never know which is which so like ...
Jako zabavan strip, pun interesantnih vizija budućnosti. Jedino bih više voleo da svaki volume ima jedinstven zaplet, ovako je pre zbirka kratkih priča.
Warren Ellis, Transmetropolitan: Lust for Life (DC, 1998)The great thing about Transmetropolitan is that Warren Ellis seems to remember something that no satirist since Mark Twain has gotten right; while the heart of any satire is soaked in acid, the surface is supposed to be funny.
And while Transmetropolitan mirrors most modern satire in that the heart is certainly soaked with acid, it is that rarest of commodities in that it also gets the surface bit right; it's damned funny, even as it wants to break our hearts.
We got a good saying in Bosnia going: "once you have the finger, you want the whole hand" and that's exactly how humans work.
Moravec figured you just didn't, then made the next leap: you could put a human mind into an entirely artificial body--and that person would still be a person.
You could download a mind from out of its--let's face it--eminently crappy, badly designed human body and into a seriously useful and functionally immortal artificial form.Then, in the next few issues, the volume explores the possibility of freezing oneself and what happens once you awaken, suddenly in a completely changed world.
As his past is being fleshed out (I wonder now who is worse, Spider or Preacher's Cassidy) Channon, his assistant was brokenhearted because her boyfriend left her to become, err, a fog.
The crazy things do also build up like a crazy conference of religions, reservations within the city and a radioactive suit-clad men who have a rather weird perception of taboos.I loved the writing, though I think it would take a couple more volumes for me to truly dig the journalism-based plot of Transmetropolitan.
I was afraid to be let down by volume two, but I was agreeably surprised to find a completely different angle on Spider Jerusalem and his own brand of social criticism.
LUST FOR LIFE is more character oriented, but it's also going deeper into how the City is affecting him and driving him to great streaks of chaos and violence.
LUST FOR LIFE is about humans going insane trying to find their rightful place in a world that they've driven off the rails and the embodiment of intellectual integrity that is forever condemned to report on their demise in order to make a living.
I'm not sure why the first 69 pages of this volume were essentially a recap of volume one, but . . . whatever. Plenty of good and crazy times to be had in this one. I can't even begin to imagine what's next.
So in this volume Spider Jerusalem manages to not come across as such a jerk probably because he tries to help his assistant come to terms with losing a boyfriend and more importantly because several people are trying to kill him.
Some of the ideas within are intriguing even if not fully detailed yet: fogletting (your life essence is put into a nanobot cloud), cryogenic preservation (with a focus on 20th century types awakened and in for a major culture shock), more sentient animals and the like (one being a bulldog cop that wants to kill Spider for neutering him).
This volume does a great job giving you an idea of the kind of person that Spider is and it isn't always pretty.
There's a dark side to a man who won't let a story go once he's gotten ahold of it and Ellis isn't afraid to show you every shade of grey in Spider.
It really just made Spider more appealing to me as a character.
I like getting to see the bad parts as well as the good parts of characters I care about and this volume gives you that without making you hate Spider, which is no easy task.
I liked the first half of Vol 2 more than the second.
It was very imaginative stories, such as a man being turned into a tiny cloud of nanobots, a woman coming back from cryogenic freezing to find out she's unwanted and alone (this is my favourite piece of the book, and one of the most powerful ones Ellis has written in my opinion), Spider Jerusalem visiting 'reservations' where people live as though they were in other native cultures, as a way to preserve them for eternity.It sure is a lot to take in, and feels like Ellis sure isn't lacking for things to observe about our modern society.
Even though it's set in the future, this is a commentary on our own society, and it isn't written by someone who likes the new technologically advanced but humanity deficient world.Looking forward to keeping along with the next volume.
Even better than volume 1.
Volume 2 was a bit of a mixed bag for me to be honest.
First of all there were three beautifully written standalone stories that really got to the heart of what is must be like to live in The City.
Our protagonist and main POV character Spider Jerusalem comes across really well in these stories.
Some of the story takes the recent shine off of Spider because he does not come off well here.
There was also some stuff with a talking police dog that is trying to track him down, bit it wasn't an enjoyable tale.
Volume 2 is more or less a collection of short stories of Spider's shenanigans. It's no less compelling, and allows Ellis (and the reader) to explore the crazy future only he could have dreamed up.
This sometimes confused the hell out of me 😑
I'm rereading it for the first time in about 8 years, I'll be reading all 9 (10?) collections and I imagine I'll feel the same as I did the first time, it's one of the most insightful, impressive, damming, polemic critiques of modern society you'll read.
Just because it is in comic book form doesn't make it any less a work of art and insight on the level of Catch 22 or 1984 or any other great work of satire and commentary.
And in the days of the Orange Cheeto President, this seems actually more pertinent than it did the first and second times I read it all those years ago.
This is not our future, it's basically our now.
Ellis calls this volume ‘Lust for Life’, but it ought to be titled ‘Lust for a Different Life’, because that’s precisely what his characters do in this book...
They hanker for the past or they yearn for the future.
There’s the heart-rending story of a woman who’s revived from a cryogenically frozen state and cast into a world so incomprehensibly advanced that it drives her insane.
There’s the frozen head of Spider’s ex-wife who chose to die in the hopes of returning someday to a world sans Spider, but her plan doesn’t exactly work out—like most things in life (or death!).
Doesn’t matter; life is hell either way, Ellis says.
This second volume is where we really see the series find its feet and we launch fully into the weird and wonderful world of Spider Jerusalem's with a tale about humans wanting to turn into sentient gas clouds, the harrowing story of the cryogenically unfrozen, synthetic reservations where you could choose to live in a past civilisation, and finally a three part story of Spider's ex-wife's revenge.All of the stories have the verbal acrobatics and freewheeling genius level writing of Warren Ellis in every panel helped along with Darick Robertson's superb artwork.
No one explores a f*cked up future like Warren Ellis.
Spider Jerusalem remains my favourite anti-hero of all time.
I'd been reading Warren Ellis's website then his twitter long before I got around to any of his actual works, and the transition from his online persona into the shoes of Spider Jerusalem was disconcertingly smooth :-D
Segundo tomo que compila los números 7 al 12 arrancando con tres geniales historias unitarias.
El segundo trata sobre la criogenización, la historia de una resucitada y su enfrentamiento al nuevo mundo, una locura monstruosa.
Los últimos tres son parte del arco "Freeze me with your kiss" donde se juntan varias tramas.
Se roban la cabeza congelada de la ex de Spider, aparece el hijo sin cabeza del mismo y a la vez es buscado por sicarios y perros policías que hablan.
No sólo se disfruta cada tomo, número, cada viñeta es un viaje al peor porvenir posible cargado de detalles retorcidos que dejan atónito al lector más cruel.

Spider is back in the city and writing about all the crazy shit society has birthed in the new future.
In this book Spider deals with downloading the human mind, cryogenic freezing, reservations for cultures, and his ex wife.
Its a wild book that even has a pissed off cop dog who is hunting down Spider.
It's really in your face with message and i often get board with the " humans suck and society is going to take a nose dive" message but the writing is so sharp its fun.
Transmetropolitan's second graphic novel outing is even better than the first. In particular, we get much more detail in the character of Spider Jerusalem, and there's a consistent underlying theme. As a journalist, Spider is a hero. And in order to do this he has to be both incredibly compassionate, and such a megalomaniac that he causes irreparable harm to those around him. This is a really interesting take on the nature of journalism and I found it to be much more compelling than the similarly themed Imperfectionists.
Probably my favorite Transmetropolitan paperback along with Gouge Away, Lonely City and the New Scum. It's just a wonderful read, and has some of the best stories before the presidential election kicks in and Callahan comes into scene. Ellis shows us in detail some of the more twisted aspects of the City.
This is the volume of Transmet that punched me both in the heart and stomach, that pulled me into the series and entrenched it as one of my all-time favorites. Bleak, heartbreaking, hopeful. This is where we get to see the love of humanity Spider tucks away and doesn't show to the masses. This is where we see what drives him.
I wasn't crazy about the final three piece plot, but the rest of them were golden. The artwork is wonderfully detailed, the background ads and intricacies are hilarious, and the character of Spider Jerusalem is one of my favorites now. Hell, even the cat cracks me up.I can't wait to get my boyfriend to read this series.
