https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574053.Amorelle
Good...but I've come to expect better from this author.
Usually, GLH doesn't get very theological, and, when she does, it doesn't go well. Not so here! She spoke a lot about how we can receive wisdom and guidance from God because of the work of Christ. There was a much greater emphasis on the Gospel than on God-fearing morality. This book also had much to say about choosing a spouse. There was still a bit of a rescue happening, but our heroine actually put thought into it.
There is something else going on in the external plot that drives the story just as much as the falling in love part.From the moment her father dies, Amorelle is at the mercy of other people whether they aretrying to match her up for marriage or turning her into a servant or forcing her into a horrid engagement.
When wealthy Garrison arrives, he is like the prince come to rescue her from her trials.There are parts of the book which were slow and at times it was agonizing to read how terribly Amorelle was put upon and preyed upon.
Many of GLH's heroines are plagued by unwanted suitor, but, partially due to the actions of a "friend," Amorelle is pursued by a whole pack of them.
Most of her dealings with them are amusing, but one of them is a Bad Man, who was somehow involved with her recently deceased father.If anyone who reads GLH worries about spoilers, you should skip the rest of this.
GLH is clearly a "seat of the pants" kind of writer, who sometimes changes direction halfway through or loses track of what she said before and pretends "that never happened," but this time the transition was smooth enough I just sat back and enjoyed the ride.
I really liked the Job and Cinderella and kindred-spirits twists in this book.
She made them more original of course but it was sweet to have it all bundled up together in one persons life and see God work His miracle and turn it all into His perfect plan for happyly-ever-after.Amorelle's sincerity her meekness her love for the Lord brought her uncle to love her and to find that tangible and precious relationship with the Lord.
Are you marrying for love and to your kindered-spirit?
Or are marrying a man like George and all those other men that only thought of Amorelle as convenient efficient and beautiful to have for themselves and to boast about??
Hott Synopsis:Left to fend for herself upon her father’s sudden death, Amorelle is distraught to learn that some the presumptuous but well-meaning members of his congregation have decided to take over by marrying her off to the first bidder and selling her treasures.
With little choice Amorelle does what she must.
She packs up her house and goes to her uncle’s.
But not all roads lead to a happy ending.Will these tumultuous time give Amorelle the faith she desires to lean on the God she so desperately needs?Hott Review:Amorelle is a bit of an odd story.
This book offers an interesting, easy read. My heart went out to Amorelle because it reflected similar experiences I have endured as a pastor's daughter. The story reveals how having patience and enduring in difficult circumstances leads to rewards. Lots of heartache but love comes in the end. A good read.
One of the books I read whilst living abroad on the very quiet island of Dominica. It was a pleasure to read. One of the stories I will never forget.This book holds personal memories for me and became a guide in a sense. Amorelle is such a wonderful story about love, lost and faith. There is a part of her in all of us that believes the world can be beautiful place.
This book is pretty easy to read and it has some funny parts. I'm only hundred pages into it. I do really like how they respect God, they have some good sayings regaurding faith as well, and the love of God.
Very good read. Mrs. Hill never fails to satisfy
The Grace Livingston Hill spell is never broken for me. I love books where characters in dire straits have happy endings through family and faith.
easy reading, love them all
One of my Favorites of Grace Livingston Hill :-)
What a wonderful portrayal of the difference between God’s perfect plans for us, and our foolish attempts at making our dreams come true. Our hearts are fickle and so often selfish. Once we know our worth in Christ, and submit to His wisdom, great joy is ours to have. Above all else, salvation in Christ is our greatest treasure. These truths, and many more, are richly evidenced in this book.
One of GLH's more cohesive novels. Her stories are so refreshing in this modern world. They don't take much brain power to read, but I do enjoy reading about people who strive to live righteously.
