https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91478.Summer_Knight
They include mean plant monsters, psycho fairies, pixies, unicorns and more.Harry Dresden, professional wizard, has practically become a recluse since he lost his girlfriend.
The wizards aren't thrilled about the war Dresden set off, and decide that the best way to end it is to throw Dresden to the vampires, unless he solves the case brought to him by a terrifying new client: Mab, Queen of the Unseelie Fey. To stop himself from becoming a reconciliation gift to the vampires, Harry must solve the murder of the human champion of Summer and prove that Mab is innocent of the crime.
With only a band of teenage werewolves, a pizza-loving fairy, and his friend, Lt. Karrin Murphy, to help him, Dresden must solve the crime before the fairies go to war with Chicago as ground zero.
2.75ish stars.I hope no one's offended if I call this series a guilty pleasure. :) There's finally some semblance of a coherent plot and as a result this is the best book so far. Drinking game for this book: every time Harry says the word "sensual" or one of its derivations.
I never considered reading about faeries, but it was a mandatory thing for me to do so because I really like the Dresden Files.
Based on the first three novels, Butcher is known for putting his own twists in the supernatural creatures.
I like his portrayal of the faeries, and it makes me want to read more of them.
I was not expecting to like faeries more than ghosts, but Butcher made them seem so cool.
I didn't find it phenomenal, but honestly I haven't read a good ending written by Butcher based on the four novels I've read of his.
Harry Dresden, a wizard-for-hire, is in the thick of it.
He's started a war between the vampires and wizards and the White Council is not happy about it.
And, there's the small matter of his former girlfriend, Susan, who's been infected with vampire blood.Can he save her from a terrible fate?
Will she be able to pull herself together long enough to help the wizard save the world?Add to these troubles vengeful fairies, a handful of changelings, pizza-loving pixies, werewolves and, of all things, Dungeons and Dragons!
:D Please don't sue.When everyone kept telling me to skip the first three books, I didn't believe there would be such a difference!!
Second half kind of lost me.- HUMOR IS SO GOOD!WHAT I DON'T LIKE- Still not a huge fan of the whole crime genre in general.
kind of boring, but the book DOES try to balance everything out and I managed to remember more than half of the characters...except for their names.
Not bad, but I expected so much more based on how much I enjoyed the first half.A LOT of books are influenced and inspired by the Dresden Files and I am not surprised.
While I’m still not a huge fan of Harry specifically I like most of the side characters enough that it doesn’t matter.
Plus He has a lot of great situations that I loved throughout:✲ - Meeting Ebenezer who is like a father to Harry.
I do love me some time if Faery and every part of meeting the Queens was fascinating.✲ - Clandestine meetings at the Super Walmart late at night where Murphy really got to shine.
Plus he loves him some pizza so I’m sure we would get along.While it is a great compilation of situations I think JB still has some plotting issues.
3.75 stars.According to fans of the series, this is where the Dresden Files supposedly start to get better, and I won't disagree as this was quite an improvement from Grave Peril.The plot in the last book felt quite haphazard.
Moreover, the character development of Harry, as intriguing as his backstory is concerned, annoyed me as he seemed to be able to ever 'dig deeper' into his power reserves from out of nowhere, powered by rage or something else which escaped my comprehension.
As far as characters are concerned, Agent Karrin Murphy has improved in my estimation of her.
Some Fairies, Puck, Oberon, Rob Anybody, Tinkerbell, Rumpelstiltskin, and Jareth gather in the Never Never to play Dungeons and Dragons and discuss Jim Butcher’s 2002 Harry Dresden novel Summer Knight.Puck: Jareth, has anyone ever told you that you look like David Bowie?Jareth: I get that all the time, you have no idea.Puck: So what do you know about the fourth Dresden book, Summer Knight?Rob: We dinna know anythin'!Tinkerbell: tinkle!Rumpelstiltskin: I liked it actually, plenty of action, some explanations of the Fairy lands in Butcher’s Dresden world building, very entertaining.Oberon: Indeed, the knave Butcher is no dunce with the pen.Tinkerbell: tinkle tinkle tinklePuck: Very interesting take on the series, Tink, so are you saying that Butcher’s fourth excursion with Harry Dresden is a jump-the-shark play for better sales among the urban fantasy crowd or was this an ambitious harkening back to magical origins?
Back with Harry.It has been too long since I dedicated my time to our boy Harry, but I am glad to be back with this series after a longish break, and as usual, I did it with audiobook version.I am so bad at doing audio versions because my mind likes to wander all over the place, and I tend to miss bits and pieces every now and then, but I am just too in love with the sexy voice and narration style of James Marsters to actually read these books.
Before I start gnawing on the book, let me first say that I enjoy Butcher's writing overall.
So...yes...he's quite good.But....This is definitely the lesser of the 1st four books.
And when I'm on the 40th or 50th instance of "Dresden only has a one-in-a-thousand chance of survival!" I start to wonder about the man making those odds, and I also start to yawn.
You should write a BOOK about it and make our sweeeeeeet characters FAMOUS!" That became impossible to do at the end of this book, which ends with....(yikes)....Harry Dresden setting down to a table in an apartment, with a group of young werewolves, to eat pizza, drink soda, and....yes...have a role-playing gamer session.
First half: 2 starsSecond half: 4 starsI read many times that series gets lot better from this point on but I didn't see it.
From my angle it's same as previous books with all the good and bad stuff.
Harry tends to be whiny and wallow in self pity, story is predictable and follows similar pattern like all previous books.
On the other hand when it gets good than it's really fun.
There is well written action, mystery(even though it's predictable it's still fun) and interesting world which I always want to know more about.Overall I'm not blown away but I am entertained and I will definitely continue on with the series.
The voice work fits the character brilliantly and I cannot imagine a better person to read this story (I love Buffy a lot, so that probably helped).
I think that this was the best story yet, as Dresden is finally learning from the disasters he lived and is becoming a much better person to spend time with as a reader.
Lately I have been enjoying Urban Fantasy more, as genre I struggled with in the past, and I am so pleased with this - because there are so many books in this series and I love being abl to spend a lot of time with characters I have grown fond of.
This is a revised review as of 4/14/2013.  The strength of this novel is on the world building and character of Harry Dresden with a plot that moves along fast. One thing you can always say about the recent books is that they are fun and fast reads. This presumes you're a fan of Harry (a wise-cracking detective for hire style wizard, who had a tendency to piss off a lot of people) and the writing style. In fact if you don't like Harry then you shouldn't be reading these books.In book four, he's
The strength of this novel is on the world building and character of Harry Dresden with a plot that moves along fast.
This presumes you're a fan of Harry (a wise-cracking detective for hire style wizard, who had a tendency to piss off a lot of people) and the writing style.
CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B minus to B; STORY/PLOTTING/EDITING: B plus; WRITING STYLE: B to B plus; WORLD BUILDING: B plus to A minus; WHEN READ: 2008 (second reading) (revised review 4/14/2013); OVERALL GRADE: B plus.
(view spoiler)[Nice fight with the ogre early on during his investigation and Harry's realization he was dealing with something supernatural.
[4.5 Stars]
Harry Dresden, the wizard/private investigator, is depressed: major girlfriend troubles, problems making rent, various and sundry supernatural beings trying to kill him, outstanding obligations to the Fae that are equally likely to result in his death, and issues with the governing council of wizards, who want to turn Harry over to the vampire council who -- you got it -- also want Harry dead.Several people told me to just start with this book, #4 in the Dresden urban fantasy series, if I wanted to check out this series.
The problem is that I wasn't really invested in the characters, so I got just a little bored.
I really enjoy listening to this series and this book has been my favorite so far. Of course it does, James, don't be silly.Aside from James Marsters ear-gasms, I'm really starting to get into the overarching storyline that seems to be developing.On to the next one!
It has been two years since I read a “Dresden Files” book, Grave Peril, I enjoyed it a lot but not much of it lingered and while I intended to get back to the series, I felt there is no rush to do so.
The Dresden Files by by charro-art (click to embiggen).I went into Summer Knight expecting pure entertainment and I got my money’s worth.
They may not be developed in depth but they are a lot of fun.Summer Knight is a highly enjoyable book and I will definitely get back into the series again, probably with less of a time gap next time..Banner by Samurphy0320Quotes:“It came as a shock to me.
His only way out is to prove his allegiance to the White Council by opening up routes into Faerie so they can get away from the vampires.
By asking Harry, that means he doesn't get to say no, since his faerie godmother sold his debt to her to Queen Mab. Complicated?
He might seem like a ne'er do well, but he's resourceful, strong-willed, and at heart, definitely a white knight.Summer Knight wasn't an easy read for me.
And I loved the Faerie smackdown at the end of this story.
And if you've ever read a Dresden novel, you know that Harry is always, always getting hurt.
This one picked up where the last one left off very nicely with the introduction of some cool characters and an introduction to the White Council, the political leaders of the wizards, and all the scheming and backbiting that comes with them, which Harry finds himself caught in the middle of.
(view spoiler)[ It seemed almost to be unexpected to Butcher as well as her explanation for her betrayal of Harry, that she was being mind-controlled by an evil wizard, seemed somewhat hollow.
This forced Harry to try and navigating these confusing and magical worlds carefully as he searched for the murderer.
Yet again on a reread, a Harry Dresden book goes from 4 to 5 stars.This book was all action and very funny.
Dresden is in trouble with the council after the trouble with the vampire courts of the previous book.
This book however is all about faerie.
There were scarlet-and blue-skinned ogres in faerie mail,brown skinned gnomes, sylphs crouched over a mound of bloody, stinking carrion, squabbling like vultures, troop of battered, lantern-jawed, burly humanoids with wide, batlike ears, goblins, clouds of pixies, bumble bees as big as park benches, spiders as big as footballs, faerie hounds to name but a few.
Really starting to enjoy this series. Props to Harry for finally starting to trust Murphy and stop making his life needlessly difficult with misapplied chivalry.
It was weird revisiting the first three books, which I originally didn't like enough to continue the series, on audio for the first time.
I knew that James Marsters was a huge part of the reason I ended up liking this series so much, but I don't think I realized just how much until starting this re-read.
Which is all just a lead up to me explaining that I'm reading the rest of this series on this re-read in hard copy, because I have OCD and each book has to be read each way at least one time.
I hadnt really like the previous 3 all that much but I was heavily convinced by a friend that I should. I'm glad I did. Great fun, the larger world is explored a little more, characters are fleshed out more. It seemed more together and it feels like Butcher is building towards something. Definitely going to continue with this series.
I'm actually shocked he doesn't eat Cup of Noodles.Here's the thing: Harry Dresden is a well-realized character, he's just a person whose head I don't want to be inside.
He's also stubborn the way many real world nerds are, to the point of self-destruction where you want to choke them.
4 Stars!
This is urban fantasy, not romance, but I want to jump in the book, lay Harry flat out on his back, and have my way with him!
What a yummy wizard!
Another stand out installment in this series.
Harry can't keep his eyes in his head when the female werewolves get naked...naughty wizard!
James Marsters as narrator, makes this book come alive, one of the best audio voices out there.
His voice is a combination of rough, sultry, snarky, amusing, everything that embodies Harry Dresden's character.
James Marsters you are music to my ears!
His rendition of other characters and creatures has just improved out of sight as well.The pace of this book took a bit of a hit compared to his previous books, with a large chunk of the middle taken up with a lot of dialogue and world building.
And I mean more than what we've learned about the vampire courts and white council in the previous three books combined.
So far, in the previous few books, we got the world building on the fly without sacrificing pace or plot elements.
Another Harry Dresden audiobook, another winner! I ADORE this series!The audiobook for this series is simply sensational! Sure, James Marsters doesn't have a wide range of voices and sure, he wetly clears his throat a lot, but you know what? I don't care! He IS Harry Dresden and DAMN does he make these books come alive. An excellent listen and another fabulous visit to my favorite wizard of them all!
I loved this book to, but then I loved all the Dresden books.
You can't help but feel for Harry, the poor schmuck usually manages to get the proverbial "snot" beat (yes I know it should be "beaten out" but we're going colloquial here) out of him, before the end of the book.
Sometimes the amount of punishment he takes is (as Bertie Wooster might say) quite astounding.The Harry Dresden books are what first interested me in the actual genre of Urban Fantasy.These are great books...really.
Have you seen a child eat too much sweet and it's energy level go up, and then it starts jumping, running, bouncing? This book is kind of like that. I don't know any other way to describe it. :P It's only 4th book of the series. I have to read 11 more books which are already published and more books are on the way to publish (hopefully). It is in this condition now, I am just wondering what will happen as the series goes by!P.S. No point in saving a start for later.
Another great Dresden book but not as good as the rest. The whole fairie part really overwhelms everything. It is pretty much way over Harry's head and his powers are useless. Of course he finds a way, but watching him be helpless wasn't very fun. Still better than most books!
