https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/993792.Poetic_Diction
This was definitely new territory for me. I came away from reading it with a greater appreciation for the role of the poet in expanding language and meaning. I'll leave it to other reviewers who may be better versed in literature and philosophy to comment on the technical details of the book. One thing I found interesting was that while extolling the virtue of the poetic, Barfield did not denigrate the need for the prosaic.
A few days ago I finished reading Owen Barfield’s POETIC DICTION (1928).
Agreeing with Emerson’s “Nature,” Barfield argues that all language is in essence metaphorical, even scientific prose.
He locates the poetic in the metaphorical use of language to create new perceptions of reality.
He also praises the use of archaic language and strange diction to do so.
But in my own prose I have tried to create by fresh metaphors and descriptions an effect similar to what Barfield praises.
I haven’t yet had time to react to some of his speculations.
At any rate the book is brief, intriguing, but at times a bit obtuse.
A difficult book, written for those of a classical education that as a practical matter doesn't exist anymore.
It made me wish I had the means (or, more honestly, the patience) to learn and appreciate languages that function differently than my own.
Otherwise I found the book engaging and thought-provoking in a way that transcended the seemingly straightforward subject matter.
"A Study in Meaning" is a very apt subtitle.
Owen Barfield will make you think the mystery of life can be perceived through the study and appreciation of language.
I know that there is more in this book than I got out of it. Barfield assumes a lot from his readers, not only fluency in poetry and philosophy, but also French, Latin, and Greek. What I mostly derived from it was how poorly educated I really am. Some great insights made it in past my ignorance, however. Thus the four stars.
Stimulating and suggestive.
Owen Barfield has truly written a philosophical and literary masterpiece.
"Poetic Diction" begins with a phenomenological analysis of poetry, and why it affects us the way it does.
Barfield critiques the works of Locke, Kant and Hume, and provides a basis for understanding meaning as a description of our relationship with reality.
Poetry becomes a description of this experience, about how our participation with reality changes our consciousness.
Well researched and beautifully written.
The Second Preface and the Appendices were extremely helpful, and contained some of the mean of the argument.
Highly recommended for anyone interested in: poetry criticism, literary criticism, epistemology, metaphysics, or the history of philosophy.
This was a fascinating little book that made me think a lot about different topics that I hadn't thought about all that much before.
I didn't read all of this book as thoroughly as I could, so some day I'd like to come back to this when I have more experience in this field and more time on my hands.
Overall, this was a thought-provoking book with a lot of intriguing theories.Rating: 3.5 Stars (Good).
Really fine.
On Poetic Diction by Owen Barfield "Wow, that man is intoxicated with the exuberance of his own verbosity," Dad retorted upon hearing a quote from Owen Barfield's "Poetic Diction". I had just completed it on the plane ride over to visit with them and I was quite pleased with myself. Afterall, this was a dense read - Barfield would often slip into Latin, French, and at times German as if it were nothing. One reviewer stated (paraphrased) "the problem with this book starts long before you pick it
I was classically educated and I /still/ had to read some paragraphs multiple times to glean from their meaning.
While a capital intellect, Barfield does not write as a professor, but as a lover: a man who loves beautiful things and is unafraid of the thinking it will take to gain them.
It is a risky (many would say faulty) way to begin a treatise, but, at every turn, Barfield proves entirely up to the task and I am well convinced that he has accomplished his goal of communicating truths clearly, deeply, and, indeed, through means of his own experiences.
For the love of words, I will write.
I knew since reading Tolkien that philology, poetry, and mythology were interests of his, and since learning about the Inklings that philology, poetry, and mythology were shared interests of that group, but always just thought of this as a particular interest of this group of folks.
After reading this book I understand how these three fields are closely intertwined, conceptually, and also gave some thought to the tendency of the empirical data available to those interested in the deep history of language to be dominated by mythological poems, which might result in such a bond even if there were not a conceptual link between philology and each of the other two.
Sing it with me:You take the good, you take the bad,You take 'em both and there you have,The Facts of Life.[...]When the world never seemsTo be living up to your dreamsAnd suddenly you're finding outThe Facts of Life are all about you.I feel this song sums up Poetic Diction pretty well, but perhaps this statement requires some explanation...Barfield's big idea is that if "language is fossil poetry," then working our way back into linguistic time, language should get intrinsically more and more poetic until finally we hit the bedrock of language where all human linguistic experience is ultimate poetry.
There is absolutely more to this book than I have gotten from it on this read, so someday I'm gonna have to read it again.
My 90-year-old landlord lent me this book earlier this month, and tonight we kicked a belligerent and drunk homeless man off the porch who had decided to set up camp with his sleeping bag directly across my door.
I give this book four stars because I admire the way my landlord snatched the sleeping bag from the guy's hands, slowly plodded it to the curb, and threw it decisively into a puddle.
We experienced this together, and for that, I give this book four stars and I will someday read it again.
"Really, there is no distinction between Poetry and Science, as kinds of knowing, at all. There is only a distinction between bad poetry and bad science."
And I wonder if the fact that I seemed to have discovered, or rather to be discovering, these thing for myself, mainly by pondering the felt difference to which I have referred, may not have imparted a certain energy that accounts for its having apparently outlasted some other books by men who knew a great deal more both of literature and of the history of ideas" (Afterword, 221).Nemerov's Foreward:2: should poets be contemplative?3: should poets be philosophical?4: shift in understanding "imagination"4-5: Jonson and Ingenium, Exercitatio, Imitatio, and Lectio5: separation of prose and poetry (17c and 18c)6: turning point at French Revolution; Wordsworth opposed poetic diction6-7: revolt and rebellion7-9: Wordsworth and BlakeBarfield's Preface to the Second Edition:15/17: only veridical scientific statements have meaning (what about that statement itself?—see p.
Poetry, for Barfield, is a quality of language: poetic diction, as opposed to prosaic diction, either of which may appear in verse or prose form.
Poetic language, poetry, he suggests, is language that creates new meaning for (at least some of) the words it uses.
Indeed, Barfield eschews discussion of things like rhyme, alliteration, and so on, except passim in service of other birds he is hunting.A great deal of the book is given over to a proposed revision of the commonly-held theories (as of 1928) of how language arises, and of how words "create" meaning in the mind of the reader/writer/speaker/hearer.
For example, Barfield's ideas about metaphor seem to me very similar to Dreyfus' account of Heidegger's own work:"On the contrary, Heidegger wants us to see that at an early stage of language the distinction metaphorical/literal has not yet emerged".
I find no mention of Heidegger or Ricoeur in the index and bibliography of Verlyn Flieger's book Splintered Light, on Tolkien and Barfield, which maybe isn't surprising considering how phenomenology was taken on so much by french thinkers (Tolkien was anything but a francophile) and it's association with Sartre's existentialism (who misinterpreted Heidegger, according to Dreyfus), but I think a mutual cross examination of both sides, eg, Barfield and Ricoeur, would be quite fruitful-- but maybe that's just me trying to consolidate my diverse interests.
But very rarely have I ever felt like reading a book again as soon as I put it down.
I found this book by researching J.R.R. Tolkien, who was influenced by Owen Barfield's ideas, especially this book.
Then I kept seeing Barfield's name and I found out that lots of people were deeply influenced by his thinking (and not just his close friend and the person to whom this book is dedicated, C.S. Lewis).
Barfield was a member of the "Inklings," whatever that means, and this book is right up there with Tolkien and Lewis in its own way.
This is my second time to read this.
I enjoyed it a lot more my second time through.
I'm reading it because I have reread The Lord of the Rings 14 times, The Hobbit 8 times, The silmarillion 6 to 8 times, and all of the volumes of The History of Middle-earth, and other things by Tolkien between 1 and 3 times.
I have read literary criticisms of Tolkien's work.
So, I'm reading the other Inklings.
His work is hard, but he shared the interests and values of the other Inklings and that gives me a little something.
According to Barfield, language has preserved the inner history of human beings and reveals the evolution of consciousness.
Embedded in our subconscious is the memory of when language was more of an archetype symbolic expression, which is why poetry excites the aesthetic imagination and has the potential of producing a felt change in consciousness.
Barfield also attempts to heal the subject / object split that has occurred through the evolution of consciousness by providing a participatory epistemology that includes an extra sensory relationship between the person and the phenomenon.
He stands on the shoulders of Kant, Goethe, and Rudolph Steiner.
I think this book kind of fucked me up in the head.
In trying to trace back to when I stopped believing and acting as if words mean the same thing to everybody, I think I find the headwaters of that belief in Barfield's writings and this book in particular.
Or maybe I'm just a Gen-Xer with a heightened awareness of the role of stories and filters and worldviews.In any event, Barfield lays out an sequence of interesting examples of how words have danced with meaning, and how that dance has changed leading up to modern times.This book is heady stuff, but I thought it was an interesting read.
I really loved this book. Fair warning, Barfield's writing can be dense in places (particularly the Appendices) but the central thesis is enormously compelling and I look forward to finding further exploration of it. Hopefully in other authors as well as other examples of Barfield's work. I should also not that I came to "Poetic Diction" out of my general interest in the Inklings and a desire to get a solid "feel" for how Barfield's though fit's within their conversation. The book is helpful in that context as well.
This was an interesting, though highly dry book. It loses you occasionally, because Barfield is carrying on philological debates with men nobody's heard of today, but in his time were apparently influential. He argues that all language is inherently poetic, and that poetry and metaphor are the centers of language. The more "poetic" is our education, the more we are changed and transformed for the better.
This is one of the books that I read every year, because it contains so much and each time I read it I learned something you and understand a bit more. If you want to understand the nature of language, and particular, "poetic diction", this is the classic that influenced both CS Lewis and J. R. R. Tolkien.
Why is it that poetic language somehow feels truer and more meaningful than literal descriptions? Using etymology, Barfield argues that language holds within it a "history of consciousness" and that poetic language moves us by affecting in us a "felt change of consciousness", allowing us to participate more fully in the Meaning with which the world is dripping.A brilliant book.
*2.5 stars*There is much that Barfield assumes his audience knows, and therefore does not explain. I needed a copy annotated by a philologist of the time. Without notes, he talks just over my head and I can tell it's probably brilliant, but I can't quite make out why.
It will probably take the rest of my life to understand this book, not because Barfield doesn't write clearly or logically but because his intellect is so giant. Extremely thought-provoking book about language and how we make meaning.
Difficult but interesting.
Brilliant, though I found it wound through realms of language theory that I was unfamiliar with. The central concept rings true. Language IS fossilized metaphor.
ok
Thouroughly enjoyed, though it is not an easy read. I know some reading I want to do, and I may find time to read again with that additional context.
