https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186364.Cup_of_Gold
John Steinbeck wrote a romance novel???
So they tried to pass this book off as a romance.
From the front cover: " He Sacked Panama For A Woman's Kisses".
From the back cover: "She was the lovely mystery woman of Panama.
Every foulmouthed buccaneer on the Spanish Main dreamed of possessing her.
It was desire to take this woman that brought Henry Morgan, King of the Pirates, to Panama.
With torch and cutlass he laid waste to the mightiest citadel in Spanish America.
but I found no romance in this book.
It is Steinbeck's well written historical fiction account of Henry Morgan.
Apart from having the opportunity to observe a development in literary skills, it feels like a properly organised thing to do.
If this, Steinbeck's first novel, had been my introduction to his work, there's at least a chance I would have gone no further.
Steinbeck was passionate about Arthurian legend and its varous literary incarnations and it's interesting to observe this obsession manifesting itself in his early work.
Although quite different from Steinbeck's later, better, work, it shows hints of what would come to characterise his fiction: a strong sense of the natural environment and compassion for human frailty.
Like most of Steinbeck's novels, this work has a moral.
كأس من ذهب أول رواية كتبها شتاينبك، وهي روايته التاريخية الوحيدة، كما أن أسلوب الرواية مختلف عن أسلوب شتاينبك الذي طوره في الروايات التالية، تتناول الرواية قصة القرصان البريطاني هنري مورجان والذي جاء من بيئة فقيرة واستطاع بناء إمبراطورية خاصة به من السطو والاحتلال للمستوطنات الإسبانية، إنها قصة البحث الدائم عن شيء ما، الشهرة والثروة والمرأة، ولكن في كل مرة يصل الإنسان إلى ما يريده يكتشف أنه ليس كما تخيله، وأنه متروك لجوعه القديم.
First, the woman who wrote the introduction should be hanged for treason.
"Thoroughly masculine and should find much favor with those male readers who delight in bloody tales of piracy and rebellion." Male readers?
Hello!
I quite enjoy a little bit of bloodthirsty swashbuckling and I ain't male.And I obviously really enjoyed this story :) It was really very fun and I loved seeing Morgan's character evolve all the way from pitiful on up.
He was a fascinating character.
And yes, we get bloodthirsty swashbuckling pirate-y fun, and quite a magnificent raid on Panama.
Oh hell, it was fun!
Well, yeah, the first thing that comes to my mind when thinking of Sir Henry Morgan is the whiskey, but there's certainly more to his story.
Cup of Gold traces his life from early childhood to his eventual death, retelling all kinds of adventures and romantic encounters that happened in between.
It's a lush first novel that didn't attract much attention upon its original publication and only received mixed reviews back in the day, but it's particularly interesting to read now, knowing what an outstanding writer Steinbeck would eventually become.
The Henry Morgan we meet here was made for big things, with an impulsive and adventurous character.
As a first book, it doesn't deserve to carry the literary stigma of The Grapes of Wrath or Of Mice and Men. And it is a stigma, because any reader who has read those books will go looking for at least the seed of what was to become some of the greatest writing of the 20th century, and if it's a readers first Steinbeck, they're going to be expecting to see what is so great about his work.
There's an odd sort of realism to the book, Steinbeck's pirates do have pillage and torture, rape is alluded to, they make use of the services of prostitutes, but there's no mention of them killing anyone when they do these things.
Having left port with the completion of Cup of Gold, my friend, Mikki, and I have embarked on a reading voyage that paddles through all books Steinbeck chronologically plus a few stow-away biographies.Cup of Gold launched Steinbeck's literary career and has the distinction of being his only historical novel.
From a Steinbeck fan POV, this book fascinated me.
Personally, I'm glad he abandoned the historical novel ship and flew his own colors writing novels that encompass what he learned in his own life and about his family history.
In Cup of Gold, Steinbeck takes that life and turns it into a tale that captivates..The story of young Henry feeling the call of the sea; the joining of himself to other pirates; the search for the most sought after woman in the world; and finally the conquering of Panama!
Old Henry does not feel the same about the world, but more importantly, he does not feel the same about himself.
I highly recommend this book!
I almost wish that I didn't know that Steinbeck had to balance biography and historical fiction to concoct this beautiful tale!
But you can still see something of what is to follow in this little novel.------------------------------------“He has come to be the great man he thought he wanted to be.
If this is true, then he is not a man.
He is still a little boy and wants the moon.” “Why do men like me want sons?" he wondered.
"It must be because they hope in their poor beaten souls that these new men, who are their blood, will do the things they were not strong enough nor wise enough nor brave enough to do.
Cup of Gold had all the elements that promised an enjoyable read for me: Steinbeck, pirates, historical fiction.And, yet, I was so bored.Apparently, this is Steinbeck's first novel. Knowing this, I can forgive the book some of the tediousness and lack of message, but still, knowing what Steinbeck is capable of creating in his later books makes it difficult to like this book any better.
This book was not for me. It has neither swashbuckling, nor romance and lets not get started on the way it talks about colonialism and people of color. Would recommend only to Steinbeck die-hards.
A vele ammainateDi pirati e terre da conquistare: John Steinbeck (questo il suo primo romanzo) racconta la vita romanzata di Henry Morgan, pirata inglese del XVII secolo, che dal Galles partì fanciullo per il continente, solcò i mari alla conquista di Panama e infine fu nominato baronetto del Regno Unito e governatore della Giamaica.Alcune descrizioni, mirabili, lasciano presagire lo Steinbeck che verrà e che amo, ma resta in ogni caso uno dei miei romanzi "spreferiti" fra quelli di uno degli autori che più amo.
I can read novels worth of Steinbeck writing descriptions of everything from landscape to feelings. He had a wonderful way with words. The plot certainly gives away the fact that this was his first published work, but it has its charm. I enjoyed that it pushed an envelope for sensuality and featured a strong heroine like Ysobel, who could fence and laugh in the face of danger. I genuinely liked This debut.
Ten years of fighting and plundering and burning, and he was thirty. His graying hair seemed to coil more closely to his head. Henry Morgan was successful, the most luck-followed free-booter the world had known, and the men of his profession gave him that admiration he had craved. His enemies - and any man of Spain who had money was his enemy - shuddered at the mention of his name.
I loved this book, but I don't think it's a good place to start if you want to read Steinbeck.
I have tons of experience reading Steinbeck, as this is the 7th John Steinbeck book I've read.
If you're a pirate adventure fan, or a fantasy fan who is not much interested in Steinbeck's other works, then go right ahead and read this first, but if you plan to read more Steinbeck, then don't read this first as it is such a large change from his other books.
In short, this is a great pirate adventure novel and you can see that this novel is a Steinbeck at certain points.
While this isn’t Steinbeck’s best novel—it was his first—you can see that he clearly has a beautiful way of describing things and a way with words that isn’t normal. This is his only historic-fiction novel, which keeps him within bounds of the story he committed to tell—and leaves little room for his normal brilliance. Still, I’m glad I read it and could see glimpses of what’s to come.
I am a huge Steinbeck fan and have been for ages but this one disappointed me terribly. I didn't hate it but I felt that this-Steinbeck's very first novel-wasn't great in any aspect! Fortunately, after this first highly forgettable novel, Steinbeck improved his writing and became a superstar of literary classics that we came to know and love.
It's clearly his first novel. At times it reads like a pulp or romance novel. Some lines of dialogue are cringeworthy. We do catch glimpses of the writer he would turn into, but "Cup of Gold" is far, far from his best. Were it not such an enjoyable tale in and of itself, I would not recommend it.
Wondrous first novel by Steinbeck. Great introduction to the 1936 copy...
Steinbeck's first novel written in 1929; perhaps my father read it as a young man also enchanted by pirates. Steinbeck seems to searching for his voice in this first novel - sometimes I am lost in a mythical narrative and then later I recognized his swift engaging and searching questions of life.
Instead Steinbeck has chosen to depict the familiar themes of youth and belonging through the experiences of a young Henry Morgan coming to terms with his ambitions and desires.
After capturing his first ship he easily starts to win the respect of hundreds of buccaneers, and soon commands a fleet of loyal vessels.
Soon only one challenge is left to him - the Cup of Gold.
But what is a man to do when the prize that he has won is, through the winning, changed into something far less desirable?In a way, you could view this story as a post-modern anti-consumer fable, but of course that is not what Steinbeck intended.
It left me a little unsatisfied, with the last 50 pages leaping through stages of Henry Morgan's life without the pieces all connecting well and making sense.
His experiences with the key characters in the story, particularly the women, felt a little shallow.
He was a scared man, despite all his conquests, and, to paraphrase someone towards the end of the story, he's a foolish man, because he was able to do great things, he must've been foolish.
Some of Steinbeck's characters throughout his novels are foolish, but they are more of other qualities than foolish.
Henry Morgan was mostly foolish, and a little clever, with his foolishness being the thing most explored.Still, the writing is exquisite.
I enjoyed this story. Originally, I thought this was the story of Henry Morgan becoming a pirate and growing from a boy to a man. Later, as is pointed out by the sage, we realize it is the story of a boy trying to fight growing up. He is driven by fear. First of the ordinary and then of love. The writing is amazing of course and so descriptive. It is easy to see how this could be mistaken for more of a non fiction book. Good start to the year of Steinbeck.
This novel was a good story of a country boy becoming the greatest and most feared buccaneer in the world. However, the story moved very fast for me, and I was a little disappointed that (view spoiler)[Henry never returned to see his father (hide spoiler)]
I was hesitant going in because the subject matter isn't something I care all that much about to begin with.
As the story begins in Morgan's teenage years we know where he is going.
We are told that his takeover of Panama is coming, but we already know the outcome before the battle even begins.
I don't think Steinbeck was able to create his memorable, layered characters that I know and love with this one.
If you haven't read anything by Steinbeck before, I don't encourage you to start with this one.
But, knowing where he started does make me excited to read what's to come.
Let me offer you some shots of his “150 proof” talent:“Why do men like me want sons?" he wondered.
You want the moon to drink from as a golden cup; and so, it is very likely that you will become a great man -- if only you remain a little child.
All the world's great have been little boys who wanted the moon; running and climbing, they sometimes catch a firefly.
And I am sorry for his coming greatness...”If you are a fan of Steinbeck, the classics, or just reading one with the strength and talent to be the captain of a ship that defines a story as it sails a sea of words, come onboard.
3.75
What I love about this book is you would never know it was written in 1929. It has a very modern written feel to it. And, really, it's Steinbeck...how could you not like it?
Not Steinbeck's best work, by any stretch, but it was interesting to compare to his later works and see how he grew as a writer.
سيمفونية التعببقلم :أحمد التهامي(قراءة في رواية كأس من ذهب)لجون شتاينباككنت فيما سبقت قد كتبت نقدا لبداية رواية كأس من ذهب شتاينباك اقارن فيه بين الخمسة وسبعين صفحة الاولى منها وعدة روايات اخر لشتاينباك واليوم اواصل الكلام حول بقية الرواية منتقدا ومستمتعا في ان!.وقد كان المثل السئ في تلك المقاربة هو هذه الخمسة وسبعين صفحة التي سوف اقترح عليكم كيفية التعامل معها لاحقا.1. ان العلاقة بين هذه الخمسة وسبعين صفحة الاولى وبقية الرواية ليست وثيقة ؛ فهذه الصفحات الطوال مجرد سرحان طويل في تاريخ الفتى الذي
العلاقات الغرامية للبطل هنري هي ملح هذه الرواية ولو انها اختفت لنقصت قيمتها عندي!فالتنقل من الجارية الزنجية ذات الاصول الفرنسية شديدة الاحتمال الراغبة في الزواج من هنري بطل الرواية والتي اجتهدت في نسج خطتها للزواج وفشلت في اخر لحظة الى السانتا رويا التي تبين انها ليست كما تتحدث عنها الروايات امراءة ليست خارقة الجمال لكنها مقاتلة كسرت عنفوان البطل وخربت اقباله على الدنيا ودفعته لقتل اعز اصدقائه!الى ابنة عمه الخجول العازفة على البيانو التي تزوجته هربا من الفقر الشديد!كل هذه الانغام صنعت شيئا له مذاق خاص في هذه البقية رواية عوضت الاختفاء القسري والقهري للبطلات المجسدات في الخمسة وسبعين صفحة الاولى!
