https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1013383.The_Gruffalo
My boy brought this to me a couple days ago, asking if I'd read it to him.I did, and it's quickly become a new favorite.It's not terribly complex, or long, or ethically enriching.
But then again, not all books need to be.
What this book does have is a marvelously tight and deceptively effortless rhyme and meter.
I say "deceptively" here because I know that sort of thing doesn't come easily.
Despite the fact that the book is wonderful fun to read, I know the author sweat blood making the language work out right.Good book.
Fun to read out loud.
Brains beat brawns every time. The Gruffalo teaches children to be patient and understanding. Whilst not necessarily advocating the cunning manipulation that the mouse utilises, it does suggest that there is more to people than their outward appearance. Just because someone may appear “scary” doesn’t mean they’re a bad person, and innocent seeming things can be the worse. Judge only on actions not how one appears.
This is the original picture book which started it all, and which has itself won many awards, been translated into over fifty languages, and has been voted the UK’s favourite bedtime story.It begins with a simple idea, of a little brown mouse taking a walk in a “deep dark wood”.
But our perky, brave little mouse is very quick-thinking:“It’s terribly kind of you, Fox, but no –I’m going to have lunch with a gruffalo!”And as he describes the tusks, teeth and jaws of the terrible monster to the fox, he finishes with:“and his favourite food is roasted fox”whereupon the fox’s eyes get very wide indeed, and he scoots off in a panic.
Foxes are supposed to be cunning, but it is the mouse who is cunning and manipulative.
He or She manipulated all the predators fears against them to stay safe.
That's pretty smart.
I guess that's how you survive.
I love that even the Gruffalo had fears.
I guess being a mouse, the mouse has had to learn to live with fear.
Find that fear and use it against you.
Does the mouse offer a seminar?
I need to learn a thing or two from it.The kids enjoyed this.
The nephew loved the gruffalo and the niece did too for different reasons.

Another delightful rhyming story from the pen of Julia Donaldson with brilliant accompanying illustrations by Axel Scheffler.Donaldson and Scheffler are a formidable team (although not quite rivalling that of Dahl and Blake) and this is undoubtedly one of their classics. The Gruffalo is a great character and creation loved by adults and children alike. Although well adapted for television and stage versions - nothing can compare to the original story and illustrations.
The Gruffalo, by Julia Donaldson is a cute rhyming story about a mouse and a gruffalo. We loved the combination of the sly little mouse and gullible gruffalo.   "My favorite food!" the gruffalo said."You'll taste good on a slice of bread!""Good?" said the mouse. "Don't call me good!I'm the scariest creature in this deep dark wood.Just walk behind me and soon you'll see,everyone is afraid of me." The illustrations are detailed and interesting. Overall, its a charming little story children will en
The Gruffalo, by Julia Donaldson is a cute rhyming story about a mouse and a gruffalo. We loved the combination of the sly little mouse and gullible gruffalo. 
   "My favorite food!" the gruffalo said."You'll taste good on a slice of bread!""Good?" said the mouse. "Don't call me good!I'm the scariest creature in this deep dark wood.Just walk behind me and soon you'll see,everyone is afraid of me."
The illustrations are detailed and interesting. Overall, its a charming little story children will enjoy.4****

Delightful!I've heard of this book, and my kids have seen the cartoon on Netflix, yet we hadn't read the book until recently, when my sister gave it to my youngest. We love Donaldson's Room on the Broom, and this is more of the same. Tight, elegant rhymes, a fun story, and great pictures. Now we need The Gruffalo's Child!
Have just bought this and all the toys to go with it for my little nephew. Hope he's going to like it as much as I did!
Description: This is a rhyming story of a mouse and a monster. Little mouse goes for a walk in a dangerous forest. To scare off his enemies he invents tales of a fantastical creature called the Gruffalo. So imagine his surprise when he meets the real Gruffalo.4* The Stick Man5* The Gruffalo
This is a totally awesome book. My children read it at school and they really loved it. And of course we bought the book and we saw the movie.And then we read the book again again and again :-)It is a clever story about a little mouse and a scary (not really) monster, the Gruffalo. The intelligent sourceful little mouse manipulated the bigger animals who wanted to eat him. He made them think that he is scarier than Gruffalo. Thus, he should not be eaten.The little mouse though that Gruffalo is a made up monster, but he was wrong. Surprise!
This is a wonderful book for kids! I loved the illustrations, and the story is so smart. Would make a great gift or a nice first book to someone who's just learning how to read.
اولین بار انیمیشنش را دیدم. انیمیشن کوتاهی بود. داستان به نظرم حیرت انگیز بود. داستان را شب برای پسرم از حفظ گفتم. قدم به قدم. همانطوری که توی انیمیشن دیده بودم. پلک نمی زد. وقتی موش قصه به گروفالوی خیالی رسید داشت سکته می کرد:)وقتی دیدم کانون ترجمهاش کرده خریدمش. پریشبها برایش خواندم و جالب اینکه هنوز برایش هیجان انگیز بود. تجربهی خنده و تعجب و کمی ترس را همزمان به بچهها دادن کار سختی است. از موج کتابها و اسباب بازیها و کارتها و چیزهای دیگری که توی وب در موردش هست معلومه که محبوب بچههاست.
اولین بار انیمیشنش را دیدم. انیمیشن کوتاهی بود. داستان به نظرم حیرت انگیز بود. داستان را شب برای پسرم از حفظ گفتم. قدم به قدم. همانطوری که توی انیمیشن دیده بودم. پلک نمی زد. وقتی موش قصه به گروفالوی خیالی رسید داشت سکته می کرد:)وقتی دیدم کانون ترجمه‌اش کرده خریدمش. پریشب‌ها برایش خواندم و جالب این‌که هنوز برایش هیجان انگیز بود. تجربه‌ی خنده و تعجب و کمی ترس را همزمان به بچه‌ها دادن کار سختی است. از موج کتاب‌ها و اسباب بازی‌ها و کارت‌ها و چیزهای دیگری که توی وب در موردش هست معلومه که محبوب بچه‌هاست.
Ha ha ha. It was really great. this is my new favorite children’s book. :D
Despite the lead character a rather scary looking monster, this is a fun bedtime read geared at younger children. The story is told through rhyme, as we meet various animals who cross paths with the giant Gruffalo. With beautifully unique illustrations, this is a perfect gift for young readers.
قصة طريفة عن فأر ذكي. استطاع أن يتغلب على كل الحيونات التي حاولت افتراسه بحيله الذكية. أجمل ما في القصة أنها تشجع الأطفال على حل المشاكل بطرق مبتكرة بدلا من الهروب منها.
has become a 'standard' (one of those books every kid should have...) and I was surprised to find how much I liked it!The rhythm and rhyme is perfect - it's heavily structured, but flows naturally, so even the most stilted beadtime-story reader is guided smoothly into a sing-song cadence.
The Gruffalo's Child, Room on the Broom, The Smartest Giant in Town, A Squash and a Squeeze, Charlie Cook's Favourite Book, and Superworm all have my little boy's seal of approval.
After this I read: The Gruffalo's Child
The first time I read the story, I initially felt it was a very long read for children as I thought it was long myself and repetitive but upon reading it a second, third time, I realised I had not fully appreciated how good the storybook was.
The use of animals was a good idea as children were able to point out different animals that they came accross throughout the book, creating a sense of excitement.
Use of synonyms such as 'Big and little' help children to begin to understand opposites of words, a good literacy aspect of children's learning.
I hadn't read this book since my childhood, loved it!Great opportunities to look at rhyme and rhythm with children.
The repetitive line of 'there's no such thing as Gruffalo' would be lovely for EAL children to join in too.
You could also explore Donaldson's use of alliteration with children.
Children could create more animals for the mouse to meet and their own rhymes for them.
In science, children could look at the different habitats in which the animals live in.
Good morals about not having to be the biggest to be the best.
That you shouldn't judge from what you see, as the Gruffalo wasn't scary.
hikaye çok eğlenceli. julia donaldson (zogi'de olduğu gibi)korku öğeleri olarak kullanılan figürlerin aslında ne kadar sevimli olabileceğini çocuklara göstermeye çalışmış. elimdeki baskısı ingilizce olmasına rağmen ne zaman hadi kitap okuyalım desem oğlum raftan bunu ve devamı olan Gruffalo's child'ı seçip getiriyor. türkçesini bulabilecekler için adı "tostoraman" baskısı tükendiği için ben bulamadım. arayana iyi şanslar*edit: yayazula adıyla türkçe yeni baskısı yapıldı. artık rahatlıkla ulaşılabilir.
شاید بیربط باشه، اما این کتاب من رو یاد یک ترس بزرگم انداخت. اکثر اوقات فانتزی میسازم. به زبان دیگه، توهم میزنم و هی با خودم فکر میکنم. بعد هی میگم، نه واقعی نیست. واقعی نیست. فکرای توست. و ترس اینکه واقعا به واقعیت بپیوندن،...
شاید بی‌ربط باشه، اما این کتاب من رو یاد یک ترس بزرگم انداخت. اکثر اوقات فانتزی می‌سازم. به زبان دیگه، توهم می‌زنم و هی با خودم فکر می‌کنم. بعد هی می‌‌گم، نه واقعی نیست. واقعی نیست. فکرای توست. و ترس اینکه واقعا به واقعیت بپیوندن،...
A wonderful tale and movie about dealing with bullies. A must for kids!
Hands down the best childrens book - I loved reading it to my son as well as the other books by her. He's getting older now so I cant read it as much :(
Read 18/01/17
A tiny mouse uses his wits to avoid becoming someone's lunch and in doing so, becomes king of the deep, dark forest. ADORABLE!
The Gruffalo, by Julia Donaldson The Gruffalo is about a cheeky and confident little mouse who defends himself from an array of predators, whilst walking through ‘a deep dark wood’.
The use of ‘deep dark wood’ to describe the forest works very well, as it sets the scene and makes the reader excited about what there is to come.
Every part of the story is great, but the witty and clever character of the mouse is definitely the main highlight.
The repetition and rhyming theme of the book would make it very enjoyable for children and would help them understand what could happen next in the story.
In the big dark woods, a mouse is going for a walk when he meets a fox that, thinking the mouse looks like a good meal, tries to lure him back to his den.
The mouse is molested by an owl next, and then a snake, and each time he tricks the animals into thinking there's a bigger, badder beast in the woods than they.Until the mouse meets an actual gruffalo, just as he described it, and the gruffalo wants to eat him too.
The Gruffalo is a children’s book by author Julia Donaldson.
It tells the story of a mouse’s walk in the woods.
The mouse is very cunning and he declines each animals invitation by telling them that he is going for dinner at his friend, the Gruffalo’s house.
The story then turns when the mouse meets a real Gruffalo.
He tells the Gruffalo that he is the most fearsome animal in the forest and shows him by walking back through the forest where all the earlier animals run in fear away.
This in turn scares the Gruffalo away from the mouse.
This meant that my niece could not only listen to me read, but join in by associating the correct sound with the right animal.
The book is very bright with lovely illustrations thus making it even more appealing (even without having read the words yet).
The story revolves predominately around a mouse and his trek through the woods.
Unbeknown to the little mouse, this fictional monster does exist!
But true to form, the little mouse manages to conjure up a plan that will aide his survival back through the woods.
I love how this book can be read over and over, yet the excitement remains!!
