https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22428828-welcome-to-shadowhunter-academy
People say that this tale isn't the best out of the bunch and if that's so, The Shadowhunter Academy must be fan-flipping-tastic (I mean of course it is going to be since it's written by Cassie & Sarah & Maureen)!!!
SIMON I LOVE YOU! Going to get to the next novella ASAP
updated: 06/27/14WE HAVE THE TITLE!!!! Tales From The Shadowhunter Academy This one goes after CoHF, right? I can't believe it. Simon.... my baby is gonna be a Shadowhunter. My emotions are out of control right now.I need this, I want this more than anything. YEAH!!!! I AM SO EXCITED.Please, Cassandra, give us more details and a release date and the book!!!I don't care if people think Cassie is going too far.
WTF Clare?Another one.Will you ever stop?I'm starting to wonder if this is an addiction. Do you need to go to Shadowhunter rehab?
Okay...so the book focuses on Simon. Simon being the main character was probably one of the few highlights for me in what was otherwise a very 'meh' book. For those of you who aren't familiar with the term, let me explain:- Meh refers to ice-cream that isn't blow-your-mind yummy but isn't disgusting either- It can be used to talk about that one relative of yours you only see at the annual family BBQ- It's the word Harry Potter fans use to describe characters like Ernie Macmillan or Hannah Abbott
Been there, done that, saw him get rejected, got a box of tissues.Do I need even more explanations of how the Shadowhunter world is run?No. Just...no.Seeing that this series is centered on a Simon who has completely lost is memory (six books worth, I might add) we, the reader, are forced to take a trip back down memory lane.
It kind of feels like Cassie re-wrote City of Bones, except the main character has memory issues, is male, and is not a redhead.Hopefully the next few books in this spin-off take the plot to higher levels and really bring home a new tale that truly showcases the Simon we know and love :)Pre-reading review:Simon's getting his own book, guys!
I said I wouldn't let Cassandra screw me over again, yet here I am.So, let me tell you I was absolutely happy when Cassie announced these short stories were coming out because we were going to see how Simon may become a Shadowhunter if he survives the Ascend.Anyhow, here we see how Simon struggles with not remembering everything that happened and we also see how difficult is for everyone else.
Yes, Lovelace.I wasn't prepared for the emotion I felt just by seeing that surname, sue me.And he was so damn awesome, I loved him.And then we have my girl Isabelle, *sigh* she was just Izzie, amazing.
I really enjoyed this! Mostly I just love Simon a lot because Simon is the best.I would definitely not want to go to Shadowhunter Academy at this point tho, it seems intense and also terrifying.
“He had to escape. He had to go and become a hero, the way he had been once.”  Oh my sweet, dorky Simon.Welcome to Shadowhunter Academy brought back all the bitterness and hurt City of Heavenly Fire provoked, but it wasn't (that much) sad and frustrating. It's true that I am all too eager to find out the person Simon became after the events that took place in Edom, but by the Angel what I really wanted was the trademark Simon sassiness and his witty retorts! This novel offered lots of fun, ple

Oh, goody, more Shadowhunter books! I remember reading a review (can't remember which sadly) where the person stated the next thing we know Cassie will be writing a book about Simon's time as a rat. Well, looky here.
4.75/5 stars   Welcome to Shadowhunter Academy  was the first novella in Cassandra Clare's new bind up.
I really enjoyed the take on the shadowhunter world from Simon's point of view.
I can tell the new, and old, cast of characters are going to mold together perfectly.
They all have such unique personalities that play off of each others really well.
I recommend starting this collection of novellas if you are a big geek, nerd, or Simon Lewis lover.
I will write a full review on the bind up once I finish all of the novellas.
Ahora, cuando te dicen que para leer The Dark Artifices lo más recomendable es que te leas los Tales From The Shadowhunter Academy pues te replanteas las cosas.
En Welcome to Shadowhunter Academy, el primer relato, nos encontramos con un Simon que ha perdido gran parte de sus recuerdos y que quiere volver a ser el héroe que todos conocen y con el que todos se sienten cómodos.
El pobre debe vivir con las miradas expectantes de todos los que lo conocen y no hacen más que desear que recupere todos sus recuerdos, pero para eso debe Ascender y convertirse en Shadowhunter, cosa que no es nada fácil.
I have missed this world!!
Well, this was awesome and heartbreaking and funny and bittersweet, all at the same time.Simon feeling all that, not knowing why and wanting to escape from all the pain was the saddest thing, but I'm sure he's going to find himself again.
Maybe not the person he used to be exactly, but the one he wants to be.So, if you're a TMI fan, read this soon.
I'm so looking forward to the other short stories, particularly The Lost Herondale.
Hurry up, time!
:)---------MORE CASSIE!I'm so freaking excited I can't even...And to all those who are bitching about Cassie squeezing the Shadowhunter cow or some crap like that...
UM NO WHAT THIS CAN'T BE OVER. I FINISHED THIS IN LIKE 20 MINUTES WHAT DO YOU MEAN I HAVE TO WAIT AN ENTIRE MONTH FOR THE NEXT ONE. WHAT. I AM SO PISSED. NO WORDS. BUT IT WAS AMAZING OK OK OK
“None of this is fair. It isn't fair that part of your life was ripped from you. It's not fair that you were ripped away from me. I'm so angry Simon.”    ISABELLE AND SIMON :3aww so many feelings comes to me with the reading this novel, the memories of the first time I read City of Bones.!As I love the world of Shadowhunters!This novel is great !, a very good start, where we know the Shadowhunters Academy and Simon's initiation on that world. Where I can see again that wonderful personality th
It's not fair that you were ripped away from me.
ISABELLE AND SIMON :3aww so many feelings comes to me with the reading this novel, the memories of the first time I read City of Bones.!As I love the world of Shadowhunters!This novel is great !, a very good start, where we know the Shadowhunters Academy and Simon's initiation on that world.
:)And knowing to George I have nothing but good words for him, I think it will be a great support for Simon in the process of initiation, which makes me very happy because he will not be alone ...
Seriously, this is getting out of control!
Now, you must think that I'm going to send CC to hell and all that crap but actually, no.I read Vacations from Hell, which is a book full of short stories about how a holiday can go bad, and Clare wrote a novella in it.
What upsets me is how much people love it, as a reader and book lover it's sad to see how better written books get worse rating just because those books are not so advertised so are read by less people.I will not read any other books in the Shadowhunter World, though if Clare writes something new which I'll happen to like I'm going to read it without a second thought.
Wow this was an amazing start, I enjoyed it so much!It was hilarious and heartbreaking and I really get to see how Simon cope with what happened to him after then ending of the mortal instruments...
Don't worry no spoilers.When Simon Said: He did not know the warrior ways of being bros.
I was like:He had so many hilarious lines...And George...
Let me tell you he was Scottish and I listened to it on audiobook.In general, the plot wasn't something huge, I don't think it had it was rather an introducing to Shadowhunter Academy.
But near the end, the scene with Simon and Isabelle was just:Looking forward to reading the next and I definetely recommend it!
Oh, by the Angel. I finished CoHF  two days ago  and now I find this and all I can say is: whatever complaining will come with, I'm in.  It's  Simon  you guys
Back in the day when I first started reading, I loved reading with physical books.
This is basically a book where we might get some insight on what happens to Simon and where will this series take us next.
The pain of not knowing anything and forgetting the most important things that have happened to you.
We get to see a little bit of Jace, Clary, Alec and Isabelle and I loved that scene.
I loved the part where Isabelle decides to walk into the classroom and tells everyone to back off from Simon.
Simon and Isabelle's lines to each other were painful.
Primera reacción: I just need this! Después de leerlo:Simon es un amor, pero la trama... meh. Más de lo mismo.
5 Stars - Wishing I got a shadow hunter academy invitation just as much as I want a Hogwarts letter!
I just love reading about the shadow hunter world and after City of Heavenly Fire it's great to catch up with Simon again.
I love his nerdy sense of humour like weeping Angel jokes!
I'm glad to see that even though he's lost the majority of his memories that his personality has remained the same.
Also enjoying reading about Simon's cool mundie roommate George and can't wait to read more about their endeavours in the rest of the book.
Reading this made me realise how much I have missed Simon Lewis... He's literally such a dork and super genuine and funny, I love him so much and just want to be his friend really!This story was really great and actually gave me Harry Potter vibes due to the whole Academy and lessons thing and I loved it! I am well and truly already in love with George to be honest and I'm so excited to see where this series goes!!
I loved this story!
I also really enjoyed seeing the Academy and how it works or how it tries to work.
George surprised me, I ended up really liking him, I can see him and Simon being very good friends.
Simon...
I really loved the way he spoke him mind about the way he saw things.
If only she could forget the boy he once was and just enjoy meeting this new Simon it would me a lot easier.
And speaking of Izzy, I loved her class!
Does anyone remember why Alec has a problem with Simon?
I'd like to know.
SIMON. I love him so much
LOLI thought 5 shadowhunter series was enough.Apparently it wasn't.
“He waved good-bye to all these people he barely knew and somehow loved anyway, and he hoped they could not tell how relieved he was to be going.”  Yikes, we aren’t off to a good start. Okay, this anthology picks up right after the events of City of Heavenly Fire, but Simon still doesn’t remember everything that happened, but he is now enrolled at the New York Institute. We get to meet so many new students, since the Shadowhunter world is in desperate need to replenish their fighters! I alread
“He waved good-bye to all these people he barely knew and somehow loved anyway, and he hoped they could not tell how relieved he was to be going.”
We get to meet so many new students, since the Shadowhunter world is in desperate need to replenish their fighters!
I already hate Jon. I will say that at first, I was so happy with Izzy’s declaration of love for Simon, but the more and more I kept thinking about it, I kept realizing that I was showing double standards, because if a dude would have done that to a girl I would have really disliked it.
This was a pretty good start to a new chapter in the Shadowhunter World.
A tad bit slow, but an interesting start and introduction to the Shadowhunter Academy nonetheless.
I can really see these novellas taking off.I was devastated about what happened to Simon by the end of City of Heavenly Fire but I'm glad things are starting to turn around for him.I'm really looking forward to seeing how Simon's novellas will go.
I love the new characters especially George Lovelace.
He's an absolute sweetheart!I'm hoping to finish all of the novellas before Lady Midnight!
I don't think it'll happen but I'm hoping to get a few novellas down at least.
I want this more than anything. I need it now!! And I will be happy, very happy.(view spoiler)[Simon being a shadowhunter. AWWWWWWWWWWWW. I'm dying to read it. And him to be Izzy's boyfriend because they are adorable together. ❤ (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It's basically Mean Girls with Shadowhunters.
You're not making a good case for the "Shadowhunters are morally complex" when they're also framed as the be-all, end-all, is what I'm getting at.Add the random Isabelle appearance at the end for a Sizzy break-up (which I'm sure won't last very long), completely wrecking the otherwise okay pacing of the story, and the need for several mentions of Jace's uncanny hotness even though Jace isn't even on the same continent, and I'm not feeling very indulgent towards this short story, or the rest of this series.
