https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1380929.Flowering_Wilderness
Beautifully written and deeply moving, this is Galsworthy at his absolute best. I do hesitate to read the next one - the final one in the series. It feels as if Galsworthy became more pessimistic about love, and its ability to endure trauma (or testing) over time. I love the family and the characters (except for that selfish Wilfred), and want them to be happy in the end. But will they?
Amazingly, the issues he chooses are more than current - The divergence of attitudes towards animals between Westerners and others and the problem of Muslim violence.
It is rather enlightening to find that just like current liberals, his tolerance has not boundaries when it comes to Islam.
A Sudanese Muslim fanatic offering his hero, a poet, a choice between death and conversion is a subject of pity.
The real question is whether a British poet should have said: "Shoot and be Damned." Yes, the love story is as wild as the wind though glimpses and Fleur's marriage that it is possible to survive without it.
I liked this book. It moved really fast, and sometimes I thought it moved too fast. The story was a little on the melancholy side, but I feel it worked with the characters. I also liked the humor for the most part.The statements made about society and its effects on individuals were definitely thought provoking. Such expectations do influence decisions. Overall, I liked this. It was very English. If you quiver with English pride, you'd probably enjoy this even more. I don't feel I could grasp all the English-ness.
Sir Lawrence explains, "The individual Englishman in the East is looked up to as a man who isn't to be rattled, who keeps his word, and sticks by his own breed," (Galsworthy 77).
Sir Lawrence explains, "You can't expect Orientals, to whom religion means something, to understand that to some of us it means nothing," (Galsworthy 77).
I think this is question of national pride is due to the novel's setting at the end of World War I, and nearly every male character readers meet had been involved someway in the conflict, even Wilfrid himself.
This novel continues the story of the Cherrell/Charwell family who are related by marriage to Fleur Mont (nee Forsyte, daughter of Galsworthy’s great creation Soames Forsyte).
As the novel opens three figures each stand and contemplate a statue – they start out as strangers – yet they are in actual fact loosely connected.
Then, early into the marriage of Fleur and Michael, Wilfred had developed a rather hopeless passion for his best friend’s wife.
It was based on a premise which I couldn’t fully see from the point of view of the characters (I think either because it upheld a value that is very British and being Australian, I’m not quite on the same wavelength, or it was a value more prized around the time the book was written (1930s) and has lost favour now - or a combination of both), but it was still a good read.It didn’t quite follow the path that I thought it was going to, and then the ending also wasn’t quite what I expected, but it kept me hanging on throughout, wanting to read more to find out what happened next.
3.5 my least favorite so far. Although it does give great insight into the mind set of 1930s G.B.
Book 8 of the FORSYTE CHRONICLES (Book 2 of the trilogy END OF THE CHAPTER) mostly concerns the love between Wilfred Desert (the poet infatuated with Fleur Forsyte in THE SILVER SPOON) and Dinny Cherrill.Lots of wooing, missed opportunities and oppressive societal distress. Enjoyed it, but not the best. Mostly a lot of angst.
FW is the eighth novel in Galsworthy's Forsyte Saga, and part of the final trilogy which focuses on the Cherrell family, relations of the original Forsytes.
Dinny Cherrell is delightful, one of my favourite characters in the Forsyte Saga and I like this final trilogy much better than the earlier novels.FW tells the story of the relationship between Dinny and Wilfrid Desert, a complex poet who has turned from Christian to Muslim to save his life in 'the East' and written a highly controversial poem about his experience.While I enjoyed the account of Dinny's great romance, I do find some of Galsworthy's lengthy descriptions and philosophising TOO long.
More than any relationship since Soames and Irene, the courting of Wilfrid and Dinny challenges allegiances and prejudices. I never knew where the story would go. This is narrative control of the highest order, characterisation you care about and the larger themes painted in both broad, confident, telling strokes and in minute detail. A contender for my favourite of the lot.
A Modern Comedy:-The second part of Forsyte Chronicles begins - with The White Monkey, first volume of the Modern Comedy - where the Forsyte Saga left off, with a six years gap that includes what was then called the great war and is now known as the first world war.
..............................................................................................................................................End of the Chapter:-In the third trilogy of Forsyte chronicles the story centres on cousins of Michael Mont, mainly on his mother's side, the Charwells who are socially somewhere bordering on landed gentry and aristocracy, unlike Forsytes who made their way up from farmer to various money making professions (solicitor, investment manager, builders, stockbrokers and more) to artists and gentry of leisure.
In this book the "Why it's not good to be an upper class twitt" theme revolves around British racism.Wilfred Desert went to Darfur and was forces at gunpoint to convert to Islam.
This, according to all the characters he chooses to listen to, marks all Britishers as non-ubermench and therefore vulnerable to attack from the people England is trying to continue tyranning over.What a crime!Dinny, the sharp and beloved character the story revolves around, falls in love with Wilfred because she has a knack for lame ducks and Wilfred is just the right kind of pouty I'm-so-speshul-take-care-of-me-mommy kind of dashing to sweep ladies with not enough self confidence.Luckily, Wilfred is man enough to go fistycuffing with one of these racists (this one eugenics-flavores, but a baddie ugenics-flavoured, not a goodie eugenics-flavoured like kind uncle Adrian).
In this mesmerizing novel, Galsworthy creates a no-win situation of a young man who recants his Anglican faith, and the young girl who becomes helplessly devoted to him notwithstanding political and moral consequences of the time.
The controversial topic, in many ways, is timeless and timely and, how family, friends, and acquaintances react to the young man's renouncement makes for contemplative and lively reading.
As always, Galsworthy's character development is superb, as the reader, not only becomes more acquainted with each character, but also begins to understand their thoughts and motives during a difficult time.
This book is definitely a return to form after "The End of the Chapter." It's interesting that Galsworthy resurrects Wifred Desert, a character from Fleur's life, as the lover of Dinny Cherrell. Also, the discussions of the values of Victorian England -- God and country -- are cleverly examined to determine if they have any relevant to post-WWI life. The answers are complex, and the conflicts are well handled.
Galsworthy continues the life if Dinny, the least interesting of his Forsyte family protagonists. She is something of a goody-two-shoes, not the slowly redeemed sinners that defined his better Forsyte protagonists. This is a sad departure.
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts...............................................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008........................................................................A Modern Comedy:-The second part of Forsyte Chronicles begins - with The White Monkey, first volume of the Modern Comedy - where the Forsyte Saga left off, with a six years gap that includes what was then called the great war and is now known as the first world war.
3.9
Dinny's lost her heartthose sad eyes, that bitter mouthso much angst to soothe.
This cannot be considered suitable for Dinny by her family and clan, and the story cannot be kept quiet, not the least due to the pride and sense of uncertainty Desert has about his own actions, and it ends up in her heart breaking with him leaving for east once again........................................................................One of the major beautiful things about Forsyte Chronicles - all three trilogies, but the first and third in particular - is the love of the author for beauty of England in general and countryside, nature in particular.
This book brilliantly evokes England of the 1920s and 30s and the class that ran the British Empire.
The story revolves around Dinny's love, Wilfred, and his renunciation of Christianity and conversion to Islam at knifepoint.
The disgrace of this at a time when only the mirage of English moral superiority holds the Empire together is crafted in a way in which only a masterly novelist could achieve.
The intertwining of a variety of family threads keeps the tale moving along at a good pace and Galsworthy's depiction of the ache of doomed love is sublime.
A very grown up read!
Penultimate story in the Forsyte Chronicles and again disappointing. A "will they/won't they" romance set against a matter of honour which will seem astounding to today's readers. Galsworthy seemed to lose his way towards the end of this series of books.
Much of the vim and focus of the earlier Forsyte Saga is missing here, as other reviewers have pointed out.
But it's important to realize this is a trilogy of its own, not meant to continue the Forsytes' story.
All in all, I find the Charwells a more likable bunch than the Forsytes.
And Galsworthy's gently ironic prose remains a delight.
Galsworthy seems to approach matters from an agnostic, and possibly even atheistic, view, but he does a good job of asking questions, rather providing answers, and as such, the book offers worthwhile food for thought whatever your personal views.
I am left with no desire to read anymore of the forsythe sage. Mainly that is because I prefer books with happy endings. This book non only ends sadly, but alludes to how other stories in this family also end sadly. All in all it was an alright read, but full of a lot of useless description and philosyphising.
loads better than Maid in Waiting and any of the Fleur-Jon based Forsyte stories
Didn't like this as much because it was mainly a 'what happened after' Maid in Waiting & it was all about Dinny's relationship with Wifred Desert.
