https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/534309.Black_Jack_Vol_1
He operates for those who can afford him, and usually can't go to a regular hospital -due that they may be criminals or some sort of individual that is not accepted by mainstream culture or society.Vol. 1 is a series of narratives with Black Jack as he deals with various victims of the atomic bomb, various cancers, weird growths, sex changes/gender issues, and even Frankenstein issue once in awhile.
If House was a little more fun, if he could do stuff like full body transplants, you'd have Black Jack.I'm always game for a Tezuka book.
It's another book off the shelf of stuff I wanted to read and then divest myself of before moving.
But it'll probably end up in the Little Free Library up the street, which has got to be the awesome-est LFL ever.
I've been putting some great shit in there, some weird shit, and some good reads, and you should be so lucky as to live close to that Little Free Library.
5 saoTrên cả tuyệt vời!Truyện mang tính nhân văn rất cao, nhưng không hề nhàm chán mà thậm chí còn tạo sự háo hức nơi mình mỗi khi bắt đầu một câu chuyện mới.Những tình huống lạ thường, những kiến thức y học thú vị mà chuẩn xác, nét vẽ đơn giản nhưng sống động. Bộ manga này đối với mình không thua kém gì những quyển tiểu thuyết lớn khác cả.
I see no angels here thou it's all about "doctors" who tend to contort the proper meanings of saving people's lives.
"Black Jack" is a comic with an irresistibly wacky premise.
He's a brilliant - and totally unlicensed - surgeon who can cure any illness and heal even the most catastrophic injury.
In addition to being totally bonkers, this comic is incredibly well-crafted.
By the end of this volume, I cared about the character of Black Jack (sad-sack misunderstood genius with a heart of gold!) waaaay more than I thought I would.
The one exception is the issue about the (totally false) side effects of a hysterectomy, which is just wildly offensive on a number of levels.
I used to own ALL the books of this series (the original comics in Japanese), so I am pleasantly surprised to find that they are translated into English.
His background supports this medical drama, providing interesting details, while I understand that, because Black Jack series was written in 1970s to early 80s, the medical understanding and procedures might have changed since then.
So Black Jack charges outrageous amount of money for his surgeries.
And he lives up to his price.
How can we possibly determine what price is appropriate?
Tezuka dares to ask such fundamental questions about life, money, and medical/professional ethics.
For grown-up readers, I also highly recommend Phoenix, Vol. 1: Dawn series.
Black Jack, an unlicensed but brilliant surgeon who dresses like a Victorian gentleman and appears in the nick of time to solve the weirdest medical cases, is a great mercurial protagonist.
Piece by piece Black Jack's baroque backstory is revealed, but there's always an element of mystery, and the emphasis is on the situations he resolves via his medically impossible skills, from a sick super-computer to a sushi chef who loses his arms.Tezuka, the "God of Manga", knows a bit about hypercompetence himself, of course.
Each short story is tightly constructed and satisfying, though for me Black Jack is a little short of Tezuka's best work, just because he's so great at grander and more pitiless narratives in longer form.
Black Jack convinces the twin to allow the operation and he builds a doll body for her and carefully installs all the organs after removal, in effect creating his living doll/daughter sidekick, Pinoko.
If only Papa Freud had lived long enough to see this case study.3)"Confluence." Black Jack meets up with a young colleague of his who works alone as a ship's surgeon.
Later it turns out that Black Jack was at medical school with this doctor and that the doctor was once a woman, but now presents as a man.
4.5! Review on my website!
Not the easiest material for everyone to absorb; but if you can manage to swallow the bitter medicine this manga tends to offer at first glance, you may find yourself warming up to the sharp wit of the medical mercenary, along with the harsh lessons he has to offer to humanity(at a price).
Tezuka doesn't sugar-coat human nature, war, nor the gruesomeness of surgery and the medical field overall, which is what drew me to the series.
Provides interesting diagrams of anatomy and explanations of ailments featured in various chapters.
Not recommended for everyone, but it is definitely a unique read, especially for fans interested in Tezuka's more mature works.
Most of the surgeries are so weird or extreme that it has a sci-fi feel, yet, Tezuka does his research, so all the details make you think that you think maybe they could be done.The humor is broad and uneven.Each story has some kind of moral or message and those range from very subtle and moving to hit you over the head blatant.and Blackjack's sidekick/adopted daughter is annoyingly over the top cute, yet her origin story was one of the grossest in the whole volume.Not always a fun read, but weirdly fascinating and keeps you turning the page.
Ahh, Black Jack.
We used to have a running joke in the apartment.
Got a cold?
Headache?
Surgery!
Surgery!
Stomach bug?
Surgery!Black Jack can fix anything with surgery.
Its a little like magic, except that I understand the greater part of the treatments, at least for the real diseases, are at least grounded in reality.
But I'll be honest, I'm not there for the medical stuff, realistic or not.
I'm there for Black Jack and the series of short stories in which we see him interacting with the world and visiting upon it his own brand of genius - and his own brand of empathy.
The world's greatest surgeon is unlicensed and charges a lot of money. But he also performs miraculous surgeries. This book collects seven or eight essentially unrelated tales of Black Jack's medicinal triumphs. Each story's engaging and well drawn. A pleasure to read, but not something that I'm interested in reading indefinitely, and Vertical seems to have an endless supply to Black Jack books to translate.
Brilliant. Childish, predictable, insane, funny, stupid, weird, crazy. I can see why Tezuka Osamu is the godfather of manga. So much fun to read.
Awesome Manga. A fun glimpse into the medical field for aspiring medical professionals.
My favourite Tezuka. This series is legit enjoyable nonsense.
In the vintage manga Black Jack by Osamu Tezuka, the eponymous protagonist Black Jack is an unlicensed surgeon, free from the corrupt bureaucratic government, who uses his unmatched scalpel skills to treat the poor and cure even the most catastrophic injury.
As a character, Black Jack indiscriminately cures his patients, from common folk to supernatural beings -- even animals at some points.
However, despite his convoluted moral code, Black Jack is compassionate and dedicated to his craft.
He treats those who touch him with their kindness or struggles in life for free, and to sum up, he uses his profession in heroic deeds.Overall, Black Jack an absolute joy to read.
I did not grow up reading Osamu Tezuka, though I have read many works of authors that have followed him.I found out following this book that Tezuka had received a medical degree from Osaka University which surprised me quite a bit.
The level of medical understanding demonstrated in these books is remarkably limited, and not something I would expect from someone who graduated with a degree in medicine (albeit in Japan in the 1950s).There is something jarring between the simplified caricature of the protagonist and most of the characters in this work, the hyper-cute-to-the-point-of-being-out-of-place Pinoko, and the realistically depicted grotesque surgeries.
My second Osamu Tezuka read.
In this series we follow the unlicensed and mysterious Doctor Black Jack, a surgeon capable of full body transplants and other miracles with the scalpel.
The manga master ( who graduated as a medical doctor himself) spins one wacky plot after another.
I found most of them fun and a bit crazy even if they remain in a sort of sketch form, fast and uncluttered.
As in many other Japanese manga, there is some fixation with the 'cute', the outburst dialogue, the characters with one single identity : bad guy, rich guy, doctor, sushi chef, serial killer, reporter, etc, technology and biological freak cases.
I dabble at best, but for me this was more of a curiosity than a great read.
So I'm intrigued by Black Jack, a mysterious, scarred Doctor who shows up and performs medical miracles in each of a dozen stories.
Black Jack performs a complete hysterectomy and saves her life.
Unfortunately, because she no longer has her female organs she's no longer a "woman," and they go their separate ways.
Also one of the stories has a black character who is drawn in a disturbingly racist way.
Still, I could see reading more in the series.
Like I said, intriguing.

I don't know if he considered this a "prestige" project or if he ate a particularly good box of Wheaties the day he drew this, but the art really works in a way I've never seen Tezuka work before -- all the weird ink effects are in the right place, and everything looks real as it ever does.
Short, aimless stories, almost tone pieces, but there's still the soap opera perfection combined with cartoon zaniness that one sees in the best of Astro Boy, and Tezuka's drawings of internal organs (always done in his landscape style) are a real treat.
I was so excited to get back into Manga and I enjoyed so much about the story even though it's pretty weird but this is SO sexist. Like having a hysterectomy means you're no longer a woman? What?! I read the whole thing just to see if maybe he was going to come to his senses. Also, the one depiction of a black person seemed pretty racist to me. I will, obviously, not be continuing this series.
Very unique and funny. Strong characterisation. Great story twists. Hilarious drawing, especially for greedy/stupid supporting characters HAHAHA. I can't describe how much I love the female assistant she's insane HAHAHA.
Osamu Tezuka is very romantic but also critical and ethical.This one gives you a deep question of what is the academic authority and the value of humanism. Especially, this one will penetrate your heart and rebuke your recognition of that you are, so, one of human beings.
Not a big fan. It was ok, but that's all I can say.
Overall, Black Jack is a decent collection of stories involving the titular character. There is a particular story that I feel is 'iffy' in modern society but I would still recommend Black Jack.
More great stuff from Osamu Tezuka. Finished Volume 2 this past week and will continue to seek out more Black Jack stories.
Um. I couldn't quite get past the fact that this series is seriously sexist and fairly racist.
The man, as it turns out, is Osamu Tezuka's manga alter-ego, appearing in the scene for no other reason than to lighten the situation.Another instance, after hearing the news that his protégé was struck and killed by a truck, a sushi chef runs from his place of employ, alongside Astro Boy (Tezuka's most famous creation).
Tezuka mixes them both together, and manages to achieve what so very few could without risking self-mockery.Black Jack is the famed unlicensed surgeon of manga.
the comic/human element.That said, Black Jack is a very appealing manga, but not universally so.
