https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2597051-woman-and-the-new-race
Looking back 90 years after the fact, widespread use of birth control has not resulted in the utopia that Margaret Sanger seemed to predict - i.e. fewer wars, elimination of the practice of abortion, increased morality and spirituality of women.
Clearly, one of the primary uses of birth control in the modern age has been to postpone marriage and allow for multiple "sex" partners before settling down with one.I have heard from other sources that Margaret Sanger had some racist beliefs and hoped to eliminate the black race through birth control.
However, there was a definite emphasis on reducing the number of "poor" and "feebleminded" children in hopes to create a "new race."
Well, I'm slightly obsessed with Wonder Woman and while reading the history of Wonder Woman's creation, I learned that her creator, William Moulton Martson, was enamored with strong, empowered women, and that one of his love interests had an aunt named Margaret Sanger....So that's how I found this book, which seemed interesting, and it was.
But I had to force myself through this book because even though Margaret Sanger did indeed appear to be a strong, empowered women, and even though it did appear that--to her best abilities--she did fight for the empowerment of women, her logic was often out of whack.

There are only two flaws in this book: One is that Mrs. Sanger's ideas have succeeded so well that you already know the facts Woman and the New Race presents from popular medical texts, gynecological advisings, and high school sex ed courses.
Woman and the New Race has a whole chapter of letters from women begging Mrs. Sanger for birth control advice, women who could have managed two or three children nicely but ended up with eight, or ten, or more, not all living.
Until recently the dissemination of birth control information (pills, condoms, you name it) was strictly forbidden, it was punishable under the Obscenity act, and nurses and doctors were frequently jailed for helping women prevent childbirth.
Margaret Sanger, a nurse, stepped out in the fight, hoping that importing birth control and other information from Europe, where it had been proven both viable and was legal, would lead to a new, stronger generation of Americans.
Definitely a feminist, a socialist, a supporter of passive eugenics, and a Malthusian. It is incredible to think that people believe Sanger is a proponent of racially based eugenics, an advocator of abortion and infanticide, and a Nazi sympathizer. There is a lot of disinformation and purposeful lies being put out about Sanger. It is best to read her work for yourself. However as with all historical literature, you must keep in mind the author's position in history.
Chilling obdurateness wrapped up in an eerie smile- this book shows the true face of the founder of Planned Parenthood, a racist and eugenicist, who hides behind the guise of helping women in distress. This book gave me the willies.
Different races are bringing different cultural strengths, so the melting pot will be able to combine all these good things—but only if birth control is used with the intention to weed out the undesirables.
Such an American race, containing the best of all racial elements, could give to the world a vision and leadership beyond our present imagination.”…This is definitely eugenics.Finally, I thought her claims about birth control and basic freedom were very problematic.
She claims not only that birth control is “the means by which woman attains basic freedom,” but also that it is the basic freedom of her sex.
Margaret Sanger's batshit eugenics and birth control manifesto. Rife with idiotic nonsense, racism, supremacist bullshit, utopian delusions, misanthropy and cynicism. In other words, a perfect template for contemporary feminism. Vile and contemptible in almost every way.full review here:http://wp.me/p6lj8t-9X
A brief summary: "Overpopulation is the source of all of mankind's troubles. Therefore, giving woman freedom from the men and children who enslave them and allowing her 'feminine spirit' to flourish (exclusively by using birth control) will solve all of mankind's troubles. Also if most people do not have sex whenever they want their genitals will shrivel up and they will go crazy and die."
This book was fascinating. Margaret Sanger was a feminist who challenged society's thinking of who women are and what they want. At some points in the book I was cheering Ms. Sanger on. At other points I was appalled at her ideas. But no matter what part of the book I was in, I was fascinated.
I'm just getting ammunition on this eugenicist psychopath.
The founder of planned parenthood advocated for birth control but for all the wrong reasons. (eugenics)Surprisingly, she was anti-abortion.
One of my ultimate favorite's, she was the first to pioneer the woman's movement in the advancement of birth control. Having personally been professionally involved in the marketing and promotion of two top birth control pills from 1993 to 2001, this book was one of the first acquisitions in my library on the history of woman's health. She passed away in 1966. Topics include...Abortion, Large Families, Two Classes of Woman, Legislation, Struggle for Freedom.
This book was mentioned in a documentary about the founder of Planned Parenthood, Margaret Sanger. I'd like to read it for myself.
I mean...besides all the eugenics, she has some good points! LOL. Besides the eugenics.
epub version
