https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1254640.Hoyle_s_Rules_of_Games
If you want to play card games you pick up a deck of Hoyle or Bicycle cards.
If you want to learn about card games you go to the expert: HOYLE's RULES OF GAMES BY ALBERT MOREHEAD.
I play every day but I wanted to learn more versions than the standard of Solitaire & Spider so I went to the expert, well the expert is dead,but I went to the next best thing,this book.
Not only does it give you instructions on card games but games of the retro group including Cribbage, Chess,etc.
Dont miss this great reference book.
It is what it says it is on the cover, it's laid out the way you think it ought be, it has a table of contents that is, again, exactly what it ought be, understated illustrations, condensed histories of each game at the beginning of its description/example .
It has a sincerity and authority that I still can't understand why contemporary instructional books react so cynically against, ("for dummies," "This isn't your average how-to book .
. .").This book is a classic on par with Kodak's books on photography.The older editions cost like 2 bucks if you spend any time in used bookstores, and those are the best ones, from a purely aesthetic standpoint.
By far, this is the best rule book I own, and a hard copy is the way to go, rather than digital. I particularly like that this rule book has several versions of backgammon, which is a great reference for playing it. Yay!
First printed in 1742, this book has been expanded to include more modern games.
This book also covers dice games and board games.
After describing the main category of the game, it talks about the derivations and other things.
Lastly, it talks about video games, but I don't really know if that is necessary though.
I mean, it talks about Freecell, Minesweeper and other stuff.I picked up this book since it looked interesting, and because I wanted to know what a "trick-taking game" was supposed to be.
It also has further references for some reason, but you could probably just Google that sort of thing.
This is the reference books on games, both card and board games: Scrabble, Poker, Bridge, Gin Rummy, Hearts, Solitaire, Dice Games, Dominoes, Roulette, Chess, Checkers, Backgammon, Cribbage, Parlor Games such as Charades--even Children's games such as Fish, Old Maid and War are here. Along with the rules there are even tips on strategy. One of those really useful reference books.
Although the information was a bit redundant to read from cover to cover, when I finished this book today, the information provided was good enough for me to understand the forgotten rules of some games from years past.
I will continue to return to this book whenever I find myself with a deck of cards and lots of spare time. Well-organized and very concise with regards to rules. Who would have known that so many rules could be so much fun?
Ok, I didn't read the entire book word for word because let's face it that would have taken a long time. But the rules to the games that I did read were really interesting. It actually gave rules and where the games came from, and I found it to be really interesting.
Both DH and I grew up with Hoyle in our house. It's a must own! We actually have 2 copies here - so we don't rush the other person who must also look at the rules. We do love playing all kinds of games and Hoyles is the definitive reference.
Essential for resolving arguments! Excellent for teaching new games.
Saying I have read this is a bit of a lie. More like dip into it if and when I need to!
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11239725
When I was a kid I read and re-read this book - - just loved the opening illustration and brief history of each type of game.
Great resource for the rules of games.
Been playing cards and games for a while now..lol. Really need to learn some of the proper rules.
Play According to Hoyle: Hoyle's Rules of Games by Albert H. Morehead (2002)
Just remembered I read this one time
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11768933
