https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/845403.Mufaro_s_Beautiful_Daughters
John Steptoe's absolutely brilliant Mufaro's Beautiful Daughters is basically an African take on the globally-known and ever popular Cinderella folklore theme (both narrative and illustrations are outstanding in every way and their lovely and evocative marriage, their delightful combination, turn Mufaro's Beautiful Daughters into truly a shining and glistening gem of a picture book, and not only for children, but actually for anyone interested in and appreciative of global folk and fairy tales).
Loved it!
The illustrations are magnificent, with lovely depictions of the people and animals.
This tale is fairy tale like predictable but very entertaining.
I appreciated how the author-illustrator gave credit to the folktale that was his inspiration and how at the beginning he translates the meanings of a few names.
(But, why name each of your daughters that way?!
Self-fulfilling prophesy???)The Children's Books group has chosen this book for one of its picture books for April, for the Picture Books Club there; the April theme is royalty.
This book fits well enough, and it’s such a beautiful book that I’m glad it was chosen.
“Mufaro’s Beautiful Daughters” is a Caldecott Honor Book by John Steptoe and it is about how Mufaro’s two beautiful daughters are invited to the king’s palace so that the king will choose a worthy bride, but Manyara, the greedy sister, tries to go off to the king’s palace by herself and meets some disastrous results.
“Mufaro’s Beautiful Daughters” is a magnificent tale that children will definitely read for many years!John Steptoe has done a magnificent job at both illustrating and writing this book.
John Steptoe’s illustrations are extremely beautiful as he makes the characters look extremely realistic and colorful.
I have not read this book in such a long time. I was probably 10 years old or younger when I first read this book. Reading Mufaro's Beautiful Daughters again brought back the memory of how inspiring and moving it was. I remembered the plot, but what was new to me this time was the illustrations, language and how the story used multiple subjects to disguise the prince. This story touches lightly on the African culture through these things. I liked the story when I was younger, but even more so now that I am older.
I should say this is a gorgeous, gorgeous book and Steptoe deserved all the awards and acclaim for it as a work of art. What it is NOT is a book to introduce children to either Cinderella or Zimbabwe. He was inspired by a visit to Zimbabwe to do the story and beautiful it is, but it is absolutely not the way to introduce children to the continent of Africa or Zimbabwe, for that matter. And since the story is one made-up by Steptoe I question using it as an intro into Cinderella stories.
I remember having thins book as a child and bought it for my own daughters a few years ago. I've read it many times, and love that something I cherished could be passed on to them, teaching a great lesson in being kind to others, including your own sister.
The illustrations are wonderfully detailed, it is obvious why it received a Caldecott honor; I loved that Steptol reflects African culture in a beautiful way, rather than depicting it as dirty or "third world" as we are so accustomed to seeing.
This reflection allows an outlet for learning about the African culture, which is one that young students rarely hear about outside the context of slavery, which I believe is as important as its moral lesson.
It also provides an alternate version of Cinderella, which can allow students to compare how stories can vary by culture.
This is a fabulous tale, full of magic, wonder, kindness, grace and even greed and jealousy.
The illustrations are marvelous and really enhance the story.
Our girls enjoyed this story a lot and I had fun reading it to them.
This book was selected as one of the April 2011 Royalty themed reads for the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Book group here at Goodreads.
This book was also selected as one of the books for the August 2016- Caldecott Honor discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.This book was also selected as one of the books for the May 2018 - Boston Globe-Horn Book Picture Book Award Winners 1983-1990 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Mufaro had two very beautiful daughters who lived with him.
Nyasha was kind, considerate, and very beautiful.
Manyara, Mufuaro’s other daughter was very cruel, mean, and rude.
On day, the king decided he wanted to get married and invited "The Most Worthy and Beautiful Daughters in the Land" to appear before him.
Manyara wanted her father only to send her, but Mufaro decided that only the king could choose between his most worthy daughters.
Manyara treated all of these people very rudely, however Nyasha was kind.
Her kindness in the end is what won the heart of the king, and they lived happily ever after!
Mufaro's Beautiful Daughters is loosely based on the traditional Cinderella story, and elements of that can be seen throughout the story.
It begins with two sisters, Manyara who is selfish and cruel and Nyasha who is clever and kind.
Mufaro never saw the difference in personality in his two daughters, but Manyara continually mistreated her sister and others, much like the evil step-sisters in Cinderella.
When the King asked to see the sisters, they were put through a series of character tests along the way.
This would be a good book to use when exploring lessons and themes with younger readers.
A tale of kindness and selfishness, and their corresponding consequences.I've loved this book ever since I saw it on "Reading Rainbow" as a child.
everything made a huge impression on me.SO, as an adult I was anxious-excited and anxious-apprehensive to find out if the book would still be as wonderful as I remembered.I still love it!
Yes, upon reading it as an adult there are things that I would like a teeny more depth to, and for that I'd probably have awarded this four stars, but I thought the fact it made such an impression on me when I was younger deserved the extra star.
This Caldecott Honor picture Book of an African folk tale is illustrated and shared with us by John Steptoe.
I highly recommend, however, listening to this tale as it is read by Robin Miles and following along in the book.
I think this book could be used in a classroom curriculum in multiple ways, such as unit studying the message and characters in the fables and folk tales from foreign countries, that could include as "How many spots does a leopard have?
Mufaro's Beautiful Daughters: An African Tales was an African tale reminiscent of Cinderella.
The illustrations were lovely.
I can see how it was a Caldecott Honor Book.All the woman of the land are invited to the king's palace so he can choose his worthy bride.
Both Mufaro's daughters are beautiful, but only one is beautiful both inside and out.
I love the magic of the story and the way the story ends.
A classic good trumps evil tale.This was another wonderful monthly read of the Picture Book Club http://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/5...
This story teaches a lesson in kindness.
Mufaro (meaning “happy man” in Shona) is a king who has two beautiful daughters one named Manyara, meaning “ashamed”, who is a mean spirited princess while the other named Nyasha meaning “mercy”, is kind towards everyone even her mean sister.
The images in the book reflected the events in text but they showed what the text didn’t and couldn’t describe about the setting of this story.
The story can not only teach kids about how their kindness will be rewarded but it can also introduce them to some aspects of the African culture.
Inspired by an African folktale, this story relays the virtue of kindness to its readers.
Two sisters who have little in common outside of their shared beauty live with their father in a small village.
One sister is bad tempered while the other is kind, a fact they both hide from their adoring father.
The story takes place against a beautiful Zimbabwean backdrop alive with an abundance of greens and brightly colored birds.
The book may seem predictable at times, but fantastical elements and a surprise ending will keep readers on their toes.
I read this when I was about 10 at my school and it was a beautiful story about beauty not always being on the outside, but the inside, and that being a good person was better than being beautiful.I've always kept this story in my heart and I think it's a great reendition of Cinderella for little black girls and even other races.Give it a try.
I like retellings of folk tales and this one was good.
I liked the way the story included kindness to animals and those in a weaker position than yourself.
I didn't like the way that when Nyasha's sister was unkind to her she knew she mustn't bother her father about this.
I think it's really important for children to always feel comfortable telling their parents if something has happened to them they don't like.
The illustrations were technically very good, almost like photos in places but I felt had a dated 80's feel, but I think children will really enjoy them.
Steptoe died tragically at age 38 of AIDS. This is his most acclaimed book and I thoroughly enjoyed it. Everything from the lush paintings to the exquisite prose. All children ( and teens and adults) should experience the lessons contained in the text. Teachers take note, this book is a wonderful choice for a lesson on character education. Caldecott award winner.
Gorgeous illustrations and a quality folk tale.
I enjoyed reading this book. It’s based on an African culture. After reading this book, I decided to choose a text –to text concept because It reminded me of the book Cinderella. I would incorporate this story in my classroom by using a vienn diagraph to compare and contrast two different versions of this story. I would also ask open ended question to have the children think to get appropriate responses.
One of his daughters is Nyasha, who is a kind and selfless young lady.
Without Mufaro knowing, Manyara constantly tells her sister that she will one day be queen and Nyasha will be her servant.
Mufaro said that both his daughters go, but Manyara tried to convince her father that she was the best candidate, for Nyasha would miss him so.
The story ended with Mufaro exclaiming he was the happiest father, for he had two beautiful daughters, Nyasha the queen and Manyara a servant in the queen’s household.
Then she meets an old woman who advises her wisely regarding a group of laughing trees and a man who Manyara will come across in her journey.
As Nyasha passes the same route, she gives food to the hungry boy and thanks the old women with a gift for her help.Finally, having reached the kingdom, Mufaro and Nyasha find Manyara running out the king’s chambers frightened.
Nyasha entered the king’s chamber to find Nyoka sitting on the throne revealing that he is the king, as well as the little hungry boy Nyasha had fed and the wise old women Nyasha had gifted.
Besides the great pictures, the story of Mufaro’s Daughters was inspired by a folk tale and is a great lesson for children.
The lessons of just rewards, kindness and compassion, manners and conduct, and sibling rivalry make this a great book for children to understand the importance of values and the importance of their behavior even at a young age.
Outside of African geography, this book can also be used as a multicultural lesson for the Cinderella story.
I highly recommend this book to teachers, it is great in the classroom.
Little did she know that her greed and unkind fullness heart will not lead to good things.The pictures in this book are very detailed and make the story come to life.
I gave this book 5 stars because the whole story behind the tale is a great lesson for students to know.
The message in this story is not to be greedy and mean to people you come across especially your own family.
Classroom ConnectionA classroom activity that could work for this book, which comes from teachingbooks.net, could be to write the story as to what happens next.
The book follows the traditional fairytale pacing in which the story begins with a sort of "once upon a time" feeling, quickly introduces the problem, follows a rhythm of threes, and tidily provides a resolution.
Unlike most Cinderella stories, the "evil sister" is not truly evil, just a little bratty.
It is very interesting and follows the typical rhythm that children expect from fairy tales (the sister encounter the king in three guises over the course of the book).
The book also has a moral to it that is as simple or complex as you want it to be.
From the beginning of the story, the one sister, Manyara, is very rude and selfish, and ignores others.
Manyara is visited along the way by a mythical creature who can transform from human to animal, and is put through a series of tests of kindness by this creature.
The end of this story shows children that it pays off to be kind to others, and that good prevails over evil.
I would use this story when introducing a lesson about right and wrong, good and evil, and kindness and ask students what they think the lesson of this story is.
Manyara insults many people on her way to the kingdom, including a starving boy who asks for food.
Nyasha, on the other hand, is kind to everyone she meets, feeding the same starving boy.
Nyasha is even kind to the snake she meets in the kingdom.
The snake then transforms into the king and reveals that he was disguised as all of the people the sisters confronted along the way.
Because of this book’s similarities and differences to our traditional Cinderella story, it could be used when teaching a unit that compares and contrasts cultures.
Her older sister tells her one day that when she is queen she is going to love having her little sister live with ....as her servant.
Mufaro keeps a garden where one day a garden snake comes to visit that she keeps and is kind to.
At the end the Nyasha is greeted by a snack rather than the Prince, who tells her of all of her flaws.
The snake turns into a Prince and marries Mufaro who has proven to be the most worthy and Nyasha lives with them as a servant.I did not realize until I was writing the summary that this story is the African version of Cinderalla.
I read this book before introducing the topic of 'stories from another culture' to a class of year 5 children.
This story, based in Zimbabwe, follows two sisters Manyara and Nyasha who both want to be chosen as the King's wife.
The two sisters are very different characters, with Nyasha being presented as loving, caring and kind, whereas her sister Manyara is rather mean, jealous and inconsiderate.
This story allowed the pupils in my class to consider the features of traditional tales in the UK and compare them to those form other cultures.
