https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8525590-wither
I don't want to sound too lectur-y, but these new, young writers probably do not realize that to create a dystopian/post-apocalyptic society that is believable, they need to: 1) understand how our current world works; 2) be able to identify cultural, political, economical trends that can possibly affect humanity in a major way in future; 3) realize that when they set their eyes on extrapolating a certain trend, they need to have their characters react to it in a logical (in terms of human psychology) way.Let's take Wither.
then - coughing, blood, expiration.so, to keep the population going, and to provide new babies to experiment with, many young girls are kidnapped and sold into marriages where they are treated like goddesses, frankly, except they can't leave and they are expected to fulfill all those wifely duties with the highest bidder.see, here is my problem.
if you are going to die in four years anyway, why not live like this??
the whole time, i'm like - come on, girl, it isn't that bad...
Let me start by saying that I know numerous people who liked or loved this book, and that I see why someone would and I mean no disrespect to your opinions.
Florida's average elevation, by the way, is 100 feet above sea level, which means that in Rhine's world it should be 115 feet below the water.
Between ice caps, catastrophic war, and messed up genetic experiences, this world is bizarre beyond readability....characters who are supposedly smart, or who know about things, and yet think Christopher Columbus circumnavigated the world in the Nina, the Pinta, and the Santa Maria.
Here's what I admired about DeStefano's writing: she made me like Linden before she revealed his ignorance about the death and destruction surrounding the world around him.
Even as she acknowledges the lure of freedom, Rhine worries about her newfound family, and is seduced by the idea of living out her life in the comfort and solicitude of Linden's home.Every character tugged a separate heartstring, from the little domestic Dierdre, to Gabriel, so very much in love and so very helpless to do anything about it.
Rhine is a character I will remember for a long time, strong and courageous and pragmatic and dreamy and smart and vulnerable and so very real.
The post-apocalyptic garbage was extraneous to the story, which, surprisingly enough, was basically about polygamy and babies.
(I know, I can’t get away from the polygamy topic.) This story could have been set in the present day and it would have made more sense.That reminds me of another of my many beefs with this book.
It’s a book about pregnancy, polygamy, and bath salts, disguised as a post-apocalyptic adventure.
Lose the post-apoc business and make it a story about contemporary polygamy and child brides.
I know it’s setting up for sequels, but even the idea of a sequel, considering the way the book ends, makes me crazy.
nether regions), the whole of the planet has destroyed itself in viral chaos except for North American (which, upon first mention, had me going 'are you fucking kidding me?' either the author is shitting on the rest of the planet for being feral idiots that couldn't survive the virus or she's shitting on Americans for being dumb enough to believe that we're the only ones superior enough to survive this, either way it's bad), girls getting slaughtered for not being bride material (in a society where a womb is like gold, makes total sense O_o) and the kick to the nuts the author gives sensical dystopian fiction, my suspension of disbelief was pureed in a blender and drunk for breakfast.The world failed hard.
***EDIT: This was not in my original review, and while I did say it on my blog, twitter and several other bookish communities, I think it ought to go here as well: Lauren DeStefano is actually a very talented writer. She has the enviable ability to create beautiful sentences, and to turn those beautiful sentences into evocative and atmospheric paragraphs, even pages. Simply put:  she has a way with words.  I look forward to the day she writes something else, NOT related to this book, very much.
END OF EDIT***Sex 3/5: It was never graphic, but there was a lot of semi-discreet discussions about different positions making it more likely to conceive a baby, and mention of brothels.
The whole tone of the book is pretty bleak and gruesome, and the "virus" that magically attacks everybody on their birthday causes them to cough up blood and die quickly.
Substance Abuses 2/5: Everybody drinks, there's no legal drinking age because everybody is a "child." The sixteen year old protagonist (who never has a birthday in a year?) gets falling down drunk at least twice.
Her twenty year old husband (again, no birthday?) does the same.
As with Unwind, I prefer to see the value of the idea fulfilled than to wonder over how likely, or unlikely it is.However, Unwind’s premise was always very clearly tied to its themes and intentions which didn’t always feel as such with Withered.
I thought every character was reasonably complex and interesting – even if I would have preferred to read this story with a different type of Linden, just to see a more bold stance by the author.I think DeStefano’s strong stylistic abilities and natural story telling flare saved this for me.
Surprisingly, the worst thing for me about Wither was the boredom I experienced trying to finish it. I had previously been warned that the dystopia made little sense and didn't contain a particularly relevant message to society - unless you count trying to scare the hell out of teenage girls who may have otherwise carelessly become pregnant! But again, I'm not sure what point (if any) Lauren DeStefano was trying to make. Though that wasn't the biggest problem.Divergent had no political or socia
I expected shock tactics and obscene cruelty that would have me sat, pulse-racing, wondering what would happen to our protagonist and if she would ever get free of the marriage she was forced into.Well, I'm sorry, but like Matched it simply wasn't dramatic enough, it wasn't that bad.
But it wasn't enough to hold up the entire novel, and especially not when I have recent reads like Lips Touch: Three Times, Daughter of Smoke and Bone and The Piper's Son to compare it to.I don't understand the hype when it comes to Wither, as I usually do with other popular books that didn't do it for me.
The concept of a society in which girls are forced into polygamous marriages may not be everyone's idea of a good time, but I like art that pushes boundaries or attempts to explore unusual subjects in a meaningful way.
In order for the icky factors of child brides (one of them is only 13), kidnappings, forced marriages, fixation on impregnation, murder, medical experimentations, and so on to be successful, they needed to be overridden by solid world-building, strong characters, and emotional depth.
On the first few pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping.On the next few pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping and sleeping gas.Further, in the pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping, sleeping gas, and indentured servitude.Deeper into the pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping, sleeping gas, indentured servitude, and Polygamy.Not even reaching  of the way through the pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping, sleeping g
On the first few pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping.On the next few pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping and sleeping gas.Further, in the pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping, sleeping gas, and indentured servitude.Deeper into the pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping, sleeping gas, indentured servitude, and Polygamy.Not even reaching ¼ of the way through the pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping, sleeping gas, indentured servitude, Polygamy, and rape.Somewhere in the pages of Wither, the author revealed to me, kidnapping, sleeping gas, indentured servitude, polygamy, rape, and terminal genetic disorders.I cannot believe I was still reading this book, when the author revealed to me, kidnapping, sleeping gas, indentured servitude, polygamy, rape, terminal genetic disorders, and pregnancy.Yes, the list of social issues came to me like the “12 Days of Christmas” song.
However, this usually means she would like me to stop what I'm reading and read whichever book she's just read.
On to my review!I have found that I do enjoy a good young adult book and have really enjoyed some of the dystopian reads.
Along with two other young women, she will be married to Linden Ashby and bear his children.
Although I enjoyed this book and read it in two or three sittings there were a few things that bothered me.
However, I really liked Rhine and her relationships with her sister wives, as well as the relationship with her personal servant Deidra.
So, for a book to do that to me when I know full well I have to wake up super early with my kids, it pretty much earned those 4 stars.Let me start by saying I didn't expect to like this book as much as I did.
Can you imagine a world of human trafficking girls as young as 13 to become child brides and mothers, only to have their babies experimented on, desperately searching for a cure?
I'll be interested to see him develop further in the next book.Even though Rhine's brother, Rowen, doesn't formally make an appearance I feel like I still got a good idea of him as a character.
But either way, I’ll admit now that I’m moving on to the sequel, not because I was offered to read the ARC… well not solely, but I’m really interested to see how this story unfolds and hopefully comes together.In Wither we meet sixteen year old Rhine on the day she is kidnapped along with several other girls around her age by a groups of Gathers, whose sole purpose is to collect girls to marry them off into polygamist relationships to hopefully give the human race a chance at survival.
For such a 'scandalous' concept and for all its attempts at drama and intrigue, I found Wither to be incredibly boring.I never really felt connected to Rhine, or became invested in her story--or anyone's, for that matter.
I never felt any chemistry or was given any foundation for the supposed connection he and Rhine had.Added to that the evil genius Housemaster Vaughn who's pretty much killing everyone everywhere to find the cure to stop people from dying?
From about 30% on, Wither is just chapter after chapter of repetition, the only difference Rhine's gradual softening toward Linden...you know, the guy who was cool with his dad buying random girls--sight unseen, mind you--to be his wives/sperm vessels?
But one must wonder: aren't there better ways for the precious time you have left to be spent than living in an isolated mansion and playing house in a polygamous family?Rhine, one of three girls kidnapped and brought to become a wife to a wealthy young man, lives a lie all the while trying to come up with an escape plan that won't end up landing her back in the house and under even more scrutinizing eyes.
I thought it was going to be a book with a pretty cover, titillating premise (OMGzzz polygamy!), but with no substance.
I feel like the premise was just designed to intrigue readers, and if the story, with the prose and the characters, were under different circumstances, this book would have garnered five stars from meDon't get me started on the science of this book.
There is absolutely no basis in science for a disease that kills off people so suddenly, or so without a cause.
Statistically-speaking, men die from more diseases than women do, and generally have a lower life expectancy.
Obviously readers are required to have some "suspension of disbelief." It's kind of hard to get into a fantasy book if the reader keeps thinking "magic isn't real." The problem with Wither is while the reader is ready to buy into its premise, DeStefano finds ways to slap that suspension in the face.
The only thing more unbelievable than vaporized polar caps and yacht parties on Florida's coast is the idea that everyone on the North American continent would have had access to the genetic engineering that made the generation of people whose children die young.
You know, the first thing before you write your book is to do a lot of research on the area/subject you’re writing on and to make sure that all the rules and conventions of the world you set up are logical and plausible.
Man, when your whole book takes place in a HOUSE for the entire duration of the novel and all it revolves around is bitching about how shitty your life is and how you’re so getting out is very, very boring.
Not a lot of riveting stuff there.I know some people might love the darker aspects of the novel (polygamy, teenage pregnancy, etc) but I could really care less.
how does linden still have a father if men die at 25?
However, I wasn't able to accept the relationship between Linden and Cecily.
In fact, I wish this book had been about Rose and Linden.
As I was reading, I decided to forget that this was supposed to be science fiction.
Wither isn't as good as The Hunger Games or Across the Universe, but it's a decent read if you're looking for a heroine who isn't too stupid to live.
It's always good to get a second opinion and I admit, I'm harsh on books.
When prostitution and panhandling are such a commonplace event, they barely stir the news at all.Where girls as young as 13 are forced to bear children and numerous die in the attempt.When the newly born children are experimented on and killed.Where polygamy is an accepted way of life.
She is the girl who never stops fighting.She is married to a man she hates but finds solace within the sprawling mansion in Gabriel, an attendant.To be honest, I was expecting this to meander in Stockholm Syndrome.
I was expecting Linden's obvious adoration for her and the comfortable life to soften her up.
Lauren DeStefano is an incredibly talented writer, and her debut novel, Wither, is sure to stand out among the throngs of dystopian novels filling the shelves YA shelves, with it's unique and haunting premise and unforgettable characters.Please do judge this book by its beautiful cover, because the pages inside are just as intriguing.This is a perfect example of how I like my dystopian novels.
I know that the presence of polygamy may detour certain readers from picking up this novel, but in this world that she's created, I can't imagine that wouldn't be the norm....
However, this whole concept would have been more powerful if we chopped off the whole dystopian part of the plot and set it in modern times, and she was kidnapped and the world went on by without her, and she was trapped in this house with these people, and nobody knew.
A desperate act might have been more appropriate for a shorter time period but she is there for about a year and so I will have to agree with that point.I apologize that I seem to be tearing this to bits as I do think the books has its merits.
But as good as this prospect may sound, it comes at a terrible price: the offspring of those who partook of the scientists' panacea only live a fraction of the time people do today.With women living only to the age of twenty and men the age of twenty-five, the only way to prevent the extinction of the human race is for young women to dedicate their lives to polygamous marriages and having as many children as possible in the short window of time they have.This is exactly the kind of life sixteen-year-old Rhine Ellery wants to avoid in favor of living out her last four years with her brother, Rowan, whom she loves dearly.
Wither by Lauren DeStefano is one of those amazing ones.Sixteen-year-old Rhine is going to die in four years.
Will Rhine resign herself to a life in her mansion prison or will she fight her way out and back to her brother??Many of the dystopias coming out nowadays, sure I love them.
But I know what her smile really means…Her smile is her revenge.”Each character had their own place in the story, they were so well developed that even the minor characters left a big impression.I loved the idea of three girls living in a polygamous marriage with their husband.
I don’t think even Rhine knows how she feels with either guy.
While trying to cure cancer, society has caused the next generations to die from an unknown virus at 20 years of age for girls, 25 for guys.
I'm still genuinely looking forward to continuing the series.A big reason why I never lost interest during this slow-moving story is the easy to like characters inside this house.
I think they could grow to develop great chemistry, but since we see so little of him in Wither the passion is almost non-existent.As a big fan of dystopians, Wither does not live up to the ones I've been devouring lately, but it still has an enticing, unique premise with definite potential to become much more exciting in the books to come.
Of course we know that scientists have cured the big diseases such as cancer, std's, aids, the common cold...
Ah, I don't know.So, Rhine’s worst fears are realized when she and a few other girls are kidnapped and forced to be baby producing brides.
How likely that a governor in Florida traveled to New York to capture little Rhine?
The majority of the novel takes place in Florida, yet Rhine endures multiple snowstorms and even a blizzard.
Lots of people love this one!) Had medical mistakes been corrected, a little world building added, and the repetition taken out, this would have been such a good story.
5 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Rafael Anton Irisarri – Wither The Band Perry – If I Die Young Alyosha – To Be Free Genre: dystopia, YAStuff: extinction, weird illness, plural marriageFail: world-building, logic, romanceWOW: physiological sidePOV: 1st person, femaleLove-Geometry: hardQuote-Core:  "We ar
Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Rafael Anton Irisarri – Wither The Band Perry – If I Die Young Alyosha – To Be Free Genre: dystopia, YAStuff: extinction, weird illness, plural marriageFail: world-building, logic, romanceWOW: physiological sidePOV: 1st person, femaleLove-Geometry: hardQuote-Core: 
The author said there are some pieces of ground, but they can’t be seen from space.
Also women of this world live 'til their 20th b-day, while men die at 25 year-old.
this wouldn't have bothered me so much except the central 'horror' of this novel is the basement where people go after they die so that their bodies can be dissected and a cure searched by the 'evil' father-in-law who is evil because ...
- if her father-in-law was so evil and hell-bent on dissecting people alive or dead, why did he shoot Jennas sisters?
- how do we know the father-in-law is evil, he has a scarey voice, he has old 'papery skin', and he makes people feel uncomfortable.
