https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6361008-the-human-place-in-the-cosmos
It's the first time I read Scheler.
It was painfully difficult, I'm not that familiar with philosophic anthropology, but I want to.Well, he tries to explain the little detail that is the essence of man, his relationship with animals and plants, and his metaphysical origin and place.
He explains the main difference between a man and an animal, rejecting both doctrines of a same theory.
Man is the being who can say "no", the ascetic of life, unlike the animal that always says "yes" to reality, no matter what.
It was a complex read that left me with more questions than certainties.July 24, 13* Also on my blog.
"İnceliği ve narinliği içinde güzel olan şey kısa sürer ve seyrektir." (s.94)
Some kind of recapitulation of Hegel and Marx. Balancing idealism and materialism.

Scheler's develops his own answers to these questions which begin with inorganic matter and work up through plants and animals to determine what human beings share with other forms of things and how they differ.
He then approaches his questions from the other direction, so to speak, to try to understand the role of human beings in what he terms the cosmos.The crux of the book is in the development of what Scheler calls spirit.
The development of spirit is what human beings ultimately share with the cosmos and with large reality.
Pure philosophical text about existential problems and life of humanity. Not so hard to read, somewhere between Schopenhauer and Fromm.
Interesante, algo intrinacdo por momentos Un enfoque exitencialista y fenomenológico del ser humano. El espíritu confluye en el mismo punto en que Freud habla de "sublimación".
66 tiivistä sivua muun muassa ihmisen ja jumalan synnystä. On nautinto lukea rationaalista ja jäsenneltyä, mutta silti rohkeaa ja "korkeaa" filosofiaa.
In brief: 'Tis a shame that Scheler died before he could complete this work and follow it up further, even if I would criticize it at some crucial points (esp.
theology).Not only does he, in his own way, challenge the Cartesian foundation of modern(ist) philosophy, but this work in particular has a special sense of negotiating between the two new preceding 'movements' in philosophy: the 'masters of suspicion' (i.e. Marx, Nietzsche, Freud) and Husserl's phenomenology.
We would do well in pursuing, as he did, a full 'concept of man' and a better synthesis for modern thought.

Ieteiktu šo grāmatu izlasīt fanātiskiem reliģijas piekritējiem. Nekur iepriekš neesmu lasījusi tik viegli uztveramu un pamatoti izskaidrotu viedokli par to- kādēļ cilvēks-mīļais ir izdomājis sev Dievus un Jēzuliņu. Šo grāmatu gan nevajadzētu lasīt tā uzreiz- "uz galvas dziļumā". Jābūt kaut nelielai sagatavotībai, jo ir ļoti specifiska terminoloģija un jēdzieni.
Excellent essay by Scheler. A new translation is coming out soon by Manfred Frings (Northwestern U Press). Should become the standard.
everyone considering reading this, save yourself a lot of trouble and read Arnold Gehlen's Der Mensch in which he not only roasts Schelers definition of the human in a few passages but furthermore, explains his own definition in a more accessible text
