https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/134037.Picnic
Probably the most "American" play I've ever read. The small town, the proper way to act, the outsider who is despicable yet irresistible: it's all here. Makes you feel so nostalgic you'll hum Souza, even though Inge is pointing out how deluded our perfect American dream lives really are.
If Tennessee Williams and Flannery O'Connor had a love child, it'd be this play. Streetcar meets Temple of the Holy Ghost.
good dynamics between all the romantic relationships, as well as the familial aspect of Flo wanting to protect her children. decent writing, somewhat interesting plot. it'll be quite an experience to play Flo in a reader's theatre production at school
End of summer, the weekend before new school year and a fresh romance in the making.
Inge's play starts with an idyllic morning set in the shared backyard of two middle class houses that is about to be disrupted by the arrival of a young man - Hal. The seemingly perfect relationships are tested and exposed with Hal's bragging nature and inability to stick to a job.
Inge's play is anything but romanticized; it in fact explores the complicated relationship the women in the play, share.
Inge explores passion, desperation, sisters envy, jealousy and the spark that is summer romance that changes everything.
I had the pleasure of not only reading this play multiple times this year, but also performing it for exam plays at my school this year. This is a play full of vibrant life exposed by the beautiful use of the English language by William Inge.
Although there are still elements that could be construed as disturbing in the right light, really this seems like a much more "wholesome" play about young love and mistakes and less about predators and prey.As a read, it's fine; quick, interesting, well-developed characters.
The most important actions of the two days over which the play is set happens almost entirely off-stage leaving the reader with the pre- and post- events which makes for a stunning way to develop characters in a very short amount of time and to keep the reader engaged as they work to figure out what EXACTLY happened.
The play responsible for me quitting my job as a stage manager in college. Pointless, and completely irrelevant trash. No real expression of anything, just characters rambling on about nothing. Always hate when people jump on the bandwagon of some piece of "art" and say it's great because they've been conditioned to say it's great by other so-called experts. Then, without really analyzing it for themselves, they say it's great too and think they've become individual and thus superior to the rest of the people who haven't wasted their time with it.
I’ve been meaning to read this play for so long and I’m so glad that I finally got around to it. It was a lovely, small town American play that I enjoyed reading. It took me less than two hours to read so it was a nice, quick read too. I wish I could see this on stage. I wish I’d seen the New York version starring Sebastian Stan too.
Southern, dramatic, fantastic, holy.
5 stars- Ms. Jenn
Easily the worst play I've ever read. This won a Pulitzer Prize for what - most asinine dialogue ever written?
A classic; my forever favorite play.
I would write you a review of this play, but instead I wrote a thesis on it. And I'm almost certain that no one on Goodreads wants to read that here.
William Inge is a Pulitzer Prize winning playwright and novelist.
He won his Pulitzer for this 3-act play.
He is able to relate and empathize with women because he grew up surrounded by women.
Picnic is a coming of age story for young adults and focuses on the fears and struggles of middle aged single women.
The 1950s was a time when women were expected to have husbands and families.
This is considered domestic realism in a time when everyone wanted the American dream--the perfect house, husband, and family.
To be feminine, women were expected to not work, clean house, cook, and take care of children.
I had to look at the email twice to see that they really want me to audition for the 16-year-old younger, uglier, smarter sister, Millie.
I guess I did just play a 16-year-old murderer...
I was surprised how much I liked this play.
Which was fine.There's this totally odd scene in the book where people take, I kid you not, like one sip of alcohol and then start acting like they've snorted a few lines of cocaine.
It's weird seeing alcohol be the big bad Drug and have that heightened effect.
I don't know, I just kept smiling quietly to myself while reading this whole play.
This play would be so fun to direct! Nuanced female roles. Maybe I enjoyed reading it so much because it explores themes I'm currently pondering.... like the nature of beauty, what it gets you and where it leaves you. My only criticism is, sometimes the characters' motivations seem quixotic. I mean, really, would any woman marry a man who said to her, after she asks him, “Well—you got to give me time to think it over.” !! I guess that's desperation for you. Anyway, this is such a very insightful play and I loved it.
This is our high school's fall play, so I thought I'd read the text, having previously seen the movie starring William Holden, Kim Novak, and Rosalind Russell. I couldn't imagine teens would grasp the longing and sexual tension of the characters Hal, Madge, and Rosemary, so I thought I'd see if the play was different from the movie--nope! Am I looking forward to this performance? Hesitantly, yes. We have excellent student actors and a brand new drama teacher, so this has potential to be excellent.
Although I found some nice topics in the drama (society repressing sexuality, strict rules of behaviour, all of it mostly being fake, of course, and thus creating unfulfilled lives), I didn't find the dialogues deep enough to dig into the characters and their relations in a more interesting way, although there was a lot of potential...And also I couldn't believe some of their actions (Howard marrying Rosemary after what happened the night before, Madge's departure etc...) - I felt like Inge wanted to write a drama about killing a fairy tale, but then decided to create one instead...
I love this. If only for Rosemary's scenes and the different approaches to marriage the whole way through. I don't know why I'm inclined to think Alan is secretly a jerk... I think it's because I really don't think the two should have been together so I'm just on Madge's side. Who knows. I'd love to break this deceptively simple play down sometime. Fantastic woman personalities. We never go to the picnic.
I like the characterization and the evolution of the plot, but the plot itself seems dated to me. I enjoy it from a historical perspective, (i.e. the time the action was set in, '50s), and the dialogue and character relationships are engaging. 7 Women, 4 Men.
Can't figure out WHY this is back on Broadway right now ( closing soon). It costs SO much to produce a Broadway play. This time piece simply doesn't resonate with me or this age. What am I missing about this?
Not much happens, as in most plays, but the characters' lives are definitely touched by that nothingness and their inability to do anything about it. It seems to me that they're mostly "about" to do something. I do love the beauty of the play's imagery, though.
One of my favorite plays -- definitely top of Inge's work for me. The characters and their histories are soft, unspoken, yet so rich and full. I love the work available for actors, and I love the sweet, simple storyline of a stranger coming to town and sending everyone in new directions.
It's a very cute and easy to read story. I finished it within a day (about 3 hours because I had to take notes of it for my project). There are only a few characters and the scene does not really move around.
I love loved this play!
3.5
Interesting play, thought the movie was good too despite the differnce in mood.
Sometimes I wonder how things win the Pulitzer. It's not bad, it's just not as good as I'd hoped a Pulitzer Winner would be.
Surprisingly dated, perhaps significantly in that it deals with the position of women in the '50s. Have never seen the movie -- must do so.
Quaint is how I would describe Picnic. The characters seem silly and like old stereotypes and the plot fails to really satisfy. Unlike other plays from this period, Picnic no longer holds up.
