https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13829.Terrier
Tamora Pierce's Beka Cooper series, Book One: Terrier.
Her main characters always have some kind of fatal flaw - in Beka's case it's fear of public speaking and chronic shyness, for Alana it was cold and spiders, for Kel it was heights, and so forth.
In Beka's case it's a problem of people disappearing, and since these people are her people (the poor and destitute) she undertakes their protection.I like Pierce best when she's writing YA with a warrior girl main character.
But with Beka we're back to my favorite kind of read.
Tammy writes the diary style well, giving a valid reason for it to be so detailed (to aid Beka’s Dog reports and memory retention) yet still retaining the realism of a diary (days when you skip writing, longer writings some days and less on others, and days where you play catch-up and fill in the events of several days).- Thirdly: it is set 200 years before any of the other Tortall stories have taken place, which allows for a certain freedom of expression, more than in other recent Tortall books.
I love the language and some of it has fallen into my everyday vocab (sarden), while other words were already there (poxy)!The detective/mystery feel to the book also provide a new frame work for Tammy’s writing.
It just does not really read like a diary so the whole that is what it is annoyed me since I didn't buy it.
WAY too much details that bored me to death.4) The main character is supposed to be soooo shy.
Then why don't you act shy 90% of the time?
I buy that you are soooo shy when you do not act like it.
I mean if you are going to keep shoving something in my face at least make your character actually act that way.
But so far that’s where the good ends in this series as I couldn’t really connect with the other characters and found the whole plot tediously slow and boring.This book was supposed to be about the mystery of who was stealing the missing children and killing them and that sounds real exciting doesn’t it?
So on the whole I would say this book would need more action and just a more exciting faster pacing where you don’t know what’s around the corner and you’re always in suspense…This just had so much potential to be thrilling and dark with plenty of twists and turns, heck even when we do find out who is killing all the children it isn’t that much of a shock just like eh okay then….
I love stories about the Tortall Realm.
Cross my heart.
Hope to die.
Stick a needle in my eye (You know, I never knew the reason why kids on our country say these things when they want to convince people they're telling the truth.This sounds painful.Maybe that explains the phrase,  the truth hurts?
por favor .
This book almost bored me to death.
The only reason why I finished this one was because I have a high respect for  Pounce .
I think it tells a great deal about a book when the only interesting character is the main heroine's cat.
I don't know if all of the books are written in this same format, but the jumping around with constant referral to terms and things that had no explanation to a new reader were really annoying and made it not a very enjoyable read.
This book was also written for a fairly young audience on the young adult spectrum so I really never got connected to any of the characters.
With that being said it wasn't a BAD book, just probably better to start after you already know the universe.
Another one of those books I would probably love if I read it when I was younger
Beka's "voice" is stilted and matter-of-fact, which made it read like low-grade YA fantasy from a debut writer instead of a novel written by an accomplished and interesting writer whom I otherwise very much enjoy.
DITCH THE JOURNAL AS A DEVICE, ASPIRING WRITERS!!I did like many aspects of the book, but due to the writing it never really sang to me.
The plot was fine (if you've ever read an Agatha Christie novel, you know the murderer is (view spoiler)[the otherwise demure old lady who's taken a turn to evil (hide spoiler)]), the characters were fine (I liked the inclusion of a lady knight), and the relationships, such as they were, were fine (never very deep).
What is one word I can use to sum up the book hmm...
Seriously there isn't a lot of books that can do that (at least for me).
Beka Cooper is the most kick butt, cool heroine I've encountered in all my reading days.The book was just as good the second time around.
At first I was wary of reading it again thinking it might not be as enjoyable this time around.
I love Tortall so damn much.
I love it too much!Beka was unique because of her shyness!
Usually Pierce's characters are these kick-ass, take charge type of heroines and Beka is definitely bad ass, but talking to authority figures?
Besides Beka, the star of this book was totally Pounce!
I fucking love this cat so damn much!
He's such a good cat.
(hide spoiler)]I loved the mystery of this and learning about the law enforcement system that is the Dogs.
I think Beka is going to bring a lot of good change to the Dogs and I cannot wait.
But the Rogue, the one master thief that is supposed to look out for the common folk, is unwilling to do anything about it and the Guard is spread thin as it is.They should thank their Gods that Rebakah "Beka" Cooper is one stubborn Puppy.
They do their jobs and that gives them plenty of work, looking out for them that fill the Happy Bags.
I never realized how much I had missed this kind of main character until I started following Beka.
And it has people with common sense!
You wouldn't believe how hard it is to find that kind of character lately.
I loved this book, kind of a combination police procedural/high fantasy. Set in the Tortall world, with a light touch of magic. I read while I work out and this is the first book in a long time that made me forget where I was and what I was doing and wish the workout session could go on longer...
I really enjoy this authors writing style and the empowered way she portrays women and young people.
She has a small magic, and a huge determination to help people who grew up in the same life she led.
I liked the jargon introduced, and the world color.The book makes a bold choice in the use of narration through journals, and honestly I don't think that helped the story.
Not my favorite, and I know Tamora can write better mysteries.Also, the tone was strange.
When all of them are on the same case, they participate in a Growl, and all of them, well, growl, and this is a community thing that is supposed to be a big deal.So it should be a kid's book, right?
Just when I thought there wasn't much more to be done in Tortall, I heard about this book's release.
After one installment, Beka is well on her way to being one of my favorites of Tammy's characters (although I highly doubt I could pick a favorite of her leading ladies, they all kick ass so hard and it's fantastic).
I wasn't sure what to expect when it came to the main character being a rookie cop, but the whole story was so well-written and I loved every bit of it.
I was greatly surprised that the kindly grandmother was the child killer!
-.- I enjoyed learning about Beka and I'm sad how her sisters treat her now that she's a dog.
They should be grateful instead of the little bitches they are acting like!Extra Details:I'm always surprised at how different the police work from that 'time period' is and today's cops.
I was very sad that Verene died.
I was also happy that Rosto killed the old King of the Rogue and I know he is going to be much better!
They both really surprised me and disgusted me.
The story is good, but something about the narration is slowing me down, perhaps because it's in the form of a diary, and that seems cumbersome.
The journal of the protagonist.I had no idea who these people were until I just went back to dig through it, and it just made the start of the novel feel disjointed, like I was lost before I even started.
Breaking up the narration by day, sometimes several times in one day, also feels disjointed.
Terrier is just another example of how great an author Tamora Pierce is.
The writing is very detailed and although it is hard to believe that a girl would be so diligent in writing a journal it didn't really faze me.
Beka is a great kick-butt, female protangonist.
She is smart, caring, dedicated, and tough.
It's because of this why Beka is called a Terrier.
The imagination of Pierce proves to be limitles as she decribes Tortall.
I really look forward to reading the second book of this series and see what happens to Beka next.
THE. MOST. BORING. BOOK. I. HAVE. EVER. TRIED. TO. READ.^^If don't understand that sentence ^^, 'I'D RATHER WATCH PAINT DRY' Do not get out this book unless you are looking for torture. The chapters are a million pages long, and most of which are boring. I reckon I got up to about page 30 and then I had to stop, for the story was doing my head in. Whoever told me that was a good book, don't tell me anymore, cuz' obviously your eyes have incinerated and all that's left is the eye socket. SERIOUSL
THE. MOST. BORING. BOOK. I. HAVE. EVER. TRIED. TO. READ.^^If don't understand that sentence ^^, 'I'D RATHER WATCH PAINT DRY'
  Do not get out this book unless you are looking for torture. The chapters are a million pages long, and most of which are boring. I reckon I got up to about page 30 and then I had to stop, for the story was doing my head in. Whoever told me that was a good book, don't tell me anymore, cuz' obviously your eyes have incinerated and all that's left is the eye socket. SERIOUSLY, DO NOT GET THIS BOOK!!!!
This book.... this book. I have fallen in love with Tortall all over again. There is so much nostalgia here and so much new content. Beka Cooper is such a flawed and wonderful character that is strong in some areas and weak in others. Plus the world structure, magic system, and religious orders are always so well developed. There is just so much here.Video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_3Ijb...
I don't get why people like it, it's horrible. It's a diary written by what seems to be a twelve year old. I mean, come on."My peaches are well enough. Doubtless they would be larger if I put on more pounds, but as I have no sweetheart and am not wishful of one for now, my peaches are fine as they are."Somebody kill me now. I need to bleach my eyeballs after this.
Oh. My. GOD! I LOVED LOVED LOVED this book!!!!!!!! I was all aflail and I got SO into it that I was even yelling at the book last night! Pounce is totally my favorite character. He is so full of sass, I love it! I wish I had my own Breakfast Club!

From the day forward Beka wants nothing more than to be a Dog, she joins as soon as she is able and her story starts from there.I love the world Tamora Pierce has created.
I'm hoping the next book the trilogy builds from this one and we see more of the interactions between all of the different characters since that is what I loved most about this book.(view spoiler)[ Even though I know Rosto is on the other side of the law from Beka, I really think they would be awesome together.
I found the Alanna quartet poorly written, enjoyed The Immortals, absolutely adored Protector of the Small ( so much so that Kel is now one of my favorite fictional characters ever), liked the Trickster's duo but also found it extremely problematic in certain respects.
And then I moved onto Terrier which I'm sorry to say is my least favorite Pierce book that I've read so far.
In Terrier, however, everything feels derivative of what came before - Beka's personality is basically the same as Kel's, except with much less humor and more shyness, her animal sidekick is literally the same as Alanna's, etc.
But I might skip the rest of the prequel trilogy and skip to the Alanna books which I've only read once about 8 years ago.3rd Read: 5/22/20152nd Read: 2/1/2012Original Read: 2/3/2011Previous Review:Naughty Naughty Michelle, here I go to update my review of a previously read book only to find that I never reviewed it!I am a big fan of Tamora Pierce, I love that she writes about strong female characters, and I love how her stories are NOT focused on romance and sex.
(though they may contain them).I originally read this book several years back along with it's sequel, and am now rereading both of them as the third book in the series has been released.From the Book description: Beka Cooper is a rookie with the law-enforcing Provost's Guard, and she's been assigned to the Lower City.
Tamora Pierce likes to write books in couplets or quartets, so you get to explore her magical worlds through different narrators and across time.
"Terrier" is her latest in a long line of books about the Tortall kingdom (though it's the first chronologically): detailing the life of a common girl who wants to protect the slums she grew up in from exploitation and evil-doing.
The book offers a frank look at the complexity of urban law enforcement.
Which one governs better?It's also a good old-fashioned detective story, for those of you interested in that genre.
Look for more good stuff about Beka.
Another installment in the mythology of Tamora Pierce's fictional land of Tortall and I am not disappointed.
By telling an ancient legend of an ancestor the stories remain alive and Tortall's characters expand.I greatly admire that each time Pierce takes on a new saga in Tortall, she challenges herself to make a new strong heroine in a different position in society which even sometimes allows her to add tastes of different genres within a fantasy piece.
Terrier in particular gives both the fantasy and crime novel a chance to play together.
I can't wait to read the next installment!
I don't know what it is about Tamora Pierce but when I get into Tortall I don't ever want to leave. My office building has a lot of pigeons around it and that added something extra to reading Terrier I think. I stopped reading this book on Friday and spent the whole weekend wishing I'd brought it home with me to read! I also really need a cat like Pounce to boss me around and tell me what to do :)
Maybe I should upgrade to 5 stars after re-reading? The only drawback is that it drags a itsy-bitsy, tiny bit in the last third of the story. Otherwise it's perfect and almost is more fun, when you already know how the story arc and the main character develop in volume 2 and 3.
Set before all the other Tortall tales, this is the story of George's ancestor, Beka Cooper.
This is the early days of Tortall so it'll be a darker, less recognizable place.
Crime is rampant, and Beka, though she's had a very hard life, joins the 'Dogs'.
The Dogs are a group of guards tasked with fighting crime in the city.
As a puppy, Beka will train alongside the most talented guards.Beka wants to help the people in the poorer areas.
I like that this was a bit of a darker Tortall, with slavery and crime everywhere.
