https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37743.Forever_
A word of warning: This review will be conducted from a soapbox (which, if you think about it, is a completely baffling expression).  As one would expect from a young feminist gynecologist, of course.Let's cut to the chase: This book is about a realistically intense relationship between Kath and Michael, two teenagers in the 1970s. They meet, fall in love with a speed only teens are capable of, he wants to sleep with her, she is reluctant, eventually they do it, they are both into it, she (respo
I wanted to present another kind of story—one in which two seniors in high school fall in love, decide together to have sex, and act responsibly." And guess what - there are many conversations about sex with the blissful conviction of that time that sexual repression and double standards and the battles over birth control and abortion are finally over and common sense prevails.
There are so many people warring against birth control and abortion because there should be 'consequences' to daring to have sex!
I did not enjoy reading it at all and it annoyed the bajeezus out of me, and nothing will change that.3) Guys might go around naming their underparts but I'm always going to think that's disgusting.4) I HATE ELLIPSES AND ANY BOOK THAT HAS FIFTEEN ELLIPSES PER PAGE WILL AUTOMATICALLY CARVE IT'S PLACE IN MY HATED-THIS-BOOK LIST.*takes deep breath* Okay, yeah, that's it.Okay, yeah, so maybe I should explain the 1 star—if you’ve been following my reviews, you’ll know that I rarely give books a 1 star rating…I’m not that hard to please as a reader, and I hate giving one of Judy Blume’s books 1 star (I used to love her MG books as kid, from what I can recall anyway).
You may as well proceed with her wonderful one-line review if you want to avoid the rant-y one coming your way.^^ But before the rant, let me just greet my sweet friend, A HAPPY BIRTHDAY.I hope you’re having the best time and even though I didn’t like this novel, again, it’s the thought that I read a book for you that counts, right?
they have sex. it does not last forever.at the end, she is a bitch.
I recently read Everything I Need to Know About Being a Girl I learned from Judy Blume but I guess I was more of a Beverly Cleary kid.This book is about first loves and first sexual experiences.
The story itself was good, but I think Judy Blume left out a lot of details.
Kath is a girl who seems to devote her life to her boyfriend and put him above everything else.
But I think poor Sybil only got mentioned in a few paragraphs.The lesson for any young girl here: If you date a guy who calls his manhood Ralph, run in the opposite direction.
Yes, there are sex scenes and sexual information in this story that appeared in the dark ages of 1975 that caused many a teen girl to reach out her hand in quiet desperation, and there's a bit of an education to be gained here for the average adolescent.But, good God, this was boring.
And, the book's not only boring; it contained zero character development, zero plot points of interest and dialogue that sounded like it was being read by the characters from a teleprompter.This entire book reads like a pamphlet from Parent Parenthood rather than a story.
Michael too feels he and Kath are meant to be, so they flounder along in their romance, discovering each others' bodies and holding onto their assertions that they will prove everyone wrong and stand the test of time.
If I started making out with a guy, let him up my shirt and down my pants, even going so far as to play with "Ralph" (we'll get to that in a moment), then pulled away (not for the first time) to utter (again) how I wasn't ready....I would not only expect some whining, I'd expect a guy to be a little angry.
Judy Blume has always excelled at writing about issues that are relevant to teens.
Here she takes the reader into that first real relationship, that first love, and that first sexual experience.While some say there is no plot or character development in this novel, I find that to be Blume’s point; she perfectly illustrates the shallowness of most teen relationships.
I enjoyed re-reading this classic from my teen years.
Would today’s teens find relevance in the story?
There are a few dated references, but I think teens (especially females) would enjoy reading this tale of first love.
I don't necessarily want to read a book that waits until marriage for the sexual relationship to begin.
And even when you think they're getting emotionally intimate,Kath changes her mind purely because she meets another guy while she's away at summer camp.
There was nothing about Michael they didn't like except that maybe he and Kath were sexually active.
She'll just find another guy.Oh and look - Kath does.Maybe it just wasn't for me because I'm in my mid-twenties, but by my judgement I think it'd be a wonderful novel for a young teenager beginning to explore relationships and sexuality.
I consider this book to be an education, therefore the first thing I was impressed with, with my edition being from 2005, was the author's entry at the beginning covering the absolutely essential updated requirements for safe and healthy sexual responsibility.
This was an easy read, a nice coming of age story, set in the mid seventies.
Our protagonist, Katherine was a very sensible 17 year old, whom I think had it quite easy as she did not fall too hard!
I took this off their shelf for a change of reading material, and it was an excellent book.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Okay, this one DID. NOT. stand the test of time. Released in 1975, Forever … topped the Banned Books charts due to its direct approach to teenagers having sexual relationships. Sadly it did not weather well. From the abuse of ellipses (and coming from me you KNOW there were a lot, because I myself am a fan), to the terrible writing, to the leading male that would have modern-day girls declaring #metoo, to the girl who wanted “forever”
Released in 1975, Forever … topped the Banned Books charts due to its direct approach to teenagers having sexual relationships.
Once upon a time this was a coveted little book that many of us weren’t allowed to read – much like Flowers in the Attic.
Back in the day Young Kelly might have found this super smexy.
Old Kelly did not and will just go back to what she’s good at .
Even though I failed at Forever …, this remains my favorite reading week of the entire year .
I think I actually made it about half way through the book and just didn't feel like it was something I should be reading (having a strong religious background encouraging waiting until marriage to enjoy sex).
If my daughter was older and wanted to read it, I would explain to her that I don't think it's a book that would help her make the difficult choice to save herself for that one special person in her future who would hopefully also be saving sexual intimacy for her only.My rating is heavily influenced by my religious beliefs as a Christian, and member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
I can't really blame her too much for writing a book 30 years ago and it not feeling up to date now.5 stars for the author telling a realistic story about a girl's first time with both falling in love and having sex.
Not every experience is hearts and flowers, and the realism in this book was spot on.I would recommend this book to any young girl who really wants to know what might happen their first time.
So many books are a fun fantasy, which are fine for an escape, but this one is closer to the truth - at least for the first time.
Weird, huh?The lack of the aforementioned qualities is what really drove this book into 1 star territory for me, but there were a few...
RalphMichael, the boyfriend of the story, is considerate enough to name his penis Ralph, thus ensuring that the girl (whoops, forgot her name already; this is what happens when characters lack personality) won't be frightened by it.
The worst part was when they were doing the whole long-distance thing, and Michael wrote her a letter and was all:I love you and miss you.Forever,MichaelP.S. Ralph misses you too.Farewell, I'm going to run away and try to forget this book now.
4 stars to Judy Blume for her fantastic portrayal of teen sexuality and relationships! It's a bit dated, yes - very 70s - but I actually loved the nostalgic vibe. It reminded me a lot of  The Perks of Being a Wallflower.  And to be honest, the characters in this book are the most realistic teens I've read about in YA fiction in a long time. I would have loved to get my hands on this book when I was younger. Alas, I didn't know it existed. In  Forever...  soon-to-be highschool graduates Katherine
I think the reader was supposed to feel uncomfortable, maybe in the hopes that they would be rooting for Katherine to stand her ground, which she does, and when she finally does have sex, she's happy with her decision.Something else a lot of people have pointed out is that the sex is gross.
It's important that we teach young people that first times (and second and third times) are awkward and there shouldn't be pressure for it to be "perfect." If you ask me, a lot of this pressure comes from the idea that you're supposed to be in love with someone.
A rather lackluster narrative of a teen relationship, Forever is still noteworthy for a couple of reasons: 1. It's the first-written ya book I know of where the kids fall in love, make a responsible decision to have sex and neither is killed, maimed, impregnated or emotionally scarred for life. 2. Blume depicts two teens who fall in love with one another, have a fulfilling (if somewhat blah) relationship, and fall out of love. There's no patronizing insinuation that teens are too young to be in love, and no insistence that love is always forever.
This book is about young love, something that all teens can relate to.
Teens deal with the curiosty of sex all the time, and they are afraid to say how and what they feel about it.
I feel she knows how to address the topics or issues in which teens deal with.
I feel that teens need to read things that they can relate to because it lets them see that they aren't alone in the world, and they don't have to be afraid of what they think and feel.
Things have changed alot from back then, there are brand new issues everyday with teens.
The silly and yes, majorly and utterly frustrating part about all these so-called do-gooders who wanted to and still often continue to want to ban and/or censor Forever, is that their rantings somehow made (and continue to make) the novel appear as though it was (it is) some pornographic trash, when it is, in fact, for the most part a tender and compassionate love story about teenage relationships, feelings, school, choices (puberty and all the ups and downs this can easily cause for both girls and boys).After perusing a number of comments from individuals and special interests groups desiring to universally and categorically ban and censor Forever (many of these comments unfortunately being nothing but rather offensive and braying tirades) one of the main points of contention on which the latter always seem to harp, is usually the possibility (and for them actually the absolute probability) that the sexuality, the sexual relationship between Katherine and Michael could (and generally would) entice especially female teenage readers into similar such relationships.
It's one that has eluded my collection for years and once I finally found it, read it quickly but was left disappointed.Blume is usually pro at weaving realistic situations, writing emotional depth convincingly, and propelling average stories forever with oomph, but here it all fell short.
This did fill that purpose then, even if I still think the writing was lackluster and didn't enjoy the characterization/events.Love was supposed to be the driving factor, but the relationship seemed stale, forced, and not realistic to how seventeen year olds feel.
So, an important book for its time and while the theme hasn't diminished, I don't think the writing was stellar nor the protagonist realistic.
I guess I didn't like it for two main reasons.
I felt more toward Theo in the ten or so pages devoted to him than I did for whats-his-name (I literally can't remember even though I read it yesterday, so I guess that helps prove my point) who starred in the entire book.
Secondly, it was predictable.
I mean really, really predictable.
But, as it was terribly obvious they would not and that her parents would be right/there would be some teary breakup scene, I felt more like "well, yeah" than "oh no!
5 Words: Sex, sex, sex, sex, sex.Seriously, that's all this book seemed to be about. Sex. I've read New Adult with much less sex and we all know what that genre can be like.I didn't connect with the characters, I couldn't really relate to them much. I think it had to do with how sex-obsessed they were.I don't feel I can write a full review for this, it didn't really leave me feeling anything at all. All I really did while reading it was roll my eyes.
I know I’m not alone when I credit her for keeping reading interesting at nine years old.
Of course the book I’m referring to is Forever, a story of first love and consequently, teenage sex.
Now I may be old fashioned, but I certainly don’t want my thirteen year old reading a manual on how to give it up to her teenage boyfriend because she thinks she’s in love.
Although, my thirteen year old won’t have that opportunity, I’m sure there are plenty out there that will, and I think this story is far too laissez-faire with its message.
This book was recommended to me and therefore I was very surprised that it wasn't very good.
I don't care about the explicit nature of it.
In fact, sex scenes were the only ones that kept me remotely interested in the story.
Book just wasn't written that well.
Language was overly simplistic, there was no depth to the story.
Even at 17 there is more to a teenager's emotions than: I like the guy, he is nice, I want to have sex with him, I love him, etc.
There was nothing to it, no love, no infatuation, just sex.
This post is part of the 2015 Classics Challenge.WHEN I Discovered This ClassicI first read Judy Blume's  Summer Sisters  in late 2013 and, after falling in love with it, I bought her earlier novels for pre-teens and teenagers,  Are You There God? It's Me Margaret  and Forever.WHY I Chose to Read It I wanted to delve into another Judy Blume because it had been nearly a year since I read Margaret. She was also visiting the country the same month, as part of her tour to promote her latest adult no
In the late 90s and early 2000s, even though the term 'young adult' was new, I was lucky to grow up with a lot of books aimed at older children and teenagers, but I can see why Forever was ground-breaking for a lot of people.Forever was a book that talked about falling in love, having sex for the first time and experiencing heartbreak in a way that teenagers in the 60s-80s had never known – and it still remains significant to people who read it as young teenagers.
What I learned: If you are going to have sex, use birth control.
I remember this one with fondness because there were about three copies going around when I was in 7th grade.
We read it, passed in on to the next girl, who in turn passed it on.
Every 12-13 year old girl in my class read it sometime that year and it was something we all had in common.
We were all desperately curious about it and wanted to learn something, anything, about why you might want to have sex, what it would be like, could you 'do it' and still be a good person?
Forever was considered quite the shocker in it's day and I'd say it's still fairly graphic for a YA book, but teenagers sex lives aren't quite the taboo subject that it was once upon a time.Kath meets Michael and feels an almost immediate connection with him, leading within several weeks to their first time together which is more that a bit of a disappointment for her.
She simply moves on to the next guy with barely a backward glance.Michael seems more angry or heartbroken, depending on how you look at it, but I still liked him more that her.The other characters and friends, were able to give some glimpses into what happens to teenagers who aren't careful(pregnancy), who are confused about their sexual orientation, or want sex just to say they've done it.
Category is: Re-read review extravaganzaJulie and I have done a few trashy buddy reads now, and thus far the results have been grim (*cough cough* Flowers in the Attic, *throws up in mouth a little* Fear of Flying.) This book (which is NOT trashy; sorry to drag you into our degeneracy, Judy) more or less held up though. Rather than recycle my original review below, here are some random, additional thoughts:• I was surprised at how affecting I still found this story despite dialogue like this:As
Reading this book demystifies the experience and lets girls know they can go to PP without having their parents called, being slut shamed, or getting their eggs stolen and sold to Scrambler Marie's, or whatever the right wing conspiracy theory du jour is now.•	In my adult perspective, I can't tell if Michael is written as a teenage boy who can't express himself yet, or Katherine is just a lot smarter than he is.
Their relationship has sweet moments, but reading it at 49 versus 16 I completely understand why her parents thought it wouldn't last.I feel like this may kick off a Judy Blume re-reading binge.
They planned a summer camp for her so she wouldn’t be able to get in touch with him.
She forced herself to let the moment with Theo out of her mind, but it wouldn’t.
Suddenly, one day at camp, Michael came to her to visit her because he missed her so much.
I liked the way Judy Blume wrote a book to girls to teach them about safe sex.
Judy Blume wrote the book so the reader could know what every girl might think about when it comes to relationship and having sex with your partner.
"No 'Forever' by Judy Blume!"The county's mobile library came to my middle school and some kids were invited to choose books to supplement the stock at our own library.
The English teacher, who had quite a froggy voice, stood at the door saying "No 'Forever' by Judy Blume!"Looking back, why didn't she just find it for herself and hide it somewhere?Gemma had her own copy and all the cool kids borrowed it.
The mum rang Gemma's parents to register her disapproval.It's like a scene from a Judy Blume story, isn't it?Not being cool, I didn't get to read it until just now.
Ok, so for ages I had heard there was a Judy Blume book in which a boy has a penis called Ralph, but I didn't know the title.
After never stumbling across it, I sorta forget and considered it an urban legend or something - until one glorious day.
I picked up Forever at an op shop in Orewa, and was reading it on the bus home when I read "Katherine, I'd like you to meet someone.
This is Ralph", or whatever the line is.
I was so excited I gasped and tore the book in half (the spine was really brittle)!I wish I had found it when I was 12.
