https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144069.After_Leaving_Mr_Mackenzie
"It was the darkness that got you.
There was so much despair in this book and it was easy to spot the feminist threads.
Reliance on men,and fears of getting older and so on all make her think, "My life's like death.
It's like being buried alive.
It isn't fair, it isn't fair." There always seems to be a feeling of impending doom in the book.
This is a book of broken dreams, of disappointments, of unfairness, where the value of a woman is apparently on the decline after age 30.
But it was a great book that had me transfixed enough to read in one sitting.
There she goes a little heartache; there she goes a little pain. Make no mistake, she sheds her skin like a snake, gonna walk the plank again... I cannot stop reading Jean Rhys. This might not be such a wise decision as Ms. Rhys tends to wallow in her darkness a bit more than most, but what can I say? She speaks my language.Shhhhhhhh.... Listen closely. Jean has something she'd like to say. That's what this book feels like: it feels like Jean and I are sitting in some dark French cafe and she's
(Of course she's speaking all of this through the thoughts of Julia, but I don't buy this "Julia" business for a second.)Jean Rhys once said, "If I could choose I would rather be happy than write ...
"It was curious to speculate about the life of a woman like that and to wonder what she appeared to herself to be - when she looked in the glass for instance.
Because of course, she must have some pathetic illusions about herself or she would not be able to go on living." It's obvious to me that Jean Rhys, once a beautiful woman......
I am afraid of what my dark inkling stains for After Leaving Mr. Mackenzie coming true in the fourth book of my "The Complete Novels" Jean Rhys book (Good Morning, Midnight is next).
Indeed, from what I know of Jean Rhys I have been feeling around with words on my tongue (well, fingertips.
A knee jerk reaction you can't stop yourself from making, almost as if it isn't their own thought but what Rhys (or Julia herself) would be most afraid of facing when she wanted or needed something from them.
But I do know about what I suspect and I feel like my suspicions have been pretty right on.
Κανείς δεν ήξερε τί συνέβη κι εγώ έκανα στροφή – σιχτιρίζοντας – ξανακατέβηκα στο μετρό – σιχτιρίζοντας – βγήκα Σύνταγμα για ταξί –πλέον είχα περάσει σε επίπεδο τουρέτ - δεν είχα λεφτά, πήγα σήκωσα, μετά έπρεπε να χαλάσω το χαρτονόμισμα (γιατί άμα πλήρωνα την κούρσα με 20ρικο θα έπιανε και τον οδηγό τουρέτ) κι εκεί ήταν που πήρε το μάτι μου ένα πωλητήριο για το Χαμόγελο του Παιδιού.
Είναι μια γυναίκα μοναχική ένα θύμα που καμιά φορά μέσα στην απελπισία της δαγκώνει, μια μορφή που θυμίζει κάτι ανάμεσα σε αυτοκαταστροφική ηρωίδα του Τένεσι Ουίλιαμς και την κλασική ξεπεσμένη demi-mondaine των μυθιστορημάτων του 19ου αιώνα.

There's a quote on the back, something like "As stark and as ominous as a skeleton", and there it is.
The skeleton, belonging to everyone, utterly ordinary yet a source of dread.
The utter bleakness of this first Quartet of Rhys novels in the 20s and 30s, is that they all seem all too clear and habitual and believable.
The best ray of hope (not a refutation, but at least a counter-example), however, is that however autobiographically Rhys may have been writing here, she was writing.
So there's the bitter darkness of Rhys writing, and its built-in path to escape.
A dark, tragic disturbing tale of a once glamorous woman Julia.Now down on her luck after leaving Mr Mackenzie.Her looks are fading and Julia survives on her maintenance cheques from previous lovers.Living in a dismal Paris hotel.Julia then returns to London where she visits her sister and ailing mother.This is such a sad book which is beautifully written.One woman's struggle to survive against the odds.Very engrossing and way ahead of its time.Hard to believe it was written in 1930.

That started later on, when the same thing had happened five or six times over, and you were supposed to be getting used to it.” By the time Julia reaches thirty-six, when this story occurs, her ”career of ups and downs had rubbed most of the hall-marks off her, so that it was not easy to guess at her age, her nationality, or the social background to which she properly belonged.” Julia’s been tossed this way and that by life, and she struggles to find the energy to survive: ”she wasn’t the hard-bitten sort.
or perhaps projection):"It was curious to speculate about the life of a woman like that and to wonder what she appeared to herself to be - when she looked in the glass for instance.
Because of course, she must have some pathetic illusions about herself or she would not be able to go on living." Because, as all women of a certain age know, once you are past your beauty prime - why go on living?
They looked ashamed of themselves, as if they were begging the world in general not to notice that they were women or to hold it against them.”Trying to remember her childhood:“When you are a child you are yourself and you know and see everything prophetically.
It would be another 36 years before the starchy literary establishment acknowledged her with the 1967 WH Smith Literary Award, of which she said only, in that characteristic understated way she had with irony and words: 'It has come too late.'I laugh out loud and cry a little whenever I read Mackenzie, just as I so often do reading any of this formidable author's work.This novel should, like all her others of this period, have been far more successful than it was in its day, just as its Jean Rhys should have been given far greater recognition, far sooner, for her extraordinary talent.
Depressing 'here n' there'...but a Profound Literary Accomplishment,I completed this book on a flight from LA to NY on 10/11/2000.
I learned that Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis included Jean Rhys on her roster of favorite authors.
I had just finished an A+ book (The Notorious Dr. August)...so, maybe that's why I didn't give this 5 stars initially.
I did gasp when I read 'She's gone'.
Nothing can be worse than how I feel now, nothing.' I gasped again because in my eulogy to my mother I started it with those two words "Nothing matters"...as that was how I felt initially.
Overall, the book leaves you slightly depressed at the end.
But this is exactly the point and the strength of her narratives: they are unmistakably, painfully real.If I had to use one word to describe this novel, it would be 'bleak'.
Little by little we find out Julia has been made what she is, a woman who cannot make her own way, a woman who was beautiful, very beautiful once, and men would take care of her in exchange for her company.
And now, she is losing her beauty, and with that the interest of men, and with that any kind of income and any kind of respectable life.
Julia had abandoned herself. She was kneeling and sobbing and wishing she had brought another handkerchief. She was crying now because she remembered that her life had been a long succession of humiliations and mistakes and pains and ridiculous efforts. Everybody's life was like that. At the same time, in a miraculous manner, some essence of her was shooting upwards like a flame. She was great. She was a defiant flame shooting upwards not to plead but to threaten. Then the flame sank down again, useless, having reached nothing. (pg. 94-95)
"It is a terrible book about the final floundering to destruction of a friendless and worthless but pitiful woman. It is terrible, but it is superb." — Rebecca West"What a relatable protagonist!" — me
(I reviewed Quartet here.) After Leaving Mr. Mackenzie, Rhys’ second novel, came out in 1930, and was followed by Voyage in the Dark in 1934, and Good Morning, Midnight in 1939.
Rhys had a very interesting comment in her interview with The Paris Review in 1979, the year she died:“When I was excited about life, I didn’t want to write at all.
What came first with most of them was the wish to get rid of this awful sadness that weighed me down.” Jean Rhys, The Paris Review interview, 1979.After Leaving Mr. Mackenzie tells the story of Julia Martin, who has, well, left Mr. Mackenzie as the novel opens.
For the past six months, Julia has been surviving on an allowance of 300 francs per week which she receives from her ex-lover, Mr Mackenzie.When we first meet Julia, she is living in a room in a tawdry hotel in Paris – the sort of place where the staircase smells of the landlady’s cats.
19)As Mackenzie waits for his order at the restaurant, a place he had visited with Julia when they were together, his thoughts turn to their affair:He had lied; he had made her promises which he never intended to keep; and so on, and so on.
A book I've had on my bookshelves for some time but never got around to reading, dusted off while packing for a move.
Perhaps not the ideal book or frame of mind to put yourself into as you move across the country and question your life and direction and the bland little corporate apartment you are forced to live in at first - nope, not ideal for that.
A sad, desperate book.
But I love her sensibility, a down at the heels Edith Wharton.
The desperation women felt on having to look after themselves without actually looking after themselves...I thanked my lucky stars many times while reading it.
A throughline from Jane Austen to Edith Wharton to Jean Rhys is evident.
i am in the midst of reading all of rhys' work.
this is a dangerous thing to do and i may have to take a break from it.
that she wrote so exquisitely and still had such a low opinion of humanity seems to be a testament to something muscular and breathing under the cringing and sneering she sees the world reflect back to her, and i hope that i discover that that living thing underneath her misery is something more than just narcissism.
Quietly devastating.
Down to the grain this is a quiet short masterpiece. First instinct is that this little novel (by an anglo euro caribbean woman who didnt get recognized for another thirty years) should sit next to Flaubert and Tolstoy.
As the novel progressed, however, I came to appreciate also seeing Julia from the outside, as the others interpreted her and her actions, and seeing how the other characters, Mr. Mackenzie, Horsefield, Uncle Griffiths, Mr. James, and Norah, Julia's sister, each suffer their own interior alienation, and ultimately forgive themselves for their indifference and inability to feel or act upon their empathy for others.
The main character Julia Martin, is really rather pathetic, with very few redeeming qualities.
I know the choices open to women in the 1920's and 30's were more limited than they are now, but I just could not dig up much empathy for Ms. Julia Martin.
My favourite quote from the book:When you are a child you are yourself and you know and see everything prophetically.
Much of this book is said to be autobiographical for the author, Ms. Jean Rhys, that makes me quite curious to read a biography.
I did really enjoy Ms. Rhys's writing style, and look forward to reading some of her better known books.
This is a beautifully written little novel, which at the time it was written must have been a bit shocking.Julia Martin is a woman who has lived off the money of various lovers.
Her most recent Mr Mackenzie has been paying her through his lawyer to live in a run down hotel in Paris since she left him.
Now with no money left - and no longer as young as she was Julia faces an uncertain future.
Yet Jean Rhys had written so powerfully about Julia Martin's world that it becomes hard to forget it.
It is a short book filled with those dark, deep hidden truths that we like to keep buried.
It is a beautifully written book that tells the story from the perspectives of Julia, her sister and the men she comes to rely on in order to sustain herself.
For me, it was illuminating to see these terrible truths come into the light via these characters - the lies we tell ourselves, the anger we keep buried deep, the feelings that we thought no else could possibly have.
Jean Rhys is an absolute master of the feminine psychological interior - her work is very stream of consciousness yet succinct, and her characters complex yet very easy to relate to. I love the relationships her characters tend to have with men - naive but jaded, broken from past hurts, reckless, and full of misdirected, desperate need to fulfill something nebulous and undefined. Much like the confusion of real life after pain. I wish I could have met Jean Rhys in life. I suspect she was a very wise and intuitive woman.
This was a fascinating novel from the author of Wide Sargasso Sea. What was so interesting was how the point of view kept switching between characters, and then again between third person and second person. It happened seamlessly. Throughout you didn't know who you felt sympathy for, if anyone. It was a story of hopelessness which was surrounded by a post-Great War atmosphere of loneliness and the difference between the 'haves' and the 'have-nots'.
A book about the true horrors of being a woman with no prospects in the early twentieth century. I read it in a day and felt horribly depressed afterwards, but it's impossible to put down. Julia's desperation is sickening, and you find yourself almost wishing she would give up, but the fact that she doesn't is all the more terrifying. Possibly my favorite Rhys.
I am just recovering from the emotional hangover induced by this dark, short, well-shaped story. Rhys excels in setting a mood, I felt dragged into the downward spiral of the central character, a good time girl who is past her prime. It's not pretty, As Rhys writes, "It's so easy to "make a person who hasn't got anything seem wrong"
If the main character in AFTER LEAVING MR MACKENZIE is a self-portrait of Jean Rhys (and we can be pretty certain that it is) then it’s an unhappy one:“Coming out of the chemist’s shop at the end of the street Uncle Griffiths saw Julia approaching.
People turned around to look at her.”Like all of the woman central to the author’s first four novels, Julia depends on men for money.
This financial reliance drags on long after the men have had their fill and gone away, bored.
Julia yearns to be cared for and to wear pretty clothes.
