https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/858493.Angus_and_the_Ducks
This is one of the most charming books I've read to my son. Angus the dog is curious about everything. He wonders what that quacking sound is on the other side of the hedge, but he can never find out because he's always attached to a leash . . . until one day. I love the ending! My 3-year-old son also loved this book. We'll definitely be reading the other Angus books soon.
Cute ending.
This book is a perfect representation of how terriers interact with their world.
Puppy terriers in particular.
Having a terrier puppy may be making me partial to this book but so it goes.
Anyway, I think the writing and the pictures are a great match.
There is an interesting use of capitalization to add emphasis and the way that the type is distributed on the page gives the whole thing a feeling of movement and surprise.
The narration of the situation almost makes the pictures unfold like an America's Funniest Home Video tape (anyone who has spent any time watching this show knows that when you add geese it's going to be funny).
Summary ~ Angus is a young Scottish terrier who is curious about everything.
I have loved Angus the dog stories since I was a little girl.
I still love them and read them today to young children.
Marjorie Flack's use of capitalized letters and hyphenated words add emphasis and character to the reading of this story.
Her use of perspective draws our attention to the main character, Angus, and to the other creatures in the story—-a cat and two ducks.
Angus, as dog, is fully developed as the main character through illustrations revealing realistic expression and action.
One of the most delightfully illustrated books ever. The composition of each drawing is just right, the expressions on Angus's face priceless, and the way every other page is in black and white interesting. The story is so good to read aloud, lots of fun sounds to make, great skill with words, and much humor. The bright primary colors appeal to children.
This use to be in the preschool film packet (live action if I remember) way back when I started as a Children's librarian. I don't think I ever used it as a book in story time because of that and unfortunately there are only a couple left in the system now, one with 91 circs.
This is the story of Angus, a very curious dog.
Angus ran to the garden and across the ledge he found two ducks.
Angus barked at them and the ducks ran away.
Angus chased the ducks until they stopped at a stone watering.
Angus stopped barking too and he began to check around the place.
Angus began to run back to the house.
One of the ducks ripped Angus's tail, Angus ran faster to the house and he hid under the sofa.
Angus was so scared that he was not curious anymore.
My love for Angus knows no bounds. I'm aware that this is primarily the result of being a child whose family almost always had a Scottish Terrier, but how can you not adore this dog? In this installment, Angus's curiosity takes him through the open door and under the hedge so he can investigate that strange "quackity" sound. But this little black dog may be in over his head when his bark isn't as bad as the ducks' bite! The whole Angus series of books by Marjorie Flack is a delight, for lovers of Scotties and all curious dogs.
Sweet, lovely classic series. A must have for every child's library.
Delightful story of a little Scottish Terrier whose curiosity gets the better of him as he goes off in search of adventure and discovers some interesting new neighbors.
I listened to Angus and the Ducks as an audio book.
The piano music that accompanied the story was awesome.
Angus is a Scottie.
One the door is left open and he escapes to investigate the noises coming from the pond.
He discovers ducks that are making lots of noise.
He gets a bit to close, the duck nip at his tail.
Angus scurries home as fast as his short legs can take him.
Teaching application -The music in this audio book really helped set the mood and emotions for this story.
try a See, Say,Write activity with this story.
Love this! One of those sweet old-fashioned picture books (Copyright 1930) with lovely illustrations. Angus is curious about the ducks across the street and one day he gets a chance to go check them out. Starts out a bit text-heavy, but lightens up as it goes. So sweet. Will display for pet storytime. 3+
Angus and the Ducks by Marjorie Flack is the first of three books about the curious young Scottish Terrier, Angus, inclding the later Angus Lost and Angus and the Cat.Angus is curious about many things and many places, including Things-Outside.
Angus is usually on a leash, however, preventing him from finding out about the NOISE on the other side of the hedge that sounded like Quack!
When he barks, the ducks run off, with Angus following.
and HISS-S-S-S-S-S-S!, will be repeated by young readers.Flack's illustrations add to the humor.
For ages 3 to 7, dogs, ducks, curiosity, humor, and fans of Marjorie Flack.
He is especially curious about what makes the quacking sounds he hears from the other side of the green hedge when he is outside.
But he is always on a leash when he is outside, and someone is always at the other end of it, so his curiosity remains unsatisfied, since he can't see over the hedge.
After crawling under the hedge, he sees the pair of ducks and they see him.
His efforts at communication are met with rejection as the ducks run away.
He has learned that ducks aren't likely to be his friends anytime soon.
Another treasure found in the to-weed pile.
Angus is a Scottish terrier who is curious "about many places and many things." He is most curious about the noises coming from the other side of the garden.
Quack.
Quack.
Quack." One day he escapes and investigates and finds himself on the mean side of ducks.
If you've ever been hissed at by ducks or geese, you know how scary that can be!
I don't blame Angus for scrambling, scurrying and scampering home.
The illustrations, in basic lithograph colors, are dynamic and fun, especially the spreads where the ducks are chasing Angus.
After Harriet and I enjoyed Angus and the Cat a couple readers recommended Angus and the Ducks by Marjorie Flack.Angus continues to be a curious dog. This time he hears quacking from the other side of the hedge. He wants to find out what's making the noise. His curiosity gets the best of him and he learns that ducks aren't always nice.Everyone who suggested the book were right. Harried loved the book. Marjorie Flack's books hold up over time. I grew up with Ask Mr. Bear and now I'm enjoying the Angus books with my daughter.
This one's for the littles that want to read a book but you're not sure about their attention span. It's cute, classic and appealing!Ages: 3 - 5**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
I vaguely remember this book from when I was very young. I think my Father wanted to get me a puppy and it may well have worked! I was fearful of dogs from a very early age. However the next door neigbours had kittens and so I got a kitten instead. I do have an audio tape somewhere of my Father reading this story to me. All i can remember of the story is that there was Angus and he was a Scottish dog! Sorry ducks, dont remember you at all! :)
This is a sweet story about a funny little dog who encounters some ducks. We borrowed this audiocassette with a paperback book (ISBN 0374403856 / ISBN13 9780374403850) as part of a kit from our local library. We enjoyed listening to this story narrated by Gilbert Mack as we followed along with the book. We especially loved the ending, it was very funny.
The whole family admired how really trippy the coloring of the illustrations is. Seriously trippy. Yellow and pink halos around things. No one wanted to read the book, though, except me. Had I read this one in childhood, it would probably be a favorite, along with Angus Lost. Discovered late, however, it's just a weird artifact of an earlier time.Library copy
This was a cute little story of a puppy who meets some ducks and the interaction between them. It was silly and my kids laughed a lot. The illustrations are old-fashioned, but I liked that. She doesn't use many colors, but that seemed to enhance the book.We liked it. I'll probably read it again to them if I see it on a library shelf, but not sure if I'll seek it out.
This was one of the very first, if not THE first book I ever read in my life. I adored the pictures, done in old separation style of printing before half-tone full color. I loved the golden "aura" around all the living creatures, imparting a sense of life. A book I remember with fondness.
Mom is writing this, "Christian can read way more challenging books than this, but I have asked him to read some classics for young children that he missed enjoying earlier. You'll see more appear on this list in the next month. Thanks for understanding."
Angus is a curious little dog and his encounters with a pair of ducks that leads him on a frightening adventure. Angus's curious nature causes all sorts of problems. This book would be great for teaching pre-k and kindergartners to have some restraint.
Kinda cute. Ducks can be evil..
Adorably old-fashioned book about a curious dog and some ducks.
This was charming.
My kids love this book; it's delightful and well-written.
adorably colored, designed, illustrated and written. Original edition. Would love to see the release by FG
My husband reads this in a Scottish accent. It's marvelous.
