https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33385438-the-child-finder
I'm not sure I have the words to properly describe just how The Child Finder made me feel; it was heavy and disturbing in many ways but contained a haunting beauty that only Rene Denfeld seems capable of mastering.
Highly recommended with caution, as the content could be a little much for some readers (more on this below).Without spoiling any details or going too far into the plot, you know from the blurb that this story changes between various POVs, but is mainly regulated to Naomi and "The Snow Child".
"What were you running from, then?" she had asked."Monsters," was all that Naomi could remember. This is the second book I've read by Denfield, the first being The Enchanted, and both have really affected me. She captures all the ugliness and horrors of our world and wraps it up in a story that feels almost like a fairy tale.I doubt The Child Finder will become as popular as the recent buzz book My Absolute Darling, but it is everything I had hoped that book might be. The stories are somewhat s
Both stories are heavily-influenced by the setting and nature, though I find the writing here much more palatable.The Child Finder is about a private investigator, Naomi, and the missing children she finds.
Naomi's perspective is interspersed with what feels like a fairy tale - that of the snow girl who was born in the forest, who barely remembers a time before when she had a family who loved her.It is a beautifully-written, complex tale about the cyclical nature of abuse.
this is something I know: no matter how far you have run, no matter how long you have been lost, it is never too late to be found.  Rene Denfield’s first novel, The Enchanted, was a dazzling look into a dark place. It showed that even under the bleakest circumstances life and hope can find a way to make the unbearable into a transcendent experience. No sophomore jinx here. Denfeld has done it again. There are similarities in core concept between The Child Finder and The Enchanted. Both deal wi
In The Enchanted The Lady represented death row inmates, looking for the truth in their cases, and ways to keep them from dying.
In this story Naomi is The Child Finder, a freelance investigator with a passion and a gift for locating missing kids.
Denfeld knows a fair bit about such things, as her day job entails investigating on behalf of death row inmates.
Naomi as a child and Madison are held in subterranean, cave-like places.
This is still an amazing book.The Child Finder is a beautifully written, gripping page turner, rich with psychological insight, emotional engagement, life-and-death peril, and a memorable cast of characters, rooted in a darkly atmospheric landscape.
Everyone who knows her or knows of her, knows she's the best at finding missing children.When Naomi is asked how she finds the children, she tells them it's "because she knows freedom".Madison would be eight, if she was still alive.Naomi is honest with the parents she works with and tells Madison's parents that even if she does find Madison, she won't be the same."she will come back needing you" Child Finding is not a job to Naomi but a calling.
Waking with more questions than answers.Naomi normally never works more than one case at one time.
Lately I feel like a broken record ....."This is the best book".....sad, beautiful....extraordinary....written exquisitely!!!
I absolutely loved the characters - Naomi ( The Child Finder) and Madison ( The Snow Child....
Unforgettable characters!!!Mrs. Cottle, who raised Naomi - her foster care mother- also had my heart.
Later, Jerome, also a foster child.Well, the very 'first' creature that Naomi let get close to her was a family cat.
without thinking - but kinda shaking - I got off the phone and kept reading....this line: "Naomi felt tired in a sad way--the kind of tired where you want to run and cry at the same time".
The beauty and the darkness of that book made it exceptional and really something else.
This second book of this wonderful author, The Child Finder is equally beautiful and dark, grim, deeply disturbing even...
Five stars, no doubt, highly recommended.This is the story: 3 years ago, Madison Culver disappeared when her family was choosing a Xmas tree in a national forest.
As Naomi relentlessly pursues and slowly uncovers the truth behind Madison's disappearance, shards of her own past, a dark dream pierce the defenses that have protected her.
"Once upon a time," she said, "before I can remember."And like a crisp Russian folktale encased in icy frost and deep layers of snow, Rene Denfeld combines a fairytale-like setting with the harsh edges of this world's razored reality.Naomi stares at a frontdoor yet to be answered.
Naomi offers no magical words of false hope when all indications are that Madison suffered the fate of being lost in the impassable terrain of the forest.
For you see, Naomi still suffers from a lost identity herself as a child.
This one did just that.Naomi calls herself the child finder.
After heart-wrenching years of holding out hope she’ll be found, they turn to Naomi.
Meanwhile, young Madison has relied on her love of Russian folklore and her favorite story of The Snow Girl to keep her safe and provide the strength she needs to survive.Throughout the book, Naomi fights her own demons from the past, yet is able to channel them to assist her in her search.
“No matter how far you have run, no matter how long you have been lost, it is ever too late to be found.”This book is so tastefully crafted.
I was lucky enough to be the first in line for it at my library.The story begins with Madison, a young girl who is in search for the perfect Christmas tree alongside her parents in Oregon’s Skookum National Forest.
The book flips back and forth between Naomi’s past and the present search for Madison and also another case, a missing baby.In the dream it was night and she was again a naked child running across a dark field.
I liked all of the characters, but I wasn’t sure about how I felt about the story switching back to Naomi’s past.
As you can see I was blown away by her writing and the fantastic way she assembles her story lines.
Naomi is a child finder she has gone through some traumatic experiences in her past, and we get glimpses of this throughout the story.
I wish she would have stuck with her one case rule because the second case she takes was a small wrinkle in an otherwise almost perfect reading experience.
Really couldn't see the need for this case, though it did concern a missing child, it was I thought an unnecessary diversion.
Many have had horrible experiences in life, and have found unique ways of dealing with them.
You've got that right. But it's not Gaston who has slayed me this time, it is Rene Denfeld's exquisite new book, The Child Finder.Denfeld has left me breathless before, with her incredible debut novel, The Enchanted (see my original review), which made my list of the best books I read last year. With her second novel, she proves her talent for creating exceptionally memorable characters and beautiful stories which you cannot get out of your mind.Naomi is an investigator with an uncanny ability
But it's not Gaston who has slayed me this time, it is Rene Denfeld's exquisite new book, The Child Finder.Denfeld has left me breathless before, with her incredible debut novel, The Enchanted (see my original review), which made my list of the best books I read last year.
With her second novel, she proves her talent for creating exceptionally memorable characters and beautiful stories which you cannot get out of your mind.Naomi is an investigator with an uncanny ability of finding lost children.
She was once a lost child, taken and kept for many years until she is recovered.
Placed in a foster home with Mary Cottle who loves her unconditionally, she grows up with her beloved foster brother, Jerome, but leaves home as soon as possible.
The parents of the lost Madison Culver beg Naomi to find her, even though she has been gone for three years.
Naomi becomes the hunter, for Madison and facing deeply embedded fears to find the child within herself.
In silent, dying and remote communities, Naomi follows the trail of the snow girl.
You will not put us aside."  - The Child Finder Madison Culver disappeared in the woods one snowy day as her family searched for a Christmas tree.
Madison was presumed buried in the snow or scavenged by animals.
Desperate but unwilling to give up on her daughter she contacted Naomi, a private investigator known as the Child Finder, for help.
There had been a time when Naomi herself was a lost child.
She endured horrors no child should ever have to endure.It feels almost impossible to explain how a book seeped with such darkness and sorrow was also full of love, hope and bravery.
There are a lot of good things about this book.
Three years ago from now, a child has disappeared and her parents turn to Naomi to find her.
Naomi herself was a lost child.
This fact could have been omitted but it's an important part of the book, so what the heck, let's go with it.I was a bit unfair with the author for writing purple prose, but I really thought that nowadays a lot of new authors want to cram all of their ideas into one book.
If you want a better review of this book check out Chelsea's review:-https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Denfeld takes us into the deep, dark recesses of a child gone missing for 3 years.
The imagination and its vividness making the missing girl, no longer Madison, but instead now, Snow Girl.Enter Naomi "the Child Finder".
She hunts missing children, some more successfully than others.
Interspersing fairytales with the story being told from both snow girl and Naomi.
Vivid imagery.
And again she successfully does the unthinkable - have us feel sympathy for a monster.Denfeld, you moved me with The Enchanted and did it all over again with The Child Finder.
My first 5⭐️ of the year and I'm glad to share it with you.
An absolute 5 star read!!A five year old girl goes missing during a family outing to the woods to find a Christmas tree, much snow falls here in Oregon and it is a difficult search.Naomi, a renowned Child Finder is sought out by the parents to work this case after a few years of no leads. Naomi has a personal history of being lost herself.This is the story of Madeline, the missing girl and also of Naomi's search in finding herself.I just loved this book!
Madison Culver disappeared three years ago when her family was choosing a Christmas tree in Oregon's SnookumNational Forest.
Madison Culver loves Reading and writing and going for nature walks.
The Snookum National Forest was very dangerous.
Naomi Cottle was called The Child Finder.
She was a lost child too.
I love a setting in a forest or woods.
This is a dark and disturbing book so the setting isn't so tranquil but it is beautifully done.
I loved the fairy tale of The Snow Girl!Close to the end, I was on the edge of my seat.
The Child Finder is a disturbing, yet magically beautiful tale about survival and freedom.  When children go missing, Naomi, a private investigator, makes it her life’s mission to find them. Once a lost child herself, Naomi seems to have a magical ability to find those who seem to be lost forever. “It will be people like us that save the world, she said: those who have walked the side of sorrow and seen the dawn"  Naomi takes on the case of 5 year old Madison, missing for three years in the dar
The Child Finder is a disturbing, yet magically beautiful tale about survival and freedom.
Once a lost child herself, Naomi seems to have a magical ability to find those who seem to be lost forever.
Naomi takes on the case of 5 year old Madison, missing for three years in the dark depths of the mountainous forest.
Juxtaposed with Naomi's story is Madison’s plight in the enchanting, yet sinister forest.
The Child Finder is an awe-inspiring read.
It’s enchanting and horrific at the same time.
Wow!I was looking forward to reading this book after seeing all the amazing reviews and it certainly lived up to all the hype.
I was worried that the magical realism element might be too much for me as that is not something I typically enjoy, yet the way it was integrated into this beautiful story was done so extremely well that I absolutely loved it!
It was the perfect mix of fiction with a touch of magical realism.
It was a pleasure reading this along with my lovely Norma.
To find our full Traveling Sister Read review, please visit Norma and Brenda's fabulous blog at:https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
"There is something I know: no matter how far you have run, no matter how long you have been lost, it is never too late to be found."Three years ago, five-year-old Madison and her parents were picking out a Christmas tree in Oregon’s Skookum National Forest.
Her parents have never given up hope and have hired Naomi who is known as "the child finder." to find their daughter.
All they want is for their daughter to be returned to them and desperately hope the child finder will find Madison.Naomi has a gift for finding lost children as she is a little lost herself, some say she is afraid of being found.
Even after finishing it we are still finding that we can’t stop thinking about this book.RENE DENFELD delivers a vivid and beautifully written story here with absolutely fantastic character development, wonderful narrative, and an extremely enthralling storyline.
Through the strong female character of Naomi’s perspective and The Child Finder we delved into her hidden past and her story and character kept us intrigued and captivated right to the very end.To sum it all up it was an interesting, engrossing, unforgettable, emotional, and an enjoyable read that left us both feeling totally satisfied with the extremely touching ending.
5 snowy stars for the Child Finder and the Snow Girl❄❄❄❄❄ WOW WOW WOW!!! This book was simply sTUNNING!!!I am currently putting together a list of my top Reads of 2017 this book is definitely on that list.....Rene Denfeld did not just tell you a story with this book she made you feel the story.... you felt Naomi‘s strength and inner struggles.... you felt Madison’s fortitude and innocence.... you felt the parents pain and hope.... you felt the cold and barren landscape....Naomi had a troubled pa
This book was simply sTUNNING!!!I am currently putting together a list of my top Reads of 2017 this book is definitely on that list.....Rene Denfeld did not just tell you a story with this book she made you feel the story....
you felt the parents pain and hope....
Naomi and I probably have very little in common, but she was so relatable and so likable, I just felt as though I always knew where she was coming from (even though I’ve never been there myself)....
so often in books foster parents are villainized....
I really loved that Rene Denfeld gave her a voice....
My first thought after finishing this book was to question how in the heck this author can make characters come to life in just over two hundred pages whereas sometimes it never happens in some puppy-squishing books? Because Wow.Madison went missing three years ago when her family drove to the woods to pick out a Christmas tree. It's always amazing how simple your day can be when tragedy strikes. Her parents have not given up hope that she will be found.They turn to the "Child Finder" Naomi. She
There is not always a happy ending and Naomi makes sure that parents are ready for that also.The thing about Naomi is...she was also a lost child.
I LOVED this even though idiot me wanted Naomi to trust more than she did.Everyone needs faith: faith that even though the world is full of evil, a suitor will come and kiss us awake; faith that the girl will escape the tower, the big bad wolf will die, and even those poisoned by malevolence can be reborn, as innocent as purity itself.For such a horrible subject matter this book is a frigging knock out of the ball park.
and to think I wasn't even going to read this bookRene Denfeld's prose is beautiful and magical, a captivating and realistic tale, sad and haunting and yet so much beauty in her descriptions of people and mountain landscapes.I listened to this one on audio and the story was beautifully narrated by Alyssa Bresnahan, the pace was excellent and authors tone really added to this wonderful experience.
There is sadness in the story but the book does make you think and feel and I thoroughly enjoyed the read and have been recommending this one to many of my friends.
But snow girl thought she could." Naomi is an experienced and determined investigator....a child finder, and her present case takes her on a dangerous search in the snowy Oregon wilderness for eight year old Madison Culver missing for three long years.Multi-layered, THE CHILD FINDER intertwines the search for Madison as well as a search for memories Naomi herself keeps buried deep inside....her own story of monsters too horrifying to remember....a past that holds a devastating secret.It is also a story of parental love and hope, of a foster mom with a big heart, and a man who lost a part of himself, but continues to fight for what he wants.
In other words, it didn’t flow completely from the narrative and it pulled me out of the story a couple of times.While this story and its characters may not have been perfect for me, they come very close – close enough that I could experience with the characters their thoughts and feelings, their determination, and their will to not just survive but to also do whatever is necessary to redeem themselves in their own eyes.I adore Rene Denfeld’s writing and her ability to create strong, believable characters who are on a quest to achieve a goal or goals despite the odds against them.
Naomi Cottle is a private investigator who specializes in finding missing children, and this passion grew out of her own experiences.
"It was like the story in the Bible where God created the earth and what was formless and desolate became green and alive."Naomi is about as stoic a main character as I've ever come across.
This detracted from the plot and the characters in more ways than one.
While the lion's share of dialogue flowed smoothly, there were little things that irked me, like the fact that the characters didn't use contractions very often.
This is the first book by Denfeld I have read.
Naomi is in her late 20s and works as a private detective specializing in child abduction.
The story focuses on the case Naomi works on and her own history.
I don't want to say more to avoid spoilers, but Denfeld deals with the experience of child abduction from abrilliantly multi layered perspective.
There's no need to avoid this book if you're troubled by graphic content.
It's also worth reading Denfeld's brief acknowledgments at the end because it adds some context to the book.
Many people resented that side trip, but I liked it.There are two main characters (one is Naomi the child finder, of course), and for the first half of the book I just wasn’t feeling anything for Naomi.
Joy Jar (summary):-Lots of language to die for.-One strong, memorable character with a beautiful imagination.-Psychological insight.-Tense, fantastic scene at the end.-Shows the power of imagination in survival.-Big-time atmospheric without clumps of invasive description.-Denfeld can do confinement like no other.Complaint Board (summary):-Not a unique storyline.-Some boring dialogue.-Slow first half.-Not attached to the Child Finder.-Fairy tales detracted a little from story.There is a fantastic feel to this dark and disturbing book, which for me didn’t happen until the halfway mark.
“‘My husband thinks I should go back to work,’ the mother said. ‘Work is good,’ Naomi said gently. ‘I can’t,’ the mother said, and Naomi understood. You can’t leave your house if at any moment your child might come home. The door opened to a room of perfect sadness. There was a twin bed, covered with a Disney quilt. A series of pictures on the wall: ducks flying. MADISON’S ROOM, read the appliqué letters above the bed. There was a small bookshelf and a larger desk covered with a mess of pens an
‘I can’t,’ the mother said, and Naomi understood.
There’s a feeling in Denfeld’s “The Child Finder” of despair, a darkness born of some unknown, veiled wickedness, and yet there is a simple childlike hope and belief in goodness that flows through this story.
Naomi understands what it is like, the aftermath of being taken as a child still haunts her, her dreams.
Or is it possible, after three years missing, you are still alive?”When Madison is found by Mr. B., she copes with her new life by envisioning herself a snow child, created by him, for this life in a remote cabin in the snow.
