https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11100026-westwood
If Cold Comfort Farm was a high point of a peculiar kind of class-based English humour, then this is the low-point of an author who hits you on the head with her absolutely humourless opinions on class, beauty and stupid women.
This is so bad it leaves you wondering how anyone this awful actually had it in them to write a masterpiece.The only thing that stuck with me was Lady Pronounces-on-Everything saying to the extremely good, extremely plain and unbelievably stupid heroine that (because of her unfortunate looks) she might never get married and might have to do the most difficult thing on earth - learn to live without love.Oh dear.
Additionally, for a novel with is so definitely set during the war years in London, it seems strange that the war is mentioned so infrequently, and none of the characters seem particularly touched by the larger events occurring at the time (although Margaret does have a brother who is enlisted and called up during the book).
It's a shame that Gibbons has seemingly fallen out of favour with publishers for so long, but this novel (along with a few others) have been reprinted by Vintage, so maybe the time is right for a revival of interest in this little known author.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:In 1943 bomb-hit London, teacher Margaret Steggles falls under the spell of the wealthy Challis family. Episode 2:Teacher Margaret Steggles wonders if pompous playwright Gerald Challis really is the man of her dreams.Stars Juliet Aubrey.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01322b0
I really enjoyed this book, it tells the story of two friends, Margaret and Hilda, and of their lives and those people who they meet during the Second World War. However it is not a blow by blow account of life day to day more about the interactions between people and how those relationships go on to either mean something or do not.This book was written after the war in the mid 1940's and that is reflected in the style of writing.
Al cambiar de público objetivo, la novela necesita casi 90 explicaciones en forma de pié de página para que lleguemos a atisbar de qué nos está hablando.Hay historias que sin embargo son universales, podría una trama interesante salvar los obstáculos descritos anteriormente pero no es el caso.
Además la trama es lenta y no sólo es capaz de despertar el interés lector en pocos momentos.Sólo recomendaría este libro a fervientes amantes de lo británico y estos seguro que saben inglés así que, mejor lean la obra original porque en esta también había alguna que otra frase traducida de aquellas maneras.
And the insufferably pretentious misogynistic playwright Challis (Mybug gets bumped to major character!) provides Gibbons opportunity for much delicious stabbiness:"He knew that his plays were good; each one better than its predecessor.
It was difficult to describe, but he himself had not demurred when one admirer had coined for it the phrase 'a style of iron and shadows.' ....He always wrote obliquely of people's personal charms, making a man say to a woman, 'Your throat is a taut chord,' or 'Your ankle bone is softly moulded.'"
I like the blurb on the edition I read: "Stella Gibbons is the Austen of the 20th century".It's great to see she seems to be having a come-back with her other books, and won't just be remembered for the brilliant "Cold Comfort Farm".
¡Maravillosa!Llevo leídas con esta obra cuatro novelas de Stella Gibbons y debo admitir que esta autora es mi nueva debilidad.
Decent enough little romp set in wartime-London, filled with the loathsome members of a pretentious middle class family who treat the hapless narrator with the contempt that only the posh can muster. Does a great job of capturing the mood of the time.
I don't ususally have any problems with unlikeable characters, but aside from Margaret who was exceptionally dull, most of the many other characters in this book were shallow and vain, particularly Mr Challis, his daughter Hebe Niland, Margaret's friend Hilda Wilson, and Alex Niland, the artist.
A little humour would have gone a long way to making it more palatable, and in general I felt that this novel was very dated, particularly in the parts when Margaret helped to look after the disabled daughter of her Father's colleague Dick.
I was surprised to read a couple of negative reviews of this book as I absolutely loved it, although its 30 years since I read Cold Comfort Farm so in that respect I can't make a comparison.
I disagree with some reviews on amazon that all of the characters are unsympathetic.
They all have their unattractive sides, which the author makes a point of showing us, but that unfortunately is humam nature.
The central character also changes throughout the book and is much more of a complete person by the end.
The novel opens with a vibrantly beautiful description of a day in London, and then drops the information that it's wartime and all this beauty being soaked in by people reaching out for beauty and happiness in the midst of ruin.
The heroine is an earnest, beauty hungry person who has her dreams answered by becoming attached to a playwrights family, and she heads towards the disillusionment the reader expects.
Gibbons wittily leads her heroine to the brink of what looks like a disappointing accommodation and lesson learned, she and leads her away to something deeper and more interesting.
I really enjoyed this book. It has some wonderful characters and a lot of quite subtle humour. It is mainly about the relationship between Margaret Steggles, a young rather plain school teacher, and the glamorous and Bohemian Challis family. Set in North London at the end of WW2 the period is well conveyed. I didn’t initially find Margaret a very likeable character but by the end of the book I had considerable sympathy for her.
Often reads like a rough draft where an author has indicated lots of places where she's going to come back later and devise a way to "show, not tell," but then never got around to it. Still, somewhere around the halfway point I found myself engaged enough to stick it out. And there are a few funny bits, most of them involving the word "Grandpa," and the glimpse at the lives and times is a nice bonus.
There's the protagonist Margaret, her friend Hilda, and a mysterious older gentleman named Gerard Challis.
Whilst out on a walk one day, Margaret finds a ration book belonging to the family of Challis (thus explaining how and why she meets him).
Despite it being set during the war, it felt like it was taking place years after it (I can't be the only one who felt like this?)Moreover, there was definitely a lack of plot, and I found this rather frustrating at times because I am a plot-driven reader.
This book has the same sort of autumnal feel as some of Barbara Pym's work.
Margaret is a schoolteacher during World War II in England, and she has a new teaching position at a girls' school in London.
She gains the entree into the Challis home, Westwood, by befriending their Jewish refugee housekeeper, Zita.
There are several plot threads, some involving Margaret's good friend Hilda, and some involving the extended family around the Challises and Westwood.
It's also a book about London during World War II that I actually enjoyed.
I found it hard to get into at first and, as much as I sympathised with Margaret, it's hard to be so much in her head.I found the ending unsatisfactory, not because Margaret didn't find love (although don't we always secretly long for the plain protagonist to be swept off her feet in the end?!), but because she didn't seem to really find peace or resolution.
It felt as though Stella Gibbons had got tired of her.Perhaps it's frustrating because it's realistic, but somehow you expect fiction to be both real and allow a bit of wish-fulfilment too.
I read this several times over a decade ago and loved it dearly; I have no idea if it would hold up for me now -- I fear not -- but I am rating it highly in memory of how much I enjoyed it originally. Sometime perhaps I will try rereading it and see how it is.
One of those books you hope never to end.
Loved this one, classic.
It reads like a weird appendix, Explaining What It's All About.I must allow the author the dignity of respecting her clearly stated theme of how a woman must learn to live with or without men, by using The Gentle Powers of Beauty, Time, the Past, Pity and Laughter.
The English title, emphasizing the two Westwood cottages, implies more of a "this is how we live" theme.
The American title, more the women/men theme.
After all, it starts with house hunting, and spends a great deal of time describing Margaret's mother's housekeeping, Lamb Cottage, the two Westwoods, Lady Challis' knocked-together row of cottages, and even the Niland's St. John's Wood wreck.More confusion ensued because of Gibbons' inexpert use of the omniscient POV.
She looks at her heroine's romantic attitude toward life and throughout the novel explores the absurdity of one of the objects of her misguided adoration, a pretentious playwright named Gerard Challis.
The reason why you feel so sorry for poor Maggie Tulliver is that she did try; she tried so hard, in spite of being weak and passionate and loving, and she was betrayed by her own weakness, and you feel she was good, in spite of her faults, and so you're all the sorrier for her."Gibbons feels the pull toward the romantic, the ideal, poetry--she was a poet, too.
I’m impressed by how realistic they are, it can be hard for characters not to become stereotypes or just unbelievable, even when trying to make them realistic.Gibbons seems much more interested in London than her characters, describing it in great detail throughout the book which for her would have been a way of preserving and treasuring her memories of the place she lived in, but for readers becomes overly fanciful compared with the blandness of the people in the book who lived there.
The ending of this book I still don’t get, Gerald’s mum seemed like she was going to be a great character but she just turned out weird.
I'm a sucker for that kind of local domestic detail: the Lyon's Corner Houses / 'Old Vienna Cafe' and the 'British Restaurant’ (you can't read a 30s-50s London novel without stumbling across a Lyon's Corner House).
Gibbons captures the disarming ghastliness of the upper classes very well (with the fine exception of the Clarissa Dickson Wright-like Lady Challis - who's a thoughtful battleaxe).
Indeed, the children were the prime weakness in the novel for me: I couldn’t really believe in Margaret's doormat devotion to them.
She’s thoughtful, yes.
So, a light addition to your lesser London novels collection.
I am a little puzzled by this novel, which is very different to Cold Comfort Farm and sequels, the only other Stella Gibbons I’ve read.
I winced at the truth of this: ‘Like most seekers for an ideal woman, he did not really like women, believing that they disappointed and failed him on purpose’.
I sympathised with her, as she seemed to personify the plight of academically minded women at the time.
Thus Gibbons seems to have drawn attention to the sad plight of a single woman, but I couldn’t determine whether she was trying to make that wider social point.
It could easily have been extremely sentimental but Stella Gibbons explored her themes realistically and with humour, so on the whole it avoided that problem (although the ending was a little bit too sweet for my taste).
Most of the humour created by his character was at his expense and sometimes a little bit cruel.
I suspect that I was supposed to laugh at her a little, but at the same time, feel some sympathy for her, but I didn't see the humour.So I really liked some aspects of this book, but others didn't quite work for me.
I would be perfectly happy reading only books about posh midcentury artistic circles from now until the end of my particular volume, and this was very much that.The book is curiously static, though, and almost slight.
It's a bit like a well-written but slightly dull diary -- though there may be a sort of formal purpose in this, a commitment to everydayness and its muted affects.At first, Westwood looked to be setting out to be Muriel-Spark scathing, with its avowedly plain heroine and unpleasant supporting characters, but Gibsons backed off into quiet sentiment, settling somewhere in the company of Persuasion or I Capture the Castle.
Poor Margaret Steggles -- she is a plain, day-dreaming young woman, a girl's-school teacher in wartime London who has been disappointed in what might have been love.
She meets artists and emigres and Yank soldiers and learns quite a bit about the ways of the wider world.A gentle comedy of manners, this novel by the author of the wonderful comedic novel Cold Comfort Farm, is both more serious and more moving.
Still, while this is a more subtle and complicated set of characters than Cold Comfort Farm (sadly, because the latter is really a masterpiece of humor, it's impossible not to compare), it may be one of my favorite novels of the year.
What I most remember (and loved) about this book is that its central character is afflicted with the problem of finding the Romantic elsewhere, and out of reach, rather than right in front of her, in the ordinary life.
It seemed to me to pose another possible book entirely and got me asking questions rather than feeling at all settled.
I began to trace back, too, how in subtle ways the book is moving in that direction throughout.
(Not being explicit here so as not to share the ending.)Some might also have trouble with what at first felt to me to be the sometimes cumbersome pace or the lengthened dramatic structure of the book....
I didn't love it immediately, it sort of crept up on me, a wonderful evocation of war time England both in the different physical landscapes but also of the lives of people separated by class, education, aspiration and money at a the cusp of great change and upheaval.
It appears to be gentle tale of heroine conscious raising but there was so much in it that was also quite modern for its time.
It was very astute about the lives, loves, temperament & personalities of both men and women.
I wished I had read it when I was very much younger for its wisdom and humour.
