https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108635.The_Second_Common_Reader

Here's the thing about Woolf. Even if you disagree with her (as I do over Chesterfield, for example), you can hold a mental conversation with her, and you sense that she will listen sympathetically. She's rarely snide, and never petty in these essays; she doesn't always have all the facts, and sometimes betrays the limitations of her time, but who doesn't?One essay over breakfast is a wonderful way to begin the day.
An ideal critic, humane and intimate reader. I like that these essays read like a lifelong reading journal; we get the moody responsiveness, the tactility of encounter. This book immediately conjures Virginia Stephen, the young girl educating herself in her father's library.
Even though this was like the first Common Reader, I thought this one was kind of boring.
There is no order to these books, but I'd skip this one unless you want to read everything Woolf.
I've read almost all her novels (except Night and Day) and a list of non-fiction too.
I've read all the books I own of hers too (16 to be exact).
Will I read more Woolf?
Yes, if I find books I don't own I'll most likely get them.
Kind of glad I saved this one for last.
What a mind as never is Virginia Woolf's!
In her second tour de force in literary criticism, Woolf's collection of book reviews and essays upon authors and their failures and successes astounds the reader with her perceptive and sensitive reading of books and clear understanding of authors' personalities, ambitions, and histories.
I could go on for pages, citing incidences of essays that moved me to tears, or angered me that a particular author that I find excellent is severely ridiculed by the critics of his/her day but there's just not enough space here for me to do so.If you are a lover of books, British literature, literary criticism, and of course, the writing of Virginia Woolf, you must not pass up an opportunity to read this collection.
Oricât de mult ne-am strădui, nu putem să ne afundăm cu totul, fiindcă mereu va exista în noi acel demon care șoptește, ”I hate, I love”, și pe acesta nu-l putem reduce la tăcere.Dacă prima parte a cititului îndeamnă cititorii să-și deschidă mintea la infinitatea de impresii subtile din pagină, atunci cea de-a doua este cea de a judeca, de a compara – sarcină deloc ușoară.
The title is self-explanatory.
Not as engaging as the first volume.
Three favorite essays from this book are "Aurora Leigh", a complete, not to say exhaustive, treatment of Elizabeth Browning's poem; "The Novels of Thomas Hardy", and "How Should One Read a Book?" An interesting technique employed here: a book or the work of a particular author will be presented in a distinctly negative way, with appropriate evidence.
Ms. Woolf then will reverse her position totally, and point out precisely why the work being considered is indeed worthwhile.
It's very well done, though, and engaging, in an odd sort of way.
On the second collection of articles by Virginia Woolf, I was under the impression that she was big on Victorian writing.
Some notable authors make a comeback here and when someone appears twice in two collections we have to pay attention.I see Virginia Woolf loved reading Autobiographies, especially with an aim to learn what influences people had in their lives.
While we must be forced to compare, compare good books with good books at the very least.I would also like to know more about George GissingThe Times literary supplement, Life and Letters, The Nation, Vogue, The New York Herald, The Yale Review, and Figaro seemed to have good articles back then.
Very very very good
So when Woolf writes about Donne, she also mentions Spenser and Sidney after covering them in relationship and comparison to Gabriel Harvey in the previous essay, before looking at Sidney more closely in the following essay on Arcadia.
So follows through the rest of the collection, providing a great sense of not just reading a grab-bag of essays on figures in English literature, but ones carefully chosen to span from the 16th century to the early 20th through an unbroken series of links.

A collection of excellent, relatively short essays on various literary topics by Virginia Woolf. I'm surprised I haven't heard as much about Woolf's essays, because they're all pretty great. My personal favorites were her anaylsis of Thomas Hardy's novels, and her answer to the question, "Why read a book?"
This time, my favorites were the essays on Arcadia and on Fanny Burney. Woolf brilliant captures the mingled fascination and dismay of picking up Sidney's hefty, intricate, and purpley-prosed romance. The Burney essay sympathetically highlight's Burney's inventive love of words, and the last anecdote reads like a short story.
IncipitÈ molto divertente immaginare di poter tornare indietro ...http://www.incipitmania.com/incipit-p...
