https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47754.They_Never_Came_Home
Cardboard characters, melodrama, terrible dialogue, dopey plot, rampant sexism and outdated social mores make this book a forgettable and irritating reading experience.
Larry Drayfus and Dan Cotwell go hiking in the mountains near their home in Las Cruces, New Mexico.
Dan knows Larry only because he is dating Larry’s older sister, Joan.
They live in California!Joan and Frank, meanwhile, agree to “run errands” for Mr. Brown, the mystery man, in order to work off the $2k that Larry owes him.
My questions: Why did Larry bring Dan with him to California?
The convoluted reasoning for Larry to bring Dan with him is an example of very bad plot construction.
I normally love books by this author, but this one was unironically sexist and left little to the imagination in terms of plot. Love the author, just not this book.
This book did alright but I hated the mystery this book spends to much time on flash backs and on the girl friend I was hoping that this book would have more entreating parts because it is called they never came home but spoiler they did come home this book does not stick to its tittle and when they do come back it is so boring it just talks about them walking away and not how Dan owed a company 2 thousand dollars.I recommend people do not have to suffer reading this bad book.
(Although yes, I know she wrote Hotel For Dogs and that she writes a lot of non-scary books, too.)I really like the premise of this book.
How long can you keep hoping?And what happens if you're Joan and one of the missing boys is your boyfriend and the other is your brother?
(And when the third, your father, has a bad heart so you could, in theory, lose him, too?)So yes, this is different than her other books.
This is my second Lois Duncan book.
The mystery isn't particularly hard to figure out, but it might be surprising for younger readers.I've been reading ebook versions of Lois Duncan's books, and funnily enough, they've been slightly updated.
So you'll see mentions of cell phones & online classes in here.
Since I've never read the original unedited edition, I honestly don't know what else they might have changed.
I'm honestly not a fan of the updates.
The modern updates, like cell phones and the internet, are a bit jarring.
If you're interested in reading this book, I'd suggest trying to pick up an older edition.
Read this in an evening. The twist was obvious, but still I wanted to finish it. Simple but interesting. Unfortunately, I got the 2012 edition from the library. This meant that most of the story felt like the sixties, and then Joan takes online courses like it's the nineties all of a sudden. I then questioned how much else had been changed.
I started reading this and realized I read it when I was in High school. I enjoyed it though, it has a nice twist to it, although it is pretty predictable throughout the book.
i really liked this book! it really kept me on my toes to find out wat happened next! i highly recomend this book!
As Joan, Larry's sister, tries to protect her mother, she receives a phone call claiming that her brother owes this mysterious guy 50,000 dollars.
As she tries her best to make up for her brother's debt (by taking on this mysterious job), she starts to discover that this disappearance may not be as simple as everyone thinks.To be honest, I managed to guess the 'twist' in the story the first time the narrative cuts away from Joan and Frank (Dan's brother).
I also thought that the reveal of Larry's true character was quite well-done, though very predictable.All in all, I think this is a fun, quick read.
While I didn't enjoy this book as much as some her more supernaturally propelled novels, Duncan's always an emotionally observant writer and her characters are always believable.
That said this book is hilariously dated in parts.
Written in 1968 the stakes of this story revolve around a missing *TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS* and a student who's "breaking bad" by selling marijuana.
These plot twists are told to us in dramatic chapter-ending revelations that made me drop the book with laughter.
I highly recommend reading this one instead of the recent updated version that changed marijuana into (woah) black tar heroin.
"They Never Came Home" by Lois Duncan is a mysterious novel.
The whole idea behind the book was great, but the way it was built wasn't.
Until a mysterious call happens and everything changes.
Ever time I read, I would have to go back and reread to understand what was happening and where.
The way the novel was set was back and forth, between two different scenarios.
Made it hard to understand what was going on.
As you read you could easily figure out what was going to happen.
The ending was out of character, it didn't make any sense.
When I got into this book, I almost stopped reading it because I thought it was getting boring. I did decide to read a little further and the book became so interesting I had to read it all. I really enjoyed it when I got into it and found all the interesting changes in it. I think you would enjoy reading it. Just don't decide to quit if you feel it's getting boring. You'll be glad you continued on and finished it.
I read this book because it has been on the shelves of my 7th grade classroom for many years and because I've read maybe one or two other Lois Duncan novels. It's a fine mystery for young people; however, sharp young people will figure out the supposed "twist" very easily. I think the bigger issue is why the twist was needed to begin with. Without saying more, I will recommend this book to my students, but I think I'm done with Lois Duncan books.
Two boys decide to go camping in the mountains for the weekend. But they haven’t come back by Monday and are reported missing on Wednesday. As each day drags out, everyone assumes they are dead, even though no bodies have been found. So, what exactly happened to them? Read it and find out…I really got into the story and couldn’t put it down. One of my speediest reads ever!
This book was good. I liked how the story flowed and it kept me interested until the very end. I have not read any of her other books but I will have to check them out.
I didn't find it very interesting, and it was hard to keep reading
Enjoyed the story, saw the twist that was coming but was unsure of the exact motives until later in the book.
Very interesting book. I thought that it was a cool title and I was rewarded with the exact type of book that I like! Good if you just want a quick read and don't want to start a new series.
Well that just felt lazy.
this story kepted you guessing till the end I normally wouldn't have read one of her story's I'm not much for the mystery mostly horror but this story was worth the read it flowed
it was good.
Quick read! I love books like this, though it took forever to get to the point. It was good overall though!
1st star - As always, I give one star for finishing a book.2nd star - The writing itself, not the plot but the grammar, is good.
I put the book down for an hour or so to do other things, so I'm not really sure.
I'm giving it a fourth star though because the story, despite being a quick read and a relatively small book, was a complete story.
That kind of goes along with liking the story-line, but I've read books where the plot was interesting but the writing was too poorly employed to keep my attention for long.
So I'm giving this book four stars.
I promise you, it is interesting.With her teen thrillers Duncan likes to look at families and relationships and see how they hold up under pressure.
When her boyfriend (Dan) and her brother (Larry) don’t return home from their camping trip things start to fall apart.
I don’t think there’s enough action to be a blockbuster but I do think it would transfer very well to film.The thing I love most about Lois Duncan’s young adult books as that they tackle mature themes without the need for smut or violence or foul language.
The narrative doesn't even take place during the camping trip, mostly just following the missing boys' families as they try to figure out what happened and dealing with their emotions about it.
Occasionally the story skipped over to follow Dave and Lance, two young men sharing an apartment.
two young men with first names starting with the same letters as those of the missing boys, and one of them has amnesia...
Maybe the reader was supposed to figure out the boys' identities fairly soon and just wonder about what the story behind it was.
The first person point of view affects the story because their was some confusing part in the book because we had to uncover the puzzle to the two missing boys what makes this book so interesting because it made me want to find out what really happened to these tow boys.
the reasons i like this part because i think is a really important part in the book where it all goes down after a long time it all comes down to that part of the book when.
I rate this book 4 stars because it was a lil confusing but it was really interesting book to read.
This story begins with the disappearance of two teenage boys who spend a weekend camping in the mountains and never come home.
As Joanie's life if put on the back burner she is confronted with the reality that her brother might have been involved in illegal dealings with a strange man who contacts her because he claims to have been cheated by her brother.
The heart of this story deals with a troubled, manipulating teenage boy who fakes his own death to run from his family and start a new life, a life of drug dealing only it doesn't pan out that way.
Joan’s brother, Larry, and boyfriend, Dan, mysteriously disappear while on a camping trip.
After the search is called off and newspapers release news of their assumed death by drowning, Joan receives a phone call from a stranger who claims her brother owes over two thousand dollars.
There is suspicion that her brother took the money and ran off to start a new life; Joan and Dan’s brother search for clues to find out what really happened.
From the beginning, I suspected that Dave and Lance were actually Dan and Larry simply because that had the same first initial.
Joan's boyfriend, Dan, and her younger brother, Larry, leave for a camping trip that quickly becomes a missing persons' case.
Search party after search party continue to scour the wilderness for signs of either boy, but after months of not finding anything, Dan and Larry are presumed dead.
Paralleled alongside the story of David and Lance Carter, Joan begins to uncover the truth of her missing brother and boyfriend.
I personally thought that this book was well written but very predictable from the way the two stories are contrasted.
They Never Came Home, by Lois Duncan, is about two boys who decide to go camping in the mountains but end up going missing. The sister of one of the boys discovers that they might not really be missing, and that there might be more to the case.  Overall, the story was quite solid. Duncan provided enough information to imagine the settings and the characters. There wasn’t a lot of show not tell, but something that I personally found interesting was how Duncan described the personalities of the ch
They Never Came Home, by Lois Duncan, is about two boys who decide to go camping in the mountains but end up going missing.
There wasn’t a lot of show not tell, but something that I personally found interesting was how Duncan described the personalities of the characters through actions rather than words.
There wasn’t a lot of description about the physical looks of the characters and settings; just enough to get the gist of it.
They Never Came Home is similar to I Know What You Did Last Summer, which is also by Lois Duncan.
