https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/999371.Mr_Gumpy_s_Outing
What a simply sweet (and just oh so gently wonderfully humorously engaging) little sparkling and shining gem is John Burningham's Mr. Gumpy's Outing!
A lovely marriage of evocative text and expressively descriptive images, and yes, Mr. Gumpy's Outing is most definitely a more than worthy recipient of the 1972 Boston Globe-Horn Book Award and very much highly recommended as a fun and wondrous little interlude that I for one wish I had encountered as a child.
I enjoyed Mr. Gumpy's Outing although I'm not sure I thought it was anything particularly stand-out for the awards.
I did have to laugh at myself, though, as my brain kept seeing the word as "gRumpy" on the cover so when I saw the first illustration of the smiling chap I had to do a double-take and saw my mistake ;-) It was a pleasant surprise to find that we went on an outing with someone decidedly un-grumpy!
(I suppose falling out of the boat was one though it ended well.) But, perhaps Mr. Gumpy knew that little children and little animals are just not able to keep still that long and I appreciated that everyone could laugh and enjoy the mishap and a lovely spot of tea.
Then other animals like a rabbit, cat, dog, sheep, calf, chickens, goat and a pig all ask My Gumpy if they can go on the boat too.
Kind Mr Gumpy agrees as long as they do not do what they are known for e.g. bleating, chasing, kicking, mucking about, etc.
At first, the boat ride is calm, until the children squabble!
Before you know it, the boat breaks and the animals all fall into the river.
However, a patient Mr Gumpy decides to walk back and have tea with the animals before bed time.A fabulous read, especially for the early years.
Mr. Gumpy tolerantly cautions each animal one at a time, not to squabble or hop or kick or tease--whatever that animal most characteristically does when it's feeling rambunctious.
The good-natured Mr. Gumpy turns upset into opportunity: all can dry off and have tea together!If you read this aloud, there are plenty of opportunities to introduce new vocabulary and idioms: squabble, bleat, and "muck about"--for example.
As well, there are chances for young children to perform the actions of the animals--say: flapping one's wings or hopping.My only complaint about the book concerns the rather washed-out faded-looking illustrations.
I read this book to children in nursery and they enjoyed it so much.
The children really enjoyed naming all the different animals that were going on the boat.
We read the story by doing a role play where the children had different animal masks and they would enter the boat which we made out of a large cardboard.
The story is about Mr Gumpy who allows all sorts of animals onto his boat and all is going smoothly and then, they all start to do the things he had so asked them not to do and they all end up in the water.
Mr Gumpy lives in a house by the river, and on one sunny day he decides to go for a ride in his boat.
Along the way he picks up a couple of children and various farm animals telling each new traveller that they can come on the boat only if they behave.
Of course eventually they don't and splosh!
Into the water they go, before drying off in the sun and having some tea.A delightful book with colourful sketch styled drawings that really bring it to life.
Perfect for reading to an EYFS class to help them learn about animals.
I could read this a hundred times. Gumpy sets out on an outing and keeps adding additional boaters to his adventure until the inevitable catastrophe occurs and the boat overturns. But it’s not really a catastrophe after all and everyone shakes off the water and promises to come for another outing soon.
This book is about Mr Gumpy taking a boat ride down the river.
As he is about to leave, two children ask if they can join him.
He agrees to them joining him as long as they don’t squabble.
Next a rabbit asks to join Mr Gumpy.
Again he agrees to this as long as the rabbit doesn't hop about.
Various animals ask to join the boat ride.
Mr Gumpy agrees to them all but with the condition they do not do what they are known for.
It is aimed at reception/year 1 children and could be used in maths for counting the animals/people in the boat.
While on the topic of 'Going Places' I read Mr Gumpy's Outing by John Burningham to my reception class.
Mr. Gumpy’s Outing is a light hearted story about Mr.Gumpy going on a boat trip.
The kind Mr. Gumpy then goes to have tea with all of the animals.
Although this story doesn’t have much to it for the adult reader, it can be a useful tool within the classroom in both drama and mathematics.
I would use this book in regards to adding animals, “how many animals will be on the boat when the rabbit gets on?”.
Mr. Gumpy’s Outing is a light hearted story about Mr.Gumpy going on a boat trip.
On the boat he leave a lot of animals get on the board.
However, as the boat moves the noise gets louder and louder and the boat eventually breaks.
The kind Mr. Gumpy then goes to have tea with all of the animals.
I would use this book in regards to adding animals, “how many animals will be on the boat when the rabbit gets on?”.
Children would enjoy doing animal noises for each of the characters.
This story mirrors Mr. Gumpy's Motor Car, but out of the two I prefer this one because of the illustrations. I really like John Burningham's style, and in this book I particularly like how he alternates the pencil sketches with the water colors. I'd love to have my own copy of the book, just for the pictures ...
Short and sweet and with darling illustrations!Ages: 3 - 7**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Summary: Mr. Gumpy has a boat and when he starts to ride off in it new characters ask to join him.
Each time someone new (animals) come he tells them "yes you can ride but don't [hop, muck, tease, etc]" toward the end of the story each of the characters do the bad thing they were told not to do and the boat flips over.
They all have to walk home.
Reflection: I like the story but I'm not crazy about the pictures.
This would be good for little kids to predict with.
This little book seems very old fashioned. The colors of the book did not breathe life into the book. However I did enjoy the story line of the grumpy man taking a ride on a boat and letting others including children, pigs, chicken cats and other animals enjoy the ride with him and he eventually becomes "Mr.Happy." I think children would like this book because of the recognizable characters and the repetition.
Character names are so important to me.
How can you dislike a book where the protagonist is named Gumpy?
Anyway, Mr. Gumpy is a nice man with a boat who is continuously solicited by different animals for a ride in the boat.
He agrees but always asks that the animal not do something inherent to it's nature (the dog can't tease the cat, the pig can't muck about...).
I'm sure you can guess how that goes for him.
The drawings are nice, black and white on the left and in color on the right with a few full color spreads.
I think the write used a good sense of character and voice with this book.
I think this really brought life to the book, which is relatable.
I think that also kind of ties in with voice because when the write is describing certain traits that the animals posses make the writing more human.
Overall I think Mr. Gumpy's Outing was a good book for young readers and an easier read.
I think I could use this to teach how using describing words can really help the characters come to life, which always makes reading for interesting.
On one fine morning, Mr Gumpy decides to go out for a boat ride, but finds children and various difficult animals who want to join him.
Of course, on their journey the animals and the children, could not get along together and ended up falling into the river, along with Mr Gumpy.
My Gumpy invites the children and the animals back to his house for tea.
And then asks them to come back again the following day for another boat ride.
I used this story as their core text in my reception class this week.
Its great to prompt children to ask questions about the text.
Mr Gumpy goes on an outing along the river and picks up various animals on his way that all make noises and move about on the boat which causes it to turn over.
I observed an EYFS assembly based on this book which the children acted out and displayed their knowledge and understanding of the different noises and actions the various animals do.
I think this book would be useful for teaching number orders to young children also as you could allocate a number to each animal and get them to line up in order as you tell the story.
This is an entertaining and repetitive book about a fun boat ride. The story is nonsensical, but the illustrations are very humorous. We enjoyed reading this book together, even though I thought it might be a bit young for our girls.This book was selected as one of the books for the January 2018: Boston Globe - Horn Book PB Winners 1967-1974 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
The story follows Mr Gumpy as he takes a boat trip down the river, along the way he invites a selection of characters onto the boat to enjoy the day with him.
The boat trip ends in mild disaster as they all tip over into the river but the characters are then invited back to Mr Gumpy's house.
The story presents friendship, kindness and patience as its key elements and is wonderfully illustrated throughout.
The story is engaging for children when read aloud and can be used in a variety of activities in literacy, numeracy and art.
This is a brilliant story suitable for young children and early readers.
Mr Grumpy decides to go out in his boat one day, however, everyone wants to come along with him.
Mr Grumpy lets them come with him only if they do not squabble.
For a while they all behave sensibly but not for long as they all start to squabble.
The boat eventually tips over and they all fall into the water.
Soon they reach the bank and dry out in the sun and then set out to have tea.
This book is a great read, especially early years.
Read at family story time on 7/30/11: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Preschool Story Time on 5/4/12: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Pajama Story Time on 8/8/12: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Moms Club Story Time on 6/29/15: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...
I use this in a boat storytime. Mr. Gumpy keeps allowing animals to join him on a boat ride until it tips over. They go back to his place for tea. 1990I used this again for PJ Storytime & it was a huge hit, with the kids & parents. I think the book, might work better than the filmstrip & I might have to consider this a 4.5 or round up to 5 stars.
I had heard a lot about this book, and it was simpler than I had expected. But it definitely is cute and funny! For some reason, I always want to call him "Mr. Grumpy"...... And he reminds me a little of my dad, except if it had been my dad, the book would have ended with spankings instead of a party. !!
I thought this was such a wonderful book. The illustrations were wonderful, so much to see on each page. I loved the description on the cover:...young readers will return again and again to this sprightly story with its clever, captivating illustrations that reflect the sunlit quality of a lazy summer afternoon.
I enjoyed this book as I can envisage reading it with small children, due to the amount of repetition involved in each page. The illustrations are comforting and cleverly drawn so you can really imagine being in the boat with them. In addition, it is easy to predict the ending as everyone knows the boat is likely to tip over. Therefore children can use their imagination to estimate the ending.
I found this a really Class early years read. Dreamy and playfully illustrations, good use of repartition to aid learning, vary accessible to young children being about animals and also playful- everyone likes a bit of slapstick humour! I would recommend this book to everyone.
Excellent book, especially for story time. 1970 Kate Greenaway Medal
An enjoyable children's adventure with Mr. Gumpy, two children, and a group of animals going on a boat ride.
Slight stuff this, but sweet. It's the illustrations that make the book.
