https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192954.The_Towers_of_Trebizond
well, I guess I should have been warned when that one character gets eaten by a shark early on, and not much is made of it - Towers of Trebizond has a fist of cold iron underneath that lovely little glove.Laurie travels like I've traveled: slowly, preferring to really get to know a place in its current incarnation while simultaneously imagining all the lost wonders of what came before.
I suppose it can be a rather melancholy way of traveling, looking at the present but devoting as much time to the contemplation of the past, what has been lost and what can never be seen again.
As a novel we are looking through the mask of young Laurie as she recounts a tale of traveling with her Aunt Dot and a stuffy old Anglican priest, Father Chantry-Pigg, under the goal of scouting out communities along the Black Sea for their promise as targets for Anglican missionary work.
“They must be converted too.From her own wavering conversion, Halide sees a particular lack of fit for the Anglican faith, and she reflects back to Laurie what she already knows on how this goal is not what really drives Dot: They have said to me, ‘The Bible, yes.
“Take my camel,” said my aunt Dot, as she climbed down from the animal on her return from High Mass.First lines.
[You may want to read that first - The Pumpkin Eater - even though it's not written yet, to understand what I'm trying to say.] So, with that confusing preamble, I think this is one of the great Feminist novels.
Even, dare I say it, real life people should read this too.Laurie is traveling with her Aunt Dot (and that camel) and the Dickensian-named Father Chantry-Pigg to the Mid-East, the Crimea (so topical) and Turkey and points beyond.
There's an ape: a chimp, I think, named Suleiman.
So there's an awful lot about religion, because rather than being glad to be shot of the whole useless baggage, Laurie is a bit obsessed with getting back into the fabled city shimmering on a far horizon.
The Towers of Trebizond doesnt seem much from faraway, faraway being 62 years ago. However, the clichés of British eccentricity does tower quite a lot.I admit you would probably find it more entertaining if you are more into the fine art of distinguishing between the branches of the Anglican tree and take a delight in lashing out at the Moslem community and the Billy-Grahamnists for not seeing the true light of the British god. A roman à clef, where crisis of faith and doubts about the moral con

I did like this as I don't want to be told the absolute truth on philosophical concepts.Macauley describes a world that has vanished: a world that sees the British Empire as a dominant force, and that the English will travel, be well versed on the antiquities of the Middle East, but almost totally ignorant of the present (only a 2000 year discrepancy).
This comes as a surprise to the reader, but it sort of explains the very strange ending; which I will admit felt incongruous and about the only truly weak point in the novel (I don't wish to spoil your pleasure & is hinted or discussed in other reviews here).I plan on reading more Macauley as a result of this novel.
In a book quirky, comic, and tragic, a woman travels through Turkey (by camel and jeep) with her adventurous zealous Aunt Dot who, enabled by the Anglican Missions society, has a vision of emancipating Turkish women from their Muslim enslavement by tempting them with the freedoms of the Modern West and the Anglican church (hats, tea parties, education etc.) They are joined by the septuagenarian Father Chantry-Pigg,who dreams of converting Muslim heathens to the warm bosom of Christianity with his High Church relics and simultaneously discovering those long lost Byzantines (Greek; Christian) in the heart of the new secular state of Turkey (Muslim usurpers of Byzantium).
Aunt Dot - doughty adventurer, feminist and staunch Anglican - has joined forces with Father Hugh Chantry-Pigg, the Turkish feminist Dr. Halide and the narrator Laurie, but the odd little group are only loosely united in their belief systems, and soon become unstuck.
It's consistently humorous, but not with the sort of humour that makes you want to laugh.One of the pecularities of the novel is that one is never entirely sure if Laurie - the narrator and protagonist - is male or female.
Thoroughly enjoyed it and think that it is one of those novels that can be read more than once to gain further insight.The story unfolds through the eyes of Laurie as she travels with her eccentric Aunt Dot and the High Anglican Father Hugh Chantry-Pigg.
This novel has a wonderful opening line that sets the tone for the story.
I really enjoyed these eccentric and intrepid travellers along with the camel who has a starring role.
This is more than a travel book and there are some wonderful insights from Laurie.
There are serious themes throughout the novel it's not all "light" reading fare.
Read this humorous, warmly satirical, adventure-travel novel years ago and was just reminded of its pleasures as I began a reread of the authors collection of essays appropriately titled Personal Pleasures.
Certainly high up on that list should be one titled On Rereading of Favorite Books.
If Rose Macaulay were still with us today, her line from the essay Booksellers Catalogues would be a reflection on the pleasures of Good Reads: "To Read these catalogues is like drinking wine in the middle of the morning; it elevates one into that state of felicitous intoxication in which one feels capable of anything.
I must control myself, and not write to booksellers in haste ..." Or, for me, not keep adding to my towering TBR list!!!
I wanted to read this book because it was a humorous fictionalized trip to Turkey (where I've been) on the part of the author, along with her eccentric aunt and a camel.
What could go wrong?Well, this: the book was overloaded with references to esoteric religious references (Anglican, High Church, Low Church, Roman Catholic, etc, etc, etc...) that were mainly meant to show how ridiculous they were.
It's actually pretty horrible and I am not sure why the author chose to do this.I cannot think of any personal acquaintance I'd recommend this book to.
Macaulay writes in that British we're-all-crazy-and-kooky-and-we-think-it's-normal-and don't-realize-it's-actually-hysterical kind of way.
The end, however, is devastating, but made me like the book even more because I didn't realize that I actually cared for Laurie until tragedy struck.
Aunt Dot is convinced that the Muslim women just need to be shown how "backwards" their way of life is (via the Church of England).
This book was written almost 60 years ago and there are still many people in the Western world who think this way!
I definitely recommend this book, especially to those who have been reading more modern novels about women in the Middle East (Three cups of Tea, etc.).
The first chapter or so, in which the family background of Aunt Dot is sent up so hilariously, was an absolute and utter delight. As soon as the group of eccentric Brits begin their tour of Turkey, however, I was put off by the headache-inducing density of the cultural and historical references, and most of all by the superior, smug—indeed, racist—tone of the humor. British satire works best when it pokes at British folks and culture; it quickly becomes odious when outwardly directed.
It is, instead, a personal meditation on religion and love loosely based on a period of time that Rose Macaulay spent in Turkey.
Her love and guilt are recounted with typical English understatement and detachment.
For example, in one episode recounted in the book, she takes on a week-long journey on camel-back to meet up with her lover on the coast of Turkey.
She comes down with a fever during the journey but soldiers on regardless.
Her account of this troubled period in her life is made all the more moving because of her steadfast refusal to pity herself.
Readers looking for insights into Turkey, however, should look elsewhere.
OMG, why is it so rare that this level of wit, erudite comparison and pure exuberance can be filtered into less than 300 (277)pages within the last 50 years?
From the Greeks onwards- definitions of the soul and conscience and our logic over our love.
Reading a few other post reviews after finishing this book, I was rather flummoxed by the level of judgment against Laurie's (no spoiler here) let's say- the mistake or outcome at the very end of the book.
It is in the very nature of being human.
The priest, Father Chantry-Pigg, has in mind to convert Muslims and plant churches; Aunt Dot is focused on studying the plight of Muslim women, hoping that teaching them about the freedom that Christian women have, will cause them to want to become Anglicans.
Laurie, an artist who is Aunt Dot's niece and the narrator of the story, is traveling mainly so that she and her aunt can collaborate on a book about Turkey.
Profound food for thought about the mysteries of being a Christian, intertwine with zany scenes such as Laurie trying to teach an ape to drive, and even worship in church!
This was intriguing on several levels -- it's fairly interesting right there on the surface, and also a great look at the time when it was written, and fun to compare and contrast to what passes for popular literature today.
It's also one of those books that ends up being about something quite different than you suspect: it would appear to be a book about touring around Turkey on a camel, and it turns out to really be about personal moral responsibilities and obligations.Grade: A-Recommended: It's a strangely good book, but it has that unsettling quality that sometimes happens when a book isn't timeless ...
it's very much of its time and reading it involves significant emotional discordance.2008/47
The narrator Laurie and her (her sex is unclear until near the end of the story) aunt Dot, together with her aunt's Anglo-Catholic chaplain Father Hugh Chantry-Pigg, set out for Trebizond, the site of the last Roman empire, with a camel.
They are joined by a Turkish feminist who they hope will help to liberate oppressed Turkish women by converting them to High Anglicanism.They meet interesting people, including other British travellers writing Turkey books, and eventually Laurie's friends go their separate ways, leaving her with the camel, and rather short of cash.
In 1956 author Rose Macaulay published her last novel, a delightfully loopy story of a maiden aunt, her Anglican vicar, her niece the narrator, their mentally disturbed camel and the occasional hangers-on who embark on a trip into the remoter parts of the Middle East in search of ancient architecture and risk incursion into the Soviet Union.
Engaging semi-satire, partly autobiographical, opened up by occasional bursts of grace, and blissfully lacking in "cute." In fact, Macaulay's prose "sells" the story with its deep-down integrity no matter how silly the characters or sillier the circumstances they face.
Not that I believe necessarily in Aunt Dot, but it is much easier to just go along and enjoy her eccentricity.Back to Laurie and my problems with him/her, one thing this book is utterly remarkable about is that how hidden the narrator´s gender is.
Laurie as a character feels more believable if he is a man, and the "sin" which he can not came to terms with his love for another man, a married one at that.
Because as a woman, Vere´s appeal is not quite convincing, as Laurie admits he is selfish, his wife never with him, his marriage no impediment to him spending lots of holiday time with Laurie.
Aunt Dot, who is thought to have been inspired by Dorothy L Sayers, has traveled the world for many years but now finds much of it "spoiled." "Abroad isn't at all what it was." She looked back at the great open spaces of her youth, when one rode one's camel about deserts frequented only by Arabs, camels, flocks of sheep, and Gertrude Bell.The book takes on many aspects of a travel guide as the party, joined in Constantinople (as Father Chantry-Pigg insists on calling it) by a feminist Turkish doctor who converted to Anglicanism during a visit to England, travel along the coast of the Black Sea to Trebizond, once the capital of the Empire of Trebizond (early 13th to mid-15th century.
Aside from the brilliant first line this book had the hardest beginning 15 pages I might have ever read.
Disappointing since the book's premise had such promise.
I know books are subjective but I seriously can't even with the many 5 star reviews of this book.Favorite quotes: "' Have good friends, dear,' she says, ' make to yourself friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, and you'll be all right everywhere.'""And this failure of the Christian Church, of every branch of it in every country, is one of the saddest things that has happened in all the world.
Who could resist this?: "'Take my camel, dear,' said my aunt Dot, as she climbed down from this animal on her return from High Mass." The narrator, Laurie, goes to Turkey with her aunt Dot and Father Chantry-Pigg to try to establish an Anglican mission.
It's as funny as you might expect, and the travel passages are excellent; I particularly liked Macaulay's gift for lyrical descriptions: "And I dreamed of sea winds whispering in rustling grass and asphodel among the fallen columns of Ilium and over the grave of Priam's Troy...." There are also some interesting ruminations on religion, cultural differences, and love, as we learn more about the narrator's personal life throughout the book.
This book improved noticeably once Aunt Dot and Father Chantrey-Pigg move off center stage.
Halide, the Turkish doctor, interested be greatly, and I'd love to hear the story retold from her point of view.
She is or wants to be religious but confesses and demonstrates that she has no clear sense of right or wrong to call her own.
I enjoyed some of her observations but she ended up annoying me, and I could not care less about the (forced and moralistic) ending of the book.
Recommended only to unwavering Anglophiles.
What a quintessential mid-century novel; I found the cadences quite Hemingway-esque; the narrator even fly fishes which cracked me up.Towers is also very much a "literary" novel, yet despite that is also accessible -- Macaulay never slips over the line from literary into experimental -- if you prefer contemporary pop fiction you won't care for it but if you appreciate the classics at all you will not find this a difficult read by any stretch.
I enjoyed every minute of the book.
Laughed out loud many times.
I enjoyed this, but found it lacking in spark. I don't imagine Rose Macaulay herself ever being very excited about it. "Oh ... it's just this thing ... about the Church of England ... camels ... Turkey ... there's a bit of tragedy ... to be honest, I can't be bothered to explain it."
Dame Rose Macaulay's The Towers of Trebizond is a highly eccentric novel set mostly in Turkey and the Holy Land.
Yet, though for ever reeling, the towers do not fall: they seem held in some strong enchantment, some luminous spell, fixed for ever in the imagination, the gleaming, infrangible, so improbable as to be all but impossible, walled kingdom of the infrangible God.At the end, a strange accident occurs which sets the ending off on an altogether different track than the rest of the novel -- one that is surprisingly somber.Still, for over 95% of its length, The Towers of Trebizond is a delightful book.
Macaulay, Rose (1881-1958). THE TOWERS OF TREBIZOND. (1956) *****. This was one of those novels that I had heard about, but never got around to reading. It’s back in print in a New York Review of Books edition, and well worth the read. Rose was a well-known writer and social figure in England – though less so in the U.S. – in her day. She was the author of thirty-five books, twenty-three of them novels. This novel was her last, published only two years before her death. She was related to Lord M
Rose was a well-known writer and social figure in England – though less so in the U.S.
The first half of the book is dominated by the Aunt, Dorothea ffoulkes-Corbett, who manages to bully her way through most of the existing red tape normally encountered in East Asian countries.
Later in the book, Aunt Dot and the clergyman disappear over the frontier between Turkey and Russia, sparking an international incident that effectively removes them from the plot for a long time, but which sheds a lot of light on their respective personalities.
Tedious government officials and secular inclusion-ism be damned,this band of snooty Brits is off to convert those rascally irrational Muslim Turks to the One True Faith, and so they grab their Superior White Camel, several copies of the Bible and of course their fishing poles, and head off to establish missions, sell the Muslim women on Christ and the freedoms of hat-wearing, and write their Turkey Book.
(Yes I just said that.) She was so entrancing that she put me completely in the head of a narrator who couldn't see what was right in front of her.
It did have some interesting thoughts, mainly on religions – I like reading about religions – and the depictions of the sleepy Trebizond, or Trabzon rather (btw, it’s awesome how this name alone conjures up a lot of images, and how it exists in so many languages – it’s “Trapezunt” in Polish) were poetic and evocative, but most of it felt like idly musings of a person too well off – and too well-bred – to be anything else than disconnected from all the world.“Then, I thought, the Church is like a great empire on its way out, that holds its subjects by poetic force, its fantastic beauty heightened by insecurity; one sees it at times like a Desiderion fantasy of pinnacles and towers, luminous with unearthly light, rocking on their foundations as if about to crash ruining in decadence and disaster into the dark sea that steals up, already lapping and whispering at the marble quays.
