https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32446.The_Door_to_December
The idea that autism is created by neglect or abuse on a parents part ie: the "refrigerator mother" theory developed by Bruno Bettelheim was discredited many years ago.
It is offensive to take a child of abuse and neglect and intersperse autism in with her state of being, I don't care that you are writing a horror or occult novel or whatever you would like to categorize this as.
One of the many reasons puzzle pieces are used as symbol to represent the disorder.Highly unlikely I will ever read another Koontz novel.
Another worthless Dean Koontz novel full of the usual Koontz crimes against writing: awful dialogue, characters with no complexity, and a "surprise" ending that I knew was coming on page 30 of this over 500 page novel.This is supposedly a mystery/suspense story focusing on the efforts of police officer Dan Haldane to unravel a weird case that revolves around forced sensory deprivation of a nine year old girl.
As usual in the Koontz formula, Haldane falls in love with the girl's mother and there is a ridiculous romantic subplot in addition to the asinine regular plot.
Lucky me for picking this to just read for the month of October and realizing as I read that most of the book takes place during thunderstorms/rain and the opening scene the main character (Laura) who arrives at a crime scene in the middle of the night during a torrential downpour.
I also just realized that Koontz always seems to have his characters going to and fro while it is raining outside.I read this book years ago in my 20s.
With all the attention focused on a traumatized little girl and little (if any ) focused on Koontz whining about how much he hates modern society or Hollywood, makes this book a winner.Characters: Here they are alright, but still somewhat cookie-cutter.
I read the book only a month or two ago and I've already forgotten the psychiatrist's name (she was one of the main characters, so that's really not good).
It's a great plot, in my opinion, with mystery, a good smattering of action, and hints of sci-fi, just like Lightning.Climax: Actually pretty bad, which was a surprise but not a big surprise with Koontz.
This really comes across in the way characters, like Laura, overthink to themselves.
Oh my, this has to be my favorite book from Dean Koontz. There is something about the Author, that he can delve into the thriller realm and just suck you in, and freak you out with every turn of the page.I loved how descriptive he was when writing this book. I had many a sleepless night when reading this, but I couldn't seem to put it down, no matter how hard I tried.This will always remain at the top of my list forever; Unless he comes out with something even better!Move over Stephen King, you have been dethroned!
This is an old and rather obscure Koontz novel, originally published in 1985 under a pseudonym.It's a pretty basic feature: Laura McCaffrey is reconciled with her daughter, whom her father kidnapped six years earlier.
Police officer Dan Haldane rushes to help Laura and Melanie, hoping it is not too late...The premise is intriguing enough to pull the whole thing off, though the novel suffers from predictability.
His style is very descriptive and easy to read, the plot good enough to follow, which makes The Door to December an extended Twilight Zone episode.
It borrows too much from Koontz's previous works to be truly notable, but it's not bad; good reading for your morning commute.
Nobody was dissing autistic kids, remember folks he's a writer and a dam good one, he's not out there to put people down, I am a mother with two autistic children plus myself I carry the gene, people say to me all the time your full of shit when it's a known fact DNA approved that its what we were granted, being autistic myself I didn't feel the least bit offended at all and I think people are all too sensitive to this so called autism!
I liked Mr. Murder better, but this one is quite intriguing. Dean Koontz has penned tales of a similar theme in Cold Fire and Brother Odd, both of which I enjoyed immensely. I loved Dan Haldane, a character of witty humor. The Door to December was originally published under a pen name in 1985.We'll plunge into darkness,into the hands of harm,when Science and the Devilgo walking arm in arm.-as quoted in The Door to December
Between the two of them, along with a private investigator they figure out what's been happening to Melanie and why people keep dying that are somehow related to this secret experiment.There were some very odd things that really took me out of the story while reading it:- The book has a very dated view on autism.
The first time autism is mentioned, it immediately made me look to see when the book was written since it was so out of place.- Haldane is obsessed with Laura's beauty right away.
This book was filled with clichés and insults to autism.
The clichés were enough to insult everybody's intelligence already so the interchangeable use of the terms "cationic" and "autistic" tipped this over the edge enough to earn negative stars if it were possible.
Yes, I get how at the time this book was written there wasn't a lot of study on autism but that doesn't mean it's fair game to make stuff up about a very real condition.
This book was very predictable and easy to figure out within the first few chapters.
The storyline had a lot of half baked dead ends.
i did not like this book at all. this was my first Dean Koontz novel, and i must say after this book i don't think that i will be reading his work again. his writing style comes off as cheesy and long winded. and this particular story i found to be... silly.  i suppose it just wasn't my type of book...
Eerie, suspenseful and well-written, The Door to December is one of my favorite Dean Koontz novels lately and its originality never lets up. It's a really creative book and well worth reading, especially if you're a fan of horror or thriller novels.
Another great Koontz book, especially the characters. They really shine throughout, although the middle dragged out a bit longer than I was hoping for. Still, the ending is great and it's another world created I wish he'd explore again in the future.
I knew how this was going to end less than 100 pages in.
Still, I tried to forgive it that because I was enjoying the story.I was disturbed and annoyed by the "autism" stuff.
Not only that but autism is basically a fancy name for catatonia, I guess.
Even still, I could overlook that due to the book's age.Then the ending to Door to December is basically like, "THEN WE GAVE HER A HUG AND EVERYBODY LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER."Ummmmm NO.
That is NOT how you end a book.
Anyway, before all that garbage I was actually enjoying this story and its writing.
He is investigating all the murders that start happening after Melanie is found in the streets and her father is found dead.
When her father kidnaps Melanie at age 3, Laura looks everywhere for her.
Laura gets a call telling her that her daughter has been found and that Melanie’s father has found dead along with another unidentified man.
Laura looks through the house with Lieutenant Haldane.
By going through Melanie’s father’s notes, Laura finds that they did experiments on Melanie using the equipment in the gray room.
Lieutenant Haldane thinks that he was going to try and kill Melanie.
Nonetheless, for the reader (me) it was unnecessary; could have been executed better.Dean Koontz, like Stephen King, spends considerable time developing his characters, and more so than many in this kind of mainstream fiction.
But it annoys me that Koontz feels a need to pour syrup on top of it all--so we end up with clicheed relations (of course Dan falls in love with Laura, and of course he is such a good spotter of character that he can see their flaws at a distance, even if he's never met them before).
This is one of Koontz' earlier novels and it is full of the same fire and excitement as those early books.
Melanie is a nine-year-old girl who was abducted by her own father when she was three.
The men with her father have been brutally killed and her mother Janet, a detective, Dan Haldane and Earl, from a security agency are doing their best to keep the girl from encountering the same fate.
Dan is committed to keeping the mother and daughter safe, no matter what.
Suspense continually mounts as in most Koontz novels and the answers seem to be something the reader can't imagine.
I read The Door to December by Richard Paige (Dean Koontz) in order to see how Koontz's writing style has changed over the years (and also to see if he varied his plot-lines more 'back in the day.' Thankfully he did.).
Written in 1985, this tells the story of Laura McCaffrey, a woman whose child was abducted six years earlier, by her ex-partner.When the ex is found murdered, Laura is called by the police, and shortly after that a girl is found wandering naked in the street.
I've never read Dean Koontz before so I didn't know quite what to expect.
This book was SOOOOO predictable.
I had figured out the "twist" ending in the first 50 pages and had to read the next 450 pages for my hunch to be confirmed.
In fact, most of the plot twists were similarly predictable.
Not sure who this book was aimed at, but my guess is either bored middle-aged housewives, or teenage boys.
I guess this is an okay read if you're stuck on an airplane or need to kill some time, but otherwise you'd be better off looking elsewhere for entertainment.
It's not bad Koontz, It's not good Koontz.It's not well written, it's not badly writtenIt's not fun, it's not boring It isn't that long, It isn't too shortMale cop hero?
Strong female lead?
Abused child?
Experiments gone awry?
Check.
Check.
Check.
Check.
Wacky character names?
Check (Ned Rink?
Really?)This is the Koontz checklist and he hits them all.
Like I said, this isn't modern-day bad Koontz but it isn't classic era Koontz either (Twilight Eyes, The Voice of the Night, etc..) Take a grape.
Now roll it across the floor.
That action has the same amount of impact on me as this novel.
Pretty well written, typical Dean Koontz style.
I was able to predict the ending about 60 percent of the way through, but that didn't ruin the book for me at all.
Dated in its views on autism and the technology, but overall a very fast, engaging read!As an aside: For those who have written reviews lambasting the author for his uninformed view on autism in this nearly-30-year-old book: get a grip, please.
But if that IS the case, might I suggest using NONFICTION and that is from the last five years?
The fact that some have gotten so offended as to leave a one-star review is indicative of a hey-I'm-searching-for-things-to-offend-me mentality.For shame.
Unabridged audio. Perhaps it was the reading, but I didn't like this as much as most of Koontz's books. After her husband is found brutally murdered, a mother recovers her young daughter, who was kidnapped by her father and subjected to experiments. Mysterious murders and inexplicable happenings. OK at best.
Another supernatural thriller from Koontz that kept me interested from start to finish. Very well done. An excellent read.
Another brilliant story line, interesting and plausible, and a few more pages of waffle.
Not too bad, but they take the edge off the story, and it comes across as less horrific than the author is trying to portray.
Unfortunately, the main female character, Dr. Laura McCaffrey, who specialises in child psychology (at least that's the story), has so many glaringly obvious flaws for someone whose speciality is child psychology.
You're left wondering what happens between the two main characters, if the child recovers, and if the 'psychogeist' comes back to finish the job.?
Lieutenant Haldane is a character who you are rooting for the entire time, and he is by far the best character out of the book.
Although you have characters you love and a mysterious entity you don't quite understand, there are also characters you abhor, and in some instances you're rooting for the invisible being as it takes lives.
This book was released in 1985 and Koontz talks about a child with autism; however the child does not in fact have autism.
This is when little was truly known about autism.
Ed Gorman and Dean Koontz (close personal friends, each referring to the other as the greatest living writer in their genre) are my favorite (living)fiction authors.
Since leaving IA, I haven't been able to find any Gorman books I haven't' read.
As I have written elsewhere and more than once: none of us can ever save himself; we are instruments of one another's salvation, and only by the hope that we give to others do we lift ourselves out of the darkness into light."Reading other reviews it's probably safe to say, if your a Koontz fan already, you'll likely enjoy it.
But she was too good a psychiatrist to allow herself to indulge in any of the little mind games that would minimize this bizarre development; nor would she permit herself to rationalize it away with the standard jargon of her profession.
This paranormal episode - this supernatural phenomenon - couldn't be explained away as just sensory confusion, either; her perceptions had been accurate and reliable in spite of the impossibility of what she had perceived.
A little girl named Melanie is kidnapped by her abusive father and has gone missing for several years, in the present day she is found wandering the streets of L.A. by the police.
She is reunited with her mother Laura, but Melanie has changed since Laura last saw her, she seems to be in some trance with blank eyes.
With the help of an L.A police detective, they try to get Melanie to help them solve the mystery of a deadly scene the city has ever seen, and they must also protect themselves from it.I remember when I read this book, because of the title and I read it in the month of December.
Afterword by the author, delving into the use of pseudonyms. It is Koontz' belief that writers of literary fiction consider the publication of a work that satisfies the audience is ad hoc proof that said work is utterly worthless (p. 514). "Door" was originally published in June 1985 under "Tivhstf Paige".Ten protagonists systematically killed by Melanie's astral being spirit entity. After completion, Melanie's astral being will then kill her physical presence. She is saved by Dan, a good guy cop.
Even though I sort of saw the ending coming from a mile away, which is one of the main complaints I read in the reviews of this novel, I still thought it was absolutely fantastic.
The fact that I wanted to keep reading, even knowing what direction it was heading, is just a testament to the fantastic story-telling ability that Dean Koontz has and his total command over this genre.
Finding out all the little details along the way and not wanting to put the book down until I understood all the little factors and how they fit together made it a definite must-read!
