https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210825.The_Reivers
"Borrow", not steal, Lucius's grandfather's renowned, Winton Flyer automobile, one of the first two, in the area, for a fun visit to vibrant, dynamic, Memphis, Tennessee, only eighty miles distance, from quiet Yoknapatawpha County, where the prosperous Priest family resides.
The conspirators, carefully make sure, nobody sees the thief, the plan begins, though, inauspiciously, when Ned McCaslin, a black man who works for the family in the livery stable ( an unstated cousin), as does Boon, is soon discovered hiding in the backseat of the Winton Flyer.
The Reivers: William Faulkner's Final GiftThis novel was a group read for members of On the Southern Literary Trail in January, 2013. William Faulkner, The last dust-jacket photo. Reviewer's copy. "Your outside is just what you live in, sleep in, and has little connection with who you are and even less with what you do.”  The Reivers is a Grandfather tale. So I beg the reader's patience while I write about my own Grandfather a bit. It is a Grandson's tale. There is a point to it.Any boy who ever
Over the years it became my tradition to give each of them books for holidays or what I call "Happy for the Hell of Its." They gave them to me, too.As far as I know, my grandfather never read William Faulkner.
But I think my grandfather would have liked "The Reivers." It doesn't skip around.
Grandfather's 1905 Winton Flyer as shown in Mark Rydell's 1969 film "The Reivers"When William Faulkner published The Mansion in 1959, he told Random House it would be his last book.
I knew too much, had seen too much, I was a child no longer now; innocence and childhood were forever lost, forever gone from me.” Lucius Priest is almost proud of his innocence, an innocence that is easy to maintain as long as he stays in Yoknapatawpha County Mississippi, but when two family retainers by the name of Boon Hogganbeck and Ned McCaslin decide to go on an adventure and convince him to be a part of their ludicrous scheme his veil of innocence, in short order, is in tatters.
"Sometimes you have to say goodbye to the things you know and hello to the things you don't!"I confess I knew what to expect before starting the book and was really looking forward to reading the text the 1969 movie was based on.
The quote above is from this Steve McQueen movie, one of my all-time favorites despite McQueen's apparent disappointment in his role.The book surpassed my expectations.
Yet there is hope, as Faulkner probably intended to stress, in the respect for a traditional set of values.The novel is the last published by the author and it won a Pulitzer prize.

It doesn't have much to do with the story's plot, but is an example of getting sidelined while telling a story.In the following excerpt the story's narrator is comparing the intelligence of the rat, cat, dog, mule and horse:A mule which will gallop for a half-mile in the single direction elected by its rider even one time, becomes a neighborhood legend; one that will do it consistently time after time is an incredible phenomenon.
I want to read so much more and see more Faulkner women.The young---of body (Lucius) or mind (Boon) certainly led us on a wonderful chase but without the wiles of Ned (the fool?) there would have been no real fun.So Shakespearean!And now on to my review!My second Faulkner in a few months and this was really a delightful experience; not an easy read as Faulkner never really is, but full of fun, youthful (and not so youthful) escapades, wily tricksters, potential evil villains and the final test--the horse race for everything.The story centers on a car.
Eine humorvoll- ernste Geschichte aus den „guten alten Zeiten“ in den Südstaaten- mit einem Auto, einem Pferd und einem Goldzahn. Zeit, mal wieder Mark Twain zu lesen...
Cuốn sách hài hước và duyên dáng nhất của William Faulkner mà mình đọc.
That phrase "Hijinks ensue" tells you everything you need to know.JI: I don't see where you're going here.WF: I'm talking about my novels.
I thought I had something with "As I lay Dying": "A cuckold goes to bury his dead wife with her wildly oversexed and/or neurotic children, hijinks ensue", but it doesn't quite fit somehow.JI: Wasn't that the one about the enslavement and destruction of a man's children in the service of his narrow-minded vanity?
You need to get this hijinks thing out of your head and play to your strengths.WF: No James, I've made up my mind and I'm determined.
I'm going to write a novel where hijinks ensue.
I am annoyed - a bad end to a bad book.
Wordy, confusing and boring.
Those are the three adjectives I would use to describe this book.
Someone should count how many times "or" is found in this book.
Faulkner begins with an oblique statement, and then it is repeated umpteen times with other words so that the meaning is hammered into the reader.
Yet the story is so innocent, the message so cute.
Honestly, I think the book is more appropriate for kids.
Mayer was easy to follow, yet I detested his intonation of Ned McCaslin's "hee-hee-hee".
Lucius's tale from his younger years turns out to be the ultimate road trip/coming of age tale, the trip being taken in that car.Being Faulkner, it is also an account of the ambiguities of good and evil along with yet another rendition of the intricate balance between whites and blacks in the South before Civil Rights changed things.I guess it helped that I had read all those earlier novels but I found this one the most readable of all.Favorite quote from page 52 of the 1962 first printing (yes, my library still has a first printing edition):"So you see what I mean about virtue?
Hung on the wall, it could have been his epitaph, like a Bertillon chart or a police poster; any cop in north Mississippi would have arrested him out of any crowd after merely reading the date.So, instead it is the reminiscence of a man who is now a grandfather, (probably telling his grandson) of events in 1905 when he was eleven years old.
It isn't just Boon and Lucius on this trip, but also Ned, a negro employee of Lucius' own grandfather, has stowed away.
I have enjoyed my time spent with other Faulkner titles, but this finally convinced me I would like to read everything.
The following year, it won a Pulitzer, yet it is one of his least-known works.
I am convinced this is the novel with which to introduce readers to Faulkner.
It is set in the fictitious Yoknapatawpha County that is the setting of several of his novels, a landscape with a rich geneaology of characters.For his last novel, Faulker wrote a delightful coming-of-age "reminiscence" set in 1905 - funny, wise, and wistful in tone, with some excellent characters.
The prose is distinctly Faulknerian yet more linear and accessible than some of the bigger works from which Faulkner earns his more intimidating reputation.
آخرین رمان فاکنر بزرگ که بر خلاف اکثر آثارش به شکل خطی و با یک راوی روایت میشه. داستان ورود اولین اتومبیل به یوکناپاتافا کانتی و ماجراجویی سه شخصیت اصلی داستان با این اتومبیل هستش. کتاب بسیار خوبی بود که حسن ختامی خوب برای زندگی هنری فاکنره، هرچند با بهترین آثارش ینی خشم و هیاهو، گور به گور، روشنیهای ماه اوت و آبشالوم آبشالوم قابل قیاس نیست. البته نه به این دلیل که کتاب سطح پایینیه، بلکه اونای دیگه خیلی خیلی خوب هستن. در کل راضی بودم ازش
Sometimes you want to read a book with grand theft auto, a horse race, prostitutes, sardines, a gold tooth, and a fight with a lawman, but then you think, "What will my hoity-toity friends think if I read a book like that?"You can read this book. It's got all that stuff, and it's a Faulkner book, so your hoity-toity friends can't say anything.
The former rector of our church recently died.
She was a longtime William Faulkner lover and just couldn't stand the thought that she had read all his books.
So she saved this one--his last, written in 1962 and a winner of the Pulitzer Prize--to read (or have read to her) on her deathbed, whenever that day came.
Tragically, she died suddenly of a heart attack and never got to read it.
A few of us at our church are reading it "for her." And she would have loved this book!
This book is unlike other Faulkner books.
The moral: Don't save books for later.
If you really want to read something, do it.
The first 50+ pages was like listening to someone tell a story with so many tangents and sentences so long that I forget where it was even headed to being with.
The only reason I can see this won a Pulitzer is because of the year it was published and the racial commentary (not a main theme, but prevalent).
If the same book were published now (by an unknown), I don't think it would garner so much as a nod.
I started skimming with 50 pages to go, not really caring much about the outcome.
This book is definitely not for me.
I find it interesting so many people found this book incomprehensible.
This easily the *most* comprehensible of any of Faulkner's writings.
It's also the most likable, the most charming, and the only one of his books I can say I honestly enjoyed all the way through.
Here, we actually find a cast of primarily likable characters whose adventures are all the more engaging and funny for the fact that their very ridiculousness makes them seem possible.
I'm glad I stuck with Faulkner long enough to read this one.
I have always found Faulkner difficult reading, a chore if you will.This was a bookclub read, so I tackled it with grace and found to my surprise it was a fun read. I consider The Reivers to be Faulkner at his most entertaining. Unburdened by the need to address the darker symptoms of the human condition, he is free to let his imagination run wild and the novel has a great deal of charm.
the innocence and the ignorance: I not only didn't have strength and knowledge, I didn't even have time enough."(p 55) Later in their adventures, after Ned has traded the stolen car for a race horse, Lucius reflects further, "It was too late.
I was a child no longer now; innocence and childhood were forever lost, forever gone from me."(p 175)The novel is not all serious moments of reflection like these; for there is the excitement of the horse races, Lucius' friendship with the Corrie, the prostitute, and his experience with the negro old Possum and his family.
You can see this in many places in Faulkner (e.g., in Barn Burning, in Intruder In The Dust, and of course in The Sound & The Fury).
The Reivers is told through the eyes of Lucius Priest, and Faulkner nails it.
The Reivers also features one of Faulkner's lovable, intelligent, and wise black characters, in this case Ned. He's reminiscent of Lucas in Intruder in the Dust, and of Sam Fathers in The Bear.
Present from The Bear we have the abysmal marksman, Boon Hogganbeck, one of the main characters of The Reivers.
If you don’t want to bother with my ramblings, just skip to the last paragraph for my opinion of the book :-)I live in Europe, and several times in the past when someone discovered I was (and still am) an American, they might go on to talk about some American author and what did I think about him or her.
And IF that’s what it is (a stream), then what the h— was I doing re-reading anything?
Really, really loving it.The Reivers is a fantastic story, the writing is like nothing I’ve ever seen (probably it wouldn’t get past the editors today) and the story transported me to the old south.
I had some trouble to fight my way through this novel.The story is actually quite interesting and amusing: The three heroes, 11 yo Lucius, Boon Hogganbeck and "Uncle" Ned pilfer the car of Lucius' grandfather and want to travel for four days to the "big city".
I generally have no problem with long sentences, as long as they come along harmonically/melodically and do not disturb my flow of reading.
THE REIVERS is the last novel by William Faulkner and also the first one I've read.
After reading I'm not sure if I want to deal with more of Faulkner's works in the near future.
This is Faulkner's most accessible novel - a Huck Finn style coming of age story that is fun, exciting, and subtle in its commentary on race and manhood.
Suffice to say it was enjoyable and I was particularly impressed with Faulkner's treatment of race - which was significantly more subtle than in past novels - particularly the noble characters of Ned and Uncle Parshum.
However, overall, I was less impressed with this than other Faulkner novels - not because it was more accessible, but rather because I just never really connected with it in the same way that I did with Absalom, Absalom!
Faulkner went back to his roots with the last book of his life. The classic dysfunctional group/family goes on a ill advised journey to somewhere they never should've gone. I love "As I Lay Dying" and this book brought me back to that so much. A young boy comes of age in a humorous and unlikely setting while being shaped by some memorable characters.
A kinder, gentler Faulkner.
It started off rather strong and comically with quite the memorable cast of characters, but the pace seemed kind of uneven about halfway through and the ending wrapped things up a little too neatly for my personal tastes.You still get such wonderful passages as this as they are preparing to drag an automobile through a muddy patch of road, which seems intentionally kept impassable just so the man with the mules can charge to help the few motorists that existed at that time:There was something dreamlike about it.
Quiero decir que es un libro que capta la atención y lo mantiene a uno al filo del asiento con cada nuevo acontecimiento, cuando uno cree que las cosas se solucionan pasa lo peor... También quiero aclarar que siento que el niño de once años que roba el coche de su abuelo ( cómo lo promete la sinopsis) no lo sentí como que el lo roba sino que se encuentra envuelto en la situación y que sólo debe continuar, aunque se arrepienta a cada momento.
This book by William Faulkner won the Pulitzer Prize in 1963. The story is similar to a Huck Finn adventure when automobiles were first manufactured. The writing was a bit slow in progressing the story and the adventure was a bit improbable. However, I really liked the ending. I give this book 4 stars.
