https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73188.The_Cross_of_Christ
Although it’s only been around 25 years since first published, The Cross of Christ has already been recognized as a Christian classic.
It was on my list of Christian classic to-reads, along with older authors as Athanasius, Augustine, and Luther.Like a skilled jeweler carefully examining and detailing the many facets of a gem, John Stott goes the cross and carefully inspects, details, and elaborates the many facets of the cross of Christ.
It is hard to overstate how much I enjoyed this book. It was hard work, shouldering through the dense material (which I started on August 18). It's not impossible reading, but it does requires careful thought. Stott shows the significance of the cross and why certain doctrines are important, and he outlines many implications stemming from those doctrines. Lots of brilliant insights.See more comments here.
64)Ch. 3: LOOKING BELOW THE SURFACE"Christ died for us, for our good; that the 'good' he died to procure for us was our salvation; that in order to procure it he has to deal with our sins; and that in dying for them it was our death that he died." (pg.
When, on the other hand, we have glimpsed the blinding glory of the holiness of God and have been so convicted of our sin by the Holy Spirit that we tremble before God and acknowledge what we are, namely 'hell-deserving sinners,' then and only then doe the necessity of the cross appear so obvious that we are astonished we never saw it before." (pg.
Stott’s seminal work has been reprinted on its twentieth anniversary. Within these pages, Stott surveys the cross of Christ with clarity and aplomb scarcely found in such examinations. Not only does Stott trace the Biblical teaching on the cross, he also addresses common criticisms and controversial views, revealing the truth behind the work Jesus accomplished through His death. Though it reads long in places, careful meditation on Stott’s work is not only helpful, but eagerly recommended.
And we've discussed some pretty significant books by the likes of Augustine, Pascal, Calvin, Kierkegaard, Barth, and others!I think what marks this book by John Stott, that I first read when published nearly 30 years ago, is a combination of theological clarity and pastoral application that help one deeply root one's understanding of the work of Christ on the cross not only in belief but in Christian devotion and practice.The book consists of four sections.
Robert Lightner writes that “this volume takes its place among the classics on the subject of the death of Christ.” Peter Wilkinson, an advocate of the emergent church, writes of the work, “Stott sounds like a trumpet call from a bygone era - except that many, like myself, would probably think that the trumpet call needs to be heard just as much today as it was when the book was first published in 1986.”The genius in Stott’s masterpiece which continues on today is his marvelous integration of a survey of biblical texts, a deep evaluation of the theology of the cross, and the practical implications for the lives of those who read this book.
Stott also comprehensively shows our need for forgiveness through satisfying God's justice and holiness.
It is in this third section that Stott clearly explains these four key terms and how the Cross works by giving us victory through the blood of Christ.
Stott is also firmly rooted in Paul when discussing penal substitution and being justified by faith, in Christ.
Stott seems to stay firmly rooted in orthodoxy throughout most of the book.
This is the best work on the meaning of the Cross that I have ever read.
He is extremely well-read and I will probably use this book as a reference for the variety of topics that he covers.His description of what Christ (God) accomplished on the cross--the different aspects and why each of them is vital--is probably one of the best that I've read.
Basically, he takes some very big ideas, breaks them down into understandable terms, and shows why understanding them in light of the cross is important.He starts out looking at how we approach the cross; then shows the importance of the cross--note that the point of the book, highlighted in these chapters, is the substitutionary atonement of the cross (the self-substitution of God); continues with what the cross accomplished; and ends with how we respond to and live in light of the cross.It's a thick book and I would take some time to tackle it if you're going to dig in.
Here goes...If you are someone who has been introduced to Christ for the first time, this book may not be the first book you'll want to read.
I don't believe that God opens our eyes to that deep of an understanding of the reality of Christ's suffering until later in our Christian life.
I think it is more likely that God first lays the groundwork for us to understand His mercy and grace in our lives so that later He can open our hearts gradually to an awareness of the deep and intimate reality of how His grace and mercy came about...through Christ crucified.
Very fine book. I have read Stott over the years, and have always enjoyed him, but I decided to read this (listen to it on audio, rather) after he went to be the Lord. Very helpful, in a lot of ways.
Stott spends his time in the first half of the book setting up the theological arguments for the crucifixion, and he takes his time.
In fact, go get your pencil and a notebook and take your time.Then in the second half Stott shifts to speaking pastorally and begins drawing  implications of the cross on our lives, his logic and rhetoric are amazing.
The way he speaks and the subjects he speaks to are incredibly relevant to the church today and his centrality of the cross in the Christian faith is marvelously necessary for us.This is a book I will read and read again.
Get your highlighters, grab a pencil, get a notebook, and get to work.
Stop reading this review, and go read this book.
A rigorous defence of the glorious truth that Christ died for us on the Cross for our salvation.
I can see why so many people list this as a Christian classic. I did it as an audiobook, but would love a copy for my shelf. There is much in here worth returning to.
Lastly, he displays the effects of the cross on our lives: as the foundation of the Church, as the supreme event by which our knowledge and actions are to be guided, as the premiere example of loving our enemies, and as a touchstone of strength for our life in this present age of suffering and persecution (showing how God’s victory over Satan looked, at the time, like Satan’s victory over Him).Throughout each section, he examines other theories of the significance of the atonement from the Early Church to the present day, carefully critiquing their oversights and shortcomings in light of Scripture, while at the same time attempting to portray their proponents in as charitable a light as possible and emphasizing the kernels of biblical truth that they contain, even in misinterpretation.
An extremely thorough discussion of, well, the cross of Christ--its purpose, its theological significance, its results, and the ultimate effect it has on our daily lives.
The book is a bit dry at times, and certainly rather dense, but there's more than enough richness of content to make up for the less-than-sparkling prose.I particularly enjoyed Stott's discussion of the substitutionary nature of the cross.
Stott is careful to note that while we experience each of these aspects of salvation, they are all built on the foundation of self-satisfaction through self-substitution.
In this work Stott interacts with a great deal of authors who write on various perspectives of Christology, and the atonement.
If we speak only of Christ suffering and dying, we overlook the initiative of the Father.
If we speak only of God suffering and dying, we overlook the mediation of the Son. The New Testament authors never attribute the atonement either to Christ in such a way as to disassociate him from the Father, or to God in such a way as to dispense with Christ, but rather to God and Christ, or to God acting in and through Christ with his whole-hearted concurrence." - Page 156
I don’t even know where to start with this book.
This constantly allows the reader to know where he is coming from and how it’s applicable to a Christian’s faith.
It’s hard to rate this book based on its literary technique because it is like reading a test book.
However, since it is based on scripture so it makes an impact.
If you’re a Christian who is serious about your faith than I would almost say this book is a necessity.
And for an unchristian, you will find it a long read, but great starting point if you’re interested in the core of the Christian faith.
This book has a well-deserved reputation as Stott's best work, and as a modern classic in theology.
He does so in a way that defends substitutionary views from distortions and common critiques (ie God as either cosmic sadist, unjust, or passive in the face of evil), and paints a picture of God as both a righteous judge and the one who justifies.
The heart of the book is Stott's exploration of the different biblical metaphors of the atonement.
He goes through each in its biblical and historical context, and paints a very helpful picture of what each contributes to a full understanding of atonement.
He quotes extensively from other writers and I felt that I was getting the best of the best without having to read 100 books.
This was especially the case in the first chapter on the centrality of the cross where he tries to make a case that the Bible intended the cross to be a tangible symbol of Christianity.
I think the Bible purposely leaves us without a tangible symbol, so that we won't be tempted to worship it, but instead gives us events to commemorate what Christ did for us: baptism and the Lord's supper.
This book was very thorough and theologically deep. John Stott covered more aspects of the cross of Christ than I ever thought possible. It is well worth the read for anyone interested in theological matters. Evangelical Christians (particularly those considering themselves to be "thinkers") would do well to read this book again due to how much information is presented in it. A one-time reading of this work will not enable one to retain as much information as repeated readings will. It is an excellent book and I look forward to re-reading it again in the future.
With John Stott's death, I can only pray that this book will come into the hands of more and more who want to know deeply the pinnacle event of human history. This is one of those "stranded on an island books" that I would take with me if I could. Please pick up and read- you will never be the same...
Incredible defense of the atonement, especially for his context in 1980's western society. I would recommend this book to anyone seeking to understand the atonement more.However, Stott's writing can be tedious and boring at times.
Finally finished this book. Stott is a brilliant systematic thinker, and there were far too many insights in this book for me to chew too quickly. On to my re-read shelf, perhaps for every Easter (which means I should get started pretty soon!).
This is a foundational book. John Stott brings together the biblical teaching of the Cross in a comprehensive but readable book. Everything about Christianity starts and finishes with the Cross. (Took me a long time to read it though -- about a year, with stops and starts!)
By far and away the best most complete book on the cross! Should be on everyone's "to-read" list. Very academic but approachable for non-seminary types. Highest recommendation!
The christianaudio/hovel audio audio book read by Simon Vance is amazing. A perfect book drawn out by an incredible narrator
This is one of the best books on the cross and highly recommend it.
I came to this book with a lot of anticipation and did not put it down in disappointment. Stott has warmed my heart with this beautifully deep look at the cross of our Lord.
Excellent. One of those books you need to underline and read over to catch everything. My favorite book read thus far this year.
