https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6218.The_Axe
Unlike Tina Nunnally's recent translation of Kristin Lavransdatter, this one by Charles Chater from 1928 was a bit archaic (words like "meseems" and "I trow" kind of bug me.) Nevertheless, it was still an intense and moving story--and it's only Part I.It's set in the late 1200s in Norway, and is the story of Olav and Ingunn's struggle to validate their betrothal.
And the characters are well-developed--both Olav and Ingunn have the best intentions, but are flawed and make mistakes.
Olav struggles as an orphan to make his way in the world while Ingunn can do nothing but wait for him.
They feel similar, in some ways, to Elena Ferrante's Naples tetralogy: firmly grounded in a particular time and place, but with gorgeous writing and the exploration of themes that are still very relevant to readers today.The Axe splits its perspective between Olav and Ingunn, who are betrothed as children and raised as foster siblings.
The Axe presents nuanced views of how men and women have to move within the boundaries, and what is and is not permitted, and how Olav and Ingunn uniquely fail the tests presented to them.There are two other key factors that make Undset's books so good.
Sanctimonious men, denigrating women. Religion crammed down the throats of the people. Guilt, recrimination, no recourse to birth control. Then I turned off the TV and finished this book.
This is the first of a tetrology by Nobel Prize winner Sigrid Undset. I dove into it and quickly ordered all three of the other books. I expect to love them as much as I love Kristin Lavransdatter. This period of time is fascinating to me and her characters are alive. I care about them and enter their lives while I read about them. I think about them when I'm not reading! Can't recommend these too much!
This is the first book in a multi-volume family saga set in 13th century Norway. This book focuses on the marriage of a young couple amid scandal.
I previously read Kristin Lavrandatter, a trilogy set in medieval Norway written between 1922 and 1924, and thoroughly enjoyed it. The Master of Hestviken is a tetrology (4 volumes) written between 1925 and 1927. Undset won the Nobel prize for literature in 1928.MoH seems darker to me with more personal anguish, "psychologically and romantically nuanced." It meticulously recreates the Norwegian world split between pagan coldes of retribution and Christian piety. Law is a new invention. Heavy but compelling.
I love this writer! She writes wonderful historicAl fiction! The thing I like most about this book is that even though it's set in medieval Norway with if different cultural and religious mores, the story is ageless. The conflict between the two main characters, their families, the church and community could be retold anywhere and at any time. This makes the story timeless. At the same time, the historical setting makes the story unique.
more to my liking than Kristen Lavransdatter - opening book is a great start - wish there was a decent English biography of Sigrid Undset - Inside the Gate: Sigrid Undset's Life at Bjerkebæk, translated by Tiina Nunnally, looks promising but as of yet I have been unable to locate a copy -
The deaths of each of their fathers curtail their options, especially the option of consumating their love in legitimate marriage.Olav spends a great deal of time making mistakes, and being banished.
Ingunn spends a great deal of time pining for Olav, making fewer mistakes, but when she does they are whoppers.
It seems like something, death, a bad swing of the axe, a bad tempered word, a poor judgement on Olav's part is always tripping up these lovers right into Ingunn's old age of twenty something, as Ingunn's more conventional younger sister has already produce a respectable brood.
Fabulous. Every bit as good as Kristin Lavransdatter.
This was a great series.
This is probably the darkest book I have ever read. I loved it though. I think the author is one of the best.
Yes, yes, yes, and I have 3 more in this series to read!
Hooray! More Norwegian epic stortelling by the illuminating Sigrid Undeset. I am so excited to start this.Who is Sigrid Undset? Link:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iTef0H...
This is a series I just completed. Amazing detail in the life of 13th century Scandinavia. The struggles of dominant religion and relationships. Hardships and simplistic beauty. Read all four books.
Wonderful historical fiction
Like Kristin, it is the life story of a person in medieval Norway, a man this time, named Olav Audunsson.
Olav's parents having died early in his childhood, he becomes the foster son of Ingunn's parents and the children grow up with the knowledge that they are betrothed to each other.
Their betrothal was not carried out with all the formalities as it ought to have been, leading to problems for the couple and their families.
It's set in an earlier time than Kristin, so Norway has become a Christian country, but in the people have still not fully transitioned from their old ways.
I have heard of Sigrid Undset for many years, but just now got around to reading this after running across a very old copy at a book sale.
She was a master of suspense, of setting, of characterizations.
The love story could have been set in any time period, but Olav's fervent faith and his loyalty seem to be a product of the times.
Morality in the thirteenth century didn't proscribe murder or other violence, and sexual mores were complicated.
I'm looking forward to following Olav and Ingunn in the other three volumes of The Master of Hestviken.
Only made it about 15 pages into this before I had to put it down. The style was just too awful; it read like a bad fanfiction. It was just a litany of confusing names and events passing by at the speed of light. I thought it was perhaps just the beginning, and then it would turn into a better, more narrative style, but I paged ahead and it didn't.
Not quite up to Kristen LavrandatterA deep exploration of a human Norwegian soul, but enough with perpetual weeping! A study of mental illness,medieval Norwegian style.
I suspect that a different translation would have made this book much more enjoyable.
During the 1920s Undset converted to Catholicism, her newfound religion quickly found its way into her writing, seeping into her fictional works and providing an easily referenced set of morals for her characters to refer to.
Though the series is largely focused on Olav, its main character, the second half of the novel essentially abandons him, skipping over years of his life, to focus on his love interest.
Perhaps Undset covers this period in a different volume of the series, if not, it was kind of jarring that he was essentially tossed aside and skimmed over for half the novel.Overall, decent, but not good enough to interest me in reading the next four books (originally published as two volumes in Norway).
Sigrid Undset is known for her brilliant, deeply subtle and intricate potrayals of life in medieval Norway, with characters who often find themselves caught between the old Norse codes of honor and shame, and the new piety and rigors of Christianity.
Olav Audunsson and Ingunn Steinfinnsdatter have been betrothed by their fathers since childhood, and have grown up with the expectation that they will be married to each other.
Ingunn's father has fostered Olav himself, as Olav's father had died when he was young.
Sigrid Undset has quickly become one of my favorite authors, and as always her writing here is rich, detailed, evocative and nuanced, and her characters are complex and deeply sympathetic.
Deliberately paced, but still a good readSigrid Undset's first volume of "The Master of Hestviken" is a very interesting book to read.
It is not as fast paced as are most modern novels, but neither is it as slow as some eighteenth century novels such as Richardson's "Clarrissa." It is more deliberately paced.
Undset, who died in 1949, had a reputation very very thoroughly researching the background of her novels and the way people actually lived during, in this case, late thirteenth century Norway.
The most interesting parts of the novel are the descriptions of life and the code of family honor in Norway of the period.
Who would have imagined that the first volume of the Sigrid Undset saga quartet, THE MASTER OF HESTVIKEN, would be so good.
. .and set the novel in 13th Century Norway in the early struggles between the gods of Norwegian mythology, and the Christian God imposed on them by St. Olaf, and you have a tale worthy to be included in the body of work for which Unset was granted the Nobel Prize for Literature.
I don't imagine that many of my Goodreads friends have THE MASTER OF HESTIVIKEN on their "to read" lists.
It does the job in that---it's set in Norway of old, or should I write "olde." The country is Catholic, but as the blurb says, it is emerging from and still influenced by its pre-Christian past.
Undset was Catholic, a minority in Norway, and this work, and I suppose all her work, is didactic in nature--just guessing since this is the first book by her that I have read.
The book is heavy with Christian themes of forgiveness and repentance, but also with honor and keeping one's word, which seem to hearken back to the old Norse ways.
I had no idea who the author was but liked the idea of historical fiction in both a century and a country that I knew nothing about.
I was surprised at how much I liked this book, especially given the slower beginning when I wasn't sure I was going to finish it.
The tone of this book is calm and simple, even with the violent and barbaric times of 13th century Norway.
With that background tone, the author has the opportunity to give voices to her characters that come out so well.
Her characters all seem to shine on their own, with limited dialogue.
An absolutely phenomenal book that breathes life and colour into our view of the medieval world. Filled with all the suspense, action and intrigue of the best modern writing and tempered with morality and philosophical quagmires that only serve to add immense depth to a surprisingly fluid and lyrical story. I was compelled to adapt the novel to a feature length screenplay. Have read the book dozens of times doing so. I was never bored.
A slow burn, but ultimately satisfying.
Set in 13th-century Norway, the story involves Olav and Ingunn, a couple betrothed since childhood.
That unfortunate point of no return initiates a decade-long period of uncertainty and shame interspersed with murder, infidelity and exile.In essence, this story is about how sin and its consequences seep into life, poisoning it in unexpected ways, even when we pursue atonement and redemption.
Long and plodding, in the midst of it I wasn't sure if I would continue the series--but once I reached the end I grabbed the next one, The Snake Pit.

