https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10979.Light_in_August
In remembrance of him and in gratitude his works making me a man better capable of understanding others, I repost this review of my Favorite novel by William Faulkner, Light in August.
Believes longer than recollects, longer than knowing even wonders." William Faulkner, "Light in August," Chapter Six, Paragraph One.mIt takes guts to write a review of one of the great American novels by one of the great American writers.
What Oxford hasn't torn down and replaced with high rise apartments and condominiums still leaves traces of William Faulkner that are there for anyone to see if they take the time to look for it.Last night I met a lovely young woman and her mother over at Square Books.
It occurs to me on reading Light in August for the third time in twenty years, that if America were ever to try to come to terms with its legacy of slavery--unlikely now at this late date--but if it ever were to empanel some kind of Truth and Reconciliation Commission, like the one South Africa had after apartheid, and which seems especially needed now that we are mourning the shooting deaths by cops of so many unarmed black men, then William Faulkner's novels, certainly this one, should be part of the background documentation of such a study.
But what Faulkner shows us in Light in August seems to me a wholly unique recounting — despite the fact that it is fiction — of a huge part of our national catastrophe.Joe Christmas lives as a white man but believes he has a little African blood in him.
"Memory believes before knowing remembers. Believes longer than recollects, longer than knowing even wonders". Are there many such novels that delve deep into our souls and that makes us suffer and weep? I believe there are many, but not many that imprison us in its tidings and with their beauty in such a way that escape is an impossibility. Yes, we cannot run away any less than its wretched characters could. Indeed, William Faulkner in Light in August wrote a tragedy set in the fictional Jeffe
And I cried with Joe Christmas, as with the rest of Faulkner’s poor damned people.
His life encompassed all the sufferings of poor whites and disfavored blacks:
He did not know until then that there were white women who would take a man with a black skin.
All the time Faulkner’s prose catches by the gut and prevents us from abandoning his damned characters.
Her folks come down here in the Reconstruction, to stir up the niggers.'  Even worst, 'they say she is still mixed up with niggers.'All together this most memorable group forms the picture Faulkner is painting us.
"He never acted like either a nigger or a white man.
That sing to the tune of all human frailty with nary a care for readerly reception.
The colossal human tragedy shorn of its sheen of grandiosity.
The dark was filled with voices, myriad, out of all time that he had known, as though all the past was a flat pattern.
These are words that serenade endurance in the face of inescapable defeat.
Words birthing an opera of anguished voices asking for reprieve, for redemption.
They are filled with hope in the August of their lives, all of a sudden, these broken beings.
Light arcs into this dreary abyss occasionally.
William Faulker, Light in August:"Sitting beside the road, watching the wagon mount the hill toward her, Lena thinks, 'I have come from Alabama, a fur piece.'"Here Faulker presents Lena who has a passive role in Light in August as this phrase (sitting, watching, thinking) points out - she is not actually doing an action here other than a purely mental one.
There are a multitude of verbs in the phrase, but as I pointed out earlier, they are passive - in the book, there is actually quite a lot of action and violence, but it is described at a slow, deliberate pace throughout.Light in August back in AP English was my first exposure to Faulkner and it was a mind-blower.
2) As young students, teachers take us to the library and allow us to pick out whatever book we like (as long as we’re not just trying to avoid reading by picking out a pamphlet), but by the time we reach high school and college, it’s assigned.
The second quarter of this book, about 150 pages, could have easily been trimmed back to a lean 30, and even though I liked the last chapter, at least 40 of the pages before that could have been cut out, too, but that’s not Faulkner’s style.
You’re an American author, dead almost half a century, and there’s this thing called television and a host(ess?) talking about books with half the population of a country you once inhabited, you’re on the list and why?
I really hate the term Great American Novel, how we capitalize it in the middle of sentences (GAN, anyone?) and talk about examples of it with reverence.
I’ve not looked up whatever passes for a definition of the GAN, but I’ll take this as my personal one: a novel that describes an immutable trait of what it is to be American.
So to Faulkner I tip my hat for writing a Great American Novel.
The narrative skips around between different characters and time zones making you really think about what is there in front of you, and there is no plot as such just interlinked small stories that tie off violently towards it's climax.
But it's not long into proceedings that he spells out quite clearly just where and when we are, with dialogue containing the 'N' word on a scale that is both shocking and sadly all too realistic of this time, it's here that Faulkner is a master at creating a truly harsh and unforgettable world, certainly deliberately so, though I am not entirely sure that he fully meant it to be this way, all the folk that are presented before us seem like both victim and victimizer, unsympathetic and at a loss with life.
My research into which of Faulkner’s novels to start with indicated that Light in August is one of his more accessible works.
Faulkner also allows characters to tell parts of the story to each other, relating their experience of particular events and speculating about parts of the action they have not directly witnessed.
While the narrative style of the two novelists is quite different, they both set their novels in a fictional location based on a real place - Yoknapatawpha County for Faulkner and Wessex for Hardy.
Listening to this novel was a very special literary experience.
I was going to write something about unrequited love.Memory believes before knowing remembers.
There are some other great ones in Light in August but it is Joe Christmas that spurred my unrequited love (for a lack of a better word.
I know too damned well how Joe Christmas felt between the black and white people.
Then she thinks that would have had me.'Joe Christmas is going to haunt me.
I know I'm more like Joe because I didn't relate to Lena at all.
(That's also my unrequited love.) There is that thing where I wish I was invincible and no one would know what I was thinking either.
I've read a few Faulkners now and this one left the least impression upon me, and yet it was still miles ahead of other novels!William Faulkner flogs words, he teases them, he primps and preens them pretty like.
You'd be hard-pressed to find a wordsmith with more range.However, compared with his other works, specifically The Sound and The Fury and Absalom, Absalom, this one read like a plain old pedestrian story.
In prep for this review I was going to read a synopsis of Light in August, but then I thought, no, let this vague, forgetful impression speak for itself.
Faulkner did not impress me with this one.
I should let it be.
Il passato smette di essere semplice mito fondativo dell’identità e diventa la forza nera che incess
We are in Mississippi, in Jefferson, imaginary Yoknapatawpha County town where Faulkner located many of his novels.
We will then follow the fate of Joe Christmas, and parallel those of the Reverend Hightower and Joanna Burden.It is a very dense book.
Each character has an unfortunate fate, tragic view.
Faulkner describes much suffering among his characters mired in religion, in racism and hatred.This atmosphere is served by a beautiful writing, poetic and sensual.
A writing that severe in us the feelings it evokes.
Faulkner place his story in a nonlinear way.
Here, I found that Faulkner knew what he was doing.I cannot throw terms like "Southern Gothic" around, for what do I know of the South or the Gothic?
It takes a certain caliber of author to write with all the living beauty and horrific prejudice in place, the truth if you will for which words are less than useless, and come out with a message of power wrapped around a bleeding heart.
If you wish to know both the US and the broader scope of humanity, here is Faulkner at his most accessible.
Murat Belge'nin çevirisini şahane bulduğumu belirterek başlayayım. Uzun zamandır böyle tat alarak bir roman okumamıştım. Aldığım bu tat konunun akıcılığından veya ilgi çekiciliğinden kaynaklanmıyor. Elbette ilgi çekici bir konu ama beni üslup kendine bağladı. Faulkner'la tanıştığım Ses ve Öfke'de olduğu gibi burada da uyguladığı teknik insanı okurken alıp götürüyor adeta. Bir yolu, bir ağacı, bir bulutu veya bir yol bir ağaç ve bir bulut olarak insanı okuyor insan.Dolayısıyla zamanda ve mekanda yankı bulan kendiliğini görüyor kitapta. Bu zevki tattığım için çok memnunum, ana dilinden de okumayı çok isterim.
He had been listening, but his expression was brooding, with a kind of violently slumbering contemplativeness and bewildered outrage.'The story centre's on two strangers who arrive in Faulkners fictional town, come home, Jefferson in Yoknapatawpha County, Mississippi at different times and affecting the town in vastly differing ways.
At the same time a fire brings the crime of murder and two obvious suspects into the public eye.The second story thread is the life of Joe Christmas from a young orphan to a whisky bootlegger, living on the property where fire and death bring grave attention, and the second suspect Lucas Burch the man that Lena searches for.
E intorno ai protagonisti profeti schiamazzanti che predicano l’avvento del regno di Dio per pulire la terra dalla sozzura e l’abominio della razza negra, sceriffi con la stella di latta che inseguono per le strade impolverate i criminali, negri talmente scuri da essere invisibili al mondo e gli abitanti bianchi di Jefferson che fungono da spettatori alla tragedia in atto, bravi cristiani che girano con le Bibbie in mano e frequentano ogni domenica la chiesa, preda di una isteria razziale che li porta a condannare senza appello il sangue negro ovunque esso scorra.Un capolavoro scritto con una scrittura affilata come una lama, asciutta ed essenziale, da leggere perché ci insegni “quanto sia falso anche il più profondo dei libri quando lo si applica alla vita”.
This day ought to be marked down.Light in August was assigned by my senior seminar professor, and while I wasn’t entirely fond of the whole story there were certainly chapters I enjoyed; specifically the first few chapters.
Basically, after we found out about Christmas and his backstory, the story fell to a dull point.The writing is very Faulkner-like with how every name, event, saying, has some type of meaning.
I enjoyed this difficult style of writing -- on days I wasn’t tired.
On days I had work, tutoring, and classes, Faulkner’s writing exhausted me.On a side note, I’m glad Lena and Byron were “together” by the end of the novel.
"Inviolada noiva de quietude e paz,Filha do tempo lento e da muda harmonia, Silvestre historiadora que em silêncio dásUma lição floral mais doce que a poesia:Que lenda flor-franjada envolve tua imagemDe homens ou divindades, para sempre errantes.(...)Quando a idade apagar toda a actual grandeza,Tu ficarás, em meio às dores dos demais,Amiga, a redizer o dístico imortal:"A beleza é a verdade, a verdade a beleza"— É tudo o que há para saber, e nada mais."John Keats, "Ode a Uma Urna Grega"Pensava q
"Inviolada noiva de quietude e paz,Filha do tempo lento e da muda harmonia, Silvestre historiadora que em silêncio dásUma lição floral mais doce que a poesia:Que lenda flor-franjada envolve tua imagemDe homens ou divindades, para sempre errantes.(...)Quando a idade apagar toda a actual grandeza,Tu ficarás, em meio às dores dos demais,Amiga, a redizer o dístico imortal:"A beleza é a verdade, a verdade a beleza"— É tudo o que há para saber, e nada mais."John Keats, "Ode a Uma Urna Grega"Pensava que depois de O Som e a Fúria já tinha lido William Faulkner, mas A Luz em Agosto revela-me um novo Escritor.
Now I don't have any personal experience with desperately trying to get pregnant, but reading novels for school reminds me of that: there's this activity that I'm used to doing purely for fun when I feel like it, that I'm now grimly pushing through on an inflexibly dictated schedule, whether I'm in the mood or not, with this intense sense of purpose that seems to poison the whole event.
While I prefer his more difficult/complex work, I definitely enjoyed this text and I highly recommend it.For the first couple chapters, this book doesn't feel like Faulkner.
I don't feel like I found as much depth or character interest in Light in August, with the possible exception of Christmas, whose life story receives the most attention and time.
While it may be disappointing, in terms of style and depth, to those that have already read him, Light in August nonetheless contains one of Faulkner's most complex and compelling character and is a rewarding read.
Non è il mio caso: la sua scrittura tese a respingermi in passato e solo ora (alla buon’ora!) comincia a penetrare più a fondo nella mia comprensione; nella comprensione che non è necessario afferrare ogni passaggio, ogni sussulto, ogni azione di questi torturati personaggi, propensi al soliloquio, all’autocoscienza, alla spietata valutazione delle scelte proprie e altrui, degli eventi che determinano e condizionano l’esistenza di un individuo, di una collettività e di un popolo.
Sono costretta a fare una premessa, anche se è un po' pedante, ma con Faulkner non posso evitarla: questa non vuole essere una recensione, ma solo riportare impressioni di lettura, quelle "gut emotions" che non possono rimanere inespresse, che urgono e richiedono la parola, non ricerco quindi un'analisi dettagliata che, soprattutto in questo caso e in questa sede, rimarrebbe comunque superficiale.
Il tono di Faulkner è epico, biblico, si odono quasi i rintocchi delle campane, ogni sua affermazione è solenne, un dato di fatto, come lo è la religione per voce dei personaggi che compaiono nella narrazione, più d'uno è sottomesso ad essa, a un dogma qui provinciale e gretto che si rivela asfissiante e fanatico e l'assecondare il quale o fuggire dal quale produce grandi ripercussioni.
But there is no denying that Faulkner knows his characters and, by extension, his readers.
It was as though instead of having been subtly slain and corrupted by the ruthless and bigoted man into something beyond his intending and her knowing, she had been hammered stubbornly thinner and thinner like some passive and dully malleable metal, into an attenuation of dumb hopes and frustrated desires now faint and pale as dead ashes."And this is a minor character!
Not every reader will have the stamina to wander around in Faulkner's world for long, but those that make the trip will come back with a richer, if more complicated, understanding of the people among us.
"Nella mia terra la luce ha una sua qualità particolarissima, fulgida, nitida, come se venisse non dall'oggi, ma dall'antichità classica".
La luce descritta qui è una luce che risuona del periodo classico, una luce dal sapore antico, ma non per questo meno intensa.
Luce d'agosto sono piccole matrioske che racchiudono ognuna una storia, una storia con personaggi indimenticabili, unici.
Dall'Alabama al Tennessee, caratterizzato da strade polverose, seguiamo le vicende di Lena, una giovane innocente che cerca l'uomo da cui attende un figlio, il meticcio Christmas, che non è né bianco né nero, sino al reverendo Hightower che porta con sé il peso della morte della moglie.
I lost interest after 100 plus pages, so I really can't even say that I read the book.
It was okay for one chapter, but chapter after chapter revealed flashbacks, and this during the time when I found the book so interesting.
My thought was to skip them and get on with the book, but so many chapters were on it.
I will keep the book and keep trying.
P.S. I gave in and finished the book.
I don't expect to ever read another Faulkner book, but at least I can say I did.
نویسنده با به کارگیری تیپ شخصیتی کریسمس نشون میده که چطور یک فرد می تونه مدام از معضلات خود گریزان باشه و رفتاری خشونت آمیز در مواجهه با دیگران از خود بروز بده، و از سویی با معرفی شخصیت هایی دیگر از جمله"لین" ، نشون میده که چگونه میشه در تنگناهای زندگی از خود واکنشی کاملاً هنجار و متفاوت از خود نشون داد و از بار مسئولیت شونه خالی نکرد.من این کتاب رو به انگلیسی خوندم، اما اگه به خوندن ترجمه علاقمند هستید، از این کتاب دو ترجمه موجود هست که یکی از اونها توسط نشر چشمه با ترجمه ی آقای عبدالحسین شریفیان به چاپ رسیده.
A devastating and elliptical examination of race in America, Faulkner here absolutely dazzles with his approach.
His CHOPCHOPCHOP cadence perfectly mimics the frustratingly apathetic and inert resistance to racial enlightenment in the South, post-Civil War. It reads with the intentionally arrogant pacing of a mule doing calculus, seemingly designed to make the reader butt his or her head against the nearest wall in absolute disbelief at the entrenched seed of self-appointed supremacy these hillbillies entertain.
So I’ll say this: read it and then talk to me about racial equality.
I’ll then talk to you about Christmas, first name Joe. Or, y’know, it’s almost baseball season.
While at times these literary tricks of Faulkner would catch me up for a few minutes, they went a long way toward heightening my enjoyment of this tale.Set in the small town of Jefferson, Mississippi, Light in August tells the tale of Joe Christmas, a mixed race man trying to pass in the age of Jim Crow, where just one drop of black blood is too much, Lena Grove, a woman walking across the state in search of Lucas Burch, the n’er-do-well who knocked her up in Alabama before disappearing, and the Reverend Hightower, a disgraced and defrocked priest stuck living in a past that may never have existed, aside from his imagination.
In the background there’s something bizarre, and you can instantly make up your mind about what it is, or not bother with it at all, like you do in life or any story.
Then, a few chapters pass, and like a boxer’s feint now that background is the story: and it’s so different up close, all your judgements are useless, it makes your mouth gape open to see what’s really going on.
All the while you can’t shake it, I dare you, the idea that Faulkner just wants you to think.
And that’s how he gets the South right.
