https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760120.The_Wailing_Siren_Mystery
The Hardy Boys are back for their thirtieth adventure in The Wailing Siren Mystery (1951).
The boys will face kidnappers and ravenous wolves; be knocked out and tied up and nearly drowned; trace stolen money and airplane parts; and search out the source of the wailing siren--all before the mystery is finally wrapped up.Another fun adventure with Frank and Joe. Not the strongest of the series--it relies even more heavily than usual on coincidence, but the boys do some real detective work (tracking cars by their tire marks and following faint signs and trails through the wood.
Hardy Boys: The Wailing Siren Mystery.
Dixon,the book is about two brothers Joe Hardy and Frank Hardy have to find out where a load of rifles were loaded on to a wailing ship that got away because the Harry's mother boat ran out of gas.
Throughout the entire book the author explanes how the hardy boys try to figure out the wailing siren mystery.
The other had a shack that looked very suspicious and was raising a tone of wolves to attack people.
This book was really well written and I really liked it.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
Great mystery and great brother teamwork!
Intriguing mysteries, adventure, intensity, chasing clues, just so much in the book, but not too much.
Great family.
Love reading of the various regular characters, the Hardy family, the Hardy brothers girlfriends, and their friends.
A lot of great scenes throughout the book.
A reader looking for a lot of thrilling action and smart investigating will really enjoy this book - just like me!
:)For more details about what I loved about the book, including favorite quotes and scenes, but without spoilers, please check out my complete review @ Hardy and Drew Mysteries.
Chet, Biff and Tony had been a part of the story near the beginning, but then they were summarily dropped.
Very strange.This was definitely the original publication, as Fenton handed each of his teenage sons a pistol to defend themselves because this was a rough case.
If that boggles your mind, then this is not the book for you and you need to find one of the updated versions.
Still, not a bad story and it is always interesting (to me anyway) to read the original and then find one of the new versions later.Read it!
With their father working a case about counterfeit, a Bayport pilot missing, and their camping trip more focused on surviving and searching for criminals than relaxation, Frank and Joe are about to be in over their heads when they get their hands on fake money falling from the sky! Dixon delivers one of the most fun entries in the series with this enjoyably suspenseful adventure!
Bummer! :( I was hoping this HB book would end up being 5-star for me but sadly, to be honest, 3-star. I got attracted to reading this book when I read the review of it in The Hardy And Drew Mysteries blog. I loved all the brotherly love and Frank and Joe's braveness, except I didn't like that it was slow. Also, it was a bit confusing. :(
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
A South American revolutionary! Can you believe it? Eh. It's a good enough Hardy Boys story anyway!
Dixon makes realistic mystery’s in all of his “The Hardy Boys” book series.
Dixon is a pen name used by many authors like Leslie McFarlane, a Canadian author, being the first who wrote The Hardy Boys.
The brothers Frank and Joe Hardy try to help out their friend Chet to help find who stole chet’s uncle’s rifles who is a big game hunter.When you know what the main mystery is Franklin W.
Dixon’s books if you like mystery like The Hardy Boys or Nancy Drew.
I feel that you start reading one hardy boys book you get sucked into reading all the other ones.
The Hardy Boys is a mystery series.
And mystery series must have a plot twist or two.
But in this book, the excessive number of character and plot twists completely detracted from the story.
Eventually, I could not tell what was going on in the story, turning this book into something I would not read out of choice.
However, even with this major detraction, the plot was very gripping.
So, if someone really wanted to read this book, I would redirect them to a detailed 2-3 page plot summary of the book, because reading the book itself will make them lose faith in Hardy Boys forever.

This was definitely one of the weaker Hardy Boys mysteries. Fenton Hardy keeps information away from the police, but then later tells them when the counterfeiters are meant to show up. Coincidences abound as the Hardys go camping and come across the same gang who dropped a wallet full of counterfeit money from their helicopter. And why counterfeiters would deliver the money in a wallet in the first place is anybody’s guess, as that scenario is never addressed!
Reread of a childhood favorite.
GNAR GNARBOOOK ummmm its cool i guessSo the boys head up and solve a classic mystery withfun filled chapters that you wont be able to put downbthe mystery is the place is in the woods the whole time btw the hardy boys die
Another Hardy Boyz Mystery. Not the best one though.
Early in the book Frank and Joe Hardy find 2,000 dollars in the ocean. KM
A fun read. Every young man should know the Hardy Boys.
My First Book
Loved it.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
These are not great books but they remind me of a great childhood I had. The Hardy Boys, Nancy Drew, Chip Hilton and the underrated Ken Holt mystery series all bring back wonderful memories.
Awesome. one of my favorite series.
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
Get trapped in storm with the Hardy Boys and solve a mystery
read when I was 10 through 13
Ah, the sleuth. Perhaps a less conspicuous name would've got them in less trouble.
Another fun Hardy Boys. I didn't enjoy this one as much as some of the others.
