https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8529.Reflex
Curious, Nore begins to experiment with the items in his own darkroom, and once he does, he puts himself directly in the sights of some very dangerous people who will stop at nothing to protect their secrets.This is a fairly typical Dick Francis novel and readers of the series will immediately recognize Philip Nore as the prototypical Francis protagonist.
In part this is because he spends a great deal of time in the novel describing the technical aspects of what Nore is doing in his darkroom to uncover Millace's secrets.
In support of my rating I make note of :-	there is actual steeplechase racing in the book, as Philip Nore, the protagonist, is still active on the racetrack as an amateur jockey-	by now Dick Francis became aware that he needed to diversify his set-ups with other passions / interests and other avenues of investigation into the murders.
This man, George Millace, was one of the best racing photographers, a passion that Philip shares as an enthusiast amateur who likes to carry his camera everywhere he goes in the hope he will stumble on a good subject or a good trick of the light.
Just another fall.Lots of small observations, but only a few short sentences.
Generally he finds ways to string the short observations into longer sentences:He soared around the whole thing with bursting joie-de-vivre, even to the extent of passing the favorite on the run-in, and we came back to bear hugs from the blue hair (for the benefit of television) and an offer to me of a spare ride in the fifth race, from a worried-looking small-time trainer.The "and ...
I always enjoy reading a good Dick Francis novel. Phillip Nore in this one is a really good character. They are pretty clean, the language isn't too bad, and not a lot of sex.... Sometimes I even reread the books, because it's like being with a friend you haven't seen in several years. I really enjoy the characters he uses, and also enjoy the series he writes about too. I'm not a gambler, but I really enjoy watching them live, as well as on screen. There is a certain excitement that I don't find in many other places.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
He's also a commitment-phobic who sees himself as a drifter who just goes with the flow--but he can't resist a good puzzle, and he can't restrain himself from righting wrongs, even if it puts him on a par with the man he despises.Reading with hindsight, I realised that the ten quid Nore offers for some information would be tantamount to 50 pounds in today's money--quite a lot for a ten-year-old child, and even for some of us adults.
Narrator Philip Nore 30, was abandoned "just till Saturday" by his mother Caroline, dead from heroin addiction, to be raised by a series of friends.
Nore finds kind welcoming Samantha and her lovely lively daughter Clare.
A man's photograph is identified, but 17 pages till we learn the villain p452.
Waiting for people to come, who didn't; and for promises to be fulfilled, that weren't." p13 "Survival for so many years had been a matter of accepting what I was given ...
If I learned all George's secrets I would have to accept the moral burden of deciding what to do about them ...
Tight writing and a not too predictable plot make this a hugely enjoyable read.
As in most of the Francis books I’ve read, the protagonist gets beat up multiple times.
Francis writes fluently of pain and recovery, and I always find myself wincing as I read these sections.
And as in all other Francis books I’ve read, he brings in another topic or two to weave into the story.
But by far the main topic beyond jockeying is photography.
(view spoiler)[ A photographer hides information in photos that need to be developed using different, not normal methods.
(hide spoiler)] Overall, a typical Francis story but one where the plot was hampered by a nonsensical timing issue.
One of my favorite Dick Francis stories.There are two scenes that I particularly enjoyed: the first was when Phillip Nore makes a gift of a candid photo of fellow amateur photographer George Millace to George's widow, and finds himself overwhelmed by her emotional reaction of joyful gratitude; the second is when he discovers the "Price" George had demanded from his blackmail victims. Phillip then decides to demand the same price from George's killer.
The reviewer Jim Barlow of the Houston Times once wrote that Dick Francis "writes believable fairy tales for adults—ones in which the actors are better than we are but are believable enough to make us wonder if indeed we could not one day manage to emulate them." I've been a fan of Dick Francis for many years, and so when I was having a tough day, I sat down with Reflex and remembered why I liked his work so much.
Jockey Philip Nore is ingenious in his everyman way, figuring out the people and things around him in a calm, non-Bondish fashion that James Bond himself would admire.
First book by Dick Francis I read.
Now I own them all.I love Dick Francis mysteries.
They are well planned with a strong hero.
I also love the fact that the mystery is not always a murder.
Murders are unnecessary.
Missing diamonds, horses dying, and frustrations solved make better stories.
He writes about embezzlement, stolen whiskey, and of course, Crooked trainers.
Most of his books have horse racing as part of the background.
I have been buying them again on kindle when I need a good read.
I would really like to buy High Stakes on kindle.
Good mix of photographic methods and horse racing in order to solve a murder mystery.
Our hero is Phillip Norse, a 2nd tier jockey who had a very unconventional childhood because his mother constantly left him with other people to raise.
He learned his two passions in life, photography and horse racing, from two of the couples that his mother left his with.
His grandmother decides she wants to see him and one of the most prominent racing photographers is killed in a car accident.
These two events change Phillip's life.
I find this book to be a superb mystery from an author who would have been a master of any genre he had decided to write.
Even though the world of horses, races and jockeys has never actually appealed to me, the glowing reviews of his novels induced me to give his work a try.
It has a rather slow start, and it builds up slowly, but as it crescendos towards the end, the novel just keeps you glued to the pages.
(Case in point - it was so suspenseful that I read the last chapter during my lecture.) To some it may not seem so, but I have found the slow start to be a good point - as a layman concerning all things horses and racing, I needed to ease into that world.
I am sure I read this years ago, but well worth a second read.Jockey, Philip Nore has never known who his father was, and was dumped on different people all his life.
His friends father (another jockey) was a professional photographer at the race track, he had been killed, his wife beaten, and his house later burned.
While trying to help his friends mother, Philip had obtained some of the photographers prints, though he was unaware of what he had.In the meantime, a grandmother, who Philip had never met materialized, via some solicitors, and he was asked to see gran on her deathbed.
Many years ago, I read Reflex, and that started my addiction to Dick Francis mysteries.
My recent second read did not disappoint.
Francis weaves an interesting tale about Phillip Nor, a hurdles jockey who navigates through a maze of mysteries including what happened to a sister he hadn't known he had and solving the puzzle of the photographic clues left behind by a track photographer killed in a car accident.
Francis, a former jockey himself, keeps readers engaged and always saves some surprises for the end.
Dick Francis explores the world of film photography, something that will be totally foreign to today's digital photography generation. As with most Dick Francis novels, the hero is a plucky jockey who can, and does, take a beating and survives to get the upper hand against the villains. The interesting twist is the photographic puzzles he must solve in order to catch the murderer.
Really nostalgic, captivating and eerie mystery novel, with everything a mystery novel should have and then some. The characters are not only complex but also memorable and original. The writing style is creative and the traditional film photography medium gives the book an extra original edge.
It was ten years since I last read this book, and it was like meeting a loved friend after a long time. I felt completely comfortable and safe. It's great to read a suspense novel which has nothing gory or disturbing in it.
If "Whip Hand" is Dick Francis best novel, "Reflex" in my opinion is his next best novel.
Dick Francis is always a good read. The mystery is good and I always feel I learn a little more about what it is like to be a jockey. This book had an interesting twist in that photography was a main theme throughout the mystery. I followed the mystery, discovering the evidence as the hero did. This was a thoroughly satisfying mystery.Who would enjoy it? People who like racing or horses and mysteries. People who like photography and mysteries. If you like all three as I do, then you should love it.
This is one of Dick Francis's most memorable mysteries. I've read it at least 3 times, now, and enjoyed it this time as much as I had in the past. His knowledge of the British horse-racing world is based on long years of his own experience, and his writing skills shine in this as in others of his novels. He does his research, his stories and his characters are impeccably constructed and his novels shine with a burnished narrative style.
赛马骑师Philip童年流离，被母亲推给一个又一个朋友照顾，在寄养家庭中帮忙干活期间，学会了两个能够赖以为生的技能，骑马和摄影。在同行的一位出色的摄影师离奇死亡后，他机缘巧合得到了摄影师的一份遗物，在解密一系列底片过程中，他渐渐发现了风平浪静的赛马界中暗藏的龌蹉交易，危险一步步靠近。另一方面，癌症晚期的外祖母让他寻找他同母异父的妹妹来继承她的遗产，并告诉他生父的秘密以及她厌恶他的原因。Philip开头莫名的正直让人不以为然，后来黑化了感觉才有点人格魅力。外祖母从头到尾一副屌样，连最后的遗嘱都要怼一下主角，是个人物。两个寄养家庭的故事很温暖，可能就是主角那股正直的由来，他母亲给他的唯二的美好的东西。总体来说，蛮好看的。
Had no idea what to expect- this was recommended to me by a friend who loves the Russell series by Laurie R King, and it was a good mystery; layered, dark at times, steady revealing of clues and an interesting ending. The main character’s discovery of himself was at first hard to relate to- he was kind of a jerk, honestly- but as it unfolded, was interesting to watch and made him more human.
The old books {1981} are so well researched and totally a page turner. This one is about a photographers secrets, a mothers secrets, herion addiction and a little love. Great book Oh yes, the British race track is in there too!!
A typical Dick Francis page turner, one of the bestI love Dick Francis books and this is one of the best. You get invested in his characters so quickly. The action and plot develop quickly and keep going until the end.
Not his best. Characters not particularly fresh, girlfriend especially standard issue, plot only okay, and having us believe Nore would have figured out all George Millace's secret ways is asking a lot.
I realize that Dick Francis was writing in the latter half of the 20th century and that most of his work was done in the 1980s, but there's something deliciously reminiscent of Mary Stewart's post war thrillers. I really enjoyed this: a solid 4 star read.
A good, quick mystery based on darkroom photography.
