https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/267418.The_Late_George_Apley
This winner of the 1938 Pulitzer prize for fiction is a gently satirical and sociologically savvy portrait of George Apley, a Boston Brahmin born in the years immediately after the American Civil War. He is rich and wellborn, the product of a haughty and insular culture, yet he wins the reader's admiration by growing--incrementally, authentically--into a man able to face the challenges of the 20th century.
I tried to read this when I was in my twenties, thought it was the most boring thing I'd ever read.
Now, in my eighties, I give it five stars.
(Should be four and a half, but Goodreads doesn't seem to do things in halves) Does this book venerate the upper classes (esp Bostonian), or does it mock them?
A little of each?
I'd have to read more Marquand before I could check in on that.
I laughed.
Almost every page, I laughed.
Surely this is an exercise in reading between the lines.
I remember my father talking about this book.
The book is a social satire and written to picture society in transition -- but I was very sympathetic to George, liking him very much.
The book was largely letters George writes to his son,observing social changes and giving advise."Plese try to think carefully exactly what you want, before you spend it, because there is no satisfaction as great as spending wisely, and few annoyances as great as feeling that money has been wasted.""Distrust the book which reads too easily because such writing appeals more to the senses than to the intellect.
This was one of those flukes where I'm glad I hung in there, because I sure hated the first 50 (100?) pages. I definitely had it pegged as a waste-of-time Pulitzer. Instead, I found it a touching and sad exploration of how we can find ourselves becoming what we did not want to be, and the gradual yield to conformity. I still do not understand the reviews of 1937, which all rang with words like 'hilarious' and 'wickedly funny', because the satire here struck me as infinitely sad, but I guess they must be the product of their era.
Why doesn't the Library of America have a volume of John P Marquand novels? I remembered The Late George Apley as a very good book and this re-reading 50 years later confirms that. First-rate and not included in the definitive collection of American authors. That should be fixed.
Within this fiction (both the book, and the George's aloof view of his life), the author reveals the hypocrisy in our behaviors when we: fool ourselves into believing we are trying to help others, when we are privately attempting to perpetuate our sense of self; suggest that we are working for the good of society, when we are posturing in order to distinguish ourselves from others; and lastly, when we seek to preserve tradition, when we are merely trying to insulate ourselves in a life that is comforting to us because we control, or at least are attempting to control it.
we really GET it - that George's whole life is captive to his being a member of that very limited(in so many ways) bunch of Boston blue bloods.
For dad it's about glory, while John's the one who saw the horror and is grateful only to have survived(he was wounded).- The social change thing and its effect on the family - much more mobility - Eleanor will be going far away soon - sad for George.- George speak of his admiration and love for Thoreau - another indication of his discontent.Finished last night with this quiet, satiric look at the "lost" life of a Boston Brahmin.
The subtitle for THE LATE GEORGE APLEY is A NOVEL IN THE FORM OF A MEMOIR, and so, rather than a traditional, and likely less effective, approach, author John Marquand makes use of supposed correspondence between the main character and his family and of public records to tell the biography of George Apley, a member of Boston aristocracy and Beacon Hill resident.
Sly and subtle, Marquand gives us not only a picture of Apley, but of an entire culture and generation, one that was fighting to stay relevant in the changing world, but one that was so stratified and petrified as to be unable to meet any of those changes with much success.
The 'writer' (i.e. narrator) of this book is a man who was close friends with the late George Apley.
They asked the writer to prepare a biography, which was based on his own knowledge of Mr. Apley as well as interviews with his friends and family, and correspondence to and from Mr. Apley.The resulting story was actually pretty interesting.
In the end though, all we know is that a close friend to his family narrated the story of George Apley.
I am reading The Late George Apley for a book club.
I was not, however, initially enthusiastic about reading George Apley.
Also the book club member who chose George Apley generally picks bad books.I have been pleasantly surprised though!
Like Mr. Eager, he is a terrible snob and seems completely clueless about his friend George.
George Apley is Willing's Lady Catherine.
I think he would have rolled his eyes at most of the comments Willing makes about him.George Apley himself is much more likeable.
Poor George Apley - part of him wants to follow his heart, and not care what the rest of the world thinks of his choices; unfortunately, a larger part of him feels safer - and more righteous - following the rules set down by the society he has grown up in - upper-class Boston at the end of the 19th century.
Ultimately I think the book makes the case that happiness is probably achieved by mixing a little bit of both of those choices - family and independence, tradition and novelty.
I loved the beginning,but as George got a little older, his snobbishness (which he and his friends defiantly refused to acknowledge, and to quote Shakespeare, they protested too much)was annoying and overwhelming.
The "do what is best for the family" attitude and don't try to be different advice he gave to his children was amusing, even though it was annoying as well, but integral to the portrait of George Apley.
I think that his Uncle William stated it best when he told George not to take his family name too seriously.
He dies in the end. Meanwhile, it made me feel like a voyeuristic Jew reading the life of a Bostonian aristocrat: I have always been faced from childhood by the obligation of convention, and all of these conventions have been made bu others, formed from the fabric of the past. In some way these have stepped in between me and life. I had to realize that they were designed to do just that...to promote stability and inheritance.
This was on the staff pick table at the library, and since it was about Boston, I picked it up.Can't tell you how much I enjoyed it. The portrait of the persons, place, and times were of great interest to me, and the prose was both accessible and erudite.I will look for the author's other books.
This was one of my top ten books of all time. I can't believe that this writer has mostly been forgotten. His sardonic wit and damning satirical viewpoint was remarkable. I feel like I have been the recipient of Mr. Apley's letters and I feel the same sort of pity that many characters in the book felt. It was brilliant. I loved it.
Why this ever won a Pulitzer I don't know. Humor so subtle and out of my sphere of reference as to pass right by this midwesterner. There was a movie made in the 1940's and the reviews of that are great -- I recommend renting it instead of reading the book.
We had to read this in high school. Everyone else hated it. I loved it.
I tried reading this as a young man, many years ago. In discussing it with a friend, he suggested that since I was more mature, I might now enjoy it. He was right.
My copy is from the International Collectors Library, circa 1973, based on the 1937 manuscript and hard bound, 303 pages.Bottom Line First: The late George Apley subtitled "A Novel in the Form of a Memoir," is a novel narrated by a longtime friend and local author Willing.
As unsympathetic as George Apley may seem, Marquand’s writing kept me wanting to stay in the story and see the world through the eyes of the Boston upper crust.
George Apley helped Marquand to earn a Pulitzer prize and is considered the better of his several novels, usually comic about life among the rich Bostonians.
This is a classic novel, told mostly in letters, about an elite Bostonian man and his family, dating back to 1636 but mostly set during the span of George's life, from 1866-1933, with all the cultural, sexual, literary, political, and social changes occurring then.
George is often appalled and perplexed by the newfangled mores of his children, John and Eleanor, and of that generation -- girls entering speakeasies; girls unchaperoned with boys; men having any physical relationship with any woman not already their wife (chaste kissing might be allowed); people rejecting membership in the posh social clubs, debating societies, and Harvard-related clubs; Bostonians courting and marrying crass New Yorkers or worse, Mid-Westerners; radical agitators wanting to be paid more and not be cared for like children at the mills; and so on.
But on the flip side, the details and intimacy with attitudes, expectations, and changes experienced by the main narrators were brilliant.
The adaptation to electricity, transport, and other mod cons so disturbing to the narrator were just cute.
What was expected from position and the difficulties of transcending social class have long disappeared (or so we’d like to believe) yet in no way makes them obsolete.
Partnered with books I personally much preferred, like Wickford Point or the Great Gatsby, it makes for a fascinatingly detailed grasp of life in the US over 100 years ago.
George Apley is one of the "minor classics" of the early 20th century.
It won the Pulitzer Prize in 1938 but has slipped into obscurity.
For me, it was a fascinating glimpse into the world of the Boston Brahmins and the Yankees throughout New England who prospered from hard work and ingenuity.
It is described as a satire and it does, indeed, point out the foibles and pretensions of these Yankees who descended from the Puritans and became captains of New England industry.
It is gentle satire, however, and there is sympathy for this group as well and an admiration for their principles and work ethic.
In this era where we are discovering, much to the surprise of many, that our country is more tribal than not -- or rather more fractured into tribes than we may have thought -- Marquand's view of the inner workings of what was once one of America's most powerful tribes: puritanical, old school, old money, old morals WASPs, certainly has insights to ponder.
In this novel in the form of a memoir by a friend relying on documents and letters, Marquand displays a great talent for writing between the lines, which is a particular pleasure to enjoy.
The protagonist has not aged well, perhaps he would have been a sympathetic figure in the 1940’s but it’s hard for me to perceive him that way today.
A good man with a strong sense of community it’s hard to escape the fact that he is a rich person with rich person problems.
All that said there is a timeless quality to the book having to do with societal change and how it is perceived at different stages of life.
This theme is so universal it saves what would otherwise be a hard book to love.
*3.75 stars."Yet, granted that her remark was poorly phrased, so that it was silly, the fact remains that it is worth while for anyone to have behind him a few generations of honest, hard-working ancestry" (27)."...but one and all agreed to risk it on account on its mirth-provoking qualities" (81).
*I love "mirth-provoking qualities.""The personalities that took part...were what leavened an otherwise dull loaf" (174)."My senses are stunned by gilded ostentation and shallowness" (213).
*George reflects on a trip to New York."...a rather tolerable waltzer" (213).
Brilliant!
It took me several pages to understand what I was reading.
At first I thought I was reading a very dry fictional biogaraphy but it eventually dawned on me that this was actually a brilliant satire.
The humor is so subtle and understated that, at first, I didn't pick up on it but once I did I enjoyed the book very much.
It is the story of George Apley, a Boston blueblood, who grew up privileged and fully believed he deserved everything he got.
The story is told by inserting numerous letters that are written to George and letters George has written to various people.
This is the story of the changing social and political surroundings of Boston over the life of George Apley, a man in the upper class, from 1866-1933.
It is written in memoir form as one of his friends, Willing, collecting his letters and laying them out on a timeline after his death to try to give a view of Apley as a man.
It really gave me a feeling of what the climate was like in Boston and New England during the time when my grandpa was a young child.
Not much excitement happens over the long arc of the book. It’s the story of a Brahmin Boston family, And it’s the end of an era, so I found it interesting from that perspective, but I’m not running out to tell people to read it. The writing style takes some getting used to. I gave it the fourth star because of the format in which it was written, with the “narrator” being asked to write a truthful biography of his friend after his passing and using remembrances and (mostly) letters to tell the story. Letters are always fun.
Reminiscent of "The Age of Innocence" (without the romance) and of Mr. and Mrs. Bridge" (without the humor.) Fascinating because the narrator is telling his dear friend's life story-- and nearly always gets it wrong, because he can see it only through the narrow lens of their Bostonian social set. George is not an unsympathetic character, and I read on and on, rolling my eyes at the narrator's predictability and hoping that George would somehow break free from the constraints of his world. Does he? Oh that would be a spoiler.
This book is a good example of how each generation is suspicious of the following generation and reverent of the previous one. In the early twentieth century, George Apley feels his way of life is slowly eroding away. All the things for which has has sacrificed are changing. As he grows older he begins to doubt if his life has amounted to anything. The story is timeless as every generation goes through this. You hear it when ever a story begins with "When I was a child...".
