https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113205.Heart_of_a_Dog
Yes, that includes an easy step from killing cats to pointing guns at real people, and demanding sex in exchange for keeping a job, and of course the ultimate evil that was to penetrate the fabric of the years to come - writing denunciations for little else than petty personal gains."But just think, Philipp Philippovich, what he may turn into if that character Shvonder keeps on at him!
For the characters of this book, these events are just a few years away.Keeping this in mind, you quickly realize that Bulgakov's short novel has undoubtedly way more impact on its reader now than it did back in the mid-twenties when it was written.
Собачье сердце = Sobach'e serdtse = The Heart of a Dog, Mikhail Afanasevich Bulgakov Heart of a Dog (Russian: Собачье сердце, Sobach'e serdtse) is a novel by Russian author Mikhail Bulgakov. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز اول ماه فوریه سال 1990 میلادیعنوان: دل سگ؛ نویسنده: میخاییل آفاناسیویچ بولگاکوف؛ مترجم: مهدی غبرایی؛ تهران، مرکز فرهنگی و هنری اقبال؛ 1368، در 203 صدل سگ یا «قلب سگی» رمانی ست، اثر نویسنده ی روس: میخائیل بولگاکف؛ که ایشان آن را بین ژانویه و مارس 1925 میلادی نوشتند، ولی تا سال 1987 میل
داستان درباره ی سگ ولگردی به نام «شاریک» است، که ظاهر انسانی به خود میگیرد؛ سگ در این داستان، نماد مردم روسیه است، که قرن‌ها تحت ستم، و خشونت بوده، و با آنها همچو حیوانات رفتار کرده‌ اند.
جراح عجیب داستان، تجسم حزب کمونیست (یا شاید خود لنین) باشد، و عمل پیوند دشواری که برای تبدیل سگ به انسان، انجام می‌شود، نمادی از نتیجه ی انقلاب است.
بولگاکف، در این داستان، با طنزی تلخ، نشان می‌دهد: این مغز نیست که انسان‌ساز است، بلکه قلب شالوده و پایه ی ساخت انسان است.
صرف داشتن عقل، نمی‌تواند «آدم» بسازد، بلکه احساس و روح انسانی ست، که «انسان» می‌سازد.
Bulgakov bu eserinde bilim kurgu ile hiciv i harmanlayarak ilginç bir sistem eleştirisi yansıtmış. Kısa bir Frankenstein öyküsü okumak isteyenlere tavsiye edilir fakat israr edilmez:)
Es el tercer libro que leo de este gran autor ruso, luego de "El Maestro y Margarita" que sigue siendo el mejor libro que leí en lo que va del año y de "Los Huevos Fatales", que se asemeja en ciertas características a la historia narrada en éste libro.Nuevamente es un experimento científico, un descubrimiento de la ciencia, el que Bulgákov utiliza para disfrazar su aversión al incipiente comunismo que comenzaba a regir con mano dura la Unión Soviética."Corazón de Perro" fue escrito entre enero y marzo de 1925, el autor, luego de que "Los Huevos Fatales", también de fuerte crítica a los soviets no fuera censurado por descuido, sí sufre la censura de éste, el cual sería publicado recién en su país en 1987 (Bulgákov falleció en 1940).El experimento en cuestión trata acerca de un perro de la calle al que le implantan los testículos y la hipófisis de un hombre; éste sufrirá una transfiguración y no una transformación, puesto que el experimento y la evolución de la operación transcurre entre el 23 de diciembre y el 7 de enero, lo cual incluye alusiones a la Navidad católica y la ortodoxa.
No wonder the Soviets banned the book on sight in 1925, and it wasn't actually published, anywhere, until 1987 (just ten years before that Blue Jam sketch was broadcast!).There are several translations of this available, and not being a Russian reader, I compared a few of them before I ordered my copy.
Tossed her skirt up to her knees, exposing the cream stockings and a narrow strip of badly laundered underwear, choked off her words and smothered the dog in snow.The only part of this that doesn't work is the ‘dry blizzard witch’, clearly a little personification in the original Russian which just seems confusing in this translation.
Bulgakov's satire of life in the early years of the Soviet Union cost himself dear, and it has not lost any of its provocative power.
I even preferred this to his ever so popular Master and Margarita.Giving a reading of A Dog's Heart in his Moscow apartment - March 1925, he introduced to a group of people, Sharik, the humanoid dog, and the arrogant surgeon who created him.
With sausage he has just bought, he lures Sharik back to his apartment, a seven-room suite in a building that has been requisitioned by a committee of zealous young revolutionaries.
Even early on, Bulgakov conveys so much about Soviet life in the way he perceived it.
Rating: 4*of fiveThe Publisher Says: A new edition of Bulgakov’s fantastical precursor to The Master and Margarita, part of Melville House’s reissue of the Bulgakov backlist in Michael Glenny’s celebrated translations.A key work of early modernism, this is the superbly comic story of a Soviet scientist and a scroungy Moscow mongrel named Sharik.
Why can’t the proletarians leave their galoshes downstairs instead of dirtying the staircase?’‘But the proletarians don’t have any galoshes, Philip Philipovich,’ stammered the doctor.” And the simple truth about revolution that probably contributed heavily to the book's suppression in the Soviet era:“People who think you can use terror are quite wrong.
اگر پرفسور آبراژانسکی را رژیم کمونیستی تصور کنیم و سگ ولگرد را که بی اختیار تحت عمل جراحی برای اصلاح نژاد قرار رفته مردم شوروی به حساب بیاوریم در میانه راه و با حرکتهایی که ازدو طرف سر میزند کمی دچار تردید میشویم که آیا نویسنده عقاید ضد کمونیستی داشته است و یا کمونیست را نظامی برتر میدیده که در خور افراد دون پایه ای چون مردم عادی کوچه و بازار نبوده است به طرزی که در آخر خود را محکوم به تغییر خلق خودش دیده و انسان سگ نما را دوباره به سگ اولیه تبدیل میکند و میگوید: علم هنوز راهی برای تبدیل درندگان به انسان پیدا نکرده است.
We can nip and tuck our way around our flaws, but humans inevitably are always their own disastrous downfalls and worst nightmares.Heart of a Dog is, before anything else, FUN.
We start with a sort of Woody Allen neurotic type stream of concsiousness narrative from a stray dog, Sharik, who is swooped up by doctor Preobrazhensky.
The doctor, aiming for notoriety, removes the dog's testicles and pituitary glands and replaces them with those of a deceased man.
And look at how this dog, this animal, is thinking like a Commie!
Bulgakov has, for the second time, seduced me with his whimsical, terrifying, outrageous and unique voice.
'Köpek Kalbi' benim için zevkle, eğlenerek okunan ama derinliğini asla kaybetmeyen bir roman oldu.Bana göre hiciv, alegori ve kara mizah dozu kolayca kaçabilen anlatım türleri.
Bulgakov, 'Köpek Kalbi'nde hicvi, alegoriyi ve kara mizahı eserin bütününe büyük başarıyla yedirmiş.
Filip Filipoviç'in megalomanlığa varan tavırları, Şarkov'un çiğliği ve ikisi arasındaki elektrik başlı başına bir olay.
Bulgakov'un bir doktor olarak Filip Filipoviç ve Bormental'in kişisel ve mesleki yönlerine hakimiyeti dikkat çekiciydi.
Sistem, fikir ve toplum üçlüsünün zorlama veya dışarıdan müdahale ile entegrasyonunun mümkün olmadığını, bu zorlamanın ancak bir ucube doğuracağını incelikle gösteren bir roman 'Köpek Kalbi'.
Ronald Reagan used to alarm his Soviet counterparts by saying that surely they'd both unite against an invasion from Mars.
-- Christopher HitchensIn Soviet Russia, dog's testicles lick you.What happens when a Russian stray dog meets a early Soviet doctor?
Testicles and pituitary glands get involved and a New Soviet man is made.
Part Kafkaesque transformation story, part mockery of eugenics and early Soviet attempts at creating the ideal Russian man, Bulgakov's novella is not quite as brilliant as The Master and Margarita, but still it is a stunning example of underground Soviet literature.
It is funny, absurd, dark, and worth an afternoon.
از نظر بولگاکوف در قلب سگ، صرف انقلاب برای سعادت یک جامعه رنج کشیده کافی نیست و انقلاب بدون ایجاد ساختار های اجتماعی منظم، جامعه را به بستر تباهی هدایت می کند. از این نظر شاید بتوان قلب سگ را یک رمان ضد انقلاب معرفی کرد.. یک مسخ کافکایی منتها از نوع روسی..
- بولغاكوف العبقري يكتب في ١٥٠ صفحة رواية تصلح لكل زمان تقريباً، او بالحد الأدنى ستبقى تصلح لمعظم العالم العربي لمئات السنين الآتية (للأسف)!!- الرواية بوجهها الظاهر قصة خيال علمي، تحويل كلب الى انسان، محاولة آنسنته بتعليمه الآداب الإجتماعية، الفشل الذريع في ذلك، تواجد اناس معتوهين يضخمون من حجمه ليعض سيده، ثم النهاية( بدون ذكرها كيلا نحرق الخاتمة لمن لم يقرأها).
لكن هذا الوجه السطحي لا قيمة له ولا هو المقصد.- الوجه الباطني للرواية هو العبقرية، فالعملية الجراحية هي عملية تحويل روسيا الى الإشتراكية بشكل ينافي قوانين الطبيعة، "الكلب" كناية عن كل "الكلاب" الذين حكموا من دون اي مؤهلات علمية او ثقافية بل فقط لأنهم يتبعون للحزب الحاكم!
That of a stray dog is one of the hardest lives of all.
And they are always afraid of people around them - a fear probably born of some violent experience.Our protagonist is one such dog.
The description kind of reminded me of this inhuman experiment.
The dog-human being the government of prolls.
The very name of human whose organs were used (a thief) Chugunkin derives from Russian word for cast iron.
They are also well versed in all curses in Russian language.
They are also well versed in language of revolution.
A twist on Frankenstein and his monster, but this time it is the monster that seems to be in step with the Zeitgeist in its combination of the worst in dog and man, while his creator who is at odds with the society he finds himself in and his own creation.Although very strongly not recommended for cat lovers there is broad comedy here in line with Bulgakov's other satirical stories and plays while the theology of the later Master and Margarita has yet to make an appearance.
Kara mizah, az biraz bilim kurgu, sovyet toplumuna gönderme vs.Enteresan bir kitap.1988 yapımı bir de Filmi varmış. Ben daha izlemedim.
Mikhail Bulgakov is one of the most overlooked Russian satirists/geniuses of the 20th century.I’ve read two works of his now, and both have floored me with the scathing cleverness of their satire, the sheer originality of their ideas, and the fact that both these Russian texts – written during Stalin’s reign – are instantly accessible to the modern reader.The Heart of a Dog (1925) is a short blast against the ‘New Soviet Man’ – a comment on the declining power of Communism and the changing tides in the Soviet power structure, which up until then, had been an excruciating series of proletarian rebellions and bourgeois sanctions.Most importantly, though – the book is utterly hilarious.
Είναι το δεύτερο βιβλίο του Μπουλγκάκοφ που διαβάζω, μετά τον μαιτρ, που δεν μου άφησε καλές εντυπώσεις, ίσως λόγω της κακής ποιότητας της έκδοσης, ίσως της μετάφρασης. Η καρδιά σκύλου όμως ήταν ένα πολύ ευχάριστο ανάγνωσμα, με την εγγυημένη μετάφραση της Ελένης Μπακοπούλου και πήρα μια πολύ κάλυτερη γεύση για το ταλέντο του συγγραφέα. Τα έργα επιστημονικής φαντασίας δεν είναι το φόρτε μου, αλλά όταν σε κάτι απλό (όπως η φάρμα των ζώων) προσδίδεται μια πολιτική διάσταση με σατιρικό τόνο, θεωρώ πως είναι απόλυτα επιτυχημένα.
I'm not even sure where to begin...there is so much going on in this little novella (particularly concerning the Russian government and its sociopolitical policies in the 1920's and beyond), that I'm be afraid that discussing it in detail would only serve to highlight my ignorance on the subject.
Me highlighting my ignorance on the subject...I decided to read this story simultaneously with The Master and Margarita with the hope of completing The Heart of a Dog first.
It also seems to indicate that complete and utter selflessness/self-control are not and will never been intrinsic qualities of the human race, as seen in the degradation of the (un?)fortunate dog-man-thing, Sharik.
Ah Bulgakov... Günü güzelleştiren bir okuma oldu. Film gibi başladı, öyle de bitti. Malum, taşlama konusunda Bulgakov'un eline kolay kolay su dökülemeyeceğini biliyoruz. Burada da maharetini konuşturan yazar, ortaya eğlenceli, zekice örülmüş, düşündüren çok iyi bir kara mizah örneği koymuş. Başında yazarı yazmasa da, okuduğumda bu Bulgakov'un eseri diyebilirdim. Bulgakov'un verdiği bu hissi seviyorum. Bana kalırsa yazarı okumaya başlamaya çok uygun bir eser. Keşke 'Usta ile Margarita'yı okumadan önce okumuş olsaydım dedim.Kesinlikle okuyun. 7.5/10
Bulgakov, the doctor, examines the Frankenstein theme, laying bare the nature of the revolutionary, what is imbedded in his heart, what lives in his brain.
You can take a man out of the streets but you can’t take the streets out of the man.This is the conclusion, after a ground-breaking organ transplantation, that leave us with a talking, swearing, boozing and generally ill-behaving dog.Now for the training, which turns out to be a mouthful … what dog will ever suppress the instinct to chase cats?!
Bulgakov draws a fine picture of what it is like to be bourgeois in a country that recently has turned a “workers union”.
Especially when you have to rummage the streets of Moscow, avoiding the bitter proletariat who will kick you and curse you and throw boiling water on your hide, just because you want a bite to eat.
So you take kindness from whatever hand that offers; and how could anyone expect a good dog like you to do otherwise?
No, it's not your fault that the procedure inexplicably transmogrifies you into a human.It's hard to be a good dog when you're a human.
No, it ain't easy being a dog.
No, it ain't easy being a dog.
Especially when that's how everyone wants to treat you.
Treat you like a dog.
There is a photograph of me sitting in a gutter in Paris reading this novel. I am rather skinny in the photo. What isn't conveyed is that I was losing my mind. I was abroad and it was a mistake. There was considerable business requiring my immediate attention back home. There I was. All was resolved upon my return. I think about the novel periodically, especially given the currency of Bulgakov in certain circles. It would be pithy to suppose that this portal concerning transformation was crucial in my own adjustment of status. It wasn't, but that's life.
Συνοπτικά ήταν έξυπνο, σατιρικό και ανάλαφρο. Ωστόσο, αν δεν ξέρει κάποιος την κατάσταση που επικρατούσε στη σοβιετική Ρωσία δεν θα το εκτιμήσει όπως του αρμόζει. Σπεύδω να ψάξω την ταινία για την οποία έχω ακούσει τα καλύτερα.
Tek yorumum "Bulgakov okumak şahane" şeklinde olacak. Sıradaki gelsin :)
Özellikle kara mizah eserlerini okuduğumda, edebiyatın etki alanının ne kadar geniş olduğunu bir kez daha hissedip mutlu oluyorum. Rus devriminin hicvedildiği kitapta yeterli altyapı olmadan yapılan geçişlerde ortaya ne tehlikeli olayların/karakterlerin çıkacağı güzel bir şekilde aktarılmış. Aslen doktor olup sonradan kendini tamamen edebiyata veren Bulgakov, mesleğinin verdiği birikimle bir köpeğin insana dönüşümünü okurun gözünü tırmalamadan anlatmış. Bunun yanısıra seçilen yan karakterler simgeledikleriyle üstlerine düşen görevi yerine getirmiş. Sistem eleştirilerinin başına gelen kaçınılmaz son bu kitabında yıllarca yasaklanmasına neden olmuş. Ancak konu itibarıyla evrensel olduğu için hangi devirde yayınlanırsa yayınlansın hem ilgi çekici hem de güncellik içeren bir roman kendisi.
وقال الكلب: "علينا أن نعويجوزيه ساراماجو - كتاب الأصواتعااو عاااو فرررررشارِكرواية قصيرة للأديب الرو
Bulgakov'un öyküsü, karakterleri ve tarzı çok etkileyici.Frankenstein-vari deneylerle ilgilenen saygın bir bilim adamını ve üzerinde deney yaptığı sokak köpeği Şarik'i anlatan kitap, gerçekten eğlenceli bir tarza ve akıcı bir anlatıma sahip.
Rus devrimi ve karşı-devrimi düşüncelerinin çarpıştığı ve Rus toplumunun dönüşüm yaşadığı karmaşık bir zaman hikayenin fonuna yer alıyor.
Şarik ürkek ve yaralı bir sokak köpeğinden, Şarikov'a eğlenceli ve düşündürücü şekilde dönüşüyor.
Dönüşümüyle insan doğasını ve psikolojisini inceliyor ve ruh kavramını fizyolojik temellere dayandırmaya çalışıyor gibi.
Açıkça çarpıtılmış fizyolojik dönüşümü ile bir köpeğin bile toplumun (en azından dönemin Rus bürokrasisinin) bir yerinde bir birey olabileceğini akıcı bir dille aktarıyor.Eğlenceli ve akıcı bir kitaptı, tavsiye ederim.
One of the great tragedies of life is that so few people outside Russia have read this, and that I can't imagine any translation could even come close to capturing the setting and language of the original.Professor Preobrazhensky is searching for a way to restore youth.
In his research process, he experiments with replacing a dog's hypothalamus with that of a man, but instead of making the dog younger, the procedure gradually turns the dog into a man, with horrifying results.

