https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60063.Mapp_and_Lucia
A charming, witty novel from 1935. Lucia, a beautiful young widow, moves to a Sussex village long dominated by the spinster Miss Mapp; their battle for social supremacy pulsates with refined vindictiveness that—no shame here—delighted me, several times to the point of squealing aloud. Amid the hilarity, I thought differently and deeply about things like nicknaming, pet expressions and "home". I loved this a thousand times more than expected.
I love the Lucia series so much that I only permit myself to read one book from it a year.
If you're a fan of Cranston, Barbara Pym or Nancy Mitford, the Lucia series is like finding pure gold.
If Dowager Violet Crawley is up your alley, then please help yourself to these books.
The writing is snappy, brilliant, and delivers insult after insult properly wrapped in a layer of the thinnest politeness.
It's small village politics, augmented by Rolls-Royces, maids, lunches and new fads.
These books are hilarious and will increase your appetite for the next one.
"Miss Mapp had long been considered, by others as well as herself, the first social citizen of Tilling, and though she had often been obliged to fight desperately for her position, and had suffered from time to time manifold reverses, she had managed to maintain it, because there was no one else of so commanding and unscrupulous a character. Then this alien from Riseholme had appeared and had not so much challenged her as just taken her scepter and her crown..."I am so sad this book is finished
"Miss Mapp had long been considered, by others as well as herself, the first social citizen of Tilling, and though she had often been obliged to fight desperately for her position, and had suffered from time to time manifold reverses, she had managed to maintain it, because there was no one else of so commanding and unscrupulous a character.
I can see glimpses of hatred and malice in her.""And you'll fight her?" asked Georgie eagerly."Nothing of the kind, my dear," said Lucia.
And the way all the characters from Riseholme and Tilling come together in this novel, like a DC Comic mashup, was so ahead of its time considering it was written in 1931.
Perhaps my favorite series of all that I try to reread once a year.
But because everyone in the book finds the minutia of their everyday (wealthy and rather pampered) existence so fascinating, it becomes of immense import to the reader as well.
I remember how upset I originally was when Lucia and Georgie left Riseholme for Tilling, because I was going to miss Daisy and Lady Abermarle, but really the series truly gets going once the rivalry with Mapp heats up.
Plus, Irene is my favorite character after Lucia.
Also occurred to me, visiting this book for perhaps the dozenth time, that the friendship between Lucia and Georgia is the greatest in literature.
Each scheming and plotting to be the centre of their social circle, their machinations against each other must always be concealed (barely and, usually, ineffectually) by the appropriate observances of the middle and upper-middle class conventions of a "between-the-wars" England at its most parochially self-absorbed.The other villagers are by turns allies, pawns and antagonists in the war between Mapp and Lucia.
However, Mapp's malevolence usually causes her to overplay her hand and, just when she seems about to trump her opponent, she makes some awful gaff that Lucia turns to her advantage.There is a well-observed cast of satellite characters, notably Lucia's best friend and companion, the effeminate and endearing Georgie Pilling, the only person of steadfast and unwavering loyalty amongst the two main combatants' followers.I absolutely loved this book and cannot recommend it too highly.
The Lucia series should be read by anyone who is a fan of Jane Austen or Angela Thirkell!Nov/Dec 2017 reread: I think that this is my favorite in the series. It would perhaps not be as funny to someone who hadn't read the previous books but the ongoing manoevers between Lucia & Elizabeth Mapp in order to gain social ascendency in the village of Tilling are hilarious as are the reactions of the villagers.
(That's a terrible sentence, sorry.) It was all very well written, and sharply intelligent (the writing, not the characters), and there was an occasional comeuppance that made me whistle softly – but upon finishing it I felt a little dirty, as if I'd just watched an episode of some show about something named Snooki.While I am forced to admire the writing, I still wanted to throw the book against a wall many times.
Battle of the titans! This is probably my favorite book in the Mapp and Lucia series. When Lucia moves in to Mapp's "territory," sparks are bound to fly -- and they do, spectacularly, but of course overlaid with a layer of civility that masks true feeling. Benson is better at dissecting (to hilarious effect) the petty jealousies and need for societal approval that drive us all. He does it in a way that leaves no doubt that he's fonder of people with these flaws than those with aspirations to be above it all.
I'm midway through the series, and I'm totally hooked! It's hard to explain why the conniving social sparring amongst snobbish pretentious idle rich Brits in the '20s & '30s is so fascinating— but I've always enjoyed a Jeeves & Wooster romp. This is how Bertie's Aunt Agatha lives.
Still hold up as a favorite, got me through surgery and a hospital stay...;-)
Like reading a camp, bitchy version of Wodehouse in which every single character is a frightful, parochial snob. Delightful.
A comedy of manners, of gossip and of one-up-womanship, it concerns a small English village in the 1930s and its residents.
And a new addition to the town who stirs up interest and tension as her rivalry with the current social Queen instantly starts a series of escalating comic escapades.
Adored this from start to finish, and may seek out the other titles in the series.
Just right for someone looking for a light read that will keep them smiling wryly and shaking their heads at some outrageously underhand females trying to win the social war.
These books are really well known and loved, but I'm totally new to them.
(Reminds me of a friend who as a child thought she had discovered a very unknown and small band called "The Beatles" of which she must be one of a few elite fans).It centers around Emmeline Lucas (Lucia) and Elizabeth Mapp.
Lucia is new in town and Mapp can't stand for her to become the center of social life in small town Tilling.
It was very funny and I enjoyed it, but after awhile I did get a little tired of their subterfuge.
Constantly trying to one-up each other was just tiring!
One of my favorite series of all times, perhaps the absolute favorite.
Life was a series of tea parties, bridge parties, garden parties (sometimes), church, etc.
And don't forget the daily trip to the market.This particular volume concerns the relationship between Mapp (the queen bee of town) and Lucia (new girl on the block) when that position is usurped by Lucia .
Mapp doesn't take it well, and attempts in many ways to undermine Lucia.
I recommend it heartily to anyone who enjoys a good read about a much simpler time.
I liked Lucia, exasperating and conceited as she was, in her own books.
I liked Elizabeth Mapp,choleric and impossible,in her own book.
He only wrote 6 books, but when my original anthology fell apart from re-reading I bought the whole set on Kindle.
Like so many of my favourites, they are old, old books - Mapp's garden room, where he wrote the books, was bombed during WW2 and never rebuilt.
There was a TV series that I thought very good, although I hated the portrayal of Lucia - if you saw it, and liked it, you'll like the books.
Probably 4.5 but goodness this was so enjoyable!
An intriguing story already, but when you know the two ladies are arch enemies and would do anything to outsmart their rival, you have a great book that will make you chuckle from start to finish.The two arch rivals of a small seaside town filled with snobbery certainly out-do each other in this one, going to war over recipes, water colour paintings and pretty much everything else that comes to mind.
One of my farourite holiday reads, I return to this book every couple of years or so.Women don't start wars with guns and bombs - they have no need for such trifles; one withering look from Lucia will silence any opponent - as will one lopsided smile from Mapp the Terrible.
Book Four of the series, in which these two indomitable ladies meet for the first time and square off like King Kong versus Godzilla at a garden party.
If you could only keep one book of the series, this is it.
If Mapp or Lucia were ever truly hurt, truly wounded by the other, these books would be distinctly unpleasant affairs.
Happily, to paraphrase Dorothy Parker's famous review of a certain actress who would have made a marvellous Lucia, “The emotions of Miss Mapp and Mrs. Lucas run the gamut from A to B.” Which is precisely why they’re so funny.
This is the story of Mrs Emmeline Lucas, aka Lucia, used to being queen of her society in the village of Riseholme.
When she moves to Tilling, a pretty village by the sea, she tries to wrest social control from the hideous Miss Mapp and a battle for social supremacy ensues.
It's not a socially or politically engaged work, but then you wouldn't expect it to be, any more than you would with Wodehouse.The end is a bit silly, but it doesn't stop being funny.
There is no doubt that while the sickly sweet and petty Elizabeth Mapp and the pretentious pseudo-intellectual Lucia are fun alone in the 1920s novels, they don't really fizz and bang until they're in the same book.
"Mapp and Lucia" is much better than either of the solo Lucia books or Miss Mapp, as the ladies, adoring each other on the surface, engage bitter and remorseless war.Benson pretty quickly shows his partiality to Lucia, and as a result she is much less awful - still awful, but more sympathetically and sometimes magnificently awful.
I adore these books - absolutely love Georgie and his bibelots.
You just get lost in this tiny world of pugs, flowers, Queen this and that and just queens.
When "modern life" gets just too Blackberried, MSNed, and poked into a neat package of downloads, I just escape and read these over and over.
These are just wonderful and well-written escapes into a much daintier time.
No one has indigestion, there are no tiny blue pills, and no one discusses anything embarrassing - refreshing after even watching the evening news with its onslaught of drug company prods for our ailments.
This is as close to a perfect comic novel as I've ever read.
Of course, it helps that I'm a fan of the small-English-village genre.
(Why yes, I used to watch those English comedies on PBS on Sunday nights!) Benson brings together the two women who rule their respective villages and the result is a clash of the Titans on a small scale.
Both Mapp and Lucia want to be the Queen bee, but of necessity they both have to pretend that they have perfect manners and no hard feelings toward one another.
After watching the really rather fantastic series, the thought of reading the book it was based on had me a bit dubious as to whether it'd ruin one or the other for me. How wrong I was, if ever there was a perfect adaption to television from such a well written, witty and charming book, this is it. Mapp & Lucia is sorely under appreciated in both forms, and I honestly couldn't recommend it more, especially to those who enjoy other similar series in the genre such as Jeeves & Wooster.

She finds these things interesting because her friend and rival Lucia has recovered from mourning her lost husband, and is starting to throw herself back into the events of the village with her accustomed vigour.
Lucia invests energy into things that otherwise would be empty – theatrics, gossip, faddy exercise, playing Mozart, whatever it might be.
Superficiality saves Lucia, protects her from the pain of losing her husband and allows her to enjoy Mozart and life again.
Lucia would chivvy such readers along and tell them firstly that nothing is ordinary; and secondly that when things get serious, the ordinariness of life will come along and save you.
Quick, fun read; pretty much what I expected from the description on the back.
It's sharp and clever and occasionally kind, but the characters aren't really vivid or lovable enough, or the prose quite brilliant enough, for it to be a really lasting classic.
Wodehouse's characters aren't any more well-rounded, but his writing is a lot more, mm, deathlessly characteristic.)Was touched by the part where Lucia rings Georgie and he weeps, but not because he has thus been deprived of his inheritance.
I'd read other Lucia books if I could find them.
I love the Mapp and Lucia books, they're very funny comedies.
In some ways they remind me of Jane Austen's novels, although they're set in the 1930s and they don't have any romantic elements.
But, like Austen's novels, the books are set in small villages and they are wonderfully observed.
I recommend them to anyone who likes social comedies.
And when you've read them all, there are two more, written by Tom Holt, who continued the tale of Mapp and Lucia after E F Benson's death, with the blessing of the Benson estate.
The Tom Holt books are Lucia in Wartime and Lucia Triumphant.
This is one of the funniest and most delightful books I have ever read.
We all know people who make martyrs of themselves, and Lucia is the prime example.
Always scheming and quite determined to be top of the pile, she loves to blame others for inflicting all the hard work on her.
Lucia will stop at nothing to be the most important and illustrious lady in the village, nay, the county.
I love the faux friendships in this book.
Everybody in this book basically hates everybody else, which makes for some hilarious situations.
2018 Kindle ebook reread. 2015: Listening to the Prunella Scales audiobook again. Still marvelous!2014 listening to the Prunella Scales audiobook. A fantastic performance. I believe this is the best of the Mapp & Lucia books."Miss Mapp" and "Mapp and Lucia" are where Benson really hits his stride. It's almost as if he was practicing how to write Elizabeth Mapp with his early versions of Lucia. Then when he got her right, Lucia could become the glorious, annoying, infuriating character that she was meant to be. And she is all of those things, and more.While Miss Mapp is simply loathsome.

