https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191139.Oh_The_Places_You_ll_Go_
The places I'll go with him and see!!Next day he calls and tells meHe can't wait anymore!I ask him if he's okay?If his favorite team didn't well score?He says he wants meto read the poem againThat he couldn't stop smilingBe it highway or on the lane!I remind him that IJust yesterday, read the poem But he won't listenGoing on saying Please after my name.And that was the day my friends!The day I got to know that'Archit is naughtier than naughty'More than Archit Jr. who's yet to come on this planet!So I say goodbye Folks,This is how the story goesI'll go, read him next poemsuntil he makes me speechless with a rose!Previous Review:One must read Oh, The places You'll Go, I was in computer lab and had to do some programs, we were not allowed to do anything else except programming.
A gift on my high school graduation...
something I will always treasure.
It answers all of life's questions for a young one trying to decide their future!As a children's book, the rhyming and cartoon-like at helps keep focused attention.
But it's the words that are so simple, yet so evocative in their minds.
People quote it both in fun and in sincerity when thinking about what to do.It's books like this that help children figure out that reading is not just educational, it's fun.
I don't have children, but I've read it to a few younger cousins and some kids I babysat from time to time.
"It's opener therein the wide open air.Out there things can happenand frequently doto people as brainyand footsy as you.And then things start to happen,don't worry. Don't stew.Just go right along.You'll start happening too."-Dr. Seuss I had never read this book from cover to cover, but I was familiar with it from quotes used in speeches and publications. The dean of our college read us a passage to close the graduation ceremony, and even then I did not appreciate how appropriate that passage wa
I had never read this book from cover to cover, but I was familiar with it from quotes used in speeches and publications.
I had forgotten about this book until just recently when I came across a copy and began to read to pass the time.
Upon finishing, I was surprised and deeply touched at how simple yet sincere the book's message was.
While the book is cute and very appropriate for children, I think it takes an adult to understand and sympathize with the message.
It's a book that reminds you life is hard and can be lonely, but that despite the difficulties, we can all persevere.
They'll be ok!Except when they don't.Because, sometimes, they won't.I'm afraid that some times you'll play lonely games too.Games you can't win'cause you'll play against you.All alone!Whether you like it or not,Alone will be somethingyou'll be quite a lot.At this point, I'm usually bleary-eyed, in case you were curious.And exactly what is this guy a Dr. of, anyway?!He's certainly not Dr. Feelgood!But on you will gothough the weather be foul.On you will go though your enemies prowl.On you will go though the Hakken-Krak howl.Onward up manya frightening creek,though your arms may get soreand your sneakers may leak.Holy Shit!
All aboard!!!  FASTEN YOUR SEATBELTS!  Congratulations!  Today is your day,  You’re off to Great Places!  You’re off and away! No wonder this was the last tale by Dr. Seuss while he was alive (there are two more books, published posthumously)……and I am sure that he is now visting great places!This is a charming tale about the journey of each of us in our lives, BUT......what I really liked was that Dr. Seuss don’t lie to us.He exposes during the rhythmic narrative, that not everything will be p
You’re off to Great Places!
You’re off and away!
No wonder this was the last tale by Dr. Seuss while he was alive (there are two more books, published posthumously)……and I am sure that he is now visting great places!This is a charming tale about the journey of each of us in our lives, BUT......what I really liked was that Dr. Seuss don’t lie to us.He exposes during the rhythmic narrative, that not everything will be peaches-and-ice-cream in life, that we’ll have enjoyable moments in life, BUT......also testing times, we’ll have happy events, but also sad crisis, along the journey, not matter if good or bad, if we keep walking forward, we always will be meeting new places, new people, new moments……building full and complete lives.What are you still doing here?Engage!You have places to go!!!
“Oh, the Places You’ll Go!” is easily a book that every child should read whenever he or she are in a slump!Basically, this book is about taking charge of your own life facing difficulties in your life such as loneliness, fear, and confusion, with a straight face and taking on life ahead of you in a lyrical prose that children will easily appreciate!Oh my goodness!
For one thing, Dr. Seuss’ writing is clearly more memorable in this book as he tells children who are on their way to facing life ahead of them on their own to have positive attitudes and face their fears head on!
Written for children from age 1 to 100. Embrace new adventures and changes in your life!
”You have brains in your head. You have feet in your shoes. You can steer yourself any direction you choose.”  I was not expecting a kid’s book to be so incredibly profound?? This picture book follows an unnamed narrator (“You”) as they take off on the journey called life. This journey takes them through indecision, anxiety, loneliness and failure—- but also excitement, triumph and happiness.This was a really beautiful story. I loved that it wasn’t sugar-coating things for kids. Seuss understoo
I was not expecting a kid’s book to be so incredibly profound??
This picture book follows an unnamed narrator (“You”) as they take off on the journey called life.
This journey takes them through indecision, anxiety, loneliness and failure—- but also excitement, triumph and happiness.This was a really beautiful story.
I loved that it wasn’t sugar-coating things for kids.
Seuss understood that hard times would happen, and he wanted kids to prepare without being scared.
The illustrations, rhyming and general excitement keep the story interesting.
I didn’t mind reading this one each time small-fry asked.Kid Lit Experiment 2018 #5
How did I ever miss this gem! Love Dr. Seuss!
Upon the graduation of my firstborn last weekend, I decided to really read this book for the first time.
I read many Dr. Seuss books to him over the years, but somehow this one never made it home with us.
It's pretty amazing how deep truths can be conveyed in such simple rhymes.
Seuss warns of setbacks in life, the danger of getting stuck in the dreaded "waiting place," the inevitability of lonely times, and the importance of remembering that life is a "Great Balancing Act." Simply brilliant!Excerpt:Today is your day!Your mountain is waiting.So...get on your way!
WrensReads Review:THIS BOOK HAS SUCH DEEP MEANINGS IN IT.It touches on anxiety and depression like you wouldn't believe, but in a nice way.It wants you to get up!
Do the things you want to do!
Don't Wait!
Don't fright!
Seriously Wren, stop rhyming.He touches on things involving how things won't go your way and you'll get down.
Or you'll be worried you picked the wrong path.
He continues on why it is okay and that it will be alright!
They should memorize this book.
Everyone should own, memorize and live by this book.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
I never enjoyed Dr. Seuss books.
Perhaps that is why Disney books are so popular in the US and A.A. Milne with his irascible Eeyore and annoyingly mother-y Kanga are still more popular in the UK?When my son was too young to understand the sense of words but liked the rhyme, I read him The Song of Hiawatha and other poetry with fun rhythms.
I don't think it would have made any difference if I had read him Seuss instead, but it made a big difference to me, I enjoyed reading Hiawatha out loud.
...a most useless place:The Waiting Place......for people just waiting.Waiting for a train to goor a bus to come, or a plane to goor the mail to come, or the rain to goor the phone to ring, or the snow to snowor the waiting around for a "Yes" or "No"or waiting for their hair to grow[or, in the most cases, waiting for Godot!]Everyone is just waiting.NO!That's not for you!Somehow you'll escapeall that waiting and stayingYou'll find the bright placeswhere Boom Bands are playing!
Andyou know what you know.And YOU are the guy who’ll decide where to go.”“You’ll get mixed up,of course, as youalready know.You’ll get mixed upwith many strange birdsas you go.So be sure when you step.Step with care and greattact and remember that……Life’s A GreatBalancing Act.”“And will you succeed?Yes!
You will, indeed!(98 and ¾ percent guaranteed.)KID, YOU’LL MOVEMOUNTAINS!”
Now first of all let me explain from the startthat I love Dr. Seuss, he had such a good heart.His stories are nonsense but also have meaning,the wisdom found here is quite surely worth gleaning.Some say it's for children; they'll love it a lot,but it's everyone's book, so don't think that it's not.In fact I would say that while kids love the tale,the adults will understand more, without fail.It's once you have been through this life fully grownthat you understand not just the pictures alone,or the rhymes with good rhythm, the pacing well pacedbut the hard bits and problems that humans must face.But it also gives hope and support to the reader,lets them feel quite successful, a star and a leader -that they too can decide where their life wants to go;reassures them it's fine if they really don't know.So please read this book at top haste and full speed,but the actual book, not just posts on Goodreads;the pictures are needed along with the text......but I'll stop rhyming here so you won't all get vexed.
This is a children's story book, but reading this feels like Dr. Seuss not only wrote this for young readers. He also deliberately target adult readers because the way it gives hope; it reminds us of the challenges and the success we might experienced on our journey in our lives.
A book for children and adults, it celebrates and instructs the reader on life's possible journey as you make your decisions along the way.
Some of your journey will be adventurous and bright, while it may also be confusing, waiting, dark and scary.
You can steer yourself any direction you choose." And in the end, "KID, YOU'LL MOVE MOUNTAINS!" This upbeat book about life's adventures and trials will entertain as well as educate readers.
The rhyming keeps a jingle in the mind of the little character's journey on the pages.
This book gives hope to the reader about the life decisions they will make along the way.
This is a lovely book and quite different in many ways to much of Dr Seuss's classic children's books.
The good and the bad along with the happy and the sad - as it were.In the hands of so many other authors / illustrators this could have been merely trite and vapid nonsense, giving us supposedly motivational thoughts in that almost always clichéd and stale way that we have all seen so many times before.
None of which is at all surprising.Dr Seuss gives us apparently simple thoughts and observations on the journey of life, set down in rhyme in a seemingly straightforward but profoundly wonderful way - accompanied by his usual lovely illustrations.A classic Dr Seuss book and one definitely not to be missed.
THIS SIMPLE CHILDREN'S BOOK ISThis book has more depth, more heart, and is more inspiring than a lot of YA and NA  books I could mention, all put together. This is probably my best Dr. Seuss book yet.  You will come to a place where the streets are not marked.Some windows are lighted. but mostly they're darked. But mostly they're darked. A place you could sprain both your elbow and chin! Do you dare to stay out? Do you dare to go in?How much can you lose? How much can you win?”You'll get mixed u
You will come to a place where the streets are not marked.Some windows are lighted.
A place you could sprain both your elbow and chin!
Do you dare to stay out?
Do you dare to go in?How much can you lose?
How much can you win?”You'll get mixed up, of course, as you already know.
You'll get mixed up with many strange birds as you go.
So be sure when you step.
Step with care and great tact and remember that Life's a Great Balancing Act. Just never forget to be dexterous and deft.
I've had this book on my dresser for a long time, siting there saying read me, but my brain saying, but it's a kid book!
Like, little, little kid book!
So it sat there, in the waiting place.
But in reality, I was in the waiting place.
My god, I've been in the waiting place.
Just passing time.
Just waiting.
Just waiting.
Just waiting.
Who needs the gurus, preachers, god, etc, when you have this book.
I got goosebumps reading this book.
A little, little kid book has given me goosebumps.
Oh, all the places you'll shall now go.
I bought this for my youngest son who is graduating from high school in a few days.
“You're off to Great Places!Today is your day!Your mountain is waiting,So...
get on your way!”The journey of the book is based on the journey of life, with some speed bumps along the way,“I'm sorry to say sobut, sadly, it's truethat Bang-upsand Hang-ups can happen to you."But it never stops inspiring.“And will you succeed?Yes!
You will, indeed!(98 and 3/4 percent guaranteed.)”And my personal favorite,“You have brains in your head.
You have feet in your shoes.
You can steer yourself any direction you choose.
What a truly wonderful book!
"I'm afraid that some times you'll play lonely games too. Games you can't win 'cause you'll play against you. All Alone! Whether you like it or not, Alone will be something you'll be quite a lot." I graduated yesterday and I received 3 copies of this book as gifts. I, of course, had seen this book around a lot, but I never actually read it. Well, right now I had the chance to sit down and read through it. And maybe I'm just overtly emotional, but I found myself tearing up reading Dr. Seuss' wor
"I'm afraid that some times you'll play lonely games too.
Games you can't win 'cause you'll play against you.
I graduated yesterday and I received 3 copies of this book as gifts.
I, of course, had seen this book around a lot, but I never actually read it.
When he wrote this book I'm sure he had all ages on his mind.
This book is indeed good for children, but I think those who can get the most out of this have to be high-school and/or college graduates.
I already read through it twice and I'm sure I'll do it many times over.
I love this book.
I mean, in general I love Dr. Seuss and all, but this one really touched me and its the only one I own of his.I bought this and it came just as I had my two lower wisdom teeth removed.
Lets just say there were a few complications and I was stuck in bed for over a week eating baby food and ground up things (have you ever had meat ground up in the food processor..ICK!) and my mom would read things to me.
And this is one of the things she would read.
YAY Dr. Seuss!!!
Had to read this one again. I haven't read it in so many years, but Jennifer Niven made me want to go back to the Bright Places; so I jumped on board and bought me the E-book!Now I'm really considering getting myself all the old favorites to add to my shelves.
Don't stew.Just go right along.You'll start happening too.OH!THE PLACES YOU'LL GO!You'll be on your way up!You'll be seeing great sites!You'll join the high fliers!who soar to high heights.You won't lag behind, because you'll have the speed.You'll pass the whole gang and you'll soon take the lead.Wherever you fly, you'll be best of the best.Wherever you go, you will top all the rest.Except when you don't.Because, sometimes, you won't.I'm sorry to says sobut, sadly, it's truethat Bang-upsand Hang-upscan happen to youYou can get all hung upin a prickle-ly perch.And your gang will fly on.You'll be left in a Lurch.You'll come down from the Lunchwuth an unpleasant bump.And the chances are, then,that you'll be in a Slump.And when you're in a Slump,you're not in for much fun.Un-slumping yourselfis not easily done.You will come to a place where the streets are not marked.Some windows are lighted.
You have brains in your head.You have feet in your shoes.You can steer yourself.any direction you choose.You're on your own. And you know what you know.And YOU are the guy who'll decide where to go.
Thank you Pooja for reading me this one over the phone. Life wouldn't have been any better without you.
This book contains a very powerful inspirational message for children and adults alike.
It contains great wisdom about the trials and tribulations of life with a powerful message of life.It contains a warning that we all need to heed: Except when you don't.
Always at the basis is a very powerful message of hope :"Kid , you'll move mountains".
Unlike "Solla Sollew" , Dr Seuss acknowledges in this book that sometimes when all the options are unattractive we need to head right out of town.And how right he is.And as in all of Dr Seuss' remarkable books , it is filled with the most beautiful , dreamlike illustrations.A must read for every child and adult!
My children and grandchildren absolutely adored the Dr. Seuss books so I will give this book Five stars. Recommended.
This is truly my favorite book, but it didn't come so until well after I was a kid.
My sister was sitting not too far way, reading Oh, The Places You'll Go to my niece who was 8 at the time.
With each page I found myself identifying with the journey of the main character.
I understood the circumstances that the main character got himself into, and I knew that my niece did not.
When we're young we hear a kooky story that amuses us.
This transcends age and delivers a story that anyone and everyone can enjoy.
