https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22840421-my-lady-jane
“My lady,” he said gallantly, “I’m willing to stop whenever you are. Perhaps you’d be better off sticking to more womanly pursuits, like embroidery or music or-“She bashed him in the ribs. 4 1/2 stars. This was so much fun. So much fun. Turns out that a good laugh at my country's expense is exactly what I needed right about now.Before you pick up this book, make sure of two things:1) You know what you're about to read. This is a silly, lighthearted historical comedy, full of Monty Python-style
“My lady,” he said gallantly, “I’m willing to stop whenever you are.
Turns out that a good laugh at my country's expense is exactly what I needed right about now.Before you pick up this book, make sure of two things:1) You know what you're about to read.
Like I said, it's a very specific type of book and it won't suit everyone.
I've already said that it's very funny, but for such a light, silly book, it is remarkably well-plotted.
Unlike most funny books, the humour remains constant throughout, never running dry or feeling forced.
It’s not easy to write a review for a book when said book is tightly held against your chest.My Lady Jane is wonderful and so, so magical I want to keep it close to me for an indefinite amount of time.You might wonder: Three authors… three different point of views… three stories intertwined?
Really, it’s all for your entertainment and the many changes that were made to Lady Jane Grey’s real story are so interesting because they’re original and unexpected and definitely diverting.For a book that was written by three different authors, they certainly nailed the point of views.
It was amusing. It was romantic. It was slightly based on medieval history. And it was a gem.I'm dancing like a happy ferret!  “You may think you know the story. It goes like this: once upon a time, there was a sixteen-year old girl named Jane Grey, who was forced to marry a complete stranger (Lord Guildford or Gilford or Gifford-something-or-other), and shortly thereafter found herself ruler of a country. She was queen for nine days. Then she quite literally lost her head.”  As the authors kind
That's why I'm still dancing like a happy ferret.The first thing that occured to me as I started reading My Lady Jane was that Jane's books' titles reminded me of The Sims Medieval.
The sarcastic and hilarious narration, the conspiracies, the strong-minded female characters and the swoonworthy steed are My Lady Jane's trademarks, and I kept giggling and swooning and thanking the book gods for this creation!
4.5 stars This revisionist retelling of Lady Jane Grey's brief reign and romance shouldn't work--but it does!
It's deliriously dotty and clever, with affectionate nods to great absurdist historical comedies like THE PRINCESS BRIDE, Monty Python, and even, I think, Black Adder and LADYHAWKE.
The ridiculously punny humor had me giggling from beginning to end.It's also superbly well-crafted, especially considering the three POVs were written by three different authors, and the historical details and context are inserted with just the right touch.
It's hard to believe a tragic moment in history could be turned into such a delightful confection of joyous alternate history, but The Lady Janies have done it.
I freaking loved this. I'm making everyone I know read it ASAP! P.S. Video review to come
Omg! This book was so damn good!!!!! I can't believe it took me this long to get to it. I'm excited for the next book!! Yay! Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
If you’re looking for a fluffy YA historical fiction that also included fantasy… this is it! I ended up laughing out loud a few times and definitely recommend it. The way the authors decide to retell - and let’s call it what it is - pretty much completely change history, was a lot of fun! I hope they’ll come out with more!
**Some spoiler-y quotes ahead!!!** “Very funny, my lady. And that reminds me"---he pointed a finger at her---"no horse jokes."He was making it too easy. "Ah, my lord, why the long face?""That's it!”  You know..... marrying a horse doesn't sound THAT bad. As long as his name is Gifford Dudley, oh hell yeah. Who knew I would love a book about a girl getting married to a horse, living in a world where people can shape shift into animals with a 16 year old dying king who has never been kissed.This i
Who knew I would love a book about a girl getting married to a horse, living in a world where people can shape shift into animals with a 16 year old dying king who has never been kissed.This is one of the silliest books out there, but it genuinely made me laugh and I can't deny how much I enjoyed this!!!!
16 year old King Edward is dying and gets his cousin, Lady Jane, married to a stranger to secure the throne and keep peace in England.
One point of this book is that Edward’s sexist philosophy is proven wrong...but during the 500 pages he gets help from the women around him COUNTLESS times.
History is cool, man!Bottom line: I’m upset, because I think most of you liked this book...but I disliked the characters, found it boring, thought the historic revisions were silly, felt misled by the synopsis, was bugged by stolen ideas, counted clichés, wished death on characters just so the quasi-will-they-won’t-they would end, and wanted to read about the actual, more interesting, real-life story.
I was expecting semi-serious historical fiction, but it's more like the Monty Python version of the drama between Henry VIII's kids.I don't want to ruin any of the plot, so I'll just say this book is hilarious.
And the new ending could totally still fit in with actual history.There were SO many hilarious references and actual lines pulled straight out of Monty Python and The Princess Bride.
The way everything fit together was so incredibly clever.
I would 100% read this kind of story for every executed monarch throughout history.
I really want one for Marie Antoinette!
3.75⭐Without a doubt, the silliest book I’ve ever read and I loved every joyous moment of it. RTC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DedicationFor everyone who knows there was enough room for Leonardo DiCaprio on that door.And for England. We’re really sorry for what we’re about to do to your history.Oh, I cannot wait for this.
3.75⭐️Without a doubt, the silliest book I’ve ever read and I loved every joyous moment of it. RTC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DedicationFor everyone who knows there was enough room for Leonardo DiCaprio on that door.And for England. We’re really sorry for what we’re about to do to your history.Oh, I cannot wait for this.

She's about to marry a total stranger since her cousin, Edward VI, is dying, and she's next in line for the throne, but all Jane wants to do is read her books.
Meanwhile, Edward has problems of his own to worry about - there are plots to overthrow him, he's slowly dying of "the Affliction," and he's never even kissed a girl!There were ties to the original Jane Grey story, but the world was changed so that the courts raging against each other were "Verities" and "Eðians." Eðians are people who possess the power to shape-shift into animals, but there are those in the court who deem them "beasts" and believe they should be burned at the stake.
Seriously I have to keep reminding myself to come write this review and stop dancing in the kitchen with the dogs or asking the cats if they are actually from the bloodline of King Henry VIII's.*composes self*I was so giddy about everything in this book.
Heaven forbids he marries someone who looks like an animal.Gifford belongs to a group of people called Eðian (eth-y-un).
You'll have to read this book to know the (not so) truth.So if you fit in any of the categories listed above (needs a laugh, likes equality, history buff) then you should read this book.
“Dedication:For everyone who knows there was enough room for Leonardo DiCaprio on that door.And for England. We’re really sorry for what we’re about to do to your history.” Since I read this as an audiobook, I'm at a bit of a loss at to how I'm going to review it. I don't normally listen to audiobooks - they're not really "my thing." (In fact, had I read a physical copy of this, I'd probably would have given it a full five stars.) So just a word of forewarning: this'll probably be a mess. Great
Since I read this as an audiobook, I'm at a bit of a loss at to how I'm going to review it.
I don't normally listen to audiobooks - they're not really "my thing." (In fact, had I read a physical copy of this, I'd probably would have given it a full five stars.) So just a word of forewarning: this'll probably be a mess.
“Dearest Jane, Sorry I made you marry a horse.
A round of applause to these three amazing ladies for writing such an adorable book (and I am so sorry this review doesn't do it justice).
I have the final copy and it. is. glorious.Deckled edges. Spot gloss on the cover and spine. It's so pretty! And there's a ferret on the spine, just above the HarperTeen logo.
I don't think it was quite at the level of loving and engrossing me, but I enjoyed it a lot!I especially loved the characters and the mixing in of actual history with a fictional book.
It was quite well done!I guess this would be labeled a comedy, and it was funny, but I never laughed out loud.
A lot of internal laughing happened, though.THE REFERENCES.
My life is lived in references to books and tv shows and movies so all the little Easter eggs were right up my ally.Overall really enjoyable kind-of historical fiction with a magical twist!
If you told me I would read a story about a girl who marries a man who turns into a horse and then becomes the Queen of England (for nine whole days, may I add) and has to attempt to save all of England I probably would have laughed at you.
Anyway, it all goes as expected until Jane's new husband, Gifford (a.k.a) G, literally turns into a horse the morning after they are married.
The authors did a fantastic job of twisting England's history into a magical, hilarious, heart-warming love story that instantly hooks its readers (it also includes a much happier ending for Lady Jane Grey as well).I mean seriously, JUST READ THIS!
yeah yeah he was anti-feminist but that’s to be expected in that era, and he changed so it’s alllll good.
like i was kinda done with her bullshit near the end of the book.
and like, I get she wasn’t expected to be reading YA fantasy but her obsession with books about literally everything wasn’t exactly relatable.
Like don’t expect executions and gory history and crazy fantasy - read this book when you’re ready to have some fun, relax, and read about (mostly Edward) but Lady Jane :) Now I actually have an interest in her beheading and I’m going to do some research !!
Three of my favorite authors writing a book together? WHAT IS THIS WITCHCRAFT? JUST TAKE MY MONEY.
What I love about this book is its captivating writing style and the charming characters.
When I read this book, I became curious on what really happened to lady Jane Grey's reign for nine freaking days!
But what really made me fall in love with this book is Gifford Dudley or "G" for short.
I also liked this book because the two main characters were kind of falls to the category of "enemies to lovers".
I wasn't expecting to love this book.
I really can't wait to read the next book.
“DedicationFor everyone who knows there was enough room for Leonardo DiCaprio on that door.And for England. We’re really sorry for what we’re about to do to your history.” ― Cynthia Hand, My Lady Jane
3 Stars  "My Lady, please! I am indecent.""You are,"Jane agreed. "Not to mention the fact that you are also unclothed.”  I'm not sure what I expected, but it definitely wasn't an alternate version of history where Lady Jane Grey marries a were-horse. This takes a ton of fun tropes and mixes them together-- using 16th Century England as a starting point. As such, our story beings with Jane Grey's marriage and ascension to the throne. Instead of the Catholic/Protestant debacle this focuses on magi
I'm not sure what I expected, but it definitely wasn't an alternate version of history where Lady Jane Grey marries a were-horse.
As such, our story beings with Jane Grey's marriage and ascension to the throne.
While fun, the whole idea was incredibly silly.
And it never sits well with me when books have to invent some sort of oppression for the heroes to struggle against.
There may be an entire rigged system, but this story is certainly not trying to discuss actual oppression.
It's just an easy way to establish conflict so our heroes can take off on their journeys.
UPDATE 12-13-15The ARCs are here! Please ask the publicity department at HarperTeen, as we do not have very many ourselves to give away! So pretty!UPDATE 10-15-15And WE HAVE A COVER, people. And it is oh-so-beautiful.UPDATE 9-3-15Well, the book is through copy edits, it has a cover (check back for the reveal), a jacket copy, and it is well under way to becoming a real book!It turned out SO GREAT, you guys. It may be the best book, in some respects, that I have ever worked on. Woohoo!
What a DELIGHT. This book was such a treat. I already want to read it all over again. Easiest 5 stars I've given all year. Also, pro tip: if you guys want to read this you should definitely consider the audiobook! One of the best I've ever listened to. Everything about this was just SO DAMN GOOD.
"For everyone who knows there was enough room for Leonardo DiCaprio on that door.And for England. We’re really sorry for what we’re about to do to your history.”   So I was sitting here for a while thinking how to describe My Lady Jane's plot with words so you could get the main idea without spoiling anything. I did not find the right solution. Well, I could've given you quite a good summery, or even the one that GR has is okay, but my ultimate goal is to make you want to read this book so muc
As for our other characters (and we have three main characters as you already guessed: one for every author from our lovely team of ladies), they too have a couple of surprises to show you (and they can't wait for you to start the book) and a very exciting tale to tell.So here's my verdict, folks: if you want a funny (a veryyyyy funny) story to read, and reliable headstrong characters to meet, and to learn the real version of English history - READREADREADREADREADREADREADREADREADREADREADREAD My Lady Jane (the pyre is still burning if you were wondering, no pressure here) and get your dose of fun that will stay with you for a long time after you finish and close the book.
LOVED THIS BOOK! Review coming soon!
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWhen I was in high school, I would sometimes walk over to my best friend's house and we would sit down and write, and then post, fanfiction. Completely off-the-wall AU fanfiction, of the variety that's often known derisively as "crackfics." It was terrible fanfiction and, yes, it's still up - or was, last time I checked. And no, I'm not going to tell you where it was posted or under what name, because it was bad, and I was fifteen when I wr
We had a good time writing it, though - and I think part of the reason we (foolishly) thought it was so great was because we poured a lot of our friendship and humor into the fic, to the point that the experience of writing the fic was greater than the sum of the parts.I feel like that's kind of what happened in MY LADY JANE.
These three authors, who I imagine are probably friends, decided to sit down together and compose their own fic - only it wasn't Ranma 1/2 or Inuyasha fic that they were writing about, but history itself.
I think this is one of the funniest books I’ve ever read 😂
I have to be honest though- I think this is the type of book that will really only appeal to you if this is your type of humor (very much British humor with nods to "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" and even little references to "The Princess Bride" and "Tangled" - yep, the Disney movie.)Not to mention, the story was absolutely charming.
It follows 3 characters - Jane, Gifford, and Edward - who all have their fun little personalities.
This really reminded me of the humor in that book - both are a fun take on historical fiction with the added bonus of magic and comedic relief.
