https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11919.Haunted
For the fans of the series, we all know Eve was not an exemplary human being, a half-demon half-witch who dabbled in dark magic and had a kid with a sorcerer.
The one thing she feels she did right is her little girl and she misses her more than anything.
And if it was true, and this poor guy had been locked up in there for decades, and someone threw in a perfectly good woman, what the hell do you think he'd do with her?
Now I wish you all Happy Reading and many more wonderful books to come!!!
Many times I just wanted to stop with the book and read something else, but then the second half of the book was so amazing that it only took me 4 hours to read it,lol.But first I think the most important thing is to answer this question: Is it necessary to read the books in order?
Well, the answer to this questions are: Yes, the first 4 books should be read in order but you can DEFINITELY skip book 5 because (seriously) NOTHING important happens in this book.
“Your one and possibly only chance to get the answer to every question in the universe, and you’ll ask, ‘Why are bats furry?” A good book but my least favorite so far.
The ending felt a little cheesy but overall the story worked because the pacing was well done with action sequences, a lot went on to keep the story strong, and we get Jaime who I want to read more of.
Even if it's not as good as the first four, I read the books in order and recommend others do as well.
I liked the main character and how she tied into the series as a whole, but I can't say that I enjoyed the story that much.
Objectively, I can look at all of these as story elements that fit the plot and characters, but emotionally and mentally I have to admit that I just did not enjoy reading about them.Despite my lower rating and opinion of this book, I recognize it as an important component to getting the full experience out of this series, now that I have an idea how the afterlife and its beings function.
You might remember Eve as Savannah's half-demon/witch mother who died before the events of the 2nd book in the series "Stolen." In this story Eve is called upon by Fates to pay back their favor by hunting down the Nix - a demon who invades human bodies, compels them to commit atrocities and feeds on the chaos that follows.
Considering that Eve is a ghost and roams the afterlife world, you can understand why I was extremely reluctant to read this book.
In fact, "Haunted" is IMO better than Armstrong's witches' stories.
I put off reading this book, and therefore continuing with the series, because I wasn't convinced that I would find Eve an appealing enough character to want to read an entire book centered around her - I'm happy to have discovered those concerns were unfounded.
Eve made an endearing mother to Savannah and an amusing and caring partner for Kristof (who I was also unconvinced about going in).Although it wasn't a short book, the story felt fast paced and never dragged.
The Nix was an interesting and formidable foe, and the lengths Eve had to go to in order to best her were down right creepy at times (in a good way).
Armstrong, who never does the same thing twice, gave us a Werewolf as the narrator for the first two books in the series: “Bitten” and ”Stolen.“ Then she switched focus to a Witch in “Dime Store Magic” and “Industrial Magic.“ Now, the focus changes once more and in ”Haunted,“ we are introduced to Eve Levine: former witch and supernatural super power, now a ghost.Eve Levine first appeared in “Industrial Magic,“ but now we get to know Eve better, up close and personalAs a dead witch, Eve still holds a lot of power.
Now they want Eve to repay the favour.The Fates need Eve’s help with catching the Nix, a demi-demon who inhabits the bodies of people on the verge of killing.
How is it that by my fifth book in Kelly Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series I am in love with her world building, but still not totally connected to her characters?
The amazing thing about Armstrong is that she creates such in depth and believable paranormal worlds (in this case an afterlife.) Haunted follows the story of Eve Levine, by now everyone reading this series knows she is a half-demon black witch, who also happens to have been dead for the past three years.
And while I liked him quite a bit, like Eve he isn't really a bad guy.
WrensReads Review:I love Eve. I don't relate to her as much as I do Paige, but I do in the sense that I don't always see the "nice" or "good" way to do something as the most logical solution.Eve is dead.As you would know if you have read the previous books.
There is a reason why it is the FIFTH BOOK IN THE SERIES.Anyway,Eve is OBSESSED with trying to protect her daughter Savannah.
The Fates are calling in their favor from the last book, and Eve may or may not like this favor.
I LOVE ELENA and PAIGE and EVE for who they stand alone as.
This one was tough for me, and I'm not sure why.
I don't dislike Eve. I don't dislike Kristof.
I really liked the concept and execution of the Nix...
but this book just felt all over the place, and honestly, it was hard to believe that the "bad Kristof" and the "dark witch Eve" were so completely good guys in the afterlife.
Not sure what to say.
Since I kinda liked it, I'll give it three stars.
It was average at best, especially compared to the first four in the series.
Excited to read another Elena book coming up as the next in the series!
Eve is now my favourite character in this series, she does not give a flying fig but when it comes to it she will do anything for those she loves.
Interesting fact, Eve is left-handed.This novel is masterfully written as I could not begin to try and create a novel about a ghost in the afterlife, but Kelley does it from the off, the introduction into the story leaves you wanting more immediately with just the right amount of mystery in this fantasy mystical world that is Eve Levine.
After irritating the Fates, they assign her to a job catching a demon who escaped from hell.This book was about twice as long as it needed to be.
The plot did pick up at the end, but not enough for me to forgive the first 2/3-3/4 of the book.
Maybe it's just irritating me because I've read so many of them in a row and I need a break from the author.And another thing: I hate authors that throw angels into the mix.
Armstrong actually starting mixing Christian and pagan together: Fates AND angels?
I feel as though this book does a lot to introduce elements that will come into play in the later books in the series, yet as an individual read it is not to the same level as the prior books.For me, I found this one to be a much slower read.
Yes, the storyline was interesting; however, it didn’t feel as though it was moving all that much.Moreover, I found the characters in this one a lot harder to connect with than I did those in the prior books.
Then, the Fates call her in and give her a mission; she must stop the Nix, a demi-demon who has been entering bodies and convincing them to carry out sins they are too nervous to commit without her help.
She has a couple partners for this mission: the angel Trsiel, as well as Kristof Nast, Savannah's father, and her ghost-world lover.
I liked meeting the Fates, and seeing what it was like in the ghost world.
We meet some new characters in this, and for a few seconds, (view spoiler)[Eve actually gets to talk to Savannah, through Paige's body.
I expected this book to center around Jamie the necromancer and instead it was focused on Eve - Savanah's mother who died a few books back.
The entire story was basically a story of Eve's redemption.
She was a "bad witch" in the previous stories and when she was killed she went to some supernatural death realm where she obsessed over her daughter Savanah.
I enjoyed the story well enough but honestly I felt it could have been a little tighter.
I liked that so many other characters had spots in the story but I really felt this was just not as good a story as the others I had read.
It's not that there was any one specific thing wrong with this book. I just couldn't connect with Eve. I'm pretty sure it's my own biases...I love Elena....can't bring myself to like someone else in this series.  It took everything I had to read Paige's books...and I actually LIKED her. I can't say the same for Eve. I only made it about 85 pgs before I gave up. I'm going to pick this one up again at a later date and give it another chance. Ms. Armstrong is a great writer and this is no exception....It's me..not her.
We have come to book five in the Women of the Otherworld series and Armstrong has now shifted her focus to Eve Levine, the half demon black witch who seems to scare the hell out of everyone...even after she has died. Of course, the afterlife isn't exactly what Eve expected, but it isn't so bad, especially as she can watch over her daughter Savannah, even if she can't do anything. But, the Fates have a task for her, capture the demi demon Nix that is wreaking havoc on the human world, but angels
She was just more edgey and ruthless with a willingness to get her hands dirty to get the job done, definitely a different kind of character and witch to Paige, but I ended the book really liking Eve. We also get to meet Kristof Nast, Eve's former lover and Savannah's dad.
It also allowed you to see a different side to Kristof, Cabal sorcerer he may be, but like Eve, he isn't all bad.I also enjoyed their hunt for the Nix, the nasty demi demon that is causing so much mayhem, it made an exciting and action packed story as Eve tracks her down and tries to find a way to stop her.
That’s sort of Eve’s stance on a lot of situations.This story is more of a thriller than anything else — an evil possession demon is on the loose; one who gives her host courage and power to do horrible things like go on a serial murder spree or shoot up a YMCA.
Along with the chase and investigation, we get lots of Eve and Kristoff moments; he still loves her and wants to make an afterlife together with her — one they never got while living, but she’s still hesitant.
She is ripped from her obsessing over her 15-year-old still living daughter by divine influence, and sent on a not so divine mission to catch a rampaging demonic serial killer.What I liked about this book is how it adds to the series.
There were a lot of imaginative solutions to keep the supernatural system running smoothly and I loved reading about the structure of this worlds afterlife.As we are used to, this book is one action-packed hunt to capture the bad guy.
This book seemed a bit like a sidestep from the running plotline.
Imagine a book where the heroine is dead.
Kris thinks she needs something more to focus on in her afterlife, so he's happy when the Fates ask Eve's help in tracking down a ghost-demon who is possessing bodies in the living world, and committing murder.The storyline opens the door to a new supernatural branch: angels.
Yet Armstrong makes it work.
There are worse things than dying and Eve takes real risks to complete her mission.I was also surprised to find I wasn't really put out by the fact that Kristof was no Joe Mangianello.
and getting to know Eve and Kristof.
And I loved Eve more than I thought I would...I forgot how long ago, and I don't know why, but I took a break from this series after reading Industrial Magic.
So it was interesting to read about her, especially since I had no idea what to expect.
And as it turned out, I didn't expect to love her so much.She was so snarky, so strong, so selfless, especially when it comes to her daughter.
One thing I should've expected was how Jaime, the necromancer, though...that's not the point.
The story, especially with Eve trying to find the Nix, was so captivating.I feel like this review is lacklustre...
Paige, Lucas & Savannah are becoming a family and Jaime’s painful crush on Jeremy is so cute.The most significant problem with the book is the need for readers to suspend their disbelief and accept that Eve and Kristoff, who have been ethically challenged to say the least, are now a heroic duo fighting against evil.
While Kristoff does manage to redeem himself to a certain extent after sacrificing himself to save his daughter, the same cannot be said of Eve and it is difficult to care one way or the other about what happens to her.Laural Merlington’s narration is never going to rank amongst my favorites, but I’ve learned to live with it.All in all, not my favorite book in the series but worth the read.
It's been long enough since the last book for me to remember very little about these characters.
Still, good writing, believable characters and good plot, if you like ghosts, witches and demons...
But the story dragged a lot.
This was way too long.
Any suspense was killed by the glacially slow speed of the plot development.
I had to really force myself to keep going through the second half of the book and even skimmed a little.
Have I mentioned that it dragged?
Still, better than a lot of other UF that has come my way.
The notorious Eve Levine gets recruited to be an angel.
Who'da thunk it?Not me, that's for dang sure.
The wonderful thing about dealing with the subject of the afterlife it that the sky is the limit.
If dead supes want to play at being pirates, who is going to stop them?
If you want to erase the memories of evil (serial killer-type) men before banishing them to hell-worlds, with no one but other evil men (to prevent further serial killing), who is going to say you can't?No one, that's who.Plus it makes me happy that Eve and Kristof get to be together.
Bit of an odd instalment to the series. I did enjoy it but it was very random (due to it focusing on the supernatural afterlife), and I had a few problems with the ending. I guess I was also hoping that Eve would be a bit... darker as a character? She wasn't as much of a twisted badass as I was hoping considering her history. She seemed no better or worse than the other female leads in the series. Still gobbled this up very quickly and enjoyed it though. Bring on the next book!
http://books-in-a-storm.tumblr.com/po...
I really liked this one. Plenty of suspense and intrigue, and I like Eve's attitude. She makes for a strong woman, dead or alive. I thought the ending was perfect!
I'm getting addicted to this series.*RTC*
Book 2, Stolen, continued with the same main POV character and also introduced other supernatural beings, like witches, sorcerers, vampires, and so on.
Then came Book 3, Dime Store Magic, with a new main POV character, Paige Winterbourne.
Book 4, Industrial Magic, kept Paige as the main POV character and introduced the Fates, ghosts, and Eve Levine (the ghost of the half-demon/witch mother of Savannah).The new main POV character of this book, Haunted, is Eve Levine.
From the previous book, I knew that ghosts had their own realm that was like the living world in many ways.
Ah, this book in the series is now my new favorite-for now anyway.I can't believe how much I liked Eve and Kristof as the leads.
The biggest surprise, though, was just how much I fell in love with Kristof as a male lead.
As far as male PNR characters go, I can't say that Kristof is sexy, but he is good-looking enough and the way he loves Eve and his children just makes him sexy in his own way.
Especially since Jaime's book is coming up and Eve would certainly be good help to a necromancer.
