https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/894111.People_of_the_Fire
If you liked the series by Auel you will like this one by W. Michael Gear and Kathleen O'Neal Gear. People of the Fire is the second in the series, following People of the Wolf. Situated in a drought stricken land, a small group of people work hard to keep the dreams of their ancestors alive. It's a love story, an adventure story and a view of the people who lived in this era.
A respectful presentation of Native American Beliefs wrapped in an exciting tale!When I read book 1 of this series, PEOPLE OF THE WOLF, I was hooked.
I have never read a book series so deep and compelling; so rich and complete.I am a huge fan of historical fiction and loving archaeology, I was initially drawn to this tale.
The Native American culture, which is so respectfully presented in this book (and the entire series), fascinated me.
I love how the Native American beliefs and lore are expanded in this book, building on book 1 (though each book can stand lone and can be read out of order).
Once I figured out where the writers were going, I enjoyed it, but were I not such a stickler for finishing books I would have abandoned it long ago.It starts off as a ripoff of the first book in the series - a boy with a special destiny and a complicated parentage (Little Dancer/Wolf Dreamer), a wise woman (White Calf/Broken Branch), and some antagonists intent on destroying him (Blood Bear/Heavy Beaver/whoever the other twin was in the first book).
My favorite moment in the book is when he figures out what to do with the tasty grass samples he carries around, and we see how Little Dancer will help lead the People in a more sustainable lifestyle.
This is the second book in the series of the Prehistoric America.The time has moved on from the People of the Wolf.
He thinks that by having that, it will destroy the Red Hand people.Things change and finally Little Dancer melds with Wolf Dreamer reluctantly, having to leave his wife and two daughters.
Will he be able to save the wolf bundle and the people?If you are interested in the prehistoric people that roamed North America, this is the series for you.
People of the Fire is the second book in the First North Americans series by the Gears.
Honestly I read the first book first and was still a little confused at times.Drought is upon the land and has brought strife between the different peoples who dwell in the mountains and the plains.
The plains people have a dominating leader who is striving to make women inferior.
It seems like the men are all either bad evil people, subservient, or young boys with Dreams.
But there was a lot of conflict so those who like action books will probably be ok with this one.
The themes are familiar to regular readers of the First Americans series; climate change, young men coming to grips with their abilities, strong women leading the way.
Put that to one side and you really do have a superbly written tale that takes us through the life of young Little Dancer as he is exposed to the evil actions of men who seek power, sees those he loves suffer and becomes aware of the possibility that he may be destined for greater things and, ultimately, albeit unwillingly, fulfilling his destiny.
We are there at the dramatic outcome, witnessing the power of forces that are greater than ourselves.
Well....I LOVED his first book. Unique and interesting. But reading this one....the plot was EXACTLY the same as the first book. The characters had different names, but not different roles/personalities from the first book. The setting, farther to the south and a couple hundred years later, but again, basically the same...living with, understanding and surviving, mother nature. WTH? Really? And he wrote something like 16 more just like it.
This is the second book of the series. I enjoyed it. It is kind of a soap opera set in prehistoric times, but it creates a plausible world to submerge yourself in that is inspired by archaeological finds and research. It takes place several generations later than the first story, People of the Wolf, and it has characters you can root for and characters you can love to hate. It is somewhat mystical, and tells a story true to human nature. Lots of fun to read.
I am a huge fan of the books by W. Michael Gear and Kathleen O'Neal Gear. Their stories will pull you in and the incredible amount of research the authors have done lend credibility to their work. That research, combined with an immense talent for description that allows readers to feel fully immersed in the time period, will ensure that readers will keep coming back to these authors again and again.I rate this book as 5 out of 5 Stars. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
I started reading this series in high school and got through five of the books. Now there are something like 23, so I have a ways to go. The book reads fast. The characters are interesting and moving, and the fantasy is not overpowering.
The Wolf Bundle chooses; not always well, but in the end, it will have its way. In a time before our memory, people struggle to survive.
story sticks with you
3.5 stars
BOOK SHOULD BE SET ON FIRE.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/14245995
Ok reading though perhaps a bit too much "spirit" talk. Use of modern concepts, such as "minute" is a bit disconcerting. Planr medicine and healing practices would have been interesting to include.Also, iPad Kindle reader doesn't format correctly--missing the section breaks.
The wolf bundle the legacy of first Man has weakened, all it power and prestige has been drawn out.
Blood bear, husband of Clear Water and father of her child, has promised power to get the Wolf Bundle back, but he does not believe in power.
And he continues his miss use of power, and continues to weaken the Wolf Bundle.
A slow go but worth it in the end. People of the Deer caught me a lot harder.
This book had a number of uncomfortable moments, as it covers a time in Native American prehistory where the environment is drastically impinging on the lives of the characters.
Life was pretty gritty, especially during a great drought in the plains and Rocky Mountains, where this book takes place.
I also love that in all these books, the deep drive for the spiritual life is paramount, especially when times are hard.The vulnerability of the Dreamer, his anguish at leaving his human life was done very well, as was the fierce Dance with Power of the woman warrior.
Incredibly disappointing compared to "People of the Wolf".
Rather than gradually introducing the characters, the reader is inundated with them in the first 20-30 pages.
This forced me to return to earlier pages just to get it straight who is who...and who is who relative to the Red Hand and the Short Buffalo.
As another reviewer noted, the plot does eventually get interesting.
Further, the plot turns out to not be all that different from the first book.
If you just finished "People of the Wolf", take a break before reading this so as to not start it with high expectations.
It was the fourth book of this series I have read (no I dont read them in order, but they aren't all tied together) and it was weak overall especially in comparison to People of the Silence and People of the Lakes.
The first 100 pages are great and then the book just gets so boring in the next 200 pages, so boring and luck-luster I was about to put it down but then the last 100 pages picked back up to a great ending so for that...
The book is primarily about a group of people from 2 different tribes that are enemies to each other, the 2 tribes finally make a climaxed ending with each other.
Clear Water conceives a child and runs away from an abusive husband stealing the power bundle.
After Little Dancer is born she is killed while hunting buffalo and the child is fostered with Sage Root.
Little Dancer has the potential of vast power through dreaming.
When Sage Root is killed for resisting a false dreamer, Little Dancer and his foster father go into exile.
As he grows and resists the spirit power, Little Dancer falls in love but eventually takes up his role to save the Wolf Bundle and his people from destruction and save their way of life for the Red Hand and Short Buffalo peoples.
The Gears are the best at what they do, which is writing about pre-history based on archeology, creating a plausible fictional story to help us to understand the facts and thus preserve our own Native American history.
Kathleen and Michael have been my lamplight in becoming a Native American historical fiction writer.
They alone are responsible for peeking my interest in our dim past and have provided a window to that time and place of which they write.
If you desire to see the past of our unknown history of the Native tribes of North America, I advise you to make all of the Gear's books your first choice.
I enjoyed People of the Wolf more, but this was definitely a good sequel.
I am not sure I enjoyed the end though.
With Wolf Dreamer, we understood him giving up on his love - because he died, basically.
For Fire Dancer, he could have went back home.
The Epilogue made it worse,when you realize she lived the rest of her life alone, waiting on him.
It was a rather sad ending, when you consider she was so important to the Power by teaching him Love.
It was great up until the very end, in my opinion.
The Gears are the best at what they do, which is writing about pre-history based on archeology, creating a plausible fictional story to help us to understand the facts and thus preserve our own Native American history.
Kathleen and Michael have been my lamplight in becoming a Native American historical fiction writer.
They alone are responsible for peeking my interest in our dim past and have provided a window to that time and place of which they write.
If you desire to see the past of our unknown history of the Native tribes of North America, I advise you to make all of the Gear's books your first choice.
The Gears are the best at what they do, which is writing about pre-history based on archeology, creating a plausible fictional story to help us to understand the facts and thus preserve our own Native American history.
Kathleen and Michael have been my lamplight in becoming a Native American historical fiction writer.
They alone are responsible for peeking my interest in our dim past and have provided a window to that time and place of which they write.
If you desire to see the past of our unknown history of the Native tribes of North America, I advise you to make all of the Gear's books your first choice.
I really like the idea of this series, and found the first book pretty entertaining/thought-provoking.
This second installment, however, felt almost like a more complicated rehash of the first story.
There were too many characters that filled almost identical roles to characters in the first.
Even within the second book, there were too many characters who's roles were paralleled.
Events would happen in Blood Bear's story line that (to me) got tangled up with the storyline of Heavy Beaver.
all the same, it was a good story and I will eventually move on to book 3.
I have no idea why I find these stories so fascinating. Great characters. Great mythology. And wonderful descriptions of our own northwest as it underwent climate change and people hunting the buffalo to near extinction (perhaps the first time)7000 years ago. I was wrong about the main character appearing in People of the Earth...I think this book is set about 1000 years prior to People of the Earth. This includes the story of the discovery of how to harvest wheat and other grains which will save both the people and the buffalo from extinction.
I've read quite a few from this series and REALLY enjoy them! This one must be my least favorite. It's a little slow with not much happening (until the end), most of the characters (except for the old 'witch') seem so unstable (mentally and emotionally) it was frustrating, and a lot of the names are similar - so yes, at times confusing *maybe I wasn't paying enough attention*It's still a good read, and I'm happy I picked it up.
