https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9542439-the-lady-of-the-rivers
“Any woman who dares to make her own destiny will always put herself in danger.” This was my first Philippa Gregory novel, and my first historical novel this year.
Since it's an adult, historical novel in English it took me a while longer to read than your typical YA story, but I still loved it lots.I also love the portrayal of the main character and any other woman in this book.
Never again tell me historical accuracy needs women to be disrespected.)The never-ending power game, the back and forth between running and ruling are somewhat tiring but that isn't Philippa Gregory's fault.
I knew the various kings and queens, as well as how they ascended to the throne.
You are half in a bit of shock and a bit of concern, all knowing some of this actually happened.
but to know these people were real and these women gave birth to and raised Kings and Queens.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Leave a comment and let me know what you think.
Thanks for stopping by.
Many thanks to their original creators.
Plus, more of the book was about Margaret of Anjou than Jacquetta.
I have to admit, there were SOME strong points throughout but I have to judge the novel on the whole, and overall, the momentous events covered (Hundred Years War, Wars of the Roses) were barely even scraped in potential by Gregory.
The Lady of the Rivers is more of a summary of these events or YA novel.
Jacquetta surely did in this novel.
However, Gregory should have instead transversed this as a novel about Margaret of Anjou, then.
I’ve always had a love hate relationship with Philippa Gregory. Sometimes she does what she does extraordinarily well, and sometimes she writes crap like this. I really struggled with this one. I just found Jacquetta’s story  SO  uninteresting. When I was reading it I couldn’t help but wonder how better this series would have been if Margaret of Anjou had her own novel. This way another perspective of the wars would have been covered. Moreover, this isn’t even chronological with the previous two
When I was reading it I couldn’t help but wonder how better this series would have been if Margaret of Anjou had her own novel.
In the other books the characters view her as the villain; she is simply the “bad queen.” Only in this book does Philippa Gregory bother to show a glimpse of her story.
A weak story when Margaret went This book was also, undoubtedly, too long.
I didn’t like this book, but the rest of the series is really good.
The Cousin's War Series 1.
Die ersten paar Kapitel war ich daher auch noch etwas verwirrt und überfordert von den vielen Namen und Titeln, auch wenn zu Anfang des Buches Karten und Stammbäume abgebildet sind, war da schon eine große Flut an Informationen.Aber nach den anfänglichen Schwierigkeiten lief es dann, der Schreibstil war extrem angenehm und überraschend schnell zu lesen (hätte nie erwartet dass ich dieses doch recht dicke Buch in knapp 4 Tagen lese 😱).
Aber alles in allem hab ich jetzt wohl Philippa Gregory und die Rosenkriege für mich entdeckt und freue mich, dass dazu schon so viele Bücher erschienen sind 🏰👑🌹🥀
The wheel of fortune spins again when the king marries Margaret of Anjou and Jacquetta is summoned to serve the new Queen, but that marriage isn't exactly smooth sailing, and one thing leads to another until a little dispute erupts between the houses of Lancaster and York.That's about as much plot summary you'll get from me, I'd rather discuss the reading experience, starting with the repetitive text.
Any time Jacquetta mentions her first husband in a conversation he is always my Lord John, Duke of Bedford.
Where I got the book: review galley from NetGalley.Philippa Gregory takes a step back farther in time with The Lady of the Rivers; after exploring the lives of the various Tudor women in a succession of novels, she now dives into the rich and complicated history of the Wars of the Roses.
The protagonist in The Lady of the Rivers is Jacquetta of Luxembourg, who is not generally a well-known historical figure.
For one thing, Jacquetta gets to travel around quite a bit, and even though she's not in the battles I did get a better sense of being near to the action than I usually do.
Currently, the chronological order that these books should be read in is: (as shown on https://www.goodreads.com/series/5542...)The Lady of the RiversThe Red QueenThe White QueenThe Kingmaker's DaughterThe White PrincessThe Last Rose / The King's Curse (not yet released)NOTE - where The Last Rose fits on this list is currently unknown.BUT - The books are numbered (and show on Goodreads) in publication order.
The White Queen (Cousins War #1)The Red Queen (Cousins War #2)The Lady of the Rivers (Cousins War #3)The Kingmaker's Daughter (Cousins War #4)The White Princess (Cousins War #5)The King's Curse (Cousins War #6)So if you follow the publication order, like this foolish woman here did, you're all out of order!
I was really looking forward to reading this and was tragically disappointed.This was my first Philippa Gregory novel.
I think maybe that was a mistake.I feel like this is more of a supplementary novel, more entertaining for those who know what comes later.
I really felt like Jacquetta and Richard were on the wrong side the entire time.
They're fighting for terrible people, and I get that, but it's such a stated fact, there's no emotional investment so you kinda just question why?
I think the way the story is written in first person, present tense, made it completely emotionless.
I felt nothing throughout this entire novel.
It makes reading the text of the novel a repetitious bore.For example (one of many, many, many), Jacquetta speaking to Margaret of Anjou, whom she has served for years and years as a lady-in-waiting and therefore is very close friends with:"I think that Richard, Duke of York, is the only man to successfully hold French lands since my first husband, the Duke of Bedford."Of course Margaret would know that Richard is the Duke of York....he is her greatest enemy at court and they've hated each other for years.
If an editor had come along and slashed these repetitious titles/relationships/names, this novel would be far, far better reading.
The Lady of the Rivers was an okay kind of book.
However, this book was just an okay kind of beginning to it.Jacquetta of Luxembourg was a pretty interesting character to read about.
It did start to pick up a little bit better after the half way point..
Probably because I've read some books that were kind of a diary and they were so much better.
I didn't really like Jacquetta in the beginning of the book, but once the cousin war and more people were introduced I started to like her a little bit more.Overall, it was okay.
Margaret of Anjou shows promise when she first appears in the novel, but soon becomes the she-wolf, complete with budding psychotic son, familiar to anyone who's read a lot of Wars of the Roses fiction.Early on in the book, the widowed Jacquetta makes a scandalous marriage to her first husband’s squire, Richard Woodville.
The most dramatic events of Jacquetta’s life, her being accused and exonerated of witchcraft, the murders of her husband and her son John, and her flight into sanctuary with her daughter, belong to this period, as does the controversial role the Woodvilles allegedly played in the trial of Sir Thomas Cook, but Gregory chose to end her novel well before these things occurred.
Hands down, Philippa Gregory is my favorite English historical novelist.
She brings the era she is exploring to life and always tells the story from such a personal point of view that you feel you are, or at least know, the main character.
I also love that she takes historical women who have been literally overlooked by historians and brings their stories, their stuggles, into the light.The Lady of the Rivers is Jacquetta Woodville, lady-in-waiting to Margaret of Anjou, who becomes the Queen of England in 1445.
Jacquetta is a fascinating person, wise and true and regal.
These times are gold in Gregory’s hands.
Philippa Gregory is another of those historical fiction writers that I believe must have time traveled. Page by page, I was swept back into the world of Lancaster and York. Although The Red Queen and The Kingmaker's Daughter are both tied for first as the faves of this series, I loved the unexplored territory of the life of Jaquetta.
Two and a half starsThe Lady of the Rivers follows the story of Jacquetta, the mother of Elizabeth Woodville, (who becomes Queen of England), from a privileged child of the family Luxemburg in France, a family descended from the goddess Melusina; through her encounter with Joan of Arc; an early marriage to the Duke of Bedford, regent of France, uncle to King Henry of Lancaster, who exposes her to alchemy and secret books of forbidden knowledge, and subsequently, accusations of witchcraft.
In, closing, as Jacquetta abandons her friend Margaret for the house of York, so too, does Philippa Gregory abandon a much defamed Queen to the slanders of history.
3.5 starsFull review is here:https://amelianamora18.wixsite.com/am...Overall I did enjoy this book.
Really enjoying reading Philippa Gregory books,enjoyed Jacquetta and her relationship with the queen.fantastic read looking forward to reading her next book.
While this is the third book in the series I hesitated reading this because I wasn't sure if this particular woman in history would interest me.
I read The White Queen, the first book in the series which follows Elizabeth Woodville, and absolutely LOVED it!
The newest and fourth book in the series I actually read next called The Kingmaker's Daughter; this tells the life of Anne Neville, daughter of Richard Neville, Earl of Warwick and eventual wife of Richard III.
In meinen Instagram-Highlights unter „currently“ könnt ihr meine „Kurzmeinung“ dazu hören. https://www.instagram.com/wiljavanblog/
Devoting an entire book to Jacquetta was questionable to begin with; for all the royal goings-on that she was privy to, her life really wasn't all that exciting.
Unfortunately, PG does extremely little character development and for most of the book I couldn't ascertain if Jacquetta was just stupidly ignorant or so innocent that she couldn't quite grasp political implications.
I don't think this novel could ever have been a 5 star book considering the subject alone, but it definitely would have garnered a higher rating if PG had just explored her characters more and had fun writing it.
I also was out off by some inconsistencies within the novel (I am not even touching historical inaccuracies) such as Richard being referred to as a squire, a knight, and then a squire once more without any mention as to a knighting ceremony or why he would've been reduced to the status of a squire after achieving knighthood.Self-important and strident, Jacquetta is not the typical woman of her times (the novel begins in 1430) and the message that she, and strong, commanding women like her, are not welcome and face death for their knowledge.
It also helps that Jacquetta, though often annoying and slightly ridiculous is far easier to read than Margaret Beaufort's cold arrogance in The Red Queen.Gregory does a fine job with the atmosphere of the story, as she usually does.
I think I was probably harder on this book than I needed to be, but I really felt this book was choppily written for being a PG book.
In her last few books, I have found her going down the path of James Patterson~lower quality books because the market for her works is already set.
That is how I felt with this book.
Not only did I feel it was choppily written, but very superficial to boot.
I have seen this occurring in a very slow progression with her books and have always given her the benefit of the doubt, but this one just ticked me off because it was so obvious.
I get the feeling that Gregory does this because she thinks her readers won’t be able to keep straight who’s who, but I just feel like I’m being talked down to and not given nearly enough credit as a reader.Repetition may be the most annoying feature of The Lady of the Rivers, but in my opinion the most fundamental problem with the novel was that far too many historical events are related to us through secondhand narrative and occur "offstage".
I want to SEE what’s going on, or at least find out at the same time Jacquetta does.The Lady of the Rivers also suffers from rather simplistic use of language.

This remains my favorite of The Plantagenet and Tudor series. I LOVE the supernatural elements woven into this character. It's honestly the most historically accurrate aspect of this novel. Modern views on mysticism and witchcraft don't apply in this time. The people alive very much believed and ordered their major life events around what we now label superstitious nonsense. It was very real to them and I always appreciate when that aspect is included in narratives of this kind.
3.5 zvezdice
I just couldn't seem to get into this book, but I will reread it before the year is through so that it actually counts towards my reading goal.DNF.But, I think I'm just not in the mood for this specific writing style.
- This review was first published in the November 2011 edition of The Historical Novels Review -Philippa Gregory’s third entry in her Cousins’ Wars series features an unusual character: Jacquetta Woodville, mother of Elizabeth, who in turn gave birth to the princes who disappeared mysteriously in the Tower.
Margaret is a compelling character who steals the show— not yet the Lancastrian virago of legend, Gregory depicts her as a brash, beautiful girl tethered to a man better suited to prayer than bed play; Margaret’s vulnerability and fallible relationship with Jacquetta bring humanity to the crowded historical events.
I was interested in the topic, but it was a little dull.
I started looking up information about her and her family.
She has a lot of potential, but I don't think there was much information about her, hence more of the book was sort of ehh.
So not much action pack information, but boring herbs and a lot of waiting.
It wasn't a hard read.
Gives you a little back ground information about what is going on.
Therefore, I will read the White Queen whenever I get the chance.
4.5*
