https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66693.The_Crystal_Shard
Review of the audiobook narrated by Victor Bevine.Between 10 and 20 years ago, back when I only read a handful of books each year, I read through most of this series (up to book 17 of The Legend of Drizzt).
There is also an overall lack of depth and a cast of one dimensional characters, making this a book I wouldn't recommend to start with.
Certainly, you would want to start with Homeland, which I'm pretty sure is better without needing a re-read, then take a step back with the Icewind Dale trilogy, before moving forward with Salvatore.Victor Bevine does an OK job.
This book sucked.
The story is good, and I can see why the character is popular among 12-year-old boys.
So he's cool-looking, but good!
And he can do just about anything, including run for days and command demons and all that.The story, overall, isn't horrible.
It's better than the base narrative of The Hobbit.
Salvatore has been writing for 20 years, and maybe he's gotten better.
But I should have read this when I was 15, and then I would have disliked it less.I wonder how well those Dragonlance books would hold up if I read them now...
Ah, the very beginning of the Drizzt saga.
Such trope-ridden, archetypal innocence.When a disgruntled and incompetent mage apprentice comes into contact with one of the most twisted, manipulative and overall evil artifacts in the Forgotten Realms, things go south quickly for the population of Icewind Dale.
Enter Bruenor Battlehammer, Wulfgar the Barbarian and last, but certainly not least, Drizzt Do'Urden.Having recently run The Legacy of the Crystal Shard, set a century later, for the 5th Edition of Dungeons & Dragons, I must admit I liked that more than I enjoyed reading this, but it was quite interesting seeing where it all originated.As R.A. Salvatore's debut novel, The Crystal Shard reeks of inexperienced, derivative fantasy, but there is also a distinct aroma of epic adventure that keeps you reading page after page.Drizzt books are not masterpieces, but always enjoyable reads.
Καταπληκτικό βιβλίο το οποίο διαβάζεται μονομιάς, απνευστί, μπλα, μπλα, μπλα και άλλα τέτοια ανέμπνευστα τετριμμένα. Επειδή όμως ο χρόνος είναι σχετικός που είπε και ο.. Πάπας ο Κλήμης(??) εγω τελείωσα την ανάγνωση του σε ένα μήνα.Ο Άκαρ Κέσελ, κάτοχος του πανάρχαιου Κρυστάλλινου σκήπτρου και πανίσχυρος μάγος συγκεντρώνει πολυάριθμο στρατό ώστε να επιτεθεί στην δεκάπολη. Ο Ντριτζ Ντο Έρντεν με την παρέα του προσπαθεί να πείσει τους ηγέτες των δέκα πόλεων να συνεργαστούν ώστε αποκρούσουν τις τρομερές δυνάμεις που συγκεντρώνονται απειλητικά εναντίον τους. Όσοι πιστοί προσέλθετε, το βιβλίο τα σπάει.
How many books do you know that a side character has more time than the main character then becomes the main character? That was the way for this book, which mean the character of Drizzt rather than for Wulfgar. One of the many reasons that why this book is different from most books in fantasy. This reason is the biggest reason that this is different from most of the book out there.
Mr. Salvatore is undoubtedly more talented in writing than the format of these books might suggest (I'm sure he's writing for a fairly young audience), and the success of the series shows its popularity, but with only decent writing, only one really fleshed-out character, and plot that feels like watered-down and sugared-up Tolkien (and yes, the rip-offs are many), this book just isn't really something worth reading.
Drizzt, the drow (dark elf), is a classic romantic character, who is just too noble to ever show any weakness, and too good with his scimitars to ever be beaten by anything.
Try the Dark Elf trilogy.
MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListIt doesn't matter. I will always ♥ love ♥ Drizzt & his trusted companion, Guenhwyvar Drizzt Do'Urden trotted along silently, his soft, low-cut boots barely stirring the dust. He kept the cowl of his brown cloak pulled low over the flowing waves of his stark white hair and moved with such effortless grace that an onlooker might have thought him to be no more than an illusion, an optical trick of the brown sea of tundra. In the first part of the book we fi
In the first part of the book we find Drizzt helping out a few of the towns against a barbarian raid.
Wulfgar and Bruenor started feeling like family and when the time was up, Bruenor sent Wulfgar to learn fighting skills from Drizzt.
Of course Kessell is going to attack the villages (like will everyone just leave them alone) with his huge army.
I love Wulfgar too ♥This, that and the other happens and it ends all happy ever after with some funny stuff thrown in here and there.
Φανατικοί του fantasy, που παίζετε φανατικά RPG Warhammer και strategy Diablo, αυτή η σειρά είναι για εσάς!!!Μια καινούρια τριλογία ξεκινάει, όπου ο Ντριντζ έχει προσαρμοστεί στον υπέργειο κόσμο και, παρέα με την τρελή συντροφιά του, προσπαθεί να κατακτήσει το σύμπαν!!!Μάγοι, πύργοι, σχέδια στρατηγικής, θα το διαβάσετε μονορούφι (αν πωρωθείτε, διαφορετικά ίσως καθυστερήσετε λίγο γιατί θα προτιμήστε να σκοτώνετε στο Diablo) και μετά να πάτε να παίξετε Heroquest!!!
But I like it.A little different than the usual "quest" style of fantasy this one concentrates on a group of settlers trying to save their home from an invading wizard who has been possessed by an ancient artifact.If you've read Homeland, Exile, and Sojourn first you will notice a difference in style.
It's hard consider this book in a bubble because I've read all the Drizzt books that are out.
*Happy Dance* Artemis Entreri is coming *Happy Dance*(ahem, a favorite character, or can you tell)I recommend these books to fans of Dungeons and Dragons gameplay and books.
Fans of traditional fantasy.
I can see where this would have been an extremely popular book in its time.
LOTR was immensely influential and writers were trying to recreate the experience for eager readers, who were tired of re-reading Tolkien’s epic to get their fix.To give credit to Salvatore, he moves things off in his own direction quite quickly.
The ending leads me to believe that the second book will be the more familiar quest tale.Book number 229 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy Reading Project.
Aunque con un comienzo bastante lento, a los pocos capítulos alcanza la narrativa de las mejores obras del género fantástico. Personajes fascinantes, pertenecientes a diferentes “razas”, que se advierte quedarán en la memoria del lector por mucho tiempo. Una historia emocionante y emotiva, muy bien hilvanada, donde cada acción y personaje encuentra su momento adecuado. Muy bueno.
It's a strange experience, because I know the story of Drizzt so well from other books and other media, to the point that it feels like I must have read this previously...but I definitely hadn't.Back when TSR published this novel in 1988, it was trying to distance itself from a lot of the pre-existing gaming properties that it had published when Gary Gygax was running the company.
It's a shame, because (just like the Dragonlance books) I probably would have enjoyed this book a great deal more as a teenager.The story is pretty good, but it is clearly an outline of an AD&D campaign, with the halfling thief (Regis), dwarven fighter (Bruenor), human barbarian (Wulfgar), and dark elven ranger (Drizzt) as archetypal player characters.
The Ten-Towns can be seen as the last bastion of human civilization in the end of the world, beyond the mountains of the Spine of the World and far from the luxurious and vivid cities of the south.The Crystal Shard was the first time we get to know better Icewind Dale and its people, introducing a Dungeons & Dragons/Forgotten Realms adventure in a new way.
The way the author introduced the characters in the first half of the book might have been done differently.However, The Crystal Shard entertained me a lot in the last few days, which was quite differently from the first time I read it, several years ago.
I'm hanging out for more appearances from Jarlaxle tbh.Proper review to come later when I'm not tired AF.Also: I love this world a lot, but the series reaaaaally needs some more well-rounded female characters.
Catti-Brie has a few appearances, but the only other female characters are unnamed 'womenfolk' (who are treated like damsels in distress at best and 'seen but not heard' burdens at worst) and the mindless, tortured harem/slave girls the evil wizard keeps and routinely assaults in his tower.
Not the best nor the most diverse range of female characters, but I'm hoping it gets better as the series progresses!
Very much a solid 4 but upgraded for the impact it had on how I read, play and search out fantasy to this day.
I've never read past Sojourn amazingly.
I'm hoping to change that at some point.-I'm certain this was my first FR book as a teenager and solidified a lifelong pact with all things Realms.-Though I couldn't recall specific plot before my readthrough I could name every character.
First, last and nicknames...I'm horrible with names.-RA Salvatore's first novel.-Drizzt has spawned over 30 books in the series and sold over 10,000,000 copies worldwide.
-RA Salvatore was told one of his characters in his early draft was unusable.
After starting my adventure with Drizzt through the Dark elf Trilogy Iam back to the books that started it all. Icewind Dale. Although you can feel that this was Salvatores first book its still a great story and fun ride. It kinda feels like playing Baldurs Gate or Never Winter Nights:) All the side characters are cool in their own way but I think i like Bruenor the most:)These books are a great way to clear your head from the more "epic" stories out there.I will continue to read this series for sure. 4 stars from me:)
Based on the things I had heard about it (D&D origins and all) I was afraid that I had missed my window where I could enjoy it (somewhere in my late teen years I assumed).
Apparently I hadn't missed that window though, this actually turned out to be a fun read.
It maybe wasn't the best fantasy I've ever read but it was far from the worst, it had a good story line and interesting characters, it was written pretty well (better than I had expected) and was well paced.
Let's see, we have an evil artifact that possesses the mind of its owner, a dwarf and an elf who banter and keep score while they fight common enemies, and even a hobbit halfling who joins in the quest.
Still, while it isn't the most original plot (or even the 100th most original plot), "The Crystal Shard" still manages to be a must-read for any fantasy fan!One thing I enjoyed most about this book was R.A. Salvatore's incredibly beautiful descriptions of everything.
Still while the book did lack in some areas, the captivating characters and exciting action made this a grand adventure to read!
You may wish to avert your eyes from spoilers....The part that really sold me on the dreadfulness of the Crystal Shard was the start of a chapter that went something like, "Drizzt readied himself to attack the crystal fortress armed with his scimitars, magical panther and the flour he had stolen off the giants he had just slain and decided on a whim to take as a souvenir."Can you guess which item Drizzt uses to save the day?
But better than inexplicably stealing flour to use later.Thankfully the graphic novel does not include the awful flour scene, which gives it bonus points in my book.
2.5/5
Salvatore’s debut novel, The Crystal Shard was originally intended to be set in the Moonshae Isles, before Salvatore discovered that the Forgotten Realms were in fact much larger than he had assumed.
He is, by far, the top-selling Forgotten Realms author and has likely done more to establish the popularity of the setting than anyone besides Ed Greenwood.It’s easy to be sniffy about The Crystal Shard.
The isolated people of Ten Towns, the unforgiving nature of their fishing-based economies in the inhospitable cold - these create an air of desperation that wonderfully complements the story.Drizzt is, of course, Salvatore’s (and the Realms’) most iconic creation – yet in The Crystal Shard he is a side character, something of an enigma whose true depths are only hinted at.
This is probably the fourth or fifth time I've read this book since 1995. It's a good story and I'm sure I'll read it again in a few more years.
As Wulfgar grows up he also grows to love the dwarf father, as well as befriend Drizzt, who has become his tutor in battle.Brunor makes Wulfgar a magical hammer that he dubs 'Agis Fang', a super powerful weapon that can fell giants in one blow, and always returns to its master's hand when summond.
Eventually, the stupid apprentice summons a powerful demon from the abyss, named Ertu.During all of this, Drizzt and Wulfgar go on a sort of gradutation adventure together.
They kill them, and warn everybody.Eventually, the stupid apprentice brings his tower and whole army into the midst of the Ten Towns, Brunor brings dwarves to fight them.
Even with his brief introduction of Drizzt, Bruenor and Regis, Salvatore created tangible characters that colored the war tactics, battles, and subsequent survival (since "victory" is only in the eye of the beholder) with clear depth and breadth.
He was true to their character throughout the entire story and it allowed for the events that took place to be highly likely and credible in both a fantasy and/or reality of war and survival.
I particularly liked how each part contained a forward of Drizzt's thoughts.
He's clearly a very keen strategist and I enjoyed hearing his train of thought at he pondered current events.With the interplay of these three characters, my favorite introduction was Wulfgar.
The battles in this story were even better than I had come to expect, mostly because of the people who fought along Drizzt, and the unexpected alliances that were forged at the end.
The unwavering friendship that Drizzt is able to find in Icewind Dale is more gratifying for me, a reader who picked up the books in the order that the publisher numbered them, not in the order that Salvatore wrote them.
Having read through all of Drizzt's struggles prior to coming to Icewind Dale made his acceptance in Bruenor's clan and by some of the people in Ten-Towns much more sweet.
Book number four in the overall Drizzt series of books (though actually the first book published) and it was everything I'd hoped it would be.
Salvatore introduces readers to Icewind Dale and the Ten Towns that exist within its borders.
Politics and evil conquest are the main focus.
New beloved characters like the halfling Regis and the barbarian Wulfgar are introduced to great effect.
This is top-notch, pulpy high fantasy delivered at a snappy pace.
Wizards and Ice Dragons and Demons oh my!
It definitely feels like a D&D rpg come to life and the ending puts a smile on the reader's face.
This book is still as good as the first time I've read it more than 10 years ago. Having read more stories about Drizzt and going back it seems he is more chaotic in this one. His actions are more reckless and his skills seemed to be worse than he was in the Underdark. It seems strange that Drizzt managed to get knocked over unconscious by a barbarian king when his skills match that of Zaknafein. I also notice that Bruenor loves to mention about some ancient forgotten homeland dear to his race, be it Mithril Hall or Gauntlgrym.
A paint-by-numbers, cliched and sexist fantasy crammed with adverbs.
Well, 4.5 because I love this stuff.
This one didn't have the same impact on me as the first three books did, but there were plenty of interesting things happening: goblins, orcs, frost giants, dragons, demons, war and a smarmy, devious, whiny wizard who wreaks havoc after finding the crystal shard, an ancient magical talisman that gives him considerable powers.
Basic stuff, but well done.
I read and watch enough grisly things where I have to be pretty attached to a place before I'll worry about the welfare of the populace over that of a dragon or a demon.
Drizzt Do'Urden, Bruenor Battlehammer, Wulfgar the Barbarian, Regis the Halfling, and the lovely, Catti-brie.
I was 14 years old and this book most definitely played a large part in my love for fantasy & adventure to this very day.
I definitely view the series through rose-tinted glasses and to score them any less than 5 stars would keep me up late at night feeling guilt ridden.Have I mentioned Drizzt Do'Urden, Bruenor Battlehammer, Wulfgar the Barbarian, Regis the Halfling, and the lovely, Catti-brie?
For the past 28 years, I have traveled with them, adventured with them, and grown with them.Thanks, Bob. Keep on doing what you're doing!
