https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12476820-partials
Airborne viruses + survivalist action drama + human interest story is a great combination, and one I think most fans of post-apocalyptic thrillers will enjoy.
Kira runs a lot of tests on a captured Partial in this book, and while some readers may have an issue with all the medical business that goes on, I personally love books about viruses and analyses of scientific data, etc., so I very much enjoyed all that.
You can now check out the Partials trailer right HERE on Goodreads! A Partials-themed Acrostic! Pregnancy obligations for the young like in Bumped.Amateur military of Falling Skies.Rioters and mercenaries threaten way of life like in The Survivors.The MC is a bad-ass female scientist like in BonesInfertility woes of the women on the Lost island.Artificially created humans similar to Cylons from Battlestar Galactica.Lots of myths being busted.SCIENCE!!!  The Rundown  The world has been decimated
Pregnancy obligations for the young like in Bumped.Amateur military of Falling Skies.Rioters and mercenaries threaten way of life like in The Survivors.The MC is a bad-ass female scientist like in BonesInfertility woes of the women on the Lost island.Artificially created humans similar to Cylons from Battlestar Galactica.Lots of myths being busted.SCIENCE!!!
Our main character, Kira, has this brilliant idea that the scientists should focus on discovering how the immunity really works and figure out why the remaining adults and the Partials are immune.And now for an intermission of Lyndsey Thoughts:Me: Wait a tic - Kira thinks of this?!
The tone of this book felt more like a science-based procedural crime show set in a post-apocalyptic world populated by cyborgs and a few remaining humans.
It seems to me that the first mistake made with this book was to target teenage girls. Here I come with my gender stereotyping and I'm sure there will be other female readers who'll love this book and disagree with me... but despite the protagonist being female and the cover featuring a teen girl, Dan Wells appears to have written a "boy book". The lengthy descriptions and idle conversations were dull enough without the subject matter going from hockey to guns to bombs.In the words of Mr Presle
The remaining few have congregated on an island, but all the babies born to the women die within a few days due to the release of a virus by the Partials.
Now the thing I find quite unbelievable is that we're expected to just accept that expert researchers have been studying the babies for years in search of a cure, and yet it takes a sixteen year old girl to come up the idea that they should also be looking at why adults have immunity to the virus.
duh.The biggest attempt to turn this into a book that could easily be marketed to teenage girls was the rather boring romance story.
and when you do choose to do it in dialogue, it just sounds clunky.character one: remember five years ago when this thing happened??character two: i do, but then that other thing happened so it made it somehow worse, but we were able to do blank which prevented us from blankety-blanking.character one: right, but we forgot about that other thing.character two: yeah, that was rough.i mean - that is just an example of how awkward this kind of thing can be - it is obviously not as bad in the book, but it rankles nonetheless to have characters sitting around discussing events they lived through as though giving a memorized oral report on historical events.it just works better to have characters thinking these things to themselves.
Oh, for fuck's sake, just make it stop.
God, this book bored me to tears.
I fucking quit.
No love lost.Dan Wells, you write pretty well.
In fact, your writing is enjoyable.
I opened the ebook file one last time, just to take one more stab at it, and I swear there were tears in my eyes.
When a book makes me cry with sheer frustration, then that's it.
I'm done.Could somebody tell me what they liked about this book?
Don't make me.I can't even bring myself to rate this book.
And just glancing at it brings real tears to my eyes.
I'm gonna struggle a bit here and say some good things.
The writing is clear.
The characters are easily visualized.
The plot twist is serviceable.
It's not a bad book.
There's plenty of tension and action and *big* *fear*.But?Yeah, well, um...
I'm read it before.
A lot.
Powdered milk with a bit of mineral fortification.
It kinda misses the whole point of having a bunch of thriving gut flora and leaves a child's mind weakened to truly invasive memetically-modified horrorshows that will change your life.Again, it's pretty standard stuff.
But it won't change anyone's life.
Intense with highly sophisticated world building- Partials is a fantastic addition to the dystopian genre.
With 99% of the population gone, killed by a new epidemic, Kira is determined to find a cure to save humanity.I have to start with Kira because she is an excellent protagonist.
Some of them are more developed than others, but they all have great personalities that really fill up the pages.One thing that stands out from this book that actually surprised me, is the lack of a romantic plot.
A few annoyances (like the oft-mentioned kudzu. WE GET IT.) but I found this really enjoyable! It's sci-fi, dystopian, post apocalyptic and I think you'd like this if you liked  This Mortal Coil or if you like stories about rebellions, clones, or medical threats.I think the main character was said to be Indian-American.tw: baby death, electrocution, human experimentation
Oh, wait while I find my mouth under my bed where it dropped. ..So, are you ready for this wonderful journey into the future?Here we go…It all came down to a war - the worst of them all.It was not between humans, but between them and the Partials.Because what if robots didn’t look like robots anymore?What if they looked exactly like humans? What if they were genetically programmed and made into the best weapon alive, a dangerously thinking one? Breathing flesh-and-blood robots meant to kill - st
It’s not only that the premise was absolutely wonderful; it’s the fact that the whole book is so amazing.I am not going to tell you too much about the story, because you need to read it by yourself, I am just going to keep telling you about all the things I liked about it.Yes, I must confess that it was a bit slow for my taste in the first half, but by the ending I needed to remind myself to breath – because the action was breathtaking, with so many turnarounds, so many new informations about the this world, and the insecurity was killing me (not knowing who’s bad, who’s god, who’s gonna betray next).There were so many questions I had not only about the Partials but also about the humans.
The little things really killed this book for me.
If you're going to throw me into an entirely fictional world of your vision, you have to paint a compelling pictures, keep your world building consistent, and make your characters fit into that world for me to buy it.Every few pages I ran into some little thing that just pulled me out of the story.
You die!******Seriously, this bugged me the ENTIRE time I was reading this book.
I found that the little things made it impossible for me to ever get settled in Kira's world.Final verdict: Save yourself some heartache and skip this book.
Before you read my review…I originally rated this book 4 out of 5 stars but after I wrote my review, I lowered it to 2.5 out of 5 stars (rounded up to 3 stars). My reasons… I rated the book immediately after reading it and I was clearly caught up in the last 25% of the book. When I wrote my review, I realized that the majority of my review was negative and I had plenty of issues with the story. Thus, I changed my rating. The Bad I didn’t feel a real connection with the characters. The real story
I didn’t feel a real connection with the characters.
The real story seemed centered on dying babies, half robot soldiers, isolated humans being controlled by a secretive government, and a protesting secretive group that doesn’t like the government’s control.
While, in the end, I found myself liking Kira, I didn’t feel a real connection to her.
If one of the minor characters suddenly took over the story, I wouldn’t have minded.The world building.
He also created a war, a fractured government, half humans, explanations for the survivors, and stories for the dead.
Thank you, NetGallery! I should have read this book sooner. No stupid love triangles, strong girl as the main character - no crying, thinking over and over about the boy and why did he do that or this, believable scientific background of the story and so on...So, if you like sci-fi, end-of-the-world-as-we-know-it type of the stories, grab your copy of this book and read it as soon as possible.
Okay fine, that is an exaggeration but I can't help but get weary of the same plots with a few subtle differences (you know, differences like the cause of the ultimate breakdown of modern society).
And this may be because I analyze novels on a daily basis and I can't let a passage pass me by without analyzing the hell out of it but...I felt that the synopsis or rather the excerpt that we read on the back cover of the novel, you know, the final words of the last president?
It goes pretty in depth with the research and specifics of the virus and I just think that's so cool :) I did like the main character Kira, although she was annoying at points because she had to save EVERYONE, even if it was a lost cause.
This book isn't as much character driven as plot driven, so I don't see myself getting real attached to the characters, which is kind of a downside.I just loved the plot developments and twists, there were points where I was just like "oh my gosh", it was awesome.
I have no idea who the real enemy is.If you like science, science fiction, or apocalyptic stories, I would highly recommend this book!
This book isn't holding my attention. At all. Too much boring detail, too many boring characters, the writing style is too bland. This is simply not my thing.
So I really am not kidding when I say it’s been a long time since I’ve felt this excited about a book of this type.
Specifically, it tackled the virus bit that most post apocs have beyond the superficial level; there was lot of detail (that likely went over my head); yet I did appreciate the lengths to which most things were explained.
I mean it’s obvious that the Senate was up to no good, but like I said some of them could be passionate and fiery about their stand and sometimes effectively convincing.
3.5 StarsBR with the lovely Horsegirl! (:
If you’re a fan of Firefly/Serenity or Buffy the Vampire Slayer’s (the show, not the movie) whip-sharp banter, you’re going to love this book.
And, on that note:3)Thou art a great crossover book for boys.
It’s annoying to predict how the book is going to end within the first three chapters and then, three hundred pages later, find out you were completely right.
And there you have it—a book that I’m going to go out on a limb and include in my top five of 2012, even though we’re not even a quarter of the way through yet.
7 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Hannah Georgas – Enemies (Mathbonus Remix) Royksopp ft. Robyn – The Girl And The Robot Lunatica – Who You Are Genre: post-apocalypses dystopia, YAStuff: bio-humans, deadly virusFail: slow pacing at the startWOW: actionPOV: 3rd person, femaleLove-Geometry: lightQuote-Core:
It means no drama and a lot of action.Sometimes while reading a book you are interested in a plot but have no feelings for characters.
But partials are already waiting for them…This is where I finally started to feel something toward this book.
If it so then it would be more logical to create only men who don't need food (our partials do), feel no pain (so they could stand longer against their enemies), and have no hunger for knowledge (I mean this education thing).
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[I didn’t like that Kira may be a partial (or is it just an imperceptible intervention in her DNA?).
Descubre que la única forma de hacer una cura es capturar un parcial y estudiarlo, pero su Gobierno (SENADO) no la deja, así que lo hace ilegalmente para salvar al bebe de una de sus mejores amigas.En esta primera parte tenemos un montón de datos imnunologicos, biológicos y químicos sobre el virus, que en lo personal me fascinaron La lealtad de Kira es su mayor virtud, sin ser una sufrida ni una guerrera, Kira es una gran protagonista.EN LA SEGUNDA PARTE, trata mas a fondo sobre el gobierno que se formo después de la Guerra Parcial, y los rebeldes que hay afuera.
So don't let that deter you from reading this because once this story does get going, it does not stop!I'm not someone who likes to dive into a review and dissect a story character by character or plot point by plot point because I usually find that by the end of one of those reviews I have pretty much gotten an almost-spoiler free version of the story, met all the characters and learned their personalities as well.
Would I want my friends to read this and would I like to talk about it when it's done, kind of reviewer.So, with all that said, this book made me feel like I wish it did not have to end.
I love, LOVE this book and wish I had an inside connection with Dan Wells so I wouldn't have to wait for Failsafe, the second book in the Partials series.Kira is sixteen and a medic trainee in the hospital maternity ward.
Wells also brings heart-break with plenty of tears with one of the character (no spoilers) I will just say, I really loved this guy.Dan Wells’ dedication in Partials is the best way to describe my own feelings for this amazing novel: “This book is dedicated to the rule breakers, the troublemakers, and the revolutionaries.
¿Vieron cuando un libro te atrapa?Bueno esto es lo que sucede con este libro.Sin lugar a dudas es una historia FASCINANTE.
Una vez que empezas a leer no podes frenar.
Reí, llore, ame y odie.
Este libro agarró mi corazón y lo partió en dos, después lo piso, lo reventó, lo molio a palos, los destrozó en mil pedacitos y asi y todo lo ame.
La historia es desgarradora, completa, bella, con un millón de giros que te mantienen al filo.La protagonista tiene carácter y hace lo que cree mejor para mejorar el mundo y deja todo por sus ideales.
I think I must not have read the synopsis clearly when I bought it because I thought it was a book where aliens had taken over the world and there were only one community of humans left.
In a way I think that helped me to like it so much, because I was surprised whilst reading it.
It's like an apocalyptic world (not the zombie kind, but everything has gone to crap and 99.9% of the human race have died), where everything isn't quite as it seems from the get go and there are some surprising moments.
"Partials" had many elements that I absolutely loved - for the genre, for the audience, for the issues it raises and the questions that it poses for the characters within the world Dan Wells creates.
But time is running out as more stipulations are set for the Hope Act, and tensions are running high with groups (like the Voice) who want to see the act repealed.For the record, I love sci-fi that actually goes into the measure of exploring the "science" aspect of the world created.
Where other writers tend to stumble when switching genres from their previous fare, Terry Goodkind comes to mind, Dan Wells has given us a spectacularly well written story in a very well crafted world, with great characters.Eleven years ago the Partials, genetically engineered super soldiers created by the US government rebelled.
She believes that the only way to cure RM is to capture a Partial, and study it to find how their bodies repel the virus.(view spoiler)[Her superiors refuse to allow such a dangerous mission, so with her friends Kira decides to do it on her own.
Me encantó que la protagonista fuese de una etnia diferente y que no fuese la típica doncella en peligro.
El mundo de Partials es muy creíble.
Ya quiero leer el resto!!!Esta relectura de uno de mis libros favoritos confirma la magistral narrativa de Dan Wells, junto con mi teoría de que para lograr una novela de acción trepidante que te atrape y no te suelte no se necesita un mar de sangre ni desagradables escenas de sexo no consentido.
Nada es lo que parece ser en Partials, los adolescentes deben estar en condiciones de ejercer una carrera a una edad en que los chicos suelen empezar a plantearse su vocación.
Along the way she meets friends and foes and even figures out the mystery of where she came from.I was dying for this book and I was lucky enough to receive an ARC (THANK YOU HarperCollins!
I felt like I was right there as one of the characters walking in East Meadow making do with what I had after 99.996% of the human population had been decimated.Yes the book starts of slow, but what after reading more and more, your mind is set into Kira’s world where things aren’t what they seem to be.
¡Qué buen libro!Excelente y con excelente me quedo corta.Uno de los mundos post-apocalípticos más interesantes con los que he tenido el gusto de encontrarme, y una de las mejores distopías que he leído hasta el momento.Muy bien escrito, muy bien pensado. No sé cómo voy a resistir la espera para el segundo.
How cool is this book!Fighting, saving the wold, kick-ass protagonist and mates that completely have your back, grenades, going on dangerous and not- so- sophisticated adventures, loyal and brave.
Urmm, so is nobody going to even act like they care right now?
You see, this partial looks more human than she would like, he has a name, a voice, and shows feelings.
It did tend to get a bit too much at times) I mean, do you guys think she loves him?
Perhaps not my kind of guy since he often acted like a tool and a robot, but I know his heart was in the right place.
