https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2612.The_Tipping_Point
This book is fascinating and I was disappointed to read that many other readers didn't think so.
I think those readers are approaching this book the wrong the way when they critisize Gladwell for his inability to prove his points thoroughly.
Hopefully the reader who isn't convinced entirely can go into further detail by reading Gladwell's sources which are exhaustively referenced in the back of the book.
This book grew out of an article Malcolm Gladwell was writing for the New Yorker.
The crux of the book is that the "stickiness factor" of epidemics (whatever the nature) begins with a tipping point.
The Conclusion, the eighth and final chapter, was pointless: if the reader did not understand Gladwell's point by now, he or she must have been as lost as Washington Redskins' new coach Jim Zorn when he commented his family was proud to wear maroon and black.All that said, the book was not horrible.
It was a well written first person narrative and the lessons of the emergence of epidemics are applicable to almost any career or lifestyle, as Gladwell demonstrated with his countless examples.
Let me save you a few bucks here: Malcolm Gladwell is either a self-aggrandizing ass who is too busy thinking he is the god of marketing to notice that a great majority of his arguments lack any kind of cohesion or credibility whatsoever, or he is just so excited about his self-proclaimed 'paradigmatic' keys to the essense of social epidemics that he conveniently forgets to include that much needed credible evidence to support his long-winded theories, resulting in a book fit to satiate the appetite of audiences hungry for pop pseudo-science BS that will make them feel smart for reading it.
Gladwell made a ton of money off what probably only took him, like, 15 minutes to write, and THAT is the only thing genius about this book."Yeah, I was kinda mad when I wrote that.
It read like a bestseller (quick read), but had a lot of substance to stop and make you think.three Rules of the tipping point: the law of the few, the stickyness factor, the power of context.Law of the Few (people who influence): - Connectors: super connectors (eg Paul Revere).
Good at reading people entering into "conversational harmony" with them.
- make the message personal to make it memorable The Power of Context - Broken window theory.
- law of 150: a person can't 'know' more than 150 people, so companies usually start to fail at that point.
In writing about a weird epidemic among newborns in the 1950s, Gladwell says of the lead scientist, "Goudsmit thinks that this was an early HIV epidemic."Nothing wrong with that.
If I ever handed in a badly reasoned piece of shit like this book, they'd tear me a new asshole.
But they would tear the manuscript a new asshole, as they should.) More to the point, I have enough respect for myself, my readers, and my fact checkers that I'd never hand in something like this in the first place.
I think missed the best by date for this book.
It's more fun than an introductory course in sociology and covers some of the same material.
Reminded me of Bellwether by Connie Willis and William Gibson's Blue Ant series.
All looking for the point where people change behavior and a new trend begins.I loved the part about creating the children's education tv programs Sesame Street and Blue's Clues.
What worked with preschoolers, and what didn't.It seems likely Gladwell relies on his enthusiasm for his theory more than fact.
That being said, I'll probably read more of his books.
It’s 3.5 stars.Nevertheless, if you’ve fogged a mirror in the last 10 years, much of what Gladwell worked hard to synthesize in year 2000 is merely a matter of course in the mercurial, social, connected life we lead today.
The Law of the Few says the answer is that one of these exceptional people found out about the trend, and through social connections and energy and enthusiasm and personality spread the word about Hush Puppies.
I know more people today having never met face to face than actual people I knew in 1999.Mavens have the knowledge and the social skills to start word-of-mouth epidemics.
(As you may have guessed, we will be returning to this later)What I’m saying is that Gladwell is a sexy kind of guy anyway, even before he did the best of all possible things in the afterword of this book.
(Yes, I know, ‘don’t try being cool, McCandless, it really doesn’t suit’.)Essentially, he talks about a small number of personality types that exist in the world that kick trends along, and these types of people help make ‘the virus of the latest thing’ spread to us all.
The term "tipping point" has become so commonly used in news stories that I wonder how many people know it came from a book.I read this back in 2000 when I was in grad school for sociology.
So a maven might have more of an impact on spreading an idea.It would be interesting to reread this book now to see how it holds up, because many of these ideas seem to have become part of the cultural zeitgeist.
Gladwell postulates three mechanisms of cultural epidemiology, the axioms of the law of the few, the stickiness factor and the power of context.
The law of the few declares that change is often initiated by a small group of people (three different types) with an ever-widening pyramid of influence.
The second axiom in Gladwell’s informal theory is stickiness: the impact of the vector on the host, i.e., an idea or product must be memorable in order to spread; otherwise, it will not be embraced by the people in the connector's network.
There's a whole lotta coulds, may haves, apparentlies, perhapses up in here!Malcolm Gladwell's basic premise in The Tipping Point: To explain how word-of-mouth is spread.A couple of the examples he used were how crime was reduced in NYC under Giuliani's reign and how an old, dead-in-the-water brand of shoes seemingly suddenly were selling like hotcakes.
For you see, this is the sort of thing feasted upon by ladder-climbing, power-lunchers, who want to put Gladwell's theories into practice for the purposes of creating their own wildfire word-of-mouth epidemic in the exalted name of the great and almighty greenback.
After all, this stupid little book managed to put its theories into practice and the damn thing blew up like nobody's business.
تجربة قراءة كتاب اللغة الإنجليزية هي تجربة رائعة جداً,تفتقد شعورك تجاه لغتك الأم تجاه لغة الضاد..ولكن لا يعني ذلك أنك تؤثرها على الإنجليزية,عندما يفتح لك باب القراءة بلغة أخرى إنما هي نعمة أنعم الله بها عليك فلا فضل لك ولا قوة فـ لله الحمد والشكر أولاً وأخيراً.
الكتاب نقطة التحول عندما بدأت في قراءة لم أكن أستطيع تصنيف الكتاب بأي قسم أضعه وتحت أي مجموعة أصنفة فما كان مني إلا أن أنتهيت من الكتاب وقلت في نفسي هذا كتاب قد يكون تسويقي وقد يكون جزء من علم النفس.
These are the movers and shakers - the people who make things happen.He uses a wide range of phenomena to illustrate the idea of social epidemics - the rise to popularity of Hush Puppy shoes, a sudden decline of crime in New York, the success of the children's programmes Sesame Street and Blue Clues, the cleaning up of the New York subway, the spread of new corn seed in Iowa in the 1930s, an increase of suicides in the South Pacific islands of Micronesia, plus the reasons why smoking has drastically increased amongst teenagers in the US, despite strenuous efforts to discourage it.
He very loosely weaves together existing social science and economic research to support his thin idea that there is a "tipping point" in all epidemics.
While it was a page turner and interesting to read, his glib conclusory statements interpreting others' research was a bit jarring...
For example, use of the word "always" when describing a social phenomenon is not a practice to which most trained social scientists would subscribe.
I was also hoping for more practical advice resulting from his work, but not much was to be found other than that many complex forces (people, context, etc.) are at work in achieving a tipping point in most epidemics.
موضوع: نقطه اوج، چه طور مسائل جزئی موجب تغییرات بزرگ می شوندخلاصه ای از محتویات: به طور کلی مالکوم گلدول، ژورنالیست مشهور نیویورکر در این کتاب علت وقوع اتفاقات اپیدمیک رو بررسی می کنه.
2. Connectors: یکی از عوامل اپیدمیک شدن یک موضوع وجود افرادی با هویت رابط هست.
یکی دیگه از مطالبی که یاد گرفتم این بود که این دسته افرادی که با هویت رابط می شناسیم و دایره دوستان زیادی دارن آدم هایی هستن که ناخودآگاه معتقند که همه آدم هایی که قراره ببینن به یک نحوی فوق العاده و شگفت انگیزن و این طرز فکر باعث می شه زیبایی های آدم ها رو در حالی که از دید بقیه پنهان هست ببینن...
هذه القوانين مرنة جداً, تستطيع استخدامها كي تحلل سبب انتشار الثورات العربية, كما تستطيع أن تستعملها لتفسير نجاح تقنيات معينة مثل الآي باد وفشل تقنيات أخرى مثل قوقل ويف, تستطيع استخدامها لفهم أسباب انخفاض أو ارتفاع معدلات الجريمة, تحليل نجاح الكتب والروايات الأكثر مبيعاً, شيوع موضة معينة, بل إنك تستطيع أن تستخدمها لفهم سبب الإقبال غير العادي للشعب السعودي على شراب ( الفيمتو ) في رمضان.قبل أن نستعرض هذه القوانين الثلاثة, لنبدء بسؤال يطرح نفسه حول عنوان الكتاب: ( ما هي نقطة التحول؟ ) أي تغيير يحدث في المجتمع يحدث عادة بشكل تدريجي وعلى فترة طويلة من الزمن.
Social Scientists had a term for this late 20th century phenomenon: "Whoa!" Meanwhile, in Canada (if that's your real name), a young, mild-mannered boy named Malcolm recognized the unique power of combining individual letters into meaning-units called “words.” He quit his job making ice sculptures out of rusted fenders and moved south of the border to America (the nation, not the ice-cream stand).
The strategy worked: He signed a contract with the biggest publishing house in America, which then promptly issued his first minor masterpiece: "Writing: How Letters, Sentences, Paragraphs, and Chapters Add Up To The Thing That Came Before the Colon." From that point on, it was all gin and roses (until Slash and Hypen left the band).
هو ثالث كتاب أقرأه لغلادويل بعد آوتلايرز الذي أثار إعجابي جدا ، وبلنك الذي كان شبه محبط بالمقارنة . سعيد بأن أقول إن غلادويل قدم في ذا تيبينغ بوينت مادة بقوة كتاب آوتلايرز من ناحية قراءة وتحليل الواقع وقولبته في قوالب إستنتاجات تفيد أصحاب الأفكار سواءا تجارية أو هادفة أو مجتمعية أو غيرها في إحداث التغيير في المجتمع بأخذ العوامل التي يطرحها بعين الإعتبار.
Inductive reasoning but still believable for the most part. Extreme fun to read.
Some examples used early on are carried through the entire book, i.e., Hush Puppies (shoe) fad, AIDS, etc.The Tipping Point explains the phenomenon of why some products, businesses, authors, etc become hugely successful (tip) while others never seem to break apart from the masses as anything special.
Paul Revere was a connector.Why does one restaurant or book become hugely successful while another just as good (or better) remain fairly unknown?
They had a Maven, Connector and Salesmen in their corner that spread the news of their product or business like a virus.
A lot of good information packed into this book for business as well as sociology.
1 Start - Horrible book.Yes, yes, even though I started this yesterday I did actually finish it.
I'll never be able to get back those precious reading hours.There are two things that make this book, in my opinion, unreadable.
I just wasn't impressed with the author's fervor and excitement in trying to explain a logical thing.
I felt as if he was talking down to the reader.The second thing that made me despise this book was that the author leaves a lot of half-thoughts.
He rarely finishes an idea all the way to the end and the book is full of cases that are unfinished.
This is Gladwell's most thorough book.
Although admittedly, the research is not quite as fun as it is in his two following books.
If I had Gladwell's attention, I would ask him this: How do you capitalize on your role as either a Connector, Maven, or Salesmen?
Can you aspire to a different role than the one you are naturally gifted with?
Can a Maven be a trend setter or a Connector?
One of my favorite quotes from this book: "That's why social change is so volatile and so often inexplicable, because it is the nature of all of us to be volatile and inexplicable."
I first read about this concept several years ago in a New Yorker article that discussed the theory of epidemics as it relates to crime, particularly the power of context.
A book (Fixing Broken Windows Restoring Order and Reducing Crime in Our Communities by George Kelling) proposed that police should spend more time dealing with the little things, e.g., arresting people for public drunkenness, going after the street hookers small-time dope dealers, rather than putting resources into the high-profile, big crimes.
I bought this book for half price at Borders.
I should have thought to myself: "Hey, there's probably a reason this book is on the half price table." But I didn't.
I bought the book.
You have a full hour to fashion a coherent thesis out of the trivia you've learned over the past five months.
You're not really convinced of the correctness or importance of your thesis; you just want that A grade.
When I went to college, the technique was called BSing.
Malcolm Gladwell is very good at it.
I would probably give that book three stars.
Sorry, Malcolm.
I've heard Malcolm Gladwell speak a few times at Harvard and had been interested to read The Tipping Point for a while.
The principle focus of The Tipping Point is how small changes, can bring about large effects.
A definate must read for anyone interested in looking at what moves people and how a small event can result in large response.I felt the argument of this book proceeded very logically and was adequately developed and supported by the factual examples.
But for my part, I think Gladwell is a perspicacious observer whose insights here are original, interesting, and even useful.
I can see now that the   Freakonomics  boys took quite a few pages out of this book. The Tipping Point launched the trend of examining social experiments with results that are, to use Mr. Gladwell's phrase, "wildly counterintuitive". I breezed right through this one--the most popular books always seem to be quick reads--because I was so caught up in Gladwell's straightforward style of writing and fascinating subject matter. (I particularly enjoyed the Sesame Street/Blue's Clues experiments.) The
Someone named DeeDee Gordon, whom Gladwell tells us is an expert in spotting "trendsetters", delivers the following monologue:"I've run into trendsetters who look completely Joe Regular Guy. I can see Joe Regular Guy at a club listening to some totally hard-core band playing, and I say to myself, omigod, what's that guy doing here, and that totally intrigues me, and I have to walk up to him and say, hey, you're really into this band.
First at the club:DeeDee Gordon: Hey, Joe Regular Guy...JRG: Pardon me?DeeDee Gordon: You're really into this band.
What do you mean?DeeDee Gordon: You really intrigue me, Joe Regular Guy.JRG: My name is Ted. DeeDee Gordon: I want to know what Joe Regular Guy is doing listening to a band.
انتشار صيحة معينة، مرض معين، عادة معينة..أو حتى انتشار الجرائم، العنف، التطرف،نجاح برنامج، انتشار كت
I was one of those a-holes that referenced this book to my friends in casual conversation, over and over and over again right after reading it. I'M REALLY BRIGHT, I JUST READ MALCOLM GLADWELL, LET ME TELL YOU ABOUT HUSH PUPPIES AND SESAME STREET. That said, it was one of my favorites in college and I still enjoy Gladwell's stuff, unashamedly.
اما خیلی هم نمیشه موافقت کرد :) کل کتاب یک سری کِیس اِستادی هست که بررسی میکنه و از توش با یک سری روش های به ظاهر منطقی حرف خودش رو تایید میکنه.
یا اینکه میگه قضیه اینه دیگه قبول کنید :)ینی خیلی نمیشه به عنوان روش های علمی بهش نگاه کرد.
البته همچین چیزهایی، یعنی بررسی رفتار مُسری، خیلی بررسی نشدن و احتمالا خیلی هم پیچیده است توصیفش.پدیدار های بیشمار پروفایل دارن و بررسی پدیدارها روش خاص خودش رو داره.
اما این روش نتیجه گیری به وسیله روایت (حتی واقعی) رو خیلی مطلوب نمیدونم.
In this book, Malcolm tries to explain, with the wit, clarity and beauty you'd expect from him, the way something small and insignificant turns into a huge wave.
Here I just want to note the beauty of mass data gathering.
Without mass data, the late parts of the book, in my opinion, could not have existed.
Now, this is the first lesson of the Tipping Point: Starting epidemics requires concentrating your efforts in a few key areas.
The second lesson of the tipping point is that whether we like it or not, our intuitions are often wrong.
