https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92292.The_Wicked_Pavilion
As usual in a Powell novel, as in her own life, there's constant anxiety about money.Cafe Julien on E 9th St near Washington Sq, in Greenwich Village, provides the social hub.
Powell lived across the street, but the Cafe was hit by the wrecking ball in 1954, when the novel ends, and so does an era.
Powell asks, "There must be some place, a halfway house in time where the runners may pause and ask why they run, what is the prize and is it the prize they really want?"
So she's really more of an answer to the question, "I love Dorothy Parker but I read everything she wrote in like a day, where is more?"1954's Wicked Pavilion centers around that afore-mentioned Cafe Julien, a fictionalized version of the legendary Cafe Brevoort, or the Cafe Lafayette, or both.
How could I have forgotten to have rated this book? I loved this book so much, but it's fallen into a weird category. I have other books of hers but I don't know when I will ever read them, I feel like they need to be saved so that I can enjoy them at some point in the future. Richard Powers is like this for me too, and in a way Raymond Chandler, but I think with him I have given into the need to read most of them by now, and I've only gotten one or two left.
This was more a series of related stories than a developed novel, but it was still fine.
Containing some of the best satire I have ever read, it portrays a group of high society and art world characters as they go about their avaricious, self-centered lives.
Some sections are forgettable, but others contain passages of truly inspired wickedness.
A high class party girl gets hauled off to a drunk tank with a bunch of prostitutes.
A cranky artist inadvertantly fakes his death and then his work and life become much more significant than before.
The edges on Dawn Powell's novel are sharp enough to cut.
All the characters are morally bankrupt sell-outs and hypocrites, or else they're lunch for the carnivores.
All the same, I didn't detest anyone enough to stop reading.
Somehow, Powell makes you feel, just a little, for even her shallowest, most venal characters.
While her cynicism can be exhausting, I enjoyed her writing very much and look forward to reading more from this underrated author."Satire is people as they are; romanticism, people as they would like to be; realism, people as they seem with their insides left out."
This actually started off a little slow for me, though I think it's more me than the book: I'd just come off a giant Gaddis novel and more episodic scenes of artists bumming around New York didn't grab me straight out.
I actually read this in a library of america edition which also has three other of her books, and now I feel quite pleased to have purchased this edition instead of the wicked pavilion lonely all by itself.
I'll be coming back for more, I think, once the summer reading projects are over.
This was an author I was unfamiliar with before discovering this book and I was impressed. It has the same kind of swagger you might find in, say, Hemingway's autobiographical "A Moveable Feast" but in NY in the late 40s. Artists and writers float between a world of money and creative destitution, scamming their ways when at all possible.It details debauchery and the dark side of humanity while being absolutely snarky and witty.
Very good mid-century American fiction -- though, oddly, the cover copy on the edition I have kinda spoils something. (To the extent that they can be spoiled -- this could fairly be called a comedy of manners, so we're not in THE USUAL SUSPECTS territory here.)
I don't know why, it's not as if humour was invented in the nineties or something but the idea we have of the prim and proper Olden Days doesn't seem to fit with comedy which makes it all the more pleasurable to find.Lots of cleverly interweaving plots here with trips to a terrifying mental hospital, high society drawing rooms and the dens of poverty-stricken artists.
The fact that Powell is not more well-known is a crime and yet another indictment of our sexist society which doesn't properly value the artistic contributions of women.

Dawn Powell gets to the heart of the intersecting lives of artists like nobody else. She understands the awfulness and the beauty. This book is unflinching and biting but also beautiful. I feel like I went to the cafe that is the center of the book and but also long for something like it because I didn't go to that cafe. Where is today's Cafe Julian? I've thought of this book a lot since I finished it a few weeks ago. I keep revisiting it in my mind the way these characters revisit the cafe that is no longer.
The Wicked Pavillion starts out a bit slow and even a bit dull, but builds into something terrific, albeit uneven until the end. Powell's social observation is brilliant and her understanding of human nature acute, but the novel suffers greatly from an overabundance of characters and overcomplicated plot.
A sensorial experience of 1940's NYC. Vivid and fascinating - a peek at life that no longer exists. Where was the "real" Cafe Julien? I'd like to just stand where it stood and let Dawn Powell's characters float through my imagination again!
Anything by Dawn Powell impresses, though thought this one had a bit too much caricature, and too less pitch-perfect satire. But very revealing in the chronicling of the transformation of Greenwich Village at mid-century.
Excellent New York story teller of early 20th Century telling an excellent New York story. What's not to like?
Satire And DisillusionDawn Powell (1897-1965) grew up in rural Ohio, but spent most of her adult life in New York City.
It was written in 1954 and is set in New York City in the late 1940's.The "Wicked Pavilion" in the novel is the Cafe Julien, on Washington Square in Grenwich Village.
Much of the story centers upon the apparent death of Marius and the instant celebrity and inflation of his reputation that follows in its wake; b) Rick and Elleanora, on-again off-again lovers who meet and carry on their relationship over the years in the Cafe Julien; c)Elsie and Jerry.
En eso recae la magia de la pluma de Dawn Powell.Este es un libro para leerse con calma (aunque admito que no dejarse absorber por la narración me resultó una labor casi imposible), disfrutando de todos y cada uno de los detalles que nos son descritos para finalmente darnos cuenta que la historia termina de la misma manera que inicia sin que esto la vuelva un fiasco total, sino una muestra de que existen excelentes escritores que desgraciadamente son conocidos por muy pocos.
Powell is a virtuoso with tone and gentle shifts in language: she has Proust's knack for hilarious dinner parties, George Eliot's knack for succinctly describing the complicated and insightful dynamics between her characters, and for me is one of the most amusing users of free indirect speech I've yet read.
The Wicked Pavilion makes so many points so beautifully, not just about art but about high society, about love, about the notion of place informing one's character, and more.
Thank you Francine Prose for the recommendation at LA Book Fest!
Dawn Powell is best when she is gently mocking the pretensions of the mid-century New York City she inhabited.
Here she takes aim particularly at those who seek to use others for their own social promotion (not exactly a phenomenon limited by time or place, unfortunately).
We see those who did, or who sought to, marry above their own social rank, only to get burned.
There can be no mistaking how Powell feels about such people; no one will accidentally read this novel as a celebration of such behavior.
So much so that it's almost guilt-inducing to find the novel so entertaining at times.
Dawn Powell provides a distinctive example of mid-20th century American literature.
Rachel Syme was spot on in The New Yorker that Powell "...wrote with the kind of highly attuned, neurotic, slashing wit that others in the business love—she struck out at her craft, her contemporaries, and her own ambitions, and she aimed for the heart...
Powell was a master of urban observation."The Café Julien and its denizens are very "New York." I loved the line from an artsy party: "There are some people here who have been dead twenty years." I came to Powell through the endorsement of Gore Vidal.
Dawn Powell earned Four Stars from me.
The author can be quite cutting in her satire, but these are kind cuts; you can tell she's lived the period, loved the period, and has a lot of affection for the people - artists and writers, mostly - that her characters are modeled on.The passage of time makes appreciating a novel like this harder; the sort of people she's sending up I really only know of from other media.
I suspect that's why I smiled my way through this novel, but never laughed; if I'd been of the period, I'm sure I'd find it much funnier.
Still, I enjoyed reading this, and if you've got an interest in the culture and the time period, I suspect you will too.
Deeply under appreciated mid-twentieth century author. Delicious, clear-eyed portraits of the precarious lives of people on the artistic fringe of New York society.
I read this book after being hugely impressed by A Time to Be Born and, while The Wicked Pavilion is still a very good book, I couldn't help being slightly disappointed.It seems that The Wicked Pavilion was Dawn Powell's only New York Times bestseller and, well, there is a lot of good i this book.
I also like to spend time with characters, and in a 280-page book with three different stories, there's not enough space for that to happen.Don't get me wrong: I get that all these stories say something about the café Julien and about Greenwich Village, I get that they're complementary and grant a sort of poise to the novel.
Ma che bello!Sembra, sulle prime, una raccolta di racconti.
Poi capisci che ogni pezzetto è una tessera del mosaico che rappresenta l'umanità variegata che ruota attorno al Cafè Julien.
Se vedi solo le persone non ti rendi conto che il centro del loro gravitare è comune.Così le vite di questi newyorkesi di ogni estrazione finiscono per amalgamarsi in continui rimandi intorno ad un posto che, in fondo, diventa colpevole di conoscerli veramente, una sorta di specchio segreto in cui tutti non possono evitare di riflettervisi, nelle loro meschinità.
Este libro llegó a mi por causalidad, sin estarlo buscando.
No tenía muchas expectativas sobre él, al comenzar a leerlo creí que no era el tipo de libro que suelo leer.
Decidí terminarlo porque no me gusta dejar libros inconclusos, y para mi sorpresa me atrapó.
No es un libro que te vaya a dejar un gran conocimiento, pero sí te hace pasar agradables momentos con personajes peculiares, describiendo la vida de estos personajes, vidas entrelazadas y encontradas en el Café Julien.
En lo personal quedé fascinada con la sencillez de la lectura, es una lectura ligera, a pesar de eso tiene un léxico amplio.
I love Dawn Powell so much I should be arrested. This book does what all her books do really well: Dart in and out among a large cast of witty, precisely-observed, and very likeable fuckups, while carefully documenting a specific time and place: New York in the forties. As in, back when Greenwich Village really *was* full of starving artists, and Staten Island was the pastoral end of the universe. Awesome, awesome, awesome.
A recommendation: don't read the other Powell, Anthony, while reading this. The first couple of chapters of this were comedic and highly entertaining, building suspense for what was to follow. What followed was largely predictable realism taken almost to the magical end. No longer entertaining. Powell doesn't bother to meaningfully develop the characters, either, so when the plot starts to whither to a dull conclusion...
I discovered this book because of a literary pub crawl I run in Greenwich Village, and I fell in love with her. This book is a funny, touching, scathing and sentimental look at the many different characters that resided in Greenwich Village and New York City just after the war. I was shocked she had gone out of print, I think she should be taught in schools. I've read the Golden Spur and will be working on A Time To Be Born.
Dawn Powell has become one of my favorite authors. I'm not sure any of her books are being published anymore and that is a shame. I read this book in a Library of America edition. "The Wicked Pavillion" is a skewering of the art world and its pretentiousness. Set in New York City, specifically Greenwich Village in the late 40's Powell creates believable characters that can be both laughed at and pitied. If you've never read anything by this author this book would be a good first read.
This novel contains some brilliant flashes of Powell's trademark wit and narrative complexity. I found the central storyline that ties all the other strands together to be a bit weak and unconvincing, however. I still think that, like Edith Wharton's work, anything by Powell is worth reading and provides a rewarding experience.
