https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1441588.Death_Watch
3.5 rounded up.
A clever mystery but I thought the clues could easily have been manipulated in such a way as to make any of the suspects the culprit and did not definitively point to one person which is perhaps why our detective had to force a confession at the end.
I even wondered if the author had not quite decided which was to be the guilty party until late in the writing of the book.
Still I would love to read more John Dickson Carr.
Popsugar Challenge 2017 advanced: a book recommended by an author you love.
A method of investigation based on evidence at the limit of nebulosity and caricature characters make this full-bodied classic yellow English one of the most boring I've ever read.Not to mention that the back cover is misleading.I thank Open Road Integrated Media and Netgalley for giving me a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.Un assassinio pretestuoso e arzigogolato, messo in opera con uno strumento fuori dal comune, da un personaggio dalla psicologia improbabile.
The mystery still centers on those within an extended household, but it isn’t quite the “closed door” mystery for which Carr is famous.Still, Death Watch has a rather unique murder weapon, a plethora of suspects, a convergence of coincidences, and an intriguing jockeying for the solution between Detective Inspector Hadley and Carr’s favorite sleuth, the Renaissance Man known as Dr. Gideon Fell.
Melson serves as the narrator after he encounters the mystery while working on a deadline for one of the inevitable “publish or perish” projects necessary to academia.
7) Death Watch is particularly intriguing because some of the characters are quite polished at misdirection.
The policeman had come there based on a tip he'd received concerning a suspect who had not only been on a shoplifting spree, but who had also murdered someone during one of the crimes.
The policeman was stabbed in the neck with the hand of a clock, and Dr. Fell is on hand just after the crime occurs.
I've actually become quite used to Carr's style by now (this is #5 in a row by him I've read this month), and though it may be a bit off-putting to modern mystery readers, it's still quite well done.
I've been reading the Gideon Fell series as character research for my role in a production of "Whodunnit." Up until now, I've found the series rather dry and implausible. "Death-Watch" was billed, on its cover, as one of Fell's greatest cases. It does not disappoint. It has all the intricacies of the usual Fell mystery, emphasizing the puzzle of the murder plot over character development. The puzzle is a truly engaging one, though, in which Carr manages to baffle while playing completely fair with the readers. He also creates a truly dastardly villain.
Not the best in the series so far, but not the worse...
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Originally published in 1935, DEATH-WATCH is the fifth book in the Dr Gideon Fell series by "golden-age" writer John Dickson Carr.After marrying an Englishwoman, Dickson moved to London, the setting for many of his novels.
Referred to as one of the "Golden Age" writers of mysteries, most of the books relied on complex plots, although Dickson was a particular proponent of the "locked room" style of puzzle.
In DEATH-WATCH this tendency seemed to be even more pronounced than normal even allowing for the time that the novel was originally written.If you are a fan of Golden-Age mystery writing, then you might already have come across the Dr Gideon Fell novels.
Merit was a subsequent translator and editorial consultant of the publishing house Mondadori, Igor Longo, whom I knew at the time and that was one of my friends, who returned brilliance to the text which manages to understand the steps difficult parts of the novel, and at the same time could to make the reader a participant in that hypnotic atmosphere of the novel by which it seems to be pregnant.
Memorable scene on the roofs, by the light of the moon, which recalls the atmosphere typical by Connington, that so Carr liked (for example that by "Tragedy at Raventhorpe")
Here is a mystery that is like one of those picture puzzles people like to put together on storm evenings with their family and friends, but this one is one of those 1,000 piece puzzles, full of what may seem confusing and misleading pieces.
To the rescue comes Dr Gideon Fell, that over sized genius with an uncanny ability to see how these weird pieces just might fit together.This is not one of John Dickson Carr's famous locked room mysteries, but it is close, since most of the action and all of the suspects live in one London house.
Again, Carr proves to be the master of the knotty, many piece mystery.
I enjoyed this mystery, but it didn't really capture my attention as well as it could have. Also, it was obvious to me that the book was written with the ending in mind, and then everything else had to fit. That made it really hard to solve the mystery, because the author concealed everything important until the end. I like Gideon Fell mysteries because he's so outrageous, but for that reason, I like them best in small doses.
Devilishly complicated and thoroughly entertaining, this Dr. Gideon Fell mystery leaves the reader guessing until the end. In a character-driven plot revealing the foibles and secrets of every person, they all seem guilty (though we hope many will remain innocent). Living in a boarding house in London, this motley group of adults leads a dysfunctional, familial sort of existence. With unrequited love, secretly fulfilled love, and roommates like this, anybody might become a murderer.
Classic John Dickson Carr! ...what more is there to say?...okay, *fine*...Even though not among the top rack of his novels, this is one of the signature crime novels of his, that keeps me guessing until the very end, with everyone a suspect and the solution being as startling as always.
Carr's books seem frozen in time...he evokes an atmosphere of mystery and suspense with seeming ease. Yes, his crimes are complicated, so unless you want to make out graphs and flow charts, forget solving the crime. Just go along for the ride and enjoy the mystery and the antics of Dr. Gideon Fell.
When Dr. Fell arrives on the scene, there is a body in the hallway and a man standing over him with a gun. The woman screaming her head off is also something off a distraction. Then it turns out the corpse's throat was cut. And the murder weapon is still on hand. The hand off a clock.
This book was a really cool read. It kept my attention because Benwas going to be murdered by madec and he managed to out smart him and take him to be properly prosectued. I really enjoyed this read again, because it kept my attention.
Book #5 in the Gideon Fell series. This one concerns murder in the home of a clockmaker.
Great book! Really enjoyed the interaction between Dr. Fell and Inspector Hadley.
Storia bella, ma troppo lento lo svolgersi dei fatti.
An excellent plot. The continuous friction between Hadley and Dr. Fell is most enjoyable.
Not one of Carr's best,found this difficult to get in to.No impossible crime/locked room this time,just a complex,convoluted murder with lots of suspects.
This is an excellent British mystery in the vein of Agatha Christie.
Gideon fell....surprises galore....complications and trickery....
Incredibly boring. Didn't finish it.
