https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113320.Rise_to_Globalism
This felt like a book of two halves. What began as a detailed and seemingly thoroughly researched study of American foreign affairs sadly began by the Nixon years to seem merely generalised and opinionated.But without doubt it was the worst example of proof-reading that I've ever encountered: errant commas, dollar signs transposed by random numerals, non-sensical sentences (in one case the word 'create' is replaced by 'cremate') not to mention unnecessarily sloppy colloquialisms. Arguably the insouciant editing and inelegant prose gives the text a degree of accessibility however this was certainly not the 'classic' I had been led to expect.
For example, introducing the chapter on the September 11th attacks, he wrote about how little Americans cared about the flag prior to 9/11: "Strange now to remember how we used to take the America flag [yes, that's not my typo, my edition of the book has it as the "america flag"...] for granted during the Cold war.
That, plus the fact that the author sometimes made opinionated judgments about certain presidents and policies, made me take off another star.But this was a pretty great summary of American foreign policy in the twentieth century.
This is a book that tracks foreign policy from 1938 (I read the title because I'm super smart, yo) through the election of Barack Obama.Many Americans can feel that history is often this unrelated mass that is difficult to attach to today's policies.
America's physical security, the sine qua non of foreign policy, seemed assured, not because of American alliances or military strength but because of the distance between America and any potential enemy.The book is written in a reasonably casual tone, so readers will not get lost in the pedantry.
This book achieves three purposes:1) Show the reader how the US emerged as the world superpower, tracing the route from 1938 to the present;2) Subjectively grade each president and his administration on their foreign policy objectives and whether or not they were achieved;3) Help the reader understand the US's place in the world and potentially understand where the country (and the world) is headed.This book is oriented to those who have trouble understanding how and why the US became the preeminent superpower in the world and for those who might be afraid of overly academic writing.
I recommend it for anyone interested in US foreign policy and also anyone preparing for the same exam (there was one question specifically that I would have gotten wrong if not for this book!).
I remember stopping, thumbing through the books, thinking that "there's never any good books left out for free".
My friends were walking off ahead of me, and I was just about to stop picking through the books.
I read the title, "Rise to Globalism: American Foreign Policy Since 1938", and thought, "now this sounds interesting, I might as well take it, it's free anyways".
It turned out to become one of my favourite history books, and one of the few books that I have read more than once.
This book is a decent survey of US foreign policy post-WWII. If you know absolutely nothing about the subject, this wouldn't be a bad primer.
Exhausting but now I know everything about foreign policy.
Outstanding!
So many typos. I’ve never seen anything like it. Really hard to trust the accuracy and analysis when the editors didn’t even catch errors in spelling and grammar. Assuming that the typos came from people outside of the factual, analytical part of the process, it’s decent. At most points it felt like the subject material was far more interesting than presented here. I think a historian with better writing style could’ve made this such a page-turner; as it is, it reads like a fairly dry textbook.
Regardless, this is the only foreign policy book I’ve ever read and felt “enlightened”, there was a lot of information but it was presented in a way that would make a squirrel go “ah!”Books like these that show all the inner workings of historical events are, unfortunately, put aside by most people.
I can’t help but agree wholeheartedly though, he backed it up well enough.Most of all, I just love that this book is in the History section and makes abundant use of adjectives.
The quality of the writing and analysis decline sharply in the last half or even third of the text, and the rampant grammatical and spelling errors detracted further from the overall work. The authors seemed to have clear favorites in terms of presidents, and some of their analysis was downright baffling (like shoe-horning blame for 9/11 into the Clinton chapters).Overall, a relatively strong start squandered in later chapters. Very disappointing.
An interesting read, but having read about twenty other books specifically in this genre it leaves a little to be desired. I found it to be an excellent way to catch up on holes in my education (i.e. learning more abou the Carter administration) but if you want a great all around book on the rise of globalism and American foreign policy there are better books out there.
This crucial result of World War II destroyed the Grand Alliance and gave birth to the Cold War." (93) If one reads further, a more critical note becomes audible.Ambrose makes clear that it is certainly understandable that Americans would have been outraged at Soviet actions in Eastern Europe, since "they shut the West out completely.
Ambrose credits Harry Truman with the institutionalization of the Cold War, a process whereby the strategy of containment was instituted on a global scale.
They wrote the book's best chapters when they were younger, but when it came time for the edition update that included 9/11 they just couldn’t bring themselves to fully blame the Bush administration for ignoring Bin Laden’s threats after being in power for 9 months before the attacks.
At best, it is an attempt at equivalency and "fairness," but any honest person would not equate the actions in the wake of the Atlanta Bombings with the blatant ignorance of "Bin Laden determined to attack US," under Bush.
The authors jovially point out the "hypocrisy" of anti-war protesters, whom the authors think would be happier CIA invasion to depose a Noriega instead of boots on the ground in Panama.
A good overview of American Foreign Policy, 1938-2007.
It is well written, and the authors have plenty of criticism for pretty much all of the Presidents in that period.
If anything, America's foreign policy is a history of grand mistakes by inexperienced Presidents, with occasional serendipitous successes that seem to occur almost by accident.
One other conclusion I have made is that just about all of the Presidents and their Secretaries of States, and the underlying aides have lied or intentionally misled the media and the public at one point or another, and all consistently overstate or at times completely imagine the successes they trumpet in public.
At the ripe old age of 21 years old at the time of this review, there is much about this book that is severely outdated.
I believe there is only one more edition after this one, and it, too, is now eight years old and therefore also quite outdated.All of that said, and especially as far as coverage of older epochs go, this book is phenomenal.
I delighted in the play-by-plays of foreign policy triumphs and embarrassments, and the incisive analysis that accompanied them.I would absolutely love to read an edition of this work updated for 2018.
This book should be required reading in the age of Trump, if only for the quotes: "Armaments only bring disasters.
Consequently, only a madman can believe that armaments are the principal means in the life of society." -Nikita Kruschev, after the Cuban missile crisis."In politics and strategy, as in economics, monopoly naturally appears to him who enjoys it as the best possible system."-Charles DeGaulle, explaining France's withdrawal from NATO in 1963But wait, there's more!Background on all the tomfoolery that we call American foreign policy during the 20th Century!
Very hard to rate. The amount of typos and grammar errors are laughably mind-boggling. United Sates, random semicolons, and starting a new paragraph between United and States (!!!). The amount of errors are so bad I should ask for some of my money back from Penguin Publishing. Also, the trend toward the end of the book is unsupported opinion, not facts. I'm guessing earlier Ambrose editions of the book were excellent and Brinkley is just a moron. That said, 2/3 of the content is excellent. Best book on foreign policy I've read, it just goes to pieces after Reagan.
I felt this was quite a surface book, that didn't get into a lot of the deeper details behind foreign policy decisions (and in fact glossed over some huge black marks of US history). It basically just recaps major foreign events that were probably covered in your high school history class, without going into any detail or root cause. Also, this book is riddled with typos and editing errors. One of the few books I've read where the editing was bad enough to be distracting.
It’s a good survey of foreign policy in the US. The perspective is strictly from the executive branch, but gives a continuity in narrative that allow the reader to understand the decisions that changed the world. I would read this as a supplement to historical scholarship that already exists on Cold War historiography or American history to
I really appreciated the analysis of the early cold war period. Rise to Globalism does an excellent job of staying neutral and summarizing. The analysis of more recent history is not as effective, but still worth the read.
I found this book to be very easy to read. It is written in a way that makes history easy to understand and not at all boring!
Was informative but THERE WERE TOO MANY QUOTES.
Solid overview of WWII through Bush Jr. There’s a tone change around Reagan, maybe a bit more emotion, but not a huge deal. Got me caught up.
The prose is rather dry sometimes, but it is still eye-opening that I think should be a must read for all Americans
Great overview of U.S foreign policy and an enjoyable read for students.
Depressing. TR's grandson joined the CIA and incited riots in Iran to put the Shaw into power.
They then partially credit the rise in rates to the "previously unimaginable level of American deficits, as Reagan simultaneously cut taxes while increasing defense spending." I'm certainly not an economic historian, but everything I've read tells me that the late 1970s were decidedly not a "boom" for the West, and that the inflation figures previously cited were far more related to President Carter's Federal Reserve Chair appointee Paul Volcker (he raised Federal Funds rate to 20% by 1981).
--His coverage of Iran/Contra: reading Ambrose' narrative, it's almost impossible to tell that Congress concluded Reagan didn't know all the particulars of this foreign policy event.
Excellent overview of US foreign policy since WWII. Fast-moving and interesting.
Taking that into account, I decided to give "Rise to Globalism" a three star average rating for the reasons below:The book starts out strong with a very factually-based presentation of the thoughts, motivations, and actions of US policy makers starting with the presidency of FDR and the outbreak of WWII.
Given that most of the book was readable, I won't hold the authors wholly accountable, but it is an annoyance to be sure.With all of that said, I still feel as though I came away from reading "Rise to Globalism" a more informed individual and one ready to find more specified reading on the subjects covered.
