https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311182.These_Old_Shades
I thought that Ms. Heyer did a fantastic job in showing Avon's transition from being a cold man with a heart of stone to a loving person.
And you see it in how he interacts with Leonie, who gives him her steadfast, unconditional love from the very beginning.Avon is bent on revenge, but he exemplifies the saying, "Revenge is a dish best served cold." He waited over twenty years to obtain his revenge on his enemy.
And it has an appeal outside of those readers who enjoy romance.This book was a joy to read, and it has made me an eager fan of Heyer.
Various shenanigans ensue, as Léonie resists fitting herself into the mold society expects, and the Comte Saint-Vire, the Duke's old enemy, takes some drastic and potentially lethal steps to try to avoid the noose he can see headed his way.I've been tempted to knock this book down a star or two for a couple of things in the plot that really irk me: The twenty year age difference between the Duke and Léonie (he calls her "infant," for heaven's sake), which everyone in his family handwaves because they think the two fit so well together.
"If you desire to do good to la petite, send her to me""My dear father, I have never desired to do good to anyone" When I first started this book this was my reaction to my fellow reading buddies "Doesn't the writing feel... off? It's not as flowing as my other experience with Heyer". And way too many French words/phrases?That made me curious so I checked the publishing date, turns out this book was published in 1926 - almost 40 years before my favorite book of hers, Frederica. So it was one of
It was funny with two likeable leads but it was also over-the-top and frankly unbelievable at (a lot of) times.I liked both of our leads: Justin, Duke of Avon was a somewhat reformed scoundrel with a nickname of Satana (Satan).
Oh sure, she blindly worshipped the Duke but I guess that's understandable seeing as he might have literally saved her life.
As in the life of Leonie.They did shared quite a few scenes where their chemistry was extremely on point but then I'd remembered the two decades age difference and I was a bit pulled out of the story.
to love oneself is certainly the beginning of a lifelong romance.our heroine Leonie should have driven me up the wall with her juvenile antics and especially her insanely, insipidly worshipful attitude towards Lord Alastair.
she is a surprisingly rich and original creation.the title should have annoyed me because it has nothing to do with the actual story, but is rather a sly jest made by the author in acknowledgement that this book is sort of a remake.
it is weirdly resonant, despite being basically a quip.I neglected to read the back cover of the novel before starting it, so I may be one of the few Heyer fans who didn't realize that "Leon" was actually a girl disguised as a boy.
I think Heyer writes vivid, opinionated characters and she captures the Georgian period beautifully.
Heyer doesn’t directly tell you what her characters are up to either, so you have to get to know them by what they say.
Of course, some of my more skeptical impressions of the Duke, may be due to the fact that Leonie was so naïve and worshiping, I thought she was a child.
I thought this book was a lot of fun.
I will forever think of the Duke as a young, smooth talking Peter O’Toole and Leonie as Milla Jovovich from The Fifth Element.
I am not even afraid to review it here on this pretentious book site, I love it so much.
It is lovely beat up and bent back to the pages of all my favorite parts.
The Heyer hallmarks are all here: great characters, hilarious plot, breaking the genre rules, a somewhat effete hero (but in a manly way).
There's real darkness and fear and complexity in the characters.
Easily the first book hero I ever fell in love with.
I love Georgette Heyer.
This was one of the books that really helped along my love for 18th/19th century Brit lit.
As everyone who has read this novel is aware, deciphering who is whom at the beginning of the story is slightly confusing, since Heyer uses many ways to name the Duke in just a few pages (I actually thought there was about 4 different guys in that scene when Avon is talking with Davenant, just after he brought Léon to the house).
I was definitely intrigued, as we see that Avon has a motive for his actions which he refuses to share.By reading a lot of reviews here on Goodreads about this book, I found that the two major problems that most people encountered with These Old Shades was that the two protagonists were annoying (particularly Léonie) and that the love story was very ick-creepy-pedophile-and-just-plain-disgusting.
GAH! I adore Georgian period romances. The ridiculous extravagance and theatricality of action and costume are simply divine.  "I thought you disliked melodrama, my friend?""I do; but I have a veritable passion for--justice.""You've nourished thoughts of vengeance--for twenty years?" Other pluses which definitely made this a win: Heroine disguised as a boy, swordplay as well as hoydenish behaviors overlaid with a sweet naïveté; and an older sworn bachelor and renown rake charmed back into life's
GAH!
I adore Georgian period romances.
The ridiculous extravagance and theatricality of action and costume are simply divine.
"I thought you disliked melodrama, my friend?""I do; but I have a veritable passion for--justice.""You've nourished thoughts of vengeance--for twenty years?"
Other pluses which definitely made this a win: Heroine disguised as a boy, swordplay as well as hoydenish behaviors overlaid with a sweet naïveté; and an older sworn bachelor and renown rake charmed back into life's pleasure from the malaise of ennui.
You are dead!
You are dead!""You display an unseemly joy," he remarked.
If you like historical romances, brats, and an age difference then you really can't go wrong, here.
Having a hero who was 40yrs and a heroine who was 19, combined with the hero constantly calling her infant and for 80% of the story portraying her as very young, innocent, and wide-eyed, I couldn't and didn't want to buy into their romance.
If you liked Val from Hoyt's Maiden Lane series, you're going to love our hero Justin, definitely an inspiration for him.
I was a big fan of Justin and his wit, he's constantly miles and moves ahead of everyone else.
Leonie was kept so young, guileless, and precocious without much emotional maturity growth, I have to be that person and say I wasn't a big fan of the heroine.
The Duke is returning to his palatial Paris hôtel from a night of gaming or perhaps other amusements when an urchin stumbles across his path and begs for help: "Great violet-blue eyes gazed wildly up at him, terror in their depths." This is a Georgette Heyer romance so we all know where this is going, but getting there is splendid fun.
I've read most of Georgette Heyer's Regency romances, but I'm new to those set in 18th century France and England.
Read with fellow Georgette Heyer Fans who added so much to the pleasure--thank you all!
Most fandom people I've talked to either love or at least rather like this book, but it seems it's my turn to feel all "bwah?" and left out, as Punk does with  The Dreyfus Affair and Siria does with  Swordspoint.
The idea of him and Leonie being together really skeeved me out, not because of the age difference—I actually like an age difference, when it's done well—but because of the power dynamic, I guess.
All the power was Avon's, both practically and emotionally, and throughout the whole book Leonie was worshipful of him and he condescending towards her.
But their & Belmanoir's back story is used to very good effect.The extract from a poem by Victorian poet Austin Dobson (which has been at the front of every edition I have read of this novel except the Arrow) This Age I grant (and grant with pride),Is varied, rich, eventful;But, if you touch its weaker side,Deplorably resentful:Belaud it, and it takes your praiseWith air of calm conviction;Condemn it, and at once you raiseA storm of contradiction.Whereas with these old Shades of mine,Their ways and dress delight me;And should I trip by word or line,They cannot well indict me.
The denouement of his meticulously planned revenge was so perfect that it made the comeuppance of the evil shrew of Les Liasons Dangereuses seem like child's play.I have to admit though that the cast of secondary characters, a madcap assortment of aristos with always a bon mot, a box of snuff, and an invitation to a ball up their sleeves, and the infantile, annoying heroine, who I am sure delighted the original readership of this book, kind of grated on me.
Still, overall, an entertaining little book.
I found the Duke of Avon to be a rather fashionable reptile with a fan (yes, you read that right).
Do not get me wrong, I enjoy these fashionable anti-heroes (see Eloisa James' the Duke of Villiers), but Heyer's Avon felt rather cardboard.
There wasn't much to him really, apart his vapid need for revenge and calling Leonie "my infant", which made me very, very uncomfortable.
As to the romance between Avon and Leonie, all I can say is that, boy, am I skeeved.
It's not that Avon is twenty-plus years older than Leonie (and a reptile), but rather that she has the maturity of a kid, despite her being nineteen.
You would never know (or feel) that this book is made of 300 pages or so - it reads very quickly, enchantingly so. Very enjoyable as always.
The detailing of emotions, actions, feelings and situations is just out of the world!First, It is Monseigneur and Léon, the page!Oh such a cute mix of loyalty, devotion, love, servitude, fury in Léon and of an apparently detached interest, care, admonition and command in Satanas.
Growth in love, in devotion, in care and in affections and fondness of Léonie and Avon for each other.
Some of the best scenes I have ever read are in this book, especially the one where Avon leaves Léonie in Lady Fanny’s care.
While I am not a tremendous Heyer fan, I do enjoy knocking them back like m&ms.
It concerns Justin, the Duke of Avon, and Leone who -- whoopsie -- turns out to be Leonie.
The other characters in the book were quite a bit of fun as well: Justin's sister Fanny was a riot, and Rupert his brother the comic relief.
Although with that it bugged me a bit as I am no fan of Heyer's slang.
I enjoyed all the twists and turns, even though a bit of the book dragged for me somewhere in the middle.
The character of Leonie is immensely likeable (though, like Amanda in Sprig Muslin, she'd make more sense as a 15-year-old than at her stated age, which is 19).
Partly it's a Georgian-culture problem -- it's hard for me to distinguish between an ordinary, irresponsible nobleman of fashion and an actual rake in the old, non-playful sense of the word.
(Except, I suppose, intentionally provoking a rival to suicide, but this is set up in such a way that you cheer it.)Gender assumptions (Leonie is universally admired for the frankness that comes of having been raised as a boy) and class ones (she's still recognizably a Lady, and the switched baby a peasant, despite their upbringings) are hard to ignore, and as always with gender-switch stories, I feel like the homoeroticism is raised and then hastily shoved offstage again.
I always love villains, right?
I did love Leonie.
I was surprised to discover that I understood all the French dialogue.
I took four years of Français a million years ago in middle school and had a French pen-pal.
In fourth year, Madam Fitz had us watch Gigi and French commercials.
I promptly changed my flag from Francophile to Anglophile upon discovering Jane Austen a few years later and still want to be a Brit.
True story mon amies...er..mates.A solid 3 star read.
I guess I need to love the hero in order to give all the stars.
I first read this 50 years ago.
These Old Shades is my favorite Heyer book and some of the details had stayed with me for 50 years which is a pretty strong recommendation for a book.
Stayed with me so much so that this is the first re-reading I have given it.
I find These Old Shades to be the best written, most intriguing plot, strongest characters and most delightful secondary characters.
Plus it seems from other books written in that period as if big age differences were commonplace.I am so glad I finally reread these Old Shades.
Once again, Georgette Heyer has delighted me with this enchanting tale!!!
It's a tale of revenge, it's a rags to riches story, yet, it's also a romance.
Ultimately, Justin is reunited with his better self as his desire for revenge changes into an impulse to restore Leonie to her rightful place in society.This is one of Heyer's slower burning romances but one of the most satisfying I have read thus far.
I highly recommend this witty romance!!!
I'm finding the protagonists quite distasteful -- actually morally reprehensible, rather than merely "not to my taste" -- and their relationship creepy and unhealthy. From what I gather from other people who've read this, they don't have some catharsis or rupturing and become better people. And it isn't even witty in the usual Heyer manner. I'm dropping this one, at least until I am all out of other Heyer novels.
A Rollicking Romp of Intrigue and RevengeTYPE OF NOVEL: Georgian Romance, Historical FictionSETTING: 1750’s France and EnglandMAIN CHARACTERS:- Justin Alistair, Duke of Avon “Satanas”: a debauched rake who has earned the nickname “Satan” for all the scandalous and dishonorable deeds he commits.
(There is a lot of bad history between these two)SYNOPSIS:By chance on a walk home the Duke of Avon encounters Léon who is running away from his tyrannical brother.
😉- The Magnificent Climax: Throughout the story we learn that the Duke has an agenda against his mortal enemy, Saint-Vire, and that Léon plays some part in it all.
The hero was referred to by any one of about eleven different names or titles randomly throughout - "Justin" "The Duke" "Alastair" "Avon" "His Grace".
Leonie was funny but a bit of a twerp, she definitely didn't act 19 and her worshipful ADORATION of Alistavonjustingraceduke got on my nerves, as did his condescending "come here and let me wipe my feet on you, my infant" attitude to her.
Low-born people are dull, stodgy, unattractive and into farming - they're just BORN with an inbuilt longing to get out there with a plough and start turning over some arable land.
Or did she love him in a strictly non-platonic way from the start?
*sigh* *places hand on chest to still fluttering heart* Justin Alastair hasn't lost any of his charm.These Old Shades was the first Georgette Heyer book that I read, many, many, many years ago. It was always, and still is, my favourite. Witty, charming, with wonderful characters that were a pleasure to revisit.
I have hesitated to add a review of this because I'm pretty sure I can't do it justice. Brilliantly written, witty, fun and spot on historically. The Duke of Avon is one of the best heroes ever written. I love him and I can't see that anyone other than Leonie could have broken through his shell. Even though the romance is not torrid, you can see that absolute love he has for her. Sigh...
This is the unabridged audio on CD.One of my all time favorite Georgette Heyer titles masterfully read by Cornelius Garrett. He does an amazing job with the voice of the Duke of Avon. A story I have loved for years is given a new slant in this wonderful rendition.
Listened to the audio for the first time having read the book plenty of times.3.5 stars to the audioBut the story and the book remains an all-time fave, so always a 5+ starred reading experience...
I feel that Avon called Léonie an enfant  to convince himself that he wasn't falling in love with her, it was his way of reminding himself that he didn't have a heart to lose.
I think that in the years to come they will fair well as Avon views Léonie as a priceless jewel.
Monsieur does not mind?" "Pray do not consider me in the slightest,' answered Avon.
You will not lose me - or I you - very easily, I think." There was no answer, but Léon's head sank against his Grace's shoulder, and remained there.
It features two of Heyer’s most memorable characters: Justin Alastair, the Duke of Avon, and Leonie, whom he rescues from a life of ignomy and comes to love and marry”.My review If you meet Satanas in a dark alley in the middle of the night and you are desperately seeking escape from a wretched life of violence and harassment, maybe you’d be as happy as young Leòn at becoming his, body and soul, bought for a diamond pin.
