https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12738.The_Transit_of_Venus
While, at the beginning, it may seem to be a more conventional book (or BBC miniseries) about a bunch of attractive young people of different classes shut up in a country house, Hazzard's characters grow up, and her treatment of the loves of middle age, with all the associated losses, disappointment, compromises, and satisfactions, is truly brilliant.There were times when I found Hazzard's prose a little too elusive -- some of the sentences were puzzled over and still didn't unfold.
It has to be said that I read it under pressure, which is criminal for a Shirley Hazzard.
Fine for a plot-led thriller where the only point of interest is how it ends, but a novel by Ms Hazzard should be enjoyed at leisure.
And yet even she protested that she had to read this with the novel in one hand and a dictionary in the other.
There are several slow ticking bombs that Ms Hazzard surreptitiously plants during the course of the novel.
Shirley Hazard is without question a first rate wordsmith; she can write beautiful sentences and string them together into an exhilarating music.
But she seems incapable of writing a truly first rate novel.
Hazard is at her best when her characters are figuratively standing beneath a window in the pouring rain.
Lehman though did a much better job of examining the backstage realms of domesticity without belittling it as Hazard often does.
Hazard isn’t interested in her domesticated female until she’s contemplating adultery.
Also, stylistically this novel is a nightmare for the first fifty pages.
Until, it appears, Hazard begins to enjoy her characters and her story and relaxes.
I don’t even know how I felt about this book.
Everything sounded fancy and lovely and wise, but, I just don’t know…The main protagonist, Caro, for example, was as dry as day old toast.
There was so much unhappiness, infidelity, longing, brooding; it’s a mystery how this book managed to make me feel almost nothing.
This sounds like I didn’t like the book: I did!
While I appreciated and loved the writing, I was too aware of the book’s mechanics to ever let go completely.
The ending…Let’s just say, don’t read this when you’re sleepy and/or not concentrating completely.

My second Shirley Harzzard novel in a short space of time.
The previous, People in Glass Houses, I thoroughly enjoyed so was looking forward to reading The Transit Of Venus.
Be that as it may The Transit Of Venus is one of the most compelling novels I have read for reasons I am not going to be able to articulate particularly well.
The title is very good as the book is about Love but not in the cloying way I should imagine a Mills and Boons Novel being.
Some years ago I read a New Yorker story by Hazzard, "In These Islands." I read it a second time, then and there.
Then a third time.
There are expansive writers--like the late DFW, Whitman, Henry Miller--and there those who fuse language in a crucible: Dickinson, Laura Riding, George Oppen: poets more often than novelists...
though McCarthy has gone from one to the other, from the expansive Sutree to the compression of The Road.
No one can capture a character in passing a phrase like Hazzard...
compressed into a kind of breathless irony.
But the novel itself had me asking the question, When does a great writer become a great artist?
In other words, one gets the sense that Hazzard, in The Transit of Venus, set out to write a great novel.
There are certainly numerous stretches of great writing - but as a novel, I felt its Jamesian (last phase) excesses turned the reading into something of an ordeal by book's end.
In all it makes for an uneven reading effort - which is odd, given the precision of Hazzard's writing and plotting.
But the good news is that Hazzard has written a great novel - it's called The Great Fire.
I was caught by surprise by this book.
I think it is one of the finest written novels I have ever read.
The night I finished the book, I opened it back up and started reading it again.
It was tough to get started, she doesn't build the characters traditionally.
You find out odd things about them that don't seem important until much later in the book.
I think if you can make it through the first 100 pages you will be hooked and when you finish it you find that you have read one of the finest pieces of literature available.

But it is a safe bet that even the most attentive reader, at some point in the last 20-30 pages, will skim back through the book to find the breadcrumbs Shirley Hazzard left for us and to confirm that what you think happened did indeed happen.
More precisely, it is a novel about love – about the arc of its passage and its subjection to laws as inexorable as those that govern the movement of the planets.
But for me, this is not the brilliant novel that others seem to think it is.
The pace of the story was uneven - started slow, picked up, but then seemed to grind to a long slog to the 'big bang' ending.
And when I'm so distracted by a story's mechanics that I find myself thinking, "Add the next character, already!" (and then she does) I know it's not working for me.
The ending: I don't want to say too much about what others found to be a highly satisfying 'jolt' of a late back story.
The reward of Hazzard's prose throughout, though, is worth it; her descriptions and observations are amazing, so smart and perfectly, often devastatingly, wrought.
It's no mean feat to be able to pull readers into the minds and under the skin of characters the way she does here, while also managing a truly unique omniscient narrative voice--to those who hold that only macho males can pull of the knowing, confident, god-like authorial point of view, I say, pah!--Hazzard can swing with the best of them.And yes, there is that ending, not to be spoiled here.
Shirley Hazzard has a very distinctive and somewhat difficult prose style.
Often you have to read her sentences twice to get the full meaning and richness.
But once you become accustomed to her quirky sentence structures she is an absolute joy to read.
I can’t recall the last novel I read with so many brilliant insights into love and female feeling.It’s essentially the story of two sisters and their amorous lives.
And ostensibly it’s she who will suffer more.
Shirley Hazzard is very much what came after Elizabeth Taylor, Rosamond Lehman and Elizabeth Bowen.
And if you like those three writers you’ll love this.
An incredible book - Charlotte Wood's discussion says it all more eloquently than I ever could: https://sydneyreviewofbooks.com/trans...
"Grace had discovered that men prefer not to go through with things. When the opposite occurred, it made history: Something you'll remember always.She said, 'Women have to go through with things. Birth, for instance, or hopeless love. Men can evade forever.'There were exceptions--Ted Tice, or her own son. It would be dreadful if Rupert were to lay down his life, as Ted had done. Dreadful, and not unlikely.Light came through long windows, there was scent from stock in a vase. Two women were silent, one seated, one standing. While a man slept, like a baby, in an adjoining room."
La storia dell'osservazione del transito di Venere negli anni '60 del diciottesimo secolo (una storia incredibilmente affascinante di per sé) non è solo un pretesto per un intreccio - la storia ricalca lo spostamento degli astronomi e dei punti di osservazione negli spostamenti dei personaggi -, ma il vero tessuto di questo romanzo, capace di arricchire sia l'evento storico che la storia di finzione di significati tali da dare un ritratto distinto della natura umana secondo Shirley Hazzard.
Despite having an omniscient narrator, certain key information is withheld until very near the end (the reader finds out only when Caroline does); conversely, the ultimate fate of one of the other main characters is signalled in a throwaway sentence on page 12.
Her descriptions of Christian Thrale's dalliance with his secretary, or of Dora's emotional blackmail techniques, for example, are wickedly, astonishingly, brilliant.Four stars to Shirley Hazzard for telling a good story, and for writing that assumes the reader actually has a brain and is willing to use it.#####################################################Original comments (May 5th, 2008)I was puzzled by recurrent comments about Hazzard's writing style in people's reviews of this book - they seemed all over the map.
Add this to this list of amazing books I've read in the past year or so (along with Winter's Tale by Mark Helprin and The Unconsoled by Kazuo Ishiguro).
They are amazing in the sense that I haven't read anything quite like them before.
The Transit of Venus fits this last category (as do Winter's Tale and The Unconsoled).
Truthfully, I often also had to slow down to make sense of them.
Too often I tend to rush (after all, there are stack of books I want to read before I die).
This book was recommended to me because I like Thomas Hardy.
There's this diamond like sheen of the 50's to the 80's, where we are supposed to root for the two sisters to succeed in a man's world and to allow them to disengage from sex and marriage as being the only thing in life to live for, and as lofty as those goals are in the world of a novel I would like to care about the characters as people rather than ideals.
And yet they are not ideals, but regular women trying to make their way in the world so I don't know why I can't know these women in any real way.
The writing in this book amazes me. I am reading slowly and savoring it.Now I've read three chapters of Part II The Contacts. Some changes of scene, and the plots develop slowly.Tonight I finished the book, was gripped by the last Part. Karen, you were right. It all comes together at the end. I found out how much I care about all these disparate persons (except Dora).Can anyone tell me, what other Shirley Hazzard books should I read?
My god. I recall one vivid evening the summer before last when, mid-sentence, I gasped aloud and clutched The Great Fire to my chest as if to keep what I had just read, and felt, to myself. I finished The Transit of Venus in a similar welter of joy and pain. This book carried me. I think it is beautiful beyond my ability to tell you. I mean, I'm crying, right now, and I'm shortly to shut this laptop, cross the room, and bury my face in my husband's neck.
My favorite book ever. My personal gold standard for fiction. Each chapter a gem(may have been a New Yorker short story). Each sentence a marvel.
The richness of the language both beguiling yet forbidding, at times the sentences – whilst beautifully puzzling – also were so obtuse than i was unsure what was actually being written about.
And there is a romance to Hazzard's narratives (ok, i have only read this book and The Great Fire so let me backtrack on this generalisation) which is always strangely at odds with the dry cerebral writing.
Which is also what makes her an anachronism even more so today where language is often so pared back as to be invisible beyond the bones of the plot.Hazzard is also expert at energising her stories with a strong narrative drive so that even when i was unsure what was happening i had to keep reading.
Like Marilynne Robinson's Housekeeping, I bought this on the basis of a Bryan Appleyard article where he mentioned Hazzard as one of his contenders for greatest living novelist; in fact, he entertained the possibility that The Transit of Venus was 'the most perfect novel written in the past 100 years'.I was less taken by this one than the Robinson.
And occasionally it's very funny; there's a vein of acid social satire running through it which just helps give it a bit of an edge.
A very good example of a conventional novel, but conventional nonetheless.
It didn't help that I never quite settled with the prose style.
If you don't pay attention, you will miss it.
If you don't pay attention to the first page, you will miss a major plot point.This is a book to be read and reread, despite the moral indignation I felt at all but two of the male characters.
It almost reminded me of the movie, "Closer," a group of people hurting each other for the simple fun of emotional injury to another human.Make no mistake, this is a complex book, full of beautiful metaphor and intricate plot devices woven cleverly into intelligently-written and verbally-challenging prose.
Do not read this without a dictionary at hand.
I thought the author's use of language was generally 'too much.' She tones it down after the first 50 pages (perhaps the effort of keeping up that flowery pace was too much for her too), so if you are one of those people who hate it, you might give it at least the first 60 pages to see how it goes...
This is why it's so irritating when an author tells you a bunch of stuff you don't actually need to know.
If the author hands me a volkswagon toward the beginning and expects me to haul it all the way up there, it had better be important...
Following a glowing endorsement by Jennifer Burne on Second Tuesday Bookclub this was added to my collection.
I have to just ask Jennifer why...I just cannot connect with this book, with the characters, with the obscure writing style.
I've decided life is too short to spend finishing books I'm not enjoying so this one is going to stay 3/4 read.
There were a few passages I really enjoyed but it comes down to the characters, to me they were lifeless and dead, just emotional not present.
The detailed descriptions of their love for each other just left me cold - which reminds me of my reaction to another great love story - Doctor Zhivago.
The scene from the first few pages is one that still has not left me, several years from first reading this novel. It is perfectly written, bold, frightening. I find it a maddening experience overall, intriguing, brutal in it's dissection of relationships and intimacy (in a way that reminds me of d.h. Lawrence's lady chatterly's lover). The writing is often intoxicating, sometimes stiff and restrained. I want to re-read, expecting to find more to love and hate, but I'll need to brace myself before diving back in. Why the dramatic reaction? Who knows. I hope to find out.
This is too bleeping much! Too confusing, the women are just too too and I don't know what the point of it is. I supposed I would reread it if I were stuck somewhere without not so much as a cereal box to read. I don't subscribe to being a martyr to a book. I cannot imagine having an every day sort of conversation with the author. Surely she must not speak as she writes. I recommend skipping it and finding something truly enjoyable to read and report.
