https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27864391-the-danish-girl
The cinematography from the trailer alone tells me that the elegance has translated well to the big screen.However, though the author mentions in the afterword that it’s a work of fiction, I find it slightly problematic that only some of the names and the overall story about Einar/Lily are kept while his wife, Gerda, has been turned into an American from Pasadena in the novel called Greta (but not in the movie).
In other books, it would have been too much of what James Wood calls ‘thisness’, and to be honest, I didn’t need to be constantly reminded that the wardrobe was made of ash wood, for instance; or to know what everyone’s face looked like, no matter how irrelevant they were to the novel.
If it is Lili, then she might ask something about Einar.
Einar is timid; Greta intuits his longings and encourages him regardless of what it is she wants from this relationship.As Greta helps Einar to set Lili free, so she frees her paintings.
As Lili emerges from her chrysalis, so Greta's work blooms and evolves from drab portraits to masterful ones which sell as fast as she paints them.
Conversely, Einar, once the more successful artistic partner, paints less and less.In this extraordinary tale, prize winning author David Ebershoff explores the search of self and the dynamics of this unusual relationship* and he does so exquisitely.
pero ella era mujer (no se si hice mas agua el engrudo jajaja)It was June, and a month had passed since Einar had decided, on the bench in the park, that his and Lili's lives would have to part.Aun cuando la historia se trata de Einar y su genial transformacion a Lili, para mi el personaje principal fue Greta (en mi edición se llama así, aunque he visto que el nombre real es Gerda), ya que ella, siendo la esposa de Einar, fue la primera en invitar a este a vestirse como Lili.
This book presents a terrible representation of a trans woman. Rather than portray a trans experience, this portrays the experience of someone with dissociative identity disorder (which is barely a thing anyway). Worse than that, the source material is way more interesting than what is portrayed here. The artistic liberties the author took to flesh out the story were poorly thought out. How such an interesting story and vivid characters can be painted so flat is beyond me.This novel is a disservice to the gender and sexual minority spectrum.
Và vì thế, review này của tôi hoàn toàn chỉ là về cuốn sách “Cô gái Đan Mạch”, độc lập và không hề bị tác động bởi bộ phim đã quá nổi tiếng ^^Đúng như câu chuyện trong phim về hoàn cảnh dẫn đến việc Einar phát hiện ra giới tính thật sự của mình mà tôi đã biết được đôi chút, tiểu thuyết “Cô gái Đan Mạch” cũng bắt đầu bằng cảnh Greta (người vợ vào tiểu thuyết thì bị đổi tên từ Gerda thành Greta) nhờ chồng mình là Einar mặc thử bộ đồ dành cho phụ nữ và ngồi làm người mẫu để mình hoàn thành bức tranh.
Actual rating 2.5In the opening pages of this story, the reader is witness to the first time that Einar Wegener is asked to model for his wife’s painting.
The subject of her painting, an opera singer named Anna, is otherwise engaged, and Einar does have the slender build to fit Anna’s dress, stockings, and shoes.Einar is surprised at how much he enjoys the feel of the dress, and realises that it may be hinting at the thing he’s been missing his whole life; that he is, in fact, a woman.And thus, Lili Elbe is born.This has all the elements to be a compelling story about finding out who you truly are, fighting for who that is even if the world disagrees, and it explores the kind of suffering that relates to that struggle so well.
This year's list has 52 categories in which I need to read by the end of the year.
I know many people think transvestism falls into that category.
A difficult topic would work, but I think that's a cop out.
LGBT topics in 2017 should not be considered "difficult".
Then I found it-main character is an interesting woman.
He found inspiration for this novel in the life of artists Einar Wegener and Greta, who one day persuades Einar to donn silk stockings and high heels and model for her painting instead of her main subject.
I hope Einar/Lili found true happiness.2017 Reading Challenge: interesting female character
For example, the main characters Einar and Greta Weneger have the same names as their real-life counterparts.
Einar's story as he transforms into Lily is pretty close to what actually happened - at least dates, places, and a few facts.
But the real Greta Weneger was totally different than the fictional one - she was Danish, not American and so all the stuff about coming from California was totally fabricated, I guess Ebersoff was interested in writing about Pasadena.
So I ask, why not just make up different names for your characters ?
Why use the real-life names but then not have anything else factual?
This book takes us on an interesting journey of Einer Wegener turns into Lili Elbe.
I was intrigued, interested, and completely drawn into the time period.
From that moment one, Lili emerges onto the story.
I was wrapped up in this whole story including the medical procedures Lili endures, until the very end.
The ending left me still in need of an explanation that I never got.
I can appreciate endings where you use your imagination, but with so much time and pages spent setting up all the different pieces, I needed something more concrete.
I was lulled to sleep by most of this book. The book,characters and storytelling fell flat. I wanted to like/love this book,I was fascinated by the concept,the fact that it was loosely based on a true story. I was all in,but it just failed to hook me.Perhaps it is simply a case of wrong book,wrong time.
Todo lo que pueda decir, se queda corto al lado de Lily.
I haven't read the book, but I'm looking forward to seeing Eddie Redmayne and his freckles in this film tonight.
Depois, outros livros foram saindo e este livro foi ficando na wishlist e acabou por não sair de lá até agora.
Desde já devo agradecer à gentileza da Porto Editora que prontamente acedeu ao meu pedido e mo enviou para que pudesse ler antes de ter a curiosidade de ver o filme.Einar Mogens Wegener, ficou conhecido por ter sido, muito provavelmente o primeiro transexual a submeter-se a uma cirurgia genital, tendo abandonado definitivamente o seu nome de baptismo após a realização dessa cirurgia a adoptado legalmente o nome de Lili Ilse Elvenes e parado de pintar.
1) The multiculturalism the author tries to get across by wildly throwing around names of places in Danish, French, German - and then having the audio book narrated by a person who cannot pronounce a single word correctly in any of those languages.
It is so not supposed to sound like Eeyore.2) Einar/Lily's personalities.
Because why else would Lily be so "confused" all the time about things that hat happened to Einar?3) Greta's lack of personality.
4) Lily's meekness, and the audio book narrator's way of enforcing this annoying meekness with the meekest of voices.5) The tragic potential that never unfolded.
While I found the story compelling based as it is on the true story of Einar Wegenar's transition from male to female and his wife who stayed loyal to him and supported him throughout, it was the writing which irked.
I'm sure it will make for an interesting film, I do recommend this book though especially to anyone who is interested in gender and transgender issues.
The people he loved most were there for him and Lili and didn't judge him.
That is more than some could say even in this day and age.Though I liked this story I feel that it will actually make a better movie than a book.
I can't wait to actually see it.Not only did this book bring to my attention a movie that I knew nothing about but now has skyrocketed to the top of my must see list, it also got me googling my little heart out trying to find out all I could about the true story that this book is based on.
Boring. The real people this book is based on are 1000 times more interesting. Very poor representation of a trans persons' transition. Don't read this book, it's a waste of your time.
I'm looking forward to the film version which everyone says is brilliant and of course Alicia Vikander won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her portrayal of Gerda.
The book is a fictionalized account of a real life couple, Gerda and Einar Wegener.
I just wish I had liked it more.
I wanted to add to this review and point out that I have now watched the movie version of this book and loved it!
My advice is to see the Oscar nominated film and don't bother reading the book.
I may never say something like that again!
Първите думи са най-трудни, когато знаеш, че искаш да опишеш роман, който не може да бъде описан в думи.
На повърхността това е роман за трансформацията на един мъж в жена.
Чудеш се дали някога ще се осмелиш да бъдеш истинския ти.
Дали в живота ти има любов, която те освобождава по такъв начин, че да не можеш да не се осмелиш - да потърсиш кой си и да се намериш някъде там...Това не е обикновена книга за физическа трансформация.
Това е книга за трансформацията на духа.
Разказ за това да си готов да погубиш себе си, за да бъдеш себе си.

For everyone that wants to read this book, here's a friendly advice: go watch the movie.
THE DANISH GIRL (sadly) didn't become on my radar until I came across the film last month (Eddie Redmayne can do no wrong) & saw that it was also a book, so of course reading it is only the natural thing to do.
Why bother "loosely basing" your story off an actual person if you're not even going to take the time to make sure the personality is accurate?Minor issues: * Lili & Gerda's marriage- was the goal here to create a romantic & loving marriage or just two people living under the same roof?
(3.5) About 25% into this book I described it as “delightfully boring” and I think that by the end, I’ll stick to what I said; The Danish Girl is a delightful mix of an extraordinary story and a boring account of everyday life
Senza particolari drammi o discriminazioni la storia di Einar e della sua metamorfosi segue un percorso sereno, graduale e poi sempre più voluto, agognato fino alla fase risolutiva e dolorosa della sua trasformazione...
Non ci sono mai delle particolari gelosie, solo tanta comprensione e partecipazione...
Poi sarà consapevole di dover dire addio a Einar e staccarsi da Lily...Ci sono pezzi davvero molto poetici, delle belle atmosfere nordiche,..insomma una storia raccontata quasi in punta di penna senza isterismi o volgarità ma con tanta discrezione, rispetto e amore...
This historical novel, by David Ebershoff, is about the first transexual to undergo a sex change (in this case, a man who becomes a woman) set in the early 1900s.
The story is an intertwining of two lives, the man who undergoes the sex change and his wife.
As the man struggles with accepting who he is (beginning with small steps of dressing in women's clothing to pose privately for his wife's paintings and taking on larger and more risky steps), his art career diminishes just as his wife's takes off.
Cumplió mis expectativas , me gusto la novela , da para discutir muuuuuchas cosas
Întâi a fost filmul și poate că a fost mai bine așa, pentru că am avut-o mereu pe Lili în față, așa cum i-a dat viață actorul care i-a jucat magistral rolul.
Trei ani mai târziu i-a venit rândul cărții și cred cu tărie că e o lectură esențială pentru oricine vrea să citească cărți LGBT foarte bune.
Mi-a plăcut pentru transformările prin care trece Einar și pentru lupta pe care o dă cu sine, dar mai ales pentru dragoste tacită și fără limite pe care i-o poartă Greta.
Fără doar și poate e unul dintre cele mai frumoase romane de dragoste pe care eu am pus mâna.
No sé por otro lado si lo recomendaría, me cuestiono qué partes realmente sucedieron y cuales no, una lástima que no se consigan las memorias de Lili en español, creo que eso me hubiera gustado mucho más leer.
RESEÑA COMPLETA ➜ http://goo.gl/5OXSp4Debo confesar que la primera vez que vi el tráiler de “La chica danesa” me enamoré un poco de la historia y moría de ganas de ver la película. Entonces me enteré que estaba basada en un libro (como casi todas las películas de hoy en día) y me enamoré más, así que busque por todos lados el libro peropor más que lo buscaba no lo encontraba disponible en el país así que ya me había hecho a la idea de que iba a tener que pedirlo en booky cuando descubrí que C
Entonces me enteré que estaba basada en un libro (como casi todas las películas de hoy en día) y me enamoré más, así que busque por todos lados el libro peropor más que lo buscaba no lo encontraba disponible en el país así que ya me había hecho a la idea de que iba a tener que pedirlo en booky cuando descubrí que Colofón Editorial lo tenía en su catálogo, así que de verdad quiero agradecer a la editorial por traer este maravilloso libro.Ahora sí, después de mi casi triste historia les hablaré del libro, el cual nos cuenta la historia del joven matrimonio de Greta y Einar Wagener, dos prometedores pintores que residen en Copenhague.
Una storia vera molto interessante, che, tuttavia, né il romanzo, né la pellicola raccontano in modo esaustivo, ossia prendendo in considerazione tutte le ambiguità del rapporto matrimoniale tra Einar Wegener/Lili Elbe, il primo transgender conosciuto sottoposto a operazioni chirurgiche di “riassegnazione sessuale” (‘sto termine, “riassegnazione sessuale”, mi fa francamente un po’ ridere: sembra una roba tipo pacco postale che arriva a un destinatario sbagliato e allora, quando se ne accorgono, rifanno su la confezione alla bell’e meglio, ci scrivono sopra “NUOVO INDIRIZZO” e rispediscono il tutto, sperando che questa volta vada tutto bene e non saltino fuori altre grane) e sua moglie Gerda Gottlieb, come lui/lei artista di rilievo all’epoca (stiamo parlando dei primi anni del ‘900).
