https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59960.Batman
........................ FIRST A BRIEF HISTORY LESSON................................BEFORE "The Dark Knight Returns".............................  HOLY ASSCLOWNS BATMANand don’t forget (though I know you WANT TO)   UHH, UMM....I HAVE NOTHING TO SAY TO THIS AS IT IS JUST TOO PAINFUL....WAITER....CHECK PLEASE!!!!...BUT THANKFULLY................................AFTER "The Dark Knight Returns".................... WE WERE GIVEN........   HOLY REVERSAL OF FORTUNE, THE DARK KNIGHT IS A SCARY DUDE AGAI
FIRST A BRIEF HISTORY LESSON................................BEFORE "The Dark Knight Returns".............................
One of the most influential graphic novels of all time, this amazing story single-handedly resurrected the character of Batman as "the Dark Knight" after the 70s and early 80s had turned him, thanks in large part to the success of the television show, into a light-hearted, campy hero (I refer you back to the history lesson above).
Following its success, comics saw the creation of very popular “anti-heros” like Wolverine and  the Punisher, both of which were inspired by Miller’s version of the Dark Knight.
Believe me, I know how dangerous it can be to wade into dork shark infested waters.And if (God forbid) I wrote a review saying I didn't like this?!I've picked this up from the library multiple times, flipped through it, stuck it in my bag, and then took it back to my local branch at my earliest convenience.Because.deep breathBecause of the huge amount of dialogue, and all those fucking Talking Heads!I mean, for real, Miller?
BatmanYou gave my book two stars? MeYes, it was boring and too political. Who wants a bunch of boring politics? I couldn't take it anymore...and I've always been your fangirl.Batman Me.Don't make me give you the Batglare...you aren't a whiny ass Batman MeQuit whining..Two stars from me is pretty good. Batman Me Batman
(I do love a good soap.) Batman was a joke back then, thanks to that moronic TV show.
But Batman, the real Dark Knight, wasn't a joke--if Superman is who America yearns to be; Batman is who we're afraid we are.In 1986, Frank Miller (Sin City) blew all of the camp out of the water and reclaimed a bit of popular culture by writing a stunning Batman and, not so incidentally, a picture-perfect example of why graphic novels aren't for kids.
It's not just the original Dark Knight, it's who that character evolved into.
The movie Batman Begins never would have been made without this Dark Knight.
This is a totally different spin on Batman first published in 1986 by Frank Miller. Don't expect it to be like the old cartoons. Definitely not like the Adam West Batman from the 60s. Not the Justice League of America. Batman and Superman are hardly on speaking terms. The governments have passed laws against vigilante super heroes so most of them are in prison or banished, or, like Superman, secretly working for the government. Batman, after a series of traumatic incidents, has not been seen in
from the new Robin and a setup for the next book in the series, where Batman decides to free some of the super heroes in prison.
Manning in the "1980s" chapter of DC Comics Year By Year A Visual Chronicle (2010) called the series "arguably the best Batman story of all time." (Wiki)PUSHES THE BATMAN GENRE OR TURNS IT ON ITS HEAD: A minus to A; STORY/PLOTTING: B plus to A minus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B plus; ARTWORK PRESENTATION: B to B plus; ACTION SETUPS: B plus to A minus; WHEN READ LAST: 2008 (3 times total); OVERALL GRADE: B plus to A minus.
On the 10 year anniversary of the last Batman sighting Bruce's subconscious "Batman" fights back telling him Bruce he is just the shell and he is not done with him yet.Most of what I though was great about the movies holds true to the comic, with a couple of exception.
I have to say I prefer the animation of the movies, but I think at the time of the comic and for what is trying to be portrayed it does work.
The main thing I did not like about the comic was I thought there was too much of the talking heads.

I chose Batman: The Dark Knight Returns for two reasons – I’m a Frank Miller fan and .
I realize Batman has been out of commission for quite some time at the onset of this story and he has to work out the kinks while battling evil, but did his voice have to sound so much like this guy????
Between the news reports, Batman moaning about his aches and pains, and the bad guy mutants reminding me how they were going to “raze Gotham” and “rape the women” and “bathe in Gotham’s blood” every third page I found my attention wandering more than a time or two.All that being said, there were some good points.
Call it art if you want to, but at the end of the day it’s still a dopey comic book about a guy in a form-fitting outfit who runs around beating people up.
Am I missing something?But really, I’m just mad at myself for giving four stars to Batman: Year One the other day, apparently during a manic episode.
What was Batman thinking when he installed an androgynous 13-year-old pixy as his sidekick—then led her into hand-to-hand combat against a mob of slavering lowlifes?
The Dark Knight Returns tops my list of best graphic novels ever written for what it did for the genre, what it did for Batman and what it stands as today.
As a man straddling the line between hero and vigilante, as a man with a dark past he keeps running from and with villains who rise up against his heroic light.
The question is also raised that when one devotes oneself to fighting evil so incessantly if there is a cost, and the idea that Batman is a man who fights on only to keep running is again brought up.This is a masterpiece and if you are into graphic novels a must read work.
But he’s still a hero, and still dark, still pissed off and still wants to not only get the bad guy, but punish him, beat the shite out of him and make it really hurt.This is like if Batman were Rocky Balboa.
Not the 1976 version, a young warrior; this Batman is the Rocky Balboa of the same film name in 2006, old and coming out of retirement, and like the Toby Keith song: not as good as he once was, but he's as good once as he ever was.A more observant and inspired reviewer than me once noted that Marvel had humans who were striving to be gods; DC had gods struggling to be human.
In fact, I will go so far as to suggest that we're damn lucky Frank Miller can express himself in words and pictures (and get rich doing it) because if he couldn't express himself artistically (or was a failed artist like a certain Viennese painter), I'd put money on him walking into a theatre or a Sikh temple or a political round table and opening fire.The Dark Knight Returns is an ugly manifesto for vigilantism; it is the mad nightmare of a right wing kook who sees the world in ways that it simply isn't; it is an apologia for the first strike; it offers chaos and evil and calls it anarchy without any understanding of what anarchy is; it is a jingoistic, Soviet-era piece of Cold War propaganda; it is an attempt to rationalize violence as the proper response to violence; it attempts to reinforce the myth that a "good man" (or country?) can do bad things to bad people and the act cannot, therefore, be bad; yet it offers the tools to undermine and deconstruct the delusions of its author with what seems to be total obliviousness.There is no depth to the characters in this book.
This is unfortunate, especially when you know it's a panel that's supposed to be conveying something extremely a) emotional/moving, or b) important to the story.Finally, a personal opinion, which only affects my review insomuch as ratings are partially based on personal taste: I liked Batman the way he was before Frank Miller "reinvented" him.
I do not like this bitter, cranky old man Batman who gets pleasure from hurting people.
I like the heroic old-fashioned Batman who hurts bad guys simply because they're bad guys and he's the good guy.
You don't get it, son. This isn't a mudhole... It's an operating table. And I'm the surgeon. The Dark Knight Returns is Frank Miller's most popular comic (at least here on GR) and arguably the best Batman comic ever. Originally published in four installments in 1986, it single-handedly undid the damage done to the Bat by the goofy 60's show with Adam West. Situation at the time was pretty tragic. Initial success of the West show influenced the writers of the Batman comics who adapted a similar,
He invented the Dark Knight.The Dark Knight Returns opens in a world where Bruce Wayne is 55 years old, and has not worn the cape for 10 years; the younger generation doesn't even believe that Batman was real, and considers him to be just a myth.
At the same time, the fact that it is Batman who is responsible for both making the Joker catatonic with his disappearance and bringing him out of it with his return is something to be considered.
Before Frank Miller’s “Dark Knight Returns” Batman was a joke; the comics were weak with Batman and Robin doing the same thing week in week out, it’s no coincidence that there are few books worth reading before Miller’s work - all the great Batman “must-reads” (The Killing Joke, Year One, The Long Hallowe’en, Hush, Dark Victory) follow this interpretation of the character.
There are so many quotable lines in the book and I’m only going to list a few to give you a flavour of Miller’s interpretation of Batman: “This would be a good death...
reading the other reviews, I've come to realize that people use "The Dark Knight" as a nickname for any old Batman these days -- like calling Satan "Old St. Nick," or George Bush "Dubya".
(The book would have been a milestone in comics for her work alone.)Fans of the most recent Batman movie should read this and realize that Miller's graphic novel was the blueprint.
At the time, nobody else had the vision to take Batman's mythology back to its dark origins.Of course, if you find superheroes puerile, I don't think this will change your mind.
Never have been a Frank Miller fan. The art, page layouts, characterization (especially Batman and Superman), and dialogue in this one left me saying "What is so great about this again?" Guess I'll reread Watchmen again.
After reading lots of other Batman comics, new runs like Morrison, Tomasi, Snyder, and the classics like this, Year One, Long Halloween, Black Mirror, The Killing Joke, Joker, I can see how far the influence of The Dark Knight Returns reaches.
(hide spoiler)] Bruce is feeling rather dead inside because Batman, the Dark Knight, is actually who he really is.
So there's truth to this scapegoating.Themes I noticed: demons/regret, doing more harm than good, violence in society/media, vigilantism, bureaucratic hypocrisy, religious zealots, classism, order versus chaos.
The media also blames Gordon's incompetence for the violence.
I talked to comics geek friend m.poulet recommended Batman, The Dark Knight Returns in particular.
I can see that although no particular sub-themes or characters from this graphic novel were recycled into the Batman Trilogy, the return of Bruce Wayne after retirement and his state of physical exhaustion was pretty similar in both I felt.
I also thought that the darkness of Batman in this comic and in the film were very simular.I read also the other Frank Miller Batman: Year One but was less amazed by the graphics and story.
To be honest, I'm kind of disappointed, because I thought I would enjoy this more. The drawings are messy and so is the plot, which is often difficult to follow. There are some redeeming qualities, and I can appreciate this comic for providing a darker turn for Batman, but it failed to leave a strong impression on me.
I read comics/graphic novels more for the art than the story and this was just piss poor.
Compared to some of the other Batman works I've read (not many in all honesty) this pales in comparison to say Batman: The Long Halloween or Batman: The Killing Joke which were not only top notch stories but really well drawn.
I don't get the hype surrounding this at all, it's classed as one of the best graphic novels out there but luckily this wasn't my entry into the comic world otherwise I could have been put off for good.
5.5 stars!  It is 1960s “Batman” vs. 1980s “Batman!” Guess which one will win!  Introduction:  For many years, I have actually grown up with the darker version of Batman when I was little, thanks to the animated TV series that came out of the 90s. But a few years back, I have realized that there was a 1960s TV series where Batman seems a bit campy, but I had enjoyed it for what it was. Now, I had heard of a particular “Batman” story that was the one that really changed Batman’s character over t
Now, I had heard of a particular “Batman” story that was the one that really changed Batman’s character over the years and that story happened to be “Batman: The Dark Knight Returns” written by Frank Miller along with artwork by Klaus Janson and Lynn Varley.
I also loved the dark and gritty feel of this book as the Batman in this book is not afraid of hurting enemies to get what he wants and even recruits a young girl named Carrie Kelley, who is dressed up like Robin, to be his sidekick.
I was unfortunate enough to be born in the nineties so I wasn't there to see firsthand how Batman's narrative evolved in the comics and I was quite envious of those who were there to witness what Frank Miller accomplished when he wrote The Dark Knight Returns; considering how much of its impact still echoes in the modern interpretations of Batman and his villains to this very day.Still, that also means that I can view this piece of literature objectively without being swept away by its legacy.
Along with the stupid repetition are phrases which make absolutely no sense whatsoever.
Anyway, it took way to long to just get to the damn point.Once again, Frank Miller has marred the character of Selina Kyle.
She's portrayed as a fat old whore with bad makeup and frizzy pink hair.
And the new police commissioner looks like a lesbian stereotype.
Please, Frank, tell us how you really feel about women.
The new Robin has ridiculously stupid hair, but at least she's not a whore.
However, this is not the future I want for Batman or Bruce Wayne.
بتمن: پدر و مادر من، وقتی در این خیابان افتاده بودند، وقتی داشتند دست و پا می زدند و جان می کندند، وقتی داشتند بی دلیل می مردند، چیزی به من آموختند:به من آموختند که دنیا فقط وقتی بر مدار درستی می چرخد، که به زور وادارش کنی.بتمن: شوالیه ی تاریکی سقوط می کندشوالیه ی تاریکی باز می گردد، کمیکی چهار جلدی است نوشته شده توسط فرانک میلر، نویسنده ی کمیک های معروف "شهر گناه" و "300" و "بتمن: سال نخست".این کمیک و کمیک "نگهبانان" اثر "آلن مور"، آغازگر دوره ای از صنعت داستان های مصور هستند که به نام "دوره ی سیاه" یا "دوره ی مدرن" شناخته می شود.
عدالت دیگر یک مفهوم مطلق نیست، بلکه خیلی از قهرمانان این دوره، با معیاری، مجرمانی وحشی و خطرناک هستند.همینطور دشمنان آن ها نیز همیشه انسان هایی نیستند که ذاتاً پلید باشند و به خاطر شرارت شرارت کنند.
How do you review something as iconic and influential as The Dark Knight Rises?On one level, I suppose you could ask whether or not this four-issues mini-series lives up to the hype and accolades heaped upon it over the years?
And the fact that it revolutionized not only Batman but all of comics is another major feather in its cap.It's influence on the Christopher Nolan trilogy of films can't be denied--especially elements used in this summer's The Dark Knight Rises.
And for me, that's one of the fundamental things a comic book or graphic novel should be in order to be "perfect." It should be something that I enjoyed and that I want to read again.
i have been reading this for a few days nowand i can tell you its poorly executed but its still damn
While I always considered Batman as a somewhat on the right in a political sense here he operates in a far more dangerous fascist future.Batman has gone and retired.
The world has taken a right-wing fascist direction where freedom of speech is still practiced even if it is no longer a valuable thing as it is used to cover a lot of wrongdoings in the world.
They even go as far as to sick the "once" worlds greatest superhero on him.While this comic does show us a world we considered fictitious, we have gotten closer to that image in the recent years.
DNF - page 90I'm cleaning my currently reading shelf and I'm cringing at the thought of having to read this comic further. I dislike the art, the page layout and the female Robin. I'm sorry for that because Batman, but I just cannot.
4,5 / 5La historia narra como en un futuro Bruce Wayne ha abandonado su rol de Batman en la ciudad de Gotham desde hace diez años.
Por ello Bruce Wayne se debate en la incertidumbre sobre si proteger la ciudad o desaparecer, ya no es tan rápido ni ágil como antes, pero si que es más sabio.
Mi pequeña pega a toda la historia es Robín, no tiene un periodo de adaptación, simplemente llega y ya está, por lo que me chirría un poco en una obra donde se visualiza todo tan construido y detallado.En cuanto al estilo gráfico, es algo acercado a un boceto acabado.
