https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36644.Nightbirds_on_Nantucket
Man, I love these books.
The Wolves of Willoughby chase is really good, and deservedly a classic, but where's the love for Dido Twite?
Not that I'm condoning truancy, I'm merely condoning reading these books (stay in school!).
Not all of the Dido books are as good as this one, however.
Fortunately the last book, The Witch of Clatteringshaws, was good again (Aiken's last.
R.I.P) are the best.
For some reason Aiken maintained that she liked the UK covers.
As if, man, as if.Dido gets a bag put over her head in pretty much every book.
Into the first category come words such as ‘‘havey-cavey,’’ ‘‘mint-sauce,’’ and ‘‘sapskull.’’ The second includes ‘‘betwaddled,’’ and ‘‘tipple-topped.’’ In the last come words for which I can find no dictionary meaning: ‘‘croopus!’’, ‘‘lobbed his groats’’ and ‘‘in the nitch.’’ Although Dido is not the sole user of dialect or slang, the originality of her speech is intrinsic to her character and helps endear her to the reader.
What it evokes is the language of the time and it epitomises Dido Twite."--Lathey, G.
A havey-cavey business: language in historical fiction with particular reference to the novels of Joan Aiken and Leon Garfield in Historical Fiction for Children: Capturing the Past, F.M. Collins, and J.
, this title was originally illustrated by Robin Jacques, and it is a shame that his drawings were not retained in later editions.Addendum: Because the reading order of this series is somewhat complicated, I have included this handy guide, which is organized by publication date, and which I recommend to prospective readers of the series, rather than the one offered here on Goodreads:Reading Order for the Series:1) The Wolves of Willoughby Chase2) Black Hearts in Battersea3) Nightbirds on Nantucket4) The Whispering Mountain5) The Cuckoo Tree6) The Stolen Lake7) Dido and Pa8) Is Underground9) Cold Shoulder Road10) Dangerous Games11) Midwinter Nightingale12) The Witch of ClatteringshawsA few notes:--
Çocukluğumda okuduğum macera romanlarına benziyordu. Heyecanla ve keyifle okudum.
I think that I as a child figured out all these expressions by context and it is interesting to see that the younger niece does that automatically and the 7th grader wants instant explanations.
It will be nice when we reach the Twite books I never read.The Wolves of Willoughby Chase, Black Hearts in Battersea and Nightbirds on Nantucket comprise an amazing trilogy, and one I reread many times in elementary school.
Note to self - must go to Nantucket some time!I remember fondly the NY Betsy-Tacy group's visit to Books of Wonder to meet the now deceased Joan Aiken, and read sadly recently that her sister, Jane Aiken Hodge, passed away.
Okay, this is actually the third book in the series.
The series goes as follows:1.
Nightbirds on Nantucket4.
Dido and Pa7.
Cold Shoulder RoadThere are more, but these are the best.You can read them in order, or not (I didn't, and I actually recommend reading Nightbirds on Nantucket first, reading the other two as prequels, and then continuing on in order), but you absolutely must read them, because they are adventurous and funny and scary and sad and feature the strongest, most capable, most realistic, and least obnoxious heroine that I have ever had the pleasure of meeting—the incomparable Dido Twite!
Meanwhile, Dickens (or indeed any of his contemporaries) wrote several plots about orphans and suchlike being badly bullied and manipulated by adults who should have known better; this is certainly the case with Dutiful Penance and Dido, both of whom who have lost at least one parent.Lastly, Melville's most famous novel Moby Dick is clearly a part model for Night Birds in Nantucket: a pink whale called Rosie Lee and the madly driven Captain Casket parallel the white whale Moby Dick and Captain Ahab, and a ship is indeed sunk by the action of the whale -- though not in the way one would guess, let alone expect.Amazingly there is even an assassination attempt on the British monarch in this novel, much like the young Queen Victoria who nearly lost her life by a bullet at the end of May 1842.
There are of course some wonderful things that would appeal to a younger audience in this novel and at some points, it really feels like a classic piece of literature, giving me all the old Blyton "feels" that I used to experience every time I cracked open a Secret Seven, Famous Five or Faraway Tree book but unfortunately, I didn't feel the plot was as strong compared to Aiken's previous novels in the series.In this third book in the series, we see the triumphant return of fan favourite, Dido Twite who was first introduced to us in Black Hearts In Battersea and for a short time, I felt incredibly irritated by until the story developed further and she became more endearing than annoying!
One of my favorites as a child!
This is a daft but fun read.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
I have no idea how many times I've read this but at least ten or fifteen since I first ran across it in the elementary school library when I was about 8.
I had no idea it was part of a series, as I remember only this and The Wolves of Willoughby Chase were in our library in those days.
Neither will the reader.After 42 years it's still a good read, and I'm sure I'll read it again some day.
A fun read, but not up to the standards of the rest of the giant heap of "should've read this ages ago" books I've been going through.
The main threat is just silly (a giant gun that will shoot across the Atlantic to kill King James in London, the recoil from which will push Nantucket into New York Harbor).
Silly in a good way, of course--I don't mean to be a wet blanket here--but, given the context in which I read it, not nearly as realistic as I'd expect.
This is an old book with a fun little story that was engaging and quick to read. Essentially about a whaling family who spends time searching for a pink whale, rescues a girl from the ocean, and destroys and evil plot to another nation. I won't give more details but I just found it fun and delightful to read. That said, I wouldn't bother buying it out but if you get a chance to borrow it then go for it.
Dido Twite awakens on a Nantucket whaler, having slept for ten months after being rescued from a shipwreck in the arctic. Now, before she can make her way back to her beloved England, she must help Captain Casket's daughter Dutiful Penitence face her fear of everything other than Bible study and needlepoint. No easy task in the face of Pen's new guardian, the sinister Aunt Tribulation! But is Aunt Trib all she appears to be? This is a mystery, an adventure story, and a very, very funny book.
One of my favourite childhood authors.
I feel well-versed in the workings of whalers, and the chase, and I wonder if Aiken read that classic as research.
It's worth remarking upon Aiken's amazing use of context, because I always knew what Dido meant, even if I couldn't re-phrase it into modern English.Technically, I suppose, a work of historical fiction, this book meshes the farming island feel of L.M. Montgomery's Anne of Green Gables with the seafaring adventurousness of Treasure Island and--oh, I dunno, Little Red Riding Hood?
Aiken's writing is some of the most beautiful I've ever read--lyrical, evocative, amusing, and just gorgeous--making this a book I'd happily recommend to anyone.
He is so obsessed with finding “Rosie” the whale that he leaves Pen and Dido at his Nantucket home with Aunt Tribulation.
Dido teaches Pen to stand up against Trib, and the girl develops some backbone.Nightbirds is an “off-shoot” of Aiken’s Wolves of Willoughby Chase series, but the story won’t confuse readers who are unfamiliar with the earlier books.
Dido, Nate, and Pen thwart an assassination attempt on King James III in the story’s climax.While the Wolves of Willoughby Chase books are set in England with English characters, Nightbirds has a distinctly American flavour.
When Dido feels better, she is asked by Captain Casket to make friends with his daughter who refuses to leave her cabin.
He leaves Dido and Pen with Aunt Tribulation whilst he searches for the pink whale.
She’s a little bit cocky, but in a loveable way.I wasn’t a massive fan of this book although I can definitely appreciate that most children will enjoy the adventure.
I felt like it was very over the top and whilst I recognise that this series is a little over the top, I didn’t connect with the story as much as I have in the other two books.
While I'm used to reading about ridiculous and funny characters in this series, Captain Casket was a bit too ridiculous, and I found his obsession with the pink whale to be perplexing.
If I'm honest, I didn't really get the point of the pink whale for most of the story, and when the author DID tie it all in, I still felt as if it was a bit lackluster.
I am going to continue to read the next book in the series and see what else Dido is going to do!
I read this book so long ago - 6th grade maybe?
I don't know what I liked about it then and I could not remember the characters much or the storyline at all before I reread it, but there was an excitement of reading that began because of it.
When I read it as a child, I didn't realize it was part of a series, so now I am going back and reading the series.
Aiken has a way of making her characters so much fun to read.
Dido Twite - what other character is quite like her?
I loved Dido Twite's personality.
I would have no problem reading the rest of the books, especially if Dido is in them.
I had to keep backing up to re-read what he said and try to decipher it.
There were so many places that had me thinking "There's almost no way they're getting out of this one," but, since there were a quantity of characters in the main story line, there was always someone somewhere and Aiken spaced things out in a way that it really did give you that sinking feeling before she revealed the back side of the scene.
My kids and I love how each book in this series is related but the focus shifts to the adventures of a minor character from the previous book.
This book focuses on Dido, a poor street smart girl who REALLY shines has a hilarious and brilliant protagonist.
The dialog is so fun to read out loud, and Dido has a fabulous accent that is nicely written.
This author is a master of making voices easy to do and making the way her characters speak memorable and part of their role in the story.
My kids really enjoyed this book.
Wild fun for old and youngA great tale of Adventure from an obscure part of American history that can be enjoyed by young and old alike. Is also a good message to young children about independence. And engaging story about two very different girls who overcome fear and doubt and save their Island with bravery intelligence, and dare I say it good old-fashioned pluck, highly recommended for all.
Here Joan Aiken continues her interconnecting series of stories set in Jamesian England with this successor to "Black Hearts in Battersea" by telling the tale of Dido Twite, who has been carried off on a whaling ship to Nantucket. Here, our plucky heroine saves the day and the English monarch, Good King James, in a rollicking good read. Improbable as it may be, the story makes it all believably well-constructed. It's the best kind of story!
This another great book from The Wolves Chronicles. Dido Twite wakes up on a ship and ends up having an important task to do which ends up putting her in another dangerous situation.An enjoyable read. I took so long because life got too busy. Joan Aiken really is a fantastic writer as she combines a thrilling plot with some darkness and plenty of humour.
The eventful return of Dido Twite. The further doings of Simon's friend Dido, and her run-ins with imposters, intriguers, and a pink whale. Will she ever get home to London? Will Nantucket be spared a fate worse than death. Read it and see. Girls will be girls.
Delightful. Long may Rosie gambol!
Rereading my childhood favorites!! This is certainly one of my favorite books of all time. Can't wait to reread the rest of the series.
Clever fast paced tale about a pink whale, N as Nantucket, and people trying to overthrow the King of England. Loved the unusual names of the Quakers.
I always enjoy these books, the atmosphere and use of language is second-to-none.
