https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41457.Hitty_Her_First_Hundred_Years
Over a period of 100 years Hitty can hear all that goes on around her but cannot speak or influence her fate, but we know at some point she has been able to tell her story.Hitty begins life around a hundred years ago.
We googled Hitty and found that this story was inspired by a real doll that the author found in an antique shop, there are some photo's and Hitty is in a museum now, if you have read this book I'm sure you will agree Hitty really deserves a peaceful retirement after the life she has had!
This was charming, but slight.
It's a children's book about a wooden doll and her adventures over a hundred years, including some time on a whaling ship, being worshipped as an idol in the South Seas, time in India among missionaries (I did sort of wonder about the geography that got her from one to the other.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Hitty's adventures in a way reminded me of The Voyages of Doctor Dolittle, another Newbery book, but were far superior and way more entertaining.
The idea of a doll or a toy or some other inanimate object telling her adventures like this just made me so happy!I'm also entertained by the subtitle "Her First Hundred Years" -- as if her next hundred years will be published soon :)After many Newbery discussions about how disappointed we were in the quality of books and our assumed age of their readers, this is exactly what I'd been hoping for, and I can imagine lots of young people being engrossed in hearing Hitty's story.
But this all having been said (and this is the main reason why Hitty, Her First Hundered Years is a high two star ranking and not a low three stars for me), I do have to personally admit that especially the first time I read the novel (in 1980 and as a teenager who still had a quite heavy German accent at that time and was also being relentlessly bullied by both my fellow students and even by some of my teachers, one of whom actually often accused me of being too lazy to try to get rid of my so-called horrible German accent), the manner in which Rachel Field (in her guise as Hitty) approaches and describes those who do not speak standard English fluently did massively and painfully hurt my sensitive to being a New Canadian feelings.
I can't believe I forgot this book!
When I first read it I loved it so much I copied the pictures on tracing paper so as to remember the story line.
If I had this, it would be the "grab during fire" type of book.
I think I can safely blame this book for my dislike of dolls now.
Hitty was so real to me, I lived her adventures with her, and her fears.
I can never forget the P engraved on the hearth, that is forever burned into my brain.
I don't want to ever forget this book again.
According to the note inside, I received this for my fifth birthday from my maternal grandparents and I read and re-read this book throughout childhood. A recent encounter with DiCamillo's The Miraculous Journey of Edward Tulane reminded me that I needed to pick this up.I had remembered the basic outline but had forgotten so many of Hitty's adventures and the families that she went through. Such a great slice of late 18th and 19th Century America.
In Hitty: her first Hundred Years we travel though the titled century with that little vagabond piece of feminine-shaped ash as she is flung over a good portion of the world.
Having a protagonist limited in conversational skills seems to have necessitated that the narrator tell the reader everything she should be thinking about the goings-on in the story.
Although there are a few weaknesses when held to today’s standards, I would say that Hitty holds up as an enjoyable story with an engaging, if a bit puffed-up, little heroine.
"Hitty, Her First Hundred Years" by Rachel Field is the memoir of a small doll who was carved out of a piece of mountain-ash wood approximately one century before she began writing her memoir.
The main character of the novel is a doll, a character more likely to appeal to younger readers, but the book is long, complicated, and somewhat dense, making it more appropriate for older readers (5th through 8th grade).
(1) This book would be good for parents or teachers to read aloud to younger children (1st through 3rd grade) in small portions.
The dialect switches from the perfect English that had been used the whole book by all of the white characters to "I is gwine to tell you one thing," and "Whiter now dan de dribben snow." I mean, it's ok to use dialect, but come on.
I understand that this book is from a different time, and that it probably wouldn't even be publishable now, but that doesn't mean I have to like it.I did see what the Newbery committee and the children of the late 20's and early 30's saw in Hitty, though.
Another one you all seem to have read and loved that I never picked up before. I expected it to be cheesy, but it was highly readable, suspenseful, and very funny. I read it almost without stopping, though the first half was superior to the second.ETA: I see that an edition with "updated text" has been released, presumably to remove racial stereotypes. I wonder how far they went? The stuff with the former slaves would be fairly easy to adjust, but what about the natives in the South Seas?
Read this as a child. I remember the title more than the book - I really liked the title.
In one sentence, this book is a somewhat slow, meandering adventure story, the protagonist of which is a wooden doll.
There are very few true adventure stories from this period with female protagonists or written ostensibly for girls, and it is interesting that this anomalous example must center around the character of a doll; girl children certainly would never get themselves into these kinds of scrapes.
I'm not going to attempt an in-depth critique of what this assumes about women or girls within this story; perhaps that is the project of a thorough essay at some point.Overall, I found the conceit of doll narrator and the adventures presented here fairly charming.
How did this get such a high average rating?
It's the 1930 Newbery winner and I struggled to get through it.
I'm scratching my head wondering why this ever won.
It would have been better as a 10 page picture book.
230+ pages of the same boring descriptions of mundane details.
not in this book.
And if they did they'd probably think it was pretty much a waste of time.
It's books like this that further the mistaken notion that all stories from this period are boring.
High time I did, too, for patience and paper are giving out." No kidding.
I read this book practically in one sitting.
It was a fast paced highly readable tale about a wooden carved doll who goes through many adventures and countries.
I came away feeling so grateful that she had managed to keep her name thanks to her embroidered chemise, and wished that all older dolls were as fortunate.
I also liked the idea of a doll being less aware when they are packed away between owners.
This is a seriously good adventurious read even if you are an adult.
It is so lovely to read something that doesn't need swear words, graphic scenes or evil badies.
Read the full review here: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...This story about a beloved doll and her adventures was surprisingly interesting.
Hitty is taken on trips, passed from girl to girl, and even lost during her first hundred years.
I do remember that, reading this as a young teenager, I was a bit overwhelmed by the length of the book and the old-fashioned writing style, so for a younger kid, it might work better as a story you read to them, bit by bit.
But don’t pass this book by simply because the main character is a doll.
Hitty and her many owners over the years are sweet, fun characters to spend time with.
These older Newbery winners are a little harder to get through because of language and out-of-date thinking, but this one follows Hitty, a wooden doll, and the adventures she has throughout her first 100 years.
These adventures include going on a whaling ship, becoming an idol for an group of island natives, working for a snake charmer in India, and living in a haystack with mice...among many others.
I could see children enjoying a story like this, and it has the sort of spirit our modern Toy Story movies have.
This an interesting enough read, as Hitty keeps having decent ventures during her these hundred years. But… this doll is kind of a brat. She whines and complains pretty consistently. After a few hundred pages I really wasn’t pulling for her. By far I thought the most likable character was Hitty's first owner (Phoebe) and I would have preferred the story stay on Phoebe's side when they parted. While it's an okay tale, by the end of the book I just didn’t care all that much.
I'm sure I read this when I was much younger, but I guess I remembered it as fusty and uninteresting. As an adult, the character of Hitty is quite enjoyable, as the author plays with giving her a human personality with a few surprises for the reader in terms of abilities, but ultimately limiting her, physically and believably, as a doll. The illustrations by Dorothy Lathrop are beautifully done.
I liked this better as a child than I do now. Maybe it was a novel idea when I first read Hitty's story, but now I routinely wonder about the "past lives" of many of the old things I enjoy. I have four nieces, but this isn't a style or subject that would interest any of them. (Regrettably, none of them have an interest in old dolls either.)
Lovely, lovely book. A favorite from my childhood that has worn exceedingly well. Hitty is a doll carved from mountain ash who has the most exciting adventures. Do not read the new bastardized revision that has nothing to do with the original. Accept no substitutes!
Wonderful. You know why I can't give up my toys? Whenever I consider it, I imagine many of them have secret life stories like this doll. Beautiful classic that I wish had been brought to my attention before I randomly found it on the shelves of my college library.
Oftentimes, I'll read in reviews of Newbery winners that it's unfair to hold books from the early 20th century to the standards we would hold them to today.
Some might call it ignorance of the time, but I might argue that it was willful ignorance.The most fascinating part of the book, was the time in which Hitty belonged to a Quaker family.
And yet, she doesn't display the same amount of respect to all human beings that the Quaker family espouses.The thing is, I didn't hate this book.
The little girls and women that Hitty belongs to along the way are all well-rounded, fascinating female characters.
Not recommended for modern children because of pretty regular racism throughout.
If you can look past the racism, and there is a lot of it, then there is some charm to this book about a doll telling her tale of the last hundred years.
There's quite a bit of adventure for a book about a doll.
Hitty is just as racist as that great-grandma you would never introduce to your friends.
Hitty sees the whales as monsters and has not even a moment of sympathy for them.
Overall, this is a book without too much to recommend it to modern audiences.
As a confirmed doll hater in my youth, I never read Hitty - until now.
Rachel Field is such a delightful writer, and Dorothy Lathrop, who did the illustrations, draws the most soulful monkeys I know, so I dove in.
And what an adventure the history of this doll proves to be!
Frontier life, a whaling ship, an Indian snake charmer, missionaries, Philadelphia Quakers, a New Orleans cotton exposition - this is a doll who got around!
Alas, the book is not something you could promote today, because Field describes Indians, African Americans and Pacific Islanders as "brown people" and worse.
I wouldn't have been interested in this book based on its description, but it's delightful. Just a sweet, wholesome, well-written book about the adventures of a wooden doll, with just enough history through her observations to be interesting without weighing the story down or boring any potential children who might want to read it.
This is the original book, not the condensed rewrite by Rosemary Wells. This award-winner was written by Rachel Field, a distant relative of mine (my maiden name is Field). It's a charming book, which I often give as a gift to young children.
A favorite from my childhood, which remains in my personal library even now. Highly recommended, along with "Paddle to the sea" by Clancy Holling!
Preoccupied with fine clothing and her dignity, Hitty goes through a variety of adventures, from being taken to a crow’s nest by a mother bird, to staying a year in a barn with mice, to being worshipped as an idol by island “savages,” to being used as in an Indian fakir’s snake-charming act, to serving as a portrait-painter’s prop, to touring as an antique at a doll show.
Any lesson learned here about human nature are clearly secondary to the charming fantasy of the sentient doll.
In answer to this question, Ms. Mead wrote this charming book, and the friend that was with her in the antique store, Dorothy Lathrop, provides fantastic illustrations.Telling the tale is Hitty, a little ash wood peg doll who, over the course of 100 years, is lost, found, stolen, and goes on many adventures and witness quite a few historic events.
In elementary school I had read Rachel Field's Hitty: Her First Hundred Years, which is a picture book adaption of Rachel Mead's original book.
I had loved the illustrated edition, and when I found the original book at Borders one day a good few years later, I freaked.
So clever...
a Newberry winner from back in 1930.
Told from the perspective of a doll named Hitty.
She sits down to write her memoirs of her first 100 years of life.
She had quite the life...
several owners, trips on a whaling ship, life in India, in a Quaker home, with a painter and more.
Toward the end, (last 30 pages or so) I was ready for it to end...
it seemed to go a little slow or I was ready to be done.
But such a clever idea and really quite a fun story.
Also, shows how different life was back then.
