https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67.The_Known_World
but this book doesn't tell you how to read it so much as it presents itself to the reader, like a fat man in a speedo lolling around on an undersized towel saying, "look at me ladies, you like it??
and mister jones was a real sweetheart when he came for the new yorker festival and i waited in line to get a book signed for a friend and i really wanted to like it because it seems like a nice fat sprawling sweeping story the way i like, but i just got lost in the names and the timeline and my confusion turned into apathy.
After reading The Known World, however, you'd be forgiven if you thought you could take a tour of it's plantations and slave cemetaries on your vacation to colonial Williamsburg.
Who would I have been?Who am I now?In matters of race, there is always that fool's point, usually made by a white person (though not always) that asks,"why aren't you over it, already?
The way I feel when I read books like The Known World is my answer.
I can't let it go.This fictional world was very real not all that long ago.
The world I know doesn't exist without it.Highly highly recommended.
He is not as good as Pynchon or DFW is manipulating time and space in a narrative that was 100 or 150 pages too long and felt it, and he is not Alice Walker or Toni Morrison who brought us the most amazing, poignant, and powerful images of slavery and its residual impacts generations later that I have ever read.
Well, maybe it's you, too, a bit.I really thought when we got together that we would have a brief but mutually satisfying relationship.
I'd read you, you'd provide enlightenment or emotional catharsis or entertainment, maybe even all three.
Maybe it was the masturbation scene right at the start.
Maybe I just didn't give you enough pages.
But every time I picked you up my thoughts turned to the three other books on my bedside table that I'd rather be reading.
Focus on all those other, good reviews and maybe we'll meet again someday when the stars all align just right.
Where lesser writers might lean too hard on the sensational aspect (or rely on it to bolster an otherwise weak narrative), Jones works it into a compelling and powerful story.What makes it so powerful is a mix of fascinating characters who are woven into a series of overlapping plotlines.
Again it's all part of the tapestry and the mix, and I also think that the level of narrative awareness (which never disengages long enough to derail anything) adds another layer to the very idea of history--making the whole historical and contemporary both.And for those of you who can do without all of the above writerly blather (a thousand pardons), you'll find in this book characters who are engaging, ignorant, cruel, earnest, sympathetic, tragic, hopeful, flawed--in short, complicated.
Jones (born 1951) wrote this historical epic novel, The Known World based on the not well known fact that there were some black slaveholders (black people owning black slaves) in the state of Virginia during the time in the US when owning slave is legal.
This 388-page novel left me with a heavy chest each time I closed the book.
That scene is just one of the many moving scenes about those slaves in that time of the history in Virginia when black people were traded like they were not human but properties.I can make this review very long.
There is probably an important and interesting story in here somewhere (for example, if it were actually about the widow of a black slave owner trying to run a plantation after her husband's death, as claimed on the book jacket).
However, any plot that might exist was buried so deep beneath the convoluted chronology and extraneous characters and details that I decided I didn't care to keep digging for it, and quit on page 198.
The author seemed determined to insert every existing anecdote about slavery into one novel.
This might have worked better as a compilation of essays or short stories.
But they're just the start - the book is really a series of stories & vignettes about the families, friends, neighbors & community surrounding Henry & Caldonia.
Toward the end of the book there's a very powerful scene where a character, who isn't a particularly "good" character, says there should be a lantern or light of truth in the world, an actual place where people can stand & tell the truth without fear of retribution, where one might be able to right a wrong.
I enjoy those kind of thing, especially The Secret Lives of Bees, but with this one, it felt like the book had no point.
Am I really reading/understanding this book?" and kept on referring to the back cover of the book.
I HATE leaving a book unread, so I kept on forcing myself to read thru the whole book.
The author kept on jumping around the timeline too much - and honestly - I would describe this book as a glimpse of the lives of slaves in the south, but with a blah storyline.
Anyone out there who has read this book?
Despite some luminous moments where the characters come alive in a special way, this novel about the lives of slaves in a fictional community in Virginia of the 1830s felt too hermetic and sealed off for me to enjoy it as thoroughly as others might.The special hook that the story holds is its rendering of freed blacks who became slave owners themselves.
When the words of the plantation master and deeds of the escaped overseer have faded into ineffectual memory, we readers are left with both the sense that an institution has gone horribly wrong and that the people within it can be honorably right; even if the results remain unapparent, the promise of future change remains, along with the threat of complacency and neglect.Jones didn't attempt to detail the national debate over slavery that was current at that time.
when you enslave others, you've been in a cage already. before you avenge someone, dig two graveshappened to meet this book(in a low price) which i'd longed for. maybe there's really a Book God and i'm blessed
A knockout! Doesn't he have a new book coming out in the New Year? Soon I hope. He's a wonderful writer. Why hasn't Oprah made this into a film? What's she waiting for?
i think most of my issues are because of the style/structure of the novel: * the third-person, omniscient narrator - this was distracting from very early on in the read.
i felt like jones did a crap-ton of research for this book.
i felt like it could lose 50-100 pages and be a tighter, better story.in case you think maybe i am a lazy reader - i'm not, i swear!
maybe, for some people, detachment is the only way through such a horrible time in history.jones has collected some serious critical acclaim and recognition over his career.
(it was just okay for me.) people should read this book.
“If I had wanted to tell the whole story of slavery, Americans couldn’t have taken that,” Jones told an interviewer.
NPR says,Jones collected two shelves of books about slavery, but never got around to reading them.
"I decided the people I'd created were real enough and I had just accumulated enough information about what the world was like in the South before 1865 to allow me to lie and get away with it," he says.Look, I don't mean to say Jones isn't telling the truth.
I don't know if he is, and neither does he; neither of us read those two shelves of books about slavery.
What a brilliant read! It wasn't a particularly easy book. There are A LOT of characters and there are many threads to the story. It all weaves together in very interesting and unpredictable ways. In the end it was well worth the effort.This is one of those books where every aspect of the writing clicked for me. I loved it. I made me reexamine what makes me who I am as a person and as an American. I think this book changed me a little for the better.
I know there is something bizzare about me because I didn't like this book.
I know it has a lot of good reviews on here, so people should still give it a chance.
I made it halfway through hoping with each chapter that I would become interested in the story.
I think my major problem was the way the author laid the stories out.
Half the time I didn't know if things were happening in the present or past.
It was just too much work and I began to feel dread every time I looked at the book.
I don’t have to like the characters when I read a story but as the author is their creator I like to sense that at least s/he does.
So many acclaimed modern authors seem preoccupied with power and domination rather than love.
Isn’t the former like spiritual slavery, whereas latter akin to freedom in the fullest sense of the word?
The honesty in the story was in their discovery that the slavery system itself made human decency more difficult than they ever thought it would be.
The narration was told in a sweeping way that I'm sure was intended to sound like an oral history.
I was willing to ignore my annoyance at not being able to gauge exactly where I was in the timeline.
My problem was managing the timeline with all of the characters.
Toward the end of the book, I could spot the passing of 20 years without rereading.
And once you found a character you liked you had till the end of the paragraph before a whole new character and plot point were introduced.I did like the book.
This was the final assigned reading for my Introduction to Fiction class and it was SO GOOD. The omniscient third-person narrator takes some adjustment, but once you get into the voice, the book is grand. So many incredible characters populate Jones’ fictitious Virginia county and the discussion I’ve had on this book in class has been incredible. When considering the “Great American Novel,” The Known World should absolutely be part of that discussion. — Chris Arnonefrom The Best Books We Read In December: http://bookriot.com/2015/12/23/riot-r...
Very close to 4, but as good as it is, there was a bit lacking in it for me, to give it with a clean conscious 4 stars, regardless how acclaimed it is. More in my video review.
This tells the tale of black slave owners in the pre-Civil War south. It is an ensemble cast of characters, beautifully drawn in rich language and told with respectful remembrance. The tale jumps back and forth in time, so we know ahead the fate of some, but not all the main characters. The endings, as there are many for the diverse characters tend towards the awful, but not all fit that description.
One of the characters early on says, as strange as a world that makes him slave to a white man, "God had indeed set it twirling and twisting every which way when he put black people owning their own kind." Not much I can say that hasn't been said by many other reviewers, and probably the Pulitzer Prize committee, but this is a clear-eyed book about slavery in the 1850s about the moral bankruptcy that allowed it to happen and that it engendered.
Even though the setting is slavery, the novel is also about the things that divide us and unite us, constrained by artficiality - slavery - or not.
This is a book I wouldn't have gotten past page 50 of had I not been reading it for a book club.
As such, I found the book to be much more of a slog than I would have expected with such a fascinating premise.
This is one of those books where I want to take the author--who is clearly talented--aside and remind him that the novel is primarily a storytelling medium, and that if you're not telling a story, you're breaking your basic contract with the reader.
Beautiful, interesting, and haunting.
So if you ever want to read about a fictional town in Virginia taking place after the Civil War with more characters you can shake a fist at, this is your book.
If you want a streamlined story with characters that are not flat, and a plot that is not all over the place, this is not the book for you.I don't know what else to really say besides this book has so many characters it is pretty hard to sit down and point at one and say that's the main protagonist.
Though everyone in the country saw Minerva the wedding present as their property, the Skiffingtons did not feel they owned her, not in the way whites and few blacks owned slaves” (this was written about a young girl taken by her parents that they came to own)“Henry, the law will protect you as a master to your slave, and it will not flinch when it protects you.
But the law expects you to know what is master and what is slave.
Jones' Bold Vision of "The Known World"This story would have been exciting enough based only on the fact that Edward P.
Jones so boldly took the antebellum novel to a place it has never gone before; namely, to black slave-owner Henry Townsend's plantation in Manchester, Virginia.
There, the "Known World" is wholly different from what one might expect.
But this seemingly obviously absurd anomaly of U.S. history, wherein black masters owned black slaves, doesn’t stop with that rarely discussed fact.
by Author-Poet Aberjhani author of "Encyclopedia of the Harlem Renaissance" (Facts on File Library of American History) and "The Wisdom Of W.E.B. Du Bois" (Wisdom Library)
I felt that this book was important to read because it deals with a piece of American history that, like Europe's Holocaust, can never be comprehended, but should never be forgotten, either.
The story is told from the less common third person omniscient point of view, which made it read more like a history book than a novel in some parts.
He said it was hard to envision a member of a group that had such a strong history of oppression actually joining with the oppressors.
He was further fascinated to discover that some members of his race had owned slaves and helped to oppress other Blacks in the South.
This was a great book, very well written and an interesting read.
Tackling the complex morale issues surrounding slavery from a new perspective, this book delves into the territory of black owners of slaves.
Without preaching, the author successfully navigates barbaric treatments and offers a view into the mental justifications and rationalizations.
Characters of great strength, courage and resilience are interspersed on both sides of the issue, as are truly terrible individuals.The author continuously introduces new, inter-related characters which means he constantly has to remind us of who someone is.
The author jumps around from past, present and future glimpses to facilitate quick character development.
