https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141420.The_Need_for_Roots
There is no better introduction to Simone Weil's work then T.S. Eliot's preface to the book.
I highly recommend reading that preface before embarking on reading through Weil.
In particular, I found this point by Eliot especially useful, "I cannot conceive of anybody's agreeing with all of her (Simone Weil) views, or of not disagreeing violently with some of them.
But agreement and rejection are secondary: what matters is to make contact with a great soul." Indeed, Weil holds a number of odd and sometimes disturbing and wrongheaded views, but more frequently she is insightful in exploring the modern condition through the lenses of rootedness and uprootedness.
With this reading of a fourth book by/on Weil, I'm beginning to understand that her astounding and mystical insights into man and God are not sullied by the almost absurd naivety of her "solutions" to the problems that exist which, when implemented or taken seriously, end ironically in the hellish nightmare of an inhuman bureaucracy, the kind of which we see today sprouting up all over the West. Weil is to be looked at for inner understanding and not for temporal advice.
Hence, the French Revolution failed because it tried to establish a secular form of society, with rights based in the finite human realm and thus unsupported.- Punishment is "a vital need of the human soul;" punishment should be motivated by respect for the human being who has transgressed.- Risk is another "vital need." It provides an essential stimulant for action.
She wrote this in 1943 in London as part of the Free French government, and I wonder how much she would have known about the genocide taking place in the Nazis' concentration camps, which, as Hannah Arendt writes in "The Origins of Totalitarianism" (a good tandem read with this book, as is Ortega y Gasset's "Revolt of the Masses"), was something new in human history.Her denunciation of the Hebrew part within the Christian tradition is also confusing, disturbing.
This is one of the most rational and profound books I've ever read. Weil was a true mystic, whose intense writing is surprising and clear. She begins by describing the needs of the soul, argues that modern society does not fully meet all these needs, and then ends by describing a spirituality which might heal the breach. I will certainly read this again, hopefully next time in French. It is too full of powerful ideas and moving images of truth to forget.
I'm so excited to have found an on-line copy of this!
Filozoafă.Militantă.Profesoară.Scriitoare.Muncitoare.Jurnalistă.Vizionară.Revoluționară.Anarhistă.Mistică.Evreică.Catolică.Simone Weil.
Guynemer and Mermoz have become part of the public consciousness, thanks to the social prestige of aviation; the sometimes incredible heroism displayed by miners or fishermen barely awakes an echo among miners or fishermen themselves.And later, on the intellectual life of the full-time labourer:To be free and sovereign, as a thinking being, for one hour or two, and a slave for the rest of the day, is such an agonizing spiritual quartering that it is almost impossible not to renounce, so as to escape it, the highest forms of thought.Weil identifies as Christian and religion is central to her vision of a reconstructed Europe.
Siendo la única mujer, joven y de salud frágil, su influencia en la comisión es menor a la que su posteridad demostraría ameritar.Sabiendo que cada hora cuenta, aboca la mayor parte de su tiempo a escribir en privado, contribuyendo con lo que sería su último gran testimonio: una reflexión moral sobre los fundamentos (las raíces) de la Patria, y la contradicción profunda que se deriva en el estado moderno.El malestar de la civilizaciónEl problema sitúa un momento clave en 1789, cuando luego de la revolución francesa, se establece por vez primera la declaración de los derechos humanos del hombre.
I love this book. I am going to go over this book again in detail to make sure I understand every single one of her arguments. I never reflected on the Roman/Greek difference, and what the end of the Greek civilization meant for the idolatry that Rome engaged in. Read this book if you're into decolonization, mixed race theory, spirituality, revolution, etc. Especially if you dislike science like me.Update June 7th: Re-reading this book I forgot how important the word "uprootedness" is. I think Weil does more than anyone to introduce this concept. Really love her work.
simone weil died for a great cause! she found her way out of lifes follies. her clever brother she outclassed in the end. and the seriousness of existentialism is colourfull if compared to her blackness. hers was the adventure of going to extremes. and why shrug our shoulders about it? she's not comfi as comfort is a goal for the lazy. give me the roots simone, i'm your man.
Ended up skipping most of the Book One, going on about obligations, and the large section in the middle of Book Two about France and its history up to WWII. What was really worthwhile was the vision she had of the society towards which she saw it was preferable to work, once France and the Continent emerged from the War. Relevant even now.Yes, yes.
Det stör mig att hon inte klassar krig som rotlöshet, för mig är det obegripligt hur hon får ihop tanken med väntan på Gud och krigsföring.
Hon går onekligen nationalismens ärende och skriver under på idén att Frankrike måste finnas.
Däremot gör hon tydligt för sig att Frankrike inte kan finnas som kolonialmakt, vilket såklart är och var en radikal tanke.
I vilket fall gör Weil ett stort arbete för alla som har en politisk eller religiös idé om jämlik värdighet i det att hon på allvar frågar sig hur man kan få bukt på meningslöshet och håglöshet hos människor i olika delar av samhället.
And, since it was written in the early part of 1943, the work is especially interesting for having been composed in the middle of World War II.The need for roots arises when we are uprooted during a military invasion, through monetary greed, or through the social divisions brought about by education ("[t]he Renaissance everywhere brought about a break between people of culture and the mass of the population" (43)).
Hence, only once the people of France learn to see greatness in work done without any thought of compensation will they be able to re-grow the roots they have lost: "It is not difficult to define the place that physical labour should occupy in a well-ordered social life.
In T.S. Eliot's highly amusing introduction, he speaks of Weil as if she is more like weather than a person: unpredictable, arbitrary, something at once to be on awe of and condescend to.
It read like a satire of how accomplished men tend to feel of young, opinionated women, and I was prepared to completely fall in love with Weil.And she is incredibly interesting, her distinguishing feature being above all else the strength of her convictions.
Weil's focus is on constructing a complete, coherent plan for the post-war restoration of France.
Her flaws ride on the strength of her convictions to sustain a consistent vision.
Weil has some amazing things to say.
This book can also be a bit much for someone not interested in France of the '30s and '40s since so much of this work is dedicated to figuring out how Frenchmen and the government should reestablish after the debacle of the Nazi invasion and French capitulation of 1940.
I think for modern Americans finding a book by someone who has delved into her work to find her universal themes would be great.
If you are willing to go through the weeds in this book, it can be amazing.

hm, this one was less great than An Anthology, so i'd suggest that one instead, as this one's more specifically about French politics in the early 1940s, but she still dispenses universal truths in a way that no other author can really get close to.
"La compassione per la fragilità è sempre legata all'amore per la vera bellezza, perché sentiamo intensamente che alle cose veramente belle dovrebbe essere assicurata un'esistenza eterna e che così non è." (p. 149)
Un testamento utopico, austero e umanista.
Weil is a fascinating person. I don't know if I'd recommend this book to a general audience but I appreciated reading it. She is a keen thinker....and also someone who lived her beliefs with passion while neglecting her basic physical well-being. I'd recommend this book for those who enjoy reading about the lives and thinking of contemplatives.
I really wanted to like this book – the title seemed promising and relevant to current interests of mine, I had read another book by Simone Weil (Waiting on God) last winter that I liked a lot, and of course there were those glowing words from T.S. Eliot’s preface to the book: “This is one of those books which ought to be studied by the young before their leisure has been lost and their capacity for thought destroyed…”Needless to say, my preceding hopes flopped.
However, if your mindset is more of the opposite (or if you are really into French history or whatever), then I would highly recommend this book to you; Simone Weil’s mind is certainly a great one, and her thoughts, further thought-provoking.
all the long empiricisms (france's vicissitudes, the fate of the resistance, de gaulle) sometimes spawn thought, sometimes not. the not was not for me
(Apparently Charles de Gaulle didn't finish reading it.)I think the real drawback of this book for a modern reader is that it is heavily focused on the context of its time--Weil wrote it in expectation of French liberation after WWII.
Although it is certainly an interesting "national project," Weil drags on a lot about particular aspects of French history of the early 20th century, which unfortunately didn't keep my interest very much.
I'm no big fan of public choice theory, but I think that in practice the kind of state Weil proposes would be a nightmare of rent-seeking.
Weil presents a beautifully articulated treatise that combines a discussion of history, religion, current (1940s) culture/war with a philosophy of reality and value.
While I have read that some suggest her ideas exhibit a kind of naïveté or idealism that is perhaps a product of her youth and life circumstance, I'm not sure that it's a fair assessment, particularly since current connotations of these terms often lead people to write off the ideas of such "naïve" voices.
Among many other ideas, reading this made me wish that high school teachers had sabbaticals so that I had the time to explore Weil's philosophy and her clear relation to other theories (Plato, Machiavelli, Marx, etc.) and contemporary consequences.
Worth reading, but perhaps not the best introduction to Simone.
Some parts are clear, beautiful genius, some parts are hilarious (she adores the Greeks and everything they've ever done and abhors the Romans and everything they've ever done--and she can't move past it even when it's not really relevant to her argument), and some parts are really confusing if you don't know much about French politics and local cultures.It is a very interesting glimpse into a philosopher's view of the world in the World War era.
The other sections were more of a mixed bag of beautiful, hilarious, and confusing.
Supposedly a blueprint for reconstructing France after WWII. In fact, an absolutely naive program, with lots of quasi-philosophical, cultural, and psychological musing with little or no basis in anything other than the author's own presuppositions and her private notions about what might constitute rational thinking. And mixed through all of this is some really thoughtful, fascinating, enlightening insight about all the topics above, and even Hitler, but especially God. A very strange book, worth the read, heavily underlined, and yet, mostly wrong about most stuff.
This book is challenging and asks all the right questions about how to create a fair and decent society. While some of her thoughts will seem too tied to their historical context, in fact her ideas are entirely relevant today. We need above all else to understand - as she asks - what is the right food for the soul.
Amazing insights-- and often frightening suggestions.
Mentioned in The Princessa: Machiavelli for Women by Harriet Rubin.
did not enjoy this as much as Gravity and Grace. a bit difficult to follow in places.
