https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/569346.Full_Moon_o_Sagashite_Vol_1
This is one of those mangas that when you read them they are great and you can't wait to read the next one, and you finish all the volumes and love it all the way through. Then you go back a read it again, the art is mediocre, the story is full of cliches, and everything is just very sparkly and covered in glitter. Recommended for girls under 14.
This book will always have a special place in my heart because it was my very first aaaand favorit manga ever. (Right after Sailor Moon of course)I really like all of Arina Tanemuras Artwork.She's so talented. !!
Mitsuki has been diagnosed with throat cancer.
To the shock, Mitsuki can some how manage to see these two death angels.
Along the way, these two angels decide to help Mitsuki’s journey to become a pop sensation, but not everyone is willing to aid Mitsuki.The theme that is relevant in this manga, is that every individual should treasure their life, any minute the gift that is given can be taken away.
Also, it is evident in everyday life, as people who are diagnosed with cancers and other maligned diseases, their lives are disturbed from their everyday life.This is my favorite book of all times.
Mitsuki is a 12 year old who dreams of becoming a singer in hopes of finding her friend.Mitsuki is sick and only has a year to live, but with the help of two harbingers of death, she is able to go after her dream of being a singer.I found this manga in my library and thought it sounded it good.
Very good.
Very good.
It has a nice story and likeable characters.
I admit, it is a bit sad, but I won't explain why.
You'll just have to read for yourself.
I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the volumes of this manga series.
Große Liebe <3 ich verbinde so viele gute Erinnerungen mit dieser Reihe und muss sie einfach nochmal durchlesen
This book is about a 12 year old girl who really wants to be a singer, but her grandmother is against it.
However, Mitsuki decides that she is going to enter anyway.
But, unfortunately, she has to be 16 years old to enter and she decides to take a pill to make her grow.
I don't believe that I would have to do anything to promote this book because manga is so popular that it sells on its own.
I would only recommend this for casual reading purposes because I don't see how a deep life lesson could be learned from this book.This rating is totally based on opinion, I don't know what makes good Manga and what makes bad.1Q5PG
The surface story here is pretty simple and standard: Mitsuki uses magic to help her become a pop idol.
It isn't exactly cheating: the magic makes her older (16) and healthy, but doesn't affect her actual singing ability.
Healthy because, in her normal, 12 year old body, Mitsuki is dying of throat cancer.
Arina Tanemura ignores more than a few opportunities to go for cheap tear-jerkers, and I appreciate that.
I think I'll really enjoy this series, even though I'm sure that the last book will leave me in floods of tears no matter what happens.
This manga series is by far one of my absolute favorite. It shows that even though bad things happen in life, you still have friends that are there for you, and that good things are still there even though you think they are not. It is a wonderful, bittersweet story of a young girl's adventures just before she dies. Every book is filled with fun, romance, and a little bit of sadness.
There are some glaring flaws and things that irk me.
However, in the middle to the last third of the manga there is some very interesting plot points made and characterization done.CHARACTERS:To begin with, ugh Mizuki's selfless attitude was so irritating.
She basically has no flaws and was only semi-active--a lot of things were done for her.
The ill and disabled are people too with flaws and feelings.
However, the characterization of the other characters--especially the shinigamis--are much more in depth and interesting.
PLOT:The plot starts out generic, but once you find that Eichi is dead it becomes far more interesting.
However, that fact shouldn't give her a free pass to trample on her friends and family, abuse the goodwill of Takuto and Meroko (the underworld reapers who magically grant her wish to become a teenage idol singer, even though she's only 12) and basically have most of her dreams come true without really struggling very much for them or somehow earning that privilege due to a good deed earlier on in her life.
And that's just what I gleamed from the first volume.I figure that there are other, far more outstanding sick children in the world with better hearts and personalities who deserve to their dying wishes granted.
Idealistic and innocent, signature of its author and art style, Full Moon o Sagashite is lovable and beautiful.
One of the most memorable manga I have read.
This series' cup runeth over with love from Arina Tanemura, which isn't surprising for any of her works.
This is my favorite series from her, one that I read again and again.
This was my first "real" manga (having an actual plotline and not being a rip off of Sailor Moon,) so it also has great potential for an introduction manga.
Artwork is gorgeous and sets the tone for the series; I even bought the art book for this.
A definite must-read for shoujo fans.
Well, I just finished the first volume of this wonderful series! Tanemura- sensei hasn't let me down not once in her work. I suggest that if didn't enjoy this volume that much, continue reading at least until volume three. Trust me, you won't regret it.
I've read this manga countless times in the past, but since it's been a while since I reread it I decided to marathon all 7 volumes today. I absolutely love this manga, but it has such a special place in my heart that I don't think I can give an unbiased review of it.
Suatu hari ketika anak perempuan ini berusaha kabur untuk mengikuti audisi, dia bertemu dengan dua shinigami yang akan mencabut nyawanya.
Lalu entah bagaimana, salah satu shinigami memutuskan untuk membantu anak perempuan ini.Gambarnya bagus, tapi terlalu rame dan terlalu bling-bling sampai jadi pusing ngeliatnya.
Jadi,,, pasangan si cewek adalah shinigami yang dulu mau nyabut nyawanya!
(Nb: shinigami dalam cerita ini dulunya manusia yang bunuh diri)Dari awal udah ketebak sih siapa yang jadi pasangan si cewek, tapi,,, caranya itu lho-->shinigami cowok itu hidup lagi karena dulunya dia ga bener-bener mati, hanya dalam keadaan koma.
It's cute and fun, and actually deals with the serious topic of suicide and retribution.
Maybe the story is a bit young for me, but I recommended to read at least once.About a 12 year old girl (Mitsuki) with a benign tumor on her vocal chords.
The shinigami are all human souls who'd commit suicide when they were humans, and now cursed to work sending souls to the afterlife.Mitsuki's charm appeal to the shinigami who not only protect her but transform her into a 16 year old girl (sans disease).
This series is about the moon (you can see my confusion) -- but it is NOT about rabbits.
Full Moon O Sagashite, is a great book cuz its about this 12 year old girl named Mitsuki who wants to sing.
Mitsuki heard that there was a singing audition and if you won, you become famous.
But her grandmother wouldnt let her cuz she didnt want to lose anyone ever again.
So he made her look 16(cuz you had to be 16 or older to audition) and his partner Meoroko wasn't so happy.
Finally Mitsuki made it to her audition, but when she had to, one of the judges told her to speak up a lil louder, she did, and she o-mazingly awesome.
So I re-read this or maybe finished it (all 7) for the first time.
I don't think I read all the way to the end before and OMG the cuteness.
I mean, yes it was a little angsty and a little overall depressing with the constantly looming death, etc.
I pretty much love everything Tanemura, the art and story is always wonderful but she has a way with characters and humor even when working with potentially difficult subjects.
Ending reminded me a little of ending of Sakura Hime and the thing with Eichi punched me in the feelings a little but whatever.
I tried. I really tried to give Arina Tanemura a chance. I mean, her artwork is so beautiful! But this series! I just really disliked it! And that surprised me, I thought I'd like it! I think I'm too jaded from reading Godchild, I expect someone to get killed every two pages or something. I don't know. I can't pin down exactly why I hated this book. Certainly the artwork was gorgeous, I guess I really felt the story was lacking something. And I didn't really like the characters either.
A bit heavy and busy promise, but beautiful art
I remember going to the library and picking this up because it looked stunning (I was like 12) and I was intrigued with the whole idea of reading from right to left so I grabbed as many pretty looking mangas as I could.
Perhaps not for those who get aggravated with repeated themes, as Mitsuki becoming a pop idol features heavily throughout the entire series but if you'd like a light read with sprinkles of humour here and there and some great artwork I suggest you pick this up.
Since Mitsuki wants to be a singer more than anything, she refuses to seek treatment, and resigns herself to her final year, which she intends to fill with song.By pure luck, she meets two Shinigami, one of which promises to help her achieve her dream if she agrees to come quietly when her time to die arrives.
She does, and the Shinigami-in-training, Takuto, gives her the power to change into a healthy 16 year old so that she can enter a singing competition.
Takuto is clearly falling for Mitsuki, who seems totally oblivious and more interested in maintaining their friendship.I'm really looking forward to following this series!
A 12 years old girl call mitsuki Kouyama who dreams to be come a singer but she have sarcoma that she have to take the surgery, but after the surgery will ruin her vocal cords.
So the 2 shinigami help her transform into 16 years old girl to go to the audition with a healthy body to sing.After reading this book the author is trying to tell that in this world nothing can be perfect just like Mitsuki she have singing Talent but she doesn't have a healthy body to help her achieve her dreams.
I've been hearing a lot of great stuff from this series but after reading the first volume, I don't really see what all the hype is about.
Arina Tanemura's art is beautiful as always but somehow I just feel like I've read this before.
Maybe I'm just bored of Tanemura's art style.
But I swear I've seen this plot before.
Typical shojo plot.
I think I'm just looking for something different.But this book is great for casual reading.
If you're a typical teen girl looking for some cute romantic fantasy manga, this is the one for you.
This book was the first manga book I'd ever read in my life, and it was fantastic!
The characters (Mitsuki, Meroko and Takuto) are some of the most lovable characters I've ever gotten to know to this day.
The story was sweet but still kept the reader wanting more!
I would seriously recommend this book, this SERIES, this AUTHOR EVEN, to anyone (into manga or not) who likes dramadies (comedies and dramas) or just to anyone who wants to get into manga.
Apart from the character traits and the story lines, one of my favourite part of the series HAS to be the character DESIGNS!
It's about a girl who wants to become a singer because she loves to sing, and because she promised her friend/love Eichi she would get closer to her dreams.
I don't want to spoil anything!!
Arina Tanemura's drawing style is so detailed and pretty.
(For those of you who are trying to draw manga for the first time I would really suggest you base your style of someone else.
[If there is such a thing] I tried doing that when I first ed drawing manga and became flustered when I didn't get it right.) That was random, sorry.
The story takes place in the world of unrequited 12 year-old-girl love.
Add to her life a sarcoma, a mean grandma, a pair of harbinger of death shinigami friends, a desire to reconnect with a boyfriend she has not heard from in two years (maybe because he was 10 when he moved away to America) and we have the foundation of a seven volume series.
Let me know how it ends.....The worst part was the boring inclusion of sidebars of superfluous little facts related to the creation of the book that, in fact, added nothing positive to the read and took away from the flow of the story.
Cute and nearly selfless 12-year-old Mitsuki Koyama dreams of being the singer she promised her true love before he moved to America.
But she also has a type of throat cancer that is correctable via surgery...if she doesn't mind never being able to speak or sing again.
Without it, Mitsuki only has a year to live.When Mitsuki refuses the surgery, she is visited by two shingami (death spirits) who are "persuaded" to help her audition and pursue her dream of being a famous singer.I keep hoping for another Fruits Basket, but they all pale in comparison.
This book was brilliant and I'm so chuffed about reading the next one!
Arina Tanemura really did an awesome job on this manga!
When I read the blurb (the enticer usually on the back cover) I wasnt so sure because I'm not into stories about love, I USUALLY prefer books full ofg action and excitment, swords and people getting impaled!
BUT in the case of Full Moon o sagashite I was pulled right into the story and thoroughly enjoyed!
(Though I still enjoy a good sword fight on a vampirate ship!) The story and fabulous art have won themselves a 5/5 from me!
This series has everything!
Don't be fooled by the cutesy looking covers or characters--this keeps dark FAST, but not in a hopelessly depressing way.
And it's a surprisingly deep story.
Not only is Arina Tanemura's art GORGEOUS but her story telling skills are unparalleled in the shojou genre.
There's lots of back stories that all intertwine beautifully into the main story.
I first read this when it came out, and I've read the whole series several times since.
Each time I discover something new.
This could be Arina-sensei's best work.
Absolutely loved this one. The love Mitsuki feels for Eichi is sad, even heartbreaking, at times. Also, Takuto's understanding of the situation makes one feel almost as though he is the Eichi that Mitsuki is pining over (though I doubt it will turn out that he is!). I may write a longer review later. I only own V1 and V2 of this series, so I may need to find scanslations online somewhere, in order to complete my reading of the series.
