https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1327499.Queen_Jezebel
The last in the Catherine de Medici trilogy, it discusses the last year's of her life.
The first third to half is a study of the wholesale murder of the Huguenots on St. Bartholomew's Eve. Then it flows into the perverse reign of Henri III.
Catherine is a constant controlling presence, pressuring him into action.
The last third of the book covers The War of the Henris-the battle between Henri of Navarre, Henri III, and Henri of Guise for France's thrown, and for two, their lives.
At this point Catherine no longer has a say in her son's actions.
I always think that read about history is fascinating!
It always makes me wonder, how is possible to humans, searching for power and wealth, do whatever they want, not caring if their acts will bring suffering for people.
And more i read about St. Bartholomew's Day massacre, more i think that it was an abominable act!
Catherine de' Medici didn't want to lose her power as Queen Regent on throne, and as Philip of Spain was constantly questioning her faith, she decides to use Charles' mental disorder and bring the killing on the huguenots.
She use all her power to keep the throne, so Henry can become a King.

Queen Jezebel is the final installment of the Catherine de Medici trilogy, which focuses on the final years of her life.
The novel starts with Catherine's youngest daughters wedding.
I did enjoy the begging of this book especially finding out what happens in the later life of Catherine, and how the conflict between the Catholics and Huguenots affected the Royal family during these turbulent times.
I have really enjoyed the Medici trilogy and am looking forward to reading more of Jean Plaidy's books in the future.
This book covers the last quarter of Catherine de Medici's life, starting with the marriage of her daughter Margot to Henry of Navarre, the event which triggered the St Bartholomew's Day Massacre.
Relieved when he dies leaving only a daughter, Catherine's hopes rest with her favourite son, Henry III, but the hoped for partnership fails to materialise as Henry continually changes direction in response to continuing religious crises.Plaidy shows a Catherine by this time totally French whose sole aim in life is to maintain the power and pre-eminence of the house of Valois in France.
Alas for her, even the marriage of Margot to Navarre (the eventual successor) failed her.
I gave this final book in the series a 5 star rating because I enjoyed this book as much as the first one.
A great conclusion to the three part book series.
I will say this - I am glad Catherine de Medici wasn't my mother!
I am also glad that I wasn't her - what effort it took to be her.
The series, overall, is crowded with people, however, it never gets too confusing.
In my humble opinion, Jean Plaidy, who wrote this novel, as well as the majority of her books in the early to mid 1950's, can have her books hold right up there with today's modern historical fiction writers such as Philippa Gregory, Anne Easter Smith and others.
This is the final book in the trilogy.
As Catherine enters her later years, her plotting and scheming intensify as she is determined to hold on to the legacy of her dynasty, despite her numerous disappointments in her offspring.
Her machinations lead to the massacre of the Huguenouts and to further civil war.
Catherine is determined to get her favorite son on the throne, but when she does, she finds that even he disappoints her.
As her end comes, her son’s murderous actions lead to his downfall and the reign of the Valois.
I wanted to love this so much, I liked the first two but the end was so hurried and anti-climactic (well, so is life too I guess). Wanted a tid bit about what happened to family, who died, when, who became king, blah blah blah. None of that. Sure I can look it up but its more fun when you get to read it in the epilogue....
Fin de una trilogía muy interesante, solo decir que fue un placer.
Like Book Two in the Catherine de Medici trilogy, this final instalment features many more characters and follows events in their lives.
It’s hard to feel any warmth for someone of Catherine’s nature, but she nevertheless is the best-drawn character of the book.
Even so, there’s evidence enough to show she was no saint.My favourite character is Margot, Catherine’s daughter who married Henry of Navarre, France’s future Henry IV, founder of the Bourbon monarchy.Although I like the first in the trilogy best, while also preferring the second instalment above this third one, “Queen Jezebel” still proved to be an entertaining read.
Dit was mijn eerste boek dat ik over haar las.
Het begint op het moment dat haar tweede zoon Charles op de Franse troon zit.
Catherine's macht op hem neemt af en ze hoopt alleen maar dat ze snel haar geliefde zoon Henry kan kronen.
Ondertussen regelt ze het huwelijk tussen haar katholieke dochter Margot en Henry, de protestantse koning van Navarre.
Om Spanje en Rome te vriend te houden moet Catherine tonen dat haar loyaliteit wel degelijk bij de katholieken ligt.
Je moet je er je hoofd bijhouden.Wat dit boek mist zijn personages waarmee je gaat meeleven.
Margot, de drie Henry's, Catherine,...
3.5 starsThis is the third book in Jean Plaidy's series on Catherine de Medici.
At the start of this one, her third son, Charles is the King of France, and her daughter Margot is getting married to Henry, the King of Navarre, against her wishes.I'm not sure I liked this one as much as the first two, but it got more interesting as I got further into it.
It's also difficult with these royal families and keeping straight who everyone is (and I tend to go months or years between books in a series, so I need some kind of reminder).
However, in the end, I still enjoyed it.
This was the best book of the trilogy.
There was a lot of action and drama which the first two books (especially the first one) lacked.
The book ends with the death of Catherine de Medici (I don't consider this a spoiler - a trilogy written about one historical person will probably end with the death of that person), but that kind of leaves certain events unresolved, so I've jumped straight into Evergreen Gallant (about Henri of Navarre).
There is some overlap between the trilogy and the Navarre book, but I think it will resolve the events left in the trilogy after Catherine died.
The brilliant future that Catherine de Medici envisioned for her favorite son is about to collapse.
A pampered fop, he is unable to rule the country he fought to gain control of for so long.
He is under the control of his favorites and they are bent on destroying the country to gain what they want, power and wealth.Catherine is unable to stop her son, as her illness progresses and age catches up with her.
She does what she can to even out the power distribution in the country, but all factions seem intent on all or nothing.
I haven't even read the other two books in this trilogy, but I think this book stands alone as a good read. I thought that Plaidy really had a feel for the period and the people involved, especially Catherine herself; described so effectively she genuinely gave me the creeps....Queen Jezebel has completely changed my outlook on French history as a whole, and now I want to learn more about Catherine and her family. Written back in the 50's, I don't think this book has aged at all, and manages to remain a story as opposed to historical lecture.
Maybe I should have read the first two installments of the trilogy, but the story felt stilted and rather boring.I like historical novels when the author succeeds in bringing the characters and period alive.However, in this case, by moments, it felt that certain turns of phrase came straight out of a dry biography...Another thing I found difficult was judging how much time elapses between the different happenings and chapters.What a difference with 'Tne King's General' by Daphbe Du Maurier .... such strong characters, historically correct, such a gripping story!
I've always enjoyed reading Jean Plaidy's novels. This one was no exception. I do have to say that the history of France is less appealing to me than that of England but I did enjoy this take on Catherine d'Medici. I think if you read only this novel and not the other two in the trilogy, especially the first one, you would find her to be a very cold and terrifying woman. But by putting her whole story together she makes you not so muvh like her but you certainly do pity her.
Wonderful- the story about Catherine de Medici who was the wife of Henry 2 of France and her sons ruled after him. After Frances 2, then Charles 9th, then Henry 3rd. Henry 3rd was gay and surrounded by pretty men. He spent lots of money on clothes and parties. He was hated. The duke of Guise was the most popular opponent and was the prince of Paris. Henry 3rd had Henry of guise assassinated.I want to read more books about the french kings that followed Henry 3rd.
This read much more like a novel than a historical book, which I'm sure was the author's intent. I wasn't thrilled with the book but it did spark my interest in reading more about Catherine de Medici. What an evil, meddling person (according to this book). The interwoven and cruel history of European royals never ceases to amaze me!
I couldn't finish it. It was stilted and boring. I read the old version; perhaps the "reissue" has been updated, but as it stands I wouldn't recommend it.
http://www.girllostinabook.com/2014/0...
Great book! It's crazy what she did to keep the sons!
I have just finished the last in Jean Plaidy's trilogy on Catherine de Medici. Very insightful books and extremely well written. Enjoyed them very much
Best piece of historical romance read recent time's!!
History is a funny thing, it repeats itself no matter what. We may not have the "Royals" but we do have overpaid and useless government officials.
This is the third book of the Catherine de Medici Trilogy. This is better than the second.
I've been a long-time fan of Jean Plaidy (Victoria Holt, Philippa Carr, et al). This one was a slow starter, but once I got into it, it was fascinating.
Catherine goes from being a misunderstood woman & wronged wife to a vicious, conniving, power hungry queen. This book indeed portrays her as a Jezebel!
well written novel about a nasty piece of work. One of history's truly evil rulers. Really don't buy the attempt to make Catherine D'Medici sympathetic.
Jean Plaidy is just always a good idea. But now I want to take Modern Europe I in the spring...missing my Euro fill!
