https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143478.First_Fig_and_Other_Poems
I've been on a bit of a long-awaited poetry kick lately, but this one was just not satisfying enough in the end to leave me wanting more.
The whole experience felt a bit detached, failing to arouse more than just a teensy amount of feeling in me.
Our first time together just left me feeling so blasé.The quote below made me giggle, because I have an often infantile sense of humor (not that you noticed or anything), and am always subconsciously on the lookout for sexual innuendo in poetry about love, whether or not it was intentionally-placed.
2.5 stars. So disappointed with this collection. Other than "First Fig" which is a work of genius, I couldn't find more than 2 or 3 poems that appealed to me even slightly. Most of them were VERY long, rambling poems that seemed to be mostly about weeds and/or thistles. I am willing to concede that the poem's shortcomings exist from my end and not the poet's, but they were just indecipherable and...boring.
When I was in middle school--or junior high, as we called it then--a hated English teacher made us all miss an event that most of us wanted to be part of, in order to study Edna St. Vincent Millay, thus setting me dead against both of them for decades after.
Well....wrong.I am grateful that I finally gave Edna a chance after a friend introduced me to her poem "Recuerdo." Old lady my eye, here was a passionate soul!
In the included poem "The Poet and His Book", she writes "Read me, margin me with scrawling", and so I did.
IVOnly until this cigarette is ended,A little moment at the end of all,While on the floor the quiet ashes fall,And in the firelight to a lance extended,Bizarrely with the jazzing music blended,The broken shadow dances on the wall,I will permit my memory to recallThe vision of you, by all my dreams attended.And then adieu,--farewell!--the dream is done.Yours is a face of which I can forgetThe color and the features, every one,The words not ever, and the smiles not yet;But in your day this moment is the sunUpon a hill, after the sun has set.
First Fig drives you to live your life the way you want to.EL. 17.
Really just was not into it.
I like the 'Second April' poems more than the 'A Few Figs from Thistles' collection. The 'Second April' part is richer emotionally and lyrically more developed. This Dover edition contains all of the poems from those two originally separate collections.
"What should I be but a prophet and a liar, whose mother was a leprechaun, whose father was a friar? Tethed on a crucifix and cradled under water, what should I be but the fiend's god-daughter?"
this was the first book of poetry i ever read
