https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280853.Dead_Water
Good mystery. 83 year old Emily Pride owns an island where apparently miracles occur at a spring. However, she wants to close it down which the locals are upset about as it has become a gold mine. The crazy Miss Cost, drunken Major with a gorgeous wife, Dr Maine and the not so nice father of Wally. The murder surprised me but there are enough clues to figure out the murderer. My second Ngaio Marsh novel and I am hooked. I am also looking forward to watching the movie.
Как хорошо, когда получаешь от книги то, чего ожидаешь (без всяких неприятных сюрпризов)!
Как хорошо, когда автор не пытается прыгнуть выше своей головы, а делает именно то, что у него хорошо получается.
Очень добротный детектив с незамысловатым сюжетом.
Но это отнюдь не минус.
Потому что запутать сюжет могут многие писатели, а вот красиво его распутать-единицы.
Когда читаю Ngaio Marsh, всегда получаю удовольствие от прочитанного и никогда не жалею о потраченном времени.
Конечно же, у неё есть произведения и получше, и похуже.
И это не самое выдающееся.
Но при оценке детективов главным критерием для меня является увлекательность читаемого.
Так что только 5 баллов!!!!!!
It's been a long time since I read any of Ngaio Marsh's books and I had forgotten how good she was. Although I don't think that this is one of her best it still warrants four stars. As always her characters are really well drawn and the plot is good. The autocratic Miss Price and her dialogue with Alleyn in this story is just marvellous. I am now going to re-read another one.
Another great mystery that kept me guessing.
Wally Trehern, a mentally “simple” boy in Portcarrow, has been undergoing severe teasing from the other children because his hands are covered with awful, ugly warts in 1963’s Dead Water by Ngaio Marsh.
Running to the local spring in tears, he puts his hands in the water, but he still has the same warts.
Then, his eyes full of tears, Wally looks up and sees only what he calls The Green Lady.
His only explanation is that The Green Lady and the springs healed him.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
good plot but unfortunately not well written
Enjoyed this very much. Loved the fact that Alleyn's former teacher was one of the characters even if she was very stubborn and set in her attitudes. It showed him in another type of relationship than we sometimes see. Enjoyed also the interaction of Fox with Miss Pride, as she is a French teacher and he is perennially trying to learn that language. Liked more of the ancillary characters, too, than I sometimes do in Marsh's tales.
But I'm afraid this is not my favorite.In this one Marsh reveals her fundamental, telling ignorance of human character, with her portraits of both the epileptic boy with warts---since when is epilepsy a developmental disability?
. .plus, you know, there's always Dostoievski---and then, appallingly, the 45-year-old single woman who is apparently by definition, "one of those." It was quite an education to me, I must say, to learn that being both single and female at "that age" is a form of malignant mental illness.
Another enjoyable Ngaio Marsh! All the classic elements of a whodunnit in an interesting setting, complicated by the presence of Detective Inspector Alleyn's French teacher.
I didn't really enjoy this book. It fails on so many levels. A very stereotypical cast of characters - sexually frustrated spinsters, the retired army Major, a doctor, a clergyman and assorted poorly educated villagers.The detective is a romantic old-school English gentleman who never really comes to life in this story. Given her interest in the theatre I felt it would have worked better if Dame Marsh had written it as a play. The dialogue is hackneyed and the whole thing feels dated. Not one of the better Alleyn mysteries.

A great mystery, yet again I failed to spot the murderer, even though the clues were there in the text and I even spotted some of them but somehow I completely failed to make them add up. I love Ngaio Marsh's books, the familiar land marks are always there: a pair of lovers, a charming young girl, an eccentric spinster and of course Alleyn and Fox. Superb!
One v elderly unmarried woman who has reached state of being admirable tough old biddy; one middle-aged psycho spinster. Not bad, otherwise
Bettie's Books
A local woman, Miss Cost, becomes obsessed by the 'magic' spring, and builds up an entire fantasy about it.
This island is owned by Miss Pride, an old woman who is a friend of Superintendent Alleyn from his diplomatic days.
Miss Pride calls in Alleyn when she receives threatening letters; he advises her not to go to the island, but she insists.
When a murder occurs, of course he is drawn into it.
There is one hint about halfway through, but it isn't made clear until the very end of the book.
A beautifully crafted crime thriller in the old style, when there really were goodies and baddies and you could tell by the accent which was which.
Roderick Alleyn, Ms Marsh's iconic detective, is dragged away from his holiday with his wife, not altogether reluctantly, to solve a murder on a peninsula in Cornwall and to look after his venerable French teacher, eighty-plus year-old Miss Emily Pride.
As in all of these delightful older crime books, there are all the classic clues, pointing of course to the wrong person, and then comes the total surprise revelation of the perpetrator and (of course!) the expected denouement occurs, just at the moment when all the characters 'by accident' are drawn together in one place.Fast paced, delightfully readable and deliciously old fashioned crime drama at its best.
I enjoyed this one, even though I hardly like anyone.
I wish Ngaio marsh would leave the damn young lovers out, though.
They're always so irrelevant, and not at all likeable.How the whole thing is tied together is quite fun, the puzzle is rife with red herrings, and Miss Emily's relationship with Alleyn and Fox quite fun.
There are some wearisome tropes, and the murderer was not quite believable, though/Word of warning - there's quite an old fashion caricature of how people were learning disabilities and how old spinsters are (because obvi her vag is dried up, therefore she has no sense).
As a result, while this is quite fun, it's not quite a good read for me.
Wonderful restrained Scottish uncanniness on a remote island, complete with isolating tides, dead water and frightful storms, featuring the inimitable Roderick Alleyn (aren't we all jealous of Troy?) and his charming French friend-cum-tutor, now 83. The pitifulness of the exploitation of a mentally-challenged child who is cured of a bully-inspiring affliction--added to murder most foul and adult love triangles and the first loves of the young--add up to an ugly murder mystery with rainbows as well as tragedies. Dame Ngaio Marsh is forever one of the best!
Very interesting setting. Clever story. It only gets four stars because it's rather short and the characters are all so blighted with greed and alcoholism. I found it difficult to sympathize with any of them. Our beloved Super is brilliant, of course, and the climax is beautifully written. A terrible storm adds wonderful atmosphere to the already suspenseful and tense situation. The conclusion...well, it makes the book a must read.
One dollar very well spent! I haven't been reading too many classic mysteries lately, but when I opened this one and saw it began with a traditional cast of characters, I knew that I would enjoy it. Dead Water has a very interesting setting, a secluded island in the UK where a freshwater spring is develops a reputation for curing illnesses. It's well-realized description of an insular community changed by tourism.
Sorry to say I am on the down side of these mysteries. Already wondering what my next fixation will be. This one is more Alleyn, less other characters, which I like better than when the book is three-quarters through before he makes his appearance, no matter how engrossing the story or appealing the characters.
A very good book - interesting plot and characters. Like with most of her work, Ngaio Marsh's ability to create characters that the reader loves to hate really shines. The ending wasn't a huge shock so it fell a little flat, but it was still a good ride.
This one is particularly good, even though one of the main characters is an autistic boy who is drawn very accurately, especially for the time. It wasn't recognized as autism then. Marsh must have known someone like him.
Stará dobrá anglická detektivka. Malé městečko zalidněné postavičkami, které vytvářejí typickou atmosféru, sympatický detektiv, nezdolná stará dáma, žárlivost a láska - račte vstoupit, anglická detektivka může začít .
Young women are “girls.” Poorer people are homely. Poor people are slovenly. Bad teeth are a sign of low class, when really a sign of low income, with never a nod to economic injustice. Kiwis better lose their accents if they are going to live in England. BUT the stories are first rate.
Guessed the murderer, but this doesn't mean much. The plot wasn't very interesting, unlike a few of the characters. Generally Marsh's prose is very good. This time less so.
Faith healing. I found some of the detail disturbing.
Better than some others I read. Set in London with the intrigue being around a dilapidated theatre a playwright/producer would like to bring back to life.
When she starts receiving anonymous threats, the police become involved, but then she visits the island; attempts are made to harm her, and then a woman is murdered, in circumstances where she could have been mistaken for Miss Price.As in Death of a Fool, Marsh adopts a twee attitude to the English village, one riddled with snobbery.
(I grew up myself in a small village, and either things had changed dramatically over thirty years, or Marsh had only seen the English village from New Zealand.) Dead Water is full of unpleasant, in-bred yokels on the one hand, and nice upper class people on the other (with the exception of an alcoholic).
I think I have read this at least twice before and for some reason a lot of it stuck in my memory.
From the outset I knew who was going to do it and why but this did not stop my enjoying reading this again.This is set in a village, probably on the south coast of Cornwall, with a cast of bizarre characters.
The new owner receives threats and some attempts at harm and finally there is a murder.
As it happens Superintendent Alleyn knew the new owner and had warned her against visiting the village so when he heard about the attempts he himself goes to the village and he actually discovers the corpse.
