https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774254.Crossings

Como dije cuando comencé a releer esta historia, este fue el primer libro para "adultos" que leí sie
Set in the time period at the beginning of World War II, Liane de Villiers is traveling by ship to France, where her diplomat husband, Armand, has been transferred.
Their situation, occurring in the backdrop of a looming world war, was a fictional romance that definitely had a ring of truth to it.Synopsis: At journey's end would a new life begin?
Then the Second World War sent her on a fateful crossing, leaving her husband far behind.
Would the voyage seal her love for ever, or leave her stranded on the shores of heartbreak and despair?
Me gustó mucho esta novela, así que le di 4 estrellas porque está bien ambientada y tiene la información necesaria sobre la guerra, lo que conlleva que no se pierda interés en la historia y no se diluya lo medular de la novela que es el romance. No es cursi ni dulzona, tiene drama suficiente sin ser telecebolla. Este tipo de novela histórico románticas son las que me gusta leer. Mi reseña completa en el siguiente linkhttp://perezosa69.blogspot.cl/2017/03...
I did enjoy this book - enough happened to keep me entertained. But everyone seems to be missing the fact that the stupid woman cheated on her husband! Poor guy sacrificed himself for his country, and while he's at war she runs off with the new guy? To be fair, Nick sounded awesome, but so did her husband. And she claimed to love both men equally? Please! I don't care how lousy your life is during war time - You can't string two guys along! You're a horrible wife!
This rating is totally based on the nostalgia factor that comes with re-reading this book 20 years later. Yes, it was schmaltzy, formulaic, and I definitely did not get any smarter reading it. However, it was a delightful guilty pleasure beach read and I now understand where I got most of my adolescent misperceptions that adulthood would be a glamorous time filled with Chanel suits, champagne, caviar, jewelry, mansions and romance.
Epic and riveting. I love the old Danielle Steel historicals and this one ranks one of my all time favorites. If there were an option to give more stars I'd rate it a ten. The historical facts of WW2 alone make this a must read. Combine it with a great storyline and that combination makes for one mighty good read.
Liane is remarkable! This book exhibits strength, loyalty, and how fate works itself out. It's a captivating story with just the right amount of romance... Great from cover to cover!
No sé por qué me gustan tanto los libros sobre la guerra, ya déjenme.
I had a few issues with some aspects of the story but overall I really loved it. 4.5/5 for me. One of the better written DS books I've ever read.
I love a good WWII romance.
I prefer a well written historical fiction with an upbeat, strong female lead during that period.
This novel was set in that period and favorite Danielle Steel novel...of course if you have read one of hers, you have read them all...someone in a bookclub said that years ago and I found it to be true.
It was a vacation book, but I remember I really enjoyed it.
This is one of those novels that, even though the book may not stay with you, bits and pieces from it form a vision that stays with you forever...
Lo unico que critico fue el final. Falto unas hojas mas para cerrar todas las historias.
This book is full of people making bad decisions and wasting time. It was mildly entertaining. More drama then hot romance.
A nice light read for the summer.
its not what u expect of danielle steel... this books ending is just BORING; way tooo expected
Esta historia transcurre durante la segunda guerra mundial.
Siempre me dan aprensión y me conmueven estas historias porque narran el drama y dolor que han padecido quienes se ven envueltos en la tarea de sobrevivir y huir (en cualquier orden) de los efectos de una guerra.
Son personas que sin distinción de clases sufren y quedan con la cicatriz de ser sacados de su entorno, de perder a sus familias y vivir con la culpa de haber sobrevivido y otros no.
Son tantos aspectos a abarcar que una novela no es suficiente para detallar todo lo que sucede en situaciones como esta.
This book was outstanding. Set in the war it tackles many issues like the underground, the late joining of the USA, the hatred of some races during the war and the difficulties to be met during the war. It has a romantic story throughout but still manages to tackle some of the horrors of war. Could not set the book down.
Vidas cruzadasExcelente tremenda historia.que tiene mucha historia sobre la guerra en 1942.tantas vidas pérdidas y para que por el poder .Liane una mujer fuerte y madura para su edad con obligaciones y marido.nick atrapado en un matrimonio por obligacion.sus vidas se cruzan y cambian para siempre.el final lo encontré demasiado rápido esperaba más .disfrute mucho la historia.
(c)1982 I love how Steel wove actual history into this genre. Everything from war, love, lust, money, politics and power. I didn't do my research but I am guessing the Normandie is an actual ship and if she was it must have been real majestic and awesome to see. Another great read from Steel.
Very good readThe story was very interesting with a solid plot. It moved along and held my interest. Nice to read love stories that feel right.
This book is really good!
I did try to finish this bookBut I skip almost half of itTo be honest I don’t like the characters that muchIt was oke, but not the best from Steel
This was one of my favorite Danielle Steel books back in the day (1980s, as a high school girl). Glad I took the time to re-read it now, over 30 years later. Still a good read!
Me lo regalaron cuando tenía 13 o 14 años y lo leí por compromiso.
I loved this book. Is totally a romantic book. ❤❤❤
I loved this book. Is totally a romantic book. ❤️❤️❤️
((ALERTA SPOILERS))ese libro es espectacular!!!!acabo de terminarlo fue wowun sube y baja de emocionesodie a Hillary ame a Nick y Liane ❤me sentí mal por la muerte de Armandrompió mi corazón ese libropero lo amelo único que le falto fue un bendito Epilogo donde de casaran le devolvieran a Jhonny a Nick y todos vieran felizyo necesitaba una bodacomo sea fue muy bueno
Sí acepto que en la mayoría de casos ella fue un personaje ejemplar, siendo una gran mujer en muchas partes, pero el hecho de que pensara tan mal de la esposa de Nick para ella terminar haciendo lo mismo casi mata todo el respeto que sentí con ella.
Nuestra heroína, en este libro, me pareció demasiado hipócrita en la mayoría de los casos, y por eso nunca simpaticé con ella.
Al final decidí darle cuatro estrellas, por la historia, la manera en la que está escrito, Armand y por Hil. Le hubiera dado cinco si no hubiera sido por el romance que había de por medio, que me pareció de lo más innecesario.
First, there is Armand, her devoted older husband, and then Nick, the young owner of one of the countries biggest steel companies, who's marriage to his adulterous wife Hillary is kept togetehr only by his son.The two families meet on a crossing to France from the USA prior to the outbreak of the war and a friendship emerges between Liane and Nick whilst their partners are distracted with other things.
At the invasion of Paris by the Germans, Nick and Liane again find themselves crossing the Atlantic on the same boat without their partners, Armand remaining in France to serve his contry as a double agent, and Hillary having already returned to the USA.
Surprised at how much I loved reading this book. As the story progressed you got to know the characters really well and it was a definite page turner. Sad reading all about the casualties of war at sea and what people had gone through. Great details into the work of the Resistance in the war efforts in France. A really good read and one that kept you turning the pages as frustrating circumstances were thrown at the characters all the way through and kept you hoping for a happy ending rather then wondering what would happen. I really enjoyed this.
