https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185287.The_Star_Scroll

I love this series and this book in particular has such a huge impact on the overall story. Ugh. Love.
Review from the PFS Book Club...What I Liked: Rawn's specialty is on display in this middle book of the Dragon Prince trilogy, with her interweaving of so many different characters, all with personality quirks, motivations, and opinions.
This book could easily stand a dissection of its narrative arcs, one that could teach many lesser writers how it should be done.What I Didn't Like: Once again, you have a great plot, amazing characters, and lots of witty banter, but beyond that, the writing, the actual sentence construction type writing, is pretty bad.
There were a lot of pages in this book, but not very much actually happened.
I think about 350 pages were spent at the Rialla and I was practically begging her to please MOVE ON.
The resolution was almost exactly the same as the first book in the series, Dragon Prince, down to the use of magic, a duel, and something happening with dragons to make you all dragon happy.
You could tell that she was a better writer by this book, so it does not have the hallmarks of a debut author anymore, but unfortunately it was just boring.
Loved the book, loved the series.
The characters come alive, and add a depth to the book that is amazing.
Rawn effortlessly brings in a new generation, and you can't help but know them instantly.
Rawn goes into less detail than your average romance writer, and isn't exactly crude about it.
Yes, within this series there are examples of the negative side of human nature.
However, the books wouldn't be real without them.
Rawn masterfully shows this negative side in ALL of her characters, especially her "heroes." I applaud this author for her ability to do so.
I know people who can make very intelligent reviews.
I just "feel" or don't.
In this case, I felt a lot...especially at the end.
Sioned and Elisel...that was beautiful.On another note, I can't help but dread Pol's learning of all what happened at Feruche all those years ago.
I don't know when that will happen.
In book 3 or in Dragon Star trilogy ?The sooner, the better.Oh, and why is it that there's something about Rohan (which happened to him at Feruche in book 1) that I still find difficult to forgive ?
1st time ?
But what follows...ouch !
Melanie Rawn continues to paint a wonderful canvas of her unique world. The conflicts and challenges in the first book have given way to new challenges and conflicts arising from past actions, both recent and long ago. A new hidden threat arises from the shadows that threatens to tear apart the lives of the main characters. Again, the author brings the characters, both old and new, to life, endearing the reader to them all. If you've read the first book, there's no reason not to read on.
This one was a little slower than the first and it took me a little longer to get into it. There didn't seem to be a single main character, or even couple, that was central to this novel, but rather it felt more like a weaving of story lines that held equal importance, without which there would have been left an incomplete story. I both like and dislike that. All in all, this felt like a true 'middle' book--a mere vehicle to get to the next installment.
After reading the first book of the series I had to find my old cache of books as I knew I still had the six somewhere. Then I found it under a mountain of brick'a'brack. I am now in the process of retreading and i'm half through enjoying every page
One of my go to authors for high fantasy, great characters, settings, and political intrigue. In-depth world building and believable cast of characters. Solid fantasy.
Set in a medieval world of the author's own making, the main character is one of the most powerful men on the continent-and fears the power.
The author also tries to make the characters more real-they have strengths and weaknesses, odd, silly fears, and will do stupid things.
Another thing I like (though you may not) is that the book makes no bones about death, or war, or general barbarism which is so prevalent in the world.
The main character's worst fear, the thing that keeps him up at night is that despite all his plans for progress and peace, and learning and the like, he is a barbarian too.
(view spoiler)[This book is set 14 years after Dragon Prince, and the main plot deals with a would-be usurper to the throne who claims to be the bastard son of the late, unlamented high prince Roelstra and heir to Princemarch. Other sub-plots involving sorcery and the sons of Ianthe are also swirling around. (hide spoiler)]A mix of politics and action - I enjoyed it. It's not epic or groundbreaking, but this rather sweet (if occasionally dark and/or silly) romance-heavy fantasy is something of a
(view spoiler)[This book is set 14 years after Dragon Prince, and the main plot deals with a would-be usurper to the throne who claims to be the bastard son of the late, unlamented high prince Roelstra and heir to Princemarch.
Other sub-plots involving sorcery and the sons of Ianthe are also swirling around.
It has problems - the size of the cast meant I had to refer to the glossary at the back of the book several times to remember who was who - but it's a relatively fast read and a pleasant enough break from heavier or darker fantasy tomes.
I don't think I would go on to read the last book of the trilogy.
I do have to say that each book stands alone quite well, with a distinct climax and issue.
The writing and storytelling is still solid, though.I note that this book deals with dark themes (death, sexual assault), but what really irritated me was that Rohan kept referring to Pol's conception as (view spoiler)[Rohan raping Ianthe.
(hide spoiler)]I didn't care much for the characters, but I do have to say that the political intrigue was well thought out and the characters had distinct personalities.2/5 stars
This book was worth reading for the world building and the characters, but I had a hard time sticking with it and only read it in fits and starts. It's great to see how the characters have grown since the first book, looking forward to the next one.
Another great story! This was a good follow up to the first story. The characters became even more interesting as their individual stories were expanded. Great Epic read that will have you up all night until you find yourself at the end!
It was good but a little long. Was hard to read after awhile.
Love this deep, rich, involved series. Glad to read it again after all these years.
epub file
see review for Dragon Prince
In the first book they seemed a little shallow at first, very Good Guys Are Awesome and Bad Guys Are Pretty But Evil...
Then bad things happen to the good guys and they grow up a little.
I can definitely appreciate an author that's willing to skip over totally unnecessary chunks of time, although that means we're presented with a cast of young characters who've only undergone the development seen in book #2, so essentially the author can present them however she wants because of the decade+ lapse in between the first two books.
It's been about a decade or so since I read through these, so while I remember the large points of the story, there were some smaller points and a few twists that I didn't recall, which made the reread enjoyable.This book opens about twelve years after the close of the first novel, with young Prince Pol now about age fifteen and acting as a squire for his fostering prince.
The events in the book largely center around the summer and Rialla for the year, including a tour of Princemarch and the Desert by Rohan, Sioned, and Pol prior to the Rialla.
Though there were nowhere near as many grammatical errors to distract me this time, I still couldn't keep track of all of her characters without flipping to the family trees in the back of the book constantly.I still found many of the main characters to be stagnant, with only a few making any growth/decline as a person.
I would have liked a little less realism & a little more heroism (especially in a particular fight scene towards the end when somebody stabbed somebody else, making me think that he/she had just saved their Chosen, when in the next sentence it goes to someone else's perspective like 3 minutes before the stabbing happened).
The Star Scroll is not a bad book per say, it's just that where the first one tread softly around the edges of going into romance novel territory, this book took no such precautions.
There was a pretty long span of time for me from reading book 1 to reading book 2, so maybe that had a factor in my enjoyment of it as well.
Either way, I thought that The Star Scroll was an average book.
I didn't feel like it was a waste of my time to read it, I just didn't get all that much out of it either.
This book is full of parenting issues and pride over one's children.
Audry was REALLY starting to get on my nerves nearing the end of the book.
And Maarken and Hollis' relationship was such a struggle.
But of course, you can't have Maarken without Tobin and Chay (still adore).
I know I seem like I'm complaining, but the fact that I feel so strongly for these characters is a compliment to the author.
It was a fabulous read, if a little drawn out in places.
And the killing off of some of my most favourite characters...
I really enjoy these books.
Rawn has a talent for fully immersing the reader in her vivid world, making for an enjoyable and engaging read.
The secondary plots (High Princess Sioned's attempts to communicate with the dragons, the relationships between various characters, the investigation of the Star Scrolls, Andry's growth as a powerful Sunrunner, the secretive diarmadh'im) unfortunately took second place.
A shame because they were truly enjoyable to read, and a bit more 'screen time' would have been well received.
Nonetheless, "Star Scroll" is a great read, with engaging and well written characters (flaws and all) within a captivating setting.
Continuing my re-read of this series.
It can be hard to revisit something that you read over and over again when you were younger.
The familiarity makes it difficult to experience it again more critically; you know where the plot is going, you know what happens to the characters, you are prepared for what lies ahead.
The fact I read this series over so often means that of course I loved them at the time.
The Star Scroll continues years after the closing events of Dragon Prince, with Pol now a young prince in training.
The dragon opera continues apace, with just as many complex characters, political intrigues, magic and now sorcery as well.
Another rollicking adventure in Stronghold, this time centering on a transition era as Rohan's princedom prepares to transition to his son Pol. This book has a decent plot, though the cast of characters expands exponentially.
Some names are super similar: Sioned and Sionell, Lyell and Lleyn.
It's kind of hard to follow who is who and the map in the front of the book is pretty small to figure out kingdoms.This book seems to mostly tie up some loose ends from the first book and set the stage for the conclusion of the series.

oh these books keep growing from strength to strength, the sunrunners are a wonder in themselves but when they link to the dragons they are awesome. sioned and rohan are such a beautiful couple, wanting to lead in peace yet troubles seem to haunt their days, the back stabbing and traitors abound and now the people of the old ways are coming back and their power comes from the stars!!! cannot put these books down so perfectly woven into such a great tale!!!
Sequel to Dragon Prince, Melanie Rawn revives many of the same characters and the intense political world they inhabit. While Rohan and Sioned remain significant, the younger generation takes center stage in this novel, particularly Rohan's son Pol, whose complex heritage forms part of the tension in the plot. In addition, a new power is on the rise in this novel, a power that proves itself to be a threat to Sunrunners and to the world Rohan and Sioned have built.
