https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/887348.Puckoon
This is, in my opinion, the best and funniest book Spike Milligan ever produced, I say this from a position of having read just about everything he had published.
I have lost count of how many times I have read it.
This is the first book I have encountered where the main character has a dialogue with the author and even has a magic word to use just in case he doesn't like what is written about his legs.
"Caw said the crow, Balls said Milligan"
ماجراهای کتاب در منطقهی کوچکی به اسم «پاکون» در ایرلند اتفاق میافتد. پس از پایان جنگ داخلی، کمیتهی تعیین مرز پس از مدتها تلاش، بخش کوچکی از مرز جدید را تعیین نکردهاند. سرانجام به این نتیجه میرسند که نمایندهی هر کدام از طرفینِ جنگ، به یک مداد قرمز چنگ بیندازند و بکشند تا مرز مشخص شود. با این روش مرز جدید از میان پاکون عبور میکند و مشکلات زیادی را به وجود میآورد.به نظرم ترجمه و ویراستاری کتاب میتوانست بهتر باشد. بعضی جاها شوخیهای نویسنده بامزه بود اما به دلیل زیاد بودن شخصیتها و درهم بودن ماجراها
ماجراهای کتاب در منطقه‌ی کوچکی به اسم «پاکون» در ایرلند اتفاق می‌افتد.
پس از پایان جنگ داخلی، کمیته‌ی تعیین مرز پس از مدت‌ها تلاش، بخش کوچکی از مرز جدید را تعیین نکرده‌اند.
با این روش مرز جدید از میان پاکون عبور می‌کند و مشکلات زیادی را به وجود می‌آورد.به نظرم ترجمه و ویراستاری کتاب می‌توانست بهتر باشد.
بعضی جاها شوخی‌های نویسنده بامزه بود اما به دلیل زیاد بودن شخصیت‌ها و درهم بودن ماجراها از لحاظ زمانی و مکانی، خط اصلی داستان یک جاهایی گم می‌شد.
بعضی از شوخی‌ها و ماجراها هم وابسته به زمان و مکان است و فهمیدنش برای مخاطبی که شناختی از ایرلند آن زمان ندارد مشکل است.http://choobalef.blog.ir/1395/04/30/%...
Umm. Well. It's well-known Spike Milligan had a depressive disorder, making it impossible for him to concentrate on one thing for a long time. Hence his role in the Goons and other digressional comedies. But random doesn't lend itself to novels. You can throw in Romans, Chinamen, IRA officers and the kitchen sink, but you still have to structure the thing.Puckoon is a dated book, probably quite sexist and racist to modern eyes, and the freewheeling absurdity simply doesn't shine on the page, though there are quotable lines a-go-go. Just no novel.
If you are going to get one Spike Milligan novel, this is it. For those who don't know (or who are American), Milligan is probably one of the great comic writers in the British language. Lots of word-playing, and very funny. He is also part of the Goons along with the always fantastic Peter Sellers. They did a series of radio shows - and one can purchase the CD's, they're not hard to find. But beyond that Milligan was a fantastic writer, and well worth it to search out this particular novel by him.
Absolute Pandemonium! I like it.
'Kaw', said the crow.'Balls', said the Milligan.
Puckoon,1963, Spike Milliganعنوان: پاکون؛ نویسنده: اسپیگ میلیگان؛ مترجم: مجتبی ویسی؛ تهران، نشر افسون خیال، 1393؛ در 167 ص؛ شابک: 9786007192153؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان ایرلندی قرن 20 م
‭Puckoon,1963, Spike Milliganعنوان: پاکون؛ نویسنده: اسپیگ میلیگان؛ مترجم: مجتبی ویسی؛ تهران، نشر افسون خیال، 1393؛ در 167 ص؛ شابک: 9786007192153؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان ایرلندی قرن 20 م
What did I just read?!
Pure bonkers from Milligan, his first book.
I've never read any of his books, and felt it was time to rectify that.
You don't get a straightforward read with Milligan.
But there's also an escaped panther, a night-shift Chinese policeman, TNT, a clock stuck at 4.32 and a whole village full of crazy stuffed in!As I said - bonkers.
But enjoyable, and at less than 160 pages, a quick read.
Very glad to say I've now sampled Milligan.
I may try his war books next.
Стремительная, плотная, уморительная повесть с особенным лихорадочно-сбивчивым ритмом и изобретательнейшим (спасибо понятно кому) языком. При этом Миллигэн, как свойственно ирландцам (см., например, Макдона) искренне и небезосновательно полагает, что смешное и страшное не противоречат друг другу, и от этого форменный балаган с проламыванием четвёртой и всех прочих стен временами выдаёт такую атональную полифонию, что только держись.Две сотни страниц, разумеется, поглощаются (не люблю гастрономические метафоры по отношению к книгам, но что уж тут поделать)невероятно быстро, но насыщенность текста не даёт сделать это наскоком: раз в пару глав неплохо бы переводить дыхание и снова бросаться в пучину.
من که چیزی نفهمیدم ازش... شاید سه ماه از خوندنش گذشته باشه تصمیم داشتم یه بار دیگه بخونم بعد اینجا اسمشو به عنوان کتاب خونده بیارم اما الان که ریخت کتابو دیدم فهمیدم بهتره تا زمان نامشخصی دوباره خوندنشو به تعویق بندازم، نمیدونم مشکل از منه یا نویسنده یا مترجم... به هر حال که با هم کنار نیومدیم :-) دلم میخواست میتونستم بعضی ریویوهامو خصوصی کنم یا حتی استاتوس بذارم اما نمیشه این اپلیکیشن گودریدز مزخرف ترین و حرص درآرترین اپ دنیاست :-\ مسئولین رسیدگی کنن
I never would have read this without #BowieBookClub.
And I'm not sure I appreciated it enough for dear Bowie.
I enjoyed this book a lot.
Puckoon is funny.
And bizarre.
And full of English/Irish humor.
I cheered for the characters and chuckled at the jokes and rolled me eyes at the absurdity of it all.
The best part of this book was Dan Milligan, who keep arguing with the Author about how his legs should look.
And that's an absurdity I'll keep chuckling at for awhile.
Puckoon is a blurt of Spike Milligan's rapid-fire childish cleverness and is very much of its time, it was written in 1963.
This creates situations like, a small corner in the local pub in one country being in one country and having lower taxes on alcohol than the rest of the pub, so a squish of cheapskates clamour for drinks from that spot while the rest of the pub is empty.With much silliness on every page, no characters get the time to really build up a personality, with a cast of over 50 people in the slim paperback.
I first read this as a schoolboy in the 1960s, sitting in the school library with a hanky stuffed in my mouth and the tears rolling down my face. Don't bother with the film - it is a very pale and not particularly funny shadow of the book.
WTF ? I'm probably not irish enough but I have no idea what was going on. Millions of old guys talk about whatever - sorry Mr Milligan I blame me not you, but we are not meant to be ;)
Read this as part of the March 2018 submission for Bowie Book Club. Actually listened to the audiobook. Instant favourite. So funny, the not so subtle nuances about the Irish craic are sublime. I doff my cap to you sir.
The thing is twenty years have passed since I was 16, and the times have a-changed.Clearly I've got older, and I suppose we all grow out of certain phases of likes and dislikes.
I'm not saying I've become more discerning or refined, more my tastes and horizons have expanded, all of which now make Puckoon markedly less "the funniest thing ever", which I thought in 1988.More obviously, *any* jokes based on racial stereotypes just aren't funny anymore.
Given Puckoon is entirely peopled by larger-than-life Englishmen, Irishmen, a Chinaman and one-eyed Lascar sailor, it has all the ingredients of one of Bernard Manning's favourite jokes.
It's been quite some time since I lined up at the bookstore counter to meet Mr Milligan and have my copy of Puckoon signed.
It took Milligan 2 years to write this, no doubt while he was in the thrrawl of th Q Series.
As one of the greatest comedic talents of the last century it is clear that he had lots of fun writing this one down.
Believe me it is hard to write funny and there are few examples (Lennie Lower is one).From the man who created a whole new measure of radio media this book deserves to be read.
A surreal classic full of inventive wordplay of the Irish variety: I actually have this lovely old Penguin edition. From its mirthful Joycean opening to its final ironic joke dialogue, the book cracks along with amusement, absurdity and some rather sneaky wisdom. If you are the dull sort who can't get a laugh to run up under your legs, you will suffer mightily. If however you are a ready-hooter, you will find much to keep you hooting away.
Classic Irish farce on steroids This is a classic Irish farce about the futility of the war between the IRA and the British. If you enjoy the farce, no better one has ever been written. For those unfamiliar with Irish humor move forward with caution.
блестящий балаган. понятно, откуда у "Питонов" уши растут. феерическое развлекательное чтение, совершенно кинематографический памфлет с кучей речевых подарков.
Disappointing, if only because it starts so brilliantly. There are some genuine, funny, mad moments but everything falls apart roughly half way through.
That was seriously weird, that was British Panto spawns a novel. Possibly the best descriptive writing I’ve ever read but absolutely dated. You can completely see how Monty Python came into being. They’re right out of this “and now for something completely different” playbook. I say playbook but that would imply there was some kind of structure. I’m going to have to read this again because I have no idea what just happened.
Like a couple of other people who have reviewed this book, I first picked it up when I was ten (in my school library).
However, some of the language was a little complex for me at that age and I set it down after a couple of chapters.
The premise he sets up, that a border going through Ireland will separate a village in two, is amusing and interesting, but basically gets forgotten about as more and more characters and subplots are introduced, until the whole thing becomes, frankly, a bit of a mess.
Spike Milligan sure can write: one liners especially.
Like:"He had a mobile face, that is, he always took it with him.""He held one arm up to the sky and eyed the frayed cuffs of a once-upon-a-time suit."A downside: Milligan doesn't write plot or structure well.
This book sprawls between a miscellany of so many characters that one gives up on getting to know, even sort them.
"Hey, you said me legs would develop with the plot.""They will.""Den why are they still like a pair of dirty old pipe cleaners?" "It's a transitional period.""Look, I don't want transitional legs...What's did book about, here we are on page-page..page 74 –and all these bloody people comin' and going', where's it all going to end?""I don't know.
Спайк Миллигэн "Пакун" – уморительный ирландский сказ о первых временах после размежевания Ирландии. Граница прошла по деревне Пакун, разделив живых и мёртвых. И вот пошла потеха! Перевод подготовила Шаши Мартынова, очень удалой он у неё вышёл и задорный. В самом начале читатель встретится с солнцем, что волдырит всех с небес, да с волглыми шляпами.Кучеряво! Смешно до колик!Скауты, военные, пограничники, церковный служитель, простой люд, гробовщик, террористы-подрыватели, полицейские, престарелый бомонд, бездельники и лодыри, алкаши да деревенский сумасшедший – все слились в бурном экстазе.
This has got to be one of the funniest books ever written - pure genius. Somehow he manages to make the most ridiculous situations seem almost plausible, and weaves them all together to create a brilliant, hilarious, chaotic conclusion.
Умный, смешной, красивый текст. Я, вообще-то, довольно поверхностный читатель, любитель сканировать книжки по диагонали. Но "Пакун" я читаю медленно, подолгу задерживаясь на каждом предложении. Ритм текста, подбор слов, их звучание - все это какой-то бесконечный подарок внимательному читателю.
My favourite Spike Milligan novel in the history of everything
Oh no, Spike. No no no.Lame puns and a plot that is all over the show.Give it a miss.
на полпути между Майлзом и Томом Шарпом (когда тот был помоложе и получше) с выходами в Дагласа Эдамза. очень хороший
