https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13030110-all-you-zombies
Heinlein’s “All You Zombies-“ it is hands down the best time travel short story.Published in 1960, a reader and fan can see the early ideas for Time Enough for Love and I Will Fear No Evil.
Yes, and in 1960, at the still young age of 53, he was just learning to fill out his garter and stockings.I love the time travel section of the science fiction / fantasy genre.
But for a short story to pack a lot into a small package, “All You Zombies-“ wins the prize.
I'm baffled._________________________________Inspired by Ivonne's new word, I present a couple of extracts from All You Heinleiners, which I am reliably informed will be the big indie hit of 2021:- Why, you heinleining little bitch!
And remember, you're going to enjoy it twice.- Twice?- Three times if the guy watching us is who I think he is.******************************- Son, we need to have a serious talk.
There's things I gotta tell you.- Yes Dad.- Look son, you think you're a big hit with the ladies.
That doesn't bother you?- Nope.- And they're all Grandma.- So?- Jeez, it's like I'm talking to myself here.- You are talking to yourself.- Don't get smart with me, kid.
I'm speechless!
Introduce time travel and a paradox or three and you've got a short story guaranteed to make your brain whirl.Heinlein was imaginative and brilliant but some of his viewpoints about free love, incest, etc., were pretty screwy.
Combine that with his outdated views about sexual stereotypes--in particular, in this story, astronauts are men, and any women who are interested in space can aspire to join the "Space Angels" group and become glorified hookers--and you've got a really weird backdrop to an otherwise intriguing exploration of time travel paradoxes.You can read a copy of this story online here.
:) Thinking about doing a lot more Heinlein reads fairly soon.
I was impressed with the movie but even more so with the story.
I think I can thank the movie more for that aspect, although one storyline hadn't existed in the short story.Even so, very impressive ideas and a minimalist style that was so understated that I'm not too surprised I missed it the first time.
It was tight and impactive and so very easy to see how it informed the later third of his novels in both strangeness and, dare I say it, incestuousness?
After all, he's not merely informative and didactic.
This is a time paradox story.
It's not specifically *about* gender, but Heinlein's deeply sexist assumptions about how gender affects personality and his assumptions about how even a future society's sexism will not change in any way, are fully on display here.
(In the future, women don't become 'spacemen,' they are sent to be 'comfort women' for lonely spacemen who can't control their 'urges.' The possibility of a woman being a competent astronaut isn't even considered.) (view spoiler)[Unless, of course, she actually becomes a man.
(hide spoiler)] Ugh.I didn't find the ramifications of the time-travel dilemma, as presented here, as interesting or 'mind-blowing' as other readers have.PS, there are no zombies in this story.
An uber meta time travel short in which I, the reader, get mind-fucked.
simply mind blowing, one of the most unusual and thought-provoking stories I've read this year!
I stumbled upon this short story by legendary Sci-Fi writer Robert A. Heinlein thanks to its movie adaptation (that came out recently and which I happened to watch just last week): Predestination, starring Ethan Hawke as the time-travelling Temporal Agent.I have always been fascinated by the Time-travel genre, but this was simply mind-fuck of the highest order! O.O
Me lo leí ayer noche dos veces y es que no sé qué decir, es alucinante!!!! Realmente me ha volado la cabeza. Si tenéis la oportunidad leedlo por favor.
OMG! This is just wrong on so many levels. A science fiction, time travel, short story that will have you scratching your head.
wow.A man walks into a bar ...
He has frequented the bar for the past few years but only now is talking to the bartender, telling his/her story of getting pregnant and ending up then and there.The rest is a very surprising, mind-boggling time travel story full of paradoxes that makes perfect sense.According to my research, Heinlein wrote this story in one afternoon.
And no, the time he lived in cannot always simply explain or excuse it away.However, he seems to have been a gifted author with intelligent stories to tell (sometimes at least) and this one was truly brilliantly executed.
Heinlein presents one of the most mind boggling paradoxes presented by, or rather resulted from, time travel.
All time travel stories are complicated, they survive on a merry go round of events and a dramatic sequence of effect and consequence.
But in “All You Zombies”, Heinlein goes a step farther and designs a story line of an infinite loop, where the interchange of cause and effect lands the reader into a ‘chicken and egg’ situation.
Yes, it is a time travel story.
Heinlein declares the world in the story and broadly us, the readers to be Zombies i.e., mindless creatures.
Επιπλέον, το γεγονός ότι ο συγγραφέας κατορθώνει να περιγράψει αυτή την υπερσύνθετη σύλληψη μέσα σε μόνο εννέα σελίδες, με τον πιο απλό τρόπο, αυτόν της συζήτησης ενός μπάρμαν και του πελάτη του, είναι ένα επιτεύγμα που όμοιο του δεν έχω ξαναδεί.
Κανένο έργο που αφορά το ταξίδι στον χρόνο δε θα είναι τόσο mind blowing και τόσο αυθεντικό όσο το All You Zombies και τη μεταφορά του στη μεγάλη οθόνη.
Ευχάριστη έκπληξη το γεγονός ότι οι διάλογοι είναι γραμμένοι αλά 1959, κάτι που δεν περιείχε η - κατά τα άλλα εξαιρετική - μεταφορά του βιβλίου στον κινηματογράφο.
Never Do Yesterday What Should Be Done Tomorrow.If at Last You Do Succeed, Never Try Again.A Stitch in Time Saves Nine Billion.A Paradox May Be Paradoctored.It Is Earlier When You Think.Ancestors Are Just People.Even Jove Nods.A long time ago I've seen a movie called Predestination, but just recently I've found out that it was adopted from a short story called All You Zombies, so of course I had to read it.
And just like the movie blew my mind, so did this story.
The movie did add a lot of amazing twists and turns, but for some reason I enjoyed this short story a bit more.
And I would definitely recommend it to anyone who likes to read short amazing stories, with a lot of twists thrown in.
Amazing, Mind-blowing, Thrilling, Fascinating..
عرفت عن النوفيلا دي من فيلمPredestinationبما إنه كان مرتكز في سياقه عليها.الحقيقة إنها واحدة من أحسن الحاجات الخفيفة اللي ممكن نقرأها في حياتنا. ولكنها تظل مش خفيفة، الplot twistاللي فيها، وعلي حجمها الصغير ده بيخليك "تقف مشدوها" وانت بتحاول تفهم هو إيه اللي حصل بالظبط.طبعا مش محتاج أقول إنها ماينفعش تتقرأ مرة واحدة وخلاص.
Wow. In the middle of the book I realized that the story is oddly familiar. Then I remembered that I have seen the film with the likewise story: Predestination, which I really loved. The story left me speechless. It is a complex time-travel gender paradox story, asking the question of : what would happen if you go back in time and marry yourself? Damn, it is fascinating.
Estuve a punto de ver Predestination en Netflix hasta que me enteré que está basada en una historia corta de Heinlein (buscando algunas críticas en Internet). Apreté el botón de pausa.¡Ah! Es ese tipo de historias en las que te preguntas si lo que estás pensando que ha pasado es lo que realmente pasó. Tuve que regresar algunas páginas en algunos momentos solo para estar seguro. Me gustan las historias de viajes en el tiempo y esta está particularmente condimentada con paradojas temporales. ¡Excelente!Ya puedo continuar con la película.
A Paradox May Be Paradoctored!I guess it's futile trying to express the true magnitude of Heinlein's imagination structuring this looped paradoxical tale. **I'd watched the adaptation back in early 2014 when I had no big ideas about time travel, relativity (yeah, maybe a pretty dumb guy) and so was quite confusing but now it's totally different. It's awesome to find life so different in 3 years.
So good. And totally insane. The best kind of time travel story.
This story is like a neutron star: very small but with a weight beyond one's imagination. Terrific.
8/10Story of Predestination movie
Ah, ainda tô meio perdida! Hahaha... Que doideira! A maneira de abordar o paradoxo temporal me fez pensar em uma uma mistura de O Fim da Eternidade (o melhor livro de viagem no tempo que já li) e A Mulher do Viajante no Tempo (o livro de viagem no tempo mais adoidado que já li — e muito bom também). O conto foi escrito na década de cinquenta, e de fato é um tiquinho datado (view spoiler)[ em termos de identidade de gênero e transexualidade (hide spoiler)](não é uma piada). E é uma preciosa lição

Time travel can be disorienting.Very true. Some time ago I have watched the movie “Predestination” by Michael Spierig, based on the story written by Heinlein.The characters' structure is, apparently, simple. In a bar, traumatized male A meets male B. While talking, B reveals he was a female once, but her ovaries and uterus had been removed and the name has been changed. B is also traumatized because she’d known a man ( let’s call him B), and they had a child. …never to be seen again,… after birt
B is also traumatized because she’d known a man ( let’s call him B´), and they had a child.
Subject A thinks he can help subject B, because he’s able to travel back in time and sort things out, so to speak.
So they both travel back in time.
Even for A things get complicated; while trying to fix his own trauma, he meets his (sort of) nemesis; let’s call him A’, the one who caused A’s trauma.
Let’s just say that A was the one who kidnapped the baby child.
This is a story that shows the frightening effects deliberate heinleining(*) can have.It's about a man – no, wait!
– a woman actually, – wrong again!
– let's just say it's about a person.
But not just any person, because it's the last one, who - no, aargh!
- the first, or better the first, last and only one among nine billion, who — No, it's hopeless; I can't get it right.
Read it yourself if you must, but don't confuse cause with effect.(*) see Manny's review for a definition of heinleining and this list with books.
I recently came across a trailer for a new movie from the Spierig brothers and decided to seek out the source story - to aid in my attempt to read more sci-fi in general and more classic sci-fi in particular.
A quick look-see at the movie's dets shows that it is in fact based on a short story penned by Robert A.
BTW, don't read the actual Wikipedia breakdown of the story if you want the story or movie to be any sort of surprise."All You Zombies" is weird and cool and super bizarre.
Although this Heinlein story probably isn't for everyone, it IS an interesting exercise in figuring out how someone could be their own father _and_ mother through the mechanism of time travel.
What makes this good to read is the writing; in a time travel story you have more flexibility in the order you write the scenes, and Heinlein's arrangement keeps the suspense while effectively doling out the story in an order one can keep up with and understand.
It makes so little sense to me that I didn't realize I'd already read this story until I started reading it (again), because the title has no association with the story for me.

The absolute paradox about time traveling - simply mindblowing.Loved it - though sexist :)(view spoiler)[Here's a timeline that will help - better viewed after reading the story (for the first time) - found on www.heinleinsociety.org:image:  (hide spoiler)]P.S. the movie Predestination was inspired from this short story - I recommend it too (may even clarify some things)["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
