https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/545586.The_Home_Ranch
I just finished reading this book to the boys (8 and 6).
Moody or "Little Britches" treasures hard-work, honesty, integrity, and goodness.
And finally, these stories are just plain fun to read.
It is easy to become absorbed in the childhood of Little Britches.
The "Little Britches" series is exceptional, and I enjoy it because the stories are great fun, but I absolutely adore it because of the conversations that it has faccilitated in our house and the emotions we share.
Little Britches explains, "That was the first time I ever wanted to kiss a girl, but I didn't.
I thought it odd, while reading the second book, that his summer working for Batchlett only took a chapter.
I was right, it took a whole book.
He saw he was doing the same things that Hank was doing, so he couldn't be mad at Hank anymore and made the appropriate personal changes.I love how he tries to hold to the values that his parents have taught him, even though he is surrounded by men who might not.
He isn't perfect at always doing things they would be proud of, but he tries and makes needed corrections when he doesn't.
This was one of those truly excellent books. Like its predecessors, the writing within it was incredible and the plot, though the story of a life (a genre which I often don't enjoy all that much), was completely intriguing. It must be said, though, that Ralph Moody had a life that was a bit more eventful than the average person's.
I'm on a roll...so continued with number 3...I never did decide whether or not I had already read it. Although the novelty has worn off a bit, Moody still brings his youth to life and relates, in a most charming way, the difficulties of a 12-year-old, weighing 75 lbs. and doing the work of an adult cow hand.
This kid had a fascinating life!
This one focuses on the summer he worked as a cowhand away at a ranch, for a cattle trader.
I think he was 12 years old, among all these older cowhands, and he really held his own!
What 12-year-old kid today could find his way for 70 miles, in the dark, on horseback, searching for a herd of cows, in an area he's only been once in his life, without any trails, but just using river beds and clumps of trees and distant mountains and hills as landmarks?
I can see a young man with the desire to make his parents proud at every turn and feeling real shame when he doesn't measure up.
It is a real shame that our youth of today do not have these qualities.
No clear set of how or what they followed, except there is a clear impression gained by the reader that Ralph had very clear and concise morals, as did almost all of the other characters in the book.
And, maybe most important of all, how did they all seem to know the same set of morals?
If these are true stories, I just can't imagine how any young teenager survives some of the exposure of the events; lost in the mountains, lost in a dust storm, horse round ups, trick riding, charging cattle, bunkhouse fights, and canyon floods...to name a few.
It's all believable though by the way the story reads, except for one thing; distances.
The story often refers to cattle 3 miles away or 8 miles that way or 20 miles to this such canyon and so forth; I think most his reculection on how far things were is stretched, everything seems miles and miles away when you're young.
4* Ralph spends his summer as a 12-year-old hired on as a cowhand on Mr. Batchlett's home ranch.
He learns from Hazel, a cowgirl, how to find cows in the bush.
He is lost for days in the mountains.
His adventures seem rather amazing, but Ralph had lost his father at a young age, and was growing up fast as man of the family.Note: This book tells the story of the summer that was lightly skipped over near the end of the book Man of the Family.
From Man of the Family, the story segues neatly to Mary Emma and Company.
I really have loved the Little Britches series. This one was not one of my favorites. I love Ralph and I love the characters. However, I really missed his family and his mother in particular. This book is solely about his summer working on a ranch when he was 12. There was way too much information about horses and dealing with horses. That doesn't really interest me much. The story just wasn't as fun as the others in the series. I will still read the rest though. Still great writing. Still great characters. Still worth reading.
I loved this book. I think it is my favorite so far in the series. The characters, interaction with the horses, being on the ranch, Mr. Bent, Hazel, Jenny, Mr. Batchlett, and Little Britches himself, riding horses, living in a bunkhouse, learning tricks and everything in between.The characters were enjoyable. Except Trinidad, he's a big bully. I didn't like Hank at first, but I grew to love him.Ralph Moody is an amazing storyteller and this book was so great. I think everyone should read through this series at least once in their life.
Book #3 in the Little Britches Series by Ralph Moody himself. It’s entertaining, informative, and well-written. If you haven’t read aloud to another person, do so with this series—It brings the story to life as reading silently can’t do and gives you a new dimension. Ralph is 12 years old when he spends a summer in Mr Bachlett’s Home Ranch. The characters make you laugh, help you understand life in the early part of the 20th century.
This was a beautifully written story. I have enjoyed all the books in this series and would definitely read it again.
i liked it
This series continues to teach good lessons that I want my son to learn. In this book though, they are taught by Zeb and Hank rather than by Little Brithes' father.
Ralph Moody narrates his twelfth year as hand on ranch of cow trader Mr Blatchlett.
Much of first "A Boy needs a man's hand" sounds familiar, explaining why Ma lets her eldest work away for a prime salary of a dollar a day under a good mentor.
Quiet around her Ma, her Pa gets lessons to hand her up on horse same trick as Hi did for Ralph.
When Hank gets the pair lost, Ralph "waked up" with epiphany p 179.
"I'd wanted to do something real big, so people wouldn't call me Little Britches and treat me like a boy.
I couldn't understand why Ralph chose the horses Hazel wanted till the end.
Another excellent book. This whole series is a great "family" read, but if you have kids interested in cowboys or "the west " give this series a go. You won't be disappointed.
However, since his Father has passed away and his mother is always cognizant of danger, he expects her to say no.
Ralph is about twelve at the time and already a trick rider, cowhand and all-around cowboy.
But, much to his surprise, Ralph's mother allows him to take this summer job that will keep him away from his family for the entire summer.
In this book, Ralph learns even more about being a cowhand and horse trainer.
The summer is full of ups and downs, but "Little Britches" tames a wild horse that no one else could, rounds up cattle like a pro with much more seasoned cowboys, and earns more education in the world of ranching.
Supposedly, this is the third in the series, but actually it picks up a chapter in the middle of "Man of the House" and expands it.
However, I actually liked it better than "House" because it tells of Ralph's time working on a cattle ranch with Mr. Batchlett.
It was a fun book to read.
I would actually recommend getting this and "House" together and reading this when you get to the chapter about Ralph working for the summer with Mr. Batchlett.
It would fill in the blanks in "House" without breaking chronological order.
October 2014:While I hated the fact that Man of the Family ended in the middle of a crisis and that this was the next book in the series (and it goes backward in time to the last 1/3rd of Man of the Family) the book itself is part of Ralph Moody's fascinating and moral childhood.
I think that Mary Emma and Company is probably the very best of the series (closely followed by The Fields of Home) but I can see that this book is more representative of what Ralph really wanted out of life.
In Man, Mary Emma and Fields of Home, Ralph is just trying to make good on tough situations.
I loved this book even more than the first one in the series, although it's definitely a 5 start too.
Maybe I loved it so much because of my obsessive love of horses when I was growing up, I can relate to many of Ralph's feelings.
It's the kind of book you want your kids to read because it's not just a fun, adventurous story, but the underlying moral, what makes a boy a man...
a good man, is so well intertwined with Ralph's experiences that the emotional moments hit me by surprise.
It's a good read!
This is book 3 in the series, but chronologically it fits about 3/4 of the way through book 2, which is odd.
I suppose there was less of a market for long memoirs when this first came out, and it makes some sense to split the ranching job part into its own book, but since the ending of book 2 is sort of a cliff-hanger, it's disconcerting to pick up this one and find yourself going back in time.I do love this series.
The narrator's overenunciation still makes me twitch sometimes, but it's so nice to have these in spoken form.
We loved this read aloud.
Having grown up around horses it was very nice to read about a summer immersed on a ranch.
I even once tried to learn stunts on my cousin's ponies as Ralph and Hazel did.
I have family in the area where this book is set so that also added a familiar feel as well as a sense of awe.
Times were sure different when an 11 year old boy would ride his horse in the middle of the night from Littleton to Colorado Springs by himself!
The characters are fun and good and decent.

Same as with the others in the Little Britches series, this is a fun, easy story with good lessons and plenty of horses and old fashioned fun.
This one in particular had lots of neat information about riding horses, and really got me wishing I could take off at a gallop one of these days like Ralph and Blue Boy. And take an adventurous trip or two on horseback into the wilderness.
But preferably not get caught in a dust storm or lost on the plains or nearly swept away by a cloud burst like Ralph.
More complex life issues than previous books, probably because he is growing up into a young man. This results in a slower pace and greater detail to fully develop the conflict and resolution. Family sticks by family, strives to find the deeper issue, and the permanent solution. Good lesson for our society that would medicate the surface issue in spite of lingering side effects, and possibly file a lawsuit to blame others for their problems.I also reflected on the purity of Ralph's courtship, not being influenced by sex-driven media, he shows tremendous respect for Annie.
Although this is the third book in the Ralph Moody series, chronologically it takes place toward the end of "Man of the Family," when Ralph spends his summer working for Mr. Batchlett. It too is a great book, and I definitely need to read it to my kids. I think my boys especially would love it. I was intrigued by the different personalities and group dynamics of those at the ranch, but I'm looking forward to getting back to the story with the rest of his family members as well.
These are the best books for young men! The young men in my house don't like the cowboy thing though so it's not flying here. But my daughter Olivia absolutely loves these books and has reread some of them.These books are especially great to teach about hard work and responsibility.They move a little slow sometimes but they are full of little gems and funny situations. Mr. Moody had quite a life! I'm so grateful he took the time to share it with all of us.
I just think these books are amazing. At first I really looked up the father for how he treated his children with such respect yet expected a lot out of them. Then through this book, I was so impressed with the mother and how she was so great through so much adversity. Really good books for anyone who is a parent or just loves a great story. These are all non-fiction I should add. All of this really happened.
This is the third book in a series often considered the boy's equivalent of the "Little House on the Prairie" series. A beautifully-presented edition of the account of a boy growing up, with real-life hardships and challenges, a very personal account of family and people making it through despite tough circumstances, yet always with the bracing expectation that boys were expected to act like men in the face of adversity.
