https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234501.Startide_Rising
Uplifted dolphin crew with a chimp geologist and a handful of humans made an accidental discovery of galactic proportions and after sending a brief description of fifty world-sized ancient spaceships belonging to the first galactic race to have begun the uplift process for the many, many alien races filling the galaxy to the brim, Earth replies, "Oh Shit.
And in the meantime, we've got great dolphin and human characters and one asshole geologist who may or may not be redeemable, assuming we take away his mini atom bombs and tell him he may NOT study the new planet's structure while they're trying to hide from the galactic crazies.
How can you write a book where some characters are dolphins and some characters are human and you can't really tell them apart?
For some reason.Even though being a dolphin doesn't seem to change how a character thinks in comparison to a human, Brin still puts a lot of effort into developing their society.
I liked it mostly because it resulted in a 100-page climactic action/escape sequence that managed to be the most interesting part of the book.
I did not it because it also provided lots of pages for narrative dead ends and dolphin sex scenes, which aren't the selling point you might imagine.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
The Streaker is an exploration ship, crewed and captained for the first time, primarily with dolphins.
The writing isn’t amazing, but the characters are likeable, the action fast paced and gripping, the scenario imaginative and the book skips along in quick, tasty little chapters.Brin does use a lot of perspectives, both within the crew and between the various hostiles in orbit – some people may find this off-putting – but it wasn’t a problem for me.
is my favourite book of The Uplift Saga – it’s probably a 3.5 affectionately rounded up to a 4 – but definitely worth checking out.
I have no problem using different points of view to tell a story, ala GRRM, but if the characters aren't in any way engaging and have no personalities to speak of, it just becomes a jarring and disconnected experience.
This is the second Uplift novel I read, the first being Sundiver, and while I love the concept and the universe of Uplift, concept alone is not enough to keep my interest for 300+ pages.Sadly, I really do want to know what happens to the crew of the Streaker.
Do they get off that planet and escape the nefarious aliens fighting over them?

The characters aren't interestingAnd if we're talking about Startide Rising...they are completely right.
This is the kind of book I would recommend if I wanted to cement a non-SF-reader's dislike of the genre.
There's an interesting universe here that was just hinted at in Sundiver and I was looking forward to Startide Rising.
Sometimes hard science fiction suffers from the author being more in love with the ideas than the story, and the reader is left with what is essentially gripping technical documentation.
I want to be able to say the book is a good book, not just a good science fiction book.
Dolphins in space, wielding psychic powers, hide from a diverse gang of aliens on a watery planet.Th

I like this book well enough but I feel like I should like it more than I do, it has everything a good sf novel should have.
While reading the first few chapters I thought that characterization was going to be a problem with this book because I didn't get the feel of any of them.
As I read on however I began to realize that the characterization is actually quite good, the problem is that there are just so many important characters and it takes time to attune to any of them.
This is David Brin's finest space opera, and I recommend it. I find Mr. Brin's writing uneven, novel to novel. Startide Rising, though, is excellent.
And just to make things even more interesting, the crew of the Streaker are themselves divided over which course of action to take and, indeed, the planet itself has its own secrets to be dealt with.Try to ignore the fact that this is a novel about “dolphins in space” which, now that I type that, sounds like a silly children’s book title.
While the novel does feature a lot of science and “future-scientific terms”, in general it was easy enough to follow and the characters were memorable.I do plan to pursue book three, The Uplift War and likely the follow-on trilogy as well.
The dolphins are a species that is being raised up by homo sapiens.
They are the second species on earth that the homo sapiens have raised up.
The strange thing is that no one knows who raised up the homo sapiens.
When the ship reported to the Terrain government about its find, it was ordered to run because when it sent the message to Earth, all the species in the galaxies heard it and will be coming after the survey ship.
On the survey ship are six humans and one chip in addition to the 132 remaining dolphins.
Many characters are left hanging mid-plotline by the end of the book, many questions asked but not answered, and those that are given answers (like Kithrup’s history) are only shallowly explored.
And surely it’s not too much to expect a science fiction writer to actually bother to do some basic research into biology - for instance, the fact that mammal-eating orcas don’t vocalize while hunting.
And while it’s possible that some of my questions were answered in Sundiver, after the disappointment of this book, I’m not inclined to bother reading anything else of Brin’s.
Mind you, this is the same decade that brought us Spock swimming with humpback whales in an attempt to preserve life on Earth, so it's not as though David Brin was breaking new ground with his second tale set in the Uplift universe.Set 200 years after the events in Sundiver, the first book in the series, humankind has continued with their genetic tinkering with the DNA of both dolphins and chimpanzees and the cetaceans are beginning to step out from their accepted role as one of humanity's client species and starting to create some amount of self determinism for their kind.
3.5Dolphiiiins iiiinnnnn Spaaaaaaaaace.
Really that's almost everything you need to know.
The Good: The visual of dolphins piloting starships and riding around with robotic tool-hands.
Dolphin language like Haiku.
A whole rigid universal hierarchy.
Genetic manipulation.
Intense complex world-building.
The No-so-good: Like all things we love the Good has a flip side which annoys us.
Too many characters sometimes doing the same things.
Takes awhile to really get into the full story (so if you don't like the characters or situations immediately it's easy to put down early on).
Recommended if you're a fan of epic world-building space operas...or dolphins.
It isn't really a space opera, because not much is happening in space - a couple of pages focus on alien races' siege ending with an interesting escape by our human/dolphin escape combined with a rant and rave at the aliens.
The further fate of this discovery isn't made clear, because the novel concentrates mainly on the fate of the human/dolphin/chimpanse crew.Brin switched rapdily the POVs - every couple of pages the emotions and reasoning of a different crew member is used to draw the reader nearer.
Congenial dolphins, lots of vicious and fascinating alien races, a couple of mysteries are enough to make this book worthwhile.
In reading my way through the Hugo Award winning novels, I've come across many books that I loved, and many more that were well worth reading.
Brin's failure here is not merely one of imagination, though the post-Star Wars universe of the Uplift books is decidedly derivative.
Startide Rising not only boasts some of the most awkward sex scenes in the history of the genre, it also features bad poetry, thinly imagined characters, and descriptions of malevolent aliens so ham-handed they would embarrass a 9th grade creative writing student.
But when jokes about engineers having watched too much Star Trek is the best that can be said for your SF novel, it's time to go back to the drawing board.
"Have you any plans for lunch'" says an uplifted dolphin, "I still have some of that canned octopus left..." I would have thought that of all the oceans creatures to be uplifted, the brainy octopus would have been a prim candidate as they are clever, and are both water and air breathers...I know, this is early Brin and would write some great stuff later on, and this is meant to be tongue and cheek, but I did not find it very funny.
way too much emphasis on the particular characteristics of individual species.
It is, unfortunately, way too long and dull.
Very engaging sequel to Sundiver, although it takes place 200 years in the future from that book and some of the threads that I would have liked to see pursued got dropped in the process.
Oh well, this was still an excellent book {and better than the first one IMO).
I wonder if, as Brin states at one point in the novel, cetaceans would not choose to go back to their unaltered state.
Lots of action, lots of intrigue, lots of potential for future novels.
Should you read this book? Yes.Do you need to read the first book in the Uplift Trilogy, Sundiver? No, but it's also dope and I think you probably should because Brin is a genius.Does it have biologically uplifted dolphins as a majority of the main characters? Yes.Did it win both the Hugo and the Nebula awards when it came out? Yes.Did it deserve to? ABSOLUTELY!Mankind's place in a cosmos is fascinating in the Uplift Trilogy. So if you're in for a great science fiction book chock-full of big ideas, I definitely encourage you to check out Startide Rising.
I am fascinated by the idea of aquatic pilots---I think that they would understand space differently because underneath is not a hard stop. All of the details about how a mixed aquatic and non-aquatic crew could live and function on the same ship were fascinating, I also really liked the communication difficulties.I can't wait to read more books by Brin, this one gave me so much to think about.
In fact the whole book fits the genre of "space opera" much more closely than "hard science fiction".The story also stands alone - apparently this trilogy is connected in setting only.
A few cameo references are given to the previous novel, and this story takes place quite a bit after.Good plot, flat characters, not as good as the previous effort - this strongly suggests at least some of the awards were more for the author or the first book than this one.
There's still a problem with a) too much going on, b) too many far-future, new-fangled contraptions and abilities, c) cartoon-like creatures, and d) difficulty making all the components fit.Some of the ideas here (many carried over from the first), are just so good!
It was so much fun belonging to the human race and reading this book.
If anyone values coherence, continuity, or order, this is going to be a challenging book.
From what I've read so far, I'm never going to love the Uplift Saga, but if it continues like this, I'm going to find a lot to like in it.
Yra daug far far future knygų, kuriose ieškoma kaip baigsis žmonijai jei neįsisiautės koks rusų caras ar religiniai maniakai.
Dauguma jų mato niūrią ir dažnai barbarišką žmogelių ateitį.
Bet yra vienas žanras, kuris mato mus išplitusius galaktikoje, dalyvaujančius tapžvaigždiniuose karuose, mezgančius politines intrigas tarp skirtingų rasių.
Ši Brin serija viena iš mano mėgiamiausių.
Ne tokia detali kaip Dune, ne tokia supainiota kaip Warcraft 20k ir ne tokia technokratiška kaip Ender, ši kosminė opera verčia didžiuotis savo ainiais.
O ir fantazijos tikrai netrūksta.
Jau vien delfinai šnekantys sudėtingomis haiku struktūromis, atskiro sci fi paminklo reikalaujantis fantazijos blykstelėjimas.
Much better than rather clumsy SUNDIVER.STARTIDE RISING won HUGO and NEBULA awards in 1983.There are some good parts and it has an epic dimension but it is to long and,to be honest,a little boring.Overall,not bad,but overrated.
At first, I couldn't decide if I liked  Sundiver  or this book better. The former has a superior mystery, and arguably a superior plot. Startide Rising, on the other hand, is more satisfying on the subject of "uplift" itself and better portrays the multitudinous horrors of Galactic society.After considering my quandary further, I decided to throw in behind Sundiver. My fellow Goodreads reviewers seem split on this question, but the more I think about it, the more I'm certain. As much as I like w
Startide Rising, on the other hand, is more satisfying on the subject of "uplift" itself and better portrays the multitudinous horrors of Galactic society.After considering my quandary further, I decided to throw in behind Sundiver.
As much as I like what Startide Rising does to further the uplift concept central this series, its story and characters are muddled and dull.We get a very sparse look at Galactic society in Sundiver, with singular representatives from a few species.
Keep it simple Startide Rising does not.My Reviews of the Uplift series:← Sundiver | The Uplift War →
The humans and other Earth-originating species (there's an enhanced chimp as well as all the dolphins) are considered somehow superior to almost all the alien species despite being upstarts, space-faring for mere centuries rather than hundreds of millenia.
It smacks of a more subtle version of the vile moral of Cryptonomicon i.e. that the USA is superior to everybody else because it expends more time, money, brain power and effort on developing ever-increasingly efficient methods of killing people than others do.
Given the early eighties origin of this book, it could be simply yet another not overly subtle USA vs.
The ship crashes on a water world and struggles for survival as the "Galactics" battle overhead for the right of capture.I was not so impressed with "Sundiver," the first book in the Uplift series.
David Brin has a unique talent for constructing consistent, plausible alien world-views.
There is wisdom in his dolphins, but there is also avarice, ambition, brutality and other characteristics that are unique to the species.The novel is somewhat more convoluted than necessary, and it seemed to me that several major plots were left unresolved.
Only Brin book I've read in my native language. HC SciFi and entertainment at its best. Great story, deep enough characters for their purpose and most importantly for a SciFi, a vivid picture of an active universe with millions of years of history.I love how the dolphins think and perceive the world around them through sonar pictures and their own language of clicks and whistles.The other uplift books are good too, but the english used in them is REALLY difficult. To really get something out of them I had to read them twice.
Good Lord. Why did I hate this so much? Even I don't know. Talking dolphins; space opera; strange planets and a cool intergalactic hierarchy of "master" races "uplifting" their lessers. Ostensibly these are all good ideas. I guess I just hated that every character seemed to have one voice, and that voice was Obnoxious.My Hugo-Nebula mission meets its first major challenge. But then, life's too short for asshole dolphins. I put the book down about 2/3 into it. If I want underwater spec fic, that one TV show with Roy Schneider will just have to do.
