https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257845.True_Grit
it’s horrible!But here is True Grit, which I recommend to all goodreaders.
I don’t usually rush to read the bookofthemovie but the voice of 14 year old Mattie Ross whose story this is is brilliant :Rooster talked all night.
The collision of the great Falstaff-as-Terminator character of Rooster Cogburn and the innocent-but-uncanny Mattie is a kind of love story.
It’s a fast read but I was slowing down all the time.
The meanest one is Rooster Cogburn.
Yes, I will say Quinn is about the best they have.'I said, 'Where can I find this Rooster?”
This teenage girl was every bit the match for hardened men of her day and her narration, looking back from a long life, conjured images of a tough older women, wizened to her world yet acknowledging from a distance of time the stuff of her earlier self.
While Portis’ novel is told from the spunky perspective of Mattie Ross (and both films follow her as the central protagonist) in both the character of Deputy Marshall Reuben “Rooster” Cogburn is the man who steals the show.
The story of dynamic Mattie Ross, a spunky 14 -year -old girl, from Yell County Arkansas, who seeks justice , when her beloved father is treacherously murdered, on the streets by the reprehensible outlaw Tom Chaney in Fort Smith, in the Razorback State.
He shoots first and asks questions later, as over a dozen deceased outlaws have found out too late, Cogburn will track down the criminal for a generous fee, in the lawless, nearby Oklahoma Territory were Chaney has gone , but is known to take a drink or two...maybe a little more.
But I'm being priggish again.Meanwhile, True Grit is in fact a western, and I enjoyed it very much.
As you probably already know, either from the book itself or its two film adaptations, it's a story told by a teenage girl, which already tweaks the genre out of its usual torpor.
She—the heroine, Mattie Ross—is an old-fashioned eccentric: precocious, indomitable, moralistic but practical, pedantic, stubborn, loquacious, and—because of all these traits—contrary to the western archetype of the teenage girl.
In these ways, it certainly transcends caricatured rote that hobbles so much genre fiction.
and maybe a lot of people find that awesome, but me, this reader, it was like when you are just drifting off to sleep pleasantly and then you hear this mosquito, and you are like - goddammit- that thing again, and you could still drift off, but your sleep would be tainted by knowing you were probably going to wake up with a swollen itchy face.
(this probably doesn't make any sense - i have a zillion things happening in my head right now so i am only giving this review 70% attention)i can't help it, my heart belongs to ree.
Mattie Ross is just 14 years old when she hooks up with Rooster Cogburn, the “meanest” U.S. Marshal, to avenge her father, killed by an outlaw who took advantage of his good nature.Mattie endures bad weather, illness, grueling hours on horseback, runs into outlaws, and fights off rattlesnakes.
“Nature tells us to rest after meals and people who are too busy to heed that inner voice are often dead at the age of fifty years."“I had hated these ponies for the part they played in my father’s death but now I realized the notion was fanciful, that it was wrong to charge blame to these pretty beasts who knew neither good nor evil but only innocence.
I love this book! I was barely starting to read it and I was already amazed of how much I was enjoying the reading experience and how much I like the way how it was written.Definitely I want to read other books by Charles Portis and I hope to do it in the near future.I wasn't ignorant about the story due I remember that I watched the film with John Wayne at some moment and definitely I watched the recent remake with Jeff Bridges. I would not put a thief in my mouth to steal my brains. I chose t
I was barely starting to read it and I was already amazed of how much I was enjoying the reading experience and how much I like the way how it was written.Definitely I want to read other books by Charles Portis and I hope to do it in the near future.I wasn't ignorant about the story due I remember that I watched the film with John Wayne at some moment and definitely I watched the recent remake with Jeff Bridges.
The more I thought about it, I was pretty sure that I’d even owned a very old copy of the book once upon a time.Months later, I heard that the Coen brothers were doing a new movie version with Jeff Bridges taking John Wayne’s place as Rooster.
So the new movie version of True Grit came out and was getting rave reviews, and I wanted to see it.
Verily, the Reading Gods had delivered unto me a sign.After going and seeing the movie yesterday and enjoying it immensely, I cracked open the book last night and rediscovered a story written in what certainly feels like authentic Old West speech.
A good story, is a story well told. And True Grit is such a story: pure story-telling ; with great characters. Nothing happens much for half of the book, but it is in the last hundred pages that real action happens that thrills you, and thrills you good. But it is the prose that is the unmistakable hallmark of the novel; the dialogues were crafted so beautifully that you want to read them again and again; and reading was, in itself, a pleasure. Very few books have this combination: excellent prose and story-telling.
As for instance when Mattie asks the Fort Smith sheriff who the best local marshal might be:The sheriff thought on it for a minute.
Yes, I will say Quinn is about the best they have.”I said, “Where can I find this Rooster?”Joining Mattie and Rooster on their quest into Indian territory is the dandyish Texas Ranger called LaBoeuf, whose name – pronounced "la beef" – struck a chord with me, because I had already embarrassed myself by mentioning the nearby park of Petit Jean to my Uber driver and pronouncing it the French way.
Yes, I will say Quinn is about the best they have."I said, "Where can I find this Rooster?"Mattie makes her way to the Federal Courthouse and watches as Rooster Cogburn, a surly one-eyed deputy marshal for the Western District of Arkansas, is grilled by the attorney of Odus Wharton, whose father and brother were both shot and killed by Cogburn during his arrest.
After  Huckleberry Finn probably the single greatest novel of the American West. It's been adapted twice for the films. Neither captures what makes this a book so great: the stern, judgmental, archaic, hilarious voice of the narrator, Mattie Ross. The kind of novel you find yourself revisiting every couple years. I learned more about "voice" from this story than from anything else I've ever read.
Upon learning the culprit Chaney has escaped into the lawless lands of Indian Territory, she sets about finding a man she can hire who is sufficiently mean and capable enough to find him and kill him if necessary.
The man she carefully picks, Rooster Cogburn, is a middle-aged, one-eyed, fat alcoholic, but she believes he has the necessary “true grit” to get the job done.
When asked to ID her father’s body, we see how readily she can set aside her grieving in favor of the job she needs to do:“I said,”That is my father.” I stood there looking at him.
"People do not give it credence that a fourteen-year-old girl could leave home and go off in the winter-time to avenge her father’s blood but it did not seem so strange then, although I will say it did not happen every day."This is exactly what Mattie Ross, now on my list of all-time favorite narrators/protagonists, sets out to do in this entertaining and adventure-filled western.
Told with simple and straightforward prose, True Grit has wonderful moments of comical banter between Rooster, "an old one-eyed jasper that was built along the lines of Grover Cleveland", the handsome but insolent LaBoeuf, and the spunky, intelligent Mattie Ross herself.
This is the story of Mattie Ross from Dardanelles, Arkansas and what a story it is!
She is a whirlwind of pure Will who has the complete measure of Rooster Cogburn and Le Boeuf, the two marshals who accompany her on her quest.Mattie selects Cogburn for this job because she judges him to have 'grit" but I am sure it won't be a surprise to anyone that it is in fact her who possess the True Grit of the title.A classic story which I strongly recommend to all.
My book is the 2010 reprint (with an afterward by Donna Tartt ) which coincided with the release of the the second True Grit movie directed by the Cohen Brothers and starring Jeff Bridges, but my memories of the story come straight from the great old John Wayne production in 1968, which most likely I watched on a black and white screen.
Mattie's a girl with a lot of pluck who was hard to forget even after all these years.

I was just fourteen years of age when a coward going by the name of Tom Chaney shot my father down in Fort Smith, Arkansas, and robbed him of his life and his horse and $150 in cash money plus two California gold pieces that he carried in his trouser band." So begins Charles Portis’ 1968 novel, True Grit.
Mattie realizes that she can’t travel alone into that treacherous territory and achieve her goal of bringing Chaney back to Fort Smith to stand trial in Judge Isaac Parker’s federal court for the Western District of Arkansas.
When I think Western stereotypes, I think of the following:✘ Dusty but suave male lead who has an easy time of getting women to sleep with him.✘ Horses.✘ A scene in a bar (with optional bar fight.)✘ HORSES!✘ A scene in a jail.✘ Neighhhhhhhh✘ Showdown/duel style finale.This isn't a narrative I can get excited about.However, when I first watched Tarantino's Django Unchained, I was struck with an instalove strong enough to rival even the shittiest of Young Adult novels.
I love the characters & I think it definitely delivers the quality story promised in the premise.It just didn't WOW me.
Quite simply, it's a classic mix of an upright, stubborn, and principled young girl out to avenge the murder of her father in post-Civil War Arkansas.
The mix produces humor, terrific dialogue, and, of course, the adventure you'd expect in lawmen with a 14-yr-old chasing down posses of bad guys.But really, what makes this book work is voice.
It's a no-brainer for Twain fans to become Portis fans.I pulled this off of my classroom library shelf before skedaddling in late June.
I picked up this novel in part because of  Warwick's great review  and I was not disappointed. This addictively readable story is part comedy, part character study, part adventure, and part history lesson. I listened to the audio version narrated by Donna Tartt who is pitch-perfect as Maddie Ross. The audio edition also includes an interesting essay written by Tartt that looks at True Grit's appeal across multiple generations and discusses some of the reasons why it's so freakin' good.
I needed a western to read for a challenge prompt and that is so far outside of my comfort zone, when a GR friend recommended this one.
True Grit was such a wonderfully told story, completely punched me in the gut towards the end and will be one that I will pay it forward and recommend to other friends to read.
Mattie Ross is 14 and is ready to avenge her father's murder by Tom Chaney.
This is exactly the type of western I wanted.
Mattie Ross is a smart and determined girl.
(hide spoiler)] but westerns certainly can't be all rainbows and glitter.
The matter-of-fact attitude toward greed, lawlessness and violence may help toward explaining the United States of today.In the afterword Donna Tartt writes of her love for the book and how that love was passed down to her by its starting with her gentle, innocent, elderly great-grandmother.
All very interesting to me, as when I was reading the account of Mattie’s grapples with her enemy, the violent struggle of Harriet with her nemesis in Tartt’s The Little Friend came immediately to mind.
Now that I’ve read this, I know Harriet’s (literary) ancestor.
This novel contains some of the best dialogue that I have ever read, so it shouldn't be a surprise that the original True Grit movie lifted, verbatim, large chunks of passages from the book.
(These comic exchanges are, to my mind, a rival to Faulkner's "Spotted Horses.") The Civil War, as a still unfolding event, is also always present, as the past histories of both the Texas Ranger, LaBoeuf, and Rooster Cogburn, play out during the course of the novel.
Her instrument of vengeance, Rooster Cogburn, is in many ways a like minded character.
Rooster is not the only character in the book with "true grit."
I’ve often wondered how much of the original book was captured in these movies vs invented by the screen writers, actors and directors but was never interested in reading the book until I read Emily Temple’s article on Lit Hub calling True Grit’s opening paragraph “perfect” and “an object lesson in creating character.” While I think it takes Portis a bit more than the wonderful first paragraph, certainly the first two chapters of True Grit are a master class in creating an edible character.
Every high school/college English and creative writing class should begin with reading the first two chapters of this novel.Returning to the movies, the story and wonderful humor-filled dialogue is all Portis.
4.5 starsThis was a great pleasure. Rarely do books come with as strong a voice as Mattie Ross's.
True Grit by Charles PortisMy rating: 5 of 5 starsRanked #3 on my Top 10 Reads in 2012 "True Grit is the best novel to come my way in a very long time...One of those rare sweet delights...one can recommend it to inveterate fiction readers and to those who read only one or two novels a year." - taken from the back of the book.Blurb: True Grit tells the story of Mattie Ross, a fourteen-year-old girl from Dardanelle, Arkansas, who sets out in the winter of eighteen seventy-something to avenge th
True Grit by Charles PortisMy rating: 5 of 5 starsRanked #3 on my Top 10 Reads in 2012 "True Grit is the best novel to come my way in a very long time...One of those rare sweet delights...one can recommend it to inveterate fiction readers and to those who read only one or two novels a year." - taken from the back of the book.Blurb: True Grit tells the story of Mattie Ross, a fourteen-year-old girl from Dardanelle, Arkansas, who sets out in the winter of eighteen seventy-something to avenge the murder of her father.
I don't think that I feared them as much as I should have or I would not have been living alone out in the country amongst the wild oats, coyotes and snakes.
I got to the end of the pile, and there on the ground, curled up, was a large rattler.
After covering the rattler up I went inside the house.
Then I found a baby one, maybe 6 inches long, under the window where my cats got into the house.
We also have cats, and they tend to kill anything they find, so that could be the reason, but I like to think that they just don’t like it here.
For example (demonstrating both the straightforward prose and directness of the main protagonis, Mattie Ross):Yarnell said, "You can't stay in this city by yourself."I said, "It will be all right.
There are some entertaining scenes but for the most part I thought the style of the writing, while true to the character it was portraying, kept it from being more.For me, this could have been a much better book had he made her an English teacher or novelist (like Gordie in Stephen King's The Body which I just read) later in life when she "wrote this." Then she could actually have the writing chops to make this a well-written story instead of a play-by-play of events.
It is so well written and entertaining that readers tend to reread this story over and over.
Rueben (Rooster) Cogburn is a deputy US Marshal in Arkansas, and a civil war calvary veteran.
Another law is looking for Chaney for killing a Senator, a Texas Ranger, La Boeuf, joins the party.
The author pulls the reader in and makes he/she part of the action.
There have been 2 movies and the first, 1969, is my favorite: John Wayne as Rooster, Kim Darby as Mattie, Glen Campbell as La Boeuf, Robert Duvall as Ned Pepper and Dennis Hopper as Moon.
