https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137791.Divine_Secrets_of_the_Ya_Ya_Sisterhood
When I was pregnant with my oldest child, a girl, I had a dream.
In my dream, I was in the hospital, postpartum, holding not the one child I knew that I had been pregnant with .
And then, in my dream, my own mother walks into the room with the also all-too-familiar glower she has reserved for me for as far back as I can remember.
In the first few pages of Divine Secrets, you are plunged into the life of an interesting, lively young woman and her relationship with her mother.
When I read this book in 2002, I cried because I got that woman's rage towards her mother.
Rebecca Wells can think up a few succulent stories, but her writing is absolute fast-food.
(view spoiler)[Of COURSE the story had to end with a big white wedding!
By the end of the book, I was ready to scream if I had to read one more description of what brand of clothing every female character donned in each scene.
In the case of her showing how the working class treatment of black servants in Louisiana was superior to the high-society approach in Georgia, she once again seemed to be superficially addressing an issue that for me needed more attention and in-depth analysis sheerly to avoid controversy.
I think Vivi WAS a tap-dancing child abuser.
Any discussion of this fact ends at the "being whipped with the belt" scene.
Vivi had no right to be enraged when this fact comes to light--she should have been embarrassed, yes.
Her daughter arguably should not have revealed this dirty laundry but should have worked it through with her mother privately.According to this book, a scrapbook of silly adventures with Vivi's zany friends makes that behavior forgivable...not an apology or explanation from Vivi.
Daughter is chastened and forgives dear Vivi after reading the scrapbook.Another thing...PLEASE, spare me the "Southern Women" stories.
Daughters learning that Mom had a life before she became a Mother, and has a separate identity apart from "Mom."I think my main problem was that I thought the Ya-Yas were all a bunch of spoiled brats that we're supposed to love just because we're told to.
She doesn't really seem to have much identity of her own, she just exists so there can be a Happy Ending, that we all knew was coming anyway.The main conflict between Sidda and her mother seems to be that Vivi beat the holy hell out of her kids, and she's mad that Sidda is now famous enough to be interviewed for the New York Times and she told them about it.
I am so tired of this sort of storyline.
A group of Southern women who form a timeless bond of woman-ness and Southern-ness and triumph in the face of all hardship because they are delicate as blossoms yet strong and fierce.
I believe Rebecca Wells does an above-average job at this, and her book was a fun and easy read.
It was hardly ground-breaking, nor did I find it moving, and I didn't shed a tear or laugh out loud.
When the whole Ya-Ya craze was going on, my book club decided we'd better read it to see what all the fuss was about.
I found it disturbing that hordes of women were flocking to this book that is really about completely dysfunctional families and marriages and a really unhealthy attachment to friends from the past.
It made me wonder what's going on with women that this kind of co-dependent group of friends was something to aspire to.I had a similar reaction to Bridges of Madison County, although I did go see the movie, and Meryl Streep did get me, despite my skepticism.
Seriously not my cup of tea. Cutsey language, sentimentality run amok, and a deep sense of nostalgia for times that, well, I couldn't possibly feel nostalgic for. I'm not sure how an abusive mother is supposed to be funny or colorful, nor how transferring your disfunction onto you children is to be held up like a badge of honor. Maybe I needed to have crazy parents to understand it.
One gets the impression that Vivi needed the Ya-Yas so she could be notorious somewhere, since she doesn't have the class or discipline to accomplish anything of genuine value.It's badly written, the dialogue is clumsy, and I think it must hold some kind of world record for wallowing in self-pity.
"Complex" needs to stop being a literary euphemism for "manipulative, self-serving, toxic, and narcissistic." Ironically, Vivi is the least likable and least interesting of the four Ya-Yas, though she's supposed to be the luminary.I guess it says something that Ms. Wells has lived in Washington state for the past 25+ years: If she loved Louisiana so much, why did she leave and then write boring, mindless, novels about it?
My mother and her Ya-Ya’s were called the sisters of Beta Sigma Phi sorority in Charleston S.C. I grew up on the marshes watching them swing dance, shuck oysters and throwing what always seemed like a never ending festival that celebrated life.
They did community work and supported the local theatre, but mostly they just had a good time.
I grew up in the whirlwind of color and laughter that now seems only like a distant dream.
Momma passed 18 years ago and I don’t think I will ever be the same.
So pass the "bloodies" sugar, it’s time to get our panties in a knot!
I had a very complicated relationship with my mother and though a cliche, I could well relate to that aspect of the book!
I also love the movie, but I love the book more!
I've also battled severe depression and this book (and movie) is near to my heart.
Ms. Wells has Lyme disease and has had a horrible past few years, and when I joined the message boards on her website, I mentioned that I had Lyme disease and as a result have been battling many health problems myself over the years.
I have Rheumatoid Disease (aka Rheumatoid Arthritis) and have likely had it since I was fairly young (aka Juvenile RA).
Much of this book I found really aggravating -- the unthinking privilege of the Ya-Yas, their total narcissism, the constant and tedious drama -- and yet I found myself looking forward to my lunch breaks so I could read it.
Despite the foreignness of the situations and location, the class and race, there was still enough of my mother and me in Vivi and Siddalee Walker to make the book resonate with me.
In the end, that's what I enjoyed (not quite the right word -- you know what I mean, though) most ...
Has anyone else read this book and thought it sucked?
I started off excited to read this book and that's where that enthusiasm left me.To start - Wow religious!
Which - clearly this love/hate between mom and daughter is not something new.
Good thing this won't help you in any sort of way!So then we get random stories of the mother and her depression and addiction, but still nothing is resolved.
And when her daughter does have more questions - it's not the mom who comes - it's her friends.And then randomly - the daughter just forgives her mom - decides to get married again - and life is wonderful.
self-pitying, self-destructive characters.
If you don't find these women as adorable and outrageous as they find themselves, you are really going to hate this book. And I did.
DNF I tried, I really did. I know watching Monk instead of reading was distracting, but the writing was bland to me. It was slow, and I remember the movie being decent. Maybe, I’ll pick it up again, but right now I just cannot do it. It just wasn’t for me. I need to move on.
This book may be entertaining for someone who likes gossip so much, because here you can get to know all the juicy events that happened in the youth and life of four women who were best friends and thought they were absolutely amazing and called themselves the Ya-Yas.So, this story starts when a Petite Ya-Ya, that's how the Ya-Yas called their daughters, (not so petite anymore) let escape in an interview with the New York Times that her mother, the awesome Vivi, used to hit her.
So, if you really feel intrigued enough to know all of the adventures and things the Ya-Yas went through, then maybe it is an ok book for you.
The only thing better than reading about dysfunctional, alcohlic, crazy families is reading about dysfunctional, alcoholic, crazy Catholic families. Who are Southern. Every now and then I'll sit down and reread the chapter where Vivi and her friends (fourteen at the time) travel to Atlanta by themselves for the premiere of  Gone With the Wind  and Vivi ends up throwing a plate at her cousin when he insults one of the maids. Then there's the time the girls enter a Shirley Temple lookalike contest
The only thing better than reading about dysfunctional, alcohlic, crazy families is reading about dysfunctional, alcoholic, crazy Catholic families.
Who are Southern.
Every now and then I'll sit down and reread the chapter where Vivi and her friends (fourteen at the time) travel to Atlanta by themselves for the premiere of 
Gone With the Wind
and Vivi ends up throwing a plate at her cousin when he insults one of the maids.
Then there's the time the girls enter a Shirley Temple lookalike contest and get kicked out for farting onstage.
And when they climbed the town's water tower, went skinny-dipping in it, and got arrested.
Really awful Southern girl shit.
This book speaks so true to core of what I feel.
Life circumstances hit and she remains in that same small town with a group of female friends who have been around since childhood.
As I read the story from her daughter, Sida, I see what it is like to be a child of someone who is so big and yet so unfulfilled.
What can a Vivi-like person do?
I always read this book when I need grounding.My most favorite image from the story - Vivi, depressed in her room, has a Mary Kay type salesperson come to the door.
Grab a girlfriend, drink mint juleps and toast to sisterhood! This book shares all the details of the close relationships girlfriends share.
I will agree that the whole southern friendship pact was over the top, but I think that Wells was trying to present a rare friendship and an outlandish character in Viviane.
Having listened to her stories, I think the characters are plausible, and the storyline is very engaging.
But I didn't think Wells so much as justified her behavior as brought Sidda, Viv's daughter, to a place of understanding and forgiveness.
Wells did a great job constructing events that led to Viv's alcoholism, abuse, and nervous breakdown.
I thought Viv's months in the Catholic school were particularly well done.I stand by my initial rating; I really enjoyed this book.
I thoroughly enjoyed Wells' first book, Little Altars Everywhere (which was a gift, fittingly, from my very northern sister-in-law. So I was dismayed to read this book and find that Wells had basically rehashed the stories from Little Altars and dismally lessened their effect. Even more depressingly, this book got all the book club attention while Little Altars languished. Bleah.
Disappointed. Overly romanticized. I really wanted to like this book and I gave it 2 stars because it had potential but unfortunate Wells butchered it (and her editor didn't stop it?!) with all the ridiculous descriptions. Pet peeve: I hate being told exactly how a character feels over and over, it takes away any personal interpretation or imagination.
The word that constantly came to mind when i read this book was 'contrived'.
Everything felt so contrived about this book.
There seemed to be a lot of characters and information in the book that didn't seem like it had a reason to be there.
Again, those felt too contrived.
Even in the most boring of books i have read so far, the descriptive pieces didn't really bother me, but this one sure did.I was wondering if coca-cola paid for putting promos in this book.Well, i have to confess that there were bits that did grip me.
I'm glad this was quite a fast read, because I didn't find it all that enjoyable.
I disliked the main characters (from the beginning I thought Vivi was arrogant, selfish, manipulative and someone who finds herself better, more important and more deserving than others, and I found Sidda whiny.
It felt like a lot of blablabla, especially the parts involving adult Sidda.
I did like the parts describing Vivi's life as a girl, in the Lousiana of the 30s and 40s and 50s, and I like the close friendship the Ya-Ya's had, lasting for 60 years.
I found this book pretty weird. The child abuse was so lightly dealt with -- and it's still abuse if it only happens once. Physical abuse, even on just one occasion, sticks in your mind. Especially when you're a child and you haven't had that many experiences yet. It's not something to be just... dismissed and so easily forgiven.That kind of distracted me from the supposedly awesome stuff about this novel.Also, such melodrama. Cut it out, guys.
Divine Secrets is spectacular! Definitely pass on my reccommendation! Also, guys, I think you ESPECIALLY need to read this book if you're at all confused about women. It will give you a spectacular insight. Modern classic. Highly reccommended. Also, if you get the opportunity, watch the film. Its incredibly different from the book, but that's how these things go. Still a spectacular movie.
15/20Une lecture qui, sous ses aspects légers, s’avère en réalité bien plus grave et profonde. Un très beau roman sur la famille, l’amitié et le pardon qui, bien qu’elle soit souvent confuse, est assez charmante et touchante.Ma chronique : https://myprettybooks.wordpress.com/2...
Fun southern gal romp ala Steel Magnolias.
ugh. there is no button showing how much I hated this book. awful.
