https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107898.On_the_Edge_of_Reason
This is just a small example from my own life of having to deal with certain blind-obedience to illogical dictates but it's tiresome and at times it feels so much easier to just say fuck it, return everything the stupid little machine tells me to and not have to worry about having to fight with someone over trying to do what is best for the store.
Our first-person protagonist is unnamed.
He's a Croation lawyer, working for a very politically connected businessman.
Drunk at a party he's hosting, the businessman loudly brags about his killing of four men who were trying to break into his cellar to steal a liter of Riesling.
Two he shot at the cellar door; the other two at the fence that led to safety.
The incident happened thirty years before, but the businessman relishes the telling of his killing the four "mad dogs."Our protagonist has a moment of clarity.
There's no earthly reason or excuse for not reading this.Remember, our first-person protagonist is unnamed.
I am as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore!Faimoasa replică din filmul Network (1976) ar fi putut fi subtitlul acestei cărţi deştepte şi oarecum incomode.
Incomode pentru că ne forţează să deschidem ochii, să vedem (nu doar să privim) lumea şi societatea din jurul nostru exact aşa cum este: superficială, egoistă, falsă şi strâmbă...
într-un cuvânt, defectă.
Ştim noi destul de bine cum e sub coada altuia, dar fără această adulmecare nu se poate trăi..."În concluzie: citiţi această carte.
Citiţi această carte dacă vă frustrează prostia.
Sau dacă uneori vă vine să strigaţi: "Opriţi Pământul!
Krleza deceptively starts off with his protagonist penning a banal self-portrait; he is, he tells us, a well-meaning nonentity who has a high tolerance for the vast folly he see around him as he drifts through life, corporate attorney for a manufacturing company.
But liberated by his act, the hero stands firm against the growing hypocrisy of friends and institutions and follows a centrifugal course beyond the bounds of his former life.
Kada sam čitala ovaj roman konačno sam pomislila " Aha, zato svi misle da je genijalan." Stvarno je odličan pisac, zna pisati što je je, ali nekako imam podijeljen sud o njegovim radovima, neki mi se manje sviđaju, neki više...nekad je malo predvidljiv, ali opet nekad je potpuno nepredvidljiv.
Znam da mi je netko pričao kako je bio težak karakter, ali opet tko nije?
Ovaj roman mi je bio težak za čitanje, ali vrijedan toga.
Radi se o intelektualcu u sukobi sa društvom, kao u...pa u puno modernih i postmodernih romana.Eto ne mogu smisliti ni neku dostojnu usporedbu.
Perhaps a little on the nose, and a little repetitive in its critique, but some great writing and well worth your time.
Although this is a Croatian literary classic, this work definitely deserves to be included in all those "must-read-before-you-die", "best books of all time" or "read this if you want people to think you're an intellectual."This rating may seem a bit overly patriotic and somewhat far - fetched, but once you get inside the main points of this amazing and breathtaking novel, I think you will not be reluctant to change your mind.As the title itself suggests, the work is basically written "on the edge of reason".
I read this years ago, having picked it up randomly at a small, independent bookstore, and I haven't seen it elsewhere.
I re-read it a few months ago, and it was as good as the first time.
It's not the most inspirational tale of all time, but if you're feeling incredibly frustrated by human behavior, this is great.
Too bad that society is just as silly now as it was eighty years ago.
Plus, eastern European writers never seem to get enough attention, so this is a great excuse to find out more about literature from that area of the world.
In this day and age like I've mentioned to many afore, we need to relearn the true definition of opinions and how everyone has a right to state them.
Sadly sometimes the mass-impressions given remain in the hearts of men based on societal perceptions however wayward.
b.) Is it moral for people to be crucified based on assumptions or ill-conceived misconceptions founded upon rumours and lies taking root?
c.) If suddenly you were ostracised for having spoken your mind, would you cower or remain true to what you've uttered?Indeed this is what most face when man's Tongue beds Gossip.
Krleža živi vječno.
Najteže mi pada što je ova oknjiga objavljena 1938, a apsolutno aktuelna danas. Ništa nismo naučili.
Seeing, the first part highly decorated with insults I was amused and confused am I reading diary, one of short stories, novel or what.
Since Croatian is my mother-language strong, melodic rhythm can be felt in long line of insults.
Story is about 52 year old lawyer who wakes up behind his mask in masked society during one ‘’high-society’’ dinner and with one opinion said aloud changes course of his life.
Seems like I’ll never get bored by reading criticism of society and views on world because I liked book.
Teško je govoriti o najboljem romanu, no u hrvatskoj književnosti još nisam pročitao nešto ovako dobro.
Krleža je definitivno pokazao zašto je najveći hrvatski pisac.
"Na rubu pameti" je roman o sukobu pojedinca i društva u kojem se kritizira država nakon 1.
Svj. rata i uhljeba koji su došli na vlast, s obzirom na to, ovaj roman aktualan je i danas.
Krleža daje prostora svome intelektu, kada progovara o univerzalnim društvenim problemima, upuštajući se u filozofiju.
Stigao je Krleža i progovoriti na kajkavštini jos jednom nakon balada Petrice Kerempuha.
Sve to i jos mnogo vise čine ovaj roman važnim djelom svjetske književnosti.
Krleža at his best: the long, voluptuous sentences, aphorisms about human stupidity, cool,foreign names of characters, and an almost dostoevskian sense of scandal
It mirrors some of my own more pessimistic thoughts about humanity but in a, what I found to be, humorous way.
One of those novels whose opening line is a classic: "At night, when I hold conversations with myself, I cannot logically justify my constant preoccupation with human folly." The book has several other such quotable lines.
To be logical in this world results in being labeled mad.
I thought of the Seven Samurai when I read the version of events as told by the townspeople versus the protagonist's depiction.
ne zivi isti dan 70 godina
the book is about a rich dude who speaks his mind at a richer and more publically recognised dudes house party about a crime the richer dude committed.
this was very similar to when classical violinist Joshua Bell appeared incognito on a subway platform in Washington, D.C. one cold winter morning and played his heart out for tips, a few months back; if you havent seen this check out the link and watch it through to the end because one lady out of the hundreds that must have passed him DOES recognise him and the quality of his music.
Žalosno je da se društvo u oslikano u ovom romanu objavljenom između dva svjetska ni najmanje nije promijenilo ni danas.
Gdje se dvolične osobe, lažni dobročinitelji, mecene i domoljubi veličaju kao moralne vertikale i suci društva.
Lik Domaćinskog i danas je odraz velikog broja "cilindraške" kaste u Hrvatskoj.
Neshvatljivo mi je da ovakvo djelo nije uvršteno kao obvezna lektira u srednjim školama.
ljudi kojima su živci toliko podrovani, te im je životni nagon podređen nadzoru mozga, ti postaju zgažene i popljuvane prnje, jer se nisu umjeli snaći u zvjerinjaku gdje vlada jedno jedino načelo, da je krv iz grkljana našeg bližnjeg najtoplija, pa prema tome i najhranjivija“.
All of my cynicism, my sarcasm, my superiority complexes, just like, all of the stuff that I feel towards most of my classmates is reflected in this book.I liked it, it's funny, it made me feel better about the world.
Krleza je slobodno mogao napisati potpuno istu knjigu u 2016, briljantan kao i uvijek, uz nekoliko mi manje dragih dijelova jos uvijek jako citljivo stivo. Za ljubitelje Krleze must read :)
*3.5!
We only get the stars because I'm under the impression that the translation is less than complete. Unfortunate as I found this to be a wonderful philosophical piece on perception, delusion, and humanity in general. Maybe one day i learn Croatian and read this as it was meant to be read. Doubt it though
A satire or two has come out in recent years that didn't make much sense at all to me, and On the Edge is a better book than other satires I've read recently.
And everything that happens to him after that is surreal but somewhat plausible, as social commentary.
This also works as part of the satire -- think of how many violent acts we would commit if we slapped all those saying something stupid and indefensible!
But it happened so much that the man became a charicature of himself, no less ridiculous than those around him.
So again, it works as a better satire and better social commentary than others I've seen.
Na FB mi je iskočilo da je danas 4 godine od kad sam ovo pročitao.
Dođoh na GR i što vidim- nemam osvrta.
Je li moguće?Najdraži je to Krležin tekst (roman, jasno) koji sam dosad 'konzumirao' (još uvijek čekaju Zastave:(( Puno mi je draži i bliži od razvikanog Filipa Latinovitza i Gospode Glembajevih.
Roman sam pročitao tek na Suvr.h.k.Zašto samo 4 zvijezdice?
Zbog posvemašnje nihilističke vizure kojoj nisam sklon i zaključka u kojem, iako se u njemu mahnito obrušava na apsurd društva i diže ruke od svega, što često zna biti na ovaj ili onaj način privlačno, nedostaje, za moj ukus, određeni metafizički ili Camusovski osjećaj (težnja k prevladavanju apsurda bez obzira na sve, Sizifovski).
It tells a story of a successful man, who becomes an outcast after publicly speaking his own mind and eventually starts questioning his own sanity after losing ties with his previous life as the consequence of his directness.Although, at times, Krleža goes into long monologues (which is one of his "writing traits"), this book is very interesting and easy to read.
Having been written in 1938., and having been the study of the society of the time period, it is incredible to see that nothing's actually changed in 75 years since the book was first published.

Con un estilo más ligero que otros libros suyos pero con el mismo pesimismo sobre la condición humana de siempre, Krleža lleva al absurdo la reacción de la sociedad ante las palabras de un abogado que decide decir la verdad sobre la conducta criminal del ciudadano ejemplar de la ciudad, que también es su jefe.
El autor croata deja detalles de reflexiones muy interesantes sobre el ser humano y la sociedad, y ya en 1938, año de la publicación del libro, deja ver las locuras que Europa padecía por entonces.
Además critica como el hombre, por un autodenominado bien mayor, elimina todo lo que hace hombre al ser humano.
The story sees a successful man in a somewhat warped and provincial society accidentally let out a few words based on integrity rather than on getting along with the crowd.
He then pays a steep price for sticking with his accidental choice and building on it rather than recanting.
The blend of directness and a sort of rude eloquence seems particularly European.
It contrasts sharply with North American books that seem written in the thousands by committees of editors for generic reading markets.
The book feels surprisingly contemporary despite being published nearly 80 years ago.
"On the Edge of Reason" encompasses both a satire to an ignorant provincial elite and a kafkaesque drama. The narrator and main character faces the hostility of a whole hypocrite society after denouncing the murderous personality of the rich entrepreneur Domacinski. The narrator is vilified and reduced to an enemy of the people as he faces slander and mock-trials.This book was written in 1930s but its themes and characters are common to 2010s - false moralists, ministers who embezzle while claiming patriotism, “centre-left” politicians who betray the proletariat, pedant intellectuals who believe in “Europe” utopias, a not-so-blind justice… Sounds familiar?
Graduating from the school of Kafka (with a hint of Chekhov, if I'm not mistaken), Miroslav Krleža's On the Edge of Reason is nevertheless its own deal. Exploring nonconformity with a cynical and absurd lens (indeed its similarities to l'Etranger could make Krleža a Croatian Camus, save that On the Edge of Reason preceded l'Etranger by four years, making Camus more like a French-Algerian Krleža), On the Edge of Reason is an excellent and recommendable read for cynics, absurdists, nonconformists, people with Croatian heritage, Croatia lovers and believers in the honest individual.
