https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22035.Fools_Die
This has been out since 1978 and still waiting for another book to move me like Fools Die did.
I've never liked a book where I loved the author more than the book I have been reading.
What makes Fools Die stand out among all the contemporary work, and what I truly like about this book, is that unlike its peers, Fools Die is not a defeatist book.
This remains my favorite book, a book that has touched me like no other, despite sometimes lacking in depth and character growth but that was the part of the theme.
A perennial love, this book always will be for me.This is Mario Puzo at his philosophical best.
حتى إذا التأمت جروح الطفولة فإنك لا تكبر على كونك غير حصين , ليس العمر حصنًا من الصدمات  , عبر حياة أحد أبطاله عرض الكاتب لتفاصيل الحياة المهمة وما قد يقابلنا تترك أبلغ الأثر على مسار حياتنا .أحداث كثيرة قد نتجاوزها وقد ننهار أمامها ولكن لنعلم  إن لكل امرئ عذرًا لانهياره من حيث الفضيلة .
فذلك ممل وهكذا يتنقل بنا الكاتب عبر الرواية معلمًا لنا بارعًا في تقديمه.من المواقف الطريفة عن أحد أبطاله (وكان يعمل كاتب مشهور) وكان عاشقًا للنساء مولع بهن , انه طلق زوجته لتطاولها على (سكون فيتزجيرالد ) ولم يطلقها لخيانتها إياه.فى المجمل عمل مميز ورائع : قدّم المشاعر الإنسانية بكل عمقها ودفئها وحرارتها بصورة خالية من الابتذال .
He watches his new friends and acquaintances fall victim to this world, and in the end finds a new appreciation for life and the importance of contentment.
This book is by no means a suspense thriller, but rather, an exploration into how those in pursuit of fame, fortune, and lucrative lifestyles cope with the challenges that this entails and how often these people end up bringing about their own demise.
I will acknowledge that this is a book that most people will either love or hate.
Me, I was completely sucked into the world that Puzo had drawn and was blown away.
This is a big, sloppy, at times poorly edited book.
Puzo swung for the fences with this book and 'tho the heavens may fall' he did whatever he wanted to.
I love these kinds of books.
Mailer had a few books like that (incidently check out Puzo's character Osano).
I love it.
Defiant pricks!This is the only time I can think of (possibly Fortunate Pilgrim fits this as well, possibly), where Puzo got up on a pulpit and preached.
I loved reading this.
It's a shame he didn't write more books like this, but what a document he left for us.
The book had lost focus and it kept dragging on and on.
I still think Mario Puzo is a phenomenal writer with a true talent for creating characters and making them real and likeable (even the worst crooks & sexists), and I'm looking forward to read more of his books.
I've read that it's the author's favorite and it's true that the book sounds very personal at times with its reflections on death, love, and writing, but maybe it's also why it also felt so self-indulgent and too long.
This is Puzo's finest hour....except no one really gets it. This book is about real people and fate and magic. The story goes in several directions but manages to come back home in a solid fashion. Everyone should give it a read, I've read it several times.
I've tried listening to this twice. The introduction is awful - long & boring about what sort of story this would be. I think it was supposed to be funny, but it was just grating. I remembered it well enough that I skipped through it quickly.The story itself starts off by introducing 4 or 5 people in a Las Vegas casino. There was a lot of detail without much happening. I didn't like any of them nor did I care enough about them to even dislike them. The 'action' picked up to some gambling &am
I've tried listening to this twice.
The introduction is awful - long & boring about what sort of story this would be.
I think it was supposed to be funny, but it was just grating.
I remembered it well enough that I skipped through it quickly.The story itself starts off by introducing 4 or 5 people in a Las Vegas casino.
There was a lot of detail without much happening.
I didn't like any of them nor did I care enough about them to even dislike them.
I decided that if they ever got around to doing anything interesting, I wouldn't care anyway.
Нямах нерви да го дочета това, а се мъчих, хич да не е. Комар, хазарт, игри на късмета, рулетки, покер, взе че ми писна и айде.
Много повече е израз на философията на Пузо, отколкото просто роман.
Поредното доказателство, че всяка книга си има точното време, в което да бъде позната, разбрана и обикната.
Лесно бих могла да сметна, че сме се разминали – а просто е трябвало време самата аз да порасна по някакъв начин.Книгата си има и своите недостатъци, разбира се.
Откровено съжалявах, че не мога да опонирам директно на някои от героите на Пузо – дотолкова не бях съгласна с това, което мислят.
Крият се отговори дори за въпросите на кротко девойче, обикновено студентче като мен, отдалечено на километри от света, рамкиран в книгата.
غالَبْت نفسي لقراءته , أملاً مني أن يحتوي علي شئ ما , أي شئ حتي وصلت إلي الصفحة ال 550 و هنا حقا لم أستطع أن أقرأ سطرا واحدا إضافيا فالكاتب هنا , ترك كل شئ في الحياة , و نهض ليدافع عن حرية تعدد الشركاء الجنسيين للمرأة, و يفعل ذلك بحماسة و انفعال شديدين حقا , و لا يري في ذلك أي مشكلة , سوي أنها ستكون أكثر عُرضة للأمراض التناسلية !
لعن الله من علّمك الكتابة رُغم أن ميعاد انتهاء الاستعارة لم يأتِ بعد , إلا أنني أصررت علي الذهاب إلي المكتبة و التخلص منه , و أخبرت أمينة المكتبة برأيي فيه , و رجوتها ألا تعرضه للاستعارة مرة أخري .
Definitely took some time to get in to, but once I was in I was hooked.I read several reviews of this book claiming that it was a departure from Puzo's normal style, and that it was unlike his masterpeice, The Godfather.
The story here follows big and powerful people, skipping cross-country through a dizzying melee of sex, money, power, fame, love, hatred, blame, denial, loss, and luck - and remains the whole while to be an ultimately human experience.
Even still, it came out as a deeply affecting story and a quality read, despite its flaws.
Puzo's The Godfather earned him the reputation of a writer that gives the reader a good thrill.
When you see a Puzo you expect a down and dirty tale of men's vices, violence and deeds done in the dark, especially those of the Mafia.
And my surprise and fascination grew as the story progressed.
I say it is a story about the workings of the mind of man who has a lot to say and the will to say it.
It gives me a whole new picture of Puzo as man and perhaps his aspirations as a writer.
Just an opinion but...I feel Mario Puzo was resting on his laurels from The Godfather when he wrote this book. It rambles on for over 5oo pages without going anywhere different, exciting or important. I really wanted to like it but by the end I was choking my way through it!
this book truly took me to another world and I was completely swept up into the world of gambling and literary critique occupied by the main character. another excellent piece by a fantastic author. highly recommend it
A big disappointment from someone like Mario Puzo.Seems a bit stretched and is quite boring in between.He has written better books so don't waste your time on this.An Average read!
This book surprised me as it wasn't a regular Puzo style writing.The book begins with the story of four people who became friends at a Las Vegas casino and plays all night, leading a wave of luck.
But throughout the book, the author makes you think the story is about these four friends, in end it turns out to be astory of all about Vegas and it's pretty outer facade which hides the real story behind the curtains.It's amazing how every time that I thought I knew the character entirely, everything changed.
In this one, the author tells a story about love.
It isn't exactly a love story.
It tells about different viewpoints of relationships and different kinds of relationships.
This isn't my typical book but I was immediately engrossed by this novel.
The author does a fantastic job of setting the mood.
We don't see the glam side of Vegas but we get a view of the melancholy side and it sets the tone for this novel.
This book explores all viewpoints and gets into some graphic detail.
The first half of the book was amazing and beautiful with its mood.
Contiene en sus casi 600 páginas ideas tan grandes que no cabrían en un simple prólogo.
De hecho la edición que leí, ni siquiera tenía una.Me sentí tentado de leerlo por varias razones, entre ellas:1.
La portada de mi libro El inicio engancha, pero luego se tarda unas 100 páginas en tomar forma y asentarse, una vez llegado a ese punto se hace imposible parar.La trama se desarrolla en varios lugares (esencialmente Las Vegas y Tokio), mantiene el nivel gracias a la maestría narrativa del autor que ahonda en la psique de cada uno de sus personajes de una manera excepcional, motivo por el cual tiendo a pensar, que hay mucho de autobiografía en este libro.
Just one thing - do not believe to the reviewer that is inevitably quoted on the back-page of this book saying that this book is better than the Godfather. It clearly is not, as you expect other type of books when reading Puzo. Still worth the try.
He's got a wife in New York, a hot bisexual mistress in Los Angeles and a doe-eyed geisha chick in Tokyo. And he's still not happy!I'll allow you to draw your own conclusions...
master puzo always teaches us what we cud never learn in school
رواية جميلة جدا لماريو بوزو فليس غريبا على من كتب الاب الروحى أروع فيلم فى التاريخ أن يكتب رواية مثل هذه
مضيعة للوقت...لا أعرف إن كانت الرداءة من الكاتب ام المترجم
Puzo again demonstrating why he is my favorite writer. Even with its pauses in the narrative, it keeps the development of the plot in suspense; to finally give a characteristic descenle in his work, direct, concise and brutal. 8/10
Fools Die was the first of his books that I read.
After all, what would a Godfather fan expect?The story revolved around a budding author and the events that occur in his life following a gambling streak in Las Vegas.
Although Puzo is an excellent writer, Fools Die was more of a drama than I am interested in reading.
Maybe if any of the last facts I mentioned were not a reality, I would have enjoyed this more.I still have a couple more of Puzo's books lying on my "to read" stack.
L'ho letto due volte; la prima quando avevo circa 16 anni e mi era piaciuto molto, mi aveva colpito parecchio per motivi che allora non riuscivo ad individuare, ma aveva lasciato il segno.
L'ho riletto qualche anno dopo, non ricordo di preciso quando, forse intorno ai 21, per cercare di svelare il mistero del mio amore verso questo libro.
Non so individuarlo, non so descriverlo.Per la seconda volta, mi si presenta la necessità di rileggerlo per capire, per trovare il messaggio che da qualche parte deve essere e che mi chiama.Considerando che ci sono libri che ho amato molto di più e visceralmente, che sia questo quello in grado di sconfiggere la mia pigrizia e farmi tornare su qualcosa di già letto è, forse, il mistero letterario della mia vita.
This was the second book I read by Mario Puzo.
I fell in love with this book and the charachters.
I tried to envision this as a movie the whole way through, and it was a good one.
I have read several times, not I can not find the darn thing.
It would be a nice friend to sit with for a few days.I was working a summer job after high school when an older guy and I were talking about books and such on the the job.
He suggested I read this and I was glad that I took him up on his suggestion.
i have watched The Godfather, never got a chance to read the novel though. before i started reading Fool's Die, i was unfamiliar with Puzo's writing style. it took me a while to get used to the style and to understand the characters. yeah the starting is slow and there are some ,you know, boring parts in between. but i enjoyed reading it most of the time. characters are nicely and some times beautifully sketched specially Osano's! yeah the ending could've been much better! looking forward to read The Godfather.
Written by a man, about men, in the 1970s...so it's not current, and it's not feminine, at all! But that's okay, I enjoy reading different types of authors, it keeps me on my toes and opens me up to worlds I wouldn't otherwise be aware of! It was hard to get into at first, but I'm glad I stuck with it... I can't think of anyone I'd recommend this book to, but interestingly enough, I learned my mother had read it years ago. That's probably why it ended up in my bookshelf, from hers.
Was so glad I read this, Puzo's most personal novel. Where as all his books have been historical fictions on topics like: the Pope, Italian Immigrants, Italian Countryside, American Mafia, I felt this was a historical fiction on himself. The main character is a square writer who maneuvers into getting a book published and a film made and falls into the world of Hollywood. The writing is still so addicting though his female characters are always less believable than their male counterparts.
