https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1415161.Biggles_Flies_East
I liked the first one I read, but really, this one takes the cake-very interesting, as well as intruiging, and I was at my wits end and edge of the seat several times as to how the main character was going to manage to outwit the clever German, Stehln..
Feeling something bigger than what he knows is in the wind, Biggles plays along and before you know it, the English secret service is calling on him to play the part and go to Palestine to find, if he can, the deadly German spy, Von Stalhyn.
Such a splendid read. Biggles, in this book, is sent to Palestine as an secret agent for the Germans and in turn for the British. I think this one intrigued me a little more than the first and there was even an interesting turn of events at the end.I liked Biggles attitude toward the Germans...he disliked them, but viewed their job just like his when he fought in France. This had a couple swear words in it, but all in all it is an appropriate book for boys full of adventure.
Here, Biggles and Algy are (it feels) on their own against the Germans in the Middle East.
The sheer joy of the h/c and friendship makes this one of my favourite Biggles stories.
One of my early favourites in the 'near miss' genre.Johns' was here writing still from what he knew -- his flying experience was all in WWI, and while he recycled much for the later stories, the post WWII stuff never really captures that fine edge of joie de vivre out on the edge of blood and dust and death.
Johns is not a great writer, but he had some great stories to tell.
B3, an astounding story of mistaken identity, and a double-spy.Several great opportunities sadly missed (visiting Mark Way, getting decorated with the Iron Cross)First encounter with spying, though not with Military Intelligence section-6...
Best of the best :)
A Ripping Yarn - and plotted like a Swiss watch.
Is Biggles still popular?
I think there are many good points about this tale.
First, Biggles likes fighting, so his unpleasant war service is to do something he hates: spying.
Third, there's some quite good descriptions and lots of interesting facts.
I thought it was so funny that history made Biggles feel uncomfortable, but the facts were slipped in anyway.It is limited in some ways - the treatment of the Arabs and the ethics of Europeans fighting over their land is about what you'd expect for the era.
Biggles wordt na zijn avonturen voor een paar dagen met verlof naar Londen gestuurd. Daar komt hij echter in contact met een nogal onguur persoon, die hem probeert te ronselen voor spionage werk voor de Duitsers..Weer zo'n verhaal waarin de goede Biggles strijdt tegen de slechte Duitsers, en met name tegen ene Erich von Stalhein.
Read this as a child whilst in hospital. W.E Johns, along with Anthony Buckeridge and American comis were my staple reading diet.
https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Easy to read adventures of the famous pilot.
Thrilling fast paced look at WW1 in middle east as witnessed by double agent Biggles. Dog fights, spies and double dealing.
the english are good, the germans bad, the french (presumably captious & untrustworthy), the arabs treacherous: the eternal verities. a lesser "greenmantle".
One of the first special Biggles books - one of the first that shows us more than just his combat abilities, and which sets up long term arcs for the entire series. One of my favourites.
Fast paced story with accurate settings
On of the most adventurous Biggles books. I almost bit the edges of my copy when Biggles was interacting with personel on his new base.
This was my favorite author as a young teenager.
Love Biggles books! Wholesome, full of adventure, thrills and spills, and never boring or ho hum!
Perhaps the most intriguing story of the Biggles series so far. The book has many wonderful twists and turns which keeps the reader guessing the whole time before a wonderful climax at the end
