https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/969275.Dragon_Ball_Vol_1
I guess a big part of the title's immense popular success is the fact that it knows its target audience: Dragon Ball Vol.1 reads as if it had been spontaneously cooked up by a bunch of dudes on the verge of adolescence and on a sugar rush who are into fighting games but kinda scared of girls.
Which may not sound very appealing but turns out just fine, as the story is refreshingly unapologetic about its lack of sophistication and never pretends to be anything but a fast-paced, light-hearted adventure with an enjoyable anything-goes attitude.
Now, if Toriyama could just get that old panty fetish under control...
But while I was aware of Dragon Ball as this massive franchise, I’d never actually read a Dragon Ball comic - until this week when I decided to remedy that and pick up the very first book.
In this first book (also subtitled The Monkey King) we’re introduced to Son Goku, a young boy who lives alone with his “grandpa” (a Dragon Ball) practicing martial arts in the wild, and living off the land.
Together, Son Goku and Bulma set out to collect all of the Dragon Balls and have adventures along the way!
Son Goku, by the way, is one of my favourite comic book characters ever!

The simple quest for seven mystical dragon balls serves as a loose framework for disparate adventures in a world whose characters and locales are a mish-mash of futuristic, mythological, prehistoric, and cinematic.The hero is a small monkey boy named Son Goku with a strong appetite for fighting.
He is discovered in the jungle wilderness by a girl using advanced technology to find the dragon balls, and they continue the quest together.
A small pig transforms himself into a monster in order to extort young girls from terrified villagers.
I loved the animated series and I was worried this would be like watching the cartoon, but it's very different and gives a lot of background into the characters which I never knew about. Some nice little stories and an ongoing theme throughout the story. I think I could enjoy reading the whole series.
My childhood pearl
Tenía que darle una oportunidad a Dragon Ball dado que:1) Es la biblia de los mangas/animes.2) La gran insistencia de mi hermano.3) Porque el señor Kishimoto (creador de mi anime favorito) es ultra fan y se inspiro de esta historia. Me gustó mucho, es muy cómica y los personajes son muy tiernos y agradables, salvo Bulma que es insoportable pero supongo que va a madurar. Goku es tan inocente que va a ser nostálgico verlo crecer.
Comienzo divertidísimo y casi impecable para una serie épica por donde se la mire. Lindos dibujos, excelente narrativa, chistes muy graciosos. Muchos de los elementos que harían esta serie el clásico que es ya están en este incipiente comienzo. Uno de los mejores araanques de serie que haya leído en manga en particular y en comics de donde sean en general.
It makes me a little bit sad that Toriyama has been ill, and unable to match this quality of art in his series Hunter X Hunter, which I enjoy very much.The fact that the original run started in 1984, in conjunction with the fact that this is supposed to be a comedic title for teen boys, explains most of the things that I didn't really enjoy.
Because of all those things that I don't like, though, I can see why others find this title such a riot.
The memories.. This took me straight back to my childhood where I used to watch the anime.I'm so glad I picked this up.
One of favourite manga's; great story and love the characters.
Virkelig underlig, men samtidig også enormt underholdende!
The story goes:- Goku is the main protagonist of the series and he is approached by a girl named Bulma who's in search for the dragon balls on their way they meet an old man who tries to gets seduced, Kame Sama.
There's a great fight but in the end Picollo is just defeated by Goku and gets mad.
The second half of the volumes namely Dragon Ball Z portrayes a race of saiyans who want to capture the earth.
Then theres the plo where Goku and Vegeta have kids and they can transform themselves into super saiyans form and get the whole power.
I was exposed to anime very young through my dad, but it wasn't until Dragonball and Dragonball Z that I found manga.
For that reason Dragonball and Dragonball Z will always be important and unique for me.Growing up I preferred DBZ, the villains looked cooler (although King Piccolo is a badass in Dragonball), and the anime was longer and full of more powerful characters.
But looking back now, Dragonball is closer to my heart, and I appreciate it more as a manga.
The battles seem more tactics oriented- rather than power level oriented as with DBZ.
Lembro-me de ver a série televisiva quando era mais pequena, na SIC, e quando vi a manga à venda mal quis acreditar.
Tem as mesmas piadas, as mesmas personagens, o mesmo desenho...
Não será a 8ª maravilha do mundo, mas entretém como os desenhos animados o fizeram em tempos.
:P Eu não me lembrava era que havia tanta piada com cuecas...
*revira os olhos*Vale o dinheiro gasto: Talvez não seja para toda a gente, mas vá lá, quem não cresceu maravilhado com as aventuras do Son Goku?
Goku is a nice little boy that grew up with his granpa in the woods.
But one day a giant monster killed granpa and Goku lives alone till he meets Buruma, a teenage girl from the city in the search for the Dragon Balls that will grant any wish of yours.
Seeing that Goku has a unatural strength Buruma asks for Gokus help and the adventures starts from here.The legendary Dragon Ball.
I remember staying up till late one summer holiday in Hong Kong with my cousins watching the anime on TV.
Nunca tinha visto este mangá à venda, até que o encontrei por acaso nas lojas Book It (mas também é possível encontrar nas lojas Continente), por um preço muito tentador.
Por sorte tinha o volume 1, como nunca li nenhum mangá e Drangon Ball faz parte da minha infância não pensei muito e trouxe-o.
Foi o melhor que fiz, assim que comecei a ler não mais o larguei, lê-se rápido e tem imensa piada!
Foi tão bom recordar a infância, não me lembro da história à volta das Dragon Ball, nem do Son Goku, mas lembro das imagens das personagens, foi tão bom recordar!
Quero ler todos os outros, mais que recomendado!

Besides one day a girl named Bulma drives by and as goku for a orange ball.
Goku is not stupid so she can't trick him.This book not much telling a lesson, but maybe it can be do not judge anyone by how they look.
Like how bulma tried to trick goku something for free.
Luckily Goku was not stupid.
Bulma thought Goku was just a regular kid.This book was actually really funny if you see it.
You can see some non important parts of the book and I am pretty sure you will laugh.

Nunca fui fan de Dragon Ball, no vi el anime ni nada, sí, lo sé, fui un niño raro, por lo mismo quise empezar con esta historia que varios si no todos, aman.¡Me encantó! Disfruté tanto esta historia y reí a más no poder, sin duda necesito los demás tomos.
أسطورة الشونين ❤طبعاً بإسثتناء سوبر الخايس🗿
أسطورة الشونين ❤️طبعاً بإسثتناء سوبر الخايس🗿
I've grown up watching DB and when I saw this on the bookstore I couldn't help getting it. As the anime, the manga is also funny and such an enjoyable read. The memories!
Even though my parents got extremely upset I was oblivious of it all and became an early fan of animation.While I worship and praise Sailor Moon and Dragon Ball Z, growing up as a kid I remember being addicted to Dragon Ball Z because they would play marathons of it on Cartoon Network and I always wanted the ability to become a Super Saiyan and looking back now I realized that whenever I was watching a major arc in this series, I would always missed the final two episodes and never get to see how it got resolved or the introduction to a new villain.
Dragon Ball is also an anime, but I prefer the manga because I don't like the voicing for the TV show, and the art is always better in the original when it comes to anime adaptations.
Things get interesting when he ends up going on a quest with a technological genius named Bulma to find the Dragon Balls, seven magical orbs that, when gathered together, can be used to call forth a powerful dragon that will grant you any wish.
Though there is alot completely pointless fighting and the humor can be pretty crude sometimes, that's shonen manga for you.
Akira Toriyaman megasuositun Dragon Ball -sarjakuvan ensimmäinen osa "Lohikäärmekuulien arvoitus" (Sangatsu Manga, 2003) herätti ilmestyessään aika lailla negatiivista huomiota, kun iltapäivälehdistö ja tietyt julkisorganisaatiot keksivät sen sisältävän viitteitä pedofiliaan.Seksiin ja sukupuolisuuteen liittyvää huumoria onkin mukana melko paljon, ja tavallaan ymmärrän moraalinvartijoiden tuohtumuksen, sillä länsimaisesta lukijasta saattavat alushousujen vilauttamiset ja muut tuntua arveluttavalta materiaalilta.
Eri puolille maailmaa hajonneet kuulat on kerättävä yhteen, jonka jälkeen niiden avulla voi toteuttaa minkä tahansa toiveen.Seikkailun, kummallisten henkilöhahmojen, pöhkön huumorin (vai mitä sanotte karkeista, jotka saavat muotoaan muuttavan porsaan ripuloimaan joka kerta kun joku sanoo "pii pii") ja suorastaan naurettavan mielikuvituksellisten juonenkäänteiden eteenpäin kuljettama sarjakuva on kuitenkin yllättävän mukaansatempaava.Toriyama käyttää leikkiä laskiessaan myös metasarjakuvan keinoja; välillä hahmot tiedostavat olevansa sarjakuvassa.
It’s about a 14 year old boy named Goku, who is on a journey to find Dragon Balls.
Once your wish is complete, all the Dragon Balls go to somewhere random, and you have to use a Dragon Radar to find them.
One of my favorite parts in the book were when Goku thought Bulma and her car were a monster.
I think a lot of people would find these books very funny because Goku doesn’t know a lot of things, he’s kinda just dumb.
The book isn’t confusing, for me at least, I don’t know about other people.
So forgive me now if I go on a tangent.ALRIGHT, so this book is about a young boy named Goku(Kakarot) who lives alone in the forest where he was raised by his grandpa Gohan, who is dead now-rest his fictional soul in peace.
Now, once upon a random day, this blue haired extremely desperate 16 year old girl named Bulma is driving around the forest in search of DRAGON BALLS.
Goku's grown up with the 4 star dragon ball in his home, believing it held the spirit of his grandpa Gohan in it.
aku sudah beli dua boxset Dragon Ball (jilid 1-20) di sale Gramedia, tapi sampai sekarang tidak kubaca ulang karena aku masih mencari lanjutannya (jilid 21-42).
Dan jarang juga ada lapak buku bekas yang mau jual separo bagian akhir.
Yang beda cuma tampilan coverna -.-Akhirnya aku memilih untuk beli ulang cetul serial ini.
Kemungkinan kalau cetulnya sudah sampai jilid 20, aku baru akan akan melepas dua boxset yang kupunya.Catatan:Setelah baca ulang, dipikir-pikir bagian awal serial ini selain nama tokoh dan penampilannya banyak pinjam dari cerita Journey to the West, banyak pula adegan fanservice buat pembaca.
Dan, er, ada halaman-halaman yang hilang karena kena sensor nih.
The other biggest things to me at the time were Pokemon and TMNT.
I still love Pokemon, but those original games can be almost painful now, and the original Turtles cartoon is pretty terrible, though the 2003 version is greatThat point aside, this is an excellent introduction volume, though I suppose it was supposed to be at least half of the whole series at the time.
The art is stunning and obliterates its anime counterpart, the humor is great, though a little too perverse at times, but it's a different culture and I'd heard about it beforehand.
