https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1294378.Elsie_Piddock_Skips_in_Her_Sleep
Elsie Piddock is a born skipper.
she skips rope as never so.
Even the fairies, who are fond of skipping themselves, take notice.
When a greedy landowner threatens to build factories on the cherished hill where generations of skippers have swished and tapped beneath the new moon, Elsie puts her skipping skills to work to save the day.
In the Strong Skip, [Elsie Piddock] went right under the earth, as a diver goes under the sea, and the rabbits, whose burrows she had disturbed, handed her up again.
And this is just lovely.A fairy tale, this is probably going to be picked up more by girls (skipping, fairies), but really, I think boys might enjoy this one too.
It is many years later when her little village's land is in danger from a greedy Lord that Elsie has a chance to shine.This is a perfect little bedtime tale (over one or two nights), magical and wistful, with a heroine children will enjoy - a girl and an old woman who defies the rich folk.
The cover (and title) will probably put off most male readers (flowers, a girl skipping), but I would love to see boys listening to this - it would be great for classroom reading in primary schools.
A 1001 CBYMRBYGU. Elsie Piddock is the most amazing skipper ever. Elsie can do the Strong Skip. Elsie can do the Long Skip. Elsie can do the Skip All Together. Elsie is so good she gets tutored by the fairies. And these skipping skills can come in handy when a bad guy comes to town….A modern tall tale.“In the Sly Skip not a fairy could catch her, or know where she would skip to next; so artful was she, that she could skip through the lattice of a skeleton leaf, and never break it.”
Wonderful, magical-just as I remembered. Only now, as an older reader, it struck me as chilling, too- the sleeping , dreaming of childhood becomes the sleeping, slipping into old age & death.
Wonderful.
Fantastical story for children.
Farjeon, Eleanor Elsie Piddock Skips in Her Sleep, illustrated by Charlotte Voake.
9780763690557Elsie Piddock is a born rope-skipper, and with the local fairies' help she becomes even better.
But when a local lord threatens the town, there is only one person who can help: Elsie Piddock, skipping champion.This is a charming story that grew on me the more I read.
With its nostalgic feel and slow-burning plot, I think it would appeal more to adults than to children, and is unlikely to find a huge audience in a school classroom or library.
Sydney G., K-6 Library Media Specialisthttps://kissthebook.blogspot.com/2018...
This is a lovely story well-suited for bedtime storytelling. Elsie is a naturally at skipping rope. She is so proficient at skipping that Elsie draws the attention of the fairies, who teach her incredible tricks. But when Elsie grows up, she puts aside her childhood toys, including her jump rope. When the neighborhood playground is threatened by a greedy developer, Elsie dusts off her special skipping skills and saves the day.Voake’s illustrations are a perfect complement to the magical story. This volume will make a great gift for those readers who enjoy nostalgia, fairies, or Farjeon’s other fairy tales.
I'll round up my 3 1/2 stars to 4 because I love to skip rope with my students, and because I am thinking a snackalong of almond roca is in order. And I can't resist a readaloud that will allow me to use a British accent. This book will immerse the reader in fairy-filled rural England of a century ago. A bit on the longish side, the illustrations update this Eleanor Farjeon tale for today's audience. Written at a 5th grade level with beautiful language and vocabulary, but very appropriate for less mature readers.
This is the sweetest book! I grabbed it just by chance at the library and I'm so happy I did. I read it aloud to my 3.5 year old daughter a little at a time before bed each night this week and we both just fell in love with the story. There's candy, skipping rope, fairies and a triumph of good over greed. Beautiful, delightful book which we plan to add to our personal collection.
This was a quick and delightful read. I read it in an hour. An older story repackaged with wonderful illustration for a new generation. I loved it. I light sweet magical tale as relevant today as it ever was.
Task: #49 - A book from someone else's bookshelf - 4/5 stars
A charming fairy tale.
The original text was published in 1937, and Charlotte Voake brings the story to life with beautiful, delicate illustrations of the families of Mount Caburn, as well as the Trump-like Lord who wishes to build a wall around the footpaths, and erect one of his factories on the sacred hilltop without any real legal precedence so to do.
This book is a wonderful rally cry to keep on your shelves and read to your children as the age-old tradition of greed and corruption rears its ugly head on the world stage once more.
This is an interesting little story that probably would not have had the impact on me given a different political/environmental climate. However, this "fairytale" is perfect to read to children about the importance of community and its specific customs and fighting for what is best for our children and future generations.
Author: Eleanor FarjeonIllustrator: Charlotte VoakeFirst Published: 1937, this edition 2016Length: 83 pagesSetting: Contemporary, Mount CaburnA classic I picked up for my niece for Christmas, and snuck a read beforehand.A sweet story with all the hallmarks of a fairy tale, including fairies and outrageous acts.Age:Read aloud - 5+Read yourself - 8+References:Eleanor Farjeon on w’pedia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eleanor...(ISBN 9781406366518)-CR-
Elsie Piddock is the best skipper her little town has ever seen, so good that even the fairies (who love to skip rope) come to teach her. Years later, Elsie uses her remarkable skill to save her town from a greedy Lord. This charming fairy tale, originally written in 1937, is every bit as appealing today. It's impossible not to root for Elsie against overwhelming odds, and like in the best fairy tales she uses her wits and skill (with a bit of fairy magic) to overcome evil. I think we all enjoy stories where justice prevails!
I've read all I could find of Farjeon's works, and this is still my favorite. It has everything I love in Farjeon: the magic in ordinary things, a sense that art is more important than money. All threading through Farjeon's playful way with words and sounds: Farjeon really needs to be read aloud.
During my senior year in college I was privileged to have Ruth Hill Viguers as my professor for a course in children's literature. She was a wonderful story teller and we all sat on the edge of our chairs as she told us one day of Elsie Piddock. It was one of the moments in my college education that I'll never forget.
Lovely tale of a natural born rope skipper, trained by a fairy who returns to the hill of her childhood to skip for the good of her community when it is threatened by a greedy industrialist. I would love to see more rope skipping as a form of protest.Can't wait to read this one with my daughter who is a newly minted skipper and believes in fairies.
Elsie Piddock skips when awake, she skips when she's asleep, with faeries, other children or just by herself. When grown up, she must put away her childish toys and fantasies, but when the Glynde needed her the most, Elsie once again picks up her jump rope. Fantastic story for children, especially those who love, or even loved, to skip.
Farjeon is a welcome memory from my own childhood; her books are somewhat out of fashion these hectic days, but they are so worth looking into again! For the parent who wants her child to be entertained by great writing and a true touch of what matters to a child, this is the book for you! I love it.
I've loved this story since I was 9. It has magic, determination, nature against evil and lollipops. In Grade 2, I wrote a book report about it and I've kept that report for years, to remind me of the name, hoping to get my very own copy. Finally, when my daughter was about 10, I found it had been re-released and throroughly enjoyed reading it to her... and on my own a few times.
I really enjoyed this fairy tale, and I suspect it's based on some local legend from somewhere (if not Glynde itself). The pictures are exquisite and as delicate as a faerie and help give the book its 4-stars.
This is an environmental tale that dates back to the industrial revolution. There is a really nice recording of it put out by a company called Gentle Wind audio books, which was my first introduction to Elsie Piddock. http://www.gentlewind.com/gw1025.htm Highly recommended.
This is a beautiful story about fairies, jumping rope, and growing old. It's long, but Miss Muffet loved hearing it read aloud as much as I loved reading. The artwork also perfectly suits the story, which is equal parts wistful and humorous.
A sweet story about skipping rope, fairies, and the power of the little guy to stand up for open spaces. Found this on my bookshelf, read it in one gulp. Not a forever book, not for me, but sweet and worth it if you like this kind of tale.
A little snippet of a book about a girl who loves to skip. She is taught amazing skipping stunts by the fairies, and goes on to put them to good use to help save her village.
This was a fun read!!
Charming story. Very British (which of course I love), and a wonderful, longer "picture book" to share with elementary aged children.
