https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/597222.Valmouth_and_Other_Novels
A litany of the principal characters may give you a notion of Firbank's approach to literature: the centenarian Eulalia Hurstpierpoint, devoted to faith, flagellation, and spiked garters; Mrs Elizabeth/Lizzie/Betty Thoroughfare, Eulalia's pompous companion; ffines, the butler; Thetis Tooke, a sweet young thing hoping to catch Mrs Thoroughfare's son, Dick; Madam Yajñavalkya, an Indian masseuse, mystic, and confidante; and Lady Parvula de Panzoust, who in spite of her age has kept her lovelight blazing.
If you enjoy Thomas Pynchon, early Aldous Huxley, Evelyn Waugh's social satires, or the decadent literature of the 1890s, you may find parts of Valmouth to be among the most curious and hilarious pieces of writing you've come across in a long time.PS: this book gets an extra star for its peculiar and pleasant aftertaste.
Strange tales of snobbery and decadence, a sort of cross between EF Benson and JK Huysmans.Highly wrought, mannered with a wicked use of conversational asides to suggest matters im- and a-moral.Stylised, artificial, self-regarding, mocking and intelligent, reminiscent at times of the early novels of Aldous Huxley.Mixed in with the worship of beauty for beauty's sake there is a gentle appreciation of the foibles of humankind but the relentless cleverness and elaborate descriptions do become wearying, especially without a working knowledge of High Catholic ritual.
Tried to read Valmouth having 'discovered' the author in Christopher Fowler's The Book of Forgotten Authors but just could not get on with it at all - the character names were ludicrous and I couldn't connect with them at all and the dialogue was the worst I have ever read, almost nonsensical. I just felt I have more books that I really want to read rather than persevere with something I wasn't enjoying at all. I rarely give up on a book but this wasn't worth the effort for me - unfinished so no rating.
This book is nuts, hysterical, occasionally nonsensical, fragmented, ridiculous, fun, awful, stupid, bright, clever. Something original surely. Successful? That's another question. But certainly it's decadent!
Mul on tunne, et olen seda juba varem ka korra teinud.
Aga üldse ei mäleta sisu.Loomingu raamatukogu, 1999/35-36Igatahes.
Väga siivutu.
Siivutu on tegelikult vale sõna.
Mitte otseselt.
Aga vanad tädid noolivad noori poisse ja tüdrukuid.
Lesbid on esindatud, geyd vist mitte aga ei saagi ju kui tegelased enamasti vanamutid.
Huvitav, eriti oma aja kohta, 20.
See kuidas ta räägib ja kirjutab, mul enamasti puudub taustainfo tema tegelaste kohta.
Siin raamatus on samamoodi, nagu kuulakski pealt kellegi vestlust.
Päris vestlus.Seda raamatut ongi ehk hea aeg-ajalt niimoodi ruttu lugeda.
Nagu kuulaksid nende vanadaamide vestlust peal seal pimedas inglise häärberis.
His phonetic rendering of black speech is no cruder than Zora Neale Hurston's and his Caribbean island characters seem at times to have refreshing candor and lack of pretense compared to their colonialist counterparts.
His writing is baroque, always choosing the arcane word where any synonym is possible, dense with mythological allusion and his characters converse in a spiteful campy style - although not really a modernist in the Joyce/Pound/Eliot et al mode, his writing is reminiscent of Djuna Barnes at times.
I ordered this book because I read The Folding Star by Alan Hollinghurst.
In The Folding Star, he references Ronald Firbank quite a bit.
I didn't know anything about Firbank, so I ordered the book.
It's difficult at times to understand what was happening and I would have to re-read sections (especially when I got sleepy).
Another difficulty is reading these works from a modern perspective, especially "Sorrow in Sunlight" which uses the "N" word quite liberally.
Firbank is a central part of The Folding Star, and Hollinghurst even uses some of the vocabulary from Firbank.
This review applies to Valmouth only, though since it is reckoned to be his best work then I dread to think what the rest are like. It's a profoundly silly, offensive work by an author who seemed to think he was being daring and innovative by using words wrongly and inventing what are presumably intended as comic names. Don't bother with it.
Couldn't really get into it. Apparently W.H. Auden said he wouldn't want to meet anyone who didn't love Firbank; but what the hell.
A small seaside spa’s elderly inhabitants cope with the integration of black culture.
