https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27401883-when-i-m-gone
Emily Bleeker's new novel, 'When I'm Gone,' is about Natalie Richardson.
Yes, they loved Natalie dearly, but this new information is making it hard to believe that Natalie was the person that they all felt they knew.
'When I'm Gone,' is one of those books that's so well written and engaging that you start to read it and suddenly you're 200+ pages in.
I also thoroughly enjoyed the fact that I didn't always know whether to like the characters a lot.
What did I think?: This isn't a book that's like a lot of things I read.
However, it wasn't the depressing tearjerker that I had imagined it would be.Luke Richardson has just buried his wife, Natalie.
Little by little the truth comes out, causing Luke to question everything he thought he knew about the woman he loved.
Appearances can be deceiving and everything was not as it seemed on the surface.Meanwhile, Luke's relationship with Natalie's best friend, Annie, takes on a life of it's own.
As much as I enjoyed the love story, this one was all about figuring out Natalie's secret for me.All in all, I thought this was a great story.
Dear Luke, I should have stopped reading this book when I realized the characters weren't fully developed, and the plot belonged on Lifetime television, and not even as one of the movies they run in prime time, but one they save for the midnight hour when even the hardcore lifetime movie fans are asleep.
But, wait, that's been done before (P.S. I Love You, anyone?- Oh man, this is going to actually be made into a Lifetime movie, right?) and not that long ago it was done.
Poorly developed characters, outlandish plot.
"Are you afraid of death, or are you afraid of leaving your family?"......the above sentence brought tears to my eyes ...( I took in the magnitude of the question).
My very close friend Barbara, died of Cancer, 26 years ago.
Marty, her husband, was left as a single father to raise 3 young kids.
Single fathers with 3 small kids is still rare in my book.
This story took me back to old memories - my conversations with Barbara the day before she died.
How does a man who just lost the love of his life have time to grieve, with 3 small kids needing him?
Natalie uses the letters to fess up about her struggles with treatment, her imminent death, nudges him to engage the kids, reminisces about their relationship and pushes him to move on and live his life without her.
If Luke and Annie's relationship had felt more organic maybe I would have had an easier time accepting it.
(hide spoiler)]What at first came off as a heartfelt story about life after losing someone morphed into something entirely different by the end.
I felt kind of duped in regards to Natalie and Luke’s relationship.
Last year I read Wreckage by Emily Bleeker, which I quite liked, so I was willing to give When I'm Gone a try.
At the beginning of the book, Luke's wife Nathalie dies of cancer, leaving him with three children and a few secrets to uncover.
What spoiled the book for me somewhat was that Bleeker seemed to try to pack too much into the story.
It turns out that Luke, Nathalie, Annie and Jessie all have a lot of complicated baggage, and after a while it felt like too much.
In Wreckage, Bleeker did a good job pulling together a complicated plot.
But then comes a letter through his letterbox, its a letter from his dead wife.I began to think she had got someone to post this after her death.But more arrive as time goes on and its his wife definitely writing to him.
No, he finds them quite comforting until as time goes on Will his son finds something that makes Luke think unbelievable things and ideas.I cannot tell you too much in fear of giving much away.But the search for the truth takes him back down dark paths of his past he didn't want to remember so we get more and more of an incite to Luke's life growing up.The story ends unexpectedly.
Good god, the only thing missing in this book was a natural disaster. I didn't enjoy it much. Too much on the go. Too many coincidences. Too much flowery writing.
The end result is like reading an outline: unfinished, easy to spot (not to mention ridiculous) plot twists, & a depth that is less than a plastic kiddie pool.The death of a spouse is story enough, yet in all too many novels, authors seem apt to toss in convoluted plot devices that feel so phony, it's impossible to care about what's unfolding.
The fact that I got to read a three year old speak far more than characters who could have added some actual value?
There's a lack of maturity & inauthenticity that's impossible to overlook.END SPOILERSI can see opportunities for multiple novels with a high quality, dedicated storyline.
I had a hard time putting it down!Natalie Richardson passed away after a year-long battle with cancer and her husband Luke is now faced with the daunting task of raising their three children alone while they all deal with immense grief.
Natalie's letters to Luke are so heartbreaking, especially the ones dealing with her hopes and fears after her diagnosis.
I was far more interested in the mystery behind the letters than the growing romantic tension between Luke and Natalie's best friend Annie, no matter how much the children viewed her as a second mom.
I especially enjoyed the parts dealing with grief, the cancer diagnosis and Natalie's secret.
Audio book narrated by Dan John Miller 9h 58 min I am over it!
The whole dead wife leaving letters to her husband and trying to manage things beyond the grave like some type of master puppeteer!
Recently widowed, father of three Luke relies on his friends and the letters of his dead wife, Natalie.
Secrets about Natalie's life before Luke, the suspected domestic violence between Natalie's best friend, Annie and her husband Brian, Luke getting back into dating, Luke 's complicated past with his own parent.
We all come with our own baggage and Luke certainly has quite a bit to juggle in this book.
Many thanks to NetGalley and Lake Union Publishing for making it available.How well do we really know the people we love, those we've built a life with?If you ask Luke that question about his wife, Natalie, he'd say he knows her better than everyone.
And together they've built a family, with three wonderful, loving children.But when Natalie dies of cancer, it throws Luke for a total loop.
He doesn't realize just how much he comes to depend on the letters, even as Natalie forces him outside his comfort zone, to do things he never would have expected he'd be able to do.But the more he reads them, the more the questions start to arise.
I was lucky enough to read an advance reader's copy of this book. I loved Emily's first book, WRECKAGE, and this book was great too. Emily has an ability to unwind a mystery like a coil so that you're always guessing what's going to happen. In WHEN I'M GONE, she does this inside what could otherwise be a familiar plot: a woman's untimely death brings certain secrets to life. Her twist is that the departed wife is actually stage managing what gets revealed and when, and the final twist will leave you touched and surprised. Highly recommend.
This was a nice read. It required allot of patience to read (don't most books?). At points I felt uncomfortable with the way I thought the plot was heading, but then I was easily warmed and intrigued with the story as it unfolded. Once you make it through to the end, I would ask a simple question. Why wouldn't you like this book?
More of a Lifetime movie than a novel. I kind of hate myself for finishing it.
یکبار شروعش کردم. شاید تا صفحه ده! بعد گریه ام گرفت چون عجیب یاد مامان افتاده بودم!پریروز دوباره شروع کردم به خواندن و دیشب تمام شد و وای که چه داستان قشنگی!
I honestly just kept swiping the screen hoping, praying there were more pages, there's no way the book ended the way it did.This book begins with Luke and his three children returning home from his wife's funeral.
I continued reading and I am glad I did.Although the letters are holding Luke together they begin to destroy him, Natalie had secrets and these secrets are making Luke question their entire lives together.As the book goes on, the secrets are revealed and pieces are put together.
I envied Natalie being dead because that means that she won't have to read this terrible book. The premise was enticing but be advised that the author grows bored with it and barely uses it after the first half of the book turning instead to story lines from a bad soap-opera. Poorly plotted, poorly written, poorly edited, this was not even worth the $1.99 I paid. And if you still think it sounds good, consider this line: "he was watching her defenses go up like homeowners boarding up their windows before a hurricane." Yeesh!
Emily Bleeker  returns following her debut,  Wreckage  with another bittersweet story WHEN I'M GONE, domestic suspense; human emotions, family, and secrets between a husband and wife.As the book opens  Luke Richardson is returning to his suburban Michigan home, with his children after Natalie’s funeral.
They have been married for sixteen years and now he is faced with raising the three children (Will, May, Clayton) on his own.He finds a letter: (s) To Luke.
I think letters are a special touch and a loving gesture.On a personal note:  Cancer is such a brutal disease.
Natalie arranged for Luke to receive letters after her death in no particular pattern.
(view spoiler)[Natalie's best friend, who made a deathbed promise to look after Luke and the kids, is in an abusive relationship with her policeman husband.
And my aggravation reached a breaking point when he received yet another letter and after waiting a full day (because he was too angry to read it at first), he sat down to read it, got through the first three pages, and...
He wouldn't read any further." At this point, it IS drawing it out, and it's too much.It's a well written book, but there are so many coincidences, and I think there are just too many things going on.
بین دو یا سه ستاره موندم!قرار بود داستان جنایی باشه؟عاشقانه باشه؟یا چی؟به طور کلی فقط اگر مثل من در حال حاضر خیلی بیکارید و کتاب دیگه ای در دسترستون نیست بخونیدش.
After burying his wife, Luke Richardson returns home, to find a letter with his name written in wife’s familiar handwriting waiting for him.
As he prepares to begin raising their 3 children on his own his wife’s letter is the first of many that keep showing up and they become an obsession with him.
As more and more letters appear and he starts to uncover long kept secrets he begins to learn things about his wife that make him question the woman he thought he had known so well.
The letters try to give him advice on raising the children and living a life that does not include Natalie.

The premise of the book reminded me of P.S. I Love You. And that along with the positive reviews made me want read it.I'm in the minority here but really, this was bad.The characters are one dimensional.
There's no character development whatsoever.
And the little boy Clayton, his character was completely unrealistic.
The plot is good.
There are some mysteries and secrets that could have worked for this type of story if it wouldn't have been so melodramatic.
This book deals with several important and sensitive topics that should have made the story deep and moving.
So, I guess this could have been good.
A light read that even if not memorable, was exactly what I needed after I nearly fell in a reading slump.
It was quite melodramatic at times, the main character even if believable for most parts, comes out sometimes as extremely winy which of course, leads to more drama.
There’s also a mystery but unfortunately I didn’t find it engaging at all because I saw the reveal coming from miles away.
When I’m Gone, even if not coming with anything new for the genre, was a relaxing and heart-warming read, perfect to binge-read on a rainy day.
Luck Richardson lost his wife to cancer and now has to care for his 3 children on his own.On the day
Quando si viene colpiti da una malattia come il cancro ogni cosa assume un aspetto diverso, ogni momento, ogni attimo è fondamentale per prendere ancora un piccolo pezzo di vita, per viverlo e ricordarlo in eterno.La verità è che non si è mai pronti abbastanza per lasciarsi andare, per lasciare andare le persone care, ci si aggrappa ai brevi istanti rimanenti.Ed è ciò che succede a Natalie, donna, moglie e madre di tre bellissimi bambini, troppo piccoli per lasciare andare la loro madre e per perdere per sempre il suo affetto.
I enjoyed this book.
I debated whether to give it 3.5 or 4 stars because the beginning was a little slow but I ended up going with 4 stars because the pace quickened and I liked the ending.
He is raising his daughter and two sons alone when he starts to get letters from his late wife Natalie.
I really liked this premise and I thought it was executed well.
It turns out Natalie had some secrets which I won't spoil.
I'm glad to have read this book and will look for more from this author.
Soon after, blue envelopes with letters handwritten by his wife, Natalie, start showing up at his house with no indication of who's sending them.
She started writing them on the first day of her cancer treatment a year ago and in them she reveals aspects of her life that Luke was unaware of.
From Natalie's letters we also see her side, what she felt and went through while battling a disease that would ultimately take her life, and it felt honest.And I wished I could say I loved it, but I'd be lying.
I was a little distracted reading this book and that my have impacted my rating a little.
While the book is interesting, I found the read a little cliched and over dramatic at times.
Some parts were not necessary to the book and in the end, everything was tied up in this really nice fancy, happy ending bow.
Not that I have a problem with happy endings- it was just a little bit too happy/cliche for me.
Other than that, the writing was really good, the characters were easy to digest and so was the plot.
All in all a nice summer/beach read.
