https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/443765.Conan_of_Cimmeria
Probably one of my all time favorite book covers. This cover is pure Conan. Just look at him battling 2 frost giants! awesome. This was the first Conan book I ever read. I instantly became a fan of Robert E Howard and this character. I probably spent endless hours redrawing this cover and dreaming of battling giants with swords and axes through most of my early teens ( 12 - 15). I quickly went to the library and checked out all the other books in the series.
The more I read the Conan series, the more I realize the genius of Robert Howard. Despite the pulp fiction nature of the stories, he vividly portrays the exploits of a seemingly simple yet nuanced character in a way few authors have achieved. It's no wonder Conan remains a household name and the father of so many fantasy tropes til this very day!
Sprague de Camp and Lin Carter kick things off by having Conan get stuck to a magnet on which “a monster of living jelly” is called forth by the flute of a scheming Duke (he’s either a Duke, or his name is Duke- I really wasn’t sure).The Bloodstained GodA Howard and de Camp story that bears a lot of similarities to The City of Skulls, which closed out Book 1.
Say what you will, Howard was a master craftsman at his trade: story telling. I find his fantastical world engaging and entertaining. Howard's Conan isn't going to solve any philosophical questions; he just takes you for a ride.
Conan, the meta-physician:from the story, "Queen of the Black Coast"Belit, the pirate queen and Conan's lover, asks, "'Conan, do you fear the gods?'"'I would not tread on their shadow,' answered the barbarian conservatively.
Mitra of the Hyborians must be a strong god, because his people have builded their cities over the world.
What else shall men ask of the gods?'"'But what of the worlds beyond the river of death?' she persisted."'There is no hope here or hereafter in the cult of my people,' answered Conan.
Howard, who wrote the original Conan stories in the 1930s, committed suicide at age 30.
Robert E Howard rocked hard.The godfather of sword and sorcery.No crap. No bullshit. If you like Feist, Goodkind, Martin or any thing like that.Then you might not like anything by Howard.In other words.No wussies!
Typical Conan - monsters, sorcery, women, treasure, swordfights...gotta love it!
These books are difficult to get next to because of the additions by L. Sprague de Camp and Lin Carter. What they were attempting was fun and worthwhile but just not as good as the muscular dynamism of Howard's prose. Why four stars then? Because there are three of Howard's stories in here and they are still wonderful. I gave this book four stars on the strength of Queen of the Black Coast and The Frost Giant's Daughter alone.
This is one of the Lancer Conans. Some of you will hate them because they are not only NOT the pure Howard stories, but they also include stories made from notes and pastiches by other authors. I enjoyed them, maybe not so much as the pure Howard stories, but they are good. I don't have all of them anymore and they are hard to find...if you can find them they are worth a try. Wish someone would reissue them.
The jewel in the crown of this collection is most definitely "Queen of the Black Coast". The rest are ok and of varying quality.
Since this collection of stories finds Conan adventuring in the Black Kingdoms, such unfortunate references are more pervasive than usual and detracted from the pleasure of the reading experience.
In addition, most of these stories are of the monster-of-the-week type, which loses interest even when well written.
As usual, self-appointed collaborators Lin Carter and L.
“Queen of the Black Coast” is the clear highlight, although the short scene in which a voluptuous pirate queen woos Conan with the Mating Dance of Belit belongs on my list of most unintentionally funny passages.
From 5th to 8th grade, I was deeply involved in Howard's Conan series. I traded 'em away for comics pretty much immediately after reading each, but found one at a flea market a year or so ago. Now I am deeply disturbed that I was weaned on them--but they are still cool. If you enjoyed the Conan experience, you might want to rent  The Whole Wide World  which tells the story of the young Robert Howard.
Hard to beat the original Conan. The character never dies... Conan is forever.
The continuing adventures of Robert Howard's legendary character Conan the Barbarian, as presented by messrs.
Conan of Cimmeria features seven Conan short stories, but only three of them are among Howard's original 21.
The other four are all either pastiches by DeCamp and Carter, or Howard stories originally featuring lesser-known characters that DeCamp took and re-wrote as Conan stories.
This book, as well as all others in the DeCamp/Carter paperback series, are long out of print, but fortunately we can now get our hands on the true and unedited Robert Howard originals.
Still 3 stars.
Better than the first Conan.
Little more nuanced, stories longer, settings more varied.
As I mentioned in my review of the first book, the writing is not nearly as bad as I feared it would be and the pre-history Pangea truly is a stroke of genius.
I liked the "Queen of the Black Coast", "The Castle of Terror", and "The Snout in the Dark".
I wish "Queen of the Black Coast" had been longer, because it involved Conan in a more serious relationship and a deeper look at his wider abilities and growth of his legend.
Solid 3.5 stars again.
Conan with his incredible physical ability, natural leadership, and primitive goodness stalks across a vividly painted world, meeting conniving nobles, ancient evils, and sparsely clad women. Another book from the cache in grandpa's attic that I recently reread - I am coming to see more clearly where the warps in my world view appeared.
In the end the book jackets were always so much better than the stories inside. But then Frank Frazetta is pretty much the father of modern Fantasy art and confessed that he rarely read the books, only a quick summary and then ran with it.
Yeah, this is one of the classics of early fantasy. Who doesn't love stories about barbarians chasing the ice giant's daughter through the snow in a fit of lust and rage? Unleash your inner teenage nerd!
I listened to this collection of short stories as an audio book and really enjoyed them. I've always enjoyed the Conan films, and the stories aren't any different. Full of action and adventure, they are fantastic!
Conan rocks!
The 2nd book in the Lancer/Ace Conan. Contains the Howard classic "Queen of the Black Coast." That and the Frazette cover make this one worth the price of admission.
See my review for the book "Conan." That review is meant for all of the Conan the Cimmerian series of books.
More great writing!
You can't read just one Conan story....
Conan rules!
I was 21 when I first came across these novels. I devoured the first ten in the series in short order. A classic and one of the all time greats. Even the ones that weren't completely Howard's words.
Love Robert E. Howard's style and the Conan series,King Kull and his other Pulp Fiction he wrote. This was my introduction to Sword and Sorcery fiction and it was great to re-read this!
This whole series is awesome. Looking back it is a bit sneeky of sprage n lin to mix themselves in.....but in general howard is perhaps the greatest author ever.Only contenders:michael moorcockjack vanceae van vogt
Again and again Conan meets and subdues beautiful women, who willingly succumb to his manly embraces.
Sprague decamp and Lin Carter, both acknowledged master of the genre so the stories do not suffer.
It's hard to say how much of the tales are pure Howard and how much has been changed by the different authors, but Conan does appear to be more talkative and philosophical here.
That part is probably due to decamp and Carter, while the addition of nubile and mostly naked women is clearly all Howard as he is credited as the sole author of the stories predominately featuring women.
Sprague de Camp and Lin Carter contribution, this one begins with Conan acting incredibly stupid and out of character.
In previous stories, as well as later ones in this volume, Conan seems less interested in treasure and shrugs it off when it slips from his grasp.
It's an uninspired treasure hunt with a stupid monster and a lame ending."The Frost Giant's Daughter" 3.5/5 StarsThis one is really cool, aside from Conan almost raping a girl.
Most of his encounters with the civilized world have been disappointing thus far, but this one features several interesting antagonists, a cool monster, an awesome opening, and a great ending.
