https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869967-jamaica-inn
The setting is classic gothic―it's the 1820s in a lonely, cold and windswept area of Cornwall, near the treacherous Bodmin Moor, in a decaying inn that all honest people avoid.The real Jamaica Inn, built in 1750, which inspired this novelAn isolated, orphaned young woman, 23 year old Mary Yellan, comes to stay with the pretty and outgoing aunt and handsome uncle that she remembers hearing about in letters that her mother received years ago, but finds that he is a hulking, abusive man and her aunt is now beaten and downtrodden.
Mary loved the farm, the area, and all her friends, so was reluctant to leave the south coast of Cornwall where, as a character later in the book describes it,"the pleasant lanes wind by the side of the river, and where your villages touch one another string upon string, and there are cottages upon the road"for the north coast, "lonely and untravelled as [the] moors themselves, and never a man's face shall you look upon."However, Mary keeps her promise, and discovers that her Aunt Patience no longer lives with her husband in Padstow, but in the centre of the moors in "Jamaica Inn", which turns out to be a gloomy, neglected and threatening building.
Their minds would be twisted, too, their thoughts evil, dwelling as they must amidst marshland and granite, harsh heather and crumbling stone.”Once arriving in Bodmin, Mary learns that her aunt now lives out at the formidable Jamaica Inn where her uncle, Joss Merlyn, is the sinister and drunken proprietor of the now disreputable inn that welcomes no travelers but the vilest characters that scurry in from the darkness of the moors.
The houses in Jamaica Inn appear to live and breathe of their own accord and I loved reading about them.
Overall, I liked it, however I wasn't totally enthralled. I'm not sure what exactly was missing for me, but I wasn't able to really connect with the characters and the story. Still enjoyable, but wishing I didn't feel so detached while reading it.
How do I save my Aunt?In this book Du Maurier writes with such description that you too feel surrounded by the moors, with it's mist and moans from the wind.

Published in 1936, two years before Rebecca, Jamaica Inn is a dark tale of murder and thievery, set close to the Bodmin Moor in Cornwall, England. It has a hint of romance, although I wouldn't call it romantic. It would have to be called a mystery if you had to give it a tag. The style is typical of the other du Maurier novels I have read, and excellent writing with great characters. It was a little slow to develop for me but once it did the pace ran quickly to the climax.3.5 stars
This rancid mess is supposed to be a classic?!
The attempt at 19th century prose falls flat..."like a dead thing." Good god.
It has all the writerly skill of a romance novel, and a boring one at that.
With midnight-smuggling and murder lurking behind a thinly-veiled mystery, I expected "THRILLS and CHILLS!" from this story.For its time, perhaps it was thrilling...NO!...No, I will not defend it.
The "what's going on behind the scenes?!" tension is teased out to beyond caring and the characterizations are hackneyed.
No wonder her work of any notoriety is, in all likelihood, plagiarized.
(It might be argued by some that this furnishes too little time for a couple to fall in love, and to decide on a life partner; but I would say that those things CAN happen in that time, when the attraction is real and strong.) Du Maurier's writing style has something of the flavor of a 19th-century novel (coming from me, that's a compliment); it doesn't have the elaborate, convoluted syntax, but it does have a substantial quality to it, and makes use of a wide vocabulary.
That leads into a point that would constitute a spoiler.(view spoiler)[Jem as a love interest comes across as somewhat sexist at times, both in his comments and in his sometimes cavalier treatment of Mary.
After selling everything she goes to Bodmin to live with her Aunt Patience and her husband, the proprietor of Jamaica Inn. Aunt Patience is no longer the vibrant and happy woman Mary knew, but a much older looking woman, frightened and weak.
The cause of this change is her brute of a husband, the giant Joss Merlyn, who's an alcoholic and a bully.
She concedes to some of her uncle's demands as she wants to rescue her aunt from the hands of her domineering husband.
Read and you'll find out.Jamaica Inn was spellbinding.
I still didn't care much for the female voices the narrator did, but I ended up really enjoying this haunting tale.Mary Yellan is young when her mother dies.
Her wish is for Mary to go and live with her Aunt Patience at Jamaica Inn. Her aunt's husband and innkeeper is a hulk of man, called Joss Merlyn.
On Mary's approach to Jamaica Inn she is told by the coachman that no one goes to the place, and the locals have such a fear of it and the innkeeper.
And so begins this wonderful, mysterious tale.I'm a big fan of Daphne du Maurier books and really enjoyed this one.
The scene has been set for the arrival of Mary, recently orphaned, who promised her mother on her deathbed that she would go live with her aunt in Cornwall at the Jamaica Inn. There she discovers an aunt who lives in fear and an uncle who is downright evil.
She discovers the nefarious goings on and her plan is to somehow rescue her aunt and get away from Jamaica Inn.It wouldn't be a gothic novel without some romance and without death.
The underlying fear of both Mary and her aunt, the not quite knowing what was going on, kept me rapidly reading the pages.
Her once lively and personable aunt is now a terrified shell of a woman married to drunkard inn owner Joss Merlyn.
A mischance on the way home from the village on Christmas Eve puts Mary in the middle of her Uncle and his nefarious companions in the midst of a more gruesome crime than smuggling, thus setting in motion a terrifying set of circumstances building up to a nail biting finish on the Bodmin moors.
I really enjoyed the way the author used the spookiness of the moors and the surrounding terrain of Cornwall to set her scenes and it greatly enhanced the feel of the book in general.
Η ταβέρνα της Τζαμάικας μου άρεσε πολύ περισσότερο από το Ρεβέκκα.
Αυτή η ζοφερή γκρίζα ατμόσφαιρα την οποία μας χαρίζει με περίσσια ικανοποίηση είναι ο χώρος της για να δράσει.
Αυτήν χρησιμοποιεί για να μας μεταφέρει τα αισθήματα των ηρώων της, για να μας προετοιμάσει για μία επερχόμενη καταστροφή, και να μεταδώσει την αγωνία.
Μία αγωνία όχι κραυγαλέα αλλά που υπονοείται και η οποία χτίζεται σταδιακά μέχρι την στιγμή της κορύφωσης.Εξαιρετική συγγραφέας που ξέρει να κάνει κάθε σκηνή δική της.
Αν εκτίμησα κάτι περισσότερο στην ταβέρνα της Τζαμάικα από ότι στην Ρεβέκκα είναι η ηρωίδα.
Nobody does Gothic like Daphne du Maurier. A decrepit inn without guests, wild moors, sinister fogs, smugglers, shipwrecks, a dashing horse thief, an albino vicar, and a murder mystery - all of the ingredients are there when orphaned Mary Yellan arrives at Jamaica Inn to live with her aunt who is married to a threatening man with secrets to hide.  The plot may seem over-the-top, but du Maurier excels in this genre, carefully laying the groundwork for a creepy, foreboding atmosphere. Instead of g
Nobody does Gothic like Daphne du Maurier.
Du Maurier was sensitive to the restrictions women faced when she wrote this novel in 1936, and she subtly weaves those concerns into this book.
While not quite at the level of Rebecca and My Cousin Rachel, Jamaica Inn is an enjoyable novel that will be appreciated by fans of du Maurier and Gothic fiction.
Alfred Hitchcock's 1939 film was based on du Maurier's book.
It was later made into a film, also called Jamaica Inn, directed by Alfred Hitchcock.
It was inspired by du Maurier's 1930 stay at the real Jamaica Inn, which still exists and is a pub in the middle of Bodmin Moor.
خاله‌ اش نیمه دیوانه شده، و ماری (مری) دلباخته برادر کوچک شوهرخاله‌ شده، و ...
The fear the local people have of the Inn makes the reader suspicious and nervous but by then the reader knows it is a story into darkness and violence.The moment Mary arrives to her battered and bullied aunt, she remembered as carefree and jubilant, is immediately threatened and uncomfortable.
Du Maurier gave Patience and Mary two complete personalities that needed to be part of her story to balance the scenes and compare the characters.
Not close to the story.Watching: 2014 version (series)-- very very good and similar to story.Characters are closer to the way I pictured them when reading the book...
I hovered between three and four stars but ultimately it gets four- for Mary and for the winds and the rains of the Cornish coast, all of them beautifully described and distinct in my mind after finishing this. The land, as in the best of much of Romantic literature, is the true source of this story's seductive powers.
Now this author could write:'And then I'll feel the thirst come on me and I'll soak.
It's not her best work but it's definitely readable because, hello!, it's Daphne du Maurier.Mary was unique in that she didn't mind so much with having to consort with lesser-liked types, those who are criminals or viewed poorly by the local village.
I didn't understand all the chemistry between them but I think it falls down to a few things - one, that the men's family tree lured in women of her line, like her aunt who had fallen for the uncle when they were younger.
I enjoyed this well enough as a work of historical fiction based on smuggling off the coast of Cornwall. I read My Cousin Rachel recently and really enjoyed it but by comparison this wasn't as good.
This story is even better the third time around. Every time I read it I notice something new.
I love the way du Maurier tells a story. This is the third book I`ve read by her and while, for me, it doesn`t have the punch of Rebecca or My Cousin Rachel, I still very much enjoyed it. Full of evil deeds, thievery, malice and the dark moors; it makes for an intriguing read.
I love the way du Maurier tells a story. This is the third book I`ve read by her and while, for me, it doesn`t have the punch of Rebecca or My Cousin Rachel, I still very much enjoyed it. Full of evil deeds, thievery, malice and the dark moors; it makes for an intriguing read.
Classics Cleanup Challenge #8Audio#156I've started this book FIVE TIMES today. I keep drifting off. I hope it gets better.Kinda reminds me of a Brontë novelSo this has been my least favorite du Maurier novel to date.
I don't understand my reaction to this book.I loved Rebecca, it was beautifully and thoughtfully written, but Jamaica Inn leaves me cold and it shouldn't. I really didn't want it to. It has all of the ingredients of a dark and exciting adventure and yet...it is populated by caricatures, larger than life and impossible to beleive in. The albino priest, the drunken landlord and his colourless wife...the smugglers, the cliches of the boggy more. No no no.Admittedly it was a less mature novel than Rebecca, written earlier the writers career but it lacked subtlety and for me it didn't work
But the writing is not the weakest point of Jamaica Inn. The story itself is.
Nothing much happens in the story besides Mary Yellan trying to figure out what awful business her dreadful uncle is a part of and whose brain is behind the whole crime scheme.
An atmospheric story with a romance of the complexity of an average Harlequin novel?
I don't know, I am not very familiar with the genre.Anyway, in spite of my slight disappointment, I am still interested in exploring Daphne du Maurier's works in future, but I hope they are more akin to Rebecca rather than Jamaica Inn. Are they?
The heroine of Jamaica Inn, Mary Yellan, has to deal with some very ruthless drunks and criminals.
While Dona in Frenchman's Creek wants to hide herself away from the patriarchal society she has lived in all her life, and finds freedom and equality among pirates, Mary is the prisoner of a much darker and more dangerous bunch of criminals, hopelessly isolated from the normal, civilized world around her, a world that does not represent constraint, but safety and normality.
Although the comparison to other du Maurier books was interesting, Jamaica Inn as a whole failed to captivate me.
Since six of my goodreads friend read it and liked it I was sure I would too since they've got good taste.
Mary Yellen has come to the moors of Jamaica Inn to one, fulfill her promise to her dead mother and two because she needs somewhere to stay.
It had been ten years since she'd seen her Aunt Patience, and ten years can change a body vastly..Mary's uncle is a massive, violent hunk of a man with the inability to control his drink.
Really the PG10-13 is mainly for the violence, (view spoiler)[I didn't really need to be told some people have bitten their tongues off when hanging.
Two and a half stars rounded up because the first half was terrific. Lots of sinister Cornish moors atmosphere. Dark, abusive characters. A spunky heroine. But then the story was spun out too long and too improbably. And Mary Yellin went from spunky to foolhardy. I found myself skimming to get to the end. I much preferred Daphne du Maurier's My Cousin Rachel and Rebecca. This just was not her best outing.Content PG for domestic violence and very ugly murders.
This is another really dark piece of literature, right up my alley. If you like 'Wuthering Heights', I promise you that you'll love this book. Don't let the purple cover and pink, script letters turn you off! Poor Mary has no idea what she's getting in to when she goes to live with her aunt and uncle! This book has murder, smugglers, deception, and a quiet romantic thread. It had me from page 1!
Mary complied with her dying mother's wishes that she move in with her Aunt Patience. Little did Mary's mother know what that wish held for Mary.Those wishes turned out to be very unpleasant for Mary. Mary had to endure her uncle's horribly mean disposition, his illegal activities, his mistreatment of Aunt Patience, and Mary's being pulled into it all.Mary saw things at Jamaica Inn that she had never seen before. For one thing, this Inn never had any guests except for unsavory characters.The set
Mary had to endure her uncle's ​horribly ​mean disposition, his illegal activities, his mistreatment of Aunt Patience, and ​Mary's being pulled into it all.Mary saw things at Jamaica Inn that she had never seen before.
I feared for Mary's safety in this desolate, dreary place.The book was a perfect Du Maurier book.
JAMAICA INN is a book I would recommend to those who know Du Maurier's writing even though it took me this long to know the book was out there and to read it.
:) If you don't know Du Maurier's writing, you will want to.Enjoy and read JAMAICA INN when you can.
