https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145383.The_Borrowers_Afield
It's too bad that this series of books about little people is in such danger of being dismissed as a cute or trite children's fairy story. They certainly shouldn't be described in that way. Once you can suspend your disbelief in the existence of small people living in and amongst normal humans, the books becomes adventure stories in the best sense--kind of a Robinson Crusoe story but with much more likable and more subtly depicted characters.
In the second book of The Borrowers series, Pod, Homily and Arrietty are on the run after escaping from the terrible Mrs Driver and the ferret.
I did not read the other two in the series because by the time The Borrowers Afloat was published in 1959, I was twelve years old and had moved on as a reader.
I will be reading Afloat and Aloft soon though thanks to my Big Fat Reading Project*.*See entry in "Writing" by going to my profile.
Однак доки ми розжилися наступною книгою серії, доки читали інші, не менш захопливі, історії, час минув, і це надало такої гострої радості від зустрічі з улюбленими героями, що ми прочитали досить об’ємну, як для п’ятирічки, книгу дуже швидко.Про те, що чекало на крихітних утікачів із великого дому в полі, ми читали теж...
Так і хотілося покласти його в якесь затишне місце: а раптом знадобиться якимось карпатським роздобудькам?)))Про саму книгу нічого не казатиму: за мене вже розказала її популярність у світі, кількість перекладів та екранізацій.
Тож ми читатимемо далі)))
I have been reading this to Seth in our morning time. It took a while to get into, but we did really enjoy the last half of the book.
I love the way these books have such an awareness of unreliable narrators, and of oral stories, for all that they're written down.
I imagine that frustrates some people, but I do like it.I remember, all of a sudden, as a child, carefully leaving things on the lower shelves, for Borrowers.
Or maybe they knew what I was doing, and never wanted to let on to a giant girl like me that they really were there.
It suffered more than the first book, I think, from my nostalgia for it: it just wasn't as good as I remembered, as the image the years of thinking about the Borrowers had made.
The book justifies this anxiety by delivering plenty of peril, so for an impressionable young child already prone to view the unpredictability of the outside world with some skepticism, this book tends to confirm such views.Some other nice touches in this installment: Four chapters of frame story at the beginning that build anticipation for the continuation of the Arrietty-focused narrative, and very cheeky use of epigraphs for all the chapters, hinting obliquely at events to come and also potentially piquing the interest of the child reading them about the historical events or figures mentioned.
I'm really so impressed with these books.
Favorite from childhood.
So much fun, and so much more tense, as they venture out of their safe home!
I liked the first book better but this was also very good. Living outside poses many problems but also many wonders. The Borrowers face dangers and difficulties. How to stay alive without humans to borrow from? What will happen as winter approaches? There is a lot more description and the action is saved for the very frightening end. Now I have to read the next book but I may take a detour into Mary Norton's other books. Bed-Knob and Broomstick is next!
Difficult to read aloud to my first grader, but she loves this series.
Another great story from the "littles" that may or may not be around us! ;-)I can't believe I missed this story series when I was a kid. Especially since I watched "The Littles" on TV when I was young!If you are young or just young at heart, these books are super!!! What a fun summer evening read!
I am enthralled by this series! Fans of Arriety will find themselves drawn into another delightful adventure. I am now in danger of abandoning all other books I am currently reading and delve solely into the world of Pod and Homily and all the other characters who stay in my mind long after the swiping of the last page.
'have a leg'" p 107 taciturn archer Dreadful Spiller (his mother's appellation is his only memory of her) brings them meat (fresh-shot mouse, don't ask) and "almost anything they asked for" p150.
Overwhelmed by the noise, heat, press of strangeness, Arriety flees outside, so the book ends with her and Tom exchanging "Hallo" p 215.
(Arriety printed e's in half moons like Mrs Mary's brother in previous book).
When Mrs May inherited cottage on her Great Aunt Sophy's estate, Kate listened to tale of Young Joe, boy with a ferret.
The fantasy novel, The Borrowers Afield, by Mary Norton, is about an adventure taken by Pod, Homily, and their daughter Arrietty, to find a new home with their loving relatives in a badger set.
They would find each other again in the home of a loving friend.The Borrowers Afield is a 215 page book filled with adventure, anticipation, determination, and bravery.
The author does an amazing job showing bravery throughout the book when she expresses it through Pod. An example is when Pod stands up to a hungry crow on page 48, “Get back to where you was...we don’t want no nonsense from you...shoo!” It is also interesting and exciting to watch as Pod, Homily, and Arrietty make new friends as they search for their relatives.
Setelah sekian lama ngga "terseret" masuk ke dalam cerita ketika membaca sebuah buku, gua menemukannya kembali di buku yang satu ini, oohh kebayang khan betapa mengasyikannya kalo kita bisa turut jadi bagian dalam cerita yang dituturkan?!Perkenalkan "The Borrowers", manusia mini yang besarnya paling cuman sejempol aja.Dan sesuai dengan namanya, keluarga yang terdiri dari bapak, ibu dan seorang anak perempuan ini deman meminjam barang dari tempat yang mereka tinggali.Walau dibilang meminjam yaa mereka ngga pernah mengembalikannya juga sih, ahahaha..
yaa misalnya aja minjam garam ketika mo masak githu dhee.Tadinya mereka hidup tenang di sebuah rumah (diceritain di buku pertama yang belon gua baca, gua bacanya yang seri kedua ini) namun ketenangan mereka terganggu ketika tempat persembunyian mereka diketahui and manusia yang tinggal di rumah itu melakukan pengasapan untuk mengusir The Borrowers.Yaa..
"The Borrowers Afield" by Mary Norton is about how these tiny creatures who are like humans, just fifty times smaller run for their lives.
When Kate is interested in the towns legends, she looks in to it by asking the elderly the true tales of the borrowers.
She finds out a lot about them, and she even gets her hands on one of their diaries.
The book is made up of the diary of Arietty.
So, the borrowers were chased out of their cozy home by the rat catcher, and since they lived in the suburbs, there was a field right by the house.
I started reading this aloud with my four-year-old after we enjoyed the first installment.
Unfortunately, this book takes too long to pick up to enough action to keep his interest.
For the first half of the book, the whole story is background about living outside, getting set up in an old boot, worrying about wildlife, etc.
I'll tell him the parts about discovering other Borrowers and eventually moving back indoors.
Maybe we'll try the third installment.
Still, I enjoyed reading more about these sweet little people and I love the concept of them "borrowing" miscellaneous stuff and repurposing it.
This is the only Borrowers book that I have read.
When I read this in 6th grade, I couldn't find the first book, so I just read this one, and I never got around to reading the others.
Anyway, if you have NOT read the previous book, I suggest you do, because things will make more sense.
So, the borrowers- Pod, Homily and Arrietty- used to live inside, but they move into the outdoors for some reason (I forgot why).
Overall, this is an ok book.
It was pretty decent, but it didn't motivate me to read the other Borrowers books.
Another good book.
This book is quite nice. It can be enjoyable for young and old. It tells about very small people that have very big adevntures! ^^
Things get more exciting living in the wild. And also Spiller. I didn't remember how badass he was! How young the characters seem to me now.
The Clock family is forced to flee the Big House! They live in a field and meet Spiller!
The book The Borrower Afield by Mary Norton was creative and fun story to experience.
Homily starts having a nervous breakdown when Pod explains they have to live outside until they find the badger hole where Arrietty's uncle lives.
While they were wandering around Arrietty spots a boot from across the land.
When Arrietty and her family wakes up the next morning they start dragging the boot with them to a large stump.
Will they find Arrietty's uncle?There is nothing I would really want to change about the book.
This book is not too hard to read and it is a fun and creative book.
After reading the first Borrowers book and really enjoying it with my kids, I was looking forward to the sequel.
This took place after the borrower family fled from the big house and they are struggling to survive outside.
It made it less of a kid's book and more of a slog about survival and fending for themselves in the wilderness.
I did not look forward to reading this to the kids and I suspect most of them didn't look forward to it either, so it failed on that part.
loved reading one of my favourite children's series as an adult.
It is interesting what you get from it looking through adult eyes.
Although my favourite is still the original book 1 The Borrowers this still didn't disappoint.
what I noticed from this re read is the beautiful descriptive writing of Mary Norton.
As the family are forced to flee into the open countryside, the world as Arriety sees it, is beautifully narrated.Something I didn't notice as a child as I was so drawn into the magical world of the fantasy of it.
If you haven't had the pleasure of the Original Borrowers series then go read now.
I had never read a Borrowers book before, but my child has, and she asked me to read this one to her at bed time.
I'm glad I read it.
I kind of want to read the others.PS: There's a bunch of stuff referencing "gypsies", which is bothersome...at least we had a good reason to discuss how that's a slur we should not use.
Lots of the language is quite old-fashioned and there really was stuff I couldn't even explain so next time I'd have the dictionary close by!
It was a good book in general, I give it 3.5 stars.
I found out that this is really more of a read aloud book, at least for me.
There were some boring parts where I just had to put the book down and start again another day.
I did this quite a lot which resulted in not finishing this book a month after I started it.
I really liked the ending, it closed everything up and just made me understand everything so much better.
To sum it up I really recommend reading this book aloud to get a better read out of it.
This is the story of how the borrowers leave their original house. They are forced to deal with the outside world for the first time. My children did not enjoy the beginning of the book, which is a story framing tale of the borrowers. It is about a little girl who has been told about the Borrowers by her aunt, who saw them as a child. As the Borrowers spend most of their time in a field, the real action is not until the last third of the book, which made the middle seem long to my children.
Mary Norton is a wonderful writer. The Borrowers series is a much beloved classic. I am glad that the movies stayed pretty true to the storyline. A family circle, filled with love, adventure, trust. As we continue to follow the storyline, the borrowers leave their sanctuary in the house, for the wild, unknown outdoors. The story is delightful and entertaining. This is what so many strive for today, but life is not simple anymore, and the innocence is mostly gone.
