https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11901.The_Witching_Hour
I actually quite enjoyed this book up until the very end, when I felt like the main female character just had some sort of weird personality seizure and did something that the character as you've come to know her just wouldn't have done. It just made it seem poorly written to me, like Ms. Rice decided in the last 10 pages or so that it was going to have a sequel after all when she had been intending from the beginning for it to be a one-book story.
Cared for by her sister Carlotta, Deirdre wastes away in a grand but decaying house on First Street, spook central for stories the nuns tell naughty children about witches in the Garden District.The doctor, the priest and the woman have at one time wanted to help cure Deirdre or reunite her with her daughter, but find the heir to the Mayfair fortune to be lost in her own world, as well as controlled not only by feared attorney Miss Carl, but a strange man that has been seen near her for years.
This was my first ever Anne Rice book, and it was about a year after Interview With A Vampire came out as a movie with Brad Pitt, Christian Slater and Tom Cruise.
I was blown away people.
If you like a story, like Gone With the Wind on crack, no seriously, epic like that, except VERY ADULT (don't let your tweens get their hands on this one Mom's and Dad's!), but such an addicting read that you may just get fired for calling in sick over it.This was far and away my favorite Anne Rice novel, and any of the other sequels and prequels that go with it, and a major recommendation from me on great, compelling, lose-yourself type reading.
Rather than spend more time with Charlotte, Deborah, Carlotta, Stella, Julien, & everyone else, it's painfully apparent that their lives & misadventures are leading to Rowan Mayfair & her boyfriend, Michael Curry, as their lives are woven into the Evul Plans of a very determined demon...spirit...thing named Lasher.Before I get to Rowan & Michael, let's talk about Lasher.
Ignore them as needed.) At any rate, Lasher has been interbreeding one family because he looks into the future & sees one specific witch (Rowan) as his door into the world of sensational experience.
Didn't happen.Rowan has mysterious healing powers, but she can also kill people with her mind.
You can sit down to read and realize that 2 hours have passed having not even noticed.This book is about a woman named Rowan Mayfair, who was given up for adoption at birth.
(After this book, the Talamasca was merged into Rice's primary ongoing serial, "The Vampire Chronicles.")Aaron presents her with the file on her family, and the narrative breaks away for a good 300 pages to tell the tale of an ancient coven of witches, reaching back as far as the 1600's.
But when Rice decided that it was time to end all of her ongoing serials, she merged these characters with those from the Vampire Chronicles and ended them both together.
This was my first attempt at Anne Rice and I fear it might well be my last.Halfway through "The Witching Hour", I was absolutely enthralled.
Anne Rice has a gift for choosing the words that bring it all to life.
I love books & reading and don't shy away from a challenge but I felt it just took too long to get to a disappointing ending.
In a word, pitifully.Rowan, the all-powerful 13th witch in the Mayfair Dynasty & destiny, so completely consumed in her eternal love for Michael - gives up, betrays Michael and helps Lasher?
Oh what a wonderful time I had revisiting my first Anne Rice book! I love Southern Gothic and for me there is only one book that beats this one in the genre. Rice's epic tale has it all; mystery, rapture, romance, destiny, history measured in dynastic generations, omens, and decaying mansions teeming with secrets. When you add in Rice's lush prose and fascinating characters all the variables are present for an atmospheric and engrossing read.  There are too many fascinating characters to talk ab
When you add in Rice's lush prose and fascinating characters all the variables are present for an atmospheric and engrossing read.
I read over 900 pages of miniscule text to see if Rowan would wind up with the Mayfair Emerald around her neck and Lasher between her legs.
Rowan's love interest is a sexy, brilliant, strong, and successful man named Michael Curry who has some unique powers himself.
Rice wastes no time in using the chemistry between Rowan and Michael to mix some steamy sexy times into her horror tale.
For me, the real key to absolutely loving this novel lies in sharing Rice’s fascination with the occult.
I FINALLY finished this. Good Lord, what a long winded mess this was. All the wordy history was boring but I stuck it out then ended up hating the ending! Why in the world to I keep reading Anne Rice?
The Witching Hour is an extremely long novel, 1207 pages, but don't let that put you off reading as once you open the first page you soon find yourself completely absorbed in the chilling tale of the Mayfair Witches.
In fact, I loved all Anne Rice's vivid descriptions of New Orleans and the house on First Street, I found this really added to the intensity of the story.There was a section in the middle, of about 300 pages or more, describing the history of the Mayfair family, the whole 12 generations of the family!
I imagine this as a fabulous mini-series featuring Kathy Bates and Sharon Stone in key roles. why can't this happen? someone make this happen!
This is one of the best books that I have read. With her Dickensian writing, Anne Rice weaves a wonderfully dark and historically fascinating tale about a spirit attached to a family of witches. Although this book is almost 1000 pages, it goes by so quickly! The historical description of the family's travels from places such as Scotland and Port-au-Prince, Haiti is detailed in a way that made me swoon! (Yes, swoon.)
This is one of my favorite summer trash reads. It's like a soap opera with witches and sex. Good fun.
In THE WITCHING HOUR, Anne Rice creates an incredible novel which is epic in scope. Much like she did in THE VAMPIRE LESTAT, Rice paints a colorful and rich history of her characters, and the story is wonderfully compelling and captivating. At 965 pages, this book takes some time to read carefully and to fully digest all of the events and interactions taking place over the centuries. I found it to be well worth the effort and definitely think that THE WITCHING HOUR is one of Rice's finest works.
Review is tainted by romance.When my man and I first moved into the Garden District last summer (while I was still a bartender) we moved into a pristine apartment with a gallery balcony which overlooked Chestnut street.
I spent most of the summer mornings on the balcony reading the Mayfair witches series, starting with The Witching Hour.
Under the shade of the magnolia tree next to our balcony I could actually see "the Mayfair House" from my window - the house that Anne Rice used to own when she wrote the series on Chestnut and First.
With this first installment in the Lives of the Mayfair Witches trilogy, she wrote the perfect family saga full of history, intrigues, description (and boy is there a lot of it!), fully-crafted (pun intended) characters (a plethora of them, actually!), dark magic, creepy scenes and details (boy, that scene in the cemetery with the dead rising from the grave!), plot twists, etc.; all this spread over two continents and something like 400 years for the main characters and basically since time beyond record for a few others… which makes for a very long read––close to a thousand pages, actually.
My favorite Anne Rice book of all time, anyone who reads this book will fall in love with New Orleans and Anne's writing. Not a vampire book, and I do love her vampires, but this is the best.
This is a long book.
The actual book has tiny print and close together lines and I only 'read' it when I wanted to finish a chapter that I'd started while driving.
The narrator did a fantastic job and her languid voice for much of the (comprehensive) description was apt.I enjoyed many parts of this story but in the end I just wanted it to be done because it was just too long.
I'm sure it could have lost about 300 pages without compromising the integrity of the story.This was my first Anne Rice.
There are two sequels to this book but I doubt I will continue with the series.
That is not a bad thing: a good, juicy, trashy read is fun every once in a while.This complicated, massive novel is the story of the Mayfair family: for thirteen generations, they have been protected and manipulated by a strange spirit familiar named Lasher, who has made them wealthy and powerful, but has also driven many of them to madness.
After learning all about her family history with the help of the Talamasca (a secret order that studies paranormal phenomenon), she decides to move back to the family house in New Orleans with Michael Curry – a man who acquired strange powers following a near-death experience - with the intent of making it their home and outwitting Lasher and freeing the Mayfairs from his influence.
When I got to the end of this thick book, after having read hundreds of lukewarm pages, and found that it basically said "to be continued," I was pretty pissed off. If the book had been mine and not one I had borrowed from a friend, I would have tossed it across the room. That was when I decided that I would never again buy an Anne Rice book. I haven't.
Engrossing from the first paragraph. Anne Rice is best known for her book, "Interview With the Vampire," but she SHOULD be best known for this.  This is an epic novel that follows the lives of the Mayfair witches through generations, time and place. Eerie, magical, and mysterious. Characters are woven into an intricate and mesmerizing plot. Beautiful descriptive writing.  I was chilled to the bone and genuinely scared during nearly every chapter, but addicted like nothing else. Stayed up way past my bedtime with this one. Or was it because I was too scared to go to sleep? ;)
I read this book back in 2011 immediately after I finished secondary school. It took me forever to read it then but I loved the story even till today, I've still not read anything quite like it.A generation of witches traced back to the 1800 now reside in new Orleans, the book is written in an amazing way, It's super crazy how Lasher (the spirit they get their power from) drive them to insanity and all.I'm definitely going to reread it and finish the series because even after 6 years I've still not read anything quite like the witching hour.
Review also posted at My Bookshelf is Ready.
I always hated vampire/witch stories but my honors English teacher in high school recommended this book to me for our final paper.
Its about 1000 pages long so I used the first 500 hundred and literally fell in love.
Since then I have read the book about five times.
It centers around a wealthy family living in New Orleans, there is a spirit that follows one woman in every generation and the story follows the spirit from its conception.
It is a really interesting, complex novel with many layers- it is not just a witch craft story but one about family and love and history.
Knowing my love of vampires and witches, my sister, upon hearing a review of this book sent it to me for my Birthday and I cold not put it down. This book connects the spirit world, with old world interest, new world love for anything gothic and just plain good writing. I followed the witches, spirits and vampires in every book by Anne Rice. This by far was the best!
Probably my favorite novel of hers. As is the case with most AR books, I don't particularly connect with the characters as much as I do with the world she creates. Love the web of history and how everything weaves together.
This book disturbed me with her descriptions of incest and child sexual abuse activities.
It's inappropriate and disturbing.
That being said, and those parts aside, the beginning of the book is interesting and I liked it a lot plotwise and characterwise, but when she starts to delve into the history of the Mayfair witches her characters become 2 dimensional cutouts that are really lame.
I just can't plow through it all to get back to the part of the story I liked which does resurface at the end.
And it is interesting to note that while Lasher is very powerful, he is the first to acknowledge he has made mistakes and we see one or two times Carlotta has tricked “the trickster”.The second drowning scene of Michael Curry, Rowan’s husband, was amazing.
In fact the climax for me seems to be when Michael nearly drowns for a second time and while I loved the scene, it didn’t feel as though that should be such a strong scene while the real climax - the showdown between Rowan and Lasher - was so weak.
The Mayfair family has a sordid, macabre past, and the center of it all is the large plantation home in New Orleans that has been passed down in the witch clan through the years.
Against this is a forward-moving narrative set in the present day about Rowan Mayfair, the most powerful witch yet, coming home to New Orleans.
The first book in the Mayfair Witches trilogy, this is my favorite Anne Rice novel as of now, and I expect to read the sequel soon.
Seventeenth-Century Stonehenge: a woman sways and chants beneath a stony sky, calling to the Devil.“We know there are such entities… they may grant our wishes in ways that cause us to cry to heaven in desperation.” ~ The Witching HourAnne Rice made terror respectable.Okay, so some of her recent efforts may have made me want my high school ring back, but her early work did for contemporary horror what P.
In 1988, Queen of the Damned completed the triptych, with the vampires again struggling to accommodate highly developed intellects to an inescapable thirst, and if later entries in the series seemed to lose focus, several proved surprisingly intense.The Witching Hour practically reprises Rice’s career.
Records also indicate that this girl got expelled from two schools during this time period.
And the other person begat so and so...
Person A lived a very quiet life in which nothing happened.
Person B lived a life of sin and scandal, but was not really a witch.
Person C was a powerful witch, but never cast any spells.
Person D was probably a witch, but there is no sound evidence.
Person E is some random cousin who really has nothing to do with the story or with witches and could have been safely left out of the book...
