https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32111.The_Foundling
Gilly is a 24 year old duke, orphaned at a young age.
Or, as Gilly puts it, “to see if I am a man, or only a Duke.” Crazy adventures ensue.It starts off slow and takes about 1/4 of the book to really get rolling, but I'm glad I stuck with it!
It's mostly a coming-of-age story, with lots of adventure, a good amount of farcical humor, and a dollop of romance.
The story line is skillfully done & for anyone who feels the romance was perfunctionally done I would say (view spoiler)[ that the engagement between Harriet & Gilly was necessary as a motive for why Gideon should be in a hurry to supposedly murder his cousin  (hide spoiler)] & subtly at the end both the reader & Gilly realise that (view spoiler)[ he can't manage on his own he needs the sweet & capable Harriet.
(hide spoiler)]The host of minor characters make this a real laugh - Liversedge is one of GH's best villains.
Although very similar in plot to Sprig Muslin and, I believe, Charity Girl (I haven't read that one, so I can't be sure), The Foundling is definitely a unique read, and I suspect, a deeper, more profound story.
It's above all the coming-of-age story of the young Duke of Sale, and the book is filled with adventures, cat-and-mouse chases and, naturally, hilarious characters and situations.
Were I to re-read this book (which I definitely will at some point!), I know I would skip and skim a lot here and there, so that’s usually a sign that I didn’t love absolutely everything about it.
The Foundling is more a coming-of-age story than a romance. The Duke really needed to learn to 'assert himself' and after managing to slip away from all those people who care for him, he does exactly that.I loved most of it. The moment Harriet hears about Belinda not so much. It was uncomfortable to read. That is the only thing that ruined otherwise a great story for me.There are too many things that happen here to list them all. Overall, I liked it.
Finally, however, he decides to break free, and the titular foundling is the impetus for much of his adventures.This book is rather unusual for a Heyer book in that the viewpoint character is male (we do get Harriet's point of view a few times, but Gilly, the Duke, is the viewpoint character for the majority of the book) and the romance is understated.
Gilly is an expert marksman, but otherwise, he doesn't care for the usual pursuits of a Regency gentleman.In other ways, however, The Foundling has many of the stock attributes of Heyer romances, including the convoluted plot and the grandmother from a decidedly less prim generation who has no patience for missishness.
The very first Georgette Heyer I have read at the coaxing recommendation of my wife who I believe is in some secret underground Georgette Heyer fan club. In a few short words I would say The Foundling is a fast paced, witty, humorous, well written book that I enjoyed very much. Georgette Heyer writes each character of this large cast so they are instantly recognizable. Most of the characters are over the top, but that is the fun of this novel. The unbelievable situations and turns in the plot are believable because of these characters.
But they were, still, dead during those years and so, makes me wonder, did I really read this book before?I’ve occasionally seen mention of people wanting Heyer books to be turned into films.
Normally that’d be the romantic love interest, but there really isn’t one in this book, sure, there’s the woman the Duke is expected to marry, and has even proposed to, but that’s an arranged marriage, not a love marriage (there are some words that attempt to change that that get expressed, but no foundation was given to have those words be real, to be true, they just seemed there to keep this book from falling outside the romance category).
This is definitely one of the wittiest of her books that I've read. Gilly, our hero, is a quiet unassuming person but grows in character over the book. There isn't a romance as such. We know he's to be married and to who but we see very little of her in the book until quite near the end. It's a long story and we meet some queer and many characters along the way. This book has lots of cant and I enjoyed it thoroughly.I'm a big Heyer fan and this one lives up to all expectations.
In his travels, Gilly encounters Tom, a magnet for mischief of all kinds, Belinda, a beautiful, empty-headed girl whose virtue is teetering on a knife-edge, a brace of villains, and a host of citizens of all stripes that, as a Duke, he had never had to deal with before.I love sweet-tempered Gilly, another of Heyer's non-standard heroes, his friendship with his cousin Gideon, and his irascible Uncle Lionel.
This is really more a coming of age novel than a romance; there is a romance, of course, but it takes a distant second place to Heyer's account of how her hero, Gilly, Duke of Sale, goes adventuring, in a smartly paced plot, and frees himself from the confinement of his family and his title.
The romance wasn't much (and I actually found Gilly's romantic interest rather dull), but the friendship between Gilly and his dashing cousin, Gideon, was a highlight of the book.
I don't think I've read a Heyer before in which a friendship between two men was such a focus, and I liked it quite a bit.
The main hero had his heroine, but their interactions were a little at the beginning and then at the end.
But I can easily forgive her this lack because the story was so engrossing that a romance wasn't necessary.I agree with Anne: I typically tend to fall for the rakes and rogues, the tall-dark-and-handsome hero who's been overdone and overdone, but once in a while I get a major crush on a completely different type of hero.
By the by, there was also the tall-dark-and-handsome hero here: the cousin, Gideon.
This is a fun one to re-read. With every new approach I gain new sympathy for Gilly, and there's always great satisfaction when he grows some ovaries in the end, and stops letting people boss him around so much.
Heyer gave us many wonderful characters in this novel, "types" she's crafted before: the stern but loving guardian; the outspoken, affectionate family retainers; the brash, tart-tongued Grandmama from a previous generation impatient with "missish" Regency airs and quite willing to put everyone to blush with salty tales and gossip, and the ambitious, calculating mamas.
Finally, one of the most delicious twists for me was Heyer sending up the image of the perfect romantic hero (which she herself did a great deal to invent and perpetuate) by making dashing, handsome, commanding Gideon, Gilly's cousin, the sidelined but totally supportive "wingman" to his diminutive relative.
Wasn't really a romance book, it was a book about finding who you are and gaining independence.You gotta love Gilly, he's a Duke who wants to be a nobody.
I loved Gillys's cousin, Harry/Harriett (his betrothed) and little Tom. They make the adventure so much more fun.
I think the reason this book isn't a romance is what curses it with the low ranking, but if you're looking for a funny book pick this one up!
I have a fondness for "Mr. Dash of Nowhere in Particular." Something about the description of the meek young duke, ruled over by his strong-willed, crotchety relations and servants spoke to me.
I cheered for his coming-of-age transition to a man, and his adventures out in the world, his experiments at doing everything for himself.
I do think the romance in this book seemed like something of an afterthought, put in at the end only because Heyer's readers are used to seeing a pat happy ending.
I didnt' think it needed it.
Its a case of Heyer limiting herself to the genre.
This book was adorable. Just adorable. I was so proud of Gilly. Heyer paints a wonderful sweet and believable portrait of a young man treated like a child all his life and yet still finds he has the heart of a man, and a good man too. My only complaint was that it dragged a bit. Could have been 50 pages shorter and I would have liked more scenes with the lovely Lady Harriet, but all in all, a wonderful read.
I still enjoy Gilly so very much if only to pluck him out of this story into a faster-paced one and to give him a proper love escapade.
Something tells me, though, that his cousin Gideon would not allow it.
No matter that of any character, I imagined myself most like Gideon, with a slanted humorous grin, taking in the whole onslaught of rather silly predicaments and entanglements with much amusement and enjoyment, in the corner of the room.
And he did it with love.
How could I not also love Gilly?
3.75 bc of the slowness in the telling once you get further into the story.
Though, I would never mention it to Gideon, you know...
I do think, however, given a few years married to Gilly, she would make a very interesting heroine in her own right.
She's about as relevant to the plot as the grubby school boy, or the villain, or even Gilly's cousin Gideon.
He isn't like Heyer's normal heroes.
I think I would very much like a sequel to this one.
Also, while I liked Gilly a good deal, I've got a literary crush on his cousin Gideon.
What a fun character!
Similar to her other plots (like The Corinthian) but with more emphasis on the hero.
But most of the story is caught up in the adventures of Gilly as he kicks over the traces and goes on a mission of mercy (and meets another 'Falstaff' type, though this one theoretically intended to be more amusing).The story works a little better than Charity Girl, but it is still full of rather too much of the things Gilly is trying to escape, which is hard to endure in a book, let alone a whole life.There are a few bright points, though - particularly the farmer's mother observing that Belinda's lack of morals is probably due to being a by-blow of the gentry.
Far from trying to get his inheritance, his family did everything in its power to ensure that the sickly little boy would grow to manhood.
While doing so he rescues a fair but dimwitted maiden, takes on the charge of an adventurous boy, thumps villains on their heads, gets kidnapped, burns down a house, and all in all leads a very enterprising life indeed.
It's largely free of Heyer's love of Regency-era slang, and the main character is far from her usual tall-saturnine-sardonic-controlling hero.
The only issue I had was that the love between Gilly and the woman he ends up marrying seems to come out of nowhere.
I know many love this one, but I have never been able to finish it in the forty years I've been reading Heyers.
The conversations are interminable, seeming to exist for the sake of using period slang (especially that made up by Pierce Egan) and not particularly witty to me.
The plot meanders, never catching my interest; I just do not like her long-suffering heroine plots.
I wish is idea--the put-upon, mild young duke who runs away and assumes an ordinary identity and promptly finds himself in adventures--had occurred to her decades before, when she was at the top of her game.
And the secondary characters are some of Heyer’s best, from his favorite cousin Gideon (wish he’d gotten his own novel) to one of the great rogues of all time, Swithin Liversedge.
And the rest of the book makes up for it in the action department!The Foundling gives us a vivid picture of ordinary life outside the metropolis, and the story has many complicated dilemmas that the hero must sort out in order to win through to happiness in the end.
This is is my first Heyer read with a male protagonist as the dominant character, and I was a little worried that it would be entirely filled with gambling, races, boxing, and other manly pursuits, which I find completely boring.
It was not, however - it was a delightful adventure and character study of a realistic and endearing young gentleman.
I absolutely loved the character arc that Sale passes through.
His growth is subtle, but the difference by the end is tremendous, and I loved seeing him "come into his own," while still remaining his gentle, considerate self.
My 21st Georgette HeyerThis is not a romance, but a coming of age story.
An okay, but not a remarkable one.Our hero: Gillespie "Gilly" Ware, Duke of Sale and Marquis of Ormesby; Earl of Sale; Baron Ware of Thame; Baron Ware of Stoven; and Baron Ware of Rufford.
Orpahned at a young age and raised by the staff, he lives a sequestered life because everyone is terrified he will get sick and die.
It's a sad thing to see a duke unable to stand up for himself in front of his uncle or the staff.
So he runs away....
Romp romp rompety romp! Gilly is sick of being treated like the duke he is and he just can't stand up to anyone, so he runs off from his household to fix a slight problem his cousin has brought him. He ends up with a troublemaking, silly entourage, racketing from place to place (though never too far from London), kidnapped, thought dead, and in love with the woman he was supposed to marry anyway. Although the romance isn't convincing, the farce is excellent and Gilly is loveable and recognizable. In need of a laugh, I certainly found one.
Not one of my favorite Heyer novels, although it is frequently witty. But the story drags, and Tom and Belinda are *infinitely* tedious. I ended the book actively disliking them both.
Wherein the ingenue is a duke.
He dutifully proposes to Lady Harriet Presteigne, his uncle’s choice of bride, and even though he likes her well enough, he longs for a little freedom from the demands of being a duke.
In the process, the Duke learns to appreciate his entourage and they, in their turn, learn that he’s a resourceful and competent young man who doesn’t need rescuing after all.The Duke is the star turn here, being both gently self-effacing and also innately aristocratic, a tough act to pull off.
The love interest, Lady Harriet, is pleasant enough and an excellent match for the Duke, but she suffered greatly from playing no part in events for most of the book.
I also loved the friendship that was portrayed between the hero and his cousin Gideon, who are very close, though they're quite different in appearance and personality.
In fact all the revelation of feelings and the tying of loose ends in the latter part of this story had me in tears a few times.This is the perfect story for someone who loves longer books and the Regency period, who loves a little romance, a twisting and turning adventure with lots of scrapes and one or two life or death turning points, and great character arcs.
Who is genuinely nasty and depressing, while reviled GH is more genuinely feminist and empowering and of course in another league, ten thousand miles above that hack, with her great talent in writing people and scenes and plots like clockwork, the elegance of it all evolving and fitting and making sense and amusing and formerly warming a dead-now girl's heart.I also cannot understand why a critic said "all her heroines are young, beautiful and lively" when that is blatantly untrue, and why that is quoted now, on novels where those girls are witless antiheroines.
