https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37586.The_Lost_Colony
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: It's about puberty, instability and bodily change, (view spoiler)[with a rescue plot practically a beat-for-beat mirror of the first book (hide spoiler)].
I was trying too hard to like this book.
I just couldn't!
I just couldn't!
I have guessed by now how you will start the book.
Of course, after reading the last four books of the series.
So I was bored in the beginning except for one thing.
There was action and little excitement.
Or I also consider the excitement in this was slightly unnecessary.
I couldn't connect with her.
I liked Opal Koboi more.Nevertheless, I enjoyed after the beginning.
It wasn't that bad but wasn't that good as compared to the previous books of the series.January 14, 2017
آرتمیس فاول این بار به سراغ دیو ها که خانواده ای ازجن ها هستند و بعد از نبرد تیلت حاضر به رفتن به زیر زمین نشدند و جزیره ی خود را به برزخ منتقل کردند،می رود.امّا در این حین دختری به نام مینروا یکی از دیو ها را می دزد و آرتمیس و دوستانش به نجات دیو و جزیره ی دیوها که هایبراس نام دارد می پردازد.و...
Here i thought that there would never be another person who could match artemis fowl and here pops up a Pretty, 12 year old French Prodigy!
A girl version of Artemis Fowl named Minerva!
The girl seems to be definately artemis' match!
Well, Minerva, at this age is just like Artemis when he was 12 years old, always thinking about power and fame.I pitied Artemis at the end of the story..
Minerva and Artemis are supposed to be of the same age now!!!I am quite positive that they will both work together at the last book!
and i am really really excited for it!
Artemis Fowl: The Lost Colony is the fifth book in the series, and I personally think that everyone who loves Harry Potter should read these books.
It’s kind of nice to have an Artemis Fowl book that I’m sure will have a sequel, since the last few books have ended on more questionable notes.
Maybe that was part of the problem with this book, because the last book ended on a note that didn’t *need* a sequel, so this book didn’t have as much of a place to start off from.Read the rest of my review at  Bookwyrm Chrysalis
my Artemis Fowl's reading playlist : https://open.spotify.com/user/debbyhattan/playlist/1rQmLp9EHxnQwB72zHGgSk “Control puberty?" snorted the bodyguard."If you manage that, you'll be the first.” This book literally got me cracked up when it comes to the humor of Artemis' stage of growing up xD How smol and so innocent he is back then from the very first book till now the sixth. So memorable to follow up his journey.  “If it looks like a Dwarf, and it smells like a Dwarf, then it's probably a Dwa
This book literally got me cracked up when it comes to the humor of Artemis' stage of growing up xD How smol and so innocent he is back then from the very first book till now the sixth.
"Artemis Fowl with magical powers.”
This book got me mind blow with plot twist and each shocking moments of how I am forgetting that Artemis is a real genius on game board.
Oh God, he is just so whoa...I LOVE HIM EVEN MORE THROUGHOUT THE SERIES <333Yeeeaaass and yeaaaaasss the cliffhanger at the end book really got me hyped for the next book !!!!!!
I like Eoin Colfer - he has some cracking ideas.
However, he is one of the laziest writers I've read in a while.
His work would be so much better if he spend a little time on it; he has the manner of a 10 year old boy with a brilliant idea, desperate to gush it all out before it's lost.There is no excuse for a children's book to be shoddy.
I'm not ashamed of reading children's books, but I do wish authors would try a little harder.
Colfer has a good mind and a great deal of potential to write well...
going, even though they don't really have the inspiration or will to do so anymore (in this case: "Eoin Colfer is pulling the Artemis Fowl series by the hair!"), so they just introduce increasingly ridiculous plot points.
Enough said.So like I said, this series has begun to be pulled by the hair with the introduction of YET ANOTHER problem that might expose the Fae world to the humans.
If fae-exposing issues arise so often, how did they deal with them before Artemis, to whom they run asking for help every time?
Reading too many Eoin Colfer books too close together doesn't seem to help in appreciating them. There's something about the tone and such that just starts to get on my nerves after two or three of his books. Still, Artemis Fowl is still fun, and while this book didn't contain many surprises, I quite liked the new characters, and I'm interested to see what happens in future. Minerva should be interesting, and I hope Number One shows up again. And Doodah, maybe.Other than that, though, I don't have much to say.
In this installment, we see Artemis coming to the aid of demonkind, the seventh fairy race that has become lost in time due to a warlock spell gone wrong. The Artemis Fowl series continues to get more complex with each book. The time travel element is surely confusing to its younger readers. And now we have an aged Artemis with a stronger connection to Holly Short. Can't wait to see their continuing adventures together.
What's weird is that this was the first of the series I'd unwittingly picked up from the library at a whim– only to devour it in one go and proceed to buy all four preceding books the very next day. Eternally grateful to Artemis Fowl for being one of the major contributors to my bookworm evolution.
MY ABSOLUTE FAVORITE SO FAR!!!!!!
If you have read the other books in the series this is a great continuation of them.
First of all, it is filled with humorous and witty comments, even in the most dire situations Eoin Colfer finds room to fit them.
You will find yourself laughing outloud to yourself when reading.
Another great thing about this book is that it takes you on and adventure and it starts off right away, there's no waiting to get to the climax because the whole book is exciting.
So if you are looking for a humorous and adventurous story, this would be a great one to check out.
tooooooo ducking far
I LOVE THIS SERIES! The way Eoin Colfer raises the stakes with every book while deepening the characters and their relationships is so amazing. So good, I didn't want to put it down.
I didn’t really develop any connection with her, so (view spoiler)[ I don’t really care that she doesn’t play any role in the subsequent Artemis Fowl books.
In Taiwan, the plot twist comes along: (view spoiler)[ Butler fails to save Artemis.
It’s not catching when everything works out conveniently for the heroes, and that usually happens in this series (as in most books).
He’s pretty much there to make things even more convenient in future books.Overall, it was decent.
Fantastic. I loved it!
As always I loved this addition to the Artemis Fowl series but it wasn't as good as the previous books. Still a really great read, though!
I really like this book because it has a lot of action and adventure which are two of my favorite genres in books. My favorite part of the book was when Artemis fell through the a time tunnel and became young again. Then at the end he met up with his friend he was separated from a long time ago. The barely recognized each other. I recommend this book to people who like action and adventure.
Loved this one, and loved the ending! Fascinating turn of events.
He's not trying to dominate the crime world, or stuff his family's bank accounts with a stupid amount of money, or even making things difficult for the People.
He's just...a kid who wants to help out his friends--albeit a genius who can run quantum dynamics equations through his head in the span of seconds, but still a kid.
The evolution of Artemis and Holly's relationship is probably at its peak in this book as well.
Not only does she give Artemis a run for his money in terms of brainpower, but she's a girl.
The Artemis Fowl books have continued to be a great series to read.
A few pages into the book though I am always hooked again; this continues to be the case.In this book Artemis calculates that the time warped island that demons live on is slowly unraveling.
A girl Artemis's age, name Minerva, kidnaps the displaced demon in hopes of completing research on the demon and hopefully winning the Noble Prize.
Minerva is the perfect female counterpart to Artemis and No.1, who revels in his new found English vocabulary, is a hoot.
I look forward to reading the next book in the series.
Book five in the Artemis Fowl series.When the fairy folk decided to live underground to keep their world a secret from humans, the Demons refused to join them.
Instead, the Demons chose to move their island home to another dimension where they could hide until they were strong enough to defeat the humans.
The island ended up in Limbo and the Demons were trapped indefinitely.
Artemis figures out where the Demons are likely to appear and makes plans to capture one.
He is flabbergasted when someone else gets there first and grabs "his" Demon.
I started these a couple of years ago and have worked through this, the fifth and most recent book, in the Artemis Fowl series.
These books are simply fantastic, hilarious mixtures of technology and mythology, and a 12-year-old (when the series begins) Richie Rich type Irish kid who happens to be the most brilliant criminal mind to come down the pipe since Lex Luthor.
These will probably end up being dated for their ultra-up-to-date technological bent (much like C.S. Lewis' Space Trilogy is now dated, yet still wonderful to read), but they're clever and highly entertaining books, and everyone should get into one or two.
This was the only Artemis Fowl book that has confused me so much I had to re-read the finale to figure out what happened.Even so, it was very interesting, with the introduction of Nº1, a demon who feels out-of-place in his bloodthirsty world.One thing Eoin Colfer knows how to do is end a book. The last pages of his works inspire you to wish you had the sequel in your hands. This one is not only no exception.Of all the series, this one is probably the most pretentious. But that's only minorly off-putting. All things considered, the book is awesome.
While I very much love this series, I had found it difficult to finish this book when I read it. I got half way through and just stopped, which is weird because this is my second favourite series. But I do feel that there was just a little too much going on for me, and a lot of new characters. And, on a personal side, I didn't at all enjoy Minerva. She didn't even grow on me like characters usually do. But there are some interesting developments that are key in book too and definitely worth the read.
Realized this is probably the series that started me on sci-fi in my early teens. Still good, still funny. The Harry Potter of most alternate timelines
It is a great book packed full of adventure and wit. If you like excitement in your books this is a good book to read.
THE BEST BOOK OF THE SERIES SO FARThe putting of no 1 was pretty clever eion colfer(i guess that's how you write it)
His parallel Mulch is right there with him, working as a private investigator in the Lower Elements with Holly and actually enjoying it!!!The book was another great instalment in the Artemis Fowl series, but I feel as though the plot slowed down a lot because of all the new technical details.
It appeared that Colfer wanted to create an equal for Artemis (just in time for him to develop a romantic interest since he's going through puberty).
And while Minerva is definitely a twelve-year genius in her own right, she is far from Artemis' equal.
