https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33484.The_Conquering_Sword_of_Conan
The plot of the most stories can be outlined in the following way.
Conan flees from his imprisonment by Picts and stumbles right into a dispute over some treasure between different pirate groups.
The barbarian shows up fairly late in the story with almost half of which is spent on the pirate groups trying to double-cross each other.
The second one can be considered as a final version, but it stops right in the middle of the tale; the last two lines of the first draft tell how the story would end, but no details are given.
Certainly, there is much more of Howard the American in them--the stories are more personal to his experiences, but mixing them with the Conan mythos does them no favors.Beyond that, the wild Picts, a 'White race who are not called White' become just another example of over-romanticized natives, that White-guilt urge to go 'back to nature', while at the same time painting the natives as both less and more than human, both pitied and put on a pedestal, but never actually considered as more than an image, a grand symbol for the spiritual enrichment of Whiteness.The sexual politics are likewise troubled: though Valeria is in some ways a refreshing figure--she is actually competent, seeks her own equality, is skilled with a sword--in other ways she’s more constrained than many of the other female figures in Conan stories.
On a side note, are their any Conan stories that don't involve a giant snake and/or an ape man of some sort?Beyond the Black River: Conan leads a foray into Pictish territory in order to defend a fort.
Unfortunately, his raiding party runs afoul of a Pictish shaman who's unifying the local tribes in order to overrun the fort.BBR reads like a story of white settlers against the Indians.
Unfortunately for the pirates, a certain Cimmerian has already found the treasure...The Black Stranger was well written but didn't grab me like the previous two stories.
Howard Conan stories.
It wasn't until I was an adult that I actually got around to reading the REAL Conan stories and learned what sword and sorcery fiction is all about.I tell you that story to tell you this story: When I was a kid, I had no safe zone.
I wasn't physically abused at home (thank goodness), but I was told I was worthless, that I was a mistake, that I was a failure, and that I should kill myself.
So, even though I hadn't read Howard, I knew who Conan was through his pastiches, and he was my escape.
I like this for two reasons: Firstly it allows us to see how Howard developed and exactly when he fell into a formula, and when he again tried different things to still make that formula interesting; and because it feels more naturalistic this way, like we're listening to an old bard tell us stories from various points in Conan's life, in a non-linear fashion depending on his mood and disposition.I noticed something when reading the stories in this order, too.
Howard's "Conan" stories have a legendary aura around them, but some of their mystique comes from the horrible pastiches written like Conan - and later stuff like DeCamp's actual Conan stories themselves, most of which are sub-par.
DAW's third book concludes the Conan cycle with the last bits of uncut, completely raw stories, all as Howard would want them.Conan stories are best when they capture and magify the gloomy, headstrong personality of the creator, and two of the stories in here, "Beyond the Black River" and "Red Nails" do it perfectly.
But the name of Howard's game is passion and lust for life, and since it's something none of his emulators even come close to achieving, the source is the only way to go.
This series was considerably better than I thought it would be. Definitely a staple for fantasy readers.
But the publisher’s decision to present these stories over three volumes in the order they were written instead of chronological order was the right one, I believe, as it is wonderful to see Howard’s skills as a writer grow.This volume, the final set of the Conan saga, includes only five stories, evidence of the lengthening and growing complexity of the plots and character.
The final story, a short novella really, is Red Nails, considered by many to be the finest Conan tale ever penned by Robert E.
Howard’s suicide just prior to Red Nails being published in serial form in “Weird Tales” just adds to the mystique of the tale.
I'll review the stories from this volume individually.The Servants Of Bit-Yakin: A mediocre-at-best Conan story, and one which I've read a number of times over the years, usually under the title "Jewels Of Gwahlur".
I also liked the undercurrent of Lovecraftian influence as seen in Jhebbal Sag, the forgotten god.The Black Stranger: This one was a lot better than I thought it would be, as I had heard that it was originally written as a Conan story and later rewritten as a story about another character in order to find publication.
Howard felt this was among his most realistic of stories, though it helps that pretty much everyone but Conan and Valeria are completely out of their minds and as such there's a lot of wading through the crazy, often with swords, that feels like a natural byproduct of civilization being leached out of things, like if "Lord of the Flies" had involved adults instead of kids and all those adults were a little too into S&M.
There's a section in the end of the book where one of the essays talks about Howard's turn towards drawing from his Texan surroundings to make materials for stories, and that's definitely evident in "Beyond the Black River." When I was reading the story, I kept thinking that Howard's Picts are pretty much the textbook settler picture of Native Americans, with the eagle feathers and the painted faces and the savage rites and the murdering everyone for no reason.
It makes me wonder what else we would have seen in further Conan stories if Howard had lived.The essays at the end also make a good point about "Red Nails"--it's the ultimate example of Howard's view of civilization.
But Howard was growing tired of writing Conan stories, or at least disassociated with the character.
Beyond the Black River could have been set on the Texas frontier, The Black Stranger the coast of North Carolina during the Golden Age of Piracy, Red Nails Aztec Mexico at the discovery of the New World.George R.R. Martin has been called the American Tolkien.
He isn’t acting nearly as intentionally as Tolkien was, but Howard does something much the same for Texas.Take Conan’s love interests.
In Beyond the Black River it isn’t just the love interest.Warning settlers of the impending Pict invasion, the first cabin just holds one woman.
Wow! I've never read anything quite like Conan. It was so much different - and *so* much better - than the dumbed down brutish pop culture interpretations of the barbarian character that I'd seen. Honestly, Howard's writing style is so explosive that I think the writing alone is some of the best I've ever read. Even when a story may be leading to a somewhat predictable end, Howard's descriptions and detail make these weird tales more exciting than most movies.I will be eagerly looking for more Howard books and collections after this. Fantastic book.
I quite enjoyed the first two volumes in the series, and, based on the gushing introduction, I had high expectations for this volume as it was said to contain some of Howard's most lauded Conan stories written.
All that moaning aside: I really did enjoy the first two volumes, so I am not just bashing the author, or character.
That said, it's not surprising Conan stories have done so well in comic/magazine format, which are a far more acceptable format for dialogue like this:"Do not look at the skull!
Do not look at the skull!" It was a far cryfrom across unreckoned voids.Valeria shook herself like a lion shaking his mane.
The Conquering Sword of Conan merupakan salah satu daripada tiga buku koleksi yang menghimpunkan kesemua karya asli Robert E.
Buku ini juga merupakan buku yang terakhir dan pelengkap kepada koleksi ini.Di dalam buku kali ini,terdapat lima buah cerita pendek,iaitu: a) The Servants of Bit-Yakinb) Beyond the Black Riverc) The Black Strangerd) The Man-Eaters of Zamboulae) Red NailsTurutan cerita-cerita ini disusun adalah berdasarkan kepada cerita yang ditulis terlebih dahulu oleh Howard.
Selain itu,sebagai bonus,turut disertakan beberapa manuskrip yang berkaitan seperti draf-draf,sinopsis-sinopsis,dan apendiks.Saya bukanlah seorang yang boleh dianggap peminat tegar karya tulisan mendiang Howard.
Hal ini kerana buku koleksi ini juga menampilkan beberapa ilustrasi yang dilukis oleh Gregory Manchess.
Sememangnya sebuah buku yang wajib dimiliki oleh para peminat Howard!
Having read the old 1-12 series of Conan paperbacks religiously when I was teenager and going back to re-read the stories from time to time I was VERY happy when these were put back into print in nice and inexpensive volumes that were unedited pure Robert E.
Howard written versions of the stories.
Conan is a much deeper character than the public, even those that have read Conan, seem to understand.
As well as Howard does not get the credit he deserves from the mainstream.
I don't know, I have the hard back but it wasn't listed... This is the third volume of the three volume set of Howard's versions of the Conan stories. It contains:"The Servants of Bit-Yakin" Beyond the Black River The Black Stranger "The Man-Eaters of Zamboula" Red Nails Untitled Notes: "The Westermark: ..." "Wolves Beyond the Border", Draft A "Wolves Beyond the Border", Draft B The Black Stranger, Synopsis A The Black Stranger, Synopsis B "The Man-Eaters of Zamboula", Synopsis Red Nails, Draft Plus other writings of interest. Conan was good when he was first published he's still good today.
So, confession, I love the Schwarzenegger Conan movie. Seriously, love it. But that was really my only exposure to the Conan stories until this collection came into my hands. Howard is brilliant in these longer stories. His use of language and imagery is brilliant, his characters are well-crafted, and the stories are perfectly paced adventures. They're very much a product of their time, but also timeless in their commentary on the nature of humanity, monsters, and the line between civilization and barbarism.
YES!! the Conan stories restored to their original texts. Read Conan as Howard intended him to be. You will find that Conan is more than just a big semi-naked barbarian with a sword. He speaks and reads many languages and thinks his way through a lot of what he encounters. But then when that doesn't work he can swing a sword with the best of them. Highly recommended
This collection contains longer Conan works, including "By the Black River", in which Howard laid out many of his theories and thoughts about the decadence of the civilized world.
Howard Conan stories, we have the final piece of proof, should any more be needed, that this is how anyone and everyone interested in reading Conan should do so.I could leave this review right there but reading these books lead to research and contemplation, which leads to the following…Speaking to the “coauthored” Conan stories and the dozens of pastiches, I present a fine article by Dashiell Hammett Tour leader, Don Herron:http://www.donherron.com/?page_id=1539Written all the way back in 1977, this article does the right thing by running L.
I listened to the first two short stories, felt like I got the point and wasn't interested in listening to more.
I was how Gygax could have pulled a lot of inspiration from Conan; however, I found the books themselves a little dull, despite their fast paced nature.Let me explain, Conan solves pretty much all his problems the same way, with his sword.
I also don't like that the stories are short and unconnected.
It meant I had little investment pushing me to read the next story, especially since Conan himself is such a bland character in the first place.
This is the 3rd and final set in this series of the complete Conan tales from Robert E.
I said much about this collection as a whole and Robert E.
Howard as an author in my review of the first book.
Perhaps it was the novelty of reading these influential classics the first time that wasn't present, or maybe I just preferred the stories of the 1st book as a whole.
The stories in this 3rd collection are all at least good.
However, the final tale Red Nails, is a masterpiece and one of the best from any of the collections.
The synopsis was also informative as to Howard's personal life, beliefs and the motivating factors behind many of his stories.I have noted some here criticizing Howards word choices or speculating on racism and/or misogyny; however, we cannot expect an 80+-year-old story to read the same as a modern one, this is not a matter of good or bad, it is a matter of societal norms at the time of creation you acknowledge the issue and move on.
You cannot write a serious review of a classic work when you restrict them to modern societal standards.
This is the book series I chose to read the Conan stories in. I'm sure there were probably others to chose from, but I stand behind this one. Enjoyed all of the stories in this collection, but had a little trouble getting into "The Black Stranger" which spends a bit too much time following characters that are not Conan, almost to the point where I wondered if it was a Conan story at all. The illustrations and appendices are interesting, although I'm not sure if reading a draft of "Red Nails" is all that interesting.
Beyond the Black River has to be the most devastating story of the whole saga. I will most definitely be coming back to it in the near future... Can't get enough of Balthus and Slasher...
Great finish of the series of Conan adventures. Stories within vary much in length and quality.
Final Howard Conan stories. Great stuff!!
At last, Howard offers his uncompromising view of civilization against the contrast of barbarism in two tales taken from this collection: "The Black Stranger" and "Red Nails".
Indeed, there can be no doubting its veracity even during the ancient time when Howard envisioned this story taking place.Another tale, "Beyond the Black River", offers a similar view in much plainer language.
Nessa história, que se passa na fronteira estilo “velho oeste” entre os reinos da “Red Nails” é outra obra-prima de Howard, um conto que cresce a cada nova leitura, cheio de referências bibliográficas e uma espécie de palavra final no eterno tema de Howard da civilização versus barbarismo.
Uma paixão e energia que é palpável nos escritos, que é visível pelos adjetivos que polvilham a narrativa, pela emoção visceral das fantásticas cenas de ação.Fica a recomendação, é uma leitura obrigatória para fãs do gênero.
