https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294609.Antic_Hay
My men, like satyrs grazing on the lawns,Shall with their goat-feet dance the antic hayEdward II by Christopher Marlowe    This is Brenda Salkeld dancing the antic hay. Orwell had recommended Antic Hay to her in the 1930s, but alas she wouldn't dance with him.Huxley wanted to dance with Nancy Cunard but she likened his advances to being crawled over by slugs. Nancy Cunard & slugSo he crawled away and he wrote this zany and very smart satire. The characters Myra Viveash and Theodore Gumbril
Orwell had recommended Antic Hay to her in the 1930s, but alas she wouldn't dance with him.Huxley wanted to dance with Nancy Cunard but she likened his advances to being crawled over by slugs.
Nancy Cunard & slugSo he crawled away and he wrote this zany and very smart satire.
The characters Myra Viveash and Theodore Gumbril Jr are based on Nancy Cunard and Huxley.
Grief doesn’t kill, love doesn’t kill; but time kills everything, kills desire, kills sorrow, kills in the end the mind that feels them; wrinkles and softens the body while it still lives, rots it like a medlar, kills it too at last.
Huxley wrote this book in 2 months.
A mad world exists for those who dare to have mad dreams… And they dance through their lives trying to invent, to love, to find happiness and their dance is called Antic Hay.Most lovers picture to themselves, in their mistresses, a secret reality, beyond and different from what they see every day.
They are in love with somebody else – their own invention.
And sometimes there is a secret reality; and sometimes reality and appearance are the same.
The discovery, in either case, is likely to cause a shock.When one is a dreamer the world is a kaleidoscope of ideas and a firework of expectations… And it is better not to wake up.
I found the book easy to read and digest, and an interesting look at the time period as well as human nature in general.Recommended for: people who know that the more things change the more they stay the same, people who need to be reminded that they are not, by any stretch of the imagination, the first to feel unmoored.Quote: "[W]ould a man with unlimited leisure be free, Mr. Gumbril?
The ordinary man can't leave them.
One senses that Huxley was aiming for a little mordant social satire when he wrote this book, to capture the Zeitgeist while landing a few deft jabs at British society in the aftermath of World War I.
There is no discernible plot - instead, various stock characters are dragged in and out of the action, essentially caroming off one another in a fairly random fashion.
While the reader is left baffled as to what the hell Huxley might be trying to convey.I think the answer is that Huxley doesn't really have anything much coherent to say, in this dull and annoying book.
Since there's no plot to speak of, eventually it just sort of peters out.


My Vintage Classics edition of Antic Hay describes it as “wickedly funny” and perhaps, to those reading it around 1923, when it was first published, this social satire seemed the height of hilarity.
The lack of any real story is, for a work of fiction, a serious limitation, and one I struggled with.
This is a helpful shortcut to understanding the book, and much faster than reading the book.As Charles Bukowski reminds us, “An intellectual says a simple thing in a hard way.
An artist says a hard thing in a simple way.” In Antic Hay, Huxley was more intellectual than artist.
I feel a little ambivalent about this novel; some parts were really quite amusing but others were merely tedious and I found that the boring bits seemed to outweigh the interesting passages on average.
No more weak willed doormat, this new and improved Theodore Gumbril is going to be a successful and dominant man - obviously a killer with the ladies too and for that he'll need a big bushy beard!The 'Man About Town' sections were the funniest in the book, the woman who acts as a Bored Socialite foil to his Artistic Persona; so they merrily deceive each other.
It nearly but not quite made up for all of the other more tedious sections and characters.
Well, I haven't the foggiest idea what all that was, but it's over now.
“If Antic Hay escapes uncastigated and unpilloried the effect upon English fiction will be disastrous...We shall have herds of literary rats exploring every sewer...The cloacre of vice will be dredged for fresh infamies...The novel will creep and crawl with the vermin of diseased imaginations.
(Review in The Sunday Express, 25 Nov. 1923)The Sunday Express may not have been fulsome in its praise, but Antic Hay is a fine novel, with a wonderful mixture of classical erudition and lost generation lowlife.
The Sunday Express damns Huxley for his blasphemy and impropriety, but acknowledges that there is a “brainless school ready to cackle and chuckle over his fescennine acrobatics”.
Huxley was the first author I picked up when I ventured out of the YA section at 11 or so.
As with other Huxley the conversations are carefully crafted and more intelligent than those of us 21st century folk, with lots of foreign phrases and witty references.
As a preteen, I thought this was what adulthood would be like - frankly, I was disappointed (though not sure if I'd be able to keep up with the conversation anyhow).Closing thoughts: the character I'd most like to hang with is Coleman, and I would like to see an "I glory in the name of earwig" tshirt.
Huxley is in that category of writers I don't really find very satisfactory for the most part, but who possess some quality I enjoy.
His novels are very readable, often intellectually scintillating, contain superb satire, and eventually come to a point where the wry, sardonic tone is abandoned for serious empathy with the plight of at least one character.This is an early effort with all of the above qualities, but in fairly small quantities -- kind of a Brave New World-lite.
It is, by the way, mentioned in Evelyn Waugh's Brideshead Revisited as one of the "hot" popular novels in the 1920s with young intellectual types.
I read this book because Lois Gordon's excellent biography of Nancy Cunard cites it.
Huxley apparently had a brief liason with Cunard and then made her a character in this book.
I wish I could recognize the other players, all of whom were given absurd and suggestive names in Antic Hay.
(Cunard is Mrs. Viveash.) It's largely satirical, and in equal measure bilious and hilarious.
The writing is sharp and vivid, but the overall tone suggests the depth of disillusion that resulted from the disaster of the first world war.
In that way, this is an acute portrait of the period.
The first great novel of Huxley dealing with the disenchantment of affluent Britain with all kinds of belief systems leading to utter wastefulness and decadence. Huxley carefully dissects the idle pursuits that consume the rich and the famous, their boredom with everything, the lack of any meaning in their lives and the concomitant chaos that ensues.
The novel starts slowly, and when the protagonist, Gumbril, meets his intellectual and arty friends in London and thus introduces us to them, I almost despaired.
Yes, it's still a satire on the kind of people in the Bloomsbury set, but it begins to have more feeling, and I could empathise with characters.In many ways this books is similar to Chrome Yellow.
If this book had been as long as Chrome Yellow, and had concentrated more on character development, then it might have been as entertaining as Chrome Yellow.Nonetheless, it was entertaining enough to keep me reading, and picked up just at the right point to prevent me dropping it.
Really enjoyed this comic satire of a set of 1920s middle/upper class bohemian drifters - not unsympathetic characters - in the aftermath of the First World War. I didn't know what to expect when I picked it up, was rather dreading melodrama and exaggeration ala Evelyn Waugh but did not find it. In fact, the characters have enough warmth and the scenes are imbued with enough life, comedy and verisimilitude to keep one turning the pages until the end. I read it on one lazy Sunday and was thoroughly impressed. More Huxley please!
Fucking boring...then again, I read it in 11th grade, so eventually I’ll go back and give it another shot, but I remember the dialogue putting me to sleep..
Once I had finished reading Antic Hay I wasn't really sure what it had all been about.
The title Antic Hay is from a quote from Edward II by Christopher Marlowe and refers to a playful dance.
The writing was very good, but I guess you would really need to have moved in the circles described to fully appreciate what he was getting at.
The book was controversial when first published due to its sexual references but by today’s standards it’s pretty tame.
Although I didn’t really enjoy it I did like the writing style so I will definitely try another Huxley.
I usually reference Huxley for philosophy, but I gained more of social economy and cultural commentary from this novel. It's tiny and compact and sweet. Huxley uses the anti-hero canon (in the form of Gumbril Junior) as a perfect foil to the waning, dissolute gilt of post WWI Britain. I fell for Emily hard, even if no one else did. Give her a kiss from me, Aldous.
I was really disappointed with this - I loved Brave New World so I was looking forward to it. Having come to the end, I still don't really know what it was about, there was no real resolution and I didn't like any of the characters enough to care. It seemed a bit of an excuse to write about womanising in the Twenties but with no real point.
Professors and Latin scholars interact with fakes, pretenders, and con-men; it's a small section of London society at that time.
In a different mode than other novels of his that I've read, Huxley paints a witty, humorous portrait of the times, laced with plenty of sharp insights on human nature.
As one of the characters observes, "The real charm about debauchery is its total pointlessness, futility, and above all its incredible tediousness." In a book very much given to a debauched class, the author has to be clever indeed to avoid that tediousness.
What you most need is a love for that dry British humor and their penchant for "sending up" everybody.
E mult mai neinchegata si mai slaba decat "Orb prin Gaza" si "Punct contrapunct" - carti pe care le mentionez fiindca mi se pare ca multe din ideile din "Dans grotesc" sunt dezvoltate ulterior in astea doua.
Cred ca mi-a placut fiindca mi-a amintit de astealalte, ceea ce face sa ma intreb cine ar trebui sa o citeasca - probabil nu cineva nefamiliarizat cu alte carti de Huxley.
Ce mi se pare vag deranjant la asta e ca toate personajele masculine par a fi cumva la fel - vorbesc la fel, se comporta oarecum identic, par a fi aceeasi persoana.
Took a while to read so it seemed to drag a bit.
This was amusing and a bit similar to Crome Yellow in it's making fun of conventions of social niceties which are often rooted in ridiculous efforts of older folk trying to keep youth from enjoying themselves.
It is interesting to see that such silliness of ego and romantic fantasy and foibles existed in the early part of the last century as they did in my youth of the 1980's.
Fun book but dated in parts.
I imagine it would be more enjoyable if I knew French and Latin (characters often speak on those languages for nuance sake).
Quite a quriky novel. Antic Hay seems as odd a book as the realities of each character Huxley creates in it.Why not as upfront in its message about life as Brave New World, Antic Hay does an excellent job of depicting youthful idealism and the tragedy of trying to live up to those ideals.Filled with a cast of 1920s oddballs, this book is one that slaps you with the underlying foolishness of the intellectualism that parades around your mind with pompous words.Antic Hay was fun, thought-provoking, and only slightly full of itself.
Maybe in the 1920s-'30s this novel resonated better with the after-WWI generation. There is a continuous search for something real, for a meaning of life in general, people are just dancing in circles not knowing if there is a finish line or what to expect once they will get there.Actually maybe Huxley knew, but for a nowadays reader it is quite obscure.
A curate's egg, but fascinating. I am intrugued by the period between the wars at the moment. It is a century since that era began, and the literature of the time is so full of questions, transitions, and the development of Modern times.
I understand that this is supposed to be a "book of ideas", but i didn't really find the ideas to be that interesting...
There was some colourful anti-elite imagery but overall it didn't give me the strong Huxley-like imagery that his more well-known works provide.
Aldous visits the dark side and laughs
Despite its lack of plot, Antic Hay is beautifully written and sometimes that is all that matters.
