https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102863.The_Scarlet_Ibis
In my English class we just finished reading this and this short story was just absolutely amazing.
Even though I suspected from about half way through the story that at the end something was going to happen, he was going to push him to hard, he might kill the boy, or the illness would eventually take his brother, but I predicted that Doodle was going to die.
This short story not only is described in beautiful detail, but it tells the struggle of one boy and of his sweet handicapped brother.
That decay is evidenced in the person of Doodle, a little boy who was born with physical defects that might have taken him immediately, but instead left him weak and dependent, the sweetest and kindest of souls, with a brother who is anxious to have a friend and playmate who can run and swim and row and who tries, against all odds to make that happen.There is an element of hope and determination about the story that I love.
Our narrator did not smother his brother in his crib (a thought he claimed to have had), and his life was richer for knowing him, and mine was richer for reading this story.
I believe it is more than just a sob story or a tear jerker.
Brother wasn't as horrible as people think.
Yes, Brother went too far, but there are VERY few people who can say that they hadn't gone too far on certain things, as well.Doodle's death wasn't meant to be just a tear jerker in my opinion, it was supposed to relate to the reader on many levels.
Yes, it was a simple short story, but I think that was the thing that made it such a classic.
I read this around 1997. It was actually a short story in a high school lit book. I had never read it before and it brought me so much sadness. One of my book club friends here on GR has made a suggestion to read it....I am not sure I can read along. All I feel is sadness when I remember it. So, I guess I read it 20 years ago....would I feel differently today??? I doubt it. But...it is a great read. I highly recommend it.
Why do I keep reading books like this? I'm tired of (view spoiler)[sad endings. I don't want to read another book about someone learning the hard way! Being so darn selfish and the rest of the book being so beautiful. Talk about depressing! (hide spoiler)] I don't even know how to rate this. But, I now know why around forty% of high schoolers never read another book after they leave school. If this is what books consist of, I too, would never read another. The writing skills have nothing to do w
Why do I keep reading books like this?
I'm tired of (view spoiler)[sad endings.
I don't want to read another book about someone learning the hard way!
Being so darn selfish and the rest of the book being so beautiful.
Talk about depressing!
(hide spoiler)] I don't even know how to rate this.
But, I now know why around forty% of high schoolers never read another book after they leave school.
If this is what books consist of, I too, would never read another.
I desperately need some hot chocolate it get me over this morbidly gloomy book.
I read this book about 5years ago when I was in high school and I shed tears after reading it.
It starts out so unimposing then delves into this deep, meaningful and profound narrative.
I haven't been that moved since.
The ibis is a metaphor, well, eventually it becomes a metaphor.
It was a symbolic foreshadowing, quite excellently executed.
It's a short story.
I can't explain much more about it without revealing the entire story.
Brother, I felt your pain.
I felt your woe.
I loved your narrative.
I loved Doodle too.
Everyone who is anyone needs to read this story.
This is hauntingly beautiful in every single possible way. Compiled with characters that feel so incredibly real and excellent symbolism to instill a feeling of thorough captivation, this work of art is probably my favorite short story of the year. And I've read many; from The Most Dangerous Game to A Sound of Thunder. Excellent and I recommend it wholeheartedly.
I cried, and i loved it, but it just shows how realistic the world is and not every innocent person can survive.
"It was in the clove of seasons, summer was dead but autumn had not yet been born, that the ibis lit in the bleeding tree.1 The flower garden was strained with rotting brown magnolia petals and ironweeds grew rank amid the purple phlox."purple phloxironweeds"...
This never failed to make him try again.""Finally one day, after many weeks of practicing, he stood alone for a few seconds.
How many miles it had traveled to die like this, in our yard, beneath the bleeding tree"
I haven't read this whole book, haven't even known of its existence until minutes ago.
But here is my review and amount of stars reserved for Scarlet Ibis.A review for Scarlet Ibis:People always see themselves as the victim until too late.In this book, we have Brother.
I longed and longed for a little brother to play and run around with.
He wants his little brother to be able to run and swim and do things more.
So when his little brother can't do what he wants him to do, Brother runs away when his little brother needed him.
I don't think it was because his little brother couldn't do it.
I don't think it was just me who felt this way, I mean I looked over and saw half of my friends trying to do the same.
The deep symbolism that was embedded in it, made a much more complex meaning and made me ponder on it more than I would have.
There were many things I connected with, and this sort reassured me I will never leave my sister behind.
I think this story shows great writing skills, and symbolism was definately the key to it.
I rated this story 4 stars, because in a way, I think it was almost TOO brutally honest.
And while most readers (like my whole class) will agree that his death was all Brother's fault (I really wish the author had given us a proper name for the narrater) I was able to sympathize with him, and I think that in the end, he got off alot worse than Doodle.
I think the bird symbolism was wonderful, especially at the end when Brother calls Doodle his "little scarlet ibis".
I think the story could've done with an epilogue, but maybe it was better that it ended bluntly that way: "...sheilding my little scarlet ibis from the heresey of rain."
Loved the symbolism in this book.The message in the book was brilliant.It was sad to think that the older brother did certain actions because of his pride, and how he did not want an "invalid" as a brother. The way the scarlet Ibis and the little brother related to eachother...how the Ibis died even though it's come a long way...just brilliant. Loved it.
This was one of the few story we took in class that enjoyed, I was literally going to tear up.
Had to keep it in.I loved the way that the author had connected the Ibis to Doodle.
Doodle is basically a helpless child who was a huge disappointment to the family but mostly to his brother.
Although Doodle's brother was such an asshole, I sort of understand his twin personality.One second he would be like and after a momentI hate doodle though, if I was his sister I'd kill him for no reason at all.
One cannot deny that is a good short story, I was disappointed though.
this is a short story that I read in my language arts class and I really liked it. Its a story about a young boy who is making his way through life only to have something horrible happen to him. Reads it to find out what it is.Reading this story will make you think of the world in a different way. Also it will change the way you see the ending of most books.This is a book I reccommend to people who want to have a different type of story to read.
I just read this book in my freshman class and I loved it. The detail and the literary work used by James Hurst is amazing. The descriptions and the visual pictures that are painted into your brain are just amazing. I almost cried when the father wanted to have a casket made for the baby that he was assuming the worst for and lived. We haven't read the last five pages but so far so good!!!! :)
I thought that this was a good quick read. It is only thirty-six pages long, has no chapters, and a picture every couple of pages. Although the pictures are well drawn, I would not suggest looking at more than three of them PRIOR to reading the book. It would ruin the story. Again, go ahead and read it, it's a good book. But it is very sad. -Julianne
A story of two young brothers, the younger one (Doodle) being born disabled and his older brothers desire to push him to his full potential. You're left asking yourself does he do it for love or for his own selfish reasons? This story made me cry and left me stunned.
The Scarlet Ibis was a very interesting short story because, it was sraight to the point.Although it was straight to the point, it time to let you get to know the characters and you can see how you are like them.
Some people thought this story was heartening, which I can see, but personally, I found this book to be horribly sad and depressing. I can't believe Doodle died! And so close to being able to show his parents what he was capable of!
I LOVE DOODLE
This was a great story... they only problem was that I had to read it in class so I didn't have any tissues to wipe away the tears! :(
Even more depressing as a reread. Why I read things like this, I'll never know.
Brother developed as a character because at the beginning of the story he absolutely hated his little brother, Doodle, but in the end he realized how much he loved him and that he should’ve never let his pride get the best of him.
Brother develops a theme to this dramatic story, which is that you should never let your pride get the best of you because later on in life it will most likely return and bite in the back.
While I had always remembered how devastated I had felt at the ending of the story, I was too young when I first read it to appreciate how well Hurst creates an environment that is at once inviting and haunting.
Like the narrator in the story, my husband struggled with the force role of caregiver to his brother.
(Although, my husband's role was much more than that of the narrator.) Revisiting The Scarlet Ibis was a welcome homecoming.
Go back, take a look at an old high school story and see what you find.
I liked the short story, “The Scarlet Ibis”, because I believe it has good themes such as caring for your family and not judging people too quickly.
The story is about a boy who has a little brother, named Doodle, who has some complications and the boy has to deal with these complications and try to fix them.
At the beginning of the story the brother doesn’t like Doodle.
This change in character development helps bring out the theme in the story.
It brings out the theme of caring for others and to not judge people too quickly.
He stays the same in his selfish ways and feels as if his brother is a disappointment.
This makes the plot worse because instead of being calm and having confidence with Doodle, he reacts in a bad manner of Doodles disorder which leads to Doodle still being seen as a disappointment because he can’t do normal things.Brother did not develop in the story until Doodles death.
He stays the same in his selfish ways and thinks of his brother as a disappointment.
Brother is a static character because he does not develop nor change throughout the story.
However, the love between these two brothers is very strong and the innocence of childhood sweet, even if that innocence is sometimes selfish.
What makes this story so tragic is the fact that "brother" doesn't have the chance to make things right.
He let his selfish emotions take over him for just a moment, making him leave Doodle alone.
"Brother" loved Doodle, he wanted him to succeed, we know this from the moment Doodle smiles from the crib.
What occurred was sad, but in no way a reflection of the love these brothers' had for one another.
The story was quite intricate, emotions built into each word printed on the page.
I felt for both brothers in this story, knowing the pain of having a family member who can't do everything you want them to.
The brother seemed like such a villain, but having already been in the boy's shoes, I knew that he loved his brother all the same, and only wanted to best for him.I nearly cried at the end, and only being inside a classroom filled with others my age kept me form doing so.
This was required reading for my Junior year in high school.
We finished this story just as the bell rang and I ran out of the classroom so no one could see me crying.
The emotion that is packed into such a short story is beyond description and to this day I have a copy of this book on my bookshelf, untouched, because I am afraid of re-reading it and breaking down all over again.This is the standard I set for myself when I try my hand at serious prose.
If I could coax even a third of the emotion from one of my readers that James Hurst had brought out in me, I would know true literary success.
