https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/584608.Language_Truth_and_Logic
Every problem you’ve ever asked about philosophy will be answered!SOC: Wow, that sounds impressive… How does it work?AYER: It’s simple!
You’re saying that because you can’t figure out a way to solve the problem, it’s not a real problem?AYER: Exactly!
Isn’t that great?SOC: Really, is that all you have to do?AYER: Well, you have to wave your hand around a bit, but that’s the general idea.SOC: Hmm, how about another problem, like ethics.
What do logical positivists say about what it means to do the right or wrong thing?AYER: Ethics?
For example, how do logical positivists deal with the question of truth?AYER: Oh, Socrates, you ask the silliest questions!
To predict tomorrow's weather, I need not take into account the state of mind of the Emperor of Manchukuo.I remember this book fondly, for in the hauteur of my youth I identified with the author's arguments in toto perhaps because I was the same age as he when he'd written this book.Ayer operates from an absolute position: all legitimate knowledge is empirical knowledge and everything that exists outside the realm of the senses is mythical mumbo-jumbo one will do well to get rid of.
A work that usefully lays out some of the key arguments for seeing the status of metaphysical knowledge as being crucially dependent on the theory of meaning.
The arguments (and, especially, the rhetorical maneuvers) provided by this book have crucially contributed to the linguistic turn in 20th century thought, which was a philosophical approach aimed at reducing metaphysical questions to questions about the proper use of symbolism.
The great problems of metaphysics aren't even fiction; they are nonsense.Ayer proposes his verification criterion of meaning as a universal acid test of valid philosophical theorizing.
Polemical? Yes. Dogmatic? Sure. Pretentious? Absolutely.This is still among my favorite books of all time. You will never look at the world the same way ever again after reading it. It changed my life. And for the better.
All the difficulties that had perplexed me were instantly removed?"The views which are put forward in this treatise derive from the doctrines of Bertrand Russell and Wittgenstein, which are themselves the logical outcome of the empiricism of Berkeley and David Hume.Ayer starts by defining a few terms: A sentence is factually significant if, and only if, we know how to verify the proposition it purports to express that is, if we know what observations would lead us to accept the proposition as true or reject it as false.

But as posited values precisely stipulated, they are nevertheless amenable to analysis regarding what factual steps are necessary as means to obtain the said, posited end.***Ayer’s argument then seems to morph into a different sort of philosophical (scientific?) analysis that asks about the reasons why one might hold such beliefs such as, “What are the moral habits of a given person or group of people, and what causes them to have precisely those habits and feelings?
Recommended by Julia Galef on the Ezra Klein Show podcast: Julia Galef on how to argue better and change your mind more [Stitcher, iTunes, Overcast] along with The Robot’s Rebellion: Finding Meaning in the Age of Darwin and Seeing like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed.
He basically repeats (and quotes) Hume's dictum that if a work contains neither analytical tautologies nor empirically-verifiable assertions then one should use it as Winter fuel.
One could use evolutionary science to say that these can be reduced to utilitarian or adaptive predispositions of the physical brain, but this seems a stretch to me.
It seems to me to be emergent, and therefore legitimately to involve operations which cannot be reduced to evolutionary or neural empirical statements.Unfortunately, the work is a bit dry and not all that easy to follow.
I have, however, read many other books since by the Logical Positivists (Schlick, Neurath, etc.) and their descendants and relations in the Analytic tradition, and I found them generally much better than this book.
After reading the Logical Positivists, I always found it difficult to understand the slighting remarks toward that position by actual philosophers (as opposed to the religious); it seemed to be a caricature of their position.
After reading Ayer, I can see that it was a self-caricature – if most English speaking philosophers owed their first knowledge of Logical Positivism to Ayer and this book in particular, I can understand why they rejected it without much ceremony.
This book really changed my thinking on many philosophical issues. Ayer argues that if a statement is to be meaningful, it must be either analytic or capable of being verified empirically. Anything else (ie metaphysics or ethics) is essentially bullshit. Or rather(to use an example) don't bother staying up all night worrying if god exists or not or whether objective facts exist(real nightmare for me personally) : the question itself is senseless.The beauty of this book is that it is clear, concise and straightforward. A great book.
A read of this book made it immediately clear why it's a foundational text of the positivist movement. Ayer's thought is strikingly clear and his logic is incisive, dealing the metaphysical idols a mighty blow. While it's my opinion that Russell and Quine successfully resuscitate the non-strictly empirical, this text and Ayer's principle of verification still give the reader a roadmap by which one's sentences may be said to be intelligible or not. As such, it's a great read and of interest to anyone intrigued by philosophy of language.
My high rating here comes not from the fact that I agree with Ayer -- I certainly do not -- but that he's written an important, meaningful book.
You will never look at the world the same way ever again after reading it. It changed me and I think it will change others too.
Logical positivsm. That's all I can say.
Analytic statements are tautologies, definitions of particular experiences which are either true or false by non-contradiction based on how they are defined.
All this is an updated version of David Hume's distinction between relations of ideas and matters of fact but with logical rather than psychological language.Ayer invokes the old Epicurean argument against those who say that the senses are flawed, limited, or only give us an incomplete picture of reality.
The verification principle refers to any conditions from experience prior to determination that can be made into statements, whether analytic or synthetic.

This was one of the course literature books when I was studying philosophy at the University of Lund. All my philosophy books were in a small bookshelf in the room that my sisters used to live in before they moved away from home. The room was painted yellow and faced south. I still own most of these books, they are probably in storage at my sister's place back in Sweden after my mother died and the house I grew up in was sold. I can't really remember the content of this particular book, only its cover.
logical positivism. verificationism. yaknow. superseded by popper's falsificationism. subject to the critique that the principle of verification is not subject to verification (nor however is popper's falsification doctrine self-reflexive, of course). despite all of its problems, there is something attractive about the basic premise that certain statements are so stupid that they don't even count. 'god exists.' huh? that has no truth value. revise & resubmit!
This is the book that helped turn me into an expressivist.
People object to the word "truth" being limited to rational endeavours, and this book is not wishy washy about where truth lies: there may be some evocation of sympathy in the novelist's or poet's art, but this is simply not the same tier of truth as that of the propositional calculus, and if some writing is not attempting to evoke an aesthetic sense, and it doesn't allow for its propositions to be tested through the senses, then it is simply a set of meaningless propositions: Among those who recognize that if philosophy is to be accounted a genuine branch of knowledge it must be defined in such a way as to distinguish it from metaphysics, it is fashionable to speak of the metaphysician as a kind of misplaced poet.
Ayer attempts to show that all philosophic problems can be solved by logical positivism.
Statements can be analytic taulologies (i.e. A=A, the author of Hamlet wrote Hamlet, water is H20, etc) or synthetic, empirical arguments which would require positive proof from the senses (i.e. the theory of relativity) or statements can be metaphysical nonsense (i.e. god hates gays).
Ayer says that each statement much be proven by the senses, whereas Popper says that a meaningful statement must be capable of being falsified.
Was it more meaningful to say they must prove it by pointing their little telescope where they said the planet would be or that their theory must be capable of being disproved?
If you take the British Empiricists and American Pragmatists to their natural conclusion you get the philosophy of Ayer which is mostly, but not completely, aligned with the Vienna Circle logical positivists.
This is an important milestone marking the linguistic turn of 20th Century philosophy.
Its central tenet is that there is no metaphysics.
It is quite convincing if you don't dwell too long upon it and are moved to treat philosophy as merely the tool to clear the underbrush of natural sciences.
I was not wholly convinced but I did enjoy it for the most part.
A.J. Ayer had studied philosophy with the Vienna Circle of philosophers in Vienna and after returning to the U.K. wrote this book, which has remained a classic outline of Logical Positivism in English.
I found the reading pretty dense at times -- mostly due to my own ignorance. Nevertheless, the author's slapping of the metaphysicists is mesmerizing. This is a short book, and I will likely re-read it in a year or two.
A strident explication of logical positivism.
A rather acerbic and thus hilarious attempt to show scientism is the end all be all. Enjoyable, and very readable but in my estimation quite nonsensical!
I can never get into philosophy texts, no matter how I try.
So Ayer proceeds to rule out metaphysics as something sensible to talk about, and later to further define what is meant by "empirical." (I first noticed this due to values not being "rationally" based >.<)The worse parts of the book are where Ayer applies this realization to all the big areas of philosophy, which can tend to be somewhat shallow.
(Especially as even Ayer admits at the end that we shouldn't worry too much about separating science and philosophy.)Chapter 3, The Nature of Philosophical Anyliss, has some interesting points about "in use" definitions.Chapter 4, The A Priori, is also a very good chapter.
Ah yes, that gospel of scientism "Language, Truth, and Logic." In this tract, A.J. Ayer attempts to demonstrate that that all meaningful propositions are either analytic (true by definition) or synthetic (dependent on empirical observation).
According to this criterion, the only way for a proposition to be meaningful is for it to refer to something empirically verifiable.
The true purpose of philosophy, according to Ayer, is to analyze sentences and clarify their logical relations.
It is no exaggeration to say that analytic philosophy as a whole is now defined with regards to how philosophers reacted to positivism.
