https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149070.The_Sentinel
کلارک؛ مترجم: رضا فاضل؛ تهران، نشر و پژوهش فرزان روز، 1378؛ در بیست و یک و 373 ص؛ شابک: 9646138705؛ موضوع: داستانهای خیال انگیز علمی از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 مداستانهای این مجموعه: 1 - گروه نجات، 2 - فرشته نگهبان، 3 - در نهایت درماندگی، 4 - نگهبان، 5 - مشتری پنج، 6 - باد خورشیدی، 7 - ملاقات با عروس دریایی، 8 - آواهای زمین دورمجموعه ی هشت داستان علمی تخیلی از سر آرتور چارلز کلارک متولد سال 1917 میلادی است، ایشان در رمانهای خویش برای نخستین بار، اندیشه ی استقرار ماهواره های مخابراتی در مدار زمین را، طرح کردند.
As part of my Kubrick Oktoberfest, I read The Sentinel to compare it to 2001: A Space Odyssey.
And this is why short stories make the most satisfying movies; they give indelible frameworks from which the director/screenwriter/crew can embellish, provide a variation on a theme if you will.
Clarke cowrote the screenplay with Kubrick.
I heartily agree with the most obvious difference, the change in the object's shape between the story and the movie, adroitly sidesteps hackneyed speculation and focuses the viewers' attention of where Kubrick wants you to look not irrelevancies.
I have to say that I wasn't quite sure what to expect because (to my shame as it's a genre I adore in the movies) I haven't actually ever read any "real" sci-fi before...
I was obviously aware of Clarke's popularity in this genre but, as we all know, popularity is not always a guarantee of quality.
I was completely delighted by the style of Clarke's writing and found myself able to really get deeply into the characters and the worlds they inhabit...
"Science fiction" is any story that is at least theoretically possible, given applicable technology.Both genres are prolific and - I think it's fair to say - often silly.
Clarke's mid-century short stories are as similar to Edgar Allan Poe, Jules Verne, Jack London, and Rudyard Kipling as they are to his own later epics (or the work of Asimov and Heinlein).
Gordon Pym, "Into the Maelstrom," and "The Unparalleled Adventure of One Hans Pfaal" as anything else I've come across and will perhaps be as timeless, if not as literary.Alas, it's the lack of literary polish that keeps Clarke bound by our prejudices concerning science fiction.
Clarke reminds me that all science fiction will become steam punk if given enough time.
I've read several of Clarke's novels (and loved them), but I wasn't sure how I would feel about his short stories.
In one of these intros, he notes that "Fantasy is something that couldn't happen in the real world (though often you wish it would); Science Fiction is something that really could happen (though often you'd be sorry if it did.)" This pretty well sums up Clarke's writing - if you don't like the science part of science fiction, you might not be as interested in some of his descriptions of the technology as I was.While I loved the book and give it five stars without reservation, I wasn't pleased with the Kindle version.
Famoso por haber sido ampliado y modificado tanto en la novela como la película 2001: Odisea en el espacio, nos cuenta una historia de lo más sencilla: el simple descubrimiento de un extraño artefacto en la Luna dejado hace eones por antiguos alienígenas.
Serán sus hipótesis y afirmaciones las que dejan en el lector una sensación de misterio y tensión constante.
Una sensación sobre la abrumadora infinidad del universo.
Un pequeño cuento que invita a reflexionar sobre nuestra propia existencia y nos desafía a buscar sin conformarse nunca.Escuchado a través del maravilloso audio radioficcionado de Noviembre Nocturno: https://www.ivoox.com/el-centinela-ar...
This collection of short stories includes the basis for Clarke's 2001: A Space Odyssey and Childhood's End, but in general it was a mixed bag. I enjoyed some of the stories more than others, but it took a hit for ratings because I was looking forward to finally being finished and moving on.
Thinking back on what I can still recall about this collection, he has the short story that inspired Childhood’s End (it was almost exactly like the novel – just missing the second half) and the short story that inspired 2001 (It was WAY different, almost unrecognizably so) and the aforementioned Meeting with Medusa, which I did like quite a bit, there was one where they discovered that a small moon of Jupiter was actually an alien artifact (sort of the same idea of Rendezvous with Rama, which is fine, I love that as a concept, it should be reused even more – even if it’s been used so much that a whole trope has developed around it – the BDO {Big Dumb Object} and even most of my own unpublished fiction are stories built around alien artifacts, both mega-scale constructs and small mystery devices)So, yeah, I liked this.
El terror cósmico siempre me pondrá los pelitos de punta. Me parece interesante de leer por ser la inspiración de Odisea en el Espacio
“The Sentinel” short story written by Arthur Clarke was published in 1951 by Avon Periodicals Inc. The story started with such details describing where they are and how close they are to the moon. The author described how challenging their expedition was and how they were able to go across. He described how the ocean was once deep and now it is only deep about half mile. The view was beautiful; you can see the mountains, the rocks, and the sun’s reflection.  They had lived outside of Earth for q
“The Sentinel” short story written by Arthur Clarke was published in 1951 by Avon Periodicals Inc. The story started with such details describing where they are and how close they are to the moon.
The author described how challenging their expedition was and how they were able to go across.
While she was cooking breakfast, she saw the view from the horizon, a place where no one has dared to explore and she took that as a challenge to try and find out what is on the other side of where they are living.
For someone that is unfamiliar with science fiction, it is a challenge to break down a story.
This novella became the movie 2001 : a space odyssey. Which it self became a precursor and inspiration for great sf movies to come including Star Wars.
Questa raccolta, in effetti, potrebbe esser chiamata Il meglio di Clarke, per le affinità evidenti con la raccolta asimoviana: un insieme di racconti in ordine cronologico, ognuno scelto dall'autore, accompagnati da prefazioni, che riescono nell'impresa di restituire una summa di tutta l'opera dello scrittore.A cominciare dal famosissimo La sentinella, che ha dato a Kubrick l'ispirazione per la sua Odissea, i racconti toccano tutti i temi dell'autore.
Il rigore tecnico però non rischia mai di appiattire la narrazione, né tantomeno lo stile, che è sempre quello di un grande e dotato scrittore; ogni racconto ha la sua pesata carica riflessiva, e per quanto la pagina possa esser densa di dettagli tecnici, si scivola sempre verso le riflessioni esistenziali e filosofiche.
Clarke's stories survived their Golden Age origins by being focused more on the humans than the gee-whiz technology of the time.
There's fwere hints of the casual sexism and anachronistic vacuum-tube computers here, and Clarke always tempered his writing with some hard science, or at least enough to be convincing.
I've enjoyed his work in novel form, and these stories are equally enjoyable.
I know him through his imaginative architectural renderings, so seeing his carefully penciled human figures brings softens the typical corrupted and decayed structures that first got me interested in his work.
Muy buena colección de relatos de Clarke!Si bien todos los relatos fueron entretenidos a su manera, mis favoritos fueron "El centinela" (relato que ya había leído hace un tiempito) y "¿Quién está ahí?".
La scrittura di Clarke è sempre piena di magia. Mi perdo nelle sue descrizioni ricche e particolari.
Clarke y publicado en 1998 en esta edición de las novelas del verano de la biblioteca El Mundo.5.656 #páginasleídasen2018.Reviéndome los programas de "Qué grande es el cine", José Luis Garci y sus compañeros de tertulia me descubrieron que Arthur C.
Clarke escribió su más famoso libro, "2001, una odisea del espacio" después del estreno de la icónica película que hizo Kubrick y no al revés.
El centinela es el relato que da título al mismo y es el de más fácil reconocimiento en la película pero no es el único en el que he visto al director tomando notas como un loco.
Clarke's short stories.
Clarke, like many of his peers at the time, specialized in writing what I like to think of as "idea" stories.
But the stories themselves almost always surround one particularly interesting idea, such as: "What would happen if an alien species tried to save Earth from imminent disaster, but the only person they could reach was a drunk?Overall, I found the ideas in this collection fascinating, and while a few of the pieces really stood out, what I found particularly enjoyable was that there weren't any pieces I didn't like.
The stories included here (10 of them, if you include Clarke's introduction/biography) span Clarke's career, from the 40's to the 70's, and all include brief blurbs by author that I found helpful.I haven't read any of Clarke's novels yet, so it'd be interesting to compare the short stories I've read so far with his other works.
While I didn't love all the stories included in this volume (and I probably would've preferred to read his stories in a larger anthology with a greater mix of authors and types), I still found it interesting to read through the collection.
He also understands human nature and manages to marry these viewpoints into compelling stories.I primarily chose to read this collection of short stories because "The Sentinel" was the base story that the movie "2001 : A Space Odyssey" was developed from.
It is surprisingly short and the only real concept that I can see in it that translated from book to film is *SPOILER ALERT* that an advanced civilization placed a transponder on earth's moon because they knew that it was only when a species had achieved the ability to leave its planet that it would be ready to be contacted.There are definitely better, more complete stories in this collection.
This book from the series brings into light some of the most splendid short stories of Mr. Clarke's career.
It numbers 22 stories ranging in time of publishing from the very beginning of '50 to the 1955, and so it happens that his highly speculative, essentially youth spirit meets the mind of the socially concerned adult.
As such, for the better of stuff here you can catch an allusion to the Cold War.As a rule of thumb, the better stories figure in the first three quarters of the book, as by 1954 inward the quality seemed to generally drop and the content takes a very wide turn in humorous, easy reading side.
¿Recuerdan esa escena de Jodie Foster en la película Contacto de 1997 donde ella no puede describir lo que ve y dice «Debieron enviar a un poeta»? Mi respuesta sería: No, Jodie, debieron mandar a Arthur C. Clarke.El Centinela no podrá ser gran cosa hablando de trama, pues todo se resume al encuentro de un monolito. Lo interesante, y que en mi opinión, brilla por completo, es la prosa de Arthur.Jamás me había sentido tan adentro de las palabras de una persona.
As always when reading older science fiction--this collection of stories dates from the early 1950s--it's important to remember what we take for granted today, what actually transpired over the last 60+ years, and how attitudes have changed regarding the sexes.Regarding the latter, one of the longer stories, "Holiday on the Moon", is a sweet tale that ends with a girl who becomes so entranced by what she sees while visiting the moon with her family that she (secretly) decides to pursue a career in "the quest for the secret of the stars."Clarke usually couches his technology in sufficiently magic-like explanations but there are still amusing bits, like when a futuristic submarine relays important information to its pilot by way of a ticker-tape machine.This particular collection--the middle of a trilogy--focuses most of its stories on space travel and the moon.
4.5 starsThis is for the individual, singleshort story only.This 9 page SF short story was first published in the Spring1951 issue of 10 Story Fantasy.This is a very well written SF short story. The sheer originalityand creativity of this story justastonishes me, particularly con-sidering that it was written in 1951.
I enjoyed some of the stories in this collection, and didn't care for others. Overall, I was pretty unmoved by it. I did like that some of the stories held up pretty well, considering how long ago they were written, but the fact that there were only two female characters in the whole book was a negative.
A fun short read that tells the story of scientists exploring the Moon. In a lucky sighting, a scientist noticed a gleaming material on the horizon of the Moon. Upon closer inspection, it was a black Monolith of alien design. Scientists and organizations scurry as they prepare for the ramifications of the discovery.
So, I only read the story actually called "The Sentinel." (Once again, mentioned in the inspirations in Star Wars Year by Year). I loved the concept. I'd read a longer novel based on this, too. Oh look! Guess I should go read 2001 then..... :)
his compendium of early Clarke stories is good, but obviously not on par with his later works. Some of the stories really seemed pointless, without any sort of conflict whatsoever. Others were quite good and had surprising twist endings. All in all, worth a look but don't expect a lot.
Una colección de relatos cortos muy interesante.
Interesting story that is the kernel from which 2001: A Space Odyssey grew.
A Good Collection of StoriesAnother good collection of Arthur C. Clarke stories. A number of tables from The White Hart are included in this volume.
