https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1890081.The_Consciousness_of_the_Atom
The writing is clear and understandable, the early lectures only gently referring to Christianity in an open way - i.e. God is not definitely defined as existing in the biblical sense, but as a force of energy.
But as the lectures progress, an evangelical tone seems to creep in and 'the Christ' is mentioned more and more frequently, the author's belief seemingly that he is actually alive and well and will appear in the flesh when the time is appropriate.
The final lecture imagines the further evolution of humankind.An interesting read that I might have given five stars were it not for the reliance on Old and New Testament text in the final chapters.
Really interesting, though when it hit the end, it started delving into the realm of the wacky. Still, I highlighted quite a lot and made notes.
Alice Bailey sets forth in a series of seven lectures the notion that all entities, even those we don't consider to be "living", have an intelligence or consciousness.
It is interesting that a woman who spoke of this seemingly 1970's New Age concept back in 1922 but the transcribed talks are a little dry and very dense.
I'm not sure I will go back to the book since, beyond the 2nd or 3rd lecture, I had an over-all sense of the overriding concept Bailey was introducing to her listeners and so lost the ability to absorb anything she was attempting to articulate.
Une grosse perte de temps, j'étais plutôt bien partie au début bien que ça sentait le New Age à distance, mais je lui est quand même accordé le bénéfice du doute, c'est bien dommage car ça fait longtemps que les discours sectaires n'ont plus aucun effet sur moi, l'auteur ne m'a pas impressionné avec ces idées pseudos scientifiques ( impliquer la science dans des sujets ésotériques c'est vraiment le bordel! ), heureusement qu'il ne faisait que 85 pages! bref, who next ?!
This book was recommended to me by my new agey stuff mentor as she had read it several years ago and it sent her on her current spiritual path. Crazy that these lectures were from the 1920s. It's a short book, but I didn't find it to be a quick read. There was a lot of information to absorb into my brain.
Uuummmm..... Okay...An interests perspective I guess. I don't want to bash the author's opinion. So, I'll just say it was worth the read if not only to see another perspective. Not quite what I was expecting when I purchased this, but okay the......
For it being as old as it is, this work still touches up on a lot of relevant themes in today's scientific and philosophical scene. I recommend it for people interested in New Age thought and truth seekers in general.
interesting idea; but unfortunately book started moving into lala-land, so stopped reading
