https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13752.The_Master_of_Go
Go Seigen, a genius who is widely believed to be the greatest Go player of the 20th century, also played a match against Honinbo Shusai, the real-life prototype for "the Master" in Kawabata's book.
As the nominally stronger player, he had the right to adjourn the game when he wished, even when it was his turn to play.
It is widely believed that the move was actually found by Shusai's student Maeda, later a top player in his own right.
As Kawabata recounts in the novel, Kitani understood the implications of the Western-style adjournment rule better than Shusai.
gaming pragmatism.“Shusai the Master would seem in a variety of meanings to have stood at the boundary between the old and the new.”The frail and ill Master who revered the tradition of Go as a way of life and art , painfully observed the transition of his beloved painting into the commercial entity bound by scientific regulations and competitive aggressiveness.
Mr. Uragami take this territorial battle further into the lives of the players and the existence of Go as a traditional art and as a embedded culture of a nation.
In the war like game the stones and the players amalgamate into one whole existence.
How Kawabata combines a journalistic narrative voice with such a rich literary tradition baffles me more than the intricate game of Go and it's complex representation of the structural game in society the novel is supposed to explore, and what a beautiful structure Kawabata takes us through, peeling such thin layers of meaning with each inflection and each crafty Go move between the classic master and the iconoclast challenger.
With no such intention in mind, I rather fell out of the frying pan on this one. I had to get away from Yourcenar and a glance at the shelves made me think nothing could be further from Hadrian than a book about Go.My very first Go move, and it’s a mistake. Continue here: http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...
These two men sit down at the board and spend anywhere from 40 minutes to 3 hours contemplating their next move, and might play five stones between them in an afternoon, then retire for a few days (or in some cases, because of health issues, weeks).So, from whence comes the drama and conflict in this slow, thoughtful game?
And keeping in mind that not being Japanese, not being a master go player, and reading a translation, you're really seeing third-hand ripples reflected through a fuzzy lens.
Cette édition présente des diagrammes de l'évolution de la partie.
La partie s'étale pendant fort longtemps, avec des interruptions de plusieurs semaines.
Au delà de l'affrontement, une des interprétation avancée dans la préface est qu'au travers de cette histoire, l'auteur a voulu figurer la mutation progressive entre un japon nourri de valeurs aristocratiques issues du passé féodal, faites d'excellence, d'honneur, de sacrifice, vers des valeurs démocratiques plus pragmatiques, faites de calcul, d'efficacité et qui ne s'embarrassent pas de toute la fastidieuse étiquette de l'ancienne éthique.
Une évolution que l'auteur déplorerait nostalgiquement.
3.5 starsI've just read an interesting article in The Japan Times entitled "An exploration of the great game at the heart of 'the Master of Go' by Tyler Rothmar, informing his readers that the battle took place nearly six months and the victor finalized exactly 78 years ago today (December 4, 2016).
Comparatively, Otake is the opponent the Master can see and plan to play the game, however, it's better if we'd rather have a few challenging us in the open for the face-to-face battle so that we know who they are and keep this in mind too.
Spannend relaas van een legendarische go-wedstrijd, waarbij de grootmeester wegens ziekte het onderspit delft en het prototypische jong talent zijn smerigste trukendoos opentrekt. Kawabata ritmeert perfect, bouwt de spanning op en graaft diep in de spelerszielen, dit alles in zijn typische ingetogen stijl. Met tekeningen van het verloop van de langdurige kamp, voor wie die wil naspelen. Onthaasting voor amateurs van bordspelen en japanofielen. Heerlijk. PS: zijn er go-spelers op Goodreads? Wil het spel graag terug opnemen en tegenwoordig zijn er heel wat online platformen. Just a shot in the dark.
EDIT:　I wonder, would a pun(?) like 明治ん - 名人 be acceptable...?A masterpiece, perhaps? - all of Kawabata's sentiments crammed into one book rather than an observation of a Go match. Though Kawabata's ideals doesn't strike me as those which are sensible, for some reason this book touches me more deeply than I've ever expected.After reading this, I thought as if for a moment, I could understand the reasons behind his suicide. Another one-sitting read; 4 stars, +1 personal star.
A Go match must start at the appointed time even when the player's parents are on their deathbed or the player himself fell ill right over the chessboard. The Master of Go records an old generation v.s. younger generation, tradition v.s. modern contest between one old Master of Go (actually, he was the last person to hold this title) and an up-and-coming one, and the actual event took place in year 1938.The author, Yasunari Kawabata, who penned this novel years after he wrote serialized journal
The Master of Go records an old generation v.s. younger generation, tradition v.s. modern contest between one old Master of Go (actually, he was the last person to hold this title) and an up-and-coming one, and the actual event took place in year 1938.The author, Yasunari Kawabata, who penned this novel years after he wrote serialized journalistic articles to record this match for a newspaper, was in fact a Go admirer and friend of the old Master of Go, that sounds great!
I look forward to see Mr. Kawabata's take on this contest.More to come.
It was a bit draggy in parts with the details of the championship game.
There was a distinct loss of control, whereas in times gone by, the master was omnipotent in the realm of go.There was something unreal about the pictures, which may have come from the case, the ultimate in tragedy, of a man so disciplined in an art that he had lost the better part of reality.The master was a man obsessed.
His ultra competitive nature shows in how he managed his break time, when he still continued to compete in other games such as chess and billiards.
In contrast, Otake, the challenger was more in touch with reality.
Kawabata es tranquilo, paciente, conciso, detallado y letal. Como jugador de Go, parece que cada una de sus palabras está fríamente calculada. Enorme libro
The careful elegance of Kawabata's writing slowly, almost imperceptibly, creates layers and patterns of meaning in a very similar way to how a game of go might develop.
Kawabata builds tension not by advancing the action, but by restraining it, so while the reader may not learn the actual rules of the game, they will understand the spirit of the game perfectly.The novel is also an excellent example of the Japanese form of shosetsu - a kind of chronicle novel that does not sacrifice art to be factual.
One can only hope we in the west adopt a similar tradition to shosetsu - it would certain save people like James Frey a good deal of trouble.The Master of Go is a beautiful and sad novel.
*4-I-still-don't-understand-shit-of-the-art-of-go-stars* Kawabata Yasunari chronicles a go match between an old, sick, declining master and a young, modern, aggressive rising star for one of Japan's most popular newspaper, and he does that from the point of view of someone relatively new and inexperienced at go; the book version of his account presents a scheme of each step of the game, from the beginning throughout its progression, until the dramatic conclusion.Despite its simple, basic rule -
Kawabata Yasunari chronicles a go match between an old, sick, declining master and a young, modern, aggressive rising star for one of Japan's most popular newspaper, and he does that from the point of view of someone relatively new and inexperienced at go; the book version of his account presents a scheme of each step of the game, from the beginning throughout its progression, until the dramatic conclusion.Despite its simple, basic rule - surround more territory than the opponent - go is an extremely difficult game; it is presented as basically being a military strategy, sublimating itself into an art, like many Japanese cultural activities and martial arts: ikebana, tea ceremony, karate, judo, etc.Even as a total novice to the game, one can tell how meaningful and rich every single rule, scheme, movement can be.
Un último juego que representa más que el enfrentamiento entre lo nuevo y lo viejo, sino que dos generaciones que por sucesos históricos tienen paradigmas de la vida contradictorios. La dicotomía de los grandes autores japoneses del siglo XX quizás tiene a este libro como su producto más representativo.
I guess it would be easy for a reader of the Western world to say that Kawabata's book is not much more than a slightly fictionalised record of a game that lasted 6 months and was split into several sessions, where two adversaries played and the country silently observed until the Master of Go finally lost and his much younger opponent took the laurel, which, by the way, we are told straight at the onset.
It would be easy to sum it up this way but completely unfair to the style and cultural subtleties of the book, to the lingering spirit of Japanese traditions, ceremonial etiquette and values of the past, desperately trying to keep dignity in today's competitive world where new sets of rules bring new tactics and push aside traditionally perceived respect and honour.
Well, I still don't know if the problem is Kawabata's writing or Seidensticker's translating, but I have a feeling it's the latter.
There's no rhythm or melody to his writing, so you feel you are walking along an incredibly uneven path that makes unexpected turns all the time.
This reinforces my belief that translators must not only be adept in both languages, but must be good writers themselves for them to properly translate someone else's writing.The examination of past and future, which supposedly was at the centre of this book, never really got off the ground.
It's never made clear what exactly makes Otake representative of Japan's future, just that he has certain personal qualities that clash with the Master's personal qualities.
In this particular novel, the author is the newspaper correspondent covering the retirement game of the highly influential Go master Honinbo Shusai and the innovative younger player Otake (a thinly veiled fictionalization of eventual Go legend Minoru Kitani).
Kawabata uses the actual game record in his storytelling, a recreation of which you can access here.The novel opens with the news of Honinbo Shusai's death.
A significant percentage of his narrative is consumed by Shusai's ambivalence with the new, rigorous rules of Go, ostensible improvements that for him renders the game dehumanized.Another, more subtle motif in the story is the idea of the game as a pure form, untouched by the outside world.
It may be said that the Master was plagued in his last match by modern rationalism, to which fussy rules were everything, from which all the grace and elegance of Go as art had disappeared, which quite dispensed with respect for elders and attached no importance to mutual respect as human beings.
Everything had become science and regulation.It's about the retirement match of the Go master/Honinbō Shūsai with Kitani Minoru (in the book called Otake), you can go through the steps of the match here.
Kawabata wrote newspaper columns about the 6-months spanning match which he reworked into this book.
Kawabata is my most recent literary obsession, I'm just gonna read everything he ever wrote and I haven't gotten very far.
"Scarlet Gang" was experimental and awesome, "Snow County" and "Thousand Cranes" and the"Palm-of-Hand Stories" sparse, gently, and apocalyptic (in a love sense), and "The Master of Go" is really not like the others at all.
Kawabata fictionalizes an actual final game of Go he covered as a journalist, a last contest between one of its most famed players, terminally ill and failing, and a younger, distraught player of some skill.It leans towards a more abstruse and symbolist structure and hue than his other earlier novels, is, in Japan, considered his best, and was considered by Kawabata himself his only "complete" novel.
The good books about the game are rare.
I know only four one, "The chess player" Zweig, "Loujine defense" Nabokov, "Little chess player "Ogawa and this one.
The Go is a very special game.
The story came fron a real party after second world war.It does not matter to know which gained, the challenge is not there.
With the end of the old Master, it is a certain idea of Japan which disappears.In complement of this reading, I advise you a Swiss film of Richard Dembo, "La diagonale du fou" Oscar of best foreign film in 1985.
هذه واحدة من أجمل وأصدق ما كتب الروائي الياباني الكبير الحائز على جائزة نوبل ياسوناري كاواباتا، وفيها يعرض لمباراة في لعبة الغو حضرها بنفسه. ولعبة الغو أو الجو هي لعبة تلعب على لوحة عبارة عن بتسعة عشر سطرا قائما وتسعة عشر سطرا تقطعها في زوايا قائمة. ويتبادل لاعبان وضع صخرات من لونين على مقاطع السطور وفي لوحة عادية هناك 361 منها. ويتنافس اللاعبان في الإحاطة بأكبر قطر تحددها صخرات من لون واحد، ومع أن قواعد اللعبة بسيطة، إلا أنها تتطلب الإستراتيجية الباطنة ومن الممكن أن يقضي شخص عمره في دراستها بدون الوصول إلى فهمها الكامل. تحميل الكتاب مجاناً.
Die Partie ersteckte sich insgesamt über sechs Monate und gibt nicht nur Einblick in die sich wandelnde Welt des Go - sondern wirft auch einen Blick auf den Wandel der japanischen Gesellschaft.
Eine Frage, die ich mir gleich am Anfang gestellt habe - wie viel muss man von Go verstehen, um das Buch so richtig genießen zu können.
Die Antwort ist recht einfach: Ein Verständnis für das Spiel ermöglicht einen anderen Zugang zur Erzählung und den Charakteren.
Ein Aspekt, der für mich eher im Vordergrund stand, ist die sich wandelnde japanische Gesellschaft.
Il go, per il maestro Shusai, non è un gioco finalizzato alla vittoria, ma una via per la contemplaz
A sick dying old man, a master of Go, plays an epic game against a young modern man.
The game takes half a year to finish and is moved to various inns in Japan.
The players meet about every three days, play can take 19 hours or three, and they might move one stone on the board or 20 moves.
The author provides pictures of the moves on the game board.
The narrator is a reporter who admires the Master, and is brought to tears several times after desultory conversations with him, despite the vagueness of the Master's responses.‘The Master of Go’ was written after WWII, but the action takes place in 1938 in Japan.
Apparently not when the game is Go and the Master of the game, a figure revered by the author as if a prophet (the episode about the single strand of hair on the Master's eyebrow treads on the hilarious, though), is playing his last fateful game against an upstart Otake.
The author uses the backdrop of this single game to depict the lifestyle of a passing era in Japan.
Este dureros de frumos.Fiind primul scriitor japonez laureat al premiului Nobel pentru literatură în 1968, Yasunari Kawabata este mai degrabă cunoscut cititorilor occidentali datorită romanelor „Ţara zăpezilor” (Humanitas, 2007), „Frumuseţe şi întristare” (Humanitas Fiction, 2013) sau „O mie de cocori” (Humanitas, 2000).
Întrucât, printr-un rezumat simplist, în „Maestrul de go” chiar este vorba despre jocul de go, un joc specific japonez, mult mai complicat decât şahul şi cumva nepotrivit cu spiritul occidental (după cum declară şi Kawabata prin intermediul personajului Uragami, ziaristul amator de go care relatează întreaga desfăşurare a partidei pentru publicul larg:„E poate hazardat să iau ca exemplu un american începător, dar se poate spune că, în general, apusenii nu au destul kiai.
I read this and Stefan Zweig's Chess Story back-to-back, and was very happy that I did.
Both deal with the psychological effects of obsessing over complex boardgames, and explore a central character whose life has been consumed by such obsession.
Despite the fact that Chess Story takes a fictional approach, while Kawabata's book is based on an actual person, there were many parallels between the two works, and each highlighted aspects of the other that otherwise I might have missed.
While both books on their own are probably only worth three stars, the resonance created by reading them one after the other magnified my enjoyment so much that I'm giving both four stars.
It's a chronicle-novel, it's faction, it's creative non-fiction, it's a non-fiction novel ... and it's published 15 years before "In Cold Blood" invented the genre. I couldn't finish the Wikipedia article on the game of Go.And then Kawabata gives the final scores at the start of the second chapter. But he keeps this story interesting by giving us the rooms, the people, the autumn trees, the fraught wives, the gardens, the smell of burning paulownia wood, etc.
The Master played go. The Master died playing go. The swallow is flying, the epoch is dying. Maybe I just can't understand why this book brought Kawabata Nobel Prize in literature when Mishima was nominated. Maybe I just can understand why, and can understand it pretty clear.
