https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225297.The_Nick_Adams_Stories
This was Hemingway at his absolute best!I have read some of the Nick Adams stories before but never the complete collectionin one book.Loved every story!The writing was just so brilliant!He writes in such an elegant simple way and just leaves images in my mind that are so clear.Reading these stories i could nearly smell the fresh air as Nick Adams was fishing or campingor just eating a sandwich by the river or feel the cold water as he was wading into the river!Just awesome!Cant get enough of Hemingway!
But mostly because these stories resonate with my own childhood.As a young boy, my family (including some aunts, uncles, cousins and my Nana) rented lake cottages for a few summers on Black Lake.
Absolutely and I have plenty of fond memories of those summers long since gone.So when I read Hemingway's Nick Adams stories (particularly the ones focusing on his adventures in northern Michigan), I make connections to the times and the joys (and the sorrows) that I too experienced during my Black Lake summers.
These stories are Papa Hemingway's gift to Michigan and I treasure them.
In this arrangement Nick Adams, who for a long time was not widely recognized as a consistent character at all, emerges clearly as the first in a long line of Hemingway’s fictional selves.Of the 24 stories included in the volume, 16 had been published previously by Hemingway: 8, in In Our Time in 1924; 5, in Men Without Women in 1927; 3, in Winner Take Nothing in 1933.
Others, generally those that Hemingway had not published and/or had not actually finished such as "The Last Good Company”, tend to be substandard.Although Young intended the order of the stories to follow Nick Adams fictional life, I am not certain that the arrangement is accurate.

Nick Adams stories are inspired by the author’s own experiences.
I doubt if someone were to read this book without knowing by whom it is written, she may not persist beyond couple of stories.
The stories capture Nick Adam’s escapades and experiences in a chronological order.
Some of them are good, for they capture the essence of the age of Nick at that point in time.
Like getting exposed to the stark realities of the world during the childhood.
Yet to Hemingway’s credit as Hemingway is revered for, the prose simply flows.
His words flow like a fresh water river.
Nick did not understand this but he was proud."'You're going to have things to repent, boy,' Mr. John had told Nick.
But the thing is to have them.'" -- on insomnia after a war wound, from "Now I Lay Me" pg.126 & 130"I myself did not want to sleep because I had been living for a long time with the knowledge that if I ever shut my eyes in the dark and let myself go, my soul would go out of my body.
It was cold in the fall in Milan and the dark came very early.
In terms of Hemingway's storytelling and writing ability it is certainly a four.
This collection of stories featuring character Nick Adams spans his childhood to the point where he becomes a father.
I had a real problem getting through the majority of this book and it no doubt stems from the fact that this is not exactly a novel.
While I understand that this is the collected stories of Nick Adams, the way in which Hemingway writes each of these stories seems like it jumps between completely different voices.
I’m afraid that short stories are just not Hemingway’s strong suit.
One of the amazing things about his novels is the way he gradually adds layer after layer to his characters, slowly exposing their complexity.
With the short vignettes here, we don’t have this deep understanding of the characters, so rather than the tension of unspoken emotions behind brusque dialogue, we’re just left with a lot of declarative sentences.
That said, some stories worked much better than others.
The war stories were the best in the collection; Hemingway excels at writing trauma and fear and frustration.
Unfortunately, when dealing with more commonplace subjects, the stories verged on boring.
It never ceases to amaze me the crud that teachers will subject their students to. This was my case in high school. I was forced to write numerous papers talking about how awesome this book was. In reality Ernest Hemingway was a total Eeyore. Everything he writes is depressing and boring. It's crazy that every one applauds him as being such a realist. I feel sorry for anyone who sees life in that way.I guess it's fine if you read a little Hemingway to broaden your horizons. Just be sure to read positive stuff too.
Oh this book just pulls my heart until it hurts. If I ever had a place to call my home town it would be Northern Michigan. Hemingway often wrote about the same area of Northern Michigan where he would spend his summers. These short stories are about growing up there and mentions all the little towns and places I know. I read this book every summer on the airplane when I go back to MI.
I can now say I'm a true Hemingway fan...my question is if they are all truthful?
Why is it that I always hate Hemingway short stories while I'm reading them, but when I read analysis about them later, I see that they're brilliant?
Interestingly, the connections between some of the characters here and characters in my Hemingway favorites are sometimes very similar and for that reason, I allowed 3 stars instead of 2.
I really was not impressed with nor drawn in to many of the stories and had put off this book for years based on summaries I had read in the past.
I felt that I needed a dose of Hemingway, so I finally gave it a shot.
To Have and to Have Not, For Whom the Bell Tolls, A Farewell to Arms, and Islands in the Stream were fantastic, some of my all time favorites, these stories pale in comparison.
I was looking for a reintroduction to Hemingway. Fortunately, a friend is a former English professor, and sent me his copy of "The Nick Adams Stories". It was interesting to trace Hemingway's growth as a writer - from his obvious homage to Mark Twain, and later finding his own voice. The trout stream scenes caused a visceral reaction, and I could feel the cool stream rushing against my leg.
I just wonder if in fact Hemingway was the great writer who' changed the style of English prose' or was he just an alcoholic who repeated bits of sentences over and over again? I must say I did enjoy reading the stories though (for the most part). He was definitely a 'man's man." Never really getting the female characters very flushed out or realistic.
This is the third time I have attempted to say that I never finished this book, sorry Ernie! It was, indeed, fun to read about Northern Michigan a century ago, with so many references, but then, I simply lost interest, maybe 60% through! So many books, so little time, so I moved on!
Disappointing. I liked the first few stories but lost interest afterwards.
great stories. they were the first i read from Papa. still remember after all these years
Slobber from a young man obsessed with outdoor recreation.
The Nick Adams Stories: A Magnificent CollectionBy: Laura Bacon Ernest Hemingway has been known as one of the most popular American authors to date. he does not fall short in this collection of short stories. Said to The Nick Adams Stories: A Magnificent CollectionBy: Laura Bacon Ernest Hemingway has been known as one of the most popular American authors to date. he does not fall short in this collection of short stories. Said to mirror Hemingway’s own life, The Nick Adams Stories are a collecti
The Nick Adams Stories: A Magnificent CollectionBy: Laura Bacon	Ernest Hemingway has been known as one of the most popular American authors to date.
Said to The Nick Adams Stories: A Magnificent CollectionBy: Laura Bacon	Ernest Hemingway has been known as one of the most popular American authors to date.
Said to mirror Hemingway’s own life, The Nick Adams Stories are a collection of one memorable character, Nick Adams, as it follows Nick from a young child to a grown man.
Hemingway’s own life, The Nick Adams Stories are a collection of one memorable character, Nick Adams, as it follows Nick from a young child to a grownsman.
Hemingway wrote stories that are good.
Sure this book has guns in it and yes many animals were harmed in the making of the stories.
Nobody else’s stories read like recipes for a spiritual retreat via camping and fishing.
Nick Adams is Hemingway’s voice and his stand-in, witness to all the ordeals and high points of life that you and I evade and seek both.
The more meaningful the occasion, the less Hemingway is likely to say about it.
But for all that Hemingway knows who we are and why we struggle, and he knows how important the quiet moments between the action are to a healthy psyche.
The Nick Adams Stories is no exception; the writing, the characters, the scenic descriptions, these are all as good as it gets.
This collection of short stories, inspired by Hemingways own life, follows a man named Nick Adams from his childhood to an adult man with a child of his own.
In one way though the stories were frustrating because the characters of these stories are written so well and so vividly you do feel that you've gotten to know them only for the stories to end, as does life a lot of times, with no resolution to whatever is the focus of the story.
I have read bits and pieces of the Nick Adams stories, out of sequence, over a number of years but just recently read the entire collection as assembled in this book.
Nick Adams, the hero of the stories, some say, is actually Hemingway, as he sees himself.
Symbolism can be read into many of the scenes throughout the stories so it isn't a stretch to say that Hemingway is telling his own life story.
Picking his way through the barren landscape where fire had destroyed everything seems to symbolize all the horrors of the war Hemingway just witnessed.
What a wonderful way to read these stories; you do appreciate them in a different way in sequence.
The biggest surprise was "Last Good Country," an unfinished novella that's kind-of like Hemingway's attempt at a children's adventure story, that he stops writing just before it turns dark.
That story closes out the collection and by the end of it you feel a little hollow and used.
And that feels good, I don't know why.Liked this bit from "Last Good Country":'When is a man grown up?
When he's married?' 'No. Until you're grown-up they send you to reform school.
After you're grown up they send you to the penitentiary.'
This is probably one of Hemingway's best books - up there with The Sun Also Rises and For Whom the Bell Tolls.
What I love about this collection is that it puts all of the Nick Adams stories in chronological order which provides a lot more context.
In this collection you see the synergies between the stories and how actions in one story impact the setting and emotions in another.This collection has all of the elements that you would expect from Hemingway - the spare writing style, the coming of age theme, and the melancholy that tinges all of the characters lives.
To be honest, this book was poorly written, aand I would have expected more from such a famous author. The bridging from chapter to chapter was absent, and I often found myself confused. I don't think it has any redeeming qualities, so I stopped reading on about page 270. Worse still, it had so many swear words in every sentence (a VERY colorful vocabulary), that it could give you a heart attack. For a time we had to read it out loud, and we had to beep out words more than talk! I do not recommend it to anyone.
It's quite a while since I read these stories (or at least some of them -- Big Two-Hearted River is the one that sticks in my mind) for a class in American Literature of the 1920s. I think my only Hemingway before that may have been  The Old Man and the Sea which I didn't care for in 7th grade. The stories made me appreciate Hemingway's style much more. I'd say they are a good introduction before reading the novels.
I struggle with Hemingway's novels. I have only read two of them, and have started others only to get sidetracked/restless while reading them. I think maybe his style is better suited to short stories. I love the Nick Adams stories, this collection has them all. There is the classic required reading: "Indian Camp," "The Killers," and "The End of Something," etc., but also stories like "Three Shots," which I believe was originally part of "Indian Camp," but is great as a super brief, separate story.
I found these stories very tedious and self serving; I get that Hemmingway was obsessed with death and manliness but even the glorification of nature in the upper portions of Michigan couldn't capture my attention. Women are undeveloped characters and frankly nothing much happens. I can't believe that one paragraph could constitute a short story; where were the beginning, middle and ends of the tales. What the heck is the significance of the rabbit at the end of "On writing".
Read it cover to cover for a Hemingway course. "Big Two-Hearted River" is still and always will be my favorite. I've yet to find a more lyrical, serene, heartbreaking short story. But they're all good.
