https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8221.Laura
I learned that Laura’s age was drastically changed in the Little House books.
The second half of the biography follows the Little House books more closely, so I don’t know if Laura was more autobiographical in these books or if Zochert found less research to add to this section.
Here are a few of Laura’s quotes that I want to remember:“We who live in quiet places have the opportunity to become acquainted with ourselves, to think our own thoughts and live our own lives in a way that is not possible for those who are keeping up with the crowd.”“I have never lost my childhood’s delight in going after cows.”“The voices of nature do not speak so plainly to us as we grow older, but I think it is because, in our busy lives, we neglect her until we grow out of sympathy.
Especially if you--like I did for many years--accept the LIW/RWL versions of events as gospel truth.
Much of the Little House books were tweaked to make a 'better story'; author Zochert has done the legwork to track down the mundane truth of matters and set the record straight with regard to How Things Really Were.
Not only does it tell a less rose-coloured version of events, it also is useful to students of folklore.
In reading both the populist versions authored by Laura and Rose and then the dry accounts of same uncovered by Zochert one can see the threads of myth's origin in the truth.
I was and am a giant Little House nerd and not the least ashamed of that.It's sort of shocking to realize that the author talked with many people who actually knew Laura, because the pioneer days are just not that far behind us.
I mean, she traveled by covered wagon just barely ahead of the railroad, and lived to see atomic weapons, television, and the beginning of the space program.Anyway, this is a gentle introduction to the "real" Laura, and I recommend it for people looking for more info but not quite ready to face the fact that Pa was essentially a deadbeat and other alarming myth busters.
About Almanzo's proposal Laura wrote: "he kissed me goodnight and I went into the house not quite sure if I were engaged to Manly or to the starlight and the prairie."The true strength of Laura: The Life of Laura Ingalls Wilder is Zochert's keen understanding of what the stories reported in the Little House books meant to Laura.
Appreciating the small joys of everyday, realizing how times are always changing, understanding the beauty of memory and childhood--these are the everlasting messages of Laura's Little House series which she applied to every single day of her life.
When I think of the Little House books I view them as very biographical in nature, so reading a biography-type book had never really occurred to me (as silly as that might sound).
Census information was included, and more historical information about the locations in which she lived were given.
The pictures that were included were wonderful; and really, reading this book has made me want to plan a trip to these locations even more than I had considered before.
There is location information given, if you should ever want to travel there yourself, for the various places talked about, in the back of the book, as well.
An excellent book, especially for those people who only know about Laura from the TV series Little House on the Prairie.
Even for those of us who read all her books and thought they were completely factual, it's quite interesting to find out that Laura changed things around a bit when writing her books, whether because that's how she remembered it or because it just made a better story (especially for little kids -- true pioneer stories ARE pretty harsh).
Both front and back covers have pictures of people who look suspiciously like the Little House on the Prairie TV actors.
I wish this book would get re-released with a better cover.
It was good for the time it was written. There has been a lot more research since then. This book is like an introductory text for "Pioneer Girl". It's worth reading though, especially is you've only read the children's books.
I think that just about everyone who has read the "Little House" books loves them.
The next time we went to the library my mom got the first set of CDs of the "Little House" books.
I love Laura Ingalls Wilder.
When I was little I read my history books for fun because I loved reading over and over again how my country came into being.
The characters you know and love slowly fade away, and at last, even Laura herself is gone.
The only reason I read far enough into the story to discover that I enjoyed it is that I  determinedly, painstakingly, agonizingly, (insert long list of adverbs) refused to read the book I was  dying  to read ( The Forgotten Beasts of Eld) until I finished  Laura .
(I certainly hope  Forgotten Beasts  is worth it--I've been waiting half my life to read it--but that's another story.)Once I got past the background into the thick of Laura's story, it was absorbing.
Woo-hoo, Laura Ingalls Wilder shows some skin!
The book itself contains some interesting facts, including that the "Olson" family was actually the "Jones" family, which pleased my Celtic soul.
Also, the tortuous path some researchers have followed in order to verify or augment the facts of the Ingalls and Wilder family history was interesting to me.
However, the author's attempt to copy the "Little House" style of writing is annoying.
I don't know if the author intentionally copied the style or it crept up on him as he studied LAW's life, but it detracts from the book's impact.
I have been reading the Little House series to the kids over the last several months, so it was very interesting for me to get the real inside scoop on Laura's life. It was sad to find out that things weren't always as perfect as the Little House books made it seem. It gave a lot of insight into Laura's worldview. She was a strong woman, but she seemed to only have religion, no real relationship with God, which was sad.
I also read this back in the 70s. Learned a lot about the Ingalls and Wlders that was not part of the Little House series. Also a big Laura Ingalls Wilder nerd!!
We know a lot from her own little house series but in Donald Zochert's book we deal with what Laura didn't write and with the things that in Laura's books were fiction.
I was impressed with how much I didn't realise when reading the little house books, a lot of the facts are still there, but I never realised how much responsiablility Laura got at such a young age, and not just in her own home.
I do love the children's books, and the Disney version (though it annoys me the mother is never wearing a hat outdoors -- some historical details are actually pretty cheap to get right!).
This biography (which I picked up second hand -- not sure how easy it is to find now that subsequent bios have come out) would be good for, say, a twelve year old who loved the Little House books as a seven year old, and is researching Laura's life in order to do a book project.
Anyway, I LOVED the Little House books and read the series several times from first grade until probably middle school (and maybe even reread the only 2 I owned in high school).
The author went back into census records and other pieces of documentation to try to piece together Laura's life and pull out the fact vs fiction of the Little House series.
I've read some reviews that didn't like the author's style and felt he was trying too hard to replicate Laura's style of writing.
:-P If you loved the Little House books and want to learn more about Laura's life, then this biography is one that you should enjoy.
I certainly don't feel as though I know any of the characters from the books or the people who inspired them any better.Most of the book is devoted to summarizing the events of the Little House books while filling in some detail.There is not as much information about the years following Laura and Almanzo's marriage as I'd hoped and virtually nothing about their daughter Rose.For some reason Zochert focused on how terrible life was for Laura and Almanzo in the early years of their marriage to the point of redundancy in some cases.
While their lives certainly were difficult, especially in those early years, I doubt either of them dwelled on it over much.I will say that the cover is hilarious.
Laura Ingalls Wilder's books were so beloved by me in my childhood that I read them over and over (always being able to find something new with each reading).
But that's fine with me, since I always picture Pa as Michael Landon anyway.For me, this book grew especially interesting once Laura entered adulthood.
I love the picture of Laura and Almanzo in their later years.
I think it's the only picture of Laura smiling, and it's such a beautiful smile.
Overall, it was a decent read and is an inspiration to me to rediscover the Laura Ingalls Wilder books I once adored.
For the most part it was a slightly more prose-like retelling of the little house books.
There is also sort of an ongoing debate about whether the little house books should count as biography, or historical fiction.
And that little bird Pa found after the blizzard gets mentioned but not actually explained (I would like to have known what kind of bird it really was, and if it was unexpected to have found it where they did?) The last 50-60 pages do go past where the little house books end, so there was some new information.
I enjoyed this history of Laura Ingalls Wilder.
The author filled in some gaps and inconsistencies from the tv show to the books that I thought were made up but were in fact more true than I realized.
It seemed he was filling space to make his own book longer.
I took my daughter to the Laura Ingalls Wilder home in Pepin, Wisconsin, when she as little.
A small cabin that was built as a replica to the home that they lived in.
It is not the big woods of Laura's time but still a beautiful area to visit.
He attempts to describe to the reader the sights and sounds that Laura must have seen in her early life as a pioneer girl, to the point that at times I felt he was really reaching to make the story exciting or interesting when little real biographical information was available.
I could feel a real shift in the second half of the book, when the available information about Laura Ingalls's later life must have been more plentiful.

At that time, it was one of the only sources for biographical information on Laura's life and as such, I felt like I'd struck gold.
This was where I first started to learn the differences between Laura's "Little House" life and her actual life.
especially by the photos.There are far better books out there now (not to mention information that can be easily found on the internet), but this book was good for its time.
It probably is still a good for people who have read the series but haven't yet delved into Laura's real life; it's a good, basic starting point.
2.5 stars - which means that I would recommend this for fans of the Little House books who would like to read an Ingalls story written for an adult audience.
The prose can get a little purple at times, and it tends to repetition, especially when the material regarding Caroline Ingalls gets thin.
Laura didn't feel these stories were appropriate for a child audience.
I was also surprised to learn how old Laura was when she began writing about her life.
As interesting as this was, I will probably never read it again.
However, he fills in the gaps of Laura's life quite nicely.
I was most interested in the years she left out between Walnut Grove and Silver Lake when Mary went blind.
Also, the years she and Almanzo shared after living in South Dakota were the best part.
Overall, not the best prose and maybe a tad too tedious at times, but interesting if you want to learn more about the facts of Laura's life and inspirations of her stories.
This was just an overall really interesting and well-researched read.
It made for an interesting parallel and diversion from the Little House books - seeing what was fact, what was general fact, where reality deviated for the sake of art.
Overall, it drove home how the spirit was maintained between books and history.
The books fall somewhere between historical fiction, outright fiction, and autobiography.
It's fascinating and I didn't realize how much was spot-on to her life and what parts were tweaked.
Just for the fun of it, I read through the Little House books while reading this book and that made it even more fun and interesting.


By now, any Lauraphile knows the variance between the books and her life.
I don't think that gets glossed over but instead explained more charitably and without shock or dismay.
Seeing how her life, her beliefs, are reflected in the books is clarified.
How to explain the books' enduring popularity takes a little more thought.
Seeing how her family's independence and hard work were not always rewarded (grasshoppers, anyone?
Or six months of blizzards and its resultant near-starvation instead?) probably helped many through those dark days.I think I'll be more able to appreciate her books as *art*, and not *history*, more now.
As far as biographical sorts go, this was much less "academic" than others I've read.
It reads more like story telling with some factual data thrown in to support things.I fully enjoyed it until, just a little past halfway, the author was describing in detail one of the photos of Laura, Mary and Carrie that was a few pages back.
He described Laura as "determined...
defiant" and was saying this because of her "fist clenched defiantly at her side".
When I flipped back to the photo in question, I easily saw that Laura's hand was merely resting on the arm of the chair Mary was sitting in!
I enjoyed learning more about Laura, and getting some details on the years and places missing from her books, but the writing wasn't very good. Also, for every piece of information he provided he left out more, especially details, and there was a lot of attributing feelings to characters without any acknowledgement whether there's evidence they actually felt that way, or he's imagining how they might have felt, and that really annoyed me. And given all the speculating on emotions, there was precious little speculation on facts, such as why baby boy Ingalls died.
