https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/667488.Blithe_Spirit
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:When writer Charles Condomine invites a medium to hold a séance at his country house, he anticipates little more than some harmless fakery and a lot of good material for his new novel. Instead, he gets a ghostly visitation from his dead first wife, rather to the chagrin of his very much alive second one...Noël Coward's classic comedy stars Roger Allam as Charles and Maggie Steed as Madame Arcati.Adapted for radio by Bert Coules. Director Philip Franks. Producer Patrick Rayner.First broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in 2008.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01ghlgw
This play reminds me of the 1992 movie Death Becomes Her with Goldie Hawn, Bruce Willis, and Meryl Streep .*RTC*
I enjoyed reading this play -- it certainly was rather humorous (Madame Arcarti is a marvellous character!). Coward explores superstition, the inequalities of the class system and the breaking of convention in this mystical piece.
Bettie's Books
The more I read plays, the more I grow to enjoy how easy it is to read them.
Everything is so straightforward because all you get to read is some of their movements and all dialogue.
But as a whole this play was very well written.If you wanted to improve your vocabulary this play is a good one to read.
The characters were enjoyable to read about.
Will I read this play again, yes, that is if I want to direct a scene from it in theater.
I think plays don’t get enough credit for how great there writing is.
There's nothing like the ghost of the former spouse to really mess with your happy romance. Coward is so very funny.
Fun farce. Can't help but compare to Oscar Wilde. Different era, similar silliness. Fun to listen to. LATW does such a good job on these radio plays.
I think that the success of the play depended more on his talent for setting and staging – along with casting his characters in unvarying roles.
& Mrs. Condomine, who are hosting a get-together for friends of theirs, Dr.
After dinner, she holds a séance, and who should appear except the first Mrs. Condomine, who has been dead for seven years.
No one can see or hear her except Mr. Condomine, but the current Mrs. Consomine soon realizes that she is in the room.
It was interesting to note that Margaret Rutherford played her role in the London production in 1941.
Reading the play was enjoyable but seeing it live, is even more entertaining.
You gain an appreciation after reading then seeing a play, of the talent it takes for actors to make a character come to life.
An excellent story and script are important, the perfect stage set, costumes and lighting enhance the performance however, it is the actors and their synergy that bring it all together and elevate the experience.
I very much recommend seeing the play and also recommend reading the script beforehand.
There is a lot of dialogue in this play so if you already know the story, it is easier to just relax and enjoy the show!
Critic Louis Kronenberger, citing this as a classiccomedy, notes that it concerns "one of the mostrefreshing menages a trois in modern theater." Souffledmadness, he adds, a blend of the urbane and thefantastic sustain the high-farce. The medium, MmeArcati, who accidentally "calls back" a dead wife, is a riotous role. Last seen on Bwy, Angela Lansbury,poor dear, tottered and couldnt recall lines. The twowives were dreary. Only Rupert Everett added seltzer.Here's a play that provides a very funny read.
I stage managed a production of this play. I remember it was a wonderful madcap comedy. I also remember the leads had a massive amount of lines to memorize. One time I was glad I didn't get cast.
Edited: 16, November 2016I watched this play, and it was hilarious! Not sure when I might read it, but it will probably be happening.
Overall very witty and amusing play. The plot is quirky but gripping and all the main characters are very three-dimensional. However, none of the characters are very likeable.
I'm not usually one to pick up plays to read (I'm more inclined to see them performed instead), but this assignment forced me to give this book a go.The story centers around a couple, Ruth and Charles Condomine.
Charles is a writer who is having a bit of writer's block and this lack of productivity puts a strain on their relationship.
Ruth decides to spice things up a bit, while also providing inspiration and content for Charles's novel, and invites a medium to her dinner party so they can conjure a spirit.
A delightful madcap (and maddeningly sexist at times) romp starring a "successful" medium, a rather annoying man, and his first and second wives. In 2015, I took off work to catch a matinee of the touring production with Angela Lansbury, and I regret nothing. She—and the entire cast—brought such sparkle and physical comedy to Coward's script. Much as with Private Lives, the script isn't great on its own: it needs an excellent cast to bring life and spirit (ha!) to the words.
Blithe Spirit is one of my favorite plays.
The humor runs the gamut of sweetly silly to down right vicious.
Charles and Ruth invite some friends over for a seance with Madame Arcati - unexpectedly she is able to call the spirit of Elvira, Charles's first wife, and chaos ensues.Elvira is petulant, whimsical, and full of mischief.
Ruth is deeply suspicious of Elvira and her motives.
Charles attempts to mediate between them, leading to some of the funniest scenes in the play.
It isn't until Ruth joins Elvira in the afterlife that the whole truth about their relationships comes out.Blithe Spirit is clever and wickedly funny.
This is the first Noel Coward I've read. I'm not impressed. It's a dated play. Ver much a good show for Summerstock or a place where the old men are falling to sleep and their wives are just happy to be there. The wit is present, but tired, and often speaking to another generation. What is fascinating in the play is the central vision of the afterlife. An atheistic, beurocratic, muddled extension of the life. Paper work and waiting in lines. There'd be some interesting stagecraft in the ending of this play. I'd like to see that realized.
An author researching the methods of spirit mediums hosts a seance and unexpectedly brings back the ghost of his ex-wife and they immediately resume their bickering. The current wife gets involved, more death and haunting ensues. Very funny play. What could have been silly was nuanced and clever. The man's ambivalence and the fluid nature of relationships with people deceased made it complex enough to trigger deeper consideration while bringing on the laughter. Highly recommend.
I would love to see the performance of a "ghost" on stage! Sadly I can only read the play for now.
Of course, I had no idea what to expect, but this is funny, sophisticated, and civilized. A seance launches the comedy.
Weird and wacky! I quick listen in the car, and the ending was rather surprising!
An entertaining tale!
Read many times, in order to direct (first time directing!). Fun show, lots of laughs and witty banter.
A really entertaining comedy with a medium, a dead wife haunting a husband and current wife, and a supernatural menage a trois.
This was cute.
A Mr COndomine has Madame Arcadi come to his home supposedly to get background for a novel. She conjures his former wife, making the current one jealous. At the end it seems he had another purpose: to have the former wife kill off the present one.
Blithe Spirit by Noel CowardLight comedyWhen we learn that ghosts will be present in a story, we exp
This was a fairly amusing play, with some quick and witty dialogue and interesting roles for women, but my god, these are some terrible human beings.
It's not that I need my characters to all be moral, upstanding citizens--in fact, the imperfect ones are generally far more interesting--but this was just too much for me.
I can see why this would be a fun one to produce, though, terrible thematic elements and cringe-worthy characters aside.
There are some interesting plot twists, opportunities for spooky special effects, and enough humor to make it laugh out loud funny (occasionally--not as often as I'd like for a farce, though).
Setting: Country home – England?Theme: humor; ghosts; infidelity; truthCharacters:Charles Condomine:
Listened to the Audible production. Good fun!
