https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7572.Even_Cowgirls_Get_the_Blues
You will walk away from this novel not only because it is gross, (or because you have pieces of Tim Robbin's genius on your face), but also because you wont be able to figure out why someone so apparently gifted would write about this trivial crap.
Snort between the lines if you need to.
Its the only way to "get it." Of course, if you really love goats and metaphors about dirty greek deities and non-stop phallic references and explicit but pseudo-lesbianism, you will not need to preform the aformentioned snorting.
If however, the book begins to bug you and you cant figure out why and yet you cannot put it down......snort.
(Maybe you've taken it already and if so, I am jealous of you.) You know that road trip you're always planning, the one where you drive a beat-up, gorgeous, car full of books and old clothes, and mix tapes and takeout containers and random souveneirs of americana, through america, maybe by yourself or maybe with one or a few of the people you love most in the world?
And get, finally, to the other side of the country, tired and sore and stained and achy and grouchy and just totally, totally transcendent, and feel that you understand yourself in a way you always wanted to understand yourself, but never knew how to get to before?This book is like that road trip.
Here it is:I had to choose between continuing to read ECGTB or staring at the back of the airplane seat in front of me.
I chose the back of the seat.Repeatedly.I'd read a section, and think to myself "This is shit!" and put it down to stare at the seat in front of me.
Just read the damn thing!" But I couldn't!So I would stare at the seatback for awhile, then pick up the book again and try to read it.
So I would put the book down again and stare.
I found the first two thirds of the book to be engaging, after that I felt like I was reading the term paper of an intro to philosophy student.Also, even if the first two thirds were engaging, I was often uncomfortable, and not uncomfortable in that "hey, I'm stretching my thoughts beyond their normal boundaries" kind of uncomfortable, just the regular kind of uncomfortable.Take for example the legend of Sissy's earliest hitchhiking endeavors.
Repeatedly reading this male fantasy of a woman's sexuality grossed me out.The women in this book are uber-objectified and fetishized.
So, I was alternately grossed out and bored.I imagine I'll have to read something else of Tom Robbins' though to see if it's his style that I don't like, or if it was just this particular book.
Lost a star as one of the morals of the story is "Lesbians, deep down, need dicking." I'm not going to get mad at a lesbian-identified person who falls in love with or wants to have sex with cis men, but Robbins goes on to explain that this is literally what lesbians, lovely and sweet and cute as their affairs are, need. Boo.
Πραγματικά δεν ξέρω τι θα κάνω όταν θα έχω διαβάσει όλα τα βιβλία του.Το συγκεκριμένο τώρα, είναι από τα πρώτα που έγραψε και αυτό φαίνεται.
Σε κάποια σημεία είναι λίγο κουραστικό αν έχεις διαβάσει και άλλα δικά του βιβλία (γιατί επαναλαμβάνεται), αλλά και πάλι είναι αρκετά απολαυστικό.Σε κάθε περίπτωση, ο τρελο-Τομ έχει μια ξεχωριστή θέση στην καρδιά μου γιατί ξέρει να μην παίρνει τον εαυτό του και πολύ στα σοβαρά και τι έχει πραγματική σημασία: η αγάπη και το γέλιο.Έχω όμως και την εξής παρατήρηση: εκεί στον Αίολο πρέπει να δουν ξανά λίγο το θέμα επιμέλεια ή, εάν είναι μεμονωμένο περιστατικό του συγκεκριμένου βιβλίου, να το διορθώσουν.
Okay so overall I did like this book, but I am not giving it more then these two stars.
Because I have a problem with a man that writes about lesbians who then interjects himself sexually into the story at the end and has the lesbians hook up with men.
Otherwise the story would have been awesome.
I felt so cheated at the end.
I am really happy I bought my copy of your book used and urge anyone who does want to read this to do the same.
Γενικά δεν τον προτείνω εύκολα γιατί είναι weirdo και εγώ δεν είμαι τόσο weirdo (ελπίζω).
Το πρώτο ήταν το Άρωμα του ονείρου (πολύ ιδιαίτερο βιβλίο με την καλή έννοια), το δεύτερο ο Τρυποκάρυδος (my favorite), το τρίτο η Θιβετιανή Ροδακινόπιτα (που να πω τη μαύρη αλήθεια δεν ικανοποίησε τον ‘’ουρανίσκο’’ μου).
Ξεκίνησα τις πρώτες σελίδες με ενθουσιασμό γιατί αφενός ήταν δώρο κα ήθελα να το υπερλατρέψω , αφετέρου μου είχε φανεί πιασάρικο το στόρυ.
BIG MISTAKE!Το πρώτο μισό του βιβλίου είναι απολαυστικό με άφθονες χιουμοριστικές ριπές αλλά στο δεύτερο τα περισσότερα κεφάλαια δεν έχουν διηγηματικό ενδιαφέρον.
Ειλικρινά απογοητεύτηκα γιατί μου άρεσαν οι κεντρικές ηρωίδες, ειδικά η τρου καουμπόισσα Μπονάτσα Τζελυ-Μπην.
Ha ha ho ho and FUCK THIS BOOK.On the upside, Even Cowgirls Get The Blues proves that I am not biased toward one of my favorite authors.
I adore Tom Robbins, and have hitherto enjoyed four of his books.
I rank 'Jitterbug Perfume' and 'Fierce Invalids' among my favorite books of all time.
This is Tom Robbins, at his most nonsensical).
Suffice it to say, a woman is born with enormous thumbs, and man are they GLORIOUS.
Wrap it up with the book's completely trite philosophical conclusions:"Time enslaves us!" "Magic and poetry will save us all!""The enemy of humankind is the dull mind!" .
A hilarious and engaging read that also questioned and affirmed pieces of my own life in powerful ways.
Relationships on the move - the whole idea of wandering, creating real relationships, and also staying in the present and allowing life to flow as it comes.
Anyways, classic Tom Robbins style keeps this an interesting read, with a fair amount of hilarious static to sort through before getting messages.
But also interesting and hilarious in a way that is ultimately affirming and inspiring no matter what crazy situation you find yourself in.
I love Tom Robbins' twisted sense of humour, I love his philosophical meanderings and smatterings of bizarre facts, and I fully expected to love this book.
Because Mr. Robbins pretends he is writing a treatise on female rights, starring lesbians and cowgirls and a hitchhiking philosopheress with a strange but wonderful disfigurement who all resist 1970s society's inclination to turn them into homemakers.
SHAME ON YOU!!!I did, however, like the twisted sense of humour, the philosophical meanderings, and the smattering of bizarre facts -- so two stars from me.
Random, random, in your face moralizing, random...." Having well written words doesn't excuse these faults for me.The book was also a huge disappointment for me since I saw the movie and loved it.
For all the lady-loving which the author clearly thinks is hot, he states definitively that women can't be complete without men in the moral wrap-up.
I think the conservatives who are afraid of something they can't understand are doing us less of a disservice than people who trivialize same sex relationships in this way.
I think I'm supposed to like this but it just annoyed me. Good narrator though. Life's too short for annoying books. Moving on...
Anyone over 12 who reads the book will know it has NOTHING TO DO with "real" lesbians, any more than STAR WARS is a documentary about the daily lives of people working at NASA.
The book was obviously -- and I do mean OBVIOUSLY -- written by a heterosexual male who loves the IDEA of lesbians (in the nude, all the time)but has never really met one.So like, why is that a problem?
It's interesting that the same political correctness types who want to lynch Robbins for not making his lesbians dull, sour, man-hating battle axes turn a blind eye some of the other characters in the book.
I hated this book.
HATED IT.
HATED IT.
I think Tom Robbins is a chump.
I felt like this was about listening to Tom Robbins' drone on and on about the "great" metaphysical observations he could make about the state of human relationships and the universe, and that got really old really fast.
Fuck that, not happening, I can't stand him, and I feel like if I were to ever meet him in public it would take everything in my power not to punch him in his arrogant little face.
Μια ιστορία για μια κοπέλα η οποία έχει μια δυσμορφία-δύο μεγάλους αντίχειρες-που,όμως, μαθαίνει να τη "χρησιμοποιεί" για να κάνει ωτοστόπ!Ένα (ακόμα) σουρεάλ, μαγικό, αλλά και "λογικό μέσα στην τρέλα του" βιβλίο από τον Robbins. Ένα βιβλίο που μιλά για αυτούς τους "διαφορετικούς" ανθρώπους, για όλους όσους προσπαθούν να μάθουν ποιοι πραγματικά είναι (ή να ξεχάσουν ποιοι είναι), για την ελευθερία, για τον έρωτα (σε διάφορες μορφές).Ο Robbins μας θυμίζει ότι μπορούμε να γελάσουμε με ο,τιδήποτε και πως η σοφία κρύβεται ακόμα και σε "ανάλαφρα", μικρά πράγματα.Απολαυστικότατο.
Gosh, but I hated this book. It felt smarmy. And mind you, I love people like Pynchon et al, but this felt like it thought it was smart but wasn't very, and it hasn't aged well. Made myself finish it because I'd been told I'd love Robbins, but this was my introduction and I never looked back.
This sentence is made of yak wool.
This sentence is made of ice.
This sentence was made in Japan.
Like many italic sentences, this one has Mafia connections.
This sentence refuese to be diagrammed.
This sentence leaks.
This sentence once spit in a book reviewer's eye.
This sentence can do the funky chicken.
This sentence has seen too much and forgotten too little.
If this sentence has been a snake you'd have bitten it.
This sentence went to jail with Clifford Irving.
This sentence went to Woodstock.
And this little sentence went wee wee wee all the way home.
Even Cowgirls Get the Blues offers a hitherto unexplored form of fantasy which is wild, unpredictable, hilarious and beautiful.
It is no surprise that Tom Robbins once again seduces the reader with his ever-intentive ways of expressing life and emotion through words.
Who could have dreamt up such an idea except for Tom Robbins?Even Cowgirls Get the Blues is simultaneously sensual, sexy, cutting and beautifully graphic.
It's about magic versus mysticism.
It's about religion versus truth.
I'll end this review with one of the many snippets of wisdom that resonated with me in particular."There's nothing wrong with nature being dumb and ugly because it is simultaneously, paradoxically, brilliant and superb.
oh, and all women and young girls are seemingly down with uninvited sexual contact, even when it takes the form of molestation by creepy dudes in cars, 'cause that's not gross at all) and you have a novel it took me three freaking weeks to get through, when the typical amount of time I'd spend on a book of this length is closer to three hours.
Because Tom Robbins is a sexist ass and can't help proving it every other page or so, just in case you didn't believe him the first hundred or so times he tried to make that patently clear.

Right. I skipped the book and went straight to the movie because of course I wasn't about to waste no time reading another *book* by Mr Robbins but I did need corroboration of my intense dislike of this nut-job and of course the film was very convincing that I need never bother thinking about reading another of Mr Robbins' books. I think I'd rather read all the sequels to Wicked or something from Hermann Hesse than another Robbins book.
So embarrassing.
I think this book can be best summarized by quickly scanning the list of reviews; people love it or they loathe it.Me?
I loved it.I'll admit that I might be biased in favor of this book simply because I have a fairly unusual set of opposable digits myself.
Well, its is a story about thumbs, cowgirls, body odor, literary theory, feminism, epiphanies, dirty old men, the end of time, sex, psychoanalysis and liberation.
If you have an open mind and are patient with his beautiful but sometimes nonsensical ramblings, there's a good chance you'll love this book as much as I do.
Şöyle bir baktım yorumlara, herkes "i hated" diye başlamış. Niye hated arkadaşım, neden sevmediniz bu kitabı? Robbins'in cıvık oyunculuğuna ben de çok tahammül edemiyorum gerçi, o yüzden bir türlü cesaret edemiyordum kitaplarına başlamaya. Kalın kalın kitaplar da olduklarından bir süre sonra "öeeh" dedirtebiliyorlar. Ama kurgularına bayılıyorum. Her şeyi her şeyle karıştırması (mitolojik göndermeler, fizik, metafizik, gerçek, hayal, oyun, ciddiyet), hayatla ve doğayla ilgili fikirleri muazzam. İnanılmaz keyifliydi, inanılmaz!
There are maybe three minor plot points that occur within the first hundred pages.
Throw in a large chunk of sexuality that seemed more like the author’s personal desires for lesbianism and the veneer of style kept peeling away to reveal little else.I’m not the fastest reader in the world, but I’m certainly not the slowest, and after a month with Even Cowgirls Get the Blues, I was only two-thirds of the way through.
Apparently books are meant to be read, but I just wasn’t returning to Even Cowgirls Get the Blues, so I just left it be.
My all-time, absolute, favorite book ever.
The 'stranded-on-a-desert-island-with-only-one-book' favorite.
I can read this one over and over.Hitch-hikers, lesbians, whooping cranes, feminine hygenine products - it has everything.
And written in a lyrical manner that begs to be read out loud.
Parts of this book are poetry.)I haven't given away as many copies of this as I have 'Good Omens' because I think it doesn't have as broad an appeal.
Really - everyone in the world should read this book.
Bush, but I fear that his reaction would be "I liked the birdies".And it has one of the best character names of all time.
Yeah, yeah, I know. I'm supposed to love this book/author. But mostly, this book read like a frat guy's fantasy about women.Have fun reading it for yourself, though. I'm not nearly as clever as Tim Robbins.
Ah, now I remember why I loved Robbins and why I stopped.
My first year of college ended in 1983, and one of my new roommates that summer introduced me to the writing of Tom Robbins (Thank you, Kendra!) Such daring, such freedom: you can do whatever you want and screw The Man. Here was this guy telling me how to do anything I wanted and have fun, have a laugh even.
Not that I remember him in particular: I spent a year opening books for authors at book signings, and there were a number I never read again for being awful people to the help.#MeToo
Δεν είναι ότι δε μ' αρέσει η γραφή του Ρόμπινς (το villa incognito μου άρεσε αρκετά και ο Τρυποκάρυδος είναι από τα αγαπημένα μου βιβλία ever)...δεν είναι ούτε ότι η ιστορία δεν είναι καλή- το θέμα, οι σωματικές δυσμορφίες ή/και η ομοφυλοφιλία, θα μπορούσε να δημιουργήσει ένα αριστούργημα...
Είναι ότι ο συγγραφέας ξεφεύγει πάαααααααααρα πολύ!
Πώς η Σίσσυ θα κουνήσει τα δάχτυλα της για να μη μουδιάσουν (32 παράγραφοι), ο Τσινγκ, ο τρελογιατρός και οι άνθρωποι των Ρολογιών (322 παράγραφοι)...Επιπλέον δε μ'άρεσαν αρκετά πράγματα που αναφέρονται π.χ.
ότι οι γυναίκες βρωμάνε (?!), κάτι που ελπίζω απλά να είναι αστείο και να μη το ενστερνίζεται ο συγγραφέας.
