https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60223.See_Jane_Score
Unlike the first book in this series (Simply Irresistible) I had no issues with the hero and heroine--they were very likable (even if Luc was a bit spoiled and a little selfish) and so well written that they just jumped off the pages and into my heart.
It was so easy to root for Jane, who was so physically unlike the "Barbie"-types that Luc was normally attracted to.
I also loved how Jane had a sort of second secret career as a writer for a men's magazine detailing the scandalous adventures of "Honey Pie", and how this secret came between her and Luc.
Qué genial que es este libro!!!!
4,5 estrellas para la pareja más realista, emocionalmente hablando, que he leído últimamente.Me ha encantado Jane, he empatizado muchísimo con ella.
¿Que hay que crear un caparazón alrededor de ti para no sufrir?
Pues se crea.
¿Que hay que echarle cara al asunto para no aparentar estar destruida?
Pues se echa.
Muy bien Jane.Y Luc también me ha encantado.
Orgullo herido se llama eso Lucky, pero que requetebien que terminas solucionándolo.
Cuando se quiere, no hay orgullos que valgan.¿He contado demasiado????
Ay, lo siento, es que este libro me ha hecho sonreír incansablemente estos dos últimos días...
Funny, touching, romantic, and interesting all at once, I loved this story!
It was absolutely perfect for the mood I was in.
My first read by RG and I can't wait to read more.A few things I loved about See Jane Score:1.
I loved Jane.2.
The hero is absolutely swoon-worthy, but not overly cliched.
3. The relationship between Jane and Luc develops naturally and realistically.
7. I skipped book 1 but didn't feel lost at all.
SJS has a perfect balance between sports talk and romance.
I enjoyed both aspects of the book.9.
I still get the warm fuzzies whenever I think about this story.
The heroine is Jane Alcott, a five-foot nothing, flat-chested brunette who writes a "single girl in the city" column for the Seattle Times & has just been given the temporary assignment of covering the Chinooks for a season.
Fortunately for us, Rachel Gibson doesn't wait long to put her protagonists completely "in the know" about each other...bringing them both (literally) to their knees (though not at the same time, of course):)The book has some great laugh-out-loud moments as Jane takes some hard knocks in her quest to become "one of the boys" and prove that women do indeed have the right to be in a locker room (ahem...as long as you don't look down).
Relectura.Me gusta tanto este libro y lo disfruto tantísimo, que me lo he vuelto a terminar en un suspiro.La historia, sin ser nada del otro mundo es un disfrute total. Eres testigo de como va yendo hacia adelante la historia de Jane y Luc y es una delicia. DISFRUTO, DISFRUTO Y DISFRUTO.Me encanta.me encantan las series de deportistas, este libro me ha encantado muchisisisismo Jane es genial y Luc... YISUSCRAIST Luc.. chicas ahora entiendo lo de la herradura... es LA HERRADURA
Review written March 1, 20184 Stars - Simply lovely...So much fun. Perfect traditional light and teasing style for a SEP romances admirer as me. It will be a lot more reading (or listening) to Gibson’s books and the first to pick uo is the next part in this m/f hockey heroes series (standalones).Great start. I’m happy dancing. *****I listened to the 9 hours audibook terrific narrated by Kathleen Early.I LIKE - witty heroines and sexy strong hockey players ... who doesn’t?
Gibson's combination of light humour, endearing heroines and reformed asshole heros makes her books the perfect little light reads (plus she doesn't overdo the steam and profane language is kept to a minimum - thank god I do dislike erotica).Jane happens to be the shy sort which makes this a shy-girl-gets-the-hot-man sort of storyline which never fails to work wonders, and Gibson takes full advantage of it.
I love Rachel Gibson's writing style because she doesn't overdo it - she keeps it simple and sweet, relying on gentle humour and curbing excessive use of sex scenes and expletives that most of the 'popular' contemporary romances are fond of (Kristen Ashley comes to mind).
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
Bad-boy hockey player falls for "plain Jane" journalist (4.5 stars)When I first read See Jane Score, I thought it was absolutely amazing and would have given it way more than five stars if I could have.
That's why it was a nice change to have in this book the heroine be the one who does something that causes the conflict (one of Jane's "Honey Pie" articles) and have her be the one with all the regret and guilt and the hero be the injured party.
RECOMMENDATIONSFor other wonderful sports-related contemporary romances, check out these books: (1) 
This is the second book I've read by Rachel Gibson and I really liked it!
I liked it more than the first one in this series but both are excellent.I loved Luc and his uncomplicated life that was made complicated by Jane, a woman unlike any female Luc had dated.
And then eventually against his better judgement, didn't want to stop.Jane was a very relatable character.
I was also pleased Luc was from Edmonton, my hometown, so kudos for that!I plan on reading much more from Rachel Gibson.
That may sound odd, but I feel I could be reading about my neighbor or the woman down the street.
Another enjoyable read by Rachel Gibson. This only my second book by her and I really like her writing style. She gives you sweet, sexy and just the right amount of angst.This is Jane and Luc's story. I loved the 'plain Jane' catching the attention of the unattainable hot hockey player. The push and pull between them had me flipping the pages. It did take a bit of time for things to heat up between them. Then the red dress happened and there was no turning back. :)
Al igual que el primer libro de la serie, me ha enganchado un montón, no me ha costado nada hacerme con la prosa de Rachel Gibson.Quizás éste libro tiene una historia más bien tópica, el típico deportista cachas que está buenísimo, y la protagonista que es una periodista listilla, con pocas experiencias positivas en lo que a hombres se refiere.
Y ahí será donde tendrá el encontronazo con Luc Martineau.Tras dos libros que me han gustado muchísimo, seguiré leyendo a Rachel Gibson.
La lástima es que a España no ha llegado el 3º libro de la serie.
After a re-read, not sure I'd give it 5 Stars, but it remains one of my favorites at 3.5 Stars.
I just love this author.
I really wish some of the new authors would take a lesson from her.
Polished.Another refreshingly wonderful read by a favorite author.Happy Reading!!+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++Original Read: 04/15/2012Woo Hoo -- finally available for my NOOK!!++++++++++++++++++++++++++++Need a comfort read so coming back to a "tried and true" author for me, but a new book.
I've read a few lately that have left a bad taste and need something to clear my head a bit.
REVIEW to come soon.
See Jane Score5 StarsWhile sports romances are not really my thing, Rachel Gibson's Chinooks books are light and fun and sexy. Jane is a wonderful heroine full of spirit and sass, and Luc is a real charmer despite his decidedly self-absorbed personality. The minor conflict revolving around Jane's "secret career" is, thankfully, well-written and not overly drawn out or angsty. In sum, a lovely read for a rainy day. Looking forward to reading more in the series.
The storyline is fairly predictable:Jane Alcott, tough and smart Seattle Times reporter with a horrible sense of style, is assigned to cover the Seattle Chinooks Hockey team.
The hockey theme was a nice bonus as I’m a fan of the sport.I liked the story but didn’t love it.I’m a big fan of from enemies-to friends-to lovers’ trope.
One moment Luc is totally indifferent to Jane, even little irritated by her, and the next one- he is madly in lust to the point of “can’t think of anything else but have you in bed” type of lust.
Overall, a nice and enjoyable read and if you like sport themed CRs, you may want to give it a try.
This was kinda 'blah' for me.I finished this book last night and while I remember most of what happened, nothing positive sticks out.I didn't like the way Jane treated herself.
it's simply "I didn't feel anything one way or another about it."And that feels like a more negative review than the reviews I give where I'm screaming bloody murder at the stupidity of the heroine.
At least those books that I hate so much have left me with some sort of feeling, even though it's negative and probably not the feeling the author was hoping for.
The book was fine but I feel like something very important in the story is missing.
I like the books in this series, but I'll never be crazy about them.
It's weird because at some parts it feels like the story is gonna get much better but it never does.
You just read this book if you wanna have a nice, light read.
Just a book to pass the time, but it does have some very nice moments between the main characters that make you feel it wasn't worth it reading it.
You do enjoy the books in this series.
Our male protagonist didn't have John and Mark charm (seriously though, Mark is bae. Heart eyes.) And our female protagonist was kinda okay, but I did like this book.
3,5/5
Quizás me había creado demasiadas expectativas con este libro y al final me he quedado un poco chafada. La historia me ha gustado y el tema deportista vs periodista me encanta y aunque me ha gustado mucho la forma en que está escrito y la dinamica de la historia, al final se me ha quedado un poco corto de intensidad y quizá un poco precipitado.
THIS BOOK WAS SO FREAKING GOOD GUYS I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS ONE TO THE ITTY BITTY TITTIE SOCIETY AND SOMEONE WHO LOVES SPORTS ROMANCES
Dated but fun. But I guess since it was written at the turn of the century (21st, lol), that kinda makes sense. I keep trying sports romances and I just think maybe they're not my favorite thing. Or maybe I'm reading the wrong ones? Too cute maybe? And I actually grabbed the wrong book by this author. I meant to snag Nothing But Trouble, so I'll give her another shot before moving on completely. =)
Hockey players are hot, and nobody writes them hotter than Mrs. Gibson!As a reporter, Jane's next job is to cover the Chinooks hockey team and travel with them on all their games.
Especially since Jane secretly writes an erotic column and has been writing about her sexy encounters with a certain hockey player.This was such a fun book.
This is the second book in the Chinooks Hockey Team although each one can be read as a stand-alone.
Other than that, this was another great performance by Kathleen and I will be listening to more books narrated by her in the future.
After the last Rachel Gibson book I read, Sex Lies & Online dating, I just was not looking forward to this one.
But I'd already bought it (for $0.75) so I made myself read it.For whatever reason, though, See Jane Score was immensely better than Sex, Lies & Online Dating.
The flow and writing of the book was better and easier to read.
I don't know why there is such a huge difference stylistically between these two books, but I hope Gibson reverts to what made me like See Jane Score, and the other book of hers I've read.Overall, it was a cute little romance.
While I really liked the H/h as individuals, I just felt that I couldn't fully connect with them and was dubious as to how they connected together.Jane Alcott started off as a wallflower reporter who found herself attracted and falling for Luc Martineau, the Seattle Chinooks' goalie.
Their interactions started off cold and iffy but the gradual mutual attraction came through and they found themselves liking (and lusting) each other more and more.I liked the slow burn and I liked both Jane and Luc but something was holding me back.
I didn't know enough about them to completely buy into it.The sex scenes were incredibly hot though; and that, along with the awesome sports action, made this 4 stars for me.
This is a reread for me and since it was game 7 of the NHL finals tonight I thought I needed a hockey book. Cute story, not as good as I remembered, but still very good, sexy sports read. Highly recommend the series for those arrogant sports heroes that I love.
Audio version narrated by Kathleen Early.An old favorite in print is now a new favorite in audio!
Son totalmente distintos y aun así se complementan muy bien.Hay, además, unas cuantas escenas con el resto de jugadores que me han encantado y le han dado mucha frescura al libro.Sí, yo diría que de momento es mi libro favorito de la autora.Si os gusta el romance con estrellas del deporte como protagonistas y mujeres fuertes, con un punto divertido y también mucha pasión de la buena, os recomiendo este libro y a esta autora.
The plot was predictable as were the characters so really, this is made engaging by the pacing and Gibson's skill in presenting the expected well and with enough heart for me to care.I really liked the idea of Jane's dual nature as the serious newspaper writer with the sideline writing scandalous sex stories.
So even though standard, again, Gibson has the skill to give him heart and I cared about what happened with him enough to root for him to get the girl.As you may have guessed seeing the above and the four-star rating, this was a 3.5 that I'm rounding up.
It's a fairly quick read and it's a while since I read a really good book so I've gone down the reread path today.
Had some reading time today and reread the whole thing.
It's a really well-written and laugh-out-loud story.
But as time passes and they get to know each other better, they fall hard for each other.The characters in this story have integrity and depth, and their relationship is convincing.
One of Ms Gibson's best books, and well worth the reread.I have to say though, I dislike the cover with the big red lips.
About time for a more modern cover, please.
