https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11908.The_Adventures_of_Augie_March

This book seems to be an underrated classic.
From its opening lines, it takes along the heady projectory of Augie March in Chicago and elsewhere - not quite a Horatio Alger but perhaps a less burlesque Ignatius J Reilly whose author must have had Bellow's book in mind when he wrote a Confederacy of Dunces.
The voice that Bellow found here is rich in both Chicago street vernacular but with erudite references that reveal a more philosophical, deeper voyage despite the hijinks and hilarious adventures of the protagonist.
I really loved this book perhaps even more than Seize the Day or Herzog.
Saul Bellow's the Adventures of Augie March is one of three things; it's either Saul Bellow's most verbose novel, a piece of fiction that almost stands as an historical document of Chicago during the Great Depression, or one of the best contemporary examples of the picaresque novel.
And toward the end, the reader can't help but clearly ascertain the heavy-handed emphasis of Augie's inability to adapt to the real world; most certainly a Quixotic type character, and it's unlikely that Bellow, writing what can only be construed as a novel in the picaresque fashion, had Cervantes in mind when molding Augie March.
A little man in a big world, all alone and lost in a crowd – how to find one’s walk of life and what way to choose?Friends, human pals, men and brethren, there is no brief, digest, or shorthand way to say where it leads.
This lies behind boredom.Fortune and misfortune, adventures and misadventures, conceptions and misconceptions, understanding and misunderstanding: that’s the stuff the human life is made of.
I am an American, Chicago born - Chicago, that somber city - and go at things as I have taught myself, free-style, and will make the record in my own way: first to knock, first admitted; sometimes an innocent knock, sometimes a not so innocent.  What an opening sentence, which manages to prefigure the entire novel - the frenetic energy of it, diverting this way and that, moving enigmatically from one idea to the next by an inscrutable trajectory. It is clear that Augie will make the record in
It is clear that Augie will make the record in his own way, and from the moment of introduction he proceeds to submerge the unprepared reader in a deluge of detail, a life story related as a life is lived: one event following the one before, this one followed then by another, then the next, relentlessly and with unceasing energy, the often banal minutiae of accumulated friends, lovers, enemies, successes, failures, hopes and anguishes - some are pivotal in Augie's life, but many simply pass through, never to be seen again, leaving barely a trace.
And yet the experience of Augie March somehow manages to transcend the somber Chicago of the depression and stand for something universal - it is the story of finding oneself, of trying to become, and of never really knowing if you got there, or if you ever will.
Surely that means something!" And Mr. Mitchell paused, so slightly, and then he made his lips purse--he MonaLisaed me, the bastard--and he said, "No. No-(almost a giggle)-No, I don't think so." And then he said, "Have you read Augie March?" "No, not yet." "You should really read Augie March!" And he actually looked happy, not triumphant, but like someone recalling a first, passionate love.And so, I did what any certifiable American would do: I refused to read  The Adventures of Augie March for 44 years.
Maybe if I had read it when meekly challenged by Mr. Mitchell I would have loved it more.
4.5/5 In the end you can't save your soul and life by thought. But if you think, the least of the consolation prizes is the world. I may be American, but I am not Chicago born. Nor am I male, or of the generation that grew up in the roar of the twenties and came into adulthood soon after the crash. My life, and more importantly my perspective on said life, would be much different creatures than the ones I currently clamber around on. I think, though, they would've been much like Augie's, on an a
In the end you can't save your soul and life by thought.
I think, though, they would've been much like Augie's, on an axis to the unknown that is neither guaranteed to exist nor enviable in its existence.For what I value above all else is a sense of justified living, some measure of verifiable existence that is not constrained any more than what the soul can bear.
So I will stick with the word soul, and make use of its improved flexibility.Augie can see these effects, whether by the immense amount of life experience or by the scraps of formal education that he's managed to gather.
You could tell those popes wanted to be Alexander McQueen and they were all 6 centuries too early.What, I hear you cry, does this have to do with Augie March, the mid 20th century Chicago likely lad?
Only that I tiptoed out of the book and the cathedral with the same sour feeling.
Augie March is of course quite brilliant, but it was a kind of brilliance which felt like force-feeding the pore old reader.
It was like being trapped on an endless train journey with a classic bore who doesn’t know what details to leave out of a story and also doesn’t know what the point of his story is.
Introduction: The Great American Augie, by Christopher Hitchens--The Adventures of Augie March
She was impossible to satisfy.In retrospect Augie is able to see she was “one of those Machiavellis of small street and neighborhood that my young years were full of”, but at the time he took to heart many of her lessons, including a solid work ethic and a wariness over pursuit of love:”You don’t know what’s coming if you think you can get by with laughing and eating peach pie.”…“Nobody asks you to love the whole world, only to be honest, ehrlich.
I love how even though Augie dropped out of school, he is always reading and is always trying to forge lessons out of life.
Είχα μεγάλες προσδοκίες για το πολυδιαφημισμένο "μεγάλο αμερικανικό μυθιστόρημα". Όντως μεγάλο. 860 σελίδες. Αν και ο Pynchon, σίγουρα και κάποιοι συμπατριώτες του έχουν γράψει μεγαλύτερα. Αυτά για το μέγεθος.Όσο για το περιεχόμενο, έφτασα με το ζόρι στις 200 σελίδες, είδα ότι δεν άλλαξε μοτίβο καθόλου, οπότε αποφάσισα να εγκαταλείψω το μεγάλο αυτό αμερικάνικο μυθιστόρημα. Από περιέργεια ανέτρεξα στις 100 πρώτες σελίδες και καταμέτρησα 60 πρόσωπα, 60 χαρακτήρες τους οποίους περιγράφει με αρκετά λόγια ο συγγραφέας. Στις 800 σελίδες δεν μπορώ να φανταστώ πόσα ακόμα θα μπορούσε να έχει.Αυτά.
Martin Amis, one of Bellow's acolytes, who doesn't suffer fools gladly, said simply this. After you finish Bellow at his best- and this is without question one of his absolute best- you don't even think you can write a novel...ever.That's how good this is. I was ecstatic when I finished it.Streamlined, wonderfully paced, exuberantly told. Augie is one of the best characters you could ever hope to come across. Full of life, totally unpretentious, endlessly inventive adventerous, curious and human.This is very much what it means to be alive.It's all in here. Enjoy immediately!
The true adventure story is one that not only takes you through a man's life and everything that happens to him, but of his own discovery of who he is and what he wants to be in the world.
I had only read herzog by him, a very long time ago, but did not get it at all..maybe the time was not right because with the adventures of augie march my experience was completely different, I connected from the first moment, and loved every minute of it.

Arrastei-me, penosamente, pelas primeiras quatrocentas páginas e as últimas trezentas folheei vertiginosamente. Mas o livro é bom. O Martin Amis diz que é o grande romance da literatura americana. Até faz parte de algumas listas de leitura obrigatória e tudo. O problema é mesmo meu que não atino com Saul Bellow.
Looks like I'll have to change my final opinion of Saul Bellow, the same way I did with Cormac McCarthy.
Tempers it in his crazy head like molten metal in a crucible.One more example, this one a little lower in brow-level: "There's something about those business envelopes with the transparent oblong address part that my soul runs away from." True of everyone, I'd think, except who has ever said it like that?But it's not just the style that makes this book great.
Originally strong, her voice was crippled by weeping and asthma, and the whites of her eyes coppery from the same causes, a burning, morose face, piteous, and her spirit untamed by thoughts or the remote considerations that can reconcile people to awfuler luck than she had” (16).Those are both from the beginning only because they are the first two I came across—I certainly could have opened the book at random and found other examples.As for the story, it just recounts the life of Augie March, “an Americn, Chicago born—Chicago, that somber city—[who] goes at things as [he] has taught himself, freestyle, and will make the record in [his] own way, first to knock, first admitted; sometimes an innocent knock, sometimes a not so innocent” (first sentence).
E' una domanda profonda che Bellow investiga con partecipazione e discernimento: la prigione della visione che gli altri hanno di noi e insieme delle quattro mura del nostro essere.
E certo è vincente infine lo sfortunato Augie March che veste elegantemente l'abito calviniano indossando il quale è permesso “diventare senza smettere di essere, essere senza smettere di diventare”: cosa che a un semplice mortale suona come un irreperibile segreto, ma che per il narratore canadese consiste con naturalezza nell'essere se stesso, continuando a scrivere rigorosamente e con audacia la propria fortuna.«Ci vuole un momento come questo per scoprire quanto ha sofferto il tuo cuore; e per capire, come se non bastasse, che per tutto il tempo in cui hai creduto di oziare si stava svolgendo un duro lavoro.

So then Augie March a rather unfortunate young fellow growing up in Chicago during the great depression who like many other people at this time struggled and this results in him having to borrow, steal, cheat, and charm his way in life while still in education, taking on a number of rather obscure and lousy jobs to support his poor family who some are of ill health including his simple brother George and Grandma, he would get to met a vast number of characters from all different backgrounds and many become fond of him.
(Why the book jacket would quote three Englishmen about the Great American Novel is a mystery not explained by the editors at Penguin Classics.) James Wood, in his almost ecstatic essay "Saul Bellow's Comic Style," called Bellow "probably the greatest writer of American prose of the 20th century--where greatest means most abundant, various, precise, rich, lyrical," and goes on to give numerous examples of that remarkable prose, many from Augie March.
Whitman, of course, is perhaps the most quintessentially American writer there is, so perhaps its those Whitmanesque qualities that makes Augie March such a good candidate for Great American Novel.
"The Adventures of Augie March" was once a great novel but its quality is eroding away.
Of the works they produced none had more energy or dazzle than "The Adventures of Augie March."Today, however, "Augie March" is a novel composed of 536 brilliant pages that are together tedious in the extreme.
If you are already familiar with the era, read this novel; it has many fine moments.
If you are not, I would suggest that you begin to acquaint yourself with the Jewish tradition in American literature by reading: "Catch 22" (Joseph Heller), "Good-bye Columbus" (Philip Roth), and "Howl" (Allen Ginsburg).
I can imagine Bellow writing this in a frenzy on a roll of toilet paper, in the same way that Kerouac wrote  On the Road, though I am almost certain he didn't.I enjoyed the Audible version; although the inability to go back after the fact and savor language is a downside of an audiobook, I don't think that I would have had the patience to read every word if I had been reading a physical book.
But that enforced patience (I listened to it on 1x speed, which I reserve only for books which I love) allowed me to savor Bellow's poetry.I enjoyed Augie's adventures all over Chicago, Mexico and France, but maybe picaresque novels create a little bit of an emotional distance.
Augie's struggle is not to get ahead, but to take the helm of his fate, to direct it toward better waters, to live the way he wants, the way he feels is right for him, and the ways of life for other men be damned.
I had looked all my life for the right thing to do, for a fate good enough, that I had opposed people in what they wanted to make of me...
Disappointed in business and adventure and love, and seemingly the victor of nothing, Augie's equipoise in the face of Life is the great human victory.
What a chore reading this book was!
Me neither, but Bellows has, and he inserts every historical, mythological, biblical and classical reference, every Yiddish, Latin and French phrase, as well as every long word in English he knows, as if to say, “Hey, look how smart I am!”.
But I found myself reading entire paragraphs without understanding the meaning.
And to me, that makes reading just a waste of time.
However, on the bright side, this is one more book from the Modern Library’s list 100 best novels in English of the 20th century that I can cross off.
I knew from the first couple paragraphs of this novel that it was fantastic, amazing, like a well-built Italian or German sports car.
However, once Bellow jumps into Augie's flight to Mexico with Thea (where they try to to catch Mexican lizards with an wussy eagle) it was equivalent to discovering that the sports car you are driving actually has 6 gears.
Anyway, this is one of those books where sentences seem likely to escape the gravity of English, the characters are as big as planets, and the plot is as big as Eternity or at least the Universe or at least that part of the Universe that is visible from Chicago.
This novel is unquestionably one of the great masterpieces of our time.
Saul Bellow paints portraits of characters like Rembrandt.
Augie is a man "in search of a worthwhile fate." After struggling at the bottom of Maslow's hierarchy of needs as a penniless youth in Chicago, he ultimately discovers that alignment with the "axial lines" of his existence is the secret to human fulfillment.
If, as Sartre says, life is the search for meaning, then Augie is the inspired champion of this great human quest.
Fortunately, Saul Bellow is as prolific as he is brilliant and there is much more to explore.
It took me almost forty years to read “Augie March.” I bought the book in the late '70s (cover price $1.95 and cover art worthy of Harold Robbins):This was shortly after Bellow won the Nobel Prize for Literature and after years of listening to my father (also Saul, also a first-generation American Jew, and roughly Bellow's contemporary) rave about the book.
He is drawn into the schemes of friends, mentors and lovers -- he refers to himself as a "recruit" -- but it's never long before he is ready to move on, always seeking what he is intended for."The Adventures of Augie March" was the Great American Novel of its time and maybe of ours as well.
He holds menial or exciting but temporary jobs, beds and falls in love with a series of women, tries his hand at thievery and academics, and ruminates on man’s nature.
While his stern-minded older brother Simon adapts himself to the world, marrying more or less for money and making swift, practical decisions about the family, Augie remains uncertain about his place, apparently ready “to dissolve in a bewilderment of choices.”I found this quintessentially American existential epic a pleasure to read, despite its length, roller-coaster pace and crowd of characters.
In addition to its subject – man’s often futile quest to find his place in a largely uncaring and deceptive world – being quite near and dear to my heart, I was captivated by Bellow’s rich prose.
I wanted to read all of it because of Goodreader Tony's wonderful review.
. And I was aware that, like another writer I admire but often cannot read, John Irving, because of his long, overwritten sentences--many so tangential that one loses the meaning--as demonstrated by this sentence I am currently writing, and I'll bet by now you forgot what I was talking about, lord knows, I have, but suffice it to say: I cannot read this book.
