https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170619.All_Around_the_Town
Lately, this "multiple personalities" thing has been overused. Anyway, a passable reading for bus stations, waiting rooms or any time you don't feel like using your brain too much. However, although I have some more books of Mary Higgins Clark, I think I will donate them all to Salvation Army. Not so bad, lately I was looking for space in my library. :)
Almost as bad as the other Higgins Clark I read. Characters were made of cardboard and female frailty seems to indicate their inner goodness. Too many "almosts" to make me roll my eyes (as in someone almost does something or sees something or gets something that would reveal the bad guy). All in all a weak and cheap book.
A little girl is kidnapped at age four.
Two years later, she is returned to her family.
When tragedy strikes during her college years, those horrible two years come back to her in the form of the alter personalities that protected her during that time.
She finds herself charged with murder, and her big sister fights to defend her in the hopeless case.This book is one of my favorites by Mary Higgins Clark.
She keeps you on the edge of your seat and turning the pages until you're finished.
As usual, there's a twist at the end, so don't even try to guess what happens!
I actually enjoyed it... Read it in 2 days.... It all came together in the end and It gripped me from the start...In all fairness its worth your time
Totally suspenseful! Another great one by Clark. You really can't go wrong with these novels. They are easy reads with twisting, exciting plots...especially this one.
A really capturing book. I read it within two or three days. I couldn't set it down easily. A really nice thriller.
اضطراب تعدد الشخصية الفصامي موضوع مستهلك في الروايات.لكن قليلًا ما يستخدم بشكل مقنع، مما يُحتسَب في صالح الكاتبة..
ليس القصد أن هذه الرواية قامت بتصوير تعدد الشخصيات بطريقة مثالية..
لكن ذلك قد يُعزى إلى قلّة الأبحاث العلمية المتوافرة في وقت إصدار هذه الرواية قبل ما يقارب العشرين سنة مضت..بعيدًا عن الإشكالات العلمية..
الطريقة التي تم اختيارها لسرد الأحداث "في رأيي الشخصي" لم تكن خطوةً موفقة من قِبل الكاتبة..فصول قصيرة جدًا تحكى من وجهة نظر شخصيات متعددة..
طريقةُ سردٍ أعجبتني في عددٍ ليس بقليل من الروايات في السابق.لكن وللأسف..
في هذه الرواية لم تتم كتابتها بإتقان مما أدّى لنتيجةٍ عكسية..
I became super obsessed with Mary Higgins Clark mysterys in 1994 -1995(Grade 7 ) Although probably not as obsessed as I used to be, MHC's books are still a warm hug on a cold day.
It's my mom's fault, we had previously read "I'll be seeing you "and as a result she went back to the bookstore and bought up whatever was there.
I absolutely loved the multiple viewpoints of many of the characters and sisters, Sarah and Laurie tie with Elizabeth and Leah(Weep No More My Lady") for my favorite "Clark sister duo." A real page turner!
I've read all of the MHC books that are out on paperback and I really enjoy them and they are a fast read. I did learn my lesson about making sure my husband was home when I read them b/c I got a little creeped out one night when I was home alone and the book I was reading had a character stalking her outside of her house. I just picked a few of my favorites for my bookshelf so it didn't get too crowded.
Q: Are either of you seeing a psychiatrists?SK: Yes, Laurie has been meeting with a psychiatrist, Dr. Carpenter, as well as Dr. Donnelly to help her with her trauma between our parents death, the knife dream, and to still help her cope with her kidnapping that happened 17 years ago.
I think that is the “we” that Laurie talks about in the dream, and in the end she dies and with it all her personalities.Q: What is your biggest weakness?
The best?SK: Laurie’s kidnapping was the worst thing that ever happened to me.
A very interesting book about Laurie who was kidnapped by Bic and Opal at age 3 and kept for several years. She was then left in front of a school to be returned to her parents. She is now 21 and a college student with many psychological problems. Involved in the story is a loving older sister who is trying to help her, multiple psychologists, a murder, and of course the high light is multiple personalities.
I liked this book and thought it was good but not great.
It might Ms. Clark's writing style, but I think it was the fact that much of the story is told from the perspective of the young woman's 4 year old personality.
It felt too simplistic.The themes of the book are the abuse/molestation and multiple personalities.
Also, I don't know anything about multiple personalities - if there even is such a thin - so I'm not a great judge on how well that was represented.
Laurie is sure that it was her fault, even though it wasn't, which brings out her multiple personalities.
Then one evening, Laurie's professor is killed and Laurie is the key suspect, even though she has no memory of that night.
Sarah now believes it is time to have Laurie meet with a psychiatrist and try to work through her multiple personalities.
To add to all of this, Laurie's kidnapped are waiting close by, so that Laurie doesn't reveal the truth about them.
I liked the aspect of the multiple personalities and found it interesting reading about them.
(view spoiler)[Of course Laurie didn't end up killing the professor (hide spoiler)]
I usually love to read thrillers to try to understand what's going on but with this book I understood the most important scoop about Laurie almost 100 pages before the end!
I did not understand who the killer was ( because, honestly, it could have been anyone), but when I arrived at the end of the book I was not surprised at all.What let me finish the book was the phsycology of Laurie.
But nothing happen except a girl seat on a man's lap.This is not deepThis is an easy to read book, nothing special.
آزار او به حدی بوده که باعث شده به بیماری چند شخصیتی دچار شود هرچند پس از بازگشت به خانواده نشانه ای از بیماری روحی در او دیده نمی شود اما پس از مرگ ناگهانی پدر و مادر بر اثر تصادفی که لاری دختری که حالا دانشحو شده است، خودش را مقصر آن میداند بیماری به شکل حاد برمیگردد و زندگی او و خواهرش را تحت تاثیر مستقیم قرار می دهد.
باعث می شود روانی کتاب به شدت تحت تاثیر قرار بگیرد اما در یک چهارم پایانی کتاب به طرز محسوسی این مشکلات کمتر شده و خواندن کتاب کار لذت بخش تری می شود.
BOOK CLUB (za svibanj 2014)Slabi krimić kojeg sam čitala za Book Club i kojeg da nije bio zadatak vjerojatno nikad ne bih ni uzela.
Muy entretenido, al estilo de todos los libros de Mary Higgins Clark. Las páginas vuelan solas, yo no pude soltarlo hasta que lo terminé.
This was a reread for me. I almost always enjoy Mary Higgins Clark books.
I can’t read trashy romance novels; not even in secret, but the presence of violence makes these books acceptable to my literary conscience.
Anyone who has read at least two Mary Higgins Clark novels knows that there is a formula.
Through the whole book the reader knows who the villains are.
Why would I watch the rest of the episode!Although I acknowledge Mary Higgins Clark’s prowess at producing entertaining, trashy suspense novels, I’d say this book was a disappointment.
Mary Higgins Clark novels were the equivalent of my security blanket, and I feel as though they’ve betrayed me.
I was completely taken in by this sometimes dark and always tense world, and this was a real page-turner for me.
A family is torn apart when their youngest daughter, Laurie, is stolen from the front yard.
New tragedy strikes, and it seems as if Laurie is destined to never realize her full potential, or real happiness.
Her older sister Sarah is filled with renewed determination that this won't be the truth, and we have to hope that she is right.It's a thriller, one that will make you guard your loved ones closely after realizing how easy it is for a family to be torn apart.
Adoro Mary Higgins Clark da sempre!Nel suo thriller del 1992, In giro per la città, gli effetti degli anni trascorsi dalla stesura sono evidenti.
Una nota insolita, ma che non compromette la storia che Mary Higgins Clark ci racconta.
Nonostante la lunghezza esigua, sono dei romanzi intensi, con una narrazione dal ritmo serrato e uno stile raffinato, che fa percepire le brutture, ma non si compromette né si lascia corrompere.Di In giro per la città mi ha colpita soprattutto il titolo, che trasmette l’idea di spensieratezza, mentre tutt’altre situazioni devono affrontare le due sorelle in pericolo in questo romanzo, Laurie e Sarah Kenyon.
In Clark’s books, the good guys always seem to live in 8,000 square foot houses that are perfectly decorated and landscaped, where they have always just roasted up a chicken and are serving it with a perfectly crisp salad and a glass of chianti while they are wearing designer cashmere or linen or silk.
If a Protestant shows up in a book, assume he’s the bad guy.
“Mutton dressed up like lamb,” sniffs the main character, Sarah.
Being the main character, I assume we’re supposed to like her.
E’ da un po’ che questo libro giace lì, negletto, in un angolo della mia scrivania.
Il problema è che, in effetti, su questo romanzo non ho proprio nulla da dire.
Se ancora procrastinassi la stesura di una sia pur raffazzonata recensione, rischierebbe di diventare polvere nella provvisoria, e anche alquanto importuna, collocazione in cui si trova.
Per non dire molto schifo.
Adesso il libro non è più sulla mia scrivania.
Il problema è però che ho comprato, assieme a questo, anche un altro romanzo della stessa autrice, che, in passato, non mi aveva del tutto convinta, ma neppure del tutto respinta.
One of my friends accidentally left one of Mary Higgins Clark's books in my apartment.
That is when I started reading Mary's novels.
That was when I started falling in love with this lady.
From then I started picking up her books every now and then.
The story flows as easily as water running downstream.
Especially in this novel, the bonding between the two sisters, Sarah and Laurie is really touching.
The way Sarah struggles to save her sister is exemplary.
I strongly recommend my fellow readers to run through this book and indulge in the pleasure of seeing a happy ending.
Happy reading!!!
This books deals alot with Psychology, it envolves a girl named Laurie who was kidnapped when she was a child and held by her kidnappers for two years finally they let her go thinking that the cops are getting to close.
Then years later she accused of killing one of her collage professers, but her older sister believes her when she says she is innocent and decides to send Laurie to see a therapist to see if he can help her.
Meanwhile Laurie's kidnappers have decided they aren't thru with her just yet.
This was a riveting story of the after affects of childhood trauma and abuse.
It was a chilling reminder of how untreated trauma can affect someone dramatically while they seem to have a normal life.It was also, in a way, a comedy of errors, as people deliberately didn't pass on comments (I'm not a gossip, says one old lady) or figure something isn't important so it is ignored.
In some instances its just plain lack of attention to detail, but it gets our young heroine arrested and charged with murder.
this book has a fabulous plot.........the story never gets boring,the main character laurie is very captivating,her multiple personalities arise from her sorrows and pains of the past,which is is horrible and scary as she was abducted at a tender age of all but two years......now she is grown up a high schooler but it still hauts her.the story is so captivating it will leave you breathless with shock at times and sometimes makes you cry as her story unfolds......thos stroy will stay in peoples mind for a long time(atleast it did in mine)a true treat for people who love thrillers
It was great! As always Mary Higgins Clark never disappoints me! A great mystery writer who holds your total attention without excess embellishments.The story again had an exciting twist - with good characters . It's refreshing to see the good guy win and to close the book with a smile.
The subject mattter of this book was disturbing. It was difficult to read about a 3 year old child being sexually abused and being subjected to the grown woman living through a nightmare of memeories. I skipped pages to avoid the imagages and concentrated more on Sandra and her love interest. Not a great book and I am a huge fan of the this author. I would not recommend this book to anybody!
Must say, this book suprised me. It's easy to read but still captivating. Mary Higgins Clarks exploration of human psyche through Laurie's multiple personalities disorder was amazing for me. Story itself is fluent and understandable.
