https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/704043.Kiss_of_Midnight
This is the first book in Lara Adrian's Black Dagger Bro- oops, I mean Midnight Breed series.The series is about a group of huge, badass (but good) vampires who live together in a compound and fight evil vampires in order to protect their really old fashioned, hoity toity race.
Sorry.Yes, this series is a pretty blatant rip off of Ward's wildly popular Black Dagger Brotherhood series.
By the time I finished it, I started to think, "Wow. Maybe this series is actually better than BDB!" (After reading a couple more, I've decided it's not, but it's still good.)Adrian's books don't quite have the same depth, edge or daring as Ward's.
4 Hot and Cold Stars So this is my second time reading Kiss of Midnight.
The first time was like back in 2014 I think so I thought it was time for a reread and catch up on the new books in the series.
The 1st time I read Kiss of Midnight I gave it 5 stars but I am only giving it 4 this time around.
See even thought it's still a damn good read, there were a few things that bugged me this time around that didn't really bug me back then.
Mainly the thing that really bugged me was how hot and cold L
Mainly the thing that really bugged me was how hot and cold Lucan would be with Gabrielle.
I wanted him to be all alpha and be like MINE period not "I'm never getting mated" shit.
He had lost a lot in his long life, including family, and he had a ton of responsibility.
When she wanted Lucan she told him, When she loved him she told him, and when he disrespected her and acted like all they would be was lovers, she left him.
Lucan and Gabrielle had tons of hot passion.
The hero of the first novel is Lucan the Leader aka Emo Vampenis.
There was a big betrayal scene towards the end but it lasted like half a page before cutting back to Emo Vamp & his slutty breedmate.
I probably will read the 2nd novel,Kiss of Crimson because I do see a potential for kickassness in Adrian's writing.On a side note, I love (& by love I mean laugh at in a snarky way) how one of the numerous sex scenes between Emo Vampenis & Slutty Breedmate had the hero "screaming out harsh words".
This is one way to get people to read your book
Yes, it’s a blatant rip off of the Black Dagger Brotherhood, and while reading it I felt like I was cheating on my beloved Brothers, but I had been warned about that beforehand and because I was prepared for it, it probably didn’t bother me as much as it would of if I was going in blind.
I really liked the bad guys, or ‘Rogues’, who were chillingly evil, and I love the twist on where that part of the story is going to go.
There are some very interesting characters there and I already know I’m going to love these boys - I can’t wait to get to their stories.
One thing that bothered me was the casual indifference about humans being killed by the Rogues.
The Breed warriors did protect humans, and that was clear, but the ones that died in this book didn't seem overly mourned by the warriors.
Perhaps this due to many, many years of seeing humans dying and savagely killed by the Rogues.
Lucan is a hard man (vampire), who doesn't open his heart.
I am curious about the warriors that fight alongside Lucan, and I can't wait to read their stories.
De fácil lectura y bastante entretenido, aunque algo predecible, me llama mucho la atención lo que me recuerdan estos guerreros liderados por Lucan a los de la Hermandad de la Daga Negra (no me extraña que en los agradecimientos cite a Jessica Bird aka JR Ward), una serie que para mí por ahora es bastante superior. Lo del origen de los vampiros me ha dejado loca, así como alguna que otra cosa a la que debería dar explicación más adelante. Continuaré con la saga.#retointimo2018#Campañaromantica: romance de ciencia ficción
I also read a few reviews about this book, mostly good but the one thing that kept coming up was how similar it is the JR WARD’s BDB series.
When they meet, both feel an instant powerful connection.-this book did remind me of JR WARD’s DARK LOVER – Lucan is a lot like Wrath….both are dark, sensual and strong ancient warriors dedicated to protecting his people.
Wonder if he will appear in the next books????-Lots of violent scenes….the fights between the Warriors and the Rogues are brutal, the feeding scenes…bloody and ugly…even when we see Lucan feeding….not surprising that Gabrielle felt scared and disturbed when she first saw Lucan drinking blood from a human.-Liked the intensity of Lucan and Gabrielle’s relationship.
Dude finally needs to protect chick because the bad guy wants something from her.
(Note: I’m still at the beginning of the book and I didn’t read any summaries)I guess I’ve just defined the PNR genre, haven’t I?I don’t want to be quick to judge but most of the PNR series I’ve read so far had a not-so-cool start.
I was really bored with the story, the characters were annoying and dull, no great villains and the plot was something I’ve read many times before.I’m trying to compare the good thing with the bad ones regarding the book.
Vamp Leader Dude acts like an ass to Saint Chick.
It wasn't bad but I got nothing out of it, the story wasn't particularly different or clever and the characters were reincarnations of a thousand others that have graced the urban fantasy scene.Also, as much as I am intrigued by characters with dark pasts of abuse and whatever else, I find that paranormal romance and/or urban fantasy books are much better suited with a spunky, sarcastic heroine like Georgina Kincaid from Succubus Blues, Mac from Darkfever and Cat Crawfield from Halfway to the Grave.
4 1/2 "Scarlet Kiss 💋" Stars!
I LOVED this book!
Dark and sensual.
A tiny bit scary (but I'm a scaredy cat, so...).
Great world building.
Lucas was broody and stubborn, but sexy and protective.
I loved them both.
This series is going to be so addictive for me.
There are at least two Order Warriors whos books I cannot wait to read already.
I think the overall series plot is going to be good too.
I can't believe I waited so long to start this series.
Excited to see what's to come in this dark, sexy world.
Happy reading!
If you like Black Dagger Brotherhood, have I got the book for you! This one....Yeah, you probably figured that out.The similarities are eerie. Well, maybe not eerie, but it's almost Halloween so I think everything is eerie right now. My dog's capacity for shedding every season of the year is eerie. So is my capacity for eating chocolate... mmmm, Halloween = candy.So, we have a race of vampires, and the focus is on this small group of warriors. They are a close group - a  brotherhood  if you will
If you like Black Dagger Brotherhood, have I got the book for you!
Don't forget our sandwich making abilities...The biggest difference in this book is the bad guys.
Way to ruin the beautiful aroma of new life, JR Ward!!Oh, and the guys wear boots, but don't call them shit-kickers, and they live in a mansion, but don't call it a manse, and one of them dies in the first book, and one of them has visions while another is so cold-hearted that they don't quite trust him.Is it crazy to see the eeriness of the similarities?Whoa!
3,5 ★ #ReroíntimoEsta es la tercera serie de vampiros que leo y esta en concreto me recuerda mucho a la serie de de los vampiros de la J.R Ward, tiene muchas similitudes en común. No ha estado nada mal, me ha gustado bastante, es entretenida y seguramente leeré el resto.
4.5 ☆Como no soy mucho de fantasía, distopía y lo paranormal en general, nunca pensé que este libro podría gustarme tanto.Y en cambio, ha sido una grata sorpresa porque lo he disfrutado muchísimo. Intentaré seguir con la serie en cuanto pueda y conocer al resto de vampiritos 😍
At the risk of been torn to shreds by the BDB fan's, I much preferred this book.
I will definitely be continuing on with this series.There are definite similarities between this & BDB without a doubt.
(she even called her man her "dark lover" at one stage!)But if like me you hated the silly names, despised the Lessers and thought the slang & carry on of the brothers was a bit cringey then this is the series for you.
An alpha male, a strong female, a bit of action, and lots of other Hot alpha's stories to look forward to.
Se queda con las mismas 4 estrellitas después de la relectura.Qué ganas tenía de releer estos libros, me encantan estos otros vampiritos, sus tatuajes cambia colores son lo más, el orígen de su raza una novedad y la trama me gusta mucho también, es muy adictiva y eso que en este libro solo se ve la punta del iceberg. Recuerdo que me tuvieron muy enganchada y los leía como caramelos, esta vez voy a ir de forma más pausada.#RetoÍntimo►Reseña completa en Mi Rinconín de Lectura◄

Lucan is an ancient (like 900 years) Breed Warrior, a vampire who hunts down vampires that have gone rogue and are wantonly killing humans.
He's *this close* to losing it and giving into bloodlust.Oh, yeah, the vampires are all descended from The Ancients, these beings from outer space.
I mean, it's an ok plot device: have a race that needs to feed on humans fall to earth and start a vampiric breed, but...
Gen One vampires like Lucan, who are more than 900 years old, how did they *know* that their father was from another world?
For me, though, the reasons I don’t care for the genre shined through, spoiling the better possibilities the book contained.Gabrielle and Lucian are struck by instalove and instalust to a degree – it’s one of those ‘ in the stars ‘ things.
But unlike the Carpathian novels, here they can dissever the relationship, they can survive the loss of a fallen mate, and they can choose the mate by their own will.Lucian fought tooth and nails not to succumb to Gabrielle – he is one of the ancient warriors who wants to keep dedicating his life, his focus, on his mission to rid the world of the dreaded vampires who have turned and taint his kind.
No estuvo mal. Algunos momentos un poco tedioso pero el último 10% estuvo lleno de acción e intriga. Es un libro muy introductorio. Me sigue chocando un poco la onda extraterrestre de los vampiros pero supongo que es el mundo que la autora quiso crear. Me gustaron los personajes secundarios en especial Rio y Tegan.Los protagonistas han estado bien pero tampoco son wow. Un libro pasable y entretenido. Lo dejé en el 38% pero le di otra oportunidad.El principio es muy lento, pero después mejora considerablemente.
Sure, it had its downsides, but I thought it was a good start to a series.I didn't think that this was too much like BDB.
That being said, I think that it could have been a bit shorter, especially towards the end when I felt like there didn't need to be so much...other stuff?
Although I wanted to slap Gabrielle silly at the end of the book when she left the compound at the end of the book.All in all, I liked this series more than I thought I was going to.
She is supposed to be a professional photographer of some local acclaim (local being Boston, by the way, so we aren't talking small potatoes), however, when the hero goes into her home pretending to be a detective he makes this stunning revelation about her photographs: "Your picture are full of passion .
It is her job to create a composition and take these photos, and she hasn't NOTICED that she chooses to create compositions without people in them?
No. If she were a professional photographer, that would have been a choice.So now I have no respect for the heroine, and I'm just not sure I can continue with this book.
This review was originally posted on Addicted To Romance   Summary   Gabrielle Maxwell, is a photographer of gothic and abandoned buildings and is starting to increase in popularity. She is not used to the attention. On a night of celebration, she and her friends go to an infamous club that is becoming all the rage. From the first moment she enters, she feels uncomfortable and has an uneasy feeling. Her friends seem to be enjoying it all, but all Gabrielle can think about is the peace and quiet
But Lucan fights along side the rest of his warriors to bring an end to the rogues who kill without thought.
Lucan is drawn to Gabrielle, she is different than most human women, and despite the danger that surrounds them....even though he doesn't deserve it, he needs her and wants her as his mate.
Kiss At Midnight is the first in the series and the first book I have read from this author.
Kiss Of Midnight is a stimulating story of sensual desire, enigmatic characters, and a riveting plot!
Kiss of Midnight is the first book I've read by Lara Adrian.
I found that the first book of the Midnight Breed series was interesting.
I was interested in knowing what would happen to Lucan and Gabby but it seemed to take a long time for things to really heat up.
BUT the things that happen within those last 100 pages truly blew me away.
With eight books already released and more to come, I'm going to be spending less time in the real world and more time in Lara Adrian's world.
Also, I am fascinated by Adrian's ability to write violent scenes.
En esta segunda relectura le doy 4*.
Adoro a Lucan más que a ninguno, es mi debilidad.En realidad son 3,5 estrellas.
El mundo de los vampiros siempre me ha apasionado y este libro me lo confirma, si bien la historia hacia el final se hace predecible, la intensidad vampírica de Lucan me ha cautivado.
Es un líder y un guerrero pero a pesar de ello, su lado tierno y humano sale a la luz en más de una ocasión.La mezcla de acción, romance, pasión y vampiros intensos me puede, qué le voy a hacer.
Voy a ir buscando la segunda entrega...
Overall book rating: 5 (Cause I’m not changing my original rating)Audio Book: Hillary Huber – 4.5 Well done Woman stars!Book Cover: 2.5Second Time AroundSo I’m thinking I should try some re-reads again.
Lucan Thorne can never be wrong.
I read this the first time when my imagination was running wild in 2013 and I couldn’t get enough of the Order.
How can you not just want to love them??
So this time around, I still love them.
Lucan can knock on my door any given day.
;-)This was such a pleasant re-read.Hillary Huber – YOU ROCKED THIS AUDIO!!
I LOVE it.
What I do know is that I first read this book around the time I was obsessed with the Black Dagger Brotherhood by J.R. Ward.
It's too similar and too different all at the same time.You have a band of vampire warriors, living together in a compound, fighting their enemies night after night...You have the damaged one, the one (or a few actually) in a loving relationship, the smart-ass, the leader - who is probably the closest thing to royalty they recognize.
This first book in the Midnight Breed series had a promising premise, but Adrian really missed the mark.
I have a feeling that she was trying to live up to the hype of JR Ward's phenomenal Brotherhood vampire series, but she really falls short.
I would also say she was trying to appeal to those fans and perhaps give an overall "Thank You" to Ward, but there are too many similarities and that's where it ends.
This vampire Breeds try to exterminate their own known as Rogues after they are overcome with bloodlust for humans even though our hero and his friends go after humans themselves for nourishment.
Opening Line:"Her baby wouldn't stop crying."So this was a reread for me, if I was reading it now for the first time I would give it four stars however I remember being blown away the first time I read it, (until Ward rocked my world that is) so I'll leave it at 5 Still a good paranormal but I had a tough time differentiating between this and the BDB, the similarities are just too glaring.
Its very strange to me that Kiss Of Midnight and Dark Lover both came out around the same time and are so, so similar.
#RetoIntimo5me ha gustado más que la primera vez que lo leí. Ay Lucan que lo das todo! ¿Confirmo que me encanta esta saga? CONFIRMO3,5lo he leído por recomendación de mi querida Noe Mysticnox (qué ratos más buenos de watts nos ha dado Lucan) y me enganchó desde el principio. Lucan es intenso y me ha tenido enganchada esperando a ver si....No había leído nada de Lara Adrian y me ha gustado este mundo vampírico, creo que voy a ir a por el segundo.Noe, vamos juntas a por el de Dante, no?
