https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60720.The_Other_America
The book, entitled “The Other America: Poverty in the United States”, shocked the rather small audience that actually read the book with the premise that nearly one-fourth of the United States population was living at or below the poverty line.It was shocking to the reading audience of the time because a national dialogue about poverty did not even exist, outside academic circles of political scientists and social scientists who actually studied poverty issues.
While some of the demographics have changed in fifty years, the basic make-up of these groups haven't changed that much.It is probably unfair to say that no progress has been made on the issue of poverty.
Entering Grinnell College with a year's credit already accumulated in high school, I enrolled in courses that were actually interesting, figuring requirements were secondary.
A whole host of such classes were offered under the rubric of Social Science as special topics.
The first I took was one on the welfare system of the U.S.A. taught by a former social worker who had just come to our school.If the Welfare class had a central text, it was Harrington's The Other America.
But perhaps it was because I knew of Harrington from the Socialist Party that the book seemed so central.
One quote pretty much sums up the theme of this book...
"America has the best dressed poverty in the World." Americans often don't think about poverty.
They see the occasional bum on a street corner and assume that he must be a drunk or otherwise irresponsible.
They never bother to think about the systematic nature of poverty and the causes of it.
Nor do they think about the fact that the gap between the rich and poor is growing and more Americans are going into poverty than coming out.Harrington dispells many of these American povery myths with clear research, personal stories and eloquent prose.
This book was truly eye-opening to the poverty related problems present in our society.
This book provided powerful insight in the present problems, their cause, and how they can be fixed, which highlighted how simple a plan can seem on paper, yet implementing that plan into society requires a concern for the culture in the impoverished area.
The reason this book only receives four stars is because they sometimes left problems open-ended without providing an adequate solution or dismissing issues with an over-simplified response.
Overall, I highly recommend this book to whoever is interested in learning about one of the most ignored societies today.
Michael Harrington's magnum opus on poverty in the United States says right on the cover that it is "the book that sparked the War on Poverty." And it did.
Kennedy gave this book to his advisors and green-lighted a plan to eradicate poverty in America three days before he was killed.
Lyndon Johnson referenced this book when he made the War of Poverty a reality.
How long shall we ignore this underdeveloped nation in our midst?
How long shall we look the other way while our fellow human beings suffer?
The Other America is defined by hopeless and pessismism, and by not seeing it, we ensure that the cycle of poverty will be repeated in a new generation.
Harrington is hopeful in his book that when Americans become aware of poverty, they will be full of moral outrage and work to eradicate it.
Well, that was 1962, and I don't know how long we have to wait to judge that that theory has been tested and shown to be deficient.
How long will the poor have to wait for their suffering to be recognized, Harrington asks at the end of the book.
I read this book in college more than 40 years ago.
Harrington's exposure of poverty in Appalachia and other parts of the U.S was a stark revelation in the early 1960's.
This book significantly influenced the anti poverty programs later in the decade.
Ironically, Harrington at the time was the head of the United States Socialist Party.Thinking about the Other America inspired me many times during a 37 year career with the U.S. Department of Labor.
I plan to include this book and its influence on my career during an upcoming retirement luncheon.A good portion of this book is available at http://books.google.com/books?id=sZDg...
One would think that this book is would be outdated but its not. Even though it first published in 1968 it is very relevant to the present.
But the words are just as apt as they were when the book was published.He was a supporter of universal health care saying, “A comprehensive medical program, guaranteeing decent care to every American, would actually reduce the cost of caring for the aged.” He believed that if people had good health care in their early decades, they would have fewer problems as they aged.
Nixon followed Johnson into the White House and kept most of these programs running.I am looking forward to reading The Other American: The Untold Life of Michael Harrington and hopefully getting an idea about his views during the Great Society and War on Poverty era.
Read it in college. So long ago, I can't comment.
This book is an intellectually dishonest work of exploitation.
Harrington is a man with heart, a 'democratic socialist' who was writing originally during the prosperity of the early 1960s which, in many ways, was much more prosperous than today but at the same time when deep poverty was holding in rural parts of the US and some urban areas too, including parts of Appalachia that had no running water or regular electricity.
But it has dated considerably and in some ways is an elitist view that is characteristic of much of the top-down social activism of the time, including the later War on Poverty and the Great Society of Lyndon Johnson.
One of the most influential nonfiction books of the twentieth century.
Harrington argues that an economic underclass of forty to fifty million poor Americans is so excluded from America's affluent society as to constitute “a separate culture, another nation, with its own way of life.” That the poor are "not simply neglected and forgotten.
He calls for a broad program of remedial action, a "comprehensive assault on poverty." “Society must help them before they can help themselves.” A call to action on a national scale, it resulted in the War on Poverty of the sixties, maybe even Medicare and Medicaid.
Sad to say, this book is not outdated today.
It took me a long time to get thru this book, and even more to review it here--the thing is, the writing isn't old-fashioned or dodgy but for a progressive, bleeding-heart liberal like me--even as an expat in Europe--the book's contents got way, way too depressing.
Because so little has changed?
Maybe, maybe not.
Maybe the worst is that A LOT has changed, actually, from the 50s and early 60s days of this book, only barring certain social transformations (women, gays) politically most of the changes are not for the better and 'the other America' is alive and well and kicking vehemently today.
The discovery that there were still large pockets of poverty in the United States in the early 1960s supposedly came as a shock to the American people - that is, to those of them that lived in the suburbs - and led semi-directly to the War on Poverty, which was won (to a point) by the elderly. Incidentally, the second book that appeared when I searched for this volume on Goodreads was Mary Rowlandson's captivity narrative. One day I will understand the connection between the two books, but today is not the day.
I read the 1962 / 1969 edition which only had 191 pages. Very enlightening. Most of it fits with today as well. There is one point towards the end of the book(pg 164) which definitely sounds like now. He talks about the recession of Spring 1961. Even though the business indicators were showing we were improving, unemployment still remained high.Don't go by what you currently know. Read up on the past. It is a good indicator as to how we progressed / where we are headed.
"For until these facts shame us, until they stir us to action, the other America will continue to exist, a monstrous example of needless suffering in the most advanced society in the world."And so it goes.
One phrase in particular has been the basis for the argument we've been listening to for decades, "culture of poverty".
Harrington's choice of the phrase "culture of poverty" was taken out of context by conservative politicians hoping to gain some credibility in their fight against social welfare programs.
Poverty is still the greatest economic depressor we are fighting against.
This book is brilliant for many reasons but chiefly among them is this, Harrington treats the folks experiencing life's harshest realities as regular people who are experiencing poverty, not poor people.
I read this alongside The Dream and the Nightmare by Myron Magnet as a part of a project in comparing and contrasting the different perspectives on poverty and the underclass.
This book propels a certain school of thought that I just cannot get on board with.
Overall way too anecdotal, and the general leftist agenda is a rather miserable barrier informing every detail of the book.
It was difficult to plow through this dreary read.
Unfortunately, still incredibly relevant to the culture of poverty and disparity of wealth in the US today, though written with stats from the 1950s and '60s."The American economy, the American society, the American unconscious are all racist." (72)"So prejudice becomes self-justifying. It creates miserable conditions and then cites them as a rationale for inaction and complacency." (79)"...the poor and persistently penalized for the original sin of poverty." (106)
Oh damn, oh damn, oh damn. I thought it would be bad. Harrington showed us that life in the US was no picnic and reading it now, many decades after publishing, it has not gotten much better. People are dying for lack of medical care while the ultra-rich are getting tax breakes.
This was a interesting read. The book was written in the early 60's so the statistics are off compared to where we are now in 2018. Or are they? To be honest, much of what he spoke about still felt applicable to me 50+ years later.
On my 1964 reading list before my first year at Smith College, this book stays with me to this day.
A sociological and economic discourse on poverty in America. Reads like a textbook.
I like Harrington's straightforward but compassionate approach to describing the plight of the poor. Also a very relevant book for understanding today's America! While reading it, I often forgot that it's a book written over 50 year ago, especially during the chapter describing the rural poor.
there are enough poor people in the United States to constitute a subculture of misery, but not enough of them to challenge the conscience and the imagination of the nation." "At precisely that moment in history where for the first time a people have the material ability to end poverty, they lack the will to do so.
The consciences of the well-off are the victims of affluence; the lives of the poor are the victims of a physical and spiritual misery." "It is a noble sentiment to argue that private moral responsibility expressing itself through charitable contributions should be the main instrument of attacking poverty.
Michael Harrington's "The Other America" details the long standing issue of poverty and how it manifests itself in the lives of the urban and rural poor mainly during the 1940's, 1950's, and 1960's.
Sadly, much of what's written continues to this very day.
And yet we continue to allocate our countries resources in ways that perpetuate the culture of poverty.
What really saddens me is that our country has the resources available to relieve this human misfortune.
These options will only further the separation between contributing individuals and those living in poverty.
How long will this last?
My late father owned the original paperback edition which I had to glue back together after reading, and of it, he said, the reason the Great Society (a number of social welfare programs on a national scale) was instituted in the 1960s was not because the monetary and political elites all of a sudden decided that they liked the lower classes, but that so many were suffering from the physical effects of extreme poverty and disease that they were failing their draft physicals as the Vietnam War ramped up and expanded.
This book is amazingly current, given that it was written 50 years ago. The same problems existed then as now; jobs were lost due to factory closings, "braceros" (illegal Mexican immigrants) were blamed for lowering wages of migrant workers, "average" Americans were blind to poverty, people who owned houses or land had trouble migrating to areas with better jobs, etc. I think I've read all these points recently in the New York Times or other publications. I'm only on page 57, so have a way to go.
Published originally in 1959, this book was a call to arms regarding this country's policies regarding the poor and poverty in general. I found the tone of the book to be interesting - I don't know that righteous indignation plays well today. And sadly, many of the fears outlined in the book have indeed come to bear, but there has been some progress. Unless there is a serious focus on poverty at all levels of government and more importantly, society, I fear we aren't going to end it once and for all.
