https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31538635-short-stories-from-hogwarts-of-heroism-hardship-and-dangerous-hobbies
Finally, the extra writings by our QUEEN OF MAGIC collected in a professional edited ebook.And in this one dwell the brave at heart.Stories about heroism and hardship. From McGonagall’s grief to Lupin’s lifelong beastly affliction..To the crazy hobbies of Sybill Trelawney & Silvanus Kettleburn. If there’s one thing these stories prove, it’s that heroism comes in all shapes, sizes and varieties – whether it’s Remus Lupin giving his life to save the wizarding world or Silvanus Kettleburn hurli
but it was fun nonetheless..And not long since Rowling can't think much of her pre-Hogwarts life..And the editing was perfect to connect her story into this book, by the converse connection between her and McGonagallAnd followed by again by a writing on "Naming Seer" it's not much but reminded me with this funny scene..
Though I wish it all become one Huge "Hardcover book- The Long waited encyclopedia" This one mostly for the 'Lion House' if you know what I mean....from the description;This volume offers a glimpse into stories of heroism, hardship and dangerous..It will focus on two of the Harry Potter stories’ most courageous and iconic characters: Minerva McGonagall and Remus Lupin.
(B) 75% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Keying on stigmas of intermarriage and disease, it draws profiles in point form, like Pensieves of memories narrated.

Got deeper in Harry Potter’s world here! This is the first ebook (in a series of three, so far) collecting short stories written by J.K. Rowling for the Pottermore website.In this first book, you’ll get seven short stories focused in the themes of heroism against great menaces, hardship in challenging lives and dangerous hobbies in a world full of real magic.Thanks to these wonderful narratives, you’ll get to know beyond of what you may got in the original Harry Potter’s book series, various un
This is the first ebook (in a series of three, so far) collecting short stories written by J.K. Rowling for the Pottermore website.In this first book, you’ll get seven short stories focused in the themes of heroism against great menaces, hardship in challenging lives and dangerous hobbies in a world full of real magic.Thanks to these wonderful narratives, you’ll get to know beyond of what you may got in the original Harry Potter’s book series, various unforgettable characters (and even one that you may need a moment to remember!).Minerva McGonagall, Remus Lupin and Sybill Trelawney, all three have key relevant roles in the magical saga of Harry Potter, and certainly you got to know them fair well, but in this book, you’ll get access to their past lives, before the beginning of Harry Potter’s saga, and if you read carefully, with attention, you’ll be able to deduce important details of other mentioned related characters.Oh, you’ll have Silvanus Kettleburn too!
I needed a pick me up after the last couple books I've read and this was perfect!It gave me all the feels!!It was nice to learn more about Professor McGonagall and Lupin.Really short but enjoyable! It's also my favorite of the three e books!
J.K. Rowling gives us a more in-depth look, a mini-history if you will, of a few of the beloved characters from the Harry Potter stories. Professor Minerva McGonagal steals the show in this group. This phenomenal world created by Rowling is loved by millions across the globe and it’s never tiresome reading about it. Obviously a must read for all Harry Potter fans. This is the first volume of a 3 volume series.
“To be a hero; sometimes, all it takes is having your heart in the right place.”  I really enjoyed this book. OMG ! I haven't expected before that this book will remind so much of the Harry Potter series. Rowling, how could you do this to me ? You made me miss my childhood so damn much it hurt with this excruciatingly short book. I want more of it. I REALLY want to know about other characters, such as Sirius Black, Albus Dumbledore and notorious Gellert Grindelwald.This book psyched me up for t
I haven't expected before that this book will remind so much of the Harry Potter series.
You made me miss my childhood so damn much it hurt with this excruciatingly short book.
I REALLY want to know about other characters, such as Sirius Black, Albus Dumbledore and notorious Gellert Grindelwald.This book psyched me up for the coming Fantastic Beasts movie.
You have no idea how much I miss her that I was watching Downton Abbey and thought, for a second, that she was still the professor from Hogwart.
For the rest of this book, it's so amazing and genuinely a work of J.K. Rowling, not like Harry Potter and the Cursed Child.
Lupin is one of my absolute favorite characters, so I loved this look into his life.
BUT I still loved all of these short stories.
I'm still not too sure about it, though).I did think it was clever how JK Rowling is using this page time to subtly address some fan criticism throughout the years (like how Lupin didn't necessarily stop James & Sirius from bullying Snape).
She gives a lot more insight into some beloved characters here but keeps it all in a lighthearted, brief format that makes it a really fast read.

(Πολύ αντικειμενική) Remus Lupin :'-(
Another nostalgia read, but unlike the ones that came before it, it's a bit more simple than the rest.So what is it? Short stories about our favorite side characters? Minerva, Moony?Well, sadly, no. These are character sketches. Mini-bios. You might learn some things about the characters that you may not have known, and that may be a given, but there's no real story involved. Just character sketches and their places in HP's life. Nice to have, but not especially fantastic.
:')
As is the case with many authors, J.K. Rowling had much more information about many characters than she could place in the seven books.
This ebook contains 4 chapters:1) Minerva McGonagall / Animagi2) Remus Lupin / Werewolves3) Sybill Trelawney / Naming Seers4) Silvanus KettleburnSince Minerva McGonagall is my favourite character in the book, this was an instant win for me.
Remus Lupin was definitely the most emotional chapter since the character went through so much.
To see the connectedness of all (which was already very strongly shown in the novels), was a true delight because it proves that Rowling took her time to actually create a world.Trelawney has always been one of those characters I could have lived without.
“After all, you don’t have to be a sword-wielding Gryffindor to be a hero; sometimes, all it takes is having your heart in the right place.” Short Stories From Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardships and Dangerous Hobbies was a set of informative tales about characters we know and love from Hogwarts. The four characters who's tales were told in this particular novella where Minerva McGonagall, Remus Lupin, Sybill Trelawney, and Silvanus Ketteburn - all professors, or once professors - at Hogwarts. The t
Short Stories From Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardships and Dangerous Hobbies was a set of informative tales about characters we know and love from Hogwarts.
The four characters who's tales were told in this particular novella where Minerva McGonagall, Remus Lupin, Sybill Trelawney, and Silvanus Ketteburn - all professors, or once professors - at Hogwarts.
Getting the greater insight into why he was (view spoiler)[a werewolf (hide spoiler)], his relationship and his friendship with Sirius, Peter and James made me yearn for that Mauraders book that JK needs to have started writing like yesterday.Sybill Trelawney 
بعد از خوندن فرزند نفرین شده و راهنمای ناکامل و نامعتبر هاگوارتز، انتظار زیادی از این کتاب نداشتم، اما خوشبختانه غافلگیر شدم. خیلی دلم برای پروفسور مک گونگال و ریموس لوپین تنگ شده بود و از خوندن زندگی نامه هاشون، گرچه کوتاه بود، واقعا لذت بردم. واقعا عالی :)خوشحالم امسالم رو با این کتاب شروع کردم!
Primero: son fan de Harry Potter y me ha encantado volver a leer sobre su mundo; en este caso, sobre tres de sus profesores. Segundo: sólo le he puesto 3 estrellas porque no es ningún relato, son apuntes sobre la vida de esos personajes.
First thing I've loved by Rowling since the Harry Potter series. Just really a joy to read all this backstory.Yes, yes, yes, I know you can get this for free on the Pottermore site, but 1. I like books. 2. I don't like reading things online. 3. I like financially compensating authors whom I love with my money (yes, even the mega-selling ones).
From an 18-year old Minerva McGonagall in love to the loneliness of Remus Lupins' childhood, we get a teasing peek at the the real lives of some of our favorite witches and wizards. The first two chapters(which make up a majority of the book) were entertaining, but the last ones felt like a mere formality to fill up pages with info dumping. It succeeded in making me nostalgic, so 3.5 stars.JKRs thoughts on each of these characters after the actual chapters were surprisingly thought-provoking.(especially Lupins'-you'll know what I mean when you read it for yourself)
And in this way, J.K.Rowling brings me back again to Hogwarts!What an exciting read it was.Minerva and Lupin did everything to give me a nostalgic feeling.I must read more from the series.
J.K Rowling just keeps on slaying us after all these years.
GRYFFINDOR – HEADMISTRESS – KIND – ANIMAGUS – MINERVA MCGONAGALL She certainly isn’t open book, being always the mysterious one.
He fought both the battles happened at Hogwarts being on the Order of Phoenix, made great friends like Sirius Black, James Potter, and Peter Pettigrew, co-creator of Marauder’s Map and ultimately fell in love with the cutest – Nymphadora Tonks.
4. HUFFLEPUFF – RECKLESS – ALWAYS WITH MAGICAL CREATURES - SILVANUS KETTLEBURNHe was the Prof.
After all, you don’t have to be a sword-wielding Gryffindor to be a hero; sometimes, all it takes is loving heart in the right place.
"Remus Lupin was posthumously awarded the Order of Merlin, First Class, the first werewolfever to be accorded this honour. The example of his life and death did much to lift the stigma onwerewolves. He was never forgotten by anyone who knew him: a brave, kind man who did the best hecould in very difficult circumstances and who helped many more than he ever realised."  This alone deserves five stars. Lupin is one of my absolute favourite characters, and this legit made me cry.
Actual Rating: 5 GLITTERING STARS!Absolutely love it! Remus Lupin is my numero uno. full review to come for this whole series! ————————————————————————We have a book about the badass McGonagall but I was sold when I see Remus Lupin's name. So freaking happy that we got to read about the struggles & hardships he faced in his life. That man deserve everything good in this world. So, let's see my fancast for this amazing man.Movie Remus:Young Remus (Marauders Era):Cosplay Remus:Fanart Remus: WO
Actual Rating: 5 GLITTERING STARS!Absolutely love it! Remus Lupin is my numero uno.
  full review to come for this whole series!
————————————————————————We have a book about the badass McGonagall but I was sold when I see Remus Lupin's name. So freaking happy that we got to read about the struggles & hardships he faced in his life. That man deserve everything good in this world. So, let's see my fancast for this amazing man.Movie Remus:Young Remus (Marauders Era):Cosplay Remus:Fanart Remus:
  WOW I GOT SO MANY REMUS FEELS RIGHT NOW OMGI LOVE HIM SO MUCH!
همیشه پروفسور مکگونگال برام یه شخصیت خاصی داشت. یه اباهت خاص. از اون استادایی بود که نه میشد دوستش نداشت و نه میشد باهاش خیلی صمیمی شد. در عین مهربونیش، یه مرز واضحی با دانشآموزانش داشت. خوندن داستان زندگینامهاش برام جالب بود. ضمن اینکه ضمیمه مربوط به جانورنمایی که رولینگ نوشته بود هم خیلی چیزها رو برام روشن کرد.لوپین یکی شخصیت های دلنشین مجموعه هری پاتر برای من بود. مرگش توی داستان واقعا ناراحتم کرد و خوندن زندگینامهاش من رو، مثل رولینگ، دوباره غمناک کرد. با اینکه خیلی از مواردی که اینجا در مور
ضمن اینکه ضمیمه مربوط به جانورنمایی که رولینگ نوشته بود هم خیلی چیزها رو برام روشن کرد.لوپین یکی شخصیت های دلنشین مجموعه هری پاتر برای من بود.
با اینکه خیلی از مواردی که اینجا در مورد لوپین گفته شده بود رو قبلا به صورت محو می‌دونستم، اما با این حال خوندن زندگی‌نامه‌اش برام جذاب بود.
واقعا ازش بدم می اومد :دیپ.ن: تجربه ترجمه این کتاب برام دلنشین بود.
خوندن کتابای دنیای هری پاتر به خودی خود دلنشین هست اما این حس که داری کتابی رو ترجمه می‌کنی و به واسطه اون به خیلی از افراد کمک می‌کنی بیشتر با دنیای هری آشنا بشن، یه حس توصیف‌ناپذیره.
En este pequeño libro de historias conocemos mejor a cuatro profesores de Hogwarts, que son McGonagall, Lupin, Trelawney y Ketterburn. Sinceramente los dos primeros han sido los mejores, aunque también es cierto que si estás muy metido en el mundo de Harry Potter, dudo que algo de lo que aquí se cuenta te sorprenda. Aún así, he disfrutado de la lectura. Por poner una pega, diría que el precio del libro electrónico (y único formato) me parece excesivo para lo que nos encontramos, pero bueno... es lo que hay.
I will never not be upset about Remus Lupin and Nymphadora Tonks. Also I love Minerva McGonagall. A lot.
Amazing!:) I must have more!
This unexpectedly moved me to near-tears.Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
2 stars - Meh. Just ok.Drastically different from the Harry Potter novels in every way, these short stories read as dry biographies with no charisma or story-telling flair. If one was not already familiar with the characters from the novels, there would be zero engagement from the shallow writing. I found no “magic” here. Would only recommend reading to the most hardcore of Potter fans and not even to them would I recommend spending money on a copy.-------------------------------------------First Sentence: Minerva’s father, the Reverend Robert McGonagall, had become captivated by the high-spirited Isobel Ross, who lived in the same village.
