https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11505797-beautiful-disaster
The guy is drop dead gorgeous, he's dangerous, he's sexy, he wants you even if you're plain like hell and what he feels for you goes beyond words: Edward Cullen, Christian Grey, Patch Cipriano, Kellan Kyle, Travis Maddox, Damen Auguste or Dimitri Belikov, they're all the same!
Girls, NO ONE is going to want to watch you sleep, or forbid you to go visit your friends, or try to kill you because they love you so fucking much, because that's not what NORMAL people do!!
As for Travis, this incident of deliberately humiliating a girl in public and dropping her on the floor like the used condom wrapper she represents to him is actually as close to a gentleman as he ever gets because this is one of the mildest examples of his behavior.After lunch, Travis and Abby conveniently have a class together although they seemed to have seen each other for the first time at the fight last night.
I would have preferred a day of skipping a shower or a cold shower to living with someone who made me uncomfortable.Abby and America arrive at the apartment just as Travis's latest fling(?) is getting ready to leave.
Your boyfriend is a prime example, which is creepy considering he went from having no respect for women at all to thinking he needs you to breathe." The one damn character who wasn't a total idiot - and every time she was mentioned in the book Abby made her sound like a complete bitch.
Travis often says stupid things that clearly indicate the relationship between himself and Abby will turn to an abusive one sooner or later - when he makes her change her clothes before they go out because he thinks what she's wearing is too revealing, for instance.
Travis calls Abby "Pigeon" a total of 97 times and "Pidge" 28.
But having seen real abuse with my own eyes, in real life..I didnt understand what everyone else saw that made it be worse and stand apart from all other books.This is a book about an alpha male.
I'm a pretty (very) conservative person and I've read paranormal books where the guys act worse than that.Abby was the one who got on my nerves the most throughout the book for jerking Travis around all the time.
Everyone is entitled to their opinion, but I don't want to deterred from a book again.
:) And in my opinion, I LOVED Travis!Great book, Jamie.
Wow...Travis, Travis, Travis. I liked him, I hated him, I liked him again...I worried about his sanity...then I loved him. And, oddly enough, I had a lot of the same feelings about Abby! So many times I wanted to scream at her, then him, then her again! Great, complex characters. I loved this!! Wonderful story, wonderful world, wonderful author!
(view spoiler)[Psycho meets Mary Sue.Psycho abuses Mary Sue.Mary Sue loves him anyway.They marry.The end. (hide spoiler)]
Shake in your boots,boys,and drop your panties,ladies!I give you : Travis 'Mad Dog' Maddox!"He made his entrance,shirtless,relaxed and unaffected.The lean muscles stretched under his tattooed skin."Okay ladies,here we go.1,2,3 and....S.W.O.O.N!!"He oozed sex and rebelliousness with his buzzed,brown hair and tattooed forearms."Uh-oh boy!!Here go my ovaries!! Ummm...QUESTION!! Can I get pregnant from this? Anyway.... Okay,now the storyline!!Abby Abernathy has a secret.She has a past.A dark past.An
Okay,I'll be truthful and tell you that I have no special love for her.Now,coming back to the story,America has a new boyfriend Shepley.He takes them watch a ring fight.And there Readers,we are first introduced to Travis,room-mate and cousin of Shepley.He can't be beaten.He can't be ignored.He never backs down from a challenge.He is a walking one-night stand.Ladies....he is UNTAMABLE.Now,I wish I could tell only good things but it won't be fair if I don't tell that he is also.....A jerk,temperamental,impulsive,has anger-management issues,immature,at times downright stupid,and also has a little stalkerish tendencies!!Now,Abby's whole life goes topsy-turvy when she becomes Travis's Pigeon.Their attraction is instant.But Abby is not ready to become yet another conquest.And Travis is not ready to back down from such a refreshing challenge.
Also laughing at the ridiculous character names, but reminding self that neither "America" or "Shepley" is as bad as "Eureka Boudreaux".Growing distaste for random "Pigeon" nickname.Hour one: Surprised by route taken by book.
Of course, Travis engaging in promiscuous behaviour is sympathized with because he's "troubled".Hour two: All sympathy for book waning.
This 400-page book, narrated by a female character, written by a woman, just barely passes the Bechdel test.Hour three: Cabin fever sets in.
(Bonus points for Travis trashing the apartment like a fucking gorilla in heat after Abby leaves in the morning without saying goodbye.
Nope. Can't do it. It's just too horrible. I've reached my max saturation point of stupidity.
There was my latent teenage self, all starry eyed and idealistic, who loved everything about this book, warring with my more mature and realistic 40-year-old self who knows better.
He really is the ultimate fantasy.Our book begins with Abby, our level-headed and strong-willed heroine, attending an underground college fight club where Travis "Mad Dog" Maddox is the undefeated champion.
What begins as a genuine friendship slowly blooms into an all consuming, passionate, and frankly, obsessive and codependent relationship.I really liked Abby's character.
The thing that makes this story both intriguing and appalling, is Travis' obsession with Abby.
Beautiful Disaster was a cluster eff of a read managing to throw everything I hate in a book into one novel.My first issue with this book are the characters.
I also don't believe Abby could be dangling these two dudes by their balls when they both openly know she is bouncing between them like that white ball in a game of pong.
(Seriously, what the hell did I just read?) No just No!My seventh and I think final issue (JK I could probably go on for days) with this book are the sub-characters.
I read this book right after (shameless plug) I wrote my first book, Slammed. Speaking of Slammed, who do you think would win in a fist fight between Travis Maddox and poetry teacher, Will Cooper? Haha. HAHAHAHA. BAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA. Let's look on the bright side. Will Cooper would write a really kick-ass poem about his hospital stay.
There has been debate with this novel as a self-published work as to what genre it fell under, given its respective thematic and the frank content of Abby and Travis' relationship.
It took me five chapters to realize what she was studying at her college, let alone a good bit of the novel to know anything about her family (and when that comes to light, it's fairly reminiscent of McGuire's other, latter penned novel "Providence" - heroine has father issues, father's associated with criminal activity, etc.) I think that disconnect was what made it hard to truly sympathize with her, aside from some harrowing moments where she's desperately getting away from her relationship with Travis and facing some antagonism from other sources (a near rape, a fire, etc.).Travis - again, I do not understand why he's a desirable male lead.
This book isn't beautiful, it's just a complete disaster. Travis is psychotic, abusive, and overprotective. I cannot believe shit like this gets published.
The characters and their reaction to Travis' obsessive behavior was INSANE.
How Abby's friends could encourage her to date such a loose cannon is beyond me.
Anybody with common sense (or any real friend) would tell her to run for the hills- this guy is mentally unstable!
I know books aren't meant to be realistic, but I think they should be rooted with some truth.
I don't need to like all the characters I'm reading about, but it's nice to understand where they are coming from.
Here I did not like the characters nor did I understand their motives.
I rarely review books unless the author is a friend of mine.
However, I thought I'd say something about this one.
I put off reading this because I'd read the reviews and the ones that complained about the editing issues worried me.
I don't like reading a book for enjoyment and find myself mentally editing it the entire time.
OMG, I am so glad I gave in and read it.
It's insanely good.
Yes, there are errors but honestly I was so wrapped up in the story I didn't care.
Must read for lovers of the alpha male.
Don't start late at night like I did.
*My Review on Walking Disaster. No Spoilers. The book  Beautiful Disaster  by Jamie McGuire has been all around the Blogosphere lately. It became available on Netgalley and many bloggers are currently reading it. This book has caused many controversy and has earned some really nasty reviews, still, the book has an average rating of 4.13. I recently stumbled upon a review that said very very no-so-nice things about Beautiful Disaster, and it also mentioned that everyone that rated this book wit
I recently stumbled upon a review that said very very no-so-nice things about Beautiful Disaster, and it also mentioned that everyone that rated this book with 5 stars was a @%#^&!#$% and insane.
Abby and Travi's relationship is very very far from perfect, but the beauty in it is that they both become the best versions of themselves when being together, and I think that's what relationships are all about: being with someone that inspires you to be better each and every day.“You know why I want you?
Anyway, the story stumbles from situation to situation - Travis is goofily in love and will savagely beat any guy that looks at Abby sideways.
He is one of those nasty, jealous, possessive, violent guys that will beat the supposed love of his life senseless just because she glances at another man or he glances at her.
I fully accept f*cked up characters in books but this guy is written as a 'hero' and he is aimed at the YA audience.
To think that a girl of Abby's age could think that Travis is some kind of romantic hero is pretty scary and a pretty appalling message to be sending out to this book's target demographic.
I need to know you’re mine.”“I’ve been yours since the second we met.”  ooooo *sigh* what can I say about this book except that its reeeeally good, HIGHLY addictive and utterly captivating.
I couldn't get enough of this book!I fell in love with how fiercely protective Travis was of Abby.
Go home.-You’re my home.”  I loved watching the journey that the characters went through - watching Travis change and become a better person, watching Abby come to terms with her past and watching the two of them fall head over heals in love.
There were more typos than I could count, the dialogue is just so cheesy it's cringe-worthy, the boy is such a Gary-Sue, BUT...oh my Lord I could NOT stop myself.
The only girl who refuses the sexy bad boy is the one he wants the most.
If a boy hits on you, try to repel him by being bitchy, ugly, and distant and he will LOVE YOU even if he denies everyone else!
Travis may have been a Gary Sue, but aside from all the CHEESINESS he oozed, you get to like some of the stuff he says and does.
i, personally, find this relationship one of the most toxic ones this side of gone girl, but i can see how someone who is young, inexperienced in relationships, and possibly living somewhere a little sheltered would see this as terribly romantic."It's just me and you against the world, Pidge."i know i talk about wuthering heights like it's the only book i have ever read.
it is just selfish and discourteous to the people with whom you live, and it is a very telling indication of your lack of respect for your conquests.4) childish displays of displeasure like travis trashing his room after abby leaves without saying goodbye.
when she meets Travis, she treats him like a piece of shit because of his reputation for fucking basically every ""pretty"" girl he encounters.
because that's how she acts with Travis,, like fighting and arguing over the dumbest of shit and i wanted to slam my head against the wall and question who even considered getting this shit published."also, if you want to have sex and flirt then you're also a dirty whore and a slut and youre dumb and youre so gross, why do you exist, bye!!!!" this is pretty much how everyone in this book think about women who want to have sex.
The plot:(view spoiler)[ Abby: I'm attracted to a guy who smokes and fights and is basically horrible for me.Travis: I'm going to wear you down with my wit and charm and sob story.Abby: Okay, so I like him and he helps me pass my classes, so Ima gonna be FRIENDS with him and totally not take issue with the fact that he had a threesome while I was in the other room.
I don't need more booze and hissy fits from the men in my life.Travis: Fine with me, but you can't leave the house without a coat on because I'll beat the shit out of anyone who looks at you.Abby: You know, I get the feeling that perhaps, maybe this might not have been such a good idea.Drama.
I liked her a lot but there were a few times that I was so pissed off with her!(view spoiler)[Seriously , I wanted to kill her when Travis begged her and cried for her outside the cafeteria and she was showing him her worst behaviour!
When you're around, I don't need booze, or money, or the fighting, or the one-night stands...” When you are everything for him , how can you not love him??She broke his heart so many times“-It's over.
"And to the absolute fucking horror of losing your best friend because you were stupid enough to fall in love with her.”(view spoiler)[I cried a lot at the end.Mrs Maddox sounds perfect.
She ends up serving more as a conflict creating mouthpiece than a real character.Then we come to Travis.If you were ever to create a bad boy checklist, Travis would tick off every box on that list; Troubled upbringing, parent issues, tattoos, extremely sexy, smarmy attitude that others somehow see as charming, motorbike, heavy drinking, no respect for authority, promiscuity, etc.
Throughout the book he talks about how Abby has changed him or how he needs her with him at all times to help him become a better person, but he remains a violent, rude and ultimately dangerous individual throughout.
Travis Maddox...well if that name doesn't make you fangirl, I don't know what does.
I went into this book blind because I heard a lot of mixed reviews about it so I didn't know what to really expect when I read this book.
Travis sleeping with other women didn't bother me at all, I know it probably should bother me, but that just makes me more anxious to see how he wins the girl in the end.
Abby was a really good heroine, she was very likable and probably one of the few heroine's I actually enjoyed reading the perspective from.
4.5 StarsOnce again, I am late to the party, but W. H. O. A!!I am trying my darnedest to come up with a word that would best describe what I just read, because honestly, this book has left me a bit speechless.I’m guessing an apt word would be “intense.” Intense emotions, intense love, intense actions.  An intense, toxic relationship! Despite of all his flaws, which he revealed unashamedly, I fell head over heels for the hero, Travis, but the heroine, Abby, well ... she needed someone to knock so
I mean seriously!!Although this is a romance, it sometimes read like a suspense, as each time I turned a page I kept one eye shut wondering what kind of trouble Travis was going to get himself into next.This was one of the most compelling ‘bad boy falls for the good girl,’ on again/off again romances I have ever read.
In the second it took him to turn and face me, his expression had contorted into anger.
I will tell you it is a YA/NA read.So buckle up, and enjoy the ride.
It is going to be wild, bumpy, and don’t forget, intense!
And another one bites the dust.
I wish (view spoiler)[the author had worked in an ending that would have appeased both those who wanted the relationship to die, and those who wanted the relationship to succeed, in such a way that would have been responsible.
The actual problems aren't with the people, but with the hurdles they have to jump before they can be happy.This book dealt with real issues, real drama, and things that do often happen when people become obsessed in a relationship.
Abby thinks bizarre things like:I looked down to my plate, letting the long strands of my caramel hair create a curtain between us.and mangles grammar like:Kara was reading ahead in her brand-new books, grimacing at America and I when we walked in.Secondly, I think this early bit of characterization says it all about Travis: He had tattoos on opposite sides of his chest, and black tribal art covering each of his bulging shoulders.
