https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/849797.Morris_Goes_to_School
Wiseman already seems to be phoning these in.
Brimming with wonderfully friendly laugh-out-loud humor from start to finish, and with illustrations reminiscent of the best in children's literature of the 1940s, '50s and '60s, Morris Goes to School tells a story that is engaging to young readers and effectively educational at the same time, never missing a beat.
Not for a moose like Morris, who is starting to grasp the importance of education.
Bernard Wiseman obviously knows his audience, and I'm confident kids in any era will have a good time with Morris Goes to School.
This is one of my childhood favorites. Can't tell you how many times I've read this book. Tonight my daughter read it to me and I couldn't help but smile when she chuckled over the same parts I remember laughing about..."He yelled, 'Where is the bee? I'm afraid of bees! They sting!Miss Fine said, 'I meant the letter B. This one here. It doesn't sting.' "Fun classic!!
"I like that Morris liked what I like: gumdops and swimming."

This is adorable and Morris is a hidden genius.
The speed that he learns is amazing.
hehehe.
With all jokes aside this is basically a BY THE BOOKS go to school book.
You have your usual classes, recess, Spelling, Math and more.
The humor is classic.
(I mean old but still humorous)The art well.
the art is really classic.
In one way it doesn't hold up to modern book art BUT in another way is does.
This books classic art style is simple, classy, with traditional characteristics and limited color pallet.
That isn't shown more than in the Candy man's drawn attire.
Morris Goes to SchoolI chose this book because this was one of my first books that helped me learn to read. This book is adorable. I like how the story incorporates both humans and an animal. I use to think it was hilarious that a moose was in the classroom. It still is funny, but not quite as funny as it use to be, obviously. I actually read this book to my nieces and nephews still.
Morris the moose wants to be able to count his money and read the store signs, so that he can buy gumdrops at the candy store, so he goes to school. He learns a lot and makes friends with the children in his class.
It is really funny. He can't read until he goes to school and he wanted to get into the boys bathroom but went into the girls bathroom. The boys and girls, when they were spelling, were trying to spell 'moose' but they spelled it 'm-o-s-e'.
I have always loved this book. I read it again for the popsugar reading challenge and I plan to read it to all my children.
Quite a simple read, and helpful for teaching. The pictures are only in shades of blues and browns, but are engaging none the less.
Silly!
Morris the moose helps us learn the importance of going to school and learning how to read and count. Without those things, even simple tasks would be very difficult.
I know for a fact that I had this book when I was a child. I love this story, and it gives me fond childhood memories, especially Morris and his gumdrops!
Not the greatest book, but the kindergarteners enjoyed it.
One of my favorite books when I was little. Still cute, although the teacher isn’t realistic for today’s schools; she is always telling the kids they are wrong.
Luisa loves Morris. Her favorite part of the book was Morris' answers to Miss Fine's questions and his hoof painting. She likes his jokes. She likes the pictures.
Spotted this cover and remembered (I think) reading it at my doctor's office as a kid.
It is a little more difficult than the beginning to read books due longer sentences and dialogue that is present.
It has sight words present, and the sentences are longer than beginning to read books, but short enough for students to understand.
I think it would be great also because it has dialogue, which is something new to students who are reading transitional books.
I also think it would be great for independent reading because students will be able to relate to the subject of going to school!
The reason I liked it was because it was okay for Morris to be wrong.
I remember when I was in school when I was younger, it was a lot more like this, where it was perfectly okay to be wrong because it was a growing and learning opportunity.
I also liked that the book shows that basic things you learn in school are necessary and essential for life in the real world.
It was necessary for Morris to learn how to read so that he went into the right bathroom.
My all time favorite when I was a kid. Still is today.
Morris the Moose was never truly a fan of mine although I did read him in my childhood.
Although it is a gentle reader book like "Sammy the Seal" and "Danny the Dinosaur" he was more of the type who got under my skin more than I wanted to relate with.
I think one can more or less say this book can be a wonderful tribute to the kind, generous teachers who put up so much with their students, though, and go out of the way to help them learn no matter what seems to be the problem.
In the story Morris Goes to School Morris wants to learn how to read, and how to count.
But Morris is a moose.
Will he be able to learn with the children, or will he just be a distraction?This book is one of my favorites, it has so much creativity to it.
And to picture a moose going to school was just the cherry to the pie.
Who would guess that gumdrops could get someone to go to school?Morris makes you realize what its like to not be able to read, and be grateful for what you know.
When I saw this book in my library in the back to school book section.
I had forgot all about this book but seeing the cover really brought back great memories.
I knew my son would say no seeing every classic book he refuses to read.
However he got happy and made me read it the moment we got home.
For some reason I love the bag of candy and the way the moose eats it.
Plus I always wondered why there was a moose in class that can read and talk and do Arithmetic.
Still a great book for the young.
And teaches how important it is to go to school and learn all you can.
Morris the Moose wants to buy candy but he goes into the wrong store 'cause he can't read the store signs.
He can't tell the candy man how much money he has he can only guess.
So the man takes him to school and he is able to sit and learn things he never knew before.
Along the way he makes funny comments on various things making the reader and the listener giggle.
Morris the Moose is a funny can't help but love character.
When Morris the moose is unable to calculate how much candy his six pennies will buy him, the candy shop keeper drops him off at school.
Morris has a number of challenges, including where to sit and how to finger count when all he has are hooves.
Morris also misunderstands a great deal about the human world.
He is not, for example, familiar with train tracks, and takes them for a ladder.
He is also very literal minded--rather like Amelia Bedelia.
For an early reader, this is a very fun and humorous text that doesn't at all talk down to young students.
Morris the moose has never been to school.
He realizes he wants to learn how to read and count when he has a mishap at the candy store.
The next time he goes to buy candy, he can read the store sign and count his money correctly.
Morris realized that he really did learn a lot in school.
This book was cute and I think young children in school will like to read/hear this book being read to them.
Some students do not feel confident in school and I think this book will make them feel better after hearing Morris' mistakes.
Morris wants to go to the candy store, but he doesn't know what he's doing. So Morris goes to school and learns enough to help him buy his beloved gumdrops. This was a long book for my early reader, but we spent three days reading it. It is great for repetition so new words were easy to learn and remember, and Morris' adventures in school were delightful for my early reader. There was a lot of laughing.
I *love* Morris! I remember reading this book as a child and loving the pictures and the story. When I had my own kids, I came across a copy and I had to have it! This book is such a cute story of a Moose who wants to go to school so that he can count his money correctly to buy candy. He doesn't fit in exactly, but he sure has a good time learning! It's a classic and I would recommend this book to anyone who reads to children.
Wiseman book Morris Goes to School is an excellent easy to read book. The story is about a Moose that wants to go back to school. The children would love this story because they could easily relate to going to school and counting. The illustrations are colorful using basic blue, black, brown and white colors throughout the book. The illustrations are really good at showing how big Morris is when he goes back to school.Ages 4-upMath ~ Practice counting gumdrops.
