https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761381.The_Halloween_Tree
After having read The Halloween Tree, I have decided that I will now read Ray Bradbury every October.
October is meant for Bradbury.There is so much to love about this book ~~ The Halloween Tree is the story of eight friends on Halloween trying to find their missing ring leader Pipkin.
It is here we meet Moundshroud who offers to help them find Pipkin, but they need to learn the truth about Halloween first.
More than that, we learn what it is like to live and grow and about the fluidity of life.
When their friend Pipkin is snatched away, his eight friends, with the mysterious Mr. Moundshroud, go looking for him, crossing time and space and learning all about Halloween.Apart from some of his short stories, I've never ready any Bradbury.
Mr. Moundshroud teaches the boys about Halloween across the ages while they look for their missing friend Pipkin.
Coraline, The Graveyard Book, practically all of Gaiman's prose owes a debt to Ray Bradbury.
Hell, The Sandman probably also has some Bradbury in his family tree.I probably missed the window for perfect enjoyment of this book by decades.
Welllll, that was different! 🎃Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐺🐾
The Halloween Tree by Ray Bradbury is a short novel by the grandmaster that uses as a premise a group of trick or treating boys traveling through time chasing a mysteriously missing friends to create a vehicle for examining the roots and sources of Halloween. Probably written for a juvenile or young adult audience, Bradbury demonstrates his range and imagination to craft a story that is as entertaining as any of his more recognized works. The character Moundshroud, most likely as a personification of Death, is certainly a memorable Bradbury creation.
Years and years ago, I saw an opening snippet of a Halloween movie on Cartoon Network - it was October and they had Halloween-themed cartoons running all day long, from the Addams Family to special episodes of Scooby Doo...but this one caught my attention: it was a full length animation, and the opening scene featured a bird's eye view on a small town, where dusk had just began to fall, and the skies were fiery red.
Smoke panted up out of a thousand chimneys like the plumes of funeral parades." I had an awesome feeling of nostalgia as the story was set up and the boys dressed in their costumes and prepared themselves for a night of thrills and adventure.
Here the reader journeys and learns about the history of Halloween through the ages and across the continents right along with this pack of boys.
I just wish I could regurgitate some of what I learned about Halloween, but I'm afraid Mr. Moundshroud's grandiose efforts were a bit lost on me!
It feels like Mary Poppins and Bednobs and Broomsticks would if they were actually good movies.
And maybe it could be an excellent movie, too!But for me, I feel like I should have loved this long before I ever watched Nightmare Before Christmas.It's all about timing.
At my late age, I want to start taking exception to some of the conclusions that Bradbury makes, nitpick about the history, complain about the lack of girls, and give a horribly injust condemnation to the book because it lacks the whole modern Halloween and horror awesomeness that us moderns have to offer.For shame!
I'll be reading more Bradbury!The writing in this is phenomenal, it's delight to read. I'm not sure why, but the images in my head when reading this were very Tim Burton-esque. What are some of his other works that I should check out? Besides Fahreinheit 451 that is...
It's big, it's broad ...It's broad, it's bright ...It fills the sky of All Hallow's Night ...The strangest sight you've ever seen.The monster Tree on Halloween.The leaves have burned to gold and redThe grass is brown, the old year dead,But hang the harvest high, Oh see!The candle constellations on the Halloween Tree!The stars they turn, the candles burnAnd the mouse-leaves scurry on the cold wind bourne,And a mob of smiles shine down on theeFrom the gourds hung high on the Halloween Tree.The sm
At some point I also heard about Halloween or All Hallow's Eve (it wasn't celebrated here for a long time) and it has quickly become my favourite "holiday" of the year.
All Hallows Eve has had many names throughout the centuries and was (still is, in fact) celebrated all over the world and always for the same reason: the fear of darkness and hope for the light (sun) to come back.
In fact, many years ago, November 1st used to be New Year's!This book is full of the energy of children running around, playing in heaps of leaves, trick-or-treating, carving pumpkins and laughing all the while.
Es una pena que no leyera esta historia con 10 años porque me hubiera encantado.... en cambio ahora me ha sabido a poco. Creo que esperaba demasiado de Bradbury por lo que me gusta el autor, pero esta no deja de ser una historia infantil oscurilla. Aún así, me ha resultado entretenida, y el camino que recorren los personajes por las tradiciones de Halloween muy interesante. Lectura curiosa pero tampoco para tirar voladores.
A thousand grimaces."Eight young boys learn about the origin stories of Halloween with the help of a mysterious character called Carapace Clavicle Moundshroud.
Moundshroud helps the children travel through space and time to teach them about the origin of Halloween, from Ancient Egyptian traditions to The Day of the Dead in Mexico.
Bradbury's prose is poetic and beautiful, and his descriptions of both Halloween and autumn are mesmerising.There's also beautiful illustrations in my edition by Joe Mugnaini (not sure if they're in all editions), but they're a lovely addition to the story.My only negative really is that at times it felt a bit rushed as Moundshroud and the children moved around from each place.
I often find Ray Bradbury's writing a bit precious. At some point in his career it seems to me that he became more concerned with being a GREAT AUTHOR than simply telling a great story. And, yes, I felt that way sometimes while listening to The Halloween Tree. BUT... And that's a rather large 'BUT.'But, with The Halloween Tree he did manage to pull off the gorgeous poetic prose, the grand imagery, while telling a wonderful story. I don't use the word 'wonderful' often in a serious manner, but he
And that's a rather large 'BUT.'But, with The Halloween Tree he did manage to pull off the gorgeous poetic prose, the grand imagery, while telling a wonderful story.
There seems to be no other word to describe this book.Every word seems perfectly chosen, each sentence, paragraph, and scene, meticulously crafted to evoke the spirit of Halloween and the feeling of being a young boy.I listened to Bronson Pinchot's excellent narration, Bradbury's hypnotic meditation on death and rebirth, and let the grandest Halloween vistas build and burn in my mind, endlessly reforming and shattering, reassembling and disintegrating, painting themselves over and over, only to be washed away a thousand times.
Bir günde okudum. Kafamı kaldıramadım bile. Tek gecelik Cadılar Bayramı bu kadar fantastik, çocuksu, heyecanlı ve korkutucu anlatılabilir. Tim Burton'ın filmlerinden birinde kayboldum adeta. Her zaman ki akıcı Ray Bradbury dili, merak, kuşku, tedirginlik. Sizi yerinize mıhlayan bir anlatım. Kitap bittiğinde başlarkenkinden daha fazla düşünce, ihtimal, renk, doku. Çok zengin bir hayali güç. Bayıldım.
I struggled a lot with how this book was written, because of that I had a hard time following alone with what was going on. I plan on watching the movie though, and I hope I enjoy that wayyy more!
“Suddenly the day was gone, night came out from under each tree and spread.” ― Ray Bradbury, The Halloween TreeIt was nice to read this and remember that before Stranger Things and before Neil Gaiman there was Ray Bradbury.
I see him when I read Neil Gaiman, when I watch Stranger Things, when I look at Mugnaini art (and Mugnaini's decendants: see Burton/Selick's Nightmare Before Christmas), when I listen to Danny Elfman & Oingo Boingo.Anyway, I'm also amazed going back to Ray Bradbury how much poetry there is in his prose.
He was one of those storytellers who can't help but write beyond most of his audience.
Cuando era más chica, "The Halloween Tree" era una de mis películas favoritas para ver durante el mes de Octubre.
Sin duda, una aventura asombrosa que me alegra haber leído.Lo disfruté tanto que sinceramente me gustaría que todo el mundo se diera la oportunidad de leerlo, más ahora, aprovechando que estamos a pocos días de Halloween.
Es un libro hermoso, dotado de muchísima información sobre historia, todo bellamente plasmado con una rica descripción para cada situación.
Por momentos, realmente sentía que volaba con la cometa, que era un personaje más observando todo desde un rincón.
This was a fun little Halloween read, about a three hour audiobook read by Bronson Pinchot. It starts with a bunch of 11-12 year old boys on Halloween night, assembling for trick-or-treating, and veers off into a boys adventure novel that also has elements of American Gods. I loved the Halloween tree and will look for one this year. :)
Sin embargo, esta obra no es meramente un recorrido cultural; mientras el viaje transcurre, los niños están intentando salvar a uno de sus amigos de un peligro inminente.Bradbury nos presenta un clásico con tintes algo infantiles pero siempre macabros, tal como la celebración a la cual está dedicada el libro.
Aquí están presentes los elementos de diversas tradiciones y mitologías pero a la vez, el autor nos ofrece una nueva leyenda, un nuevo personaje que se suma al folklore de la festividad: Carapace Clavicle Moundshroud y su árbol iluminado con miles de calabazas.
At my age I can no longer climb trees like a monkey or sail through the air, leaping over hedges as I sprint down the street.
But because of writers like Ray Bradbury, I can still do these things in my mind.
I can escape into the far reaches of my mind and become a boy again, leaping, running...
This is a great adventure and glimpse into the heart of All Hallows Eve. And it is done masterfully through the eyes of 8 boys who have donned their costumes, let go of reality and courageously plunged into darkness to aid a friend and to discover what it means to seek a treat that just might be a trick.
VividImaginativeFantasticDark...I think I could quote this book forever...Night and day. Summer and winter, boys. Seedtime and harvest. Life and death. That’s what Halloween is, all rolled up in one. Noon and midnight. Being born, boys. Rolling over, playing dead like dogs, lads. And getting up again, barking, racing through thousands of years of death each day and each night Halloween, boys, every night, every single night dark and fearful until at last you made it and hid in cities and towns and had some rest and could get your breath.
It’s taken me a couple of readings, but I now finally realize that The Halloween Tree is the equivalent for Halloween what A Christmas Carol is for Christmas: an enchanting journey into the history of Halloween where one leans much and is changed by it.A group of eight boys are on their way out to trick or treat on Halloween, all in different costumes – skeleton, mummy, gargoyle, etc.
And so the boys begin their journey, forming the tail of a giant kite controlled by Moundshroud and they pass back through time and visit the Halloweens of history: Ancient Egypt, Rome, Greece, medieval Britain, Notre Dame, and El Dia de Los Muertos.
Thanks again, Ed!)I enjoyed this fanciful tale even though it wasn't a bit scary.
As was true of the 2 other Bradbury stories I've read, the prose was flat out amazing.
That being said, I wasn't that impressed with the tale itself.
Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed it, but I felt that it was written more for pre-teens or teenagers than adults.
I know that Mr. Moundshroud would have fascinated me as a teenager.
There is a message here to be learned, but even if you don't "get" the moral, you still have a wildly imaginative tale to enjoy.
see, knopf was interested in a straight-up juvenile book.
bradbury wanted to write "a book for children of all ages." so, when the first knopf edition was published in 1972, there were a ton of cuts, largely to bradbury's wonderful descriptive passages.
also included are a ton of supplemental materials, including correspondence with chuck jones (with whom bradbury was working to create a rival to "it's the great pumpkin, charlie brown"), international dust jacket illustrations, interviews with the author, his original screenplay, the teleplay of the 1992 animated version, and bradbury's working draft.
This will most definitely be an October read for me around Halloween from this year forward.
It's a read every year kind of book.
Only Ray Bradbury, in the spirit of a traditional holiday tale, can weave the magic of Halloween into a tale with a dark meaningful moral at the end.
I was utterly enchanted moving through the ages of time with the boys and Mr. Moundshroud as the the group searched for the elusive, wisp like Pipkin.
Tears sprang to my eyes as Tom briefly questions Mr. Moundshroud at the end about Death.
All in all, this book checks every single box of an amazing read.
3.5"O Mr. Moundshroud, will we EVER stop being afraid of nights and death?""When you reach the stars, boy, yes, and live there forever, all the fears will go, and Death himself will die."On Halloween night, 8 boys go to their friend Pipkin's house so they can go trick-or-treating.
In each place, Pipkin seems to be incorporated into the history of the culture somehow in some spooky way each time, waiting to be saved.
Can they save him?This would be a great book to read aloud to kids 10+ for the Halloween season.
Reto 29- 2018 Book Challenge: Un libro acerca de o ambientado en Halloween.
It was good, just not the Bradbury I’m accustomed to. Made me think about the origins of Halloween, which is the whole point. Best part by far came near the end – where meaningful Bradbury surfaced.
This was such a quick, fun little story that's perfectly suited for Halloween.
I mean, like, duh.
I think my favorite part of the book was when the boys experienced The Day of the Dead Ones in Mexico.
And when they find Pip & have to make that hard decision to save him!
The atmosphere was rich & full for such a short book!
It's obviously not a book that's going to change your life or anything, but it satisfied my desire for a children's story centered around Halloween!
at the House the place of Haunts.The house was special and fine and tall and dark.
The wind made by the suddenly opening door almost knocked the boys off the porch.
A wind sucked through the gaping door.It pulled at the boys, dragging them across the porch.
But then the wind ceased.Darkness moved within darkness.Inside the house, a long way off, someone was walking toward the door.Whoever it was must have been dressed all in black for they couldsee nothing but a pale white face drifting in the air.An evil smile came and hung in the doorway before them.Behind the smile, the tall man hid in shadows.
The Halloween Tree, by Ray Bradbury, is to Halloween what Charles Dickens's A Christmas Carol is to Christmas.
If the novella is not required reading, it should be.
This short book proves that Halloween is so much more than a holiday created by candy bar companies, and is most certainly not a satanic celebration.
From the tombs of Egypt to the underworld of Mexico during Dia de Los Muertos, Bradbury whisks us away on an autumnal wind.
The journey is poignant and purposeful.
We lost Mr. Bradbury this past year.
