https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/885541.The_Best_Little_Girl_in_the_World
Also adapted into a film starring Jennifer Jason Leigh, The Best Little Girl in the World was one of the first books to truly address teen eating disorders in depth.
Still, from the context of it being such an important stepping stone in mental illness YA literature, The Best Little Girl in the World does make for interesting reading.
I read this book when i was about 11 and it honestly became part of my downfall.
For me it was more of "how to" then a "dont be like her".
Although I still to this day like this book i was WAY to young to read it.
I think its an important book even if the writer is in my opion a self-righteous hack...
I would highly suggest this book to any parent or family member of someone suffering an eating disorder or a well adjusted adult or teenager.
Besides reducing the inner life of the protagonist to that of a cartoon character and wrapping up a disorder that often skews towards a life sentence by a few weeks of giving the doctor total control, Levenkron seems barely able to mask his sense that all women are kind of fucked up and this particular caricature is an adequate depiction of American femininity, eating disordered or otherwise.
A great book, however, if you find it enlightening to read the nuances of particular food obsessions and rituals -- is the price of this meal divisible by 4?
The little girl's "recovery" is kind of unsatisfying as it's unclear what she'll have in her life now.
I read this book in high school several times. It's about a young girl - Francessca dying (literally) to be model thin. You get wrapped up in her rituals that rule her life and you also feel what her parents go thru as they watch her waste away...
more interesting as historical artifact than as literary experience. the first novel about anorexia, to my knowledge. extremely heavy-handed with the psychologizing, and the heroism of the psychologist reads a bit suspect, given that the writer himself is, ahem, a psychologist. while there is deep sympathy for kessa (l'anorexic), there's also a lot of scorn, from numerous characters and at times from the omniscient narrator himself. this kind of ambivalence interests me, especially given the pedagogical imperative of the novel.
One of the worst novels I've ever read about eating disorders and yet it somehow has this hypnotic hold over the reader...a much, much better novel is _Winter Girls_ by Laurie Halse Anderson. It does not glamorize anorexia nor make it seem like something good...or something off of a "pro-ana" website. Levenkron's novel, unfortunately, is like a play-by-play manual...overrated and well-known for all the wrong reasons.
If you really want to get in the head of a disordered eater, read Wintergirls instead.OK wait I changed my review from three to two stars because I gave this more thought and realized that the one psychologist in the book, the "hero" who is the only one who can get through to this obstinate anorexic girl, is quite clearly the author inserting himself into the story.
Levenkron sacrifices details and accuracy in his characterization of Kessa by spending an excessive amount of time describing the poor psychologist's struggles to be taken seriously by the doctors at the hospital -- that added nothing to the story, it was just the author's hope that you would sympathize with the psychologist and how rough his life is because of his nobility and heroism.
kessa is, i think, fairly believable.
i am enormously glad that he wrote a follow-up book, finally ( kessa), because let's face it, the relapse rate for anorexia is awful high.
the father wants to control, the mother is emotional, kessa finds both of them weak.
the thing that i did really like was that it wasn't particularly triggering, and it didn't go into detail about ways to cheat the system, etc.
you can rec it to someone with an ED without worrying they'll just get new ideas about how to cheat at weigh-ins (yes, i am talking about  wasted, which should be banned or something).
The interesting thing is he gave a clear idea of what doctors think about anorexics.Granted this was written in 1978 when people were just realizing that women were starving themselves but 33 years later not much has changed but the hairstyle, clothes, and the lingo (YOU wild turkey!!
The lingo made me laugh.The other thing was the author was really gung ho about making the shrink the misunderstood underdog of the story that breaks through to the anorexic girls.
I didn't mind those parts but I think it took away from the focus of the anorexic girls.All in all it was a very informative book.
I read this book a long time ago and still talk about it to this day even though I've never had the eating disorder as our heroine did. This is a great read and really gives you insight as to what this type of life is like.
I hate this book because it is written by a man who doesn't know anything about the experience of having an eating disorder.
An anorexia book that I have had to replace twice in the library. The girls love this book. The book is 25+ years old but teens still like it.
I read this in like high school I think, but I remember it being a really good book that gives a very realistic look into the minds of people with eating disorders.
Everything happens way too fast, one day she was fine, the next she had an eating disorder ?
Not a book for young girls because it could trigger them, but then again not a book for the older generations because it's not elaborate enough and sounds almost childish at times, so I don't quite know who the intended audience was ?!
it's stuff that's been researched ages ago, and most people who've looked a bit into eating disorders probably know it already, every single article/book/documentary mentions these potential causes.
honestly, this book doesn't teach anything at all, it's all way too basic.
The way he writes the book makes the reader, if not otherwise informed, think that an eating disordered person must not only be white, privileged, and female, but also must be emaciated.
He ignores the most basic thing - that people of any weight can have an eating disorder - and chooses instead to make his protagonist tiny.It feels like in this book, as in his book The Luckiest Girl in the World (about self injury), that Levenkron just took all of the possible stereotypes about anorexia nervosa, put a random name to them, and put them down on paper.
I was so surprised when she gave me this book to read, she told me the snippets then I got interested, I could say this book is repleted with text that would describe every girls' situation in our society today; adding to the fact that Francesca is a ballerina, it adds to her pressure to get thinner and thinner every moment possible.
This not a type of book that must be left in your sister's shelves or elsewhere :) I gave this 5 shining stars because this book has a very vast text that both describes our current society's idea of beauty and at the same time how girls try to struggle through it.
While I understand that at the time this was a groundbreaking work of fiction, today it's not.
It makes the whole Eating Disorder seem really, really easy.
She literally decides one day not to eat and has a pretty good grasp on calorie content of food.
The pacing of the book makes it seem like she loses all that weight in a few days.
It takes a long time to lose weight.
That said, it was still pretty important for the time that it was written, I'm sure.
The writing shifted POVs without much warning and I didn't really like the style.
A truly frightening story.One day at dance class, Francesca's dance teacher tells her she needs to drop just a few pounds from her already tiny body. And that night, Kessa, Francesca's alterego, is born. Kessa stops eating and begins losing too much weight. Her parents take her to the doctor and try therapy. But Kessa still won't eat. Her obsession begins turning into to an actual fear. She drops to 78 pounds. Her chances of living are looking, well, slim.253 pages. 1 book.I recommend this to people interested in the minds of patients with anorexia nervosa.
I really really liked this book, it was so sad to watch a girl struggle with society and being perfect that she starts to kill herself by not eating! when you read this you want to help her but you can't and she just keeps loosing weight until she ends up in rehab. i recommend this book to everyone because it is a strong powerful book, and just to put yourself in a person with anorexia nervosa's place will let you see what people who have this go through and feel. I am glad my sister recommended it to me!
Revisiting this one from my youth. What I find interesting about reading books like this from the 70s/80s (or earlier) is that they are before the age of SSRIs. It's interesting to see psychiatric illnesses from different points of view depending on era and the treatments available.
Though I admire this book because it was ground-breaking when it came out, as it is essentially the first fictional book on eating disorders ever written, I found it a little too dramatic. As someone who has suffered with anorexia myself, this was a little unrealistic. It's worth reading, though.
This was a good book about anorexia that had a lot of clinical type information, but it was fiction and interesting--definitely a departure from the recent attitude about anorexia in popular culture.
Not very realistic, very dated. A nice quick read but not helpful or informative.
Very easy read in terms of smoothness and how short the chapters are.Topic wise, I believe when this book was first published, there may be a lot of things that were ahead of its time.
Reading it in 2018 many may not seem so, being that majority of the professionals are male and there seem to be a theme of a male swooping in and saving a woman's life, etc.
Overall, this book did a good job going into the insight of the topic at hand and the struggles from the patient and their family.It's not bad of a book but not one I would pick up again.For those who will read it, keep in mind that this book was published many years ago.
okay.
okay.
so i had heard of this book--rather the film first, and had an idea of what it was.
i didn't like it, plain and simple.
the beginning was horrible, and felt like a textbook version of trying to explain what anorexia was.
overall, the book had some decent parts, but it just felt as if someone was observing anorectics from the outside, and was interviewing them, and then written this book.
it felt dry and unrealistic.
for example, there wasn't a SINGLE scene where she binged.
i don't know a single person who had anorexia who hadn't binged at least once during their time with anorexia.

I first read this book when I was between the ages of 18 and 21. I really enjoyed it. At that time my idols were Audrey Hepburn and Twiggy and I wanted to have their type of figure almost more than anything in the world. I still do at 38.I remember using this book as a sort of Pro-Ana manifesto, it was pretty good for that if you had enough willpower, which I never had. I would not recommend this book due to the nature of it, though the story itself was good.
I read this about in sixth grade and it was saddening to me because I dealt with a lot of issues of starving myself and body image of myself. I wanted to hug the main character and tell her many things that I would never tell myself because I didn't believe in them. But this book is very important to me,,,it sorta did help myself if that makes sense. I just loved everything of the books just because of the importance of it to me;;
Dated. Not based on current therapies.
couldn't force myself to read this book, Francesca is so unlikeable
