https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22554204-lumberjanes-vol-1
FRIENDSHIP TO THE MAX! Fun and charming with a solid story and fantastic art! I want more!
i am a fan of the spirit and the messaging and the energy of this book but i'm not personally crazy about either the artwork or the story. when this book first started making the rounds here on goodreads, for some reason i didn't clock that it was YA. i saw that people were adding it to their YA shelves, but i've come to terms with the fact that as long as there's a teenage character in a book, people are gonna shelve it as YA on goodreads regardless of whether it's intended for teen readers, o
i think i would have felt talked-down to, the way religious material directed at teens misses that target of age-appropriateness by presenting unilaterally shiny and morally flawless characters who are perky and great at everything and willing to pitch in and fight fire and succor the needy, perfect and unstoppable like a fifties housewife on benzos.
as a female-person, it's hard not to want to love a book that's so oohrah girl power and full of smart math-loving girlnerds who say things like 
I was kind of disappointed with this one. I had thought going into this that Noelle Stevenson had done the art, but alas I was wrong. I kind of wish she would've done the art, because I wasn't a huge fan of Brooke Allen's style. It's kind of messy in my opinion. I still enjoyed the story and will definitely be picking up the next volume, but I just wasn't impressed with this volume.
(That's how I end up picking up most of my books these days.)And I wanted to love it.
I liked it fine.
A book everyone else loves leaves me kinda feeling....
meh.
This happens to everyone I think, and it's not an issue of quality.
I think it's an issue of personal taste.
I think this is one of the books that I appreciate more than I enjoy.
I see what it's doing, and the craft of the book is excellent, but it just isn't the right flavor for me.
I really wanted to like it, but...
meh.So yeah.
I liked it.
Didn't love it.
Yetis, three-eyed foxes, talking animals, crazy boys (literally)… you name it, this graphic novel’s got so many paranormal things that I didn’t even bother to count them.
You can’t make sense of it at all, and we’re not even given some kind of explanation for what’s happening.
They’re young, they want action, adventure, and I guess they, too, want to know what the hell is happening.
But, well, it's such a childish quest.I also didn’t like the drawing style.
That’s my favorite kind of art style.
*shrugs*It doesn’t deserve a one-star rating, since it’s fast and entertaining in a strange way, but I sadly can’t bring myself to grant it more than two stars.
This was so cute and hilarious.
I enjoyed this way more than I thought I would.
But with the solid artwork (IT'S SO PRETTY), the dialogue causing me to LOL multiple times and the story being just plain FUN, how could I not?Things I loved:- Loved that the camp sign had HARD CORE LADY TYPES nailed over "Ladies." - Also, FRIENDSHIP TO THE MAX!
Heck yeah, positive female friendships!- The Lumberjanes pledge!
"Then there's a line about god or whatever." I DIED.- Unexpected puns.
Can this be a thing?
Let's make it a thing.- The clever and hilarious way gender is challenged.
And they're not going to let a magical quest or an array of supernatural being get in their way!I’ve been looking to get my hands on this volume for months now.
But I didn’t enjoy this graphic novel as much as I hoped I would, there was just something lacking in it for me.The characters weren’t as developed as I would have like and there wasn't one that stood out to me, although April managed to make me laugh on multiple occasions.Also, the action in this volume didn’t make me feel excited or scared or anything really…I just didn’t feel any connections to the art, plot, or characters.It was, however, a quick and funny read and I’m glad I flew through it.*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate.
If you're interested in buying Lumberjanes, Vol. 1, just click on the image below to go through my link.
WELL THIS WAS DISAPPOINTING. The plot basically made no sense at all, and the art didn't match the art on the cover which makes me so sad... There were a couple of funny moments (Ripley is incredible), but overall it was too silly for my taste.
Billed as ‘young teen/teen,’ I wouldn’t have any problem letting a younger person read it, just note they might miss some of the subtext.and possibly, fun but unfortunately obscure references.Mae Jemison was the first African-American woman in spaceAt any rate, the Hardcore Lady Types have a lot to deal with: late night wanderings lead to mysterious encounters, a day on the river leads to a monster encounter, caving becomes puzzle-solving, and a simple hike leads to a strange tower and a nearby camp for boys.
Occasionally the messaging gets to be a little heavy, but since it’s a message I support, it wasn’t very bothersome.The drawings are fun, blocky, elongated, lots of primary-type colors and not going for a lot of realism/depth.
I LOVED THIS ALL
I found this to be absolutely delightful and I can't wait to get more.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Allow me to introduce the Lumberjanes. They aren’t your typical girl scouts . . .  Nope, these girls aren’t interested in selling cookies. They want ACTION and ADVENTURE!!! It’s action and adventure they will find at Miss Qiunzilla Thiskwin Penniquiqul Thistle Crumpet's Camp for Hard-Core Lady-Types. Follow along as the girls face one quest after another and use their smarts . . .  To make it past any obstacle in their way . . .  Even
They aren’t your typical girl scouts .
Nope, these girls aren’t interested in selling cookies.
They want ACTION and ADVENTURE!!!
It’s action and adventure they will find at Miss Qiunzilla Thiskwin Penniquiqul Thistle Crumpet's Camp for Hard-Core Lady-Types.
This was just about the most adorable thing I’ve ever seen.
While the plot was kind of a bit all over the place, Lumberjanes was pure fun.
The only things to really complain about is that something that can easily be read in less than 30 minutes costs so much money (Thank Jeebus for the library!) and that I might have a bit of a volatile reaction should I ever hear the phrase 
Reread!This was so damn adorable and hilarious! The art was gorgeous, the writing was fantastic, the characters were quirky and the story was just great and unique and gave me all the feminist and butt-kicking feels! I need more!!!
sweet and goofy and perfect for my friend's kid. she'll love it! well I hope she loves it. the Lumberjanes are really supportive to each other and I can't remember the last time I've seen that in an adult comic. some great messages in here but nothing moralistic or obnoxious. the art is colorful and super fun. yay, Lumberjanes!
One of her favorite television shows is Gravity Falls and this has a very similar vibe.It is also a girl power book in that it showcases young women looking after and protecting themselves.
A positive message, a fun story and cute graphics- I highly recommend it.The highlights of this graphic novel are: the panel containing "the Kitten Holy" (Though she hasn't read it yet, my child flipped through the book just to find it.
Hilarious.Thank you to my Goodreads friends for recommending this excellent graphic novel to me.
Re-read 4/9/18: This was so much cuter than I remembered and I am SO excited to carry on with the series now! Original read 10/26/15: I wasn't really sold on this at first, but by the end I was enjoying myself SO MUCH. I can't wait to get my hands on the next volume. So cute.
It is the urge to learn how to lay and follow trails, identify the healing abilities of local fauna, how to walk great distances and run even farther, and how to work around the unnatural and supernatural forces that a Lumberjane is bound to confront.This book was awesome.It's about 5 scouts at a summer camp.
- And a variety of skin color, body type and sexuality is represented (in both males and females).
(hide spoiler)] - The art, especially when it comes to the supernatural creatures, is great.
CONS: - I don't like this drawing style where all the characters (except April) have beady little eyes.
I'm in love. Every boy's own adventure book I read as a kid has been expertly transformed into this totally fantastic badass lady-types, rip-roaring, fun never stops, comic of perfection. The characters are just screamingly wonderous; the art - a breath of fresh air; the story- hilarious. If you know anyone who is, or loves, a badass lady-type then make them read this because they will love it forever.
The artwork was amazing but the rest was just kinda meh :(
This was just absolutely everything I wanted it to be! The characters were sassy, the colours were vibrant, the plot was action-packed and, basically, this just gave me all of the feminist feels. YAY for feisty female protagonists who kick butt!
Lumberjanes is one of the cutest, funniest and loveliest graphic novels I've read.To be fair, I haven't yet read that many. But it's hard to find any, that capture my interest as much as this series does. (Of course there's Saga, Vol. 1, which is by far my favourite.)Anyhow, what I enjoy in graphic novels is a creative and orginal plot, lots of colours, as well as diverse and exciting characters. Lumberjanes has all of that and it's cute as a bad full of kittens. Thumbs up!Find more of my books on Instagram
Something in the description from Goodreads reviewers tickled my fancy in a way no other graphic novel, comic or work of fantasy fiction really has--long names and geography and handshakes I have to learn are enough to give me an ice cream headache and keep me away from most epic fantasy.The story plunges the reader into the world of five Lumberjane scouts at Miss Quinzella Thiskwin Penniquiqul Thistle Crumpet's Camp for Girls Hardcore Lady Types in the thick of the summer season.
Allen and done in a rather sloppy, rather annoying, semi-manga style:The story itself was okay - girls at a summer camp have Indiana Jones-style adventures in the hopes of earning merit badges.
They're just one big, ball of giggly teenaged fun.I seem to be pretty much alone in thinking this one was not the bee's knees.
Maybe I'm just too old.
(After all, I did just use the term "the bee's knees.") Or maybe it's because this - is the only camping badge I ever earned.
This book is about one second long.It spends that second being very cool and fun and unique and in many ways rad, and also that second's worth of art is wonderful, but all of that does not change the fact that it only lasts for a second.The characters MIGHT be good, and the world MIGHT be good, and the story MIGHT be good, but again I wouldn't be able to tell you because I only spent a second with any of those things.
And in some ways really just a fraction of a second, if you divide it up.Maybe I will continue with this series, BUT HOW AM I EVEN SUPPOSED TO KNOW IF I LIKED IT ENOUGH TO DO THAT.The art was dope though.Bottom line: ????????
6/22/17 Reread for my summer YA Comics class with a focus on girls.
One of the younger series/books we are reading.
5/18/15 Very high-energy all-ages comic by a rising star in the burgeoning area of strong girl stories.
This one is set up like it is a Girl Scout/Brownie book complete with mottos and codes and merit badge requirements set in a summer camp, and not for Lumberjacks, but awesome Lumberjanes, and throw in three-eyed fantasy characters and some silly humor and cross-camp battles.
I really did like it quite bit for all its energy and humor, and more importantly, my eight year old daughter, a Brownie who craves camping, likes it a whole lot.
I thought, modern young girls going to summer camp, it’s not going to be that great, probably some hipster nonsense with the kids talking like witty adults, and then it turned into this kinda cool fantasy adventure.
The characters are as you’d expect young teen girls to be: awkward, clumsy, silly, innocent-ish, and I liked that they’re not overly obsessed with their looks or boys and junk.
It’s a very kid-friendly all-ages comic full of action and adventure with a group of likeable characters.
It’s great that there’s a comic out there catering for a completely different audience, and that it has as many positive messages in it as Lumberjanes does.
5 STARS!!!What the junk?THIS WAS FREAKING AWESOME!
When I first heard about this I thought it was some kind of contemporary, coming of age graphic novel, but then I got it free for my Kindle app and decided to give it a go...
This was action packed, hilarious, fun, crazy, and awesome as hell.
I feel like this needs to be turned into an animated TV series ASAP because it would be epic.
Since the rest of the series isn't free on Kindle I will be getting a hold of them via my public library very soon.
I need more.
It made them feel real, rather than a classic caricature of what a girl 'should' look like.
I'm also very much looking forward to hopefully getting to know the characters in more depth.
They all seem like so much fun but I don't feel as though we were introduced to them as individuals quite as much as I'd have liked in this.
I'm super excited to see where this story is going and to get a little more depth and insight into both the plot and characters in the next volume!
The best way I can describe it is if there were a Girl Scout camp in Gravity Falls.
As you might guess from the Gravity Falls comparison, this is filled with really weird and basically inexplicable things.
I just need to have fun reading about it.
And the adventures are fun, because the girls are fun.And that's where the book really shines, for me.
I love this cast of characters.
There's also a very tweenage feel to the book, but I'm totally immature so that doesn't bother me in the slightest.
My younger siblings have really gotten into these books lately, plus I'd seen them a lot around the internet and in bookstores and whatnot.
I loved this so, so much.
(I laughed a lot at the Lumberjanes pledge––"Then there's a line about God or whatever." It's too real.)• The humor is spot-on.
There were times I had to just put the book down for a second because I was laughing so hard.
And I loved the cover gallery at the end of the book.
The final word:I love this book!
Read it right now.
RIGHT NOW.
