https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/586616.A_History_of_
There are people out there who like math and haphazardly hurling invective at pretty much anyone who doesn’t have enough sense to duck out of the way.Beckmann is one such calculating curmudgeon, never for a moment dissuaded to let fly with a litany of political opinions even while right in the middle of an equation.
A bone to pick (specifically: a radius).You don’t have to love either math or getting into fur-flying cerebral brawls as much as Beckmann or myself in order to appreciate this book.
Don’t expect one of those popular math books that dumb it down and pretty it up to avoid offending or intimidating anyone.
Brilliantly outlined history of pi, but just like Charles Seife's "Zero The Biography of a Dangerous Idea", I am left wanting more. I want the Chinese, Mayan, and Indian history of pi. The Mayan history of pi was most likely burned by that one bishop, but the Chinese and Indian history I believe to be still in existence. Other than that, it was a thoroughly engrossing read and definitely nice to have read for my continuing Mathematics education.
To his credit, he does include a helpful tip in his introduction:"The reader who find the mathematics too difficult in some places is urged to do what the mathemeticians will do when he finds it too trivial: Skip it."While I don't feel like I missed anything important in skipping over the many pages of equations, I am a little irked at being made to feel ignorant by the casual way in which Beckmann starts talking about things like the arcsin of the integrand.Among these little problems, however, arises the "1971 Factor".
Dear Goodreads Admins:Please rig your system so that the average star rating for this book is equal to the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter, rounded to three significant digits.Thanks,--jeffP.S. I am still almost as ignorant about π as i was before reading this book. Disappointing.
Easily readable for a mathematical book. Full of interesting anecdotes. A little light on Eastern mathematicians. Consider 1. Chinese - Lui Hui’s (3rd century) Algorithm - With this method Zu Chongzhi obtained the eight-digit result: 3.1415926 < π < 3.1415927, which held the world record for the most accurate value of π for 1200 years, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liu_Hui...2. Japanese - Seki Takakazu (1642 – 1708 ) who knew Pi to 10 decimal places https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seki_Ta...
Chinese - Lui Hui’s (3rd century) Algorithm - With this method Zu Chongzhi obtained the eight-digit result: 3.1415926 < π < 3.1415927, which held the world record for the most accurate value of π for 1200 years, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liu_Hui...2.
Japanese - Seki Takakazu (1642 – 1708 ) who knew Pi to 10 decimal places https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seki_Ta...3.
Indians - have contributions from the greats Varahamihira, Brahmagupta, Sridhara , Aryabhatta and Madhava but one cannot go past Srinivasa Ramanujan whose fast (exponentially) converging infinite series of Pi opened the door for Digit Hunters to use computers to calculate Pi to trillions of decimal places.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sriniva...SDe0 02/02/2018
Even though other numbers, such as e, the base of the natural logarithms, are just as important in mathematics, they have not received the attention that π has.
There is also a section describing some of the people convinced that they have squared the circle, despite it having been proven that it cannot be done.
There is also a section on the attempt by the Indiana State Legislature in 1897 to decree the value of pi.
Beckmann has developed a readable account of how knowledge of the number and its value has been explored by the greats and some not so greats.
So, starting from that point, you know that any math this *is* included is likely to be bizarre.
Fair enough.However, when the first few examples he gives of how the ancients found their values for pi are rendered into oh-so-simple differential calculus, it does not count as making the book math-lite to merely leave out the proof.
Leave out the differential calculus, too!
(Near as I can tell, the half-angle arctangent series are muy importanto to programming computers to figure out pi for us.)However, the upshot to this book is that the author barely escaped from Soviet Russia, and so has ZERO tolerance for oppression in any of its forms.
The History of π is a fascinating work in the sense that it provides a narrative which frames for the reader, the development of this infamous mathematical constant’s calculation.
Beckmann’s passionate political views quickly transform his attempt at a serious account in the history of science, to an ardent rant against all which he considers to be the root of societal evils.
The biggest error in Beckmann’s thesis is his attempt to draw a divisive line between those who were engaged in so called “true” science and those who flirted with the occult.
Halfway through the book, the author writes that "the digits beyond the first few decimal places [of Pi] are of no practical scientific value.
And yet I find myself continuing reading through the rest of the book of how new methods to find more decimals places were discovered.Although a little outdated in the last chapters, the underlying narrative of the book is a brief history of man, beginning in the stone age all the way through the "computer age" at the end of the decade of 1960's, with Pi as protagonist.
I had no idea the history of a transcendental number could be so politicized! Wastes an entire chapter complaining about how the Romans were a bunch of pricks that he describes as a "thug state." Good for a giggle, and some good info about pi, but he holds nothing back when it comes to his Zionist agenda.
The title is pretty self-explanatory. You want to know how pi was discovered? Read this. For some reason I'm semi-fascinated with the discovery of math... If anyone knows a good book about vectors let me know!
I'm very interesting on pi and I'm very exiting now .i want read now .thank u
This book has a lot of the history of Pi - I can't type the symbol.
I just wish I could remember all that I have read!There are some parts of this book where the math becomes too complicated for my not so mathematical mind, but the author does a pretty good job of simplifying quite a bit of it for the non-mathematician.He does often show his bias against religion - particularly Christianity - particularly Catholicism especially in a time in history when they opposed good science for no good reason.
He seems to reject Christianity as unscientific always.
Overall a good book.
It's a bit dated, especially when the author talks about "modern" attempts to calculate pi on computers and how the current record is 500,000 digits (as of 2018, 2.7 trillion digits are known).
Entire chapters are about historical periods and other breakthroughs in mathematics with a spattering of "and during this time so-and-so calculated pi to 60 digits using Archimedes' method." I actually really enjoyed all of the other history in the book, it just didn't have anything to do with pi which is odd considering that the book is A History of Pi
An interesting historyIt’s hard to imagine that anyone could spend 220 pages talking about one number. It’s even harder to imagine how otherwise sane people would spend years trying to outdo each other in the number of decimal places they could achieve in calculating pi. That being said, the book turned out to be pretty entertaining. It has some interesting historical notes on great mathematicians and scholars as well as some righteous bashing of the church, the state, and the conquerors for suppression and destruction of scientific knowledge. Sadly, that still happens. Overall, I enjoyed the book.
This is one of my all-time favorite math books because not only does Petr Beckmann give an excellent and easy to understand history of this most important number, but he has a very unique writing voice that just cracks me up.He was this cranky eastern European engineering professor and I am sure he was quite a character in real life, but that character adds just the perfect flavor to this material!
Nice book containing historical overview on how pi was computed throughout the centuries. The author includes his personal opinions on several matters which is sometimes a bit distracting but most of the time amusing addons.Especially the last chapter on what computer can and will do for society is his time far ahead.
Can’t give it a rating with six significant figures. Three is close enough, right? While I enjoyed reading the book, it veered away from the subject matter more than I would like. Some of the proofs were beyond me and might have been explained better. I still found it very interesting and learned quite a bit from it.
Interesting presentation about PI, and a devastating critique of how first Rome then the Roman Catholic Church postponed progress for nearly two millennia. Just technical enough to tell the story, an enjoyable and fast read.
Pi through the agesInteresting documentaries on the waves of authoritarianism that pervade human history. The joy of exploring “what if” wins eventually, and leaves ignorance untouched.
An informative and entertaining (in places) read. Makes you really appreciate the modern way we notate algebra and use vocabulary in math. Doesn't pull punches politically either!
Reading for pi day.
All paths lead to pi, and Beckmann is a fantastic guide.Strongly recommended for those with a curiosity for things mathematical and historical.I'll close my fanboy review by mentioning that in a footnote, Beckmann constructs a hypothetical sphere 8.8 light years in radius, fills it with bacteria, creates a new sphere by spacing every bacterium 8.8 light years from its nearest partner, and asks the reader to consider the circumference of that sphere as calculated using 100 digits of pi.
The answer, as it turns out, would not be off by a millionth of a millimeter, making calculation of thousands of digits a bit of a circular process.
Not only does the author trace pi's progress, he discusses times when pi (and by extension, math, science, and knowledge) made scant progress.
Okay, so it was published in the 70s, but regardless, the book got too preachy for me; at one point I think he asks, "How many Newtons have died in Viet Nam?" Several other jabs at Soviet labor camps are thrown in, often with limited context.
Future editions should both expand on pi's use in modern math and update (or better, eliminate) the preachy Cold War side-notes.
When my oldest daughter was accepted to the North Carolina School of Science and Math (a college level high school for the smartest and nerdiest students in North Carolina), I went with her to orientation.
Beckmann relates some fascinating and rather opinionated stories about the history of mathematics and mathematicians while crossing my eyes with mind-numbing and incomprehensible (to me) formulae explaining how pi was calculated.
Beckmann comes down very hard on the Romans, who he equates with Nazi Germany (ouch) and relates some interesting stories about Archimedes, Newton, and other mathematicians whom I in my mathematical ignorance had never heard of.
I'm enjoying this book; even with Beckmann's rants. But my problem is with his willful ignoring of facts, especially when you consider how little tolerance Beckmann has for good research. For example take this passage from the chapter Night: In 1486, Torquemada sentenced the Spanish mathematician Valmes to be burned at the stake because Valmes had claimed to have found the solution of the quartic equation. It was the will of God, maintained the Grand Inquisitor of the Holy Office of the Inquisit
I'm enjoying this book; even with Beckmann's rants.
For example take this passage from the chapter Night:
In 1486, Torquemada sentenced the Spanish mathematician Valmes to be burned at the stake because Valmes had claimed to have found the solution of the quartic equation.
It was the will of God, maintained the Grand Inquisitor of the Holy Office of the Inquisition Against Heretical Depravity, that such a solution was inaccessible to human understanding.
But if you read the endnote for this passage you find:
Beckmann rips the Roman Civilization and the Catholic Church for two full chapters for lesser scholastic violations than this.
A lot of good information, some fun facts and something about various mathematicians.
His last chapter was a bit naive even for the time, IMO.I did find he sloughed over too many details in some cases, presenting some math I don't quite remember with not enough detail to remind me.
His attempt to keep the math simple thus left a lot of leaps.
(As always with such books, I didn't bother drawing the timeline I really wanted, so perhaps I'm just not that interested in that timeline anyway.)That said, a good book for a niche market.

There are some interesting and entertaining moments (even when Bechmann rants against certain institutions and historical views)...
alas, the flow of it, especially as the history of a 'number' is practically non-existent with so much tangential material.If you want a good example of one -- Seife's _Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea_ is significantly better written and more interesting to read.I'm going to leave my rating as it is.
I did like it, but it really is closer to 2.5 than the 3, but I'll let Beckmann have rounded up number, especially since it has been more than 40 years since it was written.
The author of this text is an Electrical Engineer by trade, and this contributes to the lion's share of the comedy throughout.
Beckmann is ridiculously biased in favor of the practical application of mathematics, falling all over Archimedes in the beginning of the book and going non-stop from there.
The history of Pi is the history of humanity, and this is a good overview, touching on many of the actors who contributed to it over the centuries.
But the best part of the book is his seething hatred for tyrannical regimes.
Commentary on the Roman Empire, Muslim conquests, the Christian Church, the Soviets - all contribute hilariously to this text.
