https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1754834.Destination_Moon
No sin toda una serie de problemas de por medio, que se irán acrecentando conforme de desarrolle su soñado propósito.Ésta obra del maestro toca, cómo ya hizo con anterioridad pero en otra vertiente, el tema de los pioneros - conquistadores, el de los locos visionarios que arriesgaron sus vidas y se lanzaron al vacío (nunca mejor expresado) en búsqueda de la primera imprenta del hombre (y de un estado) en un astro intacto aparentemente.
Now rather dated, this was a classic "moon" story some 70 years back. If you read it with the time-period in mind, you will be amazed at Heinlein's forsight in predicting a nuclear-powered rocket. This is possibly the inspiration that many of the engineers working on the current project may have used to start their careers (as it was one of his early novella's and a precursor to Rocketship Gallileo).
Classic HeinleinNobody does it better. One of his best talents was writing a scientifically accurate story in a way that is still enjoyable to read. His observations on the making of the movie are excellent, bringing out the difficulties in making an accurate sci-fi movie before computers and CGI.
Alternate version of the movieDestination Moon, a movie that Heinlein helped write, was a landmark film in 1950. Special effects may have improved,but this story of the first moon landing—almost two decades before it happened—marks a science fiction classic. In this novella, Heinlein writes a slightly altered version.
Fantastic short story. Have always enjoyed a good heinlein story since I was a kid.
First published by Short Story magazine, September 1950.First collected into Three x Infinity paperback, ed. Leo Marguiles, 1971.
Kirja pandud oleks nagu jutustusena, kuid kui lugema hakata, siis valgub kogu loole näidendi lummus. Jant kolmes vaatuses. Väga selgelt ja kergelt 6-7 näitlejaga lavale pandav kosmosejant. Esimene vaatus maal, teine laevas ja kolmas kuul... Ehk mis juhtub, kui Pentagon mootori katsetamiseks luba ei anna ning kosmoselaeva peamised insenerid oma laeva kaaperdada otsustavad.
A great adventureI've seen the movie several times over the yrs but not until recently have I had the chance to read the actual book. It was very enjoyable. We did finally reach the moon some 19 yrs after the movie was made, and of course a lot was different in reality but that doesn't take away from the story any.
This is a fairly weak story (The radio play... not necessarily the movie upon which it was based.) and in the audio version that survives and has recently been published, the audio quality is pretty terrible too.
First published by Short Story magazine, September 1950.First collected into Three x Infinity paperback, ed. Leo Marguiles, 1971.
