https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34310.The_Glass_Lake
Binchy explores the roles of women in Irish society, inconstant lovers, and uses an operatic plot to hold a reader's attention.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیستم ماه جولای سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: دریاچه شیشه ای؛ نویسنده: مائیو بنچی؛ مترجم: قدسی گلریز؛ تهران، نشر روزگار، 1377؛ در 3 جلد؛ در 1268 ص؛ شابک دوره: 9646675255؛ چاپ چهارم 1379؛ چاپ دیگر (ششم) سه جلد در یک مجلد؛ تهران، روزگار، 1381؛ در 984 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان ایرلندی - مادران و دختران - قرن 20 ممترجم: محمد دانیالی؛ تهران، سمیر، 1391، در 568 ص، شابک: 9789642201891؛داستان زنی ست به نام هلن که در جوانی عاشق مردی به نام لوئیس که مردی مسئولیت ناپذیر است و حاضر به ازدواج نیست، میشود.
Lovely, heartwarming story in the usual Maeve Binchy-style. Set in the 1950s in London and Ireland, following the lives of a mother and daughter through thick and thin.
2.5/3 stars Well, this should at least serve as an admonition to all women on how a MAN should never ever be the fulcrum around which a woman's life rotates, making him the centre of her universe. The story - my first Maeve Binchy book ever - is set in the 50s and revolves around the lives of various families in the small village of Lough Glass, Ireland, during a span of about 10 years. Among this rather extensive set of characters, stars Helen McMahon alias Lena Gray, a desperate woman whose a
Among this rather extensive set of characters, stars Helen McMahon alias Lena Gray, a desperate woman whose actions, bad judgement and wrong choices in life reverberate throughout the existence of so many people, and with rather unsettling outcomes.It is basically a book which deals with the concept of MISTAKE and how your actions may or may not reflect on other people's lives and with which consequences.This, per se, is a rather interesting theme to be treated in a novel, if not for the fact the the gloomy approach and the disastrous ways in which the characters messed up their lives didn't make this book relaxing or enjoyable at any time.
This is the second Binchy book I read after her "Quentins" which turned out to be just perfect..this one is the same, perfect...good enough to make yu read two days straight to finish it..
If you skip those seemingly small bits, you will miss out on the ultimate point of the story and only see it in a shallow, maybe even dull form.Beyond the theme of choices and consequences, Binchy also explores different types of romances.
There were also the side characters who were lovely and interesting and I wanted nothing but the best for them, (view spoiler)[like Sister Madeleine and Phillip O'Brien (no matter how often he tended to stick his foot in his own mouth) and Maura Hayes and Martin McMahon and Ivy Brown (hide spoiler)].
When I read her books, I want to be Irish, own a pub, and live in a tiny town.
In typical Binchy style - we're immediately drawn into the life of a simple family in a largely nondescript - yet still engaging - town.
In this book, a mother struggles continuing life in her family and she makes a choice that changes her husband, children, and self forever.
I don't want to spoil anything.)If you're looking for a rainy day, light read that will have you contemplating how you would chose to escape your own life...dig in!
I read this many years ago, I will endeavour to read it again this year. This was a haunting tale of a woman deeply unhappy and a poor husband left to pick up the pieces for the rest of his family. One of the first Maeve's books I read. I really do enjoy re-reading these books as it brings back memories from my teenage years and it's nice to rekindle the memories of my first 'grown up' books I tackled. I love revisiting them for this reason, but mostly as I simply adore this author's work!
i have read this book more than once,it is probably my favourite.everytime i read it, i feel like i am living in this village, i'm going to school with the kids, i search for helen in the lake.
and then i somehow transfer to the big city, and i live next door to lina and lewis.
a bit self-centered or obnoxious, maybe...I feel lina as a different woman than helen, as if i am reading about two different women.
after such a wonderful and detailed description through all the rest of the book, the end was very fast and incomplete, i'd say.
Nevertheless, a great book.
At first I wasn't sure about this book. It seemed a little too trivial, but I stand corrected, because The Glass Lake has a lot more to it than meets the eye. Eerie, sometimes humorous, often gripping, this book is definitely a memorable one. :)

Maeve Binchy is a wonderful story teller. This is along complicated family tale. Her characters are so real that you can reach out and touch them. I recommend Maeve Binchy to whomever wants to be lost in a book.
1ο βιβλιο για το '18 κ μπορω να πω οτι το λατρεψα!!! ☺
This is one of my all-time favourite books - I think partly because of how it got me through what could have been an awful travel day.
I had never heard of Maeve Binchy, but it was a fat novel and I was pretty sure it was going to be a long day, as I was flying back to visit my family in northern BC, and it was one of those awful Canadian winters.
I know Kit is the heroine, but Helen is a fascinating character - a rare woman who owns her choices and (I think) in the end, would have done it all over again.
I LOVED this book. It was so engrossing and enthralling and all those over adjectives that start with e. The main character was so relatable, and I especially enjoyed her tumultuous friendship with Clio - it was so realistic.But really, I just love how Binchy writes. The way she skips from scene to scene keeps you interested.And, SUCH satisfying ending.All in all, a book I will revisit time and time again, despite its 700+ page count :)
I first read this book in the early 2000s and haven't been able to stop reading it. I read it in full at least once a year but routinely just go back to read specific chapters all the time. I find I've gotten different things out of the book each time I read it. This title will remain on my shelf for years to come.
What a story!!!!! I would like to start over and read it again!
The lives of Lena and Kit eventually collide with explosive results, leaving Kit considering hard the very nature of love.Maeve Binchy novels are a gem whenever I need to reignite my passion for reading.
That being said, The Glass Lake is a curious example - it's probably the Binchy I have read the most, and yet, after this read, I'm wondering exactly why this would be...The main reason for this is that the central premise - which I gobbled up with delight as a youngster, and found extremely credible - is actually pretty far-fetched.
Maeve Binchy has written another winner about a family in Lough Glass, Ireland. Binchy's characters are always a strong point of her novels. By the end of the book, you are believing that they are real people. Book is a bit long but the pages are flying fast as you can't get enough of the story. The ending was sad and a surprise to me. I'm looking forward to my next Binchy book. I would recommend her books to those who love to read about Ireland.
The two stars in not an indication that Ms. Binchy was a bad writer...that just is not the case.
Ms. Binchy could develop characters better than any writer of contemporary romance fiction & the way she introduced a ton of characters to the reader, and keep them all straight is pure alchemy.
No, I just plain did not care for any of the characters in this entire 700 page novel.
I especially detested the weak & pathetic main female protagonist.
The story line just seemed to plod along & I was happy to finally read the final page of this most depressing book.
What a long and winding road! The people were better than the typical Binchy characters, and the fights and friendship between Clio and Kit was authentic indeed. Dear Lena. Awful Louis. And a moral: never choose a lover above your children...
Most satisfying 1950s Irish mother/daughter melodrama
This book is about different types of people loving others.
Then, her daughter Kit fell in love with Stevie, who appeared to be similar to Louis.
He had many affairs before he ended up with Kit, but, he was not like Louis which made for an interesting comparison.
She had an interesting way of talking so as to give good advice yet not reveal secrets from others.Even though Lena was a doormat to Louis, I loved seeing her competent, smart business woman side.
It's set in a small town in Ireland in the 1950s, where Helen MacMahon's daughter Kit struggles with Helen's decision to marry the safe-and-secure man she doesn't love (Kit's father) and what happens when Helen decides that safe decision is killing her spirit.
(I'm trying not to spoil!) We then get to watch Kit grow up, move on, fall in love, struggle with how to stay friends with someone she's outgrown, come to terms with family secrets, as well as grapple with the changing role of women in Irish society and the social ferment of the '60s.
Full Disclosure: Maeve Binchy is my absolute favorite writer.
I own every single one of her books and have read them multiple times.
The Glass Lake is among my top three favorites from her.
I can't remember how many times I've read it, but it's one of my go to books when I feel like I need a comfort read.
The blurb is very vague, but the story is so rich, you just have to read it.
If you aren't familiar with Maeve Binchy's writing, you need to experience it.
For me, her books are like a warm fuzzy blanket on a cold rainy day.
This book had some parts that semmed to drag on & was a bit predictable, which is why I only gave it 4 stars.
Once I got passed the slow beginning, it pulled me in & I didn't want to put it down.
In my own personal prejudices, I never thought I could feel for a mother who abandons her children.
But this book allowed me to not only feel for her character but to love her & abandon my judgements against her (& others who I've known to make these kinds of choices).
It's a great book & I would recommend it to anyone!
WOW! ok so I really liked the beginning of this book. it was haunting & mysterious. and then i HATED one of the main characters. and i couldn't get over what an idiot she was. but i finished it. and it was only ok. and i don't recommend it to anyone! the only thing i liked about this book is that this horrible woman leaves her husband & family to be with another man... and it all falls apart with man #2. basically she gets what she deserves and regrets being an idiot. that was a TINY bit satisfying.
listened to this one on audio–21 discs!
read by barbara caruso who is a masterful narrator, i was able to stick with this story until the end, but at about disc 9 i was wondering what the heck else the story was going to be about and… it kept going!
by the end, i cared deeply for the main characters and was sad to see the story end.
a story of serious miscommunications with dire, life-changing results.
i liked it less than scarlet feather, but i think that was because s.f. had food in it.
i do like food stories.
I loved her style. It felt like a lovely conversation with a good story teller all the way through and you just wanted to insert yourself into the book and become friends with all the characters. So enjoyable.
Oh what a tangled web we weave, when at first we try to deceive..................Lots of interesting interconnecting stories of a town told over several years. - Will read more from this author.
2.5/5 This was my summer book club book. I didn't love this story, or hate this story. I am indifferent, I know that I would have never picked it up if it hadn't been one of my book club reads. I found it hard to get into at first which made me want to give up but once I got into it, it wasn't that bad.
