https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278501.The_Mystery_of_the_Chinese_Junk
Not as good as some of the others in this series.
During summer break, the Hardy Boys, Frank and Joe buy an old Chinese boat with their friends Biff, Chet, Tony and Jim Foy. As the Chinese watercraft was for sale in New York City, the boys run into some trouble after purchasing it.
The value of the boat is what throws the reader off when the title says, “ Chinese Junk.”The point of view of the book is told in third person.
This book is a great book to read because it shows how even a piece of junk like that boat the Hardy’s purchased can turn into a mystery.
The Hardy Boys return in another thrilling addition to the classic book series.
The Hardy Boys want something to do for the summer, so someone tells them about an old junk that is for sale.
They won't sell because it is turning out to be a good business for them as they boat people to and from an island to have picnics for the day.Update: Even though I didn't think that this was one of the best Hardy Boy books, and so I was going to sell this vintage book, when we took a trip this summer to the east coast we saw an island off the keys and boats had been pulled up on the beach, and my husband said that it looked like they were picnicking.
I really like this book. It involves a lot of sabotage and attacks on the Hardys. The brothers played it safe while pursuing the crooks that were trying to ruin their friends business. I really liked this book because the Hardy boys are looking for a jewel that is on their own ship that they bought. It's right under their noses but can't seem to find it. It is a race can the brothers find it before the crooks do is just the suspense that I like to read.
Dixon, Franklin W.
The reason it is so good is because the author of the book doesn't just give you the answer to the mystery he gives clues over a period of time and never really tells the answer until the end.
In the book Frank Joe and Chet, which are the main characters, want to make some money for the summer so they buy a Chinese Junk, which is a boat, to start a faerie business.
At the end of the book the detectives always solve the mystery by following the clues.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
rereading my youth... LOVED the Hardy Boys series, also Tom Swift Jr. series--which, it turns out, were mostly written by the same writer. found it fun in retro--including how the boys always did dishes for their Aunt Gertrude...
Quite mysterious and thrilling
Don't you miss the days when you could go out and buy an old Chinese junk just to make some extra money over the summer? Good story.
What I've Said Before This is the 39th book in the original Hardy Boys Mystery Series which ran from 1927 to 1979 and was, along with the Nancy Drew, Tom Swift and Bobbsey Twins series, part of the Stratemeyer Syndicate.
The present book was written by James Duncan Lawrence and published in 1960.* The series features brothers Frank and Joe Hardy, 18 and 17 years old respectively, whose father, Fenton Hardy, is a former New York City police officer and world-renowned detective.
***** The brothers, along with Chet, Tony, Biff and their “Chinese American friend” Jim Foy decide to buy a used Chinese junk a few days after school is out for the summer.
I would definitely still recommend it since it is very clean and encourages strong morals and being considerate toward others, but the older the child gets, or the more intelligent they are, the more difficult it will be for them to suspend their disbelief at how perfect the characters and world are in this book.
It will be really important to know the child so you can decide if they will be able to enjoy this book for what it is instead of criticizing it for its unrealistic interpretation of the world in comparison to what the world is like today.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
A fun read. Mystery, Chinese intrigue with good and bad guys, summer jobs, Chinese junk (type of boat), interesting characters... trying to figure out who is good or bad, theft, break-ins, solving mysteries, with the joys of discovery and dealing with disappointments.Simplistic, yes. But still a fun good read.
Abby says: I liked this book! My favourite part was when the brothers' friend Tony figured out that the answer had been right in front of them all along. I thought it was odd what the bad guy turned out to be at the end (I won't spoil it for you)! I also learned an alternative definition to the word junk thanks to this book!
When it comes to coincidences, the Hardy Boys books are full of them. Frank, Joe, and some pals purchase an old Chinese boat which happens to have connections to a case their dad is investigating? This is fun for kids who can actually follow clues and play detective in this one, where there are choices of villains rather than just spoon-fed ones.
Not THAT kind of Chinese junk...
is very interesting book..!
I read so many Hardy Boys books as a kid but this is the only one that I remember by title because I didn't understand what "junk" meant.
read when I was 10 through 13
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1988.
750L
This is the first Hardy Boys book i read and i liked it...:)
Classic Hardy Boys mystery. Sure, there are some little slips here and there that should have been done differently, but overall enjoyable.
This book is very cool! When they(Frank,Joe,Tony,and Chet)buy a chinese junk,other chinese try to get it fo them selfs.Icant wait to finish reading!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Really good book. Did not know that the Chinese had a ship called "Junk".
This represents the countless hours of hardy boys reading as I did as a kid. Fun stuff for an eight year old boy.
The boys buy a boat and attract a lot of unwanted attention.
