https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85737.Treasure
Full review with images click the link below.http://www.chromaring.com/2018/01/tre...The book starts with a historical prologue July 15th 391 AD in which Julius Venator, a Roman, along with a group of soldiers and slaves, sail in a fleet of ships ferrying the treasures from the Library of Alexandria trying to save it from Emperor Theodosius I , who had ordered to destroy the works of great minds.
While one small ship Serapis manages to get away, they never reach land and the secret of the treasure is lost.As we turn the pages plot 2 takes place and Dirk Pitt is trying to locate the sunken Russian submarine, and then helps the two damsels in distress, first he saves Lily Sharp and then Hala Kamil.
Meanwhile, Egypt and Mexico are facing internal revolutions due to weak economies, crumbling government institutions, and charismatic leaders espousing overthrowing the modern government and returning to 'the old ways.' Murder, mystery, intrigue, classic cars getting demolished, a battle-royale in an abandoned mine, adventure, and hot exotic women make this a fast read.I have always enjoyed how Clive Cussler manages to blend fiction with history, making his stories seem rooted in reality.
This book does not disappoint in terms of Clive's 'Three Muskateers.'(view spoiler)[ Another thing I 'liked' was that the deaths of the villains did not seem as 'revenge-motivated' as have the deaths of villains in other stories [some by Dirk's own hands].
When I need a mental vacation like to travel with Dirk Pitt.
My most recent read was Treasure (1988).Treasure has all the usual adventure story stuff: buried treasure, sunken treasure, espionage, kidnappings, car chases, and so forth.
In the Dirk Pitt novels there are typically two different plots: the A plot being whatever word crisis NUMA somehow has to fix and the B plot where NUMA is actually looking for treasure and basically doing its real job.
I don't like going into the adventure knowing more than the NUMA crew.
So if you're looking for a serious adventure story, look elsewhere.
Dirk Pitt, ancient artifact discoverer extraordinaire is searching an ancient deepsea wreck for info about the Library of Alexandria when he finds himself drawn into a terrorist plot set on international unrest and upheaval in Egypt and Mexico.
On that note I do have one more Clive Cussler/Dirk Pitt book in my library called ”Inca Gold” that I am very tempted to read and then dispose of.
I don’t think it’s too much to ask that readers are treated with a degree of intelligence by the author and I felt that while the story contained political intrigue, the story itself was dumbed down.The sad part is I only picked up this book because it mentioned discovering the lost Library of Alexandria on the dust jacket.
My least favorite of Clive Cussler's books so far.
There is essentially two stories contained in the novel, and they are not very well connected.
He starts off with one story about lost treasure, then transfers almost totally to another story about terrorists which takes up the bulk of the novel, stays with that until it is over, and then finally switches back to the original story about the treasure for the last few chapters.
The terrorist story really had nothing at all to do with the treasure.
Cussler is usually a great novelist.
This is the first time I have come away disappointed.
This is the same comment for all the Dirk Pitt books:Great set of books, I had to stagger these books into my reading rotation since they are so similar. Dirk Series Book in less then 50 words.(introduction to bad guy, introduction to hot chick, introduction to Dirk, Dirk gets in impossible dangerous situations to stop the bad guy, Dirk wins, Dirk gets the hot chick.)
Dirk does it again. Saves people, finds treasure and gets the girl.
The library of Alexandria, Egyptian and Mexican take -overs Arctic explorers are the ingredients to make this a good story. Again Cussler has anticipated current times with a rush of people from Mexico invading the southern USA, is this shades of Trump? Otherwise more of the same quasi death scenes turned into formidable escapes.

Cussler is an author that brings the reader into his novels.
The details were just enough to make me see everything.
Dirk Pitt is the character that many readers have told me that TR Bare in my own novel "Mysterious Lady" is like, even though I wrote the novel before reading any of Cussler's books.
I feel honored for my style of writing to be considered in the same class.
This is an excellent read and I hope you take the time to read it and "Mysterious Lady" and decide for yourself if it is in the same style.
I was looking for something on the shelves at the family Cottage in Michigan that I had not read. This was my first Cussler. I held my attention while providing a little historical context about the mythical Library at Alexandria. The situations are pretty silly. Hero Dirk Pitts can do and save anything and anyone.
Another great Dirk Pitt adventure! Pitt is tasked with finding the lost Library of Alexandria, saving the Egyptian and Mexican leaders from terrorists, and preventing an invasion of the United States! Of course he does it all while getting the girl and being a badass! Can't wait to get to the next one!
Pretty indistinguishable from any other Dirk Pitt novel. Moves at a good pace, with a decent set of villains, and some tense moments.Good book to read when you just want to switch off for a bit and relax with a good adventure story.
Tutto parte da una moneta antica...
Good, but just didn't do it for me like some of the earlier and later volumes. Not everyone can be hit out of the park, but this is still a fun summer read.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[The "conversation" between Dirk and the Special Ops group seemed a bit forced this time around, but it would be easy to see such a conversation taking place.
(hide spoiler)]There are some interesting comments/observations made throughout the course of the book(view spoiler)[, such as about how it is okay for terrorists to kill large numbers of people and they will only receive a few years in prison, but if the United States were to assassinate somebody it would cause global outrage and censure.
I think I may officially be done with Clive Cussler.
I really enjoy stories like his with the mix of historical mystery and completely unrealistic modern action, but I just can't sit through the writing anymore.
I thought it was getting better as the books progressed and had hope that Mr. Cussler would catch up with the real world (even from 20 years ago) but this was a serious throwback to some very old school thinking that just pulled me right out of the story and made me realize that I can do better.I enjoy these stories very much but hopefully I can find a better author to get them from.
An absolute thriller...Loved the funny scenes in this book..
(especially- 'fly me to the moon' dialogue by Dirk Pitt).I wanted to give it 5 stars.
However, I find the startings of Clive cussler's books extremely boring and slow so I will not give it full 5 stars.Still, I understand that it is the writing style of the author and don't expect any chanes in it.
It's just that I don't exactly enjoy reading them and have to read them forcefully for the sake of understanding the story.Whatsoever, it is a completely fantabulous thrill ride once the main adventures and exploits of Dirk Pitt start.Thank you Clive Cussler for this entertaining read...
A real page turner. I have several of his books and find that the ones with Dirk Pitt are my favorites. A criminal empire attempting to take over countries is thwarted by Pitt and company. The discovery of a sunken ancient vessel leads to the discovery of artifacts from the library of Alexandria. Alas , if only this was not fiction.
Another exciting and deeply researched story.I chose this book to take on holiday. It was a real page-Turner and I felt gripped by the twin stories right until the end.As ever, the research that went into the book was incredibly detailed and made it even more enjoyable.Another cracking book from Clive Cussler
I always love how Cussler takes a historical fact and intertwines that fact into a fictional narrative. Often I find myself wanting to research said historical fact as well to see what the real life story is!
A disappointment from Clive Cussler.
This is the 9th in the Dirk Pitt stories and it shows - by being formulaic and unrealistic.
I am a great fan of Cussler but here we have too many plots intertwined to make an exciting read.
The result is very artificial and somewhat confusing linking between them, and a lot of background waffle to establish their presence.
And another thing: Cussler's books are normally almost believable (if one squints a bit) but this is simply too much.
It veers into the realms of complete fantasy, which is not what Cussler's Pitt is about.
So, bummer Clive.
My fav of all the Dirk Pitt adventures its got everything you want in an adventure/thriller, far fetched situations ,great bad guys and a couple of heroes that if you've read other Pitt adventure's you'll lap this up and want more and more .
ขึนตนมาไดนาตืนเตนดวยเรืองขุมทรัพยหอสมุดอเลกซานเดรีย เรืออับปางยุคโรมัน แตมาดรอปชวงกลางเลมทีไปเปนแอคชันไลลากับตัวผูรายทีดูจืดๆ ไปหนอย กอนจะเหลือไมกีบทสุดทายถึงไดวกกลับมาเรืองขุมทรัพยโบราณอีกครัง
ขึ้นต้นมาได้น่าตื่นเต้นด้วยเรื่องขุมทรัพย์หอสมุดอเล็กซานเดรีย เรืออับปางยุคโรมัน แต่มาดรอปช่วงกลางเล่มที่ไปเป็นแอคชั่นไลล่ากับตัวผู้ร้ายที่ดูจืดๆ ไปหน่อย ก่อนจะเหลือไม่กี่บทสุดท้ายถึงได้วกกลับมาเรื่องขุมทรัพย์โบราณอีกครั้ง
Eindelijk weer eens een Clive Cussler boek dat ik echt kon waarderen. Een welkome verandering tussen de andere Dirk Pitt boeken. Zeker de moeite van het lezen waard. De bibliotheek van Alexandrie, mogelijke coups in Mexico en Egypte. En Dirk Pitt met zijn team redt het weer allemaal.
As a reader wanting an easy genre read which included the Library of Alexandria this did the job. Its adventure, so very boy and gung ho but I was in the nood so no complaints. I got what I wanted and no more than I deserved.
Yet another good book by Clive Cussler. I first read this some time ago in paperback before I had a kindle. It was good to read it again and enjoy Dirk Pitts adventures once more.Excellent book. Definitely a must read.
Other than the annoying switch to the metric system in Cussler's writing, Treasure is an adventure set at a good pace while Dirk Pitt travels from Greenland to the Antarctic and everywhere in between blending ancient history with modern intrigue.
I really enjoyed this book. A nice change to some others in the Pitt series, but still pure escapism. For some reason Dirk Pitt reminds me of Nathan Drake in this book, or vise versa given Pitt has been around a few decades longer. Worth the read.
As always interesting and entertaining. One thing I enjoy more about the new books is Pitt isn’t such a womanizer. I prefer him to be honorable and monogamous. Looking forward to many more by this author.
