https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181886.Ancestors_of_Avalon
This book is loosely based on her mythology, but since Marion died shortly after "Mists of Avalon" was published, most of the other books attributed to her were written by Diana Paxson.
Diana is an OK writer, but it isn't up to the quality of Marion, so that said, this book provides some backstory to "Mists of Avalon".
It supposes that the people who founded the mythological Avalon came from world of Atlantis; that they escaped as Atlantis was falling into the sea.
It also supposes that the 2 main characters, Micael and Tiriki are the former lives of Merlin and Morgaine in the Camelot era.
There was absolutely nothing good about this book that I could find. Paxson's link-up of MZB's Atlantis and Avalon series was embarrassingly bad. Bad writing, bad characterization, and to top it off, the text of the edition I read was full of errors! Maybe if someone had bothered to edit this, he or she would have realized how bad it was before it was too late. Ouch! Diana Paxson, please leave Avalon alone! It's a damn shame how bad this is compared to MZB's masterpiece, The Mists of Avalon.
Though I'm impressed that Paxson utilized Zimmer Bradley's vision for this title, it is the weakest of the series.
I was so disappointed because the main love story (Tiriki and Micail) was weak.
The underlying female strength and spirituality that is usually in the Avalon books is missing.
Even the description of place and landscape that I've loved so much in these novels seems to not be present.
Paxson did do a great job with the other post-Mists of Avalon titles (Lady of Avalon, etc.) however and so do read those!
I'm over trying to recreate my Mists of Avalon experience........it is impossible.
The story begins with the actions that are taken when the on-coming and the start of Ahtarrath is falling into the sea and how the people prepare and strive to survive the horror and escape upon ships that will take them to a new land where a prophecy is to be fullfilled.Without giving the story away - I will tell you that some of the characters from the first book make it to the new land/world.
I think now that what we are meant to establish is a tradition-" "A tradition," said Tiriki, completing his thought,"in which the wisdom of the Temple of Light-and it is great, though we have given you little reason to think so until now- is joined with the earth power of those who live in this land."

This is the first book written by Diana Paxson that I have read.
The rest of the book could be condensed down to about a chapter or two, but then we wouldn't have a tome, would we?
Just a precursor of a script for film or TV, either of which this book lends itself far more than to the written word.
But given how much I loved "Mists of Avalon" when I read it 30 some years ago, I intend to slog through the rest of the prequels Paxson wrote.
I like to find authors who lure me with every single word.
PaxsonDie Ahnen von Avalon berichtet von den Ursprüngen des magischen Ortes aus Marion Zimmer Bradleys größtem und bekanntestem Roman, Die Nebel von Avalon.
Vor langer Zeit haben die Atlanter eine Kraft freigesetzt, die ihnen nun zum Verhängnis wird.Tiriki und Micail, die einander liebenden Hohepriester der Insel Ahtarrath, werden auf der Flucht aus ihrer im Meer versinkenden Heimat getrennt.
Doch welche Rolle spielt dabei der Omphalos, jener magische Kristall, den die Atlanter aus ihrer Heimat mitgebracht haben und dessen große Macht womöglich auch eine ungeahnte Gefahr darstellt?Aus den Aufzeichnungen der verstorbenen Marion Zimmer Bradley hat Diane L.
Not having read any of the other books in this series Icannot compare Diana to Marion.
So my rating is on the story alone which I thought was okay.
I feel that the characters were kinda dull..
Mikhail made me mad and it seems the end was wrapped up in a page or two.
I think this could have been a novelette and saved much of the confusion on the characters that didnt matter so much to the story like cardboard stand ups..
My Mom loved Marion and her series so with this book out of the way I’m curious to how Mists of Avalon will be 🤞😻
Turns out this was pretty flat, with boring plot and boring characters and boring writing. But, it also turns out that at the end of the day my favorite thing to read is trashy fantasy. So I read it! 😂
Wait, what just happened?!On this second read, the bulk of the book at least made a little more sense, and the characters -- at least those at the Tor -- felt a little more fleshed out.
Micail just sits around letting things happen around him.Tiriki was a little more interesting to me, and though she started out as pathetic as I remembered, she grew over the course of the book.
I do wish more time had been spent on developing the marsh people, especially as their descendants have some of the same names in other books in the series.
I would have liked to see it merge with the Atlantean knowledge a bit more fully, not just have it be so eventually without any real description.
At first I wasn't sure I liked Tiriki.
Micail I don't think I really liked.
He did redeem himself a bit at the end, but by then I think it was too late.
I don't think I would have chosen him to be Merlin if there was someone else around.
I think this one had its flaws, but overall it was still a good addition to the Avalon series Paxson has continued since Marion Zimmer Bradley's death.
MISTS OF AVALON, despite being totally bogus in its 'historical' aspects (guess what?
Gee, heck, I guess those dumb old Britons were nothing but stupid savages who couldn't figure out how to raise a monument on their own and needed some outsider to help them along (this goes right in with the old antiquarians believing that Romans, Danes, and Greeks had a hand in the building of Stonehenge--all wrong of course.) I know this is a fantasy novel, and I love fantasy, but whereas MISTs seemed firmly in the historical/fantasy genre, this was dipping over into pure fantasy and not working.
"Mas lembre-se: o enigma do destino é que continuamente escolhemos o castigo que merecemos. E, de maneira geral, não é o que pensamos estar escolhendo na ocasião."
Irgendwie irritierend, wenn man bedenkt, dass es gar nicht von Marion Zimmer Bradley ist und auch ansonsten in der Reihenfolge der Bände keinen logischen Sinn macht, es als erstes zu lesen.
Andererseits begann damit meine Faszination für MZB, wegen der ich zu Darkover fand, und das ist gut so.Es geht mit Tiriki und Micail weiter und einigen anderen Randcharakteren aus Atlantis, die hier wieder auftauchen.
Die Ahnen sind leichter zu lesen als noch "Das Licht von Atlantis", aber ich weiß nicht, ob das an Paxson oder dem Verlag oder der Ausgabe liegt, wo einfach mehr Platz zwischen den Zeilen gelassen wird als in den älteren anderen Bänden.

Me leí esta novela porque andaba buscando algo nuevo de Marion Zimer Bradley, pero no tenían nada en la biblioteca así que me recomendaron esta, porque trata de la mitología y es como una historia en paralelo al mundo de "Las nieblas de Avalon" que me había gustado tanto. La verdad es que escribe muy bien, recoge perfectamente la ambientación tan especial de la historia original, y me supo a poco. Por eso la recomiendo.
Bronze Age Awesomeness Great book that teases fans of Avalon & Atlantis, myth & anthropology, culture & fantasy. A competent mythologizing of the movement of peoples in the ancient Mediterranean.
Sadly this did not catch the writing of Marion Zimmer Bradley. the novel did not have the interesting characters or a good plot , and this was a shame as the premise of the legend of Atlantis could of been so promising.
Interesting story. Easier to listen to then the previous book in the series.
Lettura tranquilla, forse troppo...l'ho trovato molto più lento rispetto ai precedenti, mi sarei aspettata più azione, più imprevisti
Good, in the same vein as the Fall of Atlantis, but it did not have quite as much punch as MZB's original work
This was another great book with great characters and story!
I have really enjoyed this book. It was very interesting to see the migration and settlement into ancient Britain. I think this one is one of my favourites from the Avalon trilogy.
If you're start this novel by hoping to recapture the magic you felt when reading 'The Mists of Avalon' you will be sorely disappointed.While TMOA was not necessarily a plot-strong novel, this one is a disaster from a plot point of view. Oh, but you love the characters and/or the setting? Another mess.Maybe more Avalon lore, or inside information, given that this is one of countless prequels? Maybe, but only if you can bear the previously mentioned fatal flaws...
Once they've landed, they work to build again and restart their temples and spiritual lives, both with and without the people who already live in those lands, which provides much of the conflict of the story.The main characters are Tiriki and Micail, a priestess and royal priest who are mated and in love, and they are separated onto different ships in the confusion and each believes the other is lost for several years.
“Marion Zimmer Bradley’s beloved Avalon saga continues with the dramatic story of the ancestors of Avalon, from their life on the doomed island of Atlantis to their escape to the mist-shrouded isle of Britain.”This book made me realize there is ALOT I don’t know about Marion Zimmer Bradley’s writing.
Now I was told by friend who has read the whole of Mists that Atlantis is mentioned, but I never got the far I suppose because I didn’t know there was any connection between Atlantis and Arthurian legend.And since I don’t discover new things like this often, I had to read it to see what it was about.In the description of the book it says the story focuses on two main characters.
Quite Grecian and sunny, apparently; and not only that, but a place for refugees from an even more ancient land that sank below the sea, who carried their esoteric secrets to Atlantis.
An area of ignorance I shall have to rectify via research.)What is clear, however, is that Ancestors of Avalon infers that the refugees from the Isle of Atlantis built not only Stonehenge, but the spiral pathway surrounding the Tor in Glastonbury and, apparently, some temples there: one for men and one for women.
Mi ha molto affascinato la capacità dei maghi nell'usare la telecinesi con l'ausilio del canto, è qualcosa da approfondire.Sto divagando, perdonatemi è mezzanotte e sono esausto, questa recensione non sarà tanto oggettiva.Questo libro ci fa capire che, neanche i maghi sono perfetti, a volte l'esatto contrario, che l'amore se vero può superare mille avversità e che uomini accecati dal potere (magico, politico, ecc.) ci sono sempre stati e ci saranno sempre e che il cambiamento fa bene, restare ancorati al passato è insano controproducente.Un'ultima cosa che ho notato a malincuore è la differenza tra allora e oggi, non siamo legati alla terra come loro, non sentiamo l'energia della natura (o almeno non tutti), io stesso mi ritrovo costretto a dover poggiare la mano o il piede nudo sul terreno...
And along with the great island nation, half of the people I bothered memorizing names of, sank into the ocean.Now that I'm finished complaining, I have to admit that I did love this book.
It was a great addition to The Mists of Avalon series that I fell in love with so many years ago.
And as with every other book in the series, fate and Karma were way more important and central to the plot than the love story.
One major complaint (and one maybe someone can direct me to the answer to) was that I never quite figured out the back story of the Omphalos Stone.
