https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3973.Ilium
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
“If the good people at Locus share my sensibilities regarding Señor Simmons,” I thought to myself, “then perhaps I’ll share theirs regarding other books.” Just like that, the decision was made and I committed myself to reading every winner of the Locus Sci-Fi award – a reading list that has taken me best part of two years to complete.My introduction to 
were all good reads and I’ve got 
It’s such a blatant contradiction: the focus on female physical attractiveness is so pervasive that the women's sexual thoughts are presented in terms of what their own physical bodies look like.We get an insight into his desires, which might actually have contributed something to his character, and neither are we allowed to understand what draws her to him--the description keeps turning back to her breasts and skin and hair, so that the consummation ends up feeling less like personal, carnal fulfillment and more like smacking two dolls together--except the child has only bothered to undress Barbie.Then we get to the scene that convinced me to give up on this book entirely:Our mooky, bookish hero has been led around by the nose for a few hundred pages, thrown into the plot without any choice in the matter and maneuvered from one scene to the next by forces beyond his comprehension--until finally, he starts to see that unless he changes his current course, it’s not going to end well for him.
Dan Simmons is a mad genius.Shakespeare-quoting humanoid robots, Greek Gods, post-humans, and old-style humans somehow make the craziest awesome story imaginable.Ilium is a story told through essentially three unrelated viewpoints.
Hockenberry is called a "Scholic," a human from our the 20th century (our time) who was rebirthed in a future where Homer's Trojan War is being fought.
It's also impressive how much research went into it, though that's only an assumption since my knowledge of the Trojan War is essentially from the movie, Troy (but I have read the Odyssey!).The second viewpoint is the humans, mainly Daemon.
I've no doubt the world-building is complex and thought-out, but nothing is explicitly explained and the reader is supposed to glean all the information from the story itself as it unfolds; normally I would love this, but in this instance, at page 100 I still have no idea what's going on and this disturbs me, because I feel that I can't enjoy the story if I don't understand what's happening and who these people are.
As I said, the writing won me over in a split second, and I think that further in the book things should work better, and therefore I could enjoy it more.
One of the words in this phrase struggles and strains against the other two like an 18-month old who doesn't want to be picked up.
Rarely, very rarely, O Muse, an author has the incredible imagination, literary style and guts to weave together a story with just the right mix of literary competence, adventure, science and kickassedness to balance needed to sustain the phrase.
Dan Simmons did it with Hyperion with inhuman aplomb.And yes, he does it again with Ilium.
While Hyperion gave us a structure loosely based on the classic Chauceresque frame story, Ilium is straight up Homeric Trojan War. On Mars.
Set in a very distant future, long after both AI and posthumans have merged, this novel contains three main storylines, all of which ventually intersect.
First, there's a group of languid, pleasure-seeking old-style humans living on old earth, all their needs taken care of by mechanical servitors left for them, presumably, by the posthumans.
A small group of old-style humans decides to find out what's really going on in those orbital rings.
His novel bristles with the up-to-the-minute hard sf concerns about posthumanism, quantum science, AI and so on.
Update: After thinking about the book for three weeks and comparing it with the other books read and ratings given this month AND despite my misgivings about the beginning and not really liking the parts about the Greeks all that much, I decided to upgrade the rating to a full five stars.
The scope of the book was just so great, it really deserves the highest rating.*~*~*~*I did not enjoy the first 50 pages or so.
Good, in the end.
I might read the next book, Olympos, eventually.
I am a little scared it might not be as good.
My review of Ilium in a nutshell: “I liked it?”AMBISHUN: DAN SIMMONS HAZ IT.
I’m not sure if it is possible to be too ambitious when creating a plot for a novel, but Dan Simmons seems to be on a mission to find out.
When it’s time for Simmons to begin a new novel, I picture something like this:Dan Simmons is smoking a pipe (made from the bones of an aurochs), deep in the bowels of Stately Simmons Manor.
He must write a novel about the Trojan war!
How does Dan Simmons make his version stand out?
I swear if I didn't know better I'd say this book was written on a dare.
Did you want to read a book about Greek mythology?
How about a story about the retelling of The Iliad?
Complete with Greek Gods and a 21st century scholar roaming around as a slave trying to change history?
A dying human race with bored teenagers looking for excitement, eternal life and a chance to catch a glimpse of the post humans.
An orbital ring that supposedly houses the "post humans" but is really a house of horrors run by characters from Shakespeare's The Tempest.
and that there are Morlocks.Ilium is so rich in world-building and has such a tangled plot that there were occasional bits that lost me — I am still not sure of the role of Caliban, the Little Green Men are just strange, and we don't yet have an answer to the question of why super-advanced godlike beings have resurrected the entire cast of the Iliad on a terraformed Mars.
Masterly far-future sci-fi epicness from Dan Simmons.
Thousands of years into Earth's future the human population has stagnated into a contented form of indulgent immortality; no-one dies and no-one goes hungry, but also no-one really does anything more interesting than take part in the occasional sex party or get eaten by a cloned Allosaur.
Into this heady mix come two highly evolved 'Morivek', sentient descendants of robotic probes to the outer planets of the solar system grown curious about the fate of their human progenitors.
Simmons mixes Greek myth and Shakespeare into a complex and often demanding story that nevertheless rewards the reader's commitment.
HECK. That was intense.
It's a great book and I loved reading it (indeed, this was the second time I read it and I think I enjoyed it more the second time).
It's rare to find a book tries this and does it well, and Ilium does it well.
The main hook of Ilium is that it's a science fiction book set in the Trojan war of Homer's Iliad.
And this all contributes to a fine and wonderful story, but it's also Ilium's downfall.
But that was rare and for the most part I didn't notice the language at all.So I loved the book, but it's ever-so-slighty flawed.

The funny thing is Simmons's "Ilium" is a sci-fi epic ABOUT one of the greatest epics of all time, Homer's "The Iliad".
The book is hard to describe, but here goes my attempt at explaining it: In the distant future (it is very unclear how distant), the planet Mars has been taken over by the Greek gods.
Strangely enough, 20th-century college professor Thomas Hockenberry has also been resurrected (along with other scholars) to report to the gods on how accurately the participants of this Martian re-creation are adhering to the original.
Nominated for a Hugo, "Ilium" is the first of a series, continued in the second book "Olympos".
The Iliad serves as the starting point here ("Sing, O Muse, of the rage of Achilles..."), and from there Dan Simmons proceeds to amaze you with some of the most literate science fiction you'll ever read.
The end of Ilium is a soft stop, there is some closure but it leaves much open for the next book Olympos.
The science fiction is the good stuff that sci-fi fans want and need.
The literature references are numerous and impressive.
You don't have to get all the references to make this book enjoyable; but getting some of them will make you feel quite well read.
Every moment I normally would pick up a book to read a little I would pick up this, and every time I did not look forward to it.It baffles me; I could have sworn that I enjoyed Hyperion and that it was well-written, could I have been so wrong?
If Jason (who was a total douche) wanted to love and leave women then he could damn well do it without the writer telling us what a dick he was, all of the characters here are colored by perspectives I don't care about and find rather frustrating.Ultimately, it felt as if Simmons wanted to show off what he had studied, not a story or characters or any of the things that I tend to like in a book.
Hands down the best scifi that I’ve read in the last ten years. This was the first time that I’d read Dan Simmons and I was floored by the depth of his characters, the complexity of his plot, and the intricate and fascinating world(s) he created. I personally liked the feeling over never really knowing more than any of the characters. I enjoyed the mystery of being on level with the characters, unsure of what would come next. Nothing about this is a light read. The book treats you like an adult
This was the first time that I’d read Dan Simmons and I was floored by the depth of his characters, the complexity of his plot, and the intricate and fascinating world(s) he created.
I personally liked the feeling over never really knowing more than any of the characters.
I enjoyed the mystery of being on level with the characters, unsure of what would come next.
I’m also ecstatic to see a return of “monsters.” I’ve been so sick of reading about the cliché evil human, terrible bad person, delighting in torture, etc that all modern authors seem to use as the arch villain.
In spite of the violent content, I really like Dan Simmons' Hyperion and its sequel.
Second, some seriously unbelievable things happen several times.
You could feel the author doing this over and over.Proof positive for this is that, after seven hundred and twenty-five pages of reading, you are just now STARTING a major conflict and many things are as yet unexplained and unresolved.
The sequel takes you there, if you have the staying power.I made it through the first one, but even though I bought the second one inexpensively at the same time as I got the first, I won't be reading it.
Just like Hyperion you're thrown into the middle of complex plot with no point of reference.
There's unfamiliar words, odd sounding places and the live battle of Troy being overseen by a 21st Century teacher.
Having prior knowledge of said battle isn't really a requirement.
My only insight was the underrated Brad Pitt film, which did me just fine.
(yes, i said underrated.
I loved it!)It took around 300-350 pages until i finally started to get into this book.
I read the last 240 pages in one day, which i rarely do.Will definitely read Olympos.
Ilium defies description. It's epic sci-fi with huge twists, characters tempting fate, some fickle and furious Greek gods, Achilles and Hector from Homer's Iliad, Shakespeare-spouting robots from Jupiter, oh, and some trippy worm holes. It's good stuff. Video thoughts at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIeLP...
Dan Simmons, one of my favorite authors. This book has it all, it has the Trojans, Troy, and the Iliad. Aliens, robots, and Gods of all sizes. This book is a blast to read and will appeal to fantasy readers, science fiction readers, and even to historical fiction readers. A must read.
ZApravo puno lošije nego sam očekivao. Opet, Simmons piše kao nitko, precizan je i pjevan; ritmičan i bogat.. No, priča kao priča me malo(krc malo, puno) umorila, eto.
While their journey is peaceful, their welcome committee isn't so much, and soon Mahnmut and Orphu have to put together every creative shred of their mostly synthetic bodies to get their mission done.The third story line is earth-bound and deals with humans as we know them.
The few human exemplars still living have forgotten how to read, how to care, and how to ask questions.
I loved Mahnmut and Orphu who, probably deliberately, defy their inhuman and synthetic exterior and have the most touching, human, and incredibly caring conversations (and show the behaviour and actions to match them) in the entire book.
I thought that the best I was ever going to read from Simmons was his Hyperion series.
Simmons's knowledge of the stories, it's characters, and the way he brings them to life puts everything I have ever known or read about the Iliad to absolute shame!
I could have given Troy not another thought in my life, along with all of the gods and their convoluted family, which through Homer's account, and unless you are an enthusiastic scholar of Greek history, is pretty boring and hard to follow, especially considering the day and age we live in today.
Bláznivé, epické, vtipné, majstrovské."O hněvu Achillea, syna Péleova, zabijáka soucit neznajícího, osudem k smrti předurčeného, nám zpívej, ó Múzo."V dvojdielnom epose Ílion a Olymp, priamo odkazujúcom na Iliadu a Odyseu, sa preplieta neuveriteľný príbeh starogréckych hrdinov trójskej vojny a rozmarných bohov ("Je snadné být bohem.
Když k tomu máte to správné vybavení.") a inteligentných robotických prieskumných sond, ktoré skúmali mesiace Jupitera (keď to Simmons písal, nemohol ešte vedieť o fúre nových objavov), ale teraz sú na ceste zistiť príčiny zvýšenej kvantovej aktivity na Marse a vo voľnom čase analyzujú Shakespearovu Búrku a Prousta.
Slovom, veľmi divoký guláš, ktorý dá naplno vyniknúť autorovej vášni pre príbeh a rozprávačstvo, nespočet odkazov na vedu, históriu, filozofiu, popkultúru.
Четиринайсет години след най-популярното си произведение „Хиперион“ Дан Симънс представя на зажаднялата публика своя нов роман „Илион“, в който залага на познатата формула: паралелни и привидно несвързани сюжетни линии плюс загадки. Този път те са комбинирани с литературни анализи for Dummies, и подсладени с описания на жени, за които авторът ни съобщава, че били секси.Да кажа няколко думи за сюжета, преди да дръпна дявола за опашката и да изразя негативното си отношение към книгата.Първата и най-често цитираната сюжетна линия е симънсовата версия на „Илиадата“. В нея схоластикът Хокънбери проследява обсадата на Троя. Още...
The plot of this book is to complex to even attempt to go into but it has a dead historian recording events of the Trojan war for the gods, strange humans on a seemingly distant future earth, a machine race of explorers living on the outskirts of the solar system, and Shakespeare. Believe it or not they all go together in not such a surreal way as you might think. The characters are well rounded and evolve with the story. I don't know that it has important moral implications in the world but it was very entertaining to read.
Je crois que j'ai encore plus apprécié ce roman à la 2e lecture. Je gardais un souvenir confus de certains passages (ou certaines destinées), mais des impressions très nettes d'autres scènes, que j'ai revisitées avec plaisir.A moi Olympos maintenant !
Having recently reread the Iliad of Homer this book is a good follow-up both as a change, in genre, and as renewing my knowledge of the Iliad helps in understanding Simmons' novel.
It is the Iliad that initially provides a bearing, a compass for the reader upon which the rest of the narrative depends, and without which, it could be argued, the rest, at least during the first third or so of the book, would unravel.
It is a novel that successfully entices the reader to continue the saga in the sequel, Olympos.
