https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78983.Kane_and_Abel
She read it several years ago and remembered how good it was.
And oh how good it was.
This is a great story that is told over about 60 years from Europe to America.
Archer tells 2 parallel stories.
You feel pulled away from one story line when Archer takes you to the next.
Each character is developed from birth by the author and he does an outstanding job of taking you thru their childhood, teenage-school years and then adulthood.
The stories cross paths through-out the book and the ending is a masterful surprise.
I Remember You Like It Was Yesterday!!I have been updating my “favorites” shelf and realized my favorite book of all time is this one.
I am getting as old as dirt and read this nearly 40 years ago when my soon to be mother-in-law, rest her soul, handed me her paperback copy and told me “I loved this!,” and she thought I would too.
She was absolutely correct, and this book was the catalyst for my love of reading from that point on.I can still remember sitting on my parents couch mesmerized by the storyline.
I don't think so one can ever read a better Fiction than this.
What is it that this book didn't have?
It had thrill, mystery, drama, contemporary, historical fiction and what not.
It showed the way people live their modern day lives.
Everybody running in one direction, running after money.
Money seems to be everything to all of us.
But there's an old saying Money can't buy you happiness.
and what better example to illustrate it than this book itself.
It shows you that happiness is in small things of life such as your family, friends and all that.Just a GREAT BOOK.
Τα 5 αστέρια δεν είναι απλώς λίγα... Δε μπορώ να βρω λέξεις για να περιγράψω αυτό το αριστούργημα. Πολλές φορές σκέφτηκα πως αυτή την πένα δεν την κράτησε ανθρώπινο χέρι.Σ'ευχαριστώ Ειρήνη που μου το πρότεινες! Δεν πρόκειται για ανάγνωση αλλά για πραγματική εμπειρία ζωής. Ήμουν φτωχότερη πριν το διαβάσω..
Kane and Abel (Kane and Abel, #1), Jeffrey ArcherKane and Abel is a 1979 novel by British author Jeffrey Archer.
Released in the United Kingdom in 1979 and in the United States in February 1980, the book was an international success.
The sequel to Kane and Abel is The Prodigal Daughter, in which Florentyna Kane is the protagonist.
The book tells the stories of two men born worlds apart.
I read this book because my book club had picked it.
I think I'd read it before, when I was a lot younger.
I know that it is on my mother's bookshelf, she was very excited when she heard that the book club had chosen it.
No, it is the basic errors in the plot that tend to make you think the editor didn't really bother to read the thing.
Actually, this book annoyed me so much that I am typing this and getting angrier and angrier, remembering how bad it was.
One of the best books I've ever read. Two men from different backgrounds meet and impact on each others lives. One extremely rich and one a poor refugee from the world war travels to America to make a name for himself. Well written with interesting charaters and story. Well worth a read.
The story follows two men born on the same day in 1906.
William Kane Lowell, a Boston Brahmin and Abel Rosnovski, the illegitimate son of a Polish baron.
We follow their parallel but contrasting from boyhood.
We watch self-contained William shrewdly build on his fortune, making his own money buying and selling matchbox cars to his classmates, building a stockmarket portfolio while still a schoolboy, and struggling against his feckless stepfather.
Meanwhile Abel comes into his inheritance, learning he's his father's son even as he loses everything to the Russians in the wake of World War I and emigrating to the United States with only a few dollars coming off the boat.
Would the Able character in Jeffrey Archer’s novel suffer a cruel fate at the hands of his brother?
Driven to build their financial empires, fate soon has both characters set on a collision course that will have you humming (get ready for our big musical number)....It's a world of laughter, a world of tears.Its a world of hopes, its a world of fear.There’s so much that we share,that its time we're aware.Its a small world after all.Kane and Abel was all about the two main characters.
The entire novel was devoted to their lives and while Kane and Abel possess plenty of good traits, it was those listed above that had us clenching our fists and wanting to smite both of them.
طيب انا الطمالمترجم العبقريمخدش بالهان الاخوة الاعداء دي اسم لرواية الرائعفيودور دوستويفسكيواتعمل فيلم عبيطوكان اسخف ما يكونلو غمضت عينك واقنعت نفسك ان الموضوع مالهوش علاقةهتقراء واحدة من احلي الروايات ع الاطلاقجيفري ارتشر مبدع بشكل يخليكتحس انك مبيض محاراةوانك مكنتش بتقراء قبل كدامبدع بشكل بسيطالرواية كبيرة من حيث الحجمومش رواية مثيرة او فيها اكشن او ماشابهبس انت قاعد عاوز تعرفايه الي هيحصلهينجح في المشروع؟هيعمل ايه مع بنته؟مين اللي مول المشروع؟مين دول اصلا؟كل دا انت قاعد حاسس انك مسحورباسلوبه في الحكيوصوره وكل شئرواية عظيمة ملحميةبكل ما تحملها الكلمة:))
Archer's Criminal Trial for Perjury (from Wikipedia)"On 26 September 2000, Archer was charged with perjury and perverting the course of justice during the 1987 libel trial. The perjury trial began on 30 May 2001, a month after Monica Coghlan's death in a road traffic accident.On 19 July 2001, Archer was found guilty of perjury and perverting the course of justice at the 1987 trial. Prominent journalists admitted to having accepted Archer's 'hospitality' after he was convicted"
Câu chuyện này độc ác với tui ở một chỗ: nó không cho phép tui mổ xẻ nó. Đọc xong, gấp lại và phải giữ y nguyên đó, không được đem bất kỳ ai trong này ra phân tích và kể lể. Đó là cuộc đời, mà cuộc đời thì không nên được cho biết trước, sẽ mất đi ý nghĩa bất ngờ vốn có.Tui rất thích. Thích cực.
τωρα που διαβασα και την τελευταια του σελιδα τωρα θελω να σας πω οσα εζησα παρεα με αυτο το βιβλιο.
As I was getting through the first 30 pages or so, I was struck by the feeling I was reading this extended prologue: you don't quite have that embedded feeling with the characters, you're just getting the lay of the land; a high level telling of story.The unfortunate thing is, the entire novel seemed this way.
You know exactly what they are feeling, and why.
I need to know and care about (and sometimes hate) characters.Now, don't think that this novel is not worth reading, It certainly is.
I think this has to be the best book I have ever read.
I keep recommending it to everyone so much so a friend of mine believes I have shares in the publishing world!
I was completely surprised when I read this book.
What I thought it would be like and what was delivered far exceeded my expectations.
You end up liking both characters despite them conflicting with each other.
The ending is remarkable.
It is so engrossing that you can actually imagine and visualise what they experienced both physically and emotionally.
A true genius when it comes to story telling anyway that's for sure!
I guess many people would be ready to kill me if I say that I haven't read any of Jeffrey Archer's books yet! But hey, there was a day when I hadn't read any of Sidney Sheldon's and J.K. Rowling's.This day shall pass too. Thank you Krishna Prasanna for looming over me to get me read it soon.
اذا أردتم ان تسألوني اي روايات جيفرى آرتشر هي الافضل فلن استطيع الاجابة.. باختصار كل رواية من روايته بحد ذاتها هي عالم ممتع و مثير و مسلي لأبعد حد !
As the conflict unfolds between them for the bulk of their adult lives, both are stunned to find that the biggest price ends up being paid by those they love the most.My ThoughtsI'm going to say this upfront: I didn't like this book.
But whatever they might have seen in this book eluded me because it left me cold.My first problem is with the writing style.
Well, you should have seen it coming a mile off—I know I did and I'm terrible at that kind of stuff.But perhaps the biggest reason I didn't like the book was that I didn't like Kane or Abel.
Một trong những cuốn tiểu thuyết mà mình phải dành 1 tiếng của một ngày bận rộn ra đọc và thậm chí dậy lúc nửa đêm để đọc cho hết chương đọc dang dở.Một cái kết bản thân mình không ngờ.
Cảm giác khi đọc cuốn này mới thấy được tác giả là một người có kiến thức uyên thâm về lĩnh vực ngân hàng, chính trị, quân đội và cả ...
Chính điều đó khiến cho tác phẩm mang được nhiều màu sắc, lôi cuốn mình cho tới giây cuối cùng, dù trở ngại duy nhất khi mình đọc đó là hình thức của bản ebook tải lậu trên mạng.
An intensely played out, high-powered drama. A story of two very different men belonging to two different social classes, driven by their aspirations of success, wealth, power and a life-long feud based on inaccurate assumptions and misunderstandings. A fitting ending to boot.
As I read this book I experienced something similar; reading fever.
When I first began reading this book, I simply couldn't stop.
With an almost destructive greed I had to read on, to keep turning the thin pages - and when I finally reached the end, and there were no more pages to turn, I felt completely empty, saddened by the fact, that the book had run out of words.
It's been a long time since I've felt this way.
I may have finished reading this book; but I am not at all done with it.
i read it on my hubbys recommendation. its his favourite book out of the four books that he read in his life :p that is why i thought twice before reading it.and i LOVED it!!!! enjoyed a lot :) it made me cryit made me laugh and it made me think.
The book outlines the story of both men's lives until they converge.This was a fast paced, easy reading experience that can almost be described as the male version of chick lit.
There are feuds, power struggles politics and also some sexy sexy time in store for the main charactersI found the first half really strong, with a wonderful sense of history sewn into the story.
I also found the 30 year feud between Able and William a little thin for my liking.I have never read any books by this author and can see why he has so many happy fans.
جاء الأول إلى حياة مترفة تحفها الرفاهية و الرخاء ، أما الثاني فقد ولد في عالم الشقاء و الكفاح .
تربى الأول في حياة مرفهة عرف فيها المدارس العريقة و تعرف على التاريخ من خلال القاءة ، أما الثاني فقد نشأ في ظل الحروب و أشقاه التاريخ الذي كان جزءً منه .وليام كين سليل عائلتين عريقتين من بوسطن ، أصبح مصرفياً شهيراً ، وابيل روزنوفسكي مهاجر بولندي فقير ، كافح حتى أصبح رجل أعمال أمريكي وصاحب سلسلة فنادق شهيرة ...تصادفا في السلم والحرب ..تقاطعت طرقهما أكثر من مرة وبأكثر من طريقة ..
If I had the regular time for reading, I would not have pulled this book down till I finished it.
I can rate it among the top 5 books ever read.
The lives of two different individuals from different backgrounds and different parts of the world are shown in an awesome way.
Apart from this, the timing of most events breathes a new zeal in the theme of the book in various parts.
Apart from these, the willpower of the characters to achieve their goals and reach the highest level from birth till death are indicated in a very beautiful way.
This is the seventh Jeffrey Archer book I've read and, by far, I've realised that his stories are different combinations of the following constitutents-1.
I may have rated this book a 5 star if this was the first such book that I had read, but the similar pattern in all the previous books of Jeffrey Archer made going through this one a little difficult.Despite all of this, there's no doubting that Mr. Archer is a fantastic storyteller.
The characters are good, writing is good, and the drama is good, and all of these things merit the 3 stars that I give to this book.
The story is well written, the details are good, the two main characters and their life journeys are impressive enough to keep me reading. However, the secondary characters aren't all that great. And this story also doesn't give us any motto outside of "with enough wits and constant hard work, you can get rich in America!" and I'm like...'what?'Still...I will read more of this author's works when I have time.
Hai con người ấy bị số mệnh an bài là sẽ thù ghét nhau từ lúc còn rất trẻ, luôn tìm cách hãm hại nhau cùng tận không còn đường sống nhưng nào ai biết, một trong hai thật sự là thiên thần giang tay cứu vớt cuộc đời người còn lại...Thiết nghĩ nếu Abel nhận ra sự thật sớm hơn, thì có lẽ họ đã trở thành anh em tốt của nhau chứ chẳng phải thù địch cho đến hết đời.
Một cuốn sách quá hay, tính thời gian đọc chắc chỉ 2-3 ngày liền mạch thôi, mỗi lần cầm sách lên mìn
This came recommended to be by someone as I was looking for a "K" book to read in my quest to read books starting with every letter of the alphabet this year. Well worth it, and I was glad to know that it is part of a trilogy - I will look forward to reading the others!
