https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1503431.Man_of_the_Family
As my son says - we would rate this 10+ stars if we could. It's so hard to put into words how much this series has come to mean to us and how much of an influence Little Britches has had on my son. He has become a literary hero of sorts, to my son. We purposely took our time with this book - we just didn't want it to end. But all good things must eventually end... :) And we look forward to reading the next one in the series.
Loved it.We all felt sad as Ralph's father died at the end of Little Britches.
This story picks up as the family moves into Littleton, knowing they can't survive without a man on the ranch.
We all felt emotional at the end of the book with a strange turn of events.
Ralph Moody definitely draws us into his story.Now we have to decide whether or not to read or skip the next book, which actually covers a summer previous to the end of Man of the Family.
Mary Emma and Company picks up where Man of the Family leaves off.
And what a life he lives!
His books are full of excitement, love, hard work, family, all of the good stuff.
But then along comes a book, such as Little Britches, or Man of the Family, and that book reminds us what is really important.
I can't think of a book with a more beautiful example of children honoring their parents then in these books.
Nor can I think of parents who are more deserving of being honored.
Reading books such as these in your home will help build a strong family and bring goodness into your home.
Love love love Little Britches and the lessons in it. This book gave prompt to talk about how Ralph hid his racing earnings from his mom. I also wished that Mom would be more welcome to people helping her. It is one thing to be self-sufficient, and on other to be prideful. I LOVED the example of entrepreneurship throughout the book. A stark contrast to today when a fatherless family lives off the govt.
This glimpse into life on the Colorado frontier in the 1900s is fascinating. I love Ralph's determination, problem-solving, kindness, and humor. It's stunning to think of the responsibilities young children were given a hundred years ago compared with how little we require of our kids now.
We have loved the Little Britches series....however, I gave this book 3 stars because I'm disappointed in the choices this family makes.
Throughout the first two books I noticed they have honesty issues.
The choices the mother makes I don't agree with.
I feel she isn't an example of honesty or integrity.
All the other stories in the book are just delightful.
I especially loved the story of Mrs. Callahan.
He makes the old west come alive.
I'm astounded at all he has done in his short twelve years in this book.
It makes me want have a home on the range.
Since his dad has passed away, 12-year-old Ralph does all he can to help support his family.
His efforts are impressive, considering the amount of hard work most 12-year-olds in our era are willing to do.
I was amazed at the variety of jobs Ralph's mom took on in order to earn enough to feed her family.
This is really a great story, reminiscent of the Little House on the Prairie, but for an older audience.
This is one I hope to share with my kids when they get a little older.
August 2016 - perhaps my favorite LB book. First Reading July 2014:This is a tremendous second offering in the Little Britches series. This text is full of American perseverance spirit, classic hard work and pioneer ingenuity. By far my favorite so far in the series and something I cannot wait to share with my children. A true classic ripe with critically important life lessons.
Finished my second reading 17 March 2016. This is a thoroughly enjoyable story, and I'm having a wonderful time reading it again with my son. Full of excellent life lessons and examples of strong moral character, hard work ethics and good family relationships makes it a great book for everyone.
This is a brilliantly composed novel. The writing is absolutely glorious and the stories are masterfully enthralling and often comical. It could do without some language, but it still deserves a full five stars.
I read this to my kids in December '08 and we LOVED LOVED every second of it. We can't wait to read the next book in this series by Ralph Moody.
Love, love, love this series. They are clean and wholesome! They make me want to churn my own butter. :)
This is a great book.
Fabulous, I want to read it to my kids. Good work ethic.
But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.A Review of ‘Little Britches’ and ‘Man of the Family’ by Ralph MoodyThe Ralph Moody books are not Christian.
It is a rare church that would teach that the young (or even older) son is responsible for his widowed mother, let along a nephew.
A rare church indeed that would say that the church is responsible for the older widow who was truly without Christian family.

Once again we were spell bound by the life of Ralph Moody.
My kids loved hearing about the indomitable spirit of the Moody family.
We loved hearing how resourceful they were, the opportunities they made for themselves and how they scraped by as a family after their father died.
I love how the family is portrayed as hard working, people of faith and loving and caring for each other.
My 11 year old son especially loves this series, as he can picture himself as Ralph Moody.
He was quite distraught that the family left ranch at the end of the book.

5* We all loved the continued story of Ralph Moody.
At 11 years old, his father has died, and Ralph is the man of the family.
He is very resourceful and finds ways to make money, like making a business deal with herd drovers to guide cattle through town, then getting his schoolmates to help for a cut of the pay.
The work and business ethic of the Moody children is impressive.
They all had to work hard to stay together and make enough to live on.
This is the best kind of family read-aloud book - a historical adventure story, fine morals to inspire, and an endearing boy to love.
Ralph is now man of the house since his father died.
In a new town, the Moody family try to start a new life.
No more father, no more horses, and no more round ups.
Pick up odds and ends jobs to stay a float while keep faith, go to school, and trying to adjust to no father.
Ralph has new responsibilities as the man of the family.I rate this a 4 out of 5 stars because it got a bit depressing since his father died and there were so many ups and downs.
Man of the Family by Ralph Moody relates the story of a 12 year old boy, living with his family in 1910 and his experiences as he provides for his mother and siblings.
And the boy is put in the position to provide for the family.
The book is a great visual of rural America in the early 20th century.
The protagonist is most ingenious as he figures out ways to earn a living.
I liked the story and I liked how descriptive Moody is as he describes the farm and family.
This is a fun little book.
I thought it took about half way through the first book for the author to find his rhythm and this one really picks up well and is much more interesting a read throughout. Now Little Britches is on the lam, which is a complete shocker. Why is he on the lam? Well you'll have to read the book, and I'll have to get on to book 3 to see how this turns out.
This book was just as good as the first, which is difficult to find. I enjoyed reading this book to my kids. There are many great life lessons to learn. For one thing, just because something is difficult, does not mean that it is not worth it.
Again, a solid follow up of the first book. I’m really enjoying the life principles taught and even the ending conundrum, where the decision to hold to principle leads to a tough decision. Highly recommend this series.
This reminds me of reading Anne of Green Gables. It has that positive feel, full of values, hard work, and strong morals. One big difference is that this is a biography of the author's growing up years. I am looking forward to the next book
I love, love, love Little Britches. There are so many take aways and life lessons. I keep thinking about the boy in the story and my boys and I want them all to become such great men! Do not miss these books - you will come away better people.
I need to own this series. I love Moody's story telling. I ought to research whether this is his family's story. I will read this series with my children.
Love these books.
Engaging StoryRalph Moody has a way of painting the scenes as if you were watching. The characters are realistic and the life takes slight turns just like life.
My family is enjoying this series immensely. There is something for everyone in the family to enjoy and learn. Ralph Moody’s stories are timeless!
