https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33809.Word_of_Honor
Nelson DeMille tends to produce long books (this one is nearly 900 pages) and that can feel a little intimidating.
Tyson is named as the officer leading the party who committed the act.Much time is spent in explaining the legal position concerning civilians who once served in the army and what legal remedies are available to address alleged war crimes long after the event.
But the major focus is on the mental impacts on Tyson as he recalls the event and struggles with his own feelings about it as well as the growing pressures on him resulting from the disclosure.
Ben Tyson thought that Viet Nam and all it's death and destruction was left far behind.
He did his time and managed to come home in one piece.
And then it all comes tumbling down around him.
And the book points the finger at Ben Tyson and the squad he led.
Everything and everyone is painted in varying shades of gray.That was the Viet Nam war.Right and wrong comingled every second of every day we were there.
The author does a great job shining a light in the dark corners of those minds that fought and led the Viet Nam war.
Everyone has their secrets and I have a better understanding of the time and the place and the grisly effects of war on youth and humanity as a whole.
Before reading this book, sadly, most of my knowledge of Vietnam has come from Forrest Gump - no kidding.
I am really into history, but this was just a war era I didn't have prior exposure to and I am glad I read this and know more.
This book is provacative, a thrilling page-turner, completely twisted, and I honestly didn't know what to expect for the outcome until the final page.
I've been a HUGE FAN of Nelson DeMille and his books since being introduced to the John Corey series, and since reading those I've read his stand-alones, and I think Word of Honor is his BEST one YET!!!
By the end I was physically drained, HAHA!Word of Honor introduces us to Ben Tyson, a former Lieutenant Soldier in Vietnam, who, 20 years later is living a normal day-to-day life, married to his beautiful wife Marcy, with his son David.
And I love how the story, even though it doesn't fully focus on the conflict of Vietnam it does focus a lot on the crime that Tyson's men committed during the conflict.
WORD OF HONOR reads like The Caine Mutiny as a Vietnam story.
Ben Tyson is accused of murder for a massacre occurring in a hospital during the Tet offensive, February 1968, eighteen years after it happened.
As an officer Tyson is the only member of the platoon--Alpha Company of the 7th Cavalry--that can be tried for the crime and the US Army opens a court-martial for murder.
The outcome is little surprise, but it ends exactly how it should and even more importantly the novel says something about humanity and war, and America's Vietnam War.
This is a good definition of a pointless story. 0 of 10 stars
So saying this is my fave of his is high praise indeed.Written and set in the mid 80s, the book follows uthe fortunes of Ben Tyson, a successful executive in the aerospace industry who is married, has a nearly grown son, and has put the Vietnam War behind him.
However, a book has appeared that allages that the platoon he commanded in Hue in 1968 is responsible for a brutal atrocity--the killing of over 100 civilians.
And Ben is the only person mentioned by name in the book, even though he is not accused of directly participating in the killing himself.
Word of HonorI have had this audio book since 2009 and finally made myself listen to it.
The story take place some 18 years after Ben Tyson has returned from Vietnam, a man with a comfortable job in NY, a family out in the 'burbs and a sense of honor.
Someone has written a bestselling book about the carnage at Hue. The author's two witnesses have made Ben Tyson the guilty party of allowing his platoon to massacre all in a French hospital during the war – now the government plans to make him their scape goat.
Totally excellent.I'm about half way through and I have to say I suspect this may be the best DeMille I have read.
DeMille novelistically raises many important issues with regard to war crimes and the assignment of blame.UPDATE: The issue of command culpability has intrigued me for years and is certainly of paramount importance given our history with the Nuremberg trials, Vietnam, and now Iraq.
I'm not arguing the validity of these decisions (although you can guess where I stand, those idiots) but given our positions at Nuremberg and public posturing we need to be very careful.Of course, it's the winner of every war who writes history and makes the rules.
I like Nelson DeMille.
He writes the way I fix things around the house -- methodically -- takes his time -- and doesn't have to repeat himself.This book is a reflection on Vietnam, as written by a Vietnam Vet himself.It's a retrospective look, so it's set in semi-modern era (80's maybe?
and looks back at things that happened in the past -- doing so in an intelligent and interesting way.It's really two stories wrapped around each other.
The retelling of Vietnam, and the character development of the main protagonist.I like this book.

Possibly my favorite courtroom drama of all time.
Reading the other reviews of Word of Honor I see that most people who did not go to Vietnam as a serviceman conclude that most of those who did go experienced the very worst of that chapter of our history, the period after 1968 or so when the people back home had turned against the war and against those who were fighting it, and when drugs and cynicism among the troops was rampant.
But, Word of Honor captures the ambiguity and sense of failure that surrounds the Vietnam War.
My scale is 1 - didn't like2 - Ok3 - Enjoyed4 - Would see the movie5 - would read again.This book got a 2.
It took a long time to tell the story and I'm not sure the characters are any better off than they were before the events of the book.
That was probably the intent that nobody wins at war, but it lead me to believe that the lead character has something up his sleeve to reveal about his nemeses.
I'll read something else of his (not all are war stories)
HOLY CRAP!! I didn't expect this book to make me bawl like a baby, but it did! Nelson DeMille produced his magnum opus his first time out. This story is every bit as relevant today as it was when it was first published. How I wish that were not so. But war will always be with us, and the ethical questions that accompany it will always plague us. :(
This was my favorite of all of Nelson's books.
It resonated strongly with me because I too served near Hue, but two years after the timeline of his story.
In this book, Nelson revealed stories that were true, but are best forgotten.
War is an ugly affair.
The average participant on the American side was twenty years old.
Some bad things were done by stressed out kids on occasions, but by and large, the cruel things the soldier (kids) had to process were the things done to civilians by the enemy.
This book is a cathartic experience for any Vietnam combat veteran who reads it:
The lead character is charged with murder for a My Lai-type massacre at a hospital 18 years after leaving Viet Nam. No one disputes that he didn't kill anyone himself, but he was the lieutenant in charge of troops that committed the murders, and under military law, that makes him the guilty party, not them, if he didn't take steps to stop them.
I had to take the book down one star, however, because I just didn't LIKE the character.
When I first saw that this book was about Vietnam, I wasn't sure I wanted to read another book about the war.
It is about Lieutenant Ben Tyson, a product of Vietnam.
A man who had been keeping a secret for 18 years about a massacre that had happened; that he and his men had sworn to keep secret.
I was on pins and needles.Anyone who fought in Vietnam would appreciate this book in a way that I can't because I wasn't there.
The author, by the way, did serve as a lieutenant in Vietnam.
Like so many people born in 1980s America, I grew up with a dad who fought in a war that we never talked about.
Lieutenant Ben Tyson is accused of allowing his men to massacre the inhabitants of a hospital while in Vietnam, 20+ years after the fact.
It's interesting to follow the story, the military court martial procedures, and the politics of the time.
It's like Rashomon (which sadly I've only seen the movie so far!) in that nobody's story is exactly the same as facts unfold, and one is left questioning what really happened at that hospital.
I rarely read books about Vietnam.
Although this book isn't exactly about the war, none the less, it contains the things about the Vietnam War that make me shy away.
For years I felt very guilty that I had not been ordered to serve there.
I was sad through most of this book.
But I knew the Army too and understood their problem.
In the end, justice is served but it took me on a tearful trip at times.
DeMille never let's his readers down and didn't let me down with this book but I don't want to reread it.
The relentless tension this creates amongst the Americans leads them to commit a tragic act that doesn't become public knowledge until 17 years after the war.
The book is about the court martial that results, but also about the incident itself, the events that lead to it and the relationship between the man on trial, Ben Tyson, and his men, his family, his lawyer and one of the prosecutors.The book borrows liberally from the play/movie Rashomon, to the extent that it is cited by one of the characters in the book, but the device used in Rashomon really works here.
Completely and utterly exhausted and exhilarated after completing Word of Honour at 2am but it's definitely been worth it.
It's a big bad rollercoaster ride that thrills and scares you one minute that then fills you with warming and human emotion that enlightens and saddens you the next.
It also educates and teaches valuable lessons about a difficult modern war environment and the impacts it has on society.I could go on but just find a copy and read it for yourself..I

I was introduced to the complexities of the Universal Code of Military Justice while in training at Bainbridge Air force Base in Georgia.
I fortunately obtained a transfer to a unit at McChord Air Force Base in Tacoma where I was working as a civilian.
During that Cuba Missile Incident, my former unit was called into active duty and I narrowly missed a similar inconvenience as the Lieutenant in this novel - though I certainly would have not had any of the extensive turmoil as detailed by DeMille!
Nelson DeMille – Word of Honor: New York Times Bestselling author Nelson DeMille has written a novel of epic scope, Word of Honor is one completely gripping story about what will happen to this haunted, guilt-ridden, essentially honorable man as his life and loved ones are massacred.
DeMille’s Word of Honor is an outstanding, intriguing and entertaining novel.
He has done a superb job on this novel, great modern popular fiction, a writer to enjoy time and again!
DeMille is an author of major standing.
This is one of my favorite  Nelson DeMille novels, and in my opinion, one of his most literary.Set in the early- to-mid- 1980s, Vietnam War vet Ben Tyson is a successful and seemingly-respectable corporate middle-management type who is suddenly ‘outed’ in a tell-all book as the officer responsible for a My Lai-type atrocity.
Up until this point, this war crime had been covered up, and no one had ever been held accountable.
Tyson’s life is thrown into chaos as the U.
S. government reactivates his military commission solely for the purpose of court-martialing him.The narrative follows Tyson’s court-martial and the events surrounding it, and much of the action takes place via flashback.
An absolute page turner, Word of Honor has all the ingredients of a great fiction novel: relatable characters with substance, a believable plot, simple setting, perfect dialogue and wit.
The book deals with a moral issue and approaches this dilemma with no bias...it shows both sides.
It's been years since I have read a DeMille novel (Spencerville), but I am hooked.
I'll read Charm School in a few weeks.
Just a tip - this is a big book.
I ordered the Trade paper back edition before a cross country flight and had some inconvenience in carrying it but it was worth the trouble.
This is an outstanding book that brings the reader back to divisive times of the Vietnam War and permanent consequences and scars of the warriors involved. This book also forces you the ask the question if there is a statue of limitations on moral failings or if some times and stresses are immune from moral judgement by those who weren't there. The women in the book are sexy and intriguing ... always a plus in a novel! I highly recommend this book.
I will not finish this misogynistic book. I'm appalled at DeMille's rough sexual behavior between a wife and husband in this book. I love a great sex scene but the machismo here is disturbing and I won't continue to listen. I really enjoy most DeMille books, but this one is getting one star even without finishing.
This was a monster of a book, and when I finished it, I felt a bit emotionally drained, as though I had gone on the journey with these characters. However, I could not put it down, I could not wait for the plot, and the truth, to be revealed, and i felt satisfied at the end. Despite being a very lengthy read, it was very satisfying.
