https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10176136-paycheck
What makes it such a classic story, however, is that it communicates a revolutionary concept (“time scooping”) through an exciting, straightforward narrative an almost fairy tale purity.Computer “mechanic” Jennings returns from two years of working for Rethrick Construction with his two years of memory—as stipulated by contract—permanently erased.
I wish I could give this story my highest praise, but unfortunately it concludes in a sappy, romantic fashion which, although perhaps suitable for the pulps, mars both its power and folktale simplicity.
But still, it is a small blot in an otherwise fine story, and I heartily recommend it.
Dick, written in 1952 and published one year later, and while it is clearly meant to entertain its readers with its Hitchcockian “innocent man on the run” motif, only to be slightly marred by its jarring pat ending, it also has a somewhat prophetic quality.Our protagonist, an engineer called Jennings, has just finished a two-year employment with athe mysterious company Rethrick Construction and instead of the huge payment he has been expecting he receives seven seemingly worthless little everyday objects.
Wenn Ihr das Buch bereits daheim habt, ist es durchaus mit 3,5 Sternen zu bewerten und lesesenswert, wenn nicht, gibt es eine weitaus bessere Alternative für Euch: Besorgt Euch "Der unmögliche Planet", eine Sammlung von 30 der besten Kurzgeschichten Dicks, denn bis auf zwei Geschichten sind alle guten Stories dieses Buches auch dort versammelt und noch viel mehr guter Stoff als Draufgabe.
Zwischen den Stühlen - grandios - nur in diesem Buch 8.
Allzeit bereit - mittelmäßig das Ende passt gar nicht - nur in diesem Buch 11.
Präpersonen - grandios und fürchterlich - auch im unmöglichen PlanetenAlso wenn Ihr die Wahl habt, nehmt den unmöglichen Planeten.
It wasn't the best of movies and I think it might have been due to a similar issue as this story: it's hard to have tension when you know that every step the protagonist makes has already been planned for.
While it was fun having the protagonist figure everything out, it was just hard to feel worried for him knowing from quite early on that his past-self set him up to succeed.The core idea is once again very clever though and I can appreciate why this author is regarded as one of the best sci-fi writers ever.
Read as part of Minority Report and Other Stories.Another short that had a movie based on it. First published in 1953.I think one has to understand with these shorts that not a lot of time is spend on developing characters. There is a plot, and limit time to get through it.With Paycheck (don't think I've actually seen the movie) there were quite a few twists, which was nice. The whole short reads like a puzzle. And that is exactly what it is.Very enjoyable.
Some of these stories are a little dated and predictable now, but still a pleasure to read. Standouts were the title tale, Paycheck, a pacy time travel adventure; The Days of Perky Pat, in which adult survivors of a global crisis use the technology given them by kindly aliens not to rebuild their planet, but to re-enact the past with dolls; and The Pre-Persons, which I can recall from a collection I gave my dad years ago and impressed us both at the time.
I needed something quick to listen to on the way home from work. I was so surprised by how awesome this was. I got wrapped up in the story immediately. It was a fun and exciting read. Great if you want something short and fun. I love science fiction so this was perfect!
After seeing the movie, I heard several people talking about how amazing it was that Dick imagined such advanced computer technology way back in the 50s and 60s, never realizing that the computers in the original story actually generated punch-cards and were...
Like every PKD adaptation I've ever seen, the movie is significantly different from the written story.
Like I said, it made me a little uncomfortable sometimes, but more than that, I got to the end and asked "so what?" without a good response.I recommend the story to any PKD fan and to anyone interested in that time period and classic science fiction.
This is a very short story, so it will be a short review.
It actually fits in quite comfortably with The Minority Report by PKD as both deal with the ability to see events that have not occurred yet.
I suppose the technology in Paycheck exceeds that in Minority as they are also capable of "reaching" into the future, not just observing it from the past.
Anachronisms littered the story like punchcards in a modern data center (terrible).
It is good, very short, and a fun read.
Nothing profound, but fun.
Let’s take a look one story at a time then, and see what we can glean…PaycheckI actually thought there was going to be an ultimate twist in this story, where it is revealed at the end that everything has been manipulated by a villain character, and our protagonist has merely been a pawn in someone else’s game – much like the film of Total Recall, which is of course based on another Dick story (that I haven’t read).

This short story is incredibly dense. It comes off as proto-cyberpunk in the sense that corporations or state-police are the character's only two options. But, they thing that really resonated with me, aside from the haunting universe of contracting away years of your life with no memory, was the theme of the main character loving himself and being his own best friend. 5-stars, highly recommended.
Instead of a paycheck, you get trinkets and have to puzzle solve your way through the world. Most interesting is the police-state where corporations and big businesses have rights, but individuals do not. So, if you can get “in” with a business, you have found sanctuary. The idea of a business operation that is preparing a working class revolution against the status quo government is definitely timely.
And, again, I'm left wondering if PKD defined a new trope/ subgenre with his work. The 'hey, I've seen the future, you'll need this ball of twine, this pin, and this pencil. You'll be fine. Trust me' style of story, told masterfully and seriously, tells me that this was one of the first, if not the very first of its kind.
Un recueil de nouvelles dont certaines ont inspiré des romans !Liste des nouvelles : La clause de salaireNannyLe monde de JonPetit déjeuner au crépusculeUne petite villeLe père truquéLà où il y a de l'hygièneAutofabAu temps de Poupée PatLe suppléant Un p'tit quelque chose pour nous, les temponautesLes pré-personnes
Short read about a software developer working on something so top secret he let his memory get wiped so he didn’t remember his work. When he finishes and find he waived his right to his payment and left himself trinkets instead which almost immediately gets him killed, you’ve only just begin. Engaging with some twists and turns along the way. Recommended.
It was fine
Do you like Ben Affleck? Me neither.
Audio book in English. Very interesting Sci-Fi
Contrived, but cute. The brevity saves it from inducing more eye rolls. Worth a read for established fans of classic science fiction, but not likely to bring others into the fan club.
This is a collection of the author's classic science fiction stories covering a variety of topic. Some are a little strange but overall the collection is a good read.
One of the few times the movie was probably better.
Rating: 3.5 starsQuick pacing and kept me guessing till the end.
Not bad for 1953.
A very short audiobook, but a decent listen. There were a lot of deviations to make this into an exciting film. However, this was still enjoyable as its own independent story.
Simply Brilliant! I loved it!!!
I loved this book. So good. It's like 1992 pizza hut buffet. I'm shelving all of my other books and reading everything I can get my hands on by Philip K Dick.
There is much telling, and little showing and it lessens the effect of the single, overriding force that drives him and creates (or is supposed to create) suspense in the story.
The setting is too diaphanous for us to understand the implications in this story about time – both in the sense of ravelling through it, but also planning for the future in the short term and the very long term.
We've been told to much, shown too little and could we care less about Jennings?
He's produced better, but it's still crisp, clean story-telling and an enjoyable read.
But we all saw that coming.”“The big economic forces had managed to remain free, although virtually everything else had been absorbed by the Government.
Laws that had been eased away from the private person still protected property and industry.”“The modern church, sanctuary.
It was the Government against the corporation, rather than the State against the Church.
Where the law could not follow.”“There's going to be resistance, someday.
A strong, desperate resistance.
Not by big people, powerful people, but by little people.
Waiters.”(Excerpts From: Philip K.
Dick.
“Selected Stories of Philip K.
Dick.” Random House, Inc., iBooks.)Historical reference I learned: "Roland at Roncesvalles"
Set in the future, to a time where what seems to be a totalitarian government reigns, a man wakes up to find that he's worked two years for a company without remembering even a second of it.
Now, wanted by the police to answer questions he doesn't know, the ex-worker races against time to seek sanctuary with only those few objects to piece together the puzzle at large.
Definitely worth reading for anyone who likes science-fiction or stories of dystopias.
Plus, it's short story format makes for a quick read that packs a punch.
