https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203805.Vincent_Van_Gogh
The works are now displayed in museums around the world, including in Washington, D.C., Paris, New York and Amsterdam.How Did Van Gogh Die?On July 27, 1890, Vincent van Gogh went out to paint in the morning carrying a loaded pistol and shot himself in the chest, but the bullet did not kill him.
In 1885, he began work on what is considered to be his first masterpiece, "Potato Eaters." His brother, Theo, by this time living in Paris, believed the painting would not be well-received in the French capital, where impressionism had become the trend.
Foreword: Deserted--Vincent van Gogh: The Complete Paintings, Part 1. Etten, April 1881 -- Paris, 1888Foreword: The Unity of Art and Life--Vincent van Gogh: The Complete Paintings, Part 2. Arles, February 1888 -- Auvers-sur-Oise, July 1890Vincent van Gogh 1853 -- 1890 A ChronologyBibliographyComparative Table of Catalogue NumbersIndex of PaintingsAcknowledgementsIndex of Names
I ended up reading two books about Vicent that time and this was one of them.
While it is true that I'm a lover of art, I find Vicent's paintings to be particularly moving.
Some time in the future, I plan to invest in a few books of the sort, but I think that can wait.This book is not a complete study of Vicent's life but it is a very interesting read.
He was a great painter, but his life story is noteworthy as well.
I for one plan to continue reading about Vicent.
As a person who was not aware of the works of Vincent van gogh, I was surprised to read about the biography of the artist marred by trouble, depression, sadness and failures.
I have come out with utmost appreciation for his work and respect.
But the time will come when people will recognize that they are worth more than the value of the paints used in the picture." Recommended as a collectible for a copy of all his works in color and a introductory monograph on the artist.
They are arranged in chronological order and that made them very useful as I was reading The Letters of Vincent Van Gogh, which are fascinating.
I read the second volume more carefully than the first and found their theory about the factors contributing to Van Gogh's suicide very interesting.
Given Van Gogh's romantic nature, it's an interesting possibility, along with all the more familiar factors, like the pain and humiliation of his previous "attacks." So, interesting ideas and a comprehensive collection of Van Gogh's works - I'd recommend the set.
Non solamente i dipinti meravigliosi, ma anche una prosa incredibile hanno contribuito al mio voto finale -non che non sapessi già in partenza che sarebbe stato questo.Nonostante il mio interesse per Van Gogh, temevo che sarebbe stata una lettura un po' prolissa (è pur sempre una monografia di 700 pagine, non esattamente qualcosa di leggero). Invece, non nego di essere rimasta piacevolmente sorpresa dal modo in cui gli autori hanno costruito il testo, niente affatto banale e ricco di interessanti spunti di riflessione.Davvero una esperienza piacevolissima.
Nje veper arti. Kompzimi i librit eshte po aq i magjishem sa pikturat e tij. Jeta e nje njeriu te turbulluar, i cili shpalos gjithe boten e tij shpirterore ne telajo. Cdo informacion i mundshem mbi Vincent Van Gogh, jeta, pikturat, pervoja, udhetimet... Gjuthçka...! Nje liber magjik!!!
I was having withdrawal symptoms from Amsterdam, and decided to read this. A beautiful collection, which would be a perfect gift, and a wonderful coffee table book to dip in and out of.
I can hardly expect Taschen to include an original Van Gogh painting with each book, and even if they did it would probably put the retail price a biiiiiiiiit out of my range.
This is an example of the interior writing, with the author here speaking of van Gogh's cornfield paintings.
Such writing permeates the book, and is the chief reason why, about 20% of the way into the book, I began to skip large passages.
By the end of the book I was merely flipping through the pages, looking at the pretty pictures.
Vincent Van Gogh, a perfectionist without a doubt.
For starters his story holds so much, everyone would know him as the Man who has a severed ear, but he’s so much more than that.
His letters are the reason why you should start knowing him better, he’s a deliberate artist, him and his extraordinary mind, he would just pick up a brush and paint with no care in the world.
He deserved so much, it saddens me to say that he died in vain, heres to a world where Van Gogh is appreciated and loved.
Vincent is by far the most imaginative, passionate, witty and influential painter ever lived, and very souful, helpful, empathetic and hardworking man- a real human being- fantastic artists and amazing personality.The work by Mr Metzger and his collegues is complete, amazing and essential for everybody interested in paintings like me. Afficionados go first, of course.
(it's been 2 years! I did it!)the book is highly informative, which is not surprising considering it's over 700p long.
I truly admire the author's tremendous effort and great works on incorporating Vincent van Gogh's painting style and his life mainly based on the letters with his brother Theo chronically.
It is a great dedication that the author relates Gogh's mind based on the letter to derive his evolving painting styles over his life.
After reading this book, I kinda feel loneliness at the same time in "Starry Night Over the Rhone" as it was the time when Gogh was living in France apart from his affable brother, Theo(The painting is painstakingly beautiful when you see it in Musee d'Orsay).
I highly recommend this book to people who wants to know more thoroughly about Vincent van Gogh.
The set is a beautiful hardcover collection of Van Gogh's work, as well as a riveting biography of his troubled life. I own the 2-volume boxed set (1994). I purchased it 'previously enjoyed', on Alibris, and it is evident what a bargain this is! I've read that the newer edition of this book released by Taschen in 2001, cannot compare; it's a single volume and the art plates are very poor quality. If you're able to find this older edition, even if it's second-hand, go for it!
Vincent Van Gogh’s life and work is detailed in this biography.I found this book interesting for a number of reasons. Firstly his family background was discussed which gave a fuller picture of the artist, his training and the financial support he was given – which contrasted with the normal picture of an unloved, penniless madman. Secondly the book contained numerous examples of his works, many of which I thought were very good.
I. Like. This. Book
A very humane and subtle examination of a very humane, yet tormented artist. Beautiful.

Perhaps one of the best books on van Gogh out there (especially for this price!). The selection of the reproductions is representable, the prints are amazing (again: and for this price!) and the text is beautifully written, containing both the relatively decent interpretations of the paintings as well as biographical details of Vincent's life. The text also includes passages from his letters and other writings to make a complete portrayal of one of the most brilliant characters of the 19th century.
An overwhelming collection -- everything by the great artist, from the early sketches of peasants to the incandescent wheat fields at the end. The text covers his life with a minimum of fuss and does a pretty good job describing the various stages of Van Gogh's career and development. This is the edition to have if you think that Van Gogh's was one of the supreme artistic achievements of humanity and you want to study the master over many sittings.
This book not only shares his celebrated works, but some of his lesser known works. It puts to rest some of the well spread myths about Van Gogh. I'm a complete and utter fan of his works and the passion he put into each brush stroke. I sympathize with the fact that he had a mental illness and used his art to express himself. I never believed he killed himself, and this book brought validation to that thought.
Very good. Definitely the best work on Van Gogh one could ever enjoy: the pictures are gorgeous both in quality and number, and the text provides a thorough account of the artist's life and social environment. A large-format, dust-jacketed volume to be proudly displayed or shelved, or a clever present suitable for any reader - either familiar with art or just fond of beautiful, colourful pictures. As always with Taschen, the best books for the best price.
It's a Great collection for those who want to become more familiar with Van Gogh's work, but some of the reproductions are low quality in resolution as well as color. Not to mention the dust jacket design is disgusting. Thankfully I got it at a steal when Borders closed; I would never pay the list price.
this book was a very helpful insight to van Goghs art work and how his style evolved as he aged. it also includes all his paintings and ,in detail, descriptions of when and why he painted them. my opinion of this book was that it was very good and it was one of my favorite book i have ever read.
Van Gogh painted 'Almond Blossom' after the birth of his nephew. The event marked his style.There are so many warm feelings irradiating from this heart touching wonderful painting! - its blue colors let us imagine that the branches are not cut from the tree. There is happiness, there is life-I so much love it!
¿Quién interpreta para nosotros con formas y colores la vida grande y poderosa que en nuestro siglo cada vez es más consciente de sí misma? Yo conozco a un hombre. Un lobo solitario, un pionero que lucha solo en la oscuridad de la noche y la posteridad se acordará de su nombre: Vincent. <3
Tashen is the place to look for insightful approches to Art?An imaginative, passionate, witty and influential painter perfectly depicted in his art and mankind. The work is comprehensive, amazing and essential for every aficionado or even scholars.
Vincent Van Gogh is my favorite artist so going through this whole book of all of his art was amazing. Beautiful Paintings with great detail. Helps when wanting to learn more about him.
He lived a weird lonely life and I think that this book is the best one to understand why he painted the way he did and why he's really important even nowadays. It's a great book!
This book is an extensive look into the life of the beloved painter Van Gogh.
His paintings were among my favorite in the realm of aesthetics, but once I was able to grasp a firmer hold on what his life had been, it helped me love his paintings on a deeper level.
I also was able to learn some artistic terms and styles spelled out in the book.
I have no inclination towards painting, but I still enjoyed learning.
I would recommend this book to any avid artist or Van Gogh fan.
But I would also recommend this to any Christian Van Gogh has deep insights into the Christian life.
