https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102139.Gallows_View
Gallows View is the first novel in the popular Inspector Banks series by British author Peter Robinson.
A very attractive female psychologist, Jenny Fuller, has been called in to help with the investigation of the Peeping Tom. Although she is a well-respected and first-rate psychologist, she is primarily chosen because she is a woman, due to the fact that there is a woman’s group in the town that has accused the police department of putting the investigation on the back burner because the crime is only committed against women.
Since Banks is the Chief Inspector, he has his hands full trying to solve the three sets of crimes.
This is a series I have wanted to try for a very long time.
It’s a series with staying power; it still attracts a significant number of loyal readers despite its long run of 24 (so far) books over a 30-year period.
Furthermore, by the end of the book I was starting to get a better feel for DCI Banks and Sergeant Hatchley.
I wish all crime novels came with a map.Overall, I think Gallows View shows promise.
I will definitely continue on with the series as I would like to see how Mr. Robinson matured as a writer with hopes that he really developed his characters and came up with even better plots.
He's certainly not as flashy as Lucas Davenport or as complex as John Rebus, but if you were in need of a detective, he's probably just the sort of guy you'd want on the job.In this instance, Banks faces three complex criminal cases and some personal issues as well.
By now, it's like settling in with a familiar cast of characters that you look forward to meeting again once every year or so.Over twenty-three books Banks's personal life has steadily evolved, and this is one of those series where a reader would probably be well advised to start at the beginning rather than picking up the latest installment and learning a lot of things that you might well not want to know.
I really enjoyed this one. It reminded me a lot of the Martin Beck series by Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahloo. The characters are well developed. Banks is a very respectable man with good values and morals and his wife, Sandra, is really easy going. This was an enjoyable read and I found myself always wanting to get back to reading it. It wasn't particularly suspenseful until the end, but the book moved at a good pace. I'm looking forward to reading more in the series.
Detective Chief Inspector Alan Banks was doing everything he could to find and capture the peeping Tom who was terrorizing young women in Eastvale, but his frustrations were mounting.
Added to that were burglars who were preying on the elderly women of the area – and then an elderly woman was killed in her home and it was ransacked.
Had the peeping Tom escalated?
Would Inspector Banks get to the bottom of the crimes that seemed to be rife in the area?
The first in the Inspector Banks series, the tension and pace is electric.
When Chief Inspector Alan Banks relocated from London to the Yorkshire village of Eastvale, he expected the quiet of the countryside.
But, with a string of robberies, a Peeping Tom, a rape, and a murdered doddering 87-year-old woman, Banks has his hands full.I had heard a lot of good things about Peter Robinson’s Alan Banks series, and the debut, Gallows View, was serviceable, although not awe-inspiring.
The honest, if imperfect, Banks makes for an interesting protagonist, and I really liked his wife.
In addition, I expect Banks to grow on me as the series advances.
This is one of the early novels in Robinson's Alan Banks series of detective novels, and lacks the psychological depth and sense of dark claustrophobia that make the more recent entries worthy of their place on the shelf alongside books by the likes of Ian Rankin and Ruth Rendell.
The Yorkshire town of Eastvale is being plagued by a peeping tom and by a spate of house invasion-style thefts, in which a couple of thugs push their way into the homes of old dears and petrify their victims into silence as they strip the place of cash and valuables.
Then one of the old dears is killed in the course of such a robbery .
This book I read in 3 hours, cover to cover - could not put it down.
The author has a knack of giving so much detail that the picture is clear in your mind as reading the words, without being over descriptive to the point of tediousness.It's compelling and very readable, the characters are detailed and the plot keeps you going until the end.
It is a very good crime novel and I read a lot of them.
I will certainly be reading more of this compelling series.
This first book in the series featuring DI Alan Banks does a great job of introducing the main character and the people in his life as he works to resolve three cases that end up intersecting seamlessly.
Banks moved to Yorkshire from London to have a less stressful work life only to be faced with these complicated crimes.
This series can only get better and I plan to continue.
The narrator of the audiobook, Mark Honan, did an exceptional job of providing distinctive voice for at least 10 characters.
He brought them to life, which magnified the story.
More of a 3.5 listen.
The narrator was good & there was more to the story than I expected.
No mystery here except how Banks will wrap it all up, but at least the author didn't try for any except in one case & that was well done.What made this an interesting listen was the setting, a large town in England, & the characters, pure English.
It seemed to be a very realistic snapshot of their life & issues.I have another, but I'm not in a rush to get to it.
The writing was very good, but it wasn't really my sort of book.
Similarly, the Inspector's blonde wife at one point "raises her dark eyebrows." And then there is Inspector Banks whose "character" is largely based on his being an opera lover because he once caught a TV performance of The Magic Flute.
We are told his enthusiasms embrace Monteverdi's Orfeo, Berg's Lulu, Britten's Peter Grimes, Puccini's Tosca and Madama Butterfly as well as Stravinsky's The Rake's Progress.
Eclectic tastes for a man who drives home accompanied by "the delightful melodies of The Magic Flute." Monteverdi to Berg argues a broad musical interest - yet he is puzzled when he is told that a piece he is listening to is Bruch's Violin Concerto!
Chief Inspector Alan Banks has his hands full in Eastvale after transferring to the small town after years of duty in London. There's a Peeping Tom afoot, a series of burglaries that are increasing in number and intensity and the murder of an elderly woman occurring in the period of time.On top of the ongoing investigations into the various crimes, Banks experiences a crisis of conscience -- not associated with his professional life, but with his personal life. It's all interwoven into a plot that moves forward at a commanding pace, sweeping the story and the reader ever ahead.
3.75 stars rounded up.
I enjoyed the writing, the main characters, and the setting of this new (to me) long-running British detective series.
However, the young villains were a bit too villainous for me, making me want to smack the sneers off their faces many times.
The audio was really well done.
I'm listening to audiobooks while writing postcards to voters.
If you're concerned about the direction the US is headed and are feeling frustrated, consider volunteering for Postcards to Voters.
They help elect Dems in tight races so we can flip the Congress blue and save our democracy.
The first DCI Banks novel, published in 1987, is a good police procedural story with plenty of interesting characters.
There are no car chases or daring stunts here, but there is a good plot & an easy narrative.
One of the storylines involves someone secretly watching women undressing when they go to bed & makes me ask the question "Why don't these people draw their curtains before getting undressed ?" But if they did that, of course, then there would be no story here!
Reading this novel has certainly cheered me up after hearing the news that the TV series has been cancelled after five great years.
Looking forward to the second novel very much.
Buena primera entrega del inspector Banks, por lo que tengo entendido, una de las menos intrincadas de la serie. Aunque se nota que el estilo aún no está muy depurado, pues la novela salió al mercado en el siglo pasado, se ve potencial como para continuar con las siguientes. La trama es sencillita, pero los protagonistas principales prometen.
Read this again as I couldn’t remember a single thing about the previous reading. Is that because there is nothing memorable to it, or my increasingly poor memory? Who said that?Ahh, right. I see. Ok, so it’s ... ok. I thought I may give others in the series a go, I see from many of the other reviews that they do get better. I think I probably will too. It was entertaining and looking forward to reading some more.
First book of the DCI Alan Banks series. Maybe the crime plots were a little predictable but nevertheless the characters were well developed which bodes well for the rest of the series.I will certainly be continuing with this series.
Detective Chief Inspector Alan Banks was hoping to shed his chain smoking and caffeine swilling habits when he left his London posting and moved to the Yorkshire countryside.
The issue is revisited in ironic fashion when Banks is forced to reprimand Sergeant Hatchley, an unpolished Yorkshire man whom Sandra calls a boor, for “hitting on” one of the peeping tom's victims.
This actually helps Banks win acceptance from the Yorkshiremen (no women) on the police force.
The move from London to Yorkshire endows him with experience, but spares the reader from some of the horrific crimes he has surely seen.
2.5 stars from me, I liked the characters and plot line but I feel like it was all a bit underdeveloped, having said that I wouldn't say I won't try another Inspector Banks because I may well come back to this series at some point.
Gallows View is an okay introduction to the British mystery series featuring Inspector Alan Banks, who lives and works in Eastvale, Yorkshire.
Banks, who has moved to Yorkshire to get away from the high-stress levels of police work and of life in general in London, takes the lead on all of these cases -- which may or may not be linked together.
As with most first novels in a mystery series, Banks' character isn't as well developed right away as it will hopefully be in the next ones.
It's not on the cozy end of mystery novels, but it's not really hardcore either.
Alan Banks is an interesting character, having moved from London to Eastvale in Yorkshire, in the hope of a quieter police life.
The pace of the book was excellent and I enjoyed how the cases were worked and ultimately how they were resolved.
All in all, it was an excellent first story and I'm glad now that I have a few others of the series in my bookshelves awaiting my attention.
As an aside, this series has also been developed for TV and while I felt the TV show to be quite different from the initial book, I enjoyed both immensely.
Newly relocated from London to Eastvale, the detective needs to take on a number of simultaneous challenges; first, a peeper is stalking women of the community and the police fear that he will not be happy just looking at some point in time.
At the same time, a chain of burglaries turns violent on more than one apparent occasion.
Despite a few coincides and related/simultaneous happenings too much to feel all the way probable, the converging stories are handled really well and the conclusion and aftermath is dealt with equally expertly and therefore the book as a whole is very readable and entertaining.
This is the first in the Chief Inspector Banks series by Peter Robinson.
This review is for the audiobook version of the story.
I am always on the lookout for a new series that take place in foreign places.
I like the Yorkshire backdrop and the interesting cultural differences.
Granted that mysteries, by nature, are less action packed than thrillers it is even more pronounced foreign books.
I liked the pace of the story.
The quality of the audiobook is very good.
I highly recommend this story to anyone who is looking for a new series to start and I look forward to reading the next book

What I like most about Robinson's novels is the narrative style; how the story switches from Inspector Banks to the other characters, which lets you understand them more. Banks is an interesting person, the psychiatrist was fine. However, Comparing to his later novels, this one is the least likable. I mean the story was fine but not great. So don't judge Robinson from this one, because his later books are much better.
And what happens when Inspector Bank's own wife is targeted as well?Well, that reaches into spoiler territory, but the feel for the series is what I like so far: the local dialect and dialogue; the descriptions of churches, towns, the countryside (which are kept to the minimum yet are spot-on); and the way the story slowly unravels, with Banks relying more on his powers of persuasion and interrogation rather than ordinary forensics to solve the case.He also gets involved - emotionally, that is - with a beautiful, red-headed profiler, who appears in at least the two other books I've read in the series.
And what happens when Inspector Bank's own wife is targeted as well?Well, that reaches into spoiler territory, but the feel for the series is what I like so far: the local dialect and dialogue; the descriptions of churches, towns, the countryside (which are kept to the minimum yet are spot-on); and the way the story slowly unravels, with Banks relying more on his powers of persuasion and interrogation rather than ordinary forensics to solve the case.He also gets involved - emotionally, that is - with a beautiful, red-headed profiler, who appears in at least the two other books I've read in the series.
With insomnia wrecking my nights (again) I've begun to read detective fiction again, these long and endless series of novels that really just form one continuous story.
I love those that develop the character as we go, and a perfect example are the Inspector Banks series by Peter Robinson, which I just finished yesterday.
Most of all, I love the flashes of elegant humour in his novels, occasionally crass but almost always provoking laughter out loud.In particular, I'd recommend Aftermath, Playing with Fire and Cold is the Grave, but if you have the time, it's worth beginning at the beginning and reading them all.
DCI Alan Banks, gradually settling into his new home on Yorkshire and hoping for rather less violence than he was used to in the Met, finds himself in the middle of a complex web of interconnected cases.
Or are there several different criminals at work in this small area?I liked the Yorkshire setting of this well written and well plotted police procedural.
Banks himself is an interesting and sympathetic character and the police characters get on with each other.
So many crime authors seem to feel the need to set series characters against each other and give then complicated private lives it makes a pleasant change to find a book with none of these elements.
Peter Robinson is one of those authors who never seems to disappoint me.
Which for me is pretty high praise.
If you caught on to Peter Robinson in the past three or four years and your reading is primarily digital, then you probably had a difficult time locating the first three books in this series.
Well now they are available and if you subscribe to Oyster you can find most of the series there.
This was the first, certainly good but I wouldn't rank it with his best, but you don't expect that with a first do ya?
And ...amazingly he kicks off his detective series without a serial killer.
