https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205821.Caddie_Woodlawn
Read about what's wrong with the author of Caddie Woodlawn describing Wisconsin as a "wilderness" and the white settlers as "pioneers," and why it didn't matter how good "good Indians" like Indian John were.I'll end with this paragraph from that book:The overall story line most American history textbooks tell about American Indians is this: We tried to Europeanize them; they wouldn't or couldn't do it; so we dispossessed them.
This book was a re-read and a visit back to my childhood. I think the first time I read this was when I was reading all of the "Little House On The Prairie" series since it took place in the same area.This is the story about a young girl who has to make her own place in the world. And her place is Wisconsin. She had many trials of growing up in this story. So in a sense this book is a Bildungsroman story.I am glad that I took the time to revisit one of my favourite childhood stories.
Mrs. Klatt, my 5th grade teacher, read this book to us and then we went to visit where Caddie lived (about 30 miles south of where I grew up).
I loved the Little House books, but to me, I WAS Caddie.
If you want to read about a pioneer gal who lived in western Wisconsin and was as fiesty as her red hair, read this book.
You can go see and walk through Caddie's house.
It's a rest area south of Downsville, Wisconsin.
I try and get there every couple of years and swing through the logging museum in Downsville.
Are we sure Caddie and Laura weren't neighbors?There are a lot of encounters with Native Americans in these two books.
I can't help but wonder how things would have been different if the spirit of adventure had not been so polluted by a spirit of entitlement.How Caddie Woodlawn is unlike Little House:Caddie has two brothers.
The bulk of Laura Ingalls Wilder's story takes place further west, so Caddie's story doesn't feel quite as wild or wide-open as Laura's does.There aren't nearly as many savory descriptions of food in Caddie Woodlawn, which has always been one of my favorite parts of the Little House books.
This was my first time reading the novel as an adult and I loved it all the more for all the sense of fun and adventure I so enjoyed as a child, and found a deeper appreciation of so many more elements—such as Father and Mother’s relationship (I had tears in my eyes at the end of the chapter, Pigeons or Peacocks?) and Mr. Woodlawn’s wonderfully unorthodox parenting style with Caddie (and Mrs. Woodlawn’s trust in him in allowing this to happen), letting her “run wild with the boys” to regain her health (this reminded me of a bit of Uncle Alec’s treatment for Rose from Louisa May Alcott’s “Eight Cousins” books) and the respect that they show the children, especially with a life-changing decision that must be made toward the end of the book.
This book will always speak of home, comfort and happiness to me. I've read it multiple times growing up, and now reading it again now that I'm older, it is just as lovely. I love Brink's writing style, and her characters are just wonderful. I especially loved Caddie's relationship with her father. Reminds me of my relationship with my father. <3 And of course, Tom, Warren, Hetty, etc all help make up this exceptional book.
I would give this book 5 stars based on 1 chapter alone.This chapter is Mark Twain hilarious mixed with Flannery O'Connor morbid.In this chapter the eldest boy tells a story he's made up to amuse his younger siblings while they do chores.
My Kids (age 6 and 10) and I were laughing so hard, I had to pause several times to catch my breath or exclaim, "that's terrible" before we went on.Another chapter had me in tears (the sad kind this time) as a story of brutally honest prejudice unraveled.
(Originally I was going to put it at either 3.5 or 4, but I really liked the last few chapters.)I actually hadn’t heard of this book until I found it at a library sale over a year ago.
Throughout this book we follow Caddie and her siblings on their adventures and mishaps, while getting a looks at what pioneer life was like.
She is mentioned a few times, but I didn’t like when the book said “No one missed her now”.
I understand the point it was trying to make, that it has been years and they have already mourned, but that doesn’t mean that nobody misses her.
This Newbery Award winner tells the story of Caddie Woodlawn, age about 12, in 1864 Wisconsin, growing up on a farm with her six brothers and sisters, and her two parents.
Brink based the novel (and a sequel) on the stories her grandmother told about living in Western Wisconsin during the time of the Civil War. The family is tight-knit and the children have many adventures, including exploring the river and woods near their homestead, and visiting the local tribe of Native Americans (“Indian John” being a particular friend).
The story reminds me a bit of Laura Ingalls Wilders’ “Little House” books, and that is definitely a good comparison.
Cleanliness:Children's Bad WordsMild Obscenities & Substitutions - 24 Incidents: golly, bully, good land, gollee-Christmas, cricketyName Calling - 7 Incidents: big-mouthed scared-cats, whippersnapper, tattletale, baby, rascalScatological Terms - 6 Incidents: bl**dy (as in lots of blood)Religious Profanity - 9 Incidents: God knows, Heaven knows, mercy's sake, goodness knows, upon my word, great sakes, faith, bless my soulRomance Related - 8 Incidents: A man fell in love with a woman.
“It took a good deal to around Caddie from her good nature, but every read-head’s temper has its limitations, and Caddie’s had been reached." Two brothers come to school, not to learn, but to bait the teacher.
A fight breaks out and everyone learns a lesson.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Conversation Topics and Parent Takeaway, visit my website.
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
It is the sisters and wives and mothers, you know, Caddie, who keep the world sweet and beautiful.
What a rough world it would be if there were only men and boys in it, doing things in their rough way!
A woman's task is to teach them gentleness and courtesy and love and kindness.
A woman's work is someting fine and noble to grow up to, and it is just as important as a man's.
I want you to be a woman with a wise and understanding heart, healthy in body and honest in mind." (Caddie's father spoke these words on page 244)
Winner of the 1936 Newbery, this book centers on the tomboy of the title, the middle girl in a pioneer family of seven children in the open plains of 1860s Wisconsin.
Caddie has several highly risky adventures, but no one makes much of them, because "pioneer children were always having mishaps, but they were expected to know how to use their heads in emergencies."Like most of the Newbery winners, this book is an open door to another time and place; the culture and attitudes of the pioneers, both open-minded and otherwise, are put plain.
I'm done!) because I was sure I would like it, and I wanted to go out on a good note.I did like it, though I know I would have liked it a lot more if I hadn't already read so many similar, better books (i.e. Little House).
But I can appreciate how rare it was to find interesting, funny books about real children at the time this was written.
I did love the thing about their mother serving them turkey all year long.The chapter where Caddie spends her silver dollar on the "half-breed" children is dreadful, but whatever.
I like Little House style of writing better but cute story of pioneer life.
Caddie Woodlawn is a simple story about an all American girl with a patriotic spirit that stretches far beyond her rural Wisconsin home.
Along the way, Caddie begins to uncover secrets of her father's past and soon his former life will change the Woodlawn family forever.
And finally Caddie's father who supports his daughter in her life choices and future decisions.
I think every young girl should read this book at some point in their life.
Like Little House on The Prairie and Anne of Green Gables, Caddie Woodlawn is a simple, but comical and lively portrait of a young girl, the family she loved, and her journey from girlhood into womanhood.
This is one of my very favorite books now. I laughed, I cried, I hugged the book when it ended. I can't wait to share it with Phoebe some day.
The more I think about this book, the more I dislike it.
I just love this book. I got completely choked up about a dozen different times - I've absolutely become my mother.
The people in the town thought the Indian's were going to attack, and they all went to the Woodlawn's house, they came riding horses and they brought whatever they could.
She went with Indian John and he took her back to her house.Indian John left for the winter, and he gave Caddie his scalp belt, and his dog to take care of till he came back.
She did that because they were sad because their mother, who was in Indian, left them and went back to her people.Caddie, Tom and Warren put on a show for all the kids to show them the scalp belt.
(Ssh, don't tell Abbi!)My favorite quote:“It’s a strange thing, but somehow we expect more of girls than boys.
What a rough world it would be if there were only men and boys in it, doing things in their rough way!
A woman’s work is something fine and noble to grow up to, and it is just as important as a man’s.
No, that is not what I want for you, my little girl.
Do you think you would like to be a growing up into that woman now?… Something strange happened to Caddie in the night.
Caddie however, is a tom boy through and through, and when I, as a child, tired of reading about proper young ladies, and instead wanted to hear about a girl like myself, who got muddy and caught toads, Caddie was there for me.The pacing is a little strange in places, with a few pages of really compelling story telling, and a few draggy bits, but it doesn't stay slow for very long.
I would have liked a little more development of the secondary characters, or even just a little more insight into Caddie's mind occasionally, but with a children's book, ignoring such complexities is to be expected.
My Bobe and Zade and I would walk to the library and pick out a pile of books, stopping at Thrifty's on the way home for nickel scoops of ice cream (my favorite: rainbow sherbet).
I can't even think of this book without feeling a rush of immense love for my grandparents.One day when my Bobe had first moved to Minnesota (sometime in the late '50s) and she was trying to be a dutiful faculty wife, attending functions, she met Carol Ryrie Brink at some sort of party (I think her husband was also a mathematician at the University).
Embarrassed, she apologized to Ms. Brink, who said, "Do you see anyone else here fawning all over me?
This is a classic book and was really fun to read. I loved her spunky, pioneer girl attitude...riding out on a rainy night alone on her horse at age 11 to warn the indians of the danger brewing in her town against them! And, when her uncle almost accidentally drowned her and offered her a silver dollar if she would not tell her mother. She said, "are you trying to bribe a Woodlawn!" She knew who she was and what a Woodlawn stood for! I want my kids to know what a "Foster" is and live up to it!
The Newbery Award committee members seem to love a strong girl and Caddie is among the strongest. She roams and tarries with her ruffian brothers on the wild plains of Wisconsin around the time of the American Civil War. Caddie plays practical jokes on her cousin, runs to the Indians to warn of a massacre, and proudly displays an Indian scalp belt for all the town to see. Caddie finally begins to see that becoming a lady is not just learning to quilt and say the right words and wear fancy clothes.
pretty boring at first but it became better and than it was boring again
Wonderful book!
Newbery re-read. A classic Newbery. Slice-of-life of a young girl growing up in frontier Wisconsin. Well-written and well-paced. Captures a time-and-a-place if from the perspective of a young girl who's been allowed to run wild. Nothing especially bad or difficult happens in this one. But we get to see people with different backgrounds making different choices. We don't quite get to see who Caddie becomes. So not high art, but well executed.
Loved this one though I feel like I would have even more if I had read it when I was my younger sister's age! (she has to read it now! :P)I enjoyed reading about the adventures that Caddie and her siblings went on... (I love that nickname too) Their uncle was funny and Annabelle was interesting... and they definitely made the right choice at the end. ;) I liked the chapter with the circuit rider's clock too!And I really like the edition I own, the illustrations are so fun!
A relaxing fun adventure book filled with genuine warmth. Excellent.
This enchanted book follows the tales and adventures of tomboy Caddie Woodlawn, much like Laura Wilder.
Each new chapter made me think, “What will happen to Caddie this time?” The author narrated this story in such a way that you felt like you were standing right there, in the corner of the cabin room, wading in the river, or witnessing the glorious moment when Katie opened the beautiful valentine.
You might have disliked Tom’s impish ways in the beginning, but later on had a change of heart when he gave a valentine to Katie.
