https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66723.Seeing_Voices
I have been working a fair amount the last year with software that produces signed language - so I had to read this book, where Oliver Sacks presents his take on the strange and wonderful world of Deaf culture.
In the first part of the book, Sacks tells the story of how Deaf people acquired signed language during the late eighteenth century and then had it snatched from them again a hundred years later by the utterly misguided decisions of educational theorists who thought it would be better for them to learn to talk; it is hard to read this section without feeling both sad and angry.

When I was a child my cousin asked me if I would rather be blind or deaf.
I didn't hesitate, I would much rather be deaf, I thought - a world of perpetual darkness was to be avoided at all costs.To be honest, I never really thought about this question again until reading this book.
I had no idea what costs deafness can bring with it.Sacks go through many of these costs and explains, in remarkably simple language, some of the 'age dependent' structures that form our minds - how certain rules of language need to be learnt at certain ages - and if they have not been they mostly will not be, ever.
I had no idea who Oliver Sacks was, what "deafness" means, where Gallaudet is, or what American Sign Language is.
It was only when I began to take American Sign Language courses from the local community college (to avoid having to take two years of a spoken foreign language, which just confused me) that I learned of a Deaf culture, a Deaf identity, and the struggle that Deaf people have faced over hundreds of years.
It feels like you are just learning another skill, not another language.I picked up this book because I've read Oliver Sacks' books before and never realized he'd published one about Deafness and Sign.
Книга про глухих - та невже?
Що ж, про глухих так про глухих - подумала я.
По-друге, в книзі міститься захоплююча розповідь про спільноти глухих упродовж історії, про освіту для людей, що не чують.
По-третє, це примусило мене задуматися, як так, що я дожила до 27-ми років, 10 з яких я вчилася в школі по сусідству з інтернатом для дітей з порушенням слуху і НІКОЛИ в житті не спілкувалася з людиною, що не чує.
Про різницю наших культур і про важливі питання інклюзивності.
Це спонукало мене вивчити абетку жестів для початку.
Невелика і захоплююча книга, раджу всім!
Oliver Sacks is a fantastic writer; thus, this book is a fascinating read.
he wrote it more than 20 years ago.
Cochlear implants didn't exist 20 years ago.
Mainstreaming special education didn't exist, people were still discovering that ASL was a self-contained language, ideas about agency and self-determination among populations of people who have disabilities have completely changed.
The Americans with Disabilities Act didn't even exist when he wrote this book, for pete's sake!Oliver Sacks is a good author and he wrote a good book, but developments in the field have shown his book to be time-bound.
I'd love to read the book he would write now!
In its first two parts, The Deaf World and Thinking in Sign, Oliver Sacks talks about Sign, explaining in an accessible way, its origins and some of its neurophysiological characteristics - neuroplasticity and language development are also recurrent themes in Seeing Voices.
After that, the author tells us about The Revolution of Deaf, which took place at Gallaudet University in 1988, when Gallaudet's students fought for a deaf university president.What really got to me in this book was discovering all the complexity hidden in Sign, in which the deaf build their culture and their own ethnicity.
Not just people with a common language and some similar characteristics, but a people, with its own social and cultural identity.
і, що цікаво, він пристойно – як на людину, яка оце щойно приїхала в нову країну, контактів із культурою якої раніше не мала, – розмовляв українською.одна з проблем (далеко не найбільша, на жаль) полягала в тому, що в селі, куди він приїхав, англійською пристойно не розмовляв ніхто.бідолашний американець опинився в ситуації, дуже схожій на ту, яку описує олівер сакс у зв'язку зі спільнотою глухих.
попри те, що він був особою розумною й цікавою, люди з довколишнього середовища комунікувати з ним могли хіба на тому рівні української, який у нього був, – але своєї проблеми в цьому не бачили, бо у них же з комунікацією проблем вроді раніше не виникало.
In the early 19th century, a few hearing people in France finally bothered to learn some sign language and used it to teach deaf people to read.
Yet many hearing parents of deaf children, instead of learning sign, force their children to learn speech.
Instead of true sign languages, signed transliterations (like Signed English) are used for teaching.Wondering if there had been any improvement, I started digging around a little, and at least I can see there's a very long way to go.As well as being an important history, this book has lots of fascinating information and reflection on language learning, especially in early life.
This book is 25 years old, and while I'm certain there are more recent books on the topic of deafness, this one is still worth reading. It's not just about deafness, but about language, and how language shapes our brains, and how important language is to developing as a person. In just 150 pages, Oliver Sacks managed to blow my mind with things which had never occurred to me before.
Sacks goes into the history of educating deaf people, and he veers off all over the place into footnotes that are neither amusing nor informative.
Despite that, he does manage to put the history of Sign and boarding schools for the deaf into both a historical and international context.
Then, in the third section, you get people actually studying Sign, recognizing that they are real languages with real grammar and everything, and a deaf rights activism that results in the student takeover at Gallaudet.
I first read this book in 1992, and have re-read it several times as my prelingually Deaf daughter has grown up.
I disagree with the criticism that the book is "dated".
All books are "dated" the moment they are published; there have been developments in the world of the Deaf, but nothing that changes the nature of communication or the human condition.Cochlear implants have happened; and they work best, as one would expect, with hearing adults who, like Rush Limbaugh, have gone deaf and have neither the wit nor the empathy to join another culture.But cochlear implants were the third or fourth time that deafness has been "cured" in the last 200 years, and as incomplete as any of the earlier "cures".
a primeira faz uma abordagem histórica sobre os surdos e a surdez, e explica-nos como surgiu a língua gestual americana, como não é uma simples transliteração em gestos das línguas faladas, nem sequer um conjunto de gestos de mímica ou pantomima; antes é uma língua completa, com uma sintaxe, semântica e gramática próprias, fonte de uma cultura específica e riquíssima (teatro, poesia, literatura, dança), que, de certa forma, é inacessível aos ouvintes.2.
Caçávamos dois coelhos de uma assentada: nós, os "deficientes-ouvintes", poderíamos beneficiar de uma maior sensibilidade visual/espacial e a surdez deixaria de ser impedimento à integração na sociedade de pessoas com enorme potencial.Costuma dizer-se que "burro velho não aprende línguas", mas eu não quero ficar para trás.
Wonderful!
!!لأول مره أحس ان الصمم أسوأ من العمىسمعته أوديو... وللأسف مالقيتش نسخه إلكترونيه مكتوبه علشان أقدر أتابع وأقصص منهد/أوليفر كعادته وبأسلوبه الممتع بيدخلنا عالم الصم والبكم ...عالم محروم لأبعد الحدود :(تجربة للي حابب يفهم جزء صغير من مدي حرمان الأصمدي أغنيه مترجمه للغة للإشاره... شوفوها الأول -مره أو اثنين- من غير صوت, وبعدين بالصوتhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VwYFaP...الكتاب ده لازم يترجم للعربي
De médico que via a surdez como uma deficiência auditiva, ele conta como seus estudos levaram-no a descobrir não só a imensa complexidade e beleza da língua do sinais, mas também toda a cultura surda, e nos leva junto a descobrir que as maiores dificuldades encontradas por pessoas surdas estão no preconceito em relação ao uso da língua de sinais.Há um grande embate no campo da educação de pessoas surdas: por um lado, uma corrente apregoa que o uso da língua de sinais como língua materna é o melhor para o desenvolvimento da pessoa surda, enquanto outras preferem a predominância do aprendizado da língua dos ouvintes: ou seja, que as pessoas surdas aprendam a vocalizar e a fazer leitura labial, sem passar pela língua de sinais.
The author is a neurologist and so much of his book (specifically the chapter Thinking in Sign)covers how language is developed from an infant on in someone hearing and then how language is acquired by someone deaf.
Before reading this book, I had a deep desire to learn ASL because my experience has been that although other family members sign, and can interpret for me, when we predominantly talk we are causing an isolation that leaves me feeling horrible.
Our educational system may focus more on mainstreaming, but that really doesn't seem logical to me (for pre-lingual deaf children) given that mainstream schools have no consistent focus on bilingual Signing.
Before reading this book, if asked directly about Sign, I would venture to guess that it is probably some literal translation of written/aural language, maybe a sort of visual Braille-like formation.
In great length, Sacks talked about the “linguistic use of space”, the vastly different modes of meaning-making aurally vis-a-vis visually.
I wonder if one can learn Sign language, would it enhance the way we think?The last segment is the student strikes at Gallaudet University in 1988, a key event in the Deaf Culture.
Overall, I enjoyed this book and perhaps gained some appreciation in Sign language and the unique culture of the deaf.
Blow up your idea of what language is, by reading this book.I get that it would have been interesting to hear Dr. Sacks's thoughts on CI, and that the politics and science of Deafness he documented in 1989 have progressed now, but I think it sells short how he clearly explained what he learned about What Makes Us Human from exploring the language and culture of the Deaf community.
If you want to understand Deafness and Deaf people you must read this book, along with When the Mind Hears: A History of the Deaf [Harlan Lane] and Understanding Deaf Culture: In Search of Deafhood by Paddy Ladd.
Another fascinating Oliver Sacks opus, this one about the language and culture of the Deaf.
Changed to 4.5 Stars.You know those questions that begin with What was life like before ------?
This book answers such a question:What was life before Deaf Community stood up for its rights?Even Better: What allowed Families, Schools, Science to cooperate with the Change?What was the Crisis that led to the ChangeHow immediate was the ChangeSacks wrote this small jaw-dropping informative book at the just the right time to tell what led up to the Student Protests at Gallaudet in March 1988.
Many even agreed that they were less than.I am shaking because I continue to support my friend Joanie with a mild mental limitation, reminding her that she is an adult.
This was published in 1989 so it's a little dated: it doesn't include insights from recent research on neuroplasticity and language, and the Americans with Disabilities Act (1990) has changed the stigma around deafness that Sacks describes. But I still thought it was a wonderful book - Sacks's account of the "Deaf President Now" revolution at Gallaudet University is emotional and enthusiastic, and his general fascination for sign language and the minds of the Deaf is infectious. And the endnotes - wow they are substantial!
The first part is absolutely amazing, the most engaging part of the book probably, where Sacks describes how deaf people were unjustly treated in the past, feelings about being deaf, and a delightful part with insights of linguistics of Sign, which is a must read for anyone interested in languages I think.I couldn't stand though the part of praising-the-deaf, where I couldn't continue reading on, as I didn't find useful spending time reading several pages of glorification.
Also, redundancy in information is not helping here (although that is present in most of the books I read from him).
There are some things, some existences that just cannot be explained.
It's a tough existence that's darn near impossible to even imagine, but this book gives as good of a overall peek as you'll ever get.2018: Not sure what I meant by "language-less" when I wrote this.
I hope I was referring to the "Wild Boy" and the like, people who were literally deprived of languages/communication.
Not the Deaf/signers.
After delving deeper into Deaf culture /ASL, I need to reread this book to give a more robust (and accurate, if my first review is as misguided as I'm suspicious it is) review.
Actually I've read this twice in Finnish, but there's no entry for the Finnish edition. The Finnish edition can't be bought anywere anymore as new since no new editions/publications have been made in years and the first ones are all sold out, but it's listed in many libraries.
At once, scientific and personal, Oliver Sacks delivers a profound, moving and at many times emotional study and exploration of the world of Deaf People (capitalising intended) and Sign Language.Set in three parts, 'A Deaf World', 'Thinking in Sign' and 'The Revolution of the Deaf', Oliver Sacks begins his magnificent book by giving a thorough detail of the modern history of the Deaf, their struggle as a people, the rise, fall and rise again of Deaf and Sign education and the often-changing mood, awareness and perception of Deaf People and their language (by Deaf and hearing alike).This is followed by a brilliant, well studied and researched, exploration of the many factors contributing to the conditions of Deaf People and of Sign Language as a whole.
The short book was such a wonderful introduction to the world of the deaf that I’ve dared to enter it, hoping to access their intimate and beautiful language and culture.The book’s first section contains a fascinating history of deaf culture and the origins of American Sign Language.
Oralist education models, then, add insult to injury by wasting so much time on arduously teaching them to speak phonetic sounds they cannot hear, leaving little time for transmitting information.True sign languages are complete in themselves and have a radically different character from any spoken or written language.
Anyway, I was interested to hear Oliver Sacks' perspective on Deafness as a neurologist, so I decided to give "Seeing Voices" a go.This book definitely shows its age, having been published 25 years ago (before the Americans with Disabilities Act – and, indeed, the UK's Disability Discrimination Act – came in, as well as before cochlear implants became widespread).
However, it offers an interesting perspective and is worth reading for that reason, as well as the topics it covers and being a product of the time in which it was written.
O autor mostra claramente nos seus estudos e casos que a lingua de sinais é a melhor forma de integrar o deficiente auditivo na sociedade, principalmente quando a surdez se instala muito cedo, antes da aquisição de outra linguagem.
O livro mostra a história das escolas para surdos, como elas começaram, seus pioneiros, e como um século de desenvolvimento foi retrocedido quando os legisladores ouvintes proibiram às escolas de ensinar a língua de sinais obrigando o ensino da linguagem oral, desenvolvida com muito esforço por aqueles que não escutam.
Certamente é um livro importante para quem se interessa por linguagem e pelo mundo dos deficiente auditivos.
