https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48764.The_Mystery_at_Lilac_Inn
There was certainly a lot of action and danger for Nancy in The Mystery at Lilac Inn. As usual, multi talented Nancy has no problem solving the case all while conveniently and artfully dodging danger. It certainly helps that luck and fate sure seem to be on her side. She always seems to have the right tools, props, money, fatherly advice, and police assistance at her disposal. A more complex mystery than the others in the series so far, and more challenging for young readers, but an exciting and unique mystery for young fans of the genre.
i don't know what it is, but these are like candy. they crack me up (so quaint and implausible!), but i keep on reading and as soon as one is over, i pick up the next!
I'm just saying, if I were Carson Drew, Nancy would never leave her room. She'd be locked in there for life.
We know Nancy's in danger, but she's Nancy and she's an amateur detective, so like, you gotta accept some uber-unrealism.Nancy is trying to help a friend, Emily, newly engaged, who's purchased a rambling old inn, the Lilac Inn, which she hopes to 'make a go' of.
We meet Emily's lovely, elderly aunt; an arrogant activities director who sneers a lot and makes unkind comments about our Nancy; some inn employees who are grumpy and overall nasty; and assorted 'others' who I had a hard time keeping track of.
So Nancy moves into a cabin on the inn's property to figure out 'what's going on,' along with her trusty sidekick, Helen.
This was the Nancy Drew book that got me hooked on the series when I was 10.
My mom brought home several of the Nancy Drew books that a friend had given her for me that her daughter had outgrown.
I've leant them to the daughters of friends and my mom's friends, but I've never given them away - because, unlike the daughter of that initial friend of my mom's, I've NEVER outgrown them, and I don't think I ever will.I'm hoping to get time in this next year to begin re-reading them all again.
I love the Nancy Drew mysteries, the style and time they were written in intrigues me. The mysteries are quite good too, meaning I wasn't able to solve this one. I was fooled by a red herring. The food descriptions are especially mouthwatering. A nice afternoon read.
This book includes four nicely-scanned full-page grayscale images and "The Nancy I Knew", an introduction by Mildred Wirt Benson, who wrote this book (to an outline provided by the publisher) under the Carolyn Keene pseudonym.The introduction is in some ways the best part of this book; Benson notes that the first three books sold well, but when original publisher Edward Stratemeyer died, his inexperienced daughters took over: "Overnight, Nancy become more of a home-type person, in early chapters focusing on household responsibilities." Also, "The syndicate's new owner asked that I make the sleuth less bold and that abrupt sentence endings be avoided.
As a child I read tons of Nancy Drew, recently I found out that in the 1950's and 60's the earlier books had all been rewritten. This book is the actual 1930 edition. I must say I didn't like this Nancy Drew very much, she was spoiled, elitist and racist. If I had read an earlier copy as a child i'm afraid I would have stopped at that one. The Mystery of Lilac Inn 1961 edition. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ this is the Nancy Drew that I know and love. It's the same characters but an entirely different storyline. This i
As a child I read tons of Nancy Drew, recently I found out that in the 1950's and 60's the earlier books had all been rewritten.
This book is the actual 1930 edition.
I must say I didn't like this Nancy Drew very much, she was spoiled, elitist and racist.
If I had read an earlier copy as a child i'm afraid I would have stopped at that one.
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ this is the Nancy Drew that I know and love.
This is the book I read as a child and still enjoyed reading again.
It was fun reading both books and realizing the differences in the eras.
When I was in 4th grade, the table I sat at in the school library was adjacent to the shelf where I could eye those inviting spines labeled: Carolyn Keene. I read at least one a month that year.Returning to her as an adult, I'm delighted to find Nancy Drew as awesome as I remember her. The writing is quaint, but strong enough to stand the test of time. This particular volume was chock-full of Nancy-in-peril scenes, but also pretty convoluted in the plot department and some bits of the conclusion seemed to come out of left field.
So far, this is my favorite Nancy Drew case. It really had me wondering what was going to happen. Even though it's a juvenile book, it still had me fooled!
Nancy Drew and her friend Helen are traveling to Lilac Inn, which their friend Emily just bought.
Before they can even arrive, the canoe they were traveling in capsized.
Things get even more mysterious at the inn, where unexplained things have started happening.
And back in River Heights, someone is impersonating Nancy.
So many different elements are introduced that it becomes overly convoluted and takes the villain explaining everything for the better part of a chapter in the end.
Most of the dated elements will be okay, although kids might be thrown by Nancy’s charge plate.
I do believe this is one of my more favorite Nancy Drew mysteries. The story truly had me baffled until the final strings were pulled. After Nancy's friend, Emily Willoughby, has revealed that odd events have been taking place around the inn, Nancy Drew is on the job. But that is not her only problem, because someone in River Heights is actually impersonating Nancy... and getting away with it! How will Nancy cope with all the mysterious occurrences? Better yet, how can she capture her own double?
A trip down memory lane! This book should have been called The Mysteries at Lilac Inn as the stolen diamonds was just one of the many perplexing things going on in and around Lilac Inn. Who is impersonating Nancy? Who stole the lilac bush? Who or what almost capsized Nancy and Helen's canoe? What's not to love about a Nancy Drew mystery? Great characters, action on every page, and the best titian blond sleuth ever! Writers of adult novels should take a page from Carolyn Keene's book and fill the pages with action instead of "filler".
A small trip to the past! This book originally published in 1930. Terms like blue pipes, skin diving and charge plates in leather cases are charming. Yet, the Nancy Drew Series as well as the Hardy Boys has always been a fun place to start with mysteries! Young kids may like the current series better!
My least favourite Nancy Drew so far. Why the hell was everybody so sanguine about a time bomb being planted and almost killing two young girls? It was like, a bomb? The whole cottage was destroyed? You were almost murdered? Crazy! What clues did you find, Nancy?
Nancy Drew returns in another thrilling mystery that just keeps making this series better and better.
I like the mystery - it was pretty cool and interesting. This is for the revised edition since that's the one I've read so far. :P
3.5 Stars
I have always been a fan of Nancy Drew novels and so it was a delight to be able to return to these stories and engage once more with Nancy.
I still find her all of these things, but reading now I find that the stories are a lot more simplistic and the mysteries a little unrealistic.
Still, following Nancy's progress through the novel is engaging and entertaining.Nancy as a character is fascinating to me.
She's empowered and intelligent but she's also beautiful and feminine.
This further complicates how Nancy is presented and the stories which she engages in.
Nancy and Helen Corning are stay at historic Lilac Inn, which are owned by their mutual friend, Emily Crandall, in preparation of Emily’s wedding.
But strange happenings and hauntings occur, which threaten to spoil the wedding, not to mention the lives of Emily and her fiance, Dick.
In addition, Nancy discovers she has a wicked double, who is stealing items at River Heights stores by using Nancy’s charge cards.
But, for some reason, I started to lose focus on Nancy’s fourth mystery.
I am captivated by the descriptions of food in these Nancy Drew books.
There seems to be at least one major meal per book, meticulously described.The Lilac Inn dining room provides an excellent luncheon.
First course is beef broth.
Following that is "creamed chicken on toast, peas, salad, and iced tea."Oh, and for dinner is a real treat!
Let's all sing,' Helen answered.Honestly, this little time capsule of a book makes me want to gnaw on my shirt collar, I'm so charmed.Finally, here is a non-sequitur that needs no comment:"My disguise certainly boomeranged," Nancy thought in disgust as she snapped off the flashlights in her sleeves.
I loved this series when I was a kid. I think partly it's because I liked and could relate to Nancy, and it's always a plus to enjoyment when you can see yourself in the shoes of a character you respect.Looking back on it now, I can see that it did have issues, but it's still an amusing story. I remembered some of the mystery from my youth, guessed at other parts, and was surprised by still other parts. Worth a read, but not a must read.
Another typical Nancy Drew story, where Nancy is smart, independent, and a mystery solving sleuth, though she needs to be a little more careful as she did have to be rescued off of a burning, sinking boat in this one! My daughter loves these stories though, so what can I say, I'm sure we will read more of Nancy's adventures.
This was such a fun story! It is my favorite of the four I've read so far. For some reason I never read any Nancy Drew books when I was growing up, but I'm having a blast reading them for the first time as an adult. I definitely recommend this one, I enjoyed every minute of it!
I swear this just reeks of absurdity but it's so sugary. I can't believe how impossibly silly the scenes and actions are! And yet, I read on because I'll always love a good  Scooby doo hunt. On to the next!
I love reading this series when I was younger. However, this story seemed absurd just because Nancy Drew was just lucky to stay away from being badly hurt! The mystery part was well thought of, though it did sound a bit ridiculous when things were finally revealed.
This is a really good book you never know what is going to happen it all just suddenly pops up.
A Quickie ReviewYou know what to expect from an installment of an established franchise, and that's just what you get here. Not much to say other than that.Score: 4/5
this book is my favorite so far. I haven't read much so far. This one was definetly my favorite
I enjoyed this mystery just as much as the first. I look forward to reading even more!
