https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28477789-stuck-up-suit
I met my husband when I was sixteen and he was nineteen.
He wasn't much of a fancy dresser, so he never wore suits like Graham did in this book.
He actually still wears some of the same shirts he wore when I met him as a teenager.
There's this one shirt that's so worn down that it has a hole right over his right nipple.
But he wears it all the time and his nipple just hangs out like it's part of the damn family.I liked this book.
I wish my husband owned a suit.
It's LIVE early on Amazon!Amazon: http://amzn.to/1qGPRdEiBooks: http://apple.co/1Qbwy57B&N: http:// bit.ly/1UC8wDCKobo: http:// bit.ly/1RJdUif      It's LIVE early on Amazon!Amazon: http://amzn.to/1qGPRdEiBooks: http://apple.co/1Qbwy57B&N: http:// bit.ly/1UC8wDCKobo: http:// bit.ly/1RJdUif★ Finished Stuck-Up Suit but want more Graham and Soraya? ★ Free BRAND NEW BONUS scenes from Stuck-Up Suit, Rookie Move and The Score! And everyone that enters is automatically entered in a chance to wi
It's LIVE early on Amazon!Amazon: http://amzn.to/1qGPRdEiBooks: http://apple.co/1Qbwy57B&N: http:// bit.ly/1UC8wDCKobo: http:// bit.ly/1RJdUif
  
  
  
  
  
  It's LIVE early on Amazon!Amazon: http://amzn.to/1qGPRdEiBooks: http://apple.co/1Qbwy57B&N: http:// bit.ly/1UC8wDCKobo: http:// bit.ly/1RJdUif★ Finished Stuck-Up Suit but want more Graham and Soraya? ★ Free BRAND NEW BONUS scenes from Stuck-Up Suit, Rookie Move and The Score! And everyone that enters is automatically entered in a chance to win signed paperbacks, including PLAYBOY PILOT! <3 Easy entry ➜ http://www.subscribepage.com/i1w7o8
She definitely made Graham work for it, which was exactly what that stuck-up suit needed.
He is the type of character that you love to hate.
I have a weakness for A-holes, what can I say!This book had me doubled over in laughter right from the start, which was a nice change from the "heavier" stories I'd been reading.
I loved the way Soraya brought Graham down a few pegs.
This one was a real piece of work, but it did make for some angst.As a whole, I loved this story.
This book definitely worked for me.
WATCH BLOG VIDEO TRAILER OF THIS BOOK ON OUR TOP READSAPRIL'S TOP READS TRAILER4.5 ★★★★ Mr. Big Prick StarsGenre: Contemporary RomanceType: StandalonePOV: First Person – Dual  "There were no coincidences in life. This journey we took, however fucked up of a turn it made, was meant to happen for us."   This book sucked me in from the beginning, it was hilarious and I fell in love with both characters Graham and Soraya. It all started with a regular day of work where Soraya meets this cocky prick
This book sucked me in from the beginning, it was hilarious and I fell in love with both characters Graham and Soraya.
I absolutely loved her personality from the beginning.Graham Morgan; successful business owner had his heart broken and he had been betrayed.
This column is also used in a wonderful way throughout the book; Mr. Prick takes advantage too and he soon realize he knows more about Soraya he knows exactly which columns she writes.
I loved it so much.There were ups and downs once Graham and Soraya where finally able to compromise with each other but I wouldn't have wanted any other way.
Update: Bonus scene from Stuck-Up Suit!
I loved reading Graham & Soraya 's story so much.
They were so hot and funny together but especially I really enjoyed their sexting skills...
:D If you're looking to read someting cocky and funny, don't waste your time and read this book asap!!!
:)Ps. I have to mention Chance Bateman aka Cocky Bastard and that goat too.
OMG mate, it was so lovely to see this guys together.
:)And if you wanna know more about Chance, pls read "Cocky Bastard" by Vi Keeland&Penelope Ward.
You won't be regret for reading it.
This book crawled under my skin and disarmed me in many ways possible.Stuck-Up Suit begins when Soraya Venedetta and Graham Morgan had a crazy interaction on the train.
When Graham accidentally left his phone on the train, Soraya picked it up and decided to return it the following day.
Graham and Soraya's love story, all in all, managed to make me fall in love!(P.S. Thank you to my lovely friend Hulya for recommending this book to me.
STUCK-UP SUIT IS LIVE EARLY! LIMITED TIME RELEASE PRICE OF $3.99 (CHANGING TO $4.99 after release. Lowest price of the year!)Amazon: http://amzn.to/1S3LnpZ iBooks: http://apple.co/1Qbwy57 B&N: http:// bit.ly/1UC8wDC Kobo: http:// bit.ly/1RJdUif
4 *MBP* STARSOnce again this writing duo delivers a sexy, snarky, emotional, love story and it’s a hit! This story starts with our heroine, Soraya Venedetta who is a wonderful character finding the dropped phone of the sexy suit on the train. His behavior turns her off and what ensues with texts and thereafter is a great ride with the hesitate Soraya trying to guard her heart.  ”For all I knew, the second I gave in, he would be gone. And I didn’t want this to end. I loved the excitement of wond
4 *MBP* STARSOnce again this writing duo delivers a sexy, snarky, emotional, love story and it’s a hit!
This story starts with our heroine, Soraya Venedetta who is a wonderful character finding the dropped phone of the sexy suit on the train.
Graham and Soraya are wonderful together as they find their footing in a relationship.
You’re the only woman who’s ever owned it.”
Soraya struggles with doing the right thing when Graham’s ex’s secret comes out and she wonders what her place is in the situation.
”I was either the most selfless woman on Earth or the stupidest.
I can't even put into words how much I LOVED this book!I read a bunch of reviews before I dived into this one so I knew there was going to be a terribly cliche plot twist (view spoiler)[ secret child (hide spoiler)] I also knew that Graham was going to be a totally devoted hero. Something that seems to be a bit of a unicorn in Romanceland lately. So I figured the good would outway the cliche and boy did it.I ADORED both Graham and Soraya. The back and forth between these two was PURE GOLD. It ha
I can't even put into words how much I LOVED this book!I read a bunch of reviews before I dived into this one so I knew there was going to be a terribly cliche plot twist (view spoiler)[ secret child  (hide spoiler)] I also knew that Graham was going to be a totally devoted hero.
So I figured the good would outway the cliche and boy did it.I ADORED both Graham and Soraya.
I need more books with heroes and heroines like these two.
More books where the hero is devoted and doesn't run off to bang OW the minute there is an "issue" Give me more....["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It seems like they feel the need to add filler and drag the story so the book will have a decent length.
After his grandma had warned her of what would happen to the hero if he got hurt again?I might be part of the minority on this one, but if a book it's good, the story is complete no cliffy, a decent beginning, middle and ending even if it is only 100 pages I still pay gladly for it.
You'd think it was his best friend dying, but no.The good thing is that the ending is happy, it's not a cliffhanger and overall it's entertaining.It might look like I hated it, but I didn't.
Graham and Soraya were the complete opposite of each other, but that's what kept this story so intriguing.
I really enjoyed getting to see Soraya helping Graham settle down from his usual uptight ways, and it just went to show why two opposites attract and are so great together.
Graham with his daughter was ovaries-melting worthy, and I actually really liked getting that part of him in this book.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, I want to kick myself for waiting so long to read this book.
Soraya was an amazing character and her quirkiness was the perfect thing to read about next to Graham's business-man ways.
There was a beautiful man underneath that heart of steel.  Oh my heart! It was so cute. So lovely. So beautiful! I don't know if I can ever put into words how wonderful this book was!This was my first time reading these two authors, and honestly, I really didn’t know what to expect. Many of my GR friends seemed to love this one so I decided to give it a go, plus the cover makes me drool every time I look at it. I went into the book expecting another simple romantic story, instead I came out of
I don't know if I can ever put into words how wonderful this book was!This was my first time reading these two authors, and honestly, I really didn’t know what to expect.
I went into the book expecting another simple romantic story, instead I came out of this reading experience feeling like I lost my heart somewhere in this book, and I wonder if it will ever come back to me again.The story started off very funny and sexy that I got hooked instantly, and it kept getting better and better the further I read into it.
So, um these authors are pretty solid. And I normally like their books a lot, especially Vi's. But, is it just me or do most of their books have all of the same elements and plot lines? It's like they're all the same formula where there's always (view spoiler)[ a baby or a kid, usually a surprise kid, and a bitchy, trouble-making ex (hide spoiler)] I mean, this is like the 5th or 6th book by either or both of these authors where those two plots are used. Which is a shame because they're extremel
So, um these authors are pretty solid.
And I normally like their books a lot, especially Vi's.
It's like they're all the same formula where there's always (view spoiler)[ a baby or a kid, usually a surprise kid, and a bitchy, trouble-making ex  (hide spoiler)] I mean, this is like the 5th or 6th book by either or both of these authors where those two plots are used.
Any way, as my friend Jeannine says, this was a solid 3, liked it, but probably won't remember the names of the characters later.
4 Stars  Just a few thoughts.. I listened to this all day yesterday while I went about my jobs.. It's a first time I listened to a book and actually I really enjoyed it.. It's narrated in alternate voices just like the book. Graham's voice is Delicious, DEEEEEEPPPP and sexy which is exactly who his character is. And the female was done well too.. I'll definitely do this again.. I cleaned all downstairs, did the washing, cooked our dinner and listened on the way to swimming last night too.. I fin
I listened to this all day yesterday while I went about my jobs..
It's a first time I listened to a book and actually I really enjoyed it..
It's narrated in alternate voices just like the book.
Graham's voice is Delicious, DEEEEEEPPPP and sexy which is exactly who his character is.
I cleaned all downstairs, did the washing, cooked our dinner and listened on the way to swimming last night too..
I finished the whole book in a day..
I really had an awesome day cleaning yesterday Hahahaha this will be happening again.
I’m just saying - it trips me out that these authors can be so successful when the very foundation of their craft (you know, actual writing ability) is suspended on such a woefully stagnant level of mediocrity.
--Tiffanie DeBartolo (How to Kill a Rock Star)You can see the difference, right?
I can feel it when I’m reading.
So I don’t really not recommend this book or anything; I say go for it if you want to - you may like it!
- YES, I usually one-star books that I DNF.
Then it took a seriously twisty turn that I didn’t like when the hero finds out his (view spoiler)[bitchy, snobby, lying, cheating ex-fiancée’s adorable daughter is actually his.
I just loved the H/h together, and their playful Dear Ida advice column exchanges were particularly delightful and utter perfection and really made the book standout for me.
The ending was sweet, fabulous, and hilarious (view spoiler)[(Graham’s Poopface in Manhattan Dear Ida email made me laugh out loud) (hide spoiler)] and left a big, fat satisfied smile on my face.
STUCK-UP SUIT by Vi Keeland & Penelope Ward is a fabulously quirky romance. It's fun, sexy, sweet, light but not without depth ...a bit of angst and conflict but nothing heavy and dark, which was a total pleasure. From the first page...............started with a smile on my face and soon moved on to laughing my head off ......  The 2 main characters, Soraya Venedetta & Graham Morgan were a total delight....engaging and beyond endearing. Soraya Venedetta (I loved the one scene where Grah
From the first page...............started with a smile on my face and soon moved on to laughing my head off ......
The 2 main characters, Soraya Venedetta & Graham Morgan were a total delight....engaging and beyond endearing.
Soraya Venedetta (I loved the one scene where Graham's ex bitch girlfriend says...Vendetta?????)....I adored this woman.
“My life was far from Sex and the City.
She's fun, unique and totally fabulous......another unforgettable scene where she overhears the said ex girlfriend's friends gossiping in the ladies about Graham......does Soraya disappear into the shadows???
And Graham Morgan........hell, I loved this guy!!!!
::: FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED :::   “Gorgeous, arrogant, and pissed off?”   I chuckled a little. “Yeah, that’s him.”   What an awesome book!! I read it in one sitting because I could NOT put it down even for a minute!! It was exactly the kind of book I was looking for. The story started off as sexy, sassy, and swoony with an intriguing story and great banter. Then it turned hot and heart-warming, right before a huge twist that brought all the angst and feels!! It was the perfect blend of everythin
Then it turned hot and heart-warming, right before a huge twist that brought all the angst and feels!!
All good things must come to an end, right?
Despite how gorgeous he was, he certainly came off as closed off and arrogant before she really got to know him, but my gosh did he ever have the sweetest side once he began to open up to her.
Isn’t that your new secretary?”“Yes. I’m going to wash her tits.”Soraya chuckled.
"No one knows what's going to happen from one day to the next, but if the world were to end tomorrow, there's no place I'd rather be than right here with you.
Cute story. It flew by and I enjoyed the dynamics between the hero and heroine. The blurb made me think they'd have more of a text courtship before meeting, but that happened pretty quickly. A few unpredictable moments kept this story rolling forward, I would recommend it to anyone who likes contemporary romance.
So suddenly, he dropped his phone on the way out.I might have picked it up.I might have gone through all of his photos and called some of the numbers.I might have held onto the mystery man's phone for days―until I finally conjured up the courage to return it.When I traipsed my ass across town to his fancy company, he refused to see me.So, I left the phone on the empty desk outside the arrogant jerk's office.I might have also left behind a dirty picture on it first though.I didn't expect him to text back.I didn't expect our exchanges to be hot as hell.I didn't expect to fall for him―all before we even met.The two of us couldn't have been any more different.Yet, you know what they say about opposites.When we finally came face to face, we found out opposites sometimes do more than attract―we consumed each other.Nothing could have prepared me for the ride he took me on.
I'm sure Penelope and Vi could write a hot and steamy love story even with this type of characters:)))I enjoyed this book, but it wasn't my favorite..it was funny and kinky in all the right places, but it didn't have something to just blow me away as I anticipated.
I got the hot story, the chemistry and the smart dialogues that I'm used to, but their trademark was not so persistent in this book.
The story had a certain soup opera flow, with instant chemistry, push and pull, give in to the feelings, the surprise, the ex girlfriend etc..
Then there were some "other parts" that made me uncomfortable: like Graham reminiscing on the past events with his ex when she gave him a lot of blow jobs under his office table...Soraya hearing from Graham's ex what they did in that summer house that they bought together in the past..."If you were to disappear, after a few weeks, I’d be back sucking him off under his desk, and he would forget you even existed.” I flinched.
5 Stars!(ARC provided by author) Soraya Venedetta is an Italian woman living in Brooklyn. She works as an assistant for a daily column called Ask Ida. While on the train to work one morning she has a chance encounter with a gorgeous stuck up suit. This man looks like a Greek God, & is sitting across the aisle from Soraya. She knows they are complete opposites, but she still can't take her eyes off of him. With one glance she can tell he oozes success, wealth & arrogance, but wow is he ho
This man looks like a Greek God, & is sitting across the aisle from Soraya.
She finds out this powerful beautiful man's name is Graham Morgan & he owns Morgan Financial Holdings.
When Soraya finally goes to the trouble of tracking down Graham's office to return his phone, the cocky prick won't even bother to see her.
Graham continues to pursue Soraya till she finally agrees to go out with him.
Soraya soon gets to know the real Graham & learns he's beautiful both inside & out.
Being with Soraya shows Graham what it's like to be truly happy again.
You know, there was a point where I was going to give this five stars, until the murderous disgusting typical angst and manufactured drama was inserted about 60% or so.This book reminds me why I typically DESPISE contemporary romances.
Soraya:I liked her at first, then she got so freaking annoying with her low self-esteem and doubt.
But Soraya had all these TYPICAL manufactured soap-opera doubts.This story would have been SO MUCH better if the authors would not have stretched out the dumb drama.
But then, it went too far in my view, and that is when I start to get pissed off with contemporary romances.There were some typical tropes here...
I have no idea what, everything was pretty typical, but it was really entertaining!
that's probably the secret to great books: no matter how good/bad they are, if the writing sucks, so will the book.By the end of it, I was pretty much jumping with joy and rooting for the characters (which rarely happens, so yay!).
It's not a very special book (you'll probably find the same idea in a lot of reads out there) but the writing is special and the characters are so much fun.
Although there was an annoying plot twist, everything turned out the way it was supposed to be in the end...Stuck-up Suit is the story of Graham Morgan (aka Stuck-Up Suit, Mr. Big Prick, Celibate in Manhattan, Fucked in Manhattan, Fifty Shades of Morgan and Poopface in Manhattan) and the beautiful, sexy, sassy and witty Italian Soroya Venedetta, with an “e” in the middle :)I laughed out loud all along the book; the banter between the two was hilarious.
I tend to take 1 point off for the cliché plot twist but then I want to give it full stars for all the fun I had and the ever lasting smile on my face whenever I think about this book.

The man, who looked like the world was against him, soon went down on his stop, but in his rush to leave, he ended up dropping his phone.
Soraya leaves the office pissed off, but before she gives the receptionist Graham's phone, she programs her number into his phone, naming herself "You're Welcome Asshole".
She lost the 'I'm a bad-ass woman and you know it' image as the story went along.
And I hated what she did in the second half (view spoiler)[ when she enlisted the help of her best friend's cousin to pretend cheat on Graham like WHAT THE EFF SERIOUSLY WHY.
I know, I know. I'm super late to this party. BUT sometimes life gets in the way of reading. Stuck Up Suit has it all; jerk hero (at least that’s our first impression), quirky heroine you’d love to be besties with, amazing chemistry, enough laugh out loud moments to keep you chuckling all the way through, a nice hit of angst to keep you on our toes and a swoon factor that will have you wishing for a Stuck Up Suit of your own.
I buddy read this with these lovely ladies Rachmi and Felita (Click their names to read their fab reviews)While in the subway on her way to work, Soraya Venedetta, an advice columnist assistant, notices a man in suit across her.
It's a hate-to-love story between a witty heroine and a jerk hero.
I LOVE SORAYA VENEDETTA FROM THE BEGINNING TILL THE END!
She's not playing hard to get but wants Graham to earn it before she gives into him.
The drama begins halfway through the book that complicates Soraya and Graham's relationship which involves Graham's ex-girlfriend, Genevieve [I can't tell you more because it will be a spoiler].
