https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251947.The_Small_Rain
I never realized as a kid that L'Engle just can't write believable dialogue.
It's interesting to me how, as I work my way through the L'Engle on my shelves, I keep complaining about it and following the complaints with "but it really doesn't matter".
The bones of the writing are so good that the flesh ...
wait, it's L'Engle, so: the soul of the writing is so good that the flesh is inconsequential.
First, I'm really annoyed with whichever Goodreads librarian classified these books by Katherine's MARRIED name, giving away the fact that (view spoiler)[she married Justin Vigneras although she is engaged to a man named Pete throughout the whole last third of the book. (hide spoiler)] So, thanks, Goodreads, for the major spoiler. In a book like this, whom a person marries is extremely important. It would've been nice if I actually thought (view spoiler)[ she was going to marry Pete. (hide spoil
Aunt Manya is a famous stage actress, and Katherine hasn't gone to school in years because she's been acting a small role in Manya's play and living a highly irregular life for a child of her age (she's ten at the book's opening).
She's not as philosophical/spiritual in this book as she is in later books, but there are some great passages where the characters are expressing their struggles and doubts and when they question life and existence that are very interesting and even beautiful.
I love experiencing a lost way of life through books.Second, this is L'Engle's first novel.
However, she also edits some scenes within what remains, making them far more idealistic and romantic rather than conflicted and in some ways quite disturbing.In Prelude, one of the bits that resonated most strongly was Katherine's loneliness and feelings that no one understood her properly.
This feeling became more pronounced when, at a boarding school which she loathes, she finally does make friends with another girl, Sarah, and they spend so much time together and become so close that Katherine can tell her things she has never spoken about before.
It's been a long time since I read this (18 years-I read it during the first year of my marriage), but I still remember that this book wrecked me. That might not sound like a recommendation, but it is: I love it when writing is that powerful.That year (1995) was my Madeline L'Engle year. I read books of hers I hadn't read and re-read what I had read before, and it was all grand. Madeline L'Engle feeding frenzies are good for the soul.
The story of a young woman raised by artistic types who undergoes various trials in her early life (death of loved ones, horrible boarding school, lack of peers, etc) and must stay strong and persevere in her music. I could see why I loved L'Engle so much when I myself was young--the amazing idea that one would just start having deep, passionate, meaningful conversations about life with people one had just met--and yet as an adult now, it seems slightly overwrought. As one of the characters comments, "The old will never understand the young." :)
Katherine is a child who seems to carry the weight of the world upon her artistic shoulders... a deep serious, almost brooding type of personality. She is the same as an adult.Good writing and a solid story can't be ignored, I suppose.But I think this story is one I should've read at an earlier stage of my reading journey. It just didn't go down as well as I thought it would. My reading habits and tastes have changed, quite drastically -and I'm more critical than ever.I don't know if this is a good or bad thing.
This is Madeleine L'Engle's first novel and what a beautiful book it is.
(I missed it when I was reading books from 1945.) The story opens when Katherine is ten years old.
Her mother, a famous concert pianist, is somewhere unknown to Katherine, recovering from a nearly fatal accident.
Her dream is to be a pianist, like her mother.
She also wants her mother.
She gets both of those wishes but their fulfillment comes with heartbreak, struggle and much loneliness.
Katherine's coming of age tale takes place between the World Wars.
I wish I had known of this novel in my early adult years.
The two books are very good on the artistic life, from its beginnings in The Small Rain, which covers Katherine's childhood and adolescence, to its later stages in A Severed Wasp, in which an older Katherine looks back over her life and tries to come to terms with her memories.
The Small Rain, which was L'Engle's first novel, is full of adolescent angst and emotion; A Severed Wasp is also emotional but is more contemplative.
I have read so many books in my life.
It is certainly, as she notes in her forward, "very much a first book".
The plot is, as other reviewers have noted, clumsy, and the dialogue, regardless of who is speaking, invariably channels L'Engle philosophizing and little else.That said, it is, on a personal level, one of the most important things I have ever touched, and my feelings for it are so deep that I am not sure how to write a candidly useful review.
I do not know if anyone else I know on here would like this book and, frankly, I do not care.
This was the first book I'd read of L'Engle's adult fiction.
I read her fantasy books as a kid and really liked them and I knew a bit about her own life, but somehow I never managed to get around to reading her adult books until a couple years ago.
This is her first published book and it shows in that it's a bit overwritten, but that said, I still really liked it.
It's a coming-of-age story, but it's L'Engle, so you know it's not going to be schmaltzy.
Tortured is more like it.
I knew reading this book was going to be a weird experience but I was unprepared for how beautiful it was going to be. L'Engle's writing is often lovely but sometimes lovely just for the sake of being lovely which I always claim to dislike and then feel drawn to anyway. I wasn't particularly fond of the characters but I liked the tone of this book and the cyclical plot a lot. It left me feeling melancholy and I love when books affect my mood like that.
A delightful coming-of-age tale, splendidly written.
THE SMALL RAIN kept me up too late several nights as I eagerly read on to find out what would happen to Katherine, the introverted pianist living among glamorous famous people.
Heartbreak and happiness, determination and ambition, all are expertly rendered.
There is, admittedly, a fair bit of white privilege, homophobia, and mooning over one man or another—one wishes for Katherine to fully realize herself and focus on her music, but that would be a novel written today, wouldn’t it?—but L’Engle has given what feels like an honest portrait of a smart, talented, brave, sometimes foolish, very young woman.
Even Madeleine L’Engle could write a not-very-good kind of self-indulgent first novel. And what’s with every man she ever meets from the time she’s 14 wanting to hit on Katherine? Ew...
A mother expecting her ten-year-old to manage her alcoholism; a stepmom encouraging her tween stepdaughter's shipboard romance with an aging married Lothario who has a stone-cold Nazi villain scar; a predatory teacher kissing his student; getting engaged to a guy because when you were a child and he was already a grown-up you had a pash on him, and, sure, that's not yucky; and everybody but everybody kissing the main character without permission.
But it's not a horror story!
With one exception, I suppose (sort of hilarious because I do think L'Engle softened on this issue down the road)...terrifying l-l-lesbians!!
I was also surprised how the book addressed issues of the changing social norms post-World War II (sexuality, abortion, lesbianism, divorce).
At times it was difficult to tell what the character Katherine wanted (other than to live up to her mother's legendary status as a pianist), but I think that's what makes it a true coming-of-age story - the character herself does not know what she wants, and lives on the cusp of adulthood where she is not yet able to fully make decisions for herself, and would not know how to even if she could.
Katherine is a serious, deep-thinking child who is determined to be a pianist like her mother.
As the book opens, she's ten years old, appearing in a play with her famous aunt, with whom she lives; she has not seen her mother in three years.
The novel spans the next eight or nine years of Katherine's life, including bereavement, boarding school, and her first romantic affairs.
Madeline L'Engle states in the introduction that it's not autobiographical, but some of Katherine's situations are hers; she sees her as a close sister.
Written in 1945, the book feels quite up-to-date in its emotional impact, despite being obviously dated in some respects.
this ranks as one of my favorite books of all time and definitely something i'd recommend to any females out there.
basically it's a coming of age book, sans your typical judy bloom-like horror stories.
i thought it was very well written (as tends to be my opinion about most l'engle books) and i immediately liked the character.
but instead of finding the same katherine that i had enjoyed in the first book, i found a much older version that liked to solve mysteries and was a little full of herself.
at any rate, the small rain is definitely a must-read.....especially for females in their teenage years.
I read this because I really love the book, A Severed Wasp.
This book is the prequel (or rather, A Severed Wasp is the conclusion) to the story of Katherine.
A Severed Wasp was written decades later and the writer has matured and grown along with the characters.
I probably won't re-read this because the writing isn't as good as A Severed Wasp.
However, I really enjoyed getting to read about Katherine as an adolescent and how it relates to the person she becomes in A Severed Wasp, when she is in her 70s and coming to terms with her memories.
Upon re-reading it, I realized just how downright strange parts of it are (ship's doctor hitting on 14-year-old Katherine, the adults in her life encouraging it, allowing Katherine to smoke and drink as a young teen, the distressing (to a present-day reader) gay bar scene.
I'm wondering how much of the strangeness is because of the time period it was written in and how much was L'Engle herself.
I also found myself wondering what this type of novel would look like now?
Looking forward to re-reading A Severed Wasp, the sequel that came many years later.

I used to read this author a lot as a kid, so when I saw this at the library I was intrigued. Musicians, New York City, coming of age...sure!Oh, no. Weepy women, domineering men, terrible dialogue. It's like Attack of the Clones without any Jedi and a much less pressing conflict. Side note: why does the main character seem to relish being babied? And why do the men like it? Gurl! Stand up for yourself.
Did not like it at all. I give a book five chapters before deciding if it's worth my time and I just couldn't get interested in it at all. The dialogue was awful and I couldn't care what happened to the characters. Many loved this book perhaps it got better after chapter 5 but I didn't even want to wade through it.
Hey there L’Engle, your homophobia is showing. Didn’t help either that I read this after your other very homophobic work, A House Like a Lotus.
In some ways, Katherine comes across as possibly on the higher functioning part of the autism spectrum, but some of her naive behavior is clearly from her unusual upbringing by two artistic parents, her father being a composer, and her mother a gifted pianist.
Katherine acts in plays but also is developing as an artist.
After her parents’ relationship fractures, Katherine spends time with each parent, eventually ending up in boarding school where she does not fit in.
She does find one kindred spirit, but that relationship is fractured and she plunges herself into her music.
I think this was her first novel (?), so perhaps that is why the dialogue is not great.
Her mother, a pianist, is in a terrible accident when Katherine is young, causing her to stay in recovery for three years.
During that time, Katherine stays with a friend of her father's.
Katherine is reunited with her mother early on in the story for a brief period of time.
The bulk of the story is when Katherine is at boarding school and her young adult years.
I breezed through this novel, mostly because I was so annoyed with her character.
Katherine is the child of distinguished musical artists.
This story revolves around her becoming as great piano player and artist in Europe.
Katherine has a hard time in a boarding school for girls and is very unhappy.
The piano teacher she loves the most moves to Paris and Katherine yearns to follow him but her father insists on her staying at the boarding school until she matures into womanhood, Katherine's talent is such that it sets her apart and she spends hours practicing playing the piano and not mixing with others until she finds a special friend but then things go the wrong way and once again she feels alone.
In her introduction, L'Engle says this was a first novel - begun in college, but not published unti much later.
Interesting story of a young girl's life from childhood to late teens.
She is from a musical family and is an excellent pianist, like her mother.
When her father leaves to marry a friend and her mother dies, she must reorganize her life.
Much of the story takes place at a boarding school in Switzerland, where she has trouble making friends, but meets a wonderful piano teacher.
Her story many years later is continued in A Severed Wasp.
Wow. I know it was L'Engle's first novel, but still. The writing may have been good (though not as good as her later works) but it was simply a narrative of complete selfishness. From every. Single. Character. No (or at least very little) redemption. Perhaps it is an accurate portrayal of the arts community from that time. But I read and finished it feeling completely frustrated and disheartened. No one acted with thought for anyone but themselves. Ever. I am now feeling g depressed and need to find something else to read quickly. How disappointing.
Abrupt EndingThis book had my full attention, reading well pat the witching hour. As soon as I rose, I was grabbing the page turner. Katherine in her odd upbringing lacked social skills and coping skills. However, her emotional inward suffering created her own passion driven playing. Finally returning to France, the ending is rather abrupt. Thankfully the next book in the series is excerpted. I'm in need of time to get over the staunch ending.
I am torn about this novel. On one hand, this novel tells of important experiences and struggles in a girl's life as she develops into a young woman. L'engle opens many windows into the creative world too, and shows how Katherine perseveres toward her passion. And yet, she never really measures herself except as a companion to the men in her life. Maybe this is just a different time, or maybe she grows to move on from this in the second book (I haven't read that one yet).
