https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16271.The_Intuitionist
Colson Whitehead’s The Intuitionist is a mystery about…elevator inspectors?
Or is it about an ideological conflict between opposing schools of elevator theory (the Empiricists and the Intuitionists) which surfaces when an elevator deemed safe by elevator inspector, Lila Mae Watson (an Intuitionist) goes into freefall?
Whitehead’s novel has the feel of a noir detective story replete with intrigue and espionage.
This fabled black box is rumored to contain knowledge of the perfect elevator, but there are shady characters who don’t want Lila Mae finding this box or revealing its contents.
Their creation has shaped the form and structure of cities; buildings with arrangements of floors vertically stacked ad infinitum up into the sky, a concept itself only possible as a result of reliable, mechanical elevation.
Just as the airplane compressed our world’s surface horizontally, elevators compressed theirs vertically, bringing the unrealized potential of the sky down to earth.Elevators aren’t just a large aspect of the literal plot of the novel, but used as a metaphor for the ongoing racial struggle of black Americans, among other things.
Because of course, intuiting what ails an elevator is completely ridiculous in the real world, but it’s oddly endearing in an America slightly off from our own.
When a brand new elevator crashes (thankfully, without passengers), it seems she and the Intuitionists are being set up to take the fall and enable an easy political win for the Empiricists.
Lila, unsure how to defend herself, takes a role in solving the issue after the head of the Intuitionists approaches her with a tempting lure--designs for Fulton's mythical black box seems to be in play but missing, a Holy Grail of elevator design that will revolutionize the city.In one sense it works.
The story holds, Lila Mae is sufficiently developed beyond allegory, the city is full of rich detail, the puzzle of the elevator guild interesting and the possible blueprint alluring.
Colson Whitehead has created a wonderful "film noir" urban landscape completely centered around the world of elevator inspectors.
This world of elevators and elevator inspectors has been lifted (pun intended) up to a level of prominence rivaling special police forces in large cities.
Colson's elevator world is full of suspense and intrigue.I know it sounds very odd, but it works.
Everyone wants to get their hands on those papers!Throughout the story Colson has woven philosophical discussions about how we know what we know couched in the elevator inspector's world of the intuitionists vs.
You really have to read this book to appreciate it fully.
My elevator sometimes doesn't go all the way to the top._____________Here's the thing: at another time and place, I would probably rate this a 4.
However, in this current time and place, the complexity of the structure, an allegory that I never really "got" and the flat affect of the central character all kept me at arm's length when what I wanted, most, was to be immersed in a story.
If both, I just don't have the ability to manage the relationship between figure/ground that is required for the thing to work.It's about race, yes, sure, or so we're told.
In an interview with Salon.com following the publication of his 1999 debut novel The Intuitionist, Colson Whitehead discusses the freedom he has as an African American writer of the late 20th century.
I'm dealing with serious race issues, but I'm not handling them in a way that people expect."His description of the history of African American writing of the 20th century is pretty spot-on, as is his perceived position in this timeline.
But, as Whitehead goes on to point out in the Salon.com interview, he is far from the first black writer to attempt to break down this dichotomy.
This isn't just an allegory of race, as the many glowing reviews in the prefatory pages state.
It's an allegory of everything.
"Elevators" and "intuitionism" variously represent upward social mobility and its limits, the threatened gains of the civil rights movement, the anxiety of a post-rational worldview, challenges to good-old-boy cronyism, the enabling factor of the modern urban center and the possibility of its transcendence ...
When it doesn't, which for me was most of the time, it is 255 pages about elevators.
As someone who used to ride elevators up and down all day for a living (more or less), I know how boring they can be.
And it's not New York either because in Lila's world elevators are treated with more cultural reverence than sports cars and politicians rise to power based on their views on elevator inspecting.Keeping up?Yes, this is one of those books where the setup sounds faintly ridiculous.
It's the fact that the book works--an does it ever--that's a testament to Whitehead's genius.At it's heart, the novel might be broken down like this: 50 % hard-boiled detective novel, 30% speculative fiction, 20% literary meditation on the nature of being part of the underclass in a powerful nation.
http://www.weather.com/travel/worlds-...I read Whitehead's 'Zone One' for post-apocalyptic book club, and liked it - someone at our meeting recommended 'The Intuitionist' to me - but all they would say is 'Well, it's about elevator repairmen.
And there is the mystical philosophy of Theoretical Elevators.In this world, we are introduced to Lila Mae - an excellent elevator inspector, an Intuitionist, brilliant and passionate about her field, and a trailblazer - the first black woman to become an Inspector in an overwhelmingly white boys' club.A terrible accident occurs - and it looks like Lila Mae is going to be framed as the one culpable.
There was no one else to blame. The Intuitionist was my pick for a tandem read with my wife. We read it in a single day, one which left us bruised from all the cliches and the noir tropes which were further wrinkled with the riddle of race. I recall Mr. Whitehead was reported to have been spit upon by novelist Richard Ford. No, I wouldn't go that far. . .

I am reading this for a class that I am taking on black postmodern fiction.
It is clear that Whitehead read a fair amount of Pynchon and Barth due to the extensive presence of half-thoughts, sentence fragments, and commentary from the narrator.
On a personal level, I haven't been this bored reading a book in a while.
I don't particularly like any of the characters.
Honestly, this is disappointing for me to write because I loved Colson Whitehead when he read in Iowa City last spring.
I really want to like this book.
Lila Mae Watson is the first black female elevator inspector (there is one older man who is the first black elevator inspector), working at a time when the Department of Elevator Inspectors is sharply divided between two approaches to the inspection of elevators: the Empirical approach, and the Intuitionist approach.
When the unthinkable happens and an elevator Lila Mae inspected goes into catastrophic free-fall in the midst of a mayoral speaking event, she is thrown into the deep bowels of the social politics surrounding elevator inspection as she tries to clear her name.
After all, Lila Mae is never, ever wrong about elevator inspection, but it turns out she has lots still to learn about race, for which elevator inspection stands as allegory.
There are many things to like about Colson Whitehead’s first novel, The Institutionist: the prospect of reading about elevator inspectors (a subject, I’m pretty sure, no one has ever written about in fiction), the idealogical split between institutionist and empiricist inspectors (one group inspects elevators by observation and scrutiny, the other by ‘feel’.
The only part I didn’t like about the book was reading it.
The problem is that that’s really the only thing this book has got going for it when you actually start reading it.
And one more thing that bugged me: every time a new section started, we wouldn’t get the person’s name until halfway into the passage.
The story is one of mid-twentieth century type bigotry set in a Steampunk-like world where there are two battling philosophies on the nature and function of elevators, the Empiricists and the Intuitionists.
The protagonist is an African-American Intuitionist elevator inspector-ess who takes the role of the detective and becomes something more than that.
Among the author’s various accomplishments are the avoidance of all the puns and simple metaphors that spring to mind, including who is taking the fall when an elevator plunges to its destruction and the significance of the elevation of the African-American characters to become elevator inspectors.
Fabulous writing and wordplay, fabulous creation of a fascinating world that was almost real.This novel takes place in a past that didn't exist--where the Elevator Inspectors are revered, in a great city that has achieved verticality (and seems to be c1930 New York, or even 1950).
Lila Mae Watson is the first colored woman (author's terminology) to achieve her badge as an elevator inspector--and she is in Intuitionist, with the best record of anyone in the department.
She finds that Fulton's book Theoretical Elevators, vol II is an allegory, just as this novel is an allegory.
The let them prepare themselves for the second elevation."Really an incredible book.
This is possibly one of the hardest books to describe I've ever read. It's set in the past (somewhere from the 20s to the 40s?) in a metropolis (New York?.) It's part noir-ish mystery, part speculative fiction. It's about elevators and also a metaphor for race in America. The writing is generally fantastic, although I admit to skimming some paragraphs laden with technical elevator talk. I'm glad I read it, but it's one of the most perplexing books I've ever read. Still, I liked it.
I read Colson Whitehead’s first novel, The Intuitionist, in hard cover.
Not caring much for zombies, I picked this one, and am glad I did.Ostensibly, the story is about a conflict between two schools of elevator safety inspection – the Empiricists and the Intuitionists – who detect problems in elevators by the means indicated by their names.
There is an Elevator Inspector’s Guild election coming up, and Lila Mae gets caught up in the meatgrinder between the two factions, that are aligned with rival elevator manufacturers, making use of their government, organized crime, and shady trade journalist connections.
As well as a noir mystery, this book also alludes to the varying black experience in white America.
So dense that I had to take breaks to rest my brain, and so good that I (almost) want to take a college lit class where it's on the syllabus so I can hear people say smart things about it. (But I hate school, so that's not happening.) Whitehead's writing is rich and textured. Every single "minor" character is memorable. Just freakin' amazing.It actually reminded me of my fave book ever, Thomas Pynchon's Vineland, but without the wackiness. I don't know if enough people have read Vineland for that to be helpful in any way. ;)
Kaion says, "For sci-fi noir meets race noir, see Colson Whitehead's spectacular The Intuitionist," and I'm all whaaaaat, sign me up.
Reading this reminded me a bit of being a white girl from a small town of mostly white people reading Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man during my early undergrad years.
In both cases, I knew as I was reading it that what I was reading carried important and valid points about society and the role of colored skin in it, but I struggled to get what it was saying.After thinking about it for a couple of weeks, I now think my experience with The Intuitionist was not so much about small-town white-girl naiveté (as it was back then with Ellison).
In nearly all of the book's scenes the reader is given the briefest sketch of the surroundings and then buried under pages of back and forth dialogue--most of it exposition.The characters are similarly flat, particularly the heroine, Lila Mae Watson.
I lost count of the number of times someone said "you don't talk much, do you?" in regard to Lila Mae. This can work, but only if the surroundings rise to the occasion.The period is also vague--something I often like--but here, in combination with the other vaugenesses, it again feels like a crutch.
So here it is: Lila Mae Watson is an elevator inspector in a New York-ish city full of high rises.
She is an outlier in just about every way possible, but she keeps her head down and throws all her energy and effort into the job.And she's good at it—until one day, an elevator in a flagship municipal building goes into freefall just after Lila Mae has deemed it safe for use.
I'll just let my thoughts continue to bubble around in my head and encourage you to read this book yourself so that you can have bubbles too.
Immaculately plotted noir mystery with crystalline prose styling and razor-sharp observations on the stunning amount of faith on which modernity rests. Also, an intensive distillation of racial politics in America that avoids belabored historical exposition.
3.5. What a weird book! But wonderful! But overwritten. But still wonderful. You can see the seeds of The Underground Railroad here, I think.
DNF at 36% when it took an abrupt left turn into violent on-page torture. Just not in the mood for that.
What I wouldn't give to pick this book up in 1999 and get in on the ground floor, as it were, of Colson Whitehead.
His prose here, even at the outset of his career, dances and delights; his storytelling is gifted and compelling; his eye is as keen and striking as it is all these years later.
I can't think of too many other authors who take such joy in storytelling and I'm glad to see that it's been true of Colson's work from the very beginning.
I loved this book. I thought it was super imaginative in a bizarre way, setting up this complex world around something (elevator inspection) that is probably far more mundane. The extensive book long metaphor was fun to pick apart, and it was unsettling not knowing who was telling the truth. Didn't love the ending (kinda thought it was a bit of a cop out). Otherwise 👌🏻I had a fantastic teacher teach me this book, which helped me love it.
Unique and intriguing, but also wordy.
lovely and smart
