https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32320661-everless
What if the person to be feared is me? I know you shouldn't go into a book expecting the worst, but these days it's hard not to approach any new YA fantasy without some trepidation. The genre is often tropey and unoriginal. Publishers churn out versions of the same old story again and again. It's hard to find the hidden gems among the pile. But Everless really surprised me.It's not a perfect book by any means and Holland does fall into some traps commonly fallen into by debut authors - namely,
But Everless really surprised me.It's not a perfect book by any means and Holland does fall into some traps commonly fallen into by debut authors - namely, the huge infodump in the first few chapters, and some confusing descriptions of the world-building and mythology that I didn't really understand for a long time.
not what you first think.Everless introduces a world where time is currency and a person's time can be drained or added to through blood.
How awful to imagine a world where people bleed themselves, take years off their lives, to give their children a better life.
For instance, she could have snuck out; heck, her father literally came looking for her and instead of being like, 'well first things first, here are some of those blood-irons I carry around in an actual purse to prolong your life by a day at least', she only half listens as her father sputters a bunch of nonsensical riddles about the dangers that are looming over her head instead of, you know, outright telling her what they are.
The world-building is original in a way that makes you want to know more about it, and you don’t get lost every time the author explores it further because the reader is in sync with Jules.
I won’t lie, Jules is not going to become one of your favourite heroines of all time.
She doesn’t pretend to know everything, and more often than not she understands her missteps once she’s made them, but she’s willing to learn and ready to take control of her destiny.
Full of mystery, intrigue, and the best kinds of twists.The plot was super fun and unique, and for the life of me, I couldn't predict a thing.
I seriously couldn't set it down, especially after the 20% mark.In a world where time is bound to blood, and people exchange blood/time currency to live, we follow Jules, the protagonist, as she makes the difficult decision to return to work at Everless, an estate owned by one of the most powerful families in the kingdom (and dangerous, I might add).
But for real - this book seriously did everything right!
I never once had to suspend belief to get into anything and never wanted to read faster or have the story go back to spend more time on something.
There's a hint of a slow burn hate-to-love relationship with a brooding guy that's perfectly set up for the sequel, but Jules and her journey of self-discovery are the main focus in this book.
I totally loved Jules, too.
The story vaguely reminded me of Red Queen at times (which I loved).
December Fairyloot with link to close up pics ♥CLOSE UPSI was totally thinking this was going to be my first DNF book!
Movin' on..We have Jules who goes to Everless to work for the Queen and Lady Gold (Ina).
Ina is to be wed to Prince Roan and since Jules has had a crush on him all of her life, it makes her sad.
Prince Liam is the evil brother that Jules loathes because he tried to kill Roan when they were little and Jules saved him.
PS-I said all kinds of things backward in this review to throw everyone off =) Read the book and figure it all out!
Maybe I am a mystery— a secret— that needs unraveling... Or maybe, you are just one of a million special snowflake heroines.I really,  really  wanted to like this one. The premise is absolutely amazing - just riddled with poor execution and even poorer logic. Jules Ember lives in Sempera - a country where time is literally money. Lifetime can be extracted from blood and then is condensed into "blood-irons". The time can be re-absorbed or transferred if the coins are consumed.Most of the rich ea
Essentially, the book's entire plot consisted of pointless secrets, terrible character decisions and an annoyingly annoying true love.
It was maddening.For example, she decides to go to the Gerling Estate despite many (many) (MANY - LIKE YOU HAVE NO IDEA HOW MANY WARNINGS) by her dying father.
Sadly, I’m just at the point in my life where I feel like I’ve read this all before.And the aspect of this story that is really cool and different is the everyone’s lifespan is their currency.
Overall and again, I didn’t think was a terrible book by any means, it just felt like the same YA Fantasy story to me.
Plus, it had an opportunity to be very powerful to young girls, and it just ended up reading like you always have to love a boy.
Like, they felt so one dimensional to me, and Jules was the worst undercover character I’ve probably ever read about, despite her father’s very serious warnings.
My expectations were partially met, because Sara Holland delivered a unique, original story that managed to stand out amongst other YA novels, but there was something amiss that didn't allow me to become fully invested in the fates of her characters.Once upon a time, in the country of Sempera, the Alchemist and the Sorceress bound time to blood and metal.
Because Everless is more seductive and dangerous than she remembered, and the Queen's presence opens the floodgates of answers Jules never knew she needed.
- an author succeeded in keeping you in the dark until the time was ripe to serve you the answers.While Everless is undoubtedly a promising debut, I couldn't shake this feeling of unpleasant detachment from its main character, Jules.
DNF @157  This conversation probably will happen when I have grandchild in the future. Me: *reads a book on a couch*My Grandchild : Grandma!Me: Yes, my dear?My Grandchild: Will you tell me a story, please? Me: *puts the book down*Me: Alright, I'll tell you a story. My Grandchild: *sits down on a couch beside me eagerly*Me: Once upon a time, there was a girl who loved reading books so much or rather too much. She spent all her free time by reading books, because she thought there was no better co
Me: *reads a book on a couch*My Grandchild : Grandma!Me: Yes, my dear?My Grandchild: Will you tell me a story, please?
My Grandchild: *sits down on a couch beside me eagerly*Me: Once upon a time, there was a girl who loved reading books so much or rather too much.
My Grandchild: *gasps* was the book bad, Grandma?Me: My dear, the book was beyond bad.
She expected an action-packed story but the book did not give her that.
My Grandchild: Do you still have the book, Grandma?Me: I don't know, sweetie.
Plus lmao she made no sense some times.Actually what went down:Jules: I don't believe in magic.Her world: We literally draw blood out of your veins and turn it into money and it cuts your lifespan.Jules: yesJules: but like magic is not real apart from thatWoman.
EXCELLENT.• Seriously plot twists galore.• There is actually 80% focus on female friendships?!?
i remember being so excited for this when i heard about it. luckily, my library had it, so i decided to check it out today.i read it in one sitting.here i am now, wishing i got another book instead. no review to come. i don’t wanna waste my time writing a pointless review for a pointless book. cause let’s me honest, my review will be pointless because it’ll just me ranting. that’s pointless. it’s me wasting my time writing a review for something i didn’t like. see my pointless point?i got better things to do like um, read better books.
But oh well, it still got Almost There, and I feel as if this set up for more amazing from her next book.I do think that Everless falls victim to a few debut novel issues.
And though on the whole this skimmed and subverted plenty of my expectations, I did think there were cliche moments with regards to the romance.
Even more developed side characters could've added to the true pain of this world, the brutality of it, and made this book one of my favorites of the year.
DNF.
I know this review is going to be wildly unpopular, seeing as this book currently sits at a 4.17 average rating and most of my friends seem to be loving it, but I could not get into this book to save my life.
The only "unique" thing about it was the whole time = currency aspect, which I hesitate to call original, seeing as I seem to be one of very few people who remembers that Justin Timberlake/Amanda Seyfried movie In Time.
Thank you to HarperTeen for providing me with an ARC in exchange for my honest review!
-The world building was pretty dope and I really enjoyed reading about Everless, sometimes reading about palaces and politics bores the shit out of me but not this time!(view spoiler)[-Roan dying because Caro thought Jule's loved him BUT SHE REALLY DIDN'T.
So she probably loves Liam and just doesn't realize it yet, but that's okay because we still have another book to go  (hide spoiler)]There really isn't much I can say that I didn't like besides the pacing felt a little off at times, otherwise I REALLY enjoyed this book and can't wait until next year to get my hands on the next one.
Really enjoyed this story. I have not read a fantasy in a while which feels unique. This ticked that box!
“It’s possible to feel joy and grief at the same time. It’s possible to look forward to the horizon while mourning what you’ve lost.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐In our world time is money. But what if money isn’t bound to our time, but our life. What if every drop of blood makes us weaker, older? What if we can give a few years to someone we love only to make us die younger? In Jules life her family is losing time faster than anything. So she decides to go back to the place she ones lived - Everless - and hel
I mean look at the love interest - Liam - he was handsome, sure thing, kind and had a dazzling smile but I had the feeling he was as naive as Jules and had a touch of a bad side (I mean guys like him aren’t the most loyal ones, huh?
It was deep in his forest estate that the sorceress wove time into blood, and the alchemist found a way to bind blood to iron.”  Do you want to life forever?
I didn’t really like the love interest in the first 80 % of the book.
I liked the way her relationships changed and she couldn’t quite place her feelings.
I honestly need the next book right now like wtf ✨What I liked ✨1.The world-building YASSSSSS YAS YAS YASSS I LOVE THE PLOT AND THE STORY AND THE WORLDBUILDING I LOVE IT SO MUCH I MEAN TIME AS MONEY?
Jules might say that she loves him but in reality, she was just fantasizing her past and who Roan was as a child and not the man he is now.
That's because Jules was in love with the thought of himHonestly I had to pause and get a bit emotional because how the author portray this kind of romance was so accurate that it hits home so close that it got a bit hard to read.
Okay. I think I’m ready to write this review. *takes a deep breath* My plan is to write this as a letter to the book. Not to the author, mind you, I’m not a bitch like that, but to the book itself. Here it goes. (Mild spoilers ahead but nothing too revealing )  Dear Everless,  I could sit here and cry for days about how good the world building was, how interesting the premise was, and how haunting some of the scenes were. This was a good book, you know? Time is money? How did you even think of t
Not to the author, mind you, I’m not a bitch like that, but to the book itself.
Don’t try to enter the vault when you know you’re going to get a death sentence!
Don’t kiss Roan when you know someone’s going to catch you guys!
He turned into a little nice little puppy so quick, I was like, just tell me why there was even a need for a ROAN if you had Liam.
EVEN THOUGH U KISSED HIS BROTHER LIKE 5 DAYS AGO AND THEN DISCOVERED YOU DON’T LOVE HIM WHEN HE DIED.
I don't read a lot of fantasy or young adult fiction, as my love for it seems to be a bit hit and miss.
I sometimes find young adult fiction too shallow or angsty, and my ability to connect with fantasy really depends on how well developed the characters are or if there is a particularly interesting idea within the plot.
I absolutely LOVED it.Although Everless is set in a fantasy world of magic, with an evil Queen, and therefore has somewhat of a fairy tale feel to it, I had no problems projecting this story idea on to my own real world.
Everless was my last read of 2017 and boy am I grateful that I am ending the year with such a great read 🌟The world building in this story is absolutely phenomenal and so unique y'all I loved the concept of combination of time into fantasy - science fiction and fantasy are two of my favourite genres and although Everless was purely fantasy, I still enjoyed the incorporation of time into a world of queens and magic very much.
I am not sure what I was expecting before heading into this story but let me tell you, it wasn't disappointing in the least ❤️ Personally, I would have liked a little more romance or the addition of another POV but I am still excited to read about what will go down in the next book after that epilogue 😊
Imagine a world where time is used as currency, extracted from the blood in your very veins (turned into blood-iron coins).
The issue is..if you can't afford to pay, you must turn your blood into currency and lose time off your life.
There's a certain point you can't go back from because once your time is out..you will die, but not before losing your mind.Jules and her father are very poor.
She knows her Papa has been bleeding himself to pay rent and can't bare to watch him die when she knows there is another way to get the time even if he won't let her bleed for it.
And if Everless is anything to go by then, yeah, I seriously am.This story was captivating, intriguing, full to the brim with mystery and absolutely heart-wrenching throughout.
Through a lot of fantasy, I get half way (maybe less) before giving up as I often find the story to be way too slow with lots of beautiful sentences but not much content, however there wasn’t a moment in this story that I was left bored or distracted.Despite being YA, all the characters were richly developed and mature–a very refreshing experience compared to some YA I’ve recently read.
So happy I’ve come across this series.
Hmmm I felt like this was a very interesting plot but it could have been executed better.The characters weren't very remember able and the book kind of drug on.I may be getting burned out on YA fantasy though..
I'm just going to give a mini review because like I said, I feel so ill at the moment.
In the first few chapters a lot of information is thrown at you with different back stories and it was a lot to take in at some points.Some of the characters seemed to disappear completely from the story which was a bit of a shame because I wanted to know more, Jules as a main character slightly annoyed me and I can't even explain why, it was just one of those things.
I can't even begin to explain, but the twist I thought was coming slapped me across the face and was like not today satan!
Jules’s father begs her not to go, for that would mean facing the Gerlings once again and maybe being found out after all these years-But we all know what Jules decides to do, don’t we?
I am so frustrated because I’m reading all these amazing books that mean the world to me, but then I can’t put down my thoughts the next day like I used to…BEFORE.
I like to think I can post a review about a book I’ve read now more than a month ago, but even I find it difficult these days.
WHY EVERLESS MADE ME WANT TO RUN AT IT WITH A PITCHFORK 1. Cardboard cut-out charactersJules, the heroine, is another Special Snowflake who was blind to any sort of practical reasoning, and decides to disregard everyone's advice because she thinks she knows what's best. The side-characters aren't developed AT ALL and basically have zero personality. We're always told about their characteristics, but never really shown these. *coughs* *coughs some more*2. Typical storylinesSure, we're given some
A WTF-romance-love-triangle thingSee, I don't even know what to call it.
In reality, we have this one dude who the heroine's been crushing on for ages, who is an absolute sweetheart (or so we're CONSTANTLY reminded throughout the book).
Then, there are these creepy/weird hints of a possible love triangle with this dude's "mean" older brother.
Weird twistsThere was basically one "big" twist in the book, and it honestly felt like it came out of nowhere--it felt a bit forced, like there was no other possible solution to the problem/way to explain all the conflicts going on, so it came off as though any-way-is-better-than-no-way.
However, the biggest downside was how the story started slowly; however, luckily, it picked up towards the middle and end.Since this is Sara Holland's debut novel, I'm quite impressed with her originality.
Honestly, I think I'm more impressed by the originality of the story than anything else.
I thought the characters were fine - I mean, Jules didn't seem original, but she wasn't annoying either.
I truly didn't see that one coming.Overall, I felt like so much more could've been done with the idea, but what was done with it was fine (besides, there is another book on the way!).
Buddy Read marathon with Scrill :)_________________________________  "Your voice is an hour's rose; your soul a loving thief. I'll follow you through the fledgling woods, till your heart is mine to keep."  With vibes of Snow White and definitely a fairy tale-esque feel I was quickly swept away into the land of Sempera. Here time is of the essence, literally. Your time is payment for anything you might need, and ruling over the land is the Queen and the wealthy Gerlings who have time in abundance
From the beginning I really enjoyed this story, like I said, I was instantly swept up trying to puzzle out all the mysteries and wanting to find out along with Jules what exactly  is  happening with these rich and elite, because something is definitely amiss.
Jules was an interesting character to follow, she did seem a bit dumb at times, doing exactly what she was told not to the ENTIRE book.
I also feel like quite a few of the characters who were introduced to us throughout the book that could have been major key players, just dropped off the map.
There were too many loose ends to feel really satisfied with the way the book wrapped up.
This wound up being a really interesting fantasy adventure that touched on a lot of tropes but did it in a fun way.
Jules has grown up in a poor village, daughter of the blacksmith, where your blood can be sold to give years of your life to someone else.
The rich steal life from the poor, and when her father cannot pay the taxes on their house, Jules goes off to the castle to work as a servant to try to earn more “years” and save him.
There were several interesting love potentials and some nice friendships as well.
Pacing was nice with lots of cliffhangers and must-turn-the-page moments.
