https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/245624.The_Private_Life_of_Helen_of_Troy
Moving from my parents' library to my grandparents' -- this one has my grandmother's name, Charis Fairbanks, 1926, on the flyleaf.
John Erskine was a noted scholar - he created the Great Books program at Columbia University -- and a popular novelist in his day, pretty much forgotten today -- I'd say undeservedly.
The Private Life of Helen of Troy is a wonderfully readable novel of ideas.
Erskine is erudite but his style is not at all donnish.
It's talky -- actually, it's all talk -- but the talk is smart, witty, and thought-provoking.A side note -- Eskine was Anais Nin's first lover.
Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah There, you've read it.
The odd thing about this book is that it is practically wall to wall dialogue. There is barely any descriptive prose. I don't think I've ever read anything quite like it. After a time, the constant dialogue exhausted me. It was full of wit and the characters were enjoyable but I have to admit losing some interest after about the first half.
Ridiculous dialogue. Reads more like a play than a novel, a very boring one with absolutely no stage action.
I found it to be profound and memorable.
An ALL dialog bore, never read such a thing as this. So many words saying so little of any importance. I am so happy to be done with it.
I must say that it is a disappointment.The novel is set in Sparta after Helen of Troy returns to the city with her husband Menelaus after literally causing the Trojan War. As Helen was for all intents and purposes a war trophy at this point, one would think that the rest of her life would have been spent subservient to her husband and the other Greek warriors who crossed the sea and destroyed Troy in order to avenge her betrayal of her husband and the sacred violation of hospitality so important in the ancient world.
This satirical tale is told nearly entirely in dialog, as if one is reading a play.
However, the ideas appear to bear rather pointed remarks aimed at life at the time the author wrote the book, and even into the twenty-first century, mainly focused on the role of tradition versus morality and the roles of men and women.
On a personal level, this book infuriated me.
I give it three stars because it is not necessarily to my taste at all, but I did finish and I do recognize some of it's brilliance.
The bookstore, no longer there, was located in what had been the town's railroad station back in the days when trains still carried people from town to town.
The book was attractive not because of it author, I'd never heard of him, nor because of the quaintly erotic cover, that was long gone, but because of the title.
Anything about the ancient Greeks was of interest.As it happened, this chatty novel was quick and clever, often quite witty along lines which reading my grandmother's favorite books had long ago familiarized me with.
I definitely found many philosophical similarities with my current thought processes and loved the battle of the sexes vibe. No one who saw me with this book had ever heard of it, and I fear they took no interest due to it's age, but that would be a mistake. This tale is timeless.
One can't beat the dialogue and connections between men and women in this rendition.
Read 40 of 304 pages.
soap opera
This 1925 novel was recommended by Jung as a means of understanding the anima, the feminine unconscious in a man.
