https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145397.Me
Except that the stories are replete with digressions about that candy shop she used to visit as a child(of course, it's been torn down now), and that time she went to Italy with that writer and drove his Maserati, except she didn't drive and she needs glasses, and anyway, they almost had sex, but didn't, probably because he was eleven years younger, and also, she's decided to tell you this entirely in script form.
As Katharine Hepburn says, "FUCK THE ROOTS!"Upon re-reading this review years later, I can't believe I didn't mention this: much is made of her relationship with Spencer Tracy, while her relationships with women (ahem) are largely obscured.
I was standing on my head the other day and I got to thinking how probably unusual it is for someone of my age to do this.
He was sort of medium-sized and had a very handsome head.Any kind of English or WASP part I had a good chance for in those days.
What kind of insecurity could so dominate a man that he could imagine that it meant any more than that?
I meant exactly that--that I didn't like the name.
I have a happy nature--I like the rain--I like the sun--the heat--the cold--the mountains, the sea--the flowers, the--Well, I like life and I've been so lucky.
Comment: A darker chocolate makes for a richer brownie.Katharine Hepburn's Brownies½ cup cocoa or 2 squares (2 oz.) unsweetened baker's chocolate.1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter.1 cup sugar.2 eggs.1/4 cup flour.1 teaspoon vanilla.Pinch of salt.1 cup roughly chopped walnuts or pecans.Important note: The kind of butter you use is very important to the taste of of anything you cook.
I have actually found that I like cookies that have used shortening instead of butter, but I won't use shortening because it is unhealthy.
Note: The only difference I see in her recipe than in mine is that she uses more vanilla.
This is my favorite actress so I will try not to be too biased lol. One of my favorite autobiographies. It isn't a chapter book. It contains different stories of Kate's life as she remembers them. A must have book if you are a Kate fan.
I am not disappointed. I loved the storytelling and the pictures were lovely. A remarkable woman.
God, I tried to slog through this. It's Katherine Hepburn. It ought to be witty and profound and clever, and instead it was tedious and boring and who cares?I left it in an airport.
Ms. Hepurn's editor was napping on the job.
But, reading Me: Stories of my Life gave me what I always have wished for, what I used to dream about as a little kid, seeing Desk Set for the first time with no real comprehension of the plot.
I read this to hear whatever Kate wanted to tell, and did not hold to any expectations in regards to Spence.
In point of fact, Kate notes not even being sure if Spence loved her, or how he felt about her as a woman.
Classic Kate.Interestingly, the book somewhat concludes with Spencer, starting with the chapter "Love," all the way later at page 389.
At the end of the first one, she says, "more on Spencer later," but then the second "Spencer" chapter didn't deliver--it sort of left me wondering if their relationship wasn't a great one, because it seemed like she didn't have much to say about him (the saddest part to me is when she said, "I have no idea how Spencer felt about me.
Basically it seemed like after she talked about making the movies, she didn't have much else to say.
Very fragmented sentences--just trailing off into nothing--em dash here--em dash there--random person talking here...
If you like reading about film stars, and stage actresses from long ago, this book should fit the bill. This memoir of Katharine Hepburn is very entertaining, as she grew up in a very unconventional family, and worked both on the stage and in the old movie studio system. She had a long and exciting life, and dated a lot of high profile men, like Howard Hughes, and for nearly 30 years Spencer Tracy.
I've always admired Katherine Hepburn for being ahead of her time and unconventional in many ways.
Thought surely this book would focus on her nearly 30 year love affair with Spencer Tracy.
However, I barely managed to get through it.
Mostly about mundane things, her growing up years, how much she loved and admired her parents and siblings, etc.
Spencer only came in at the very end and there was no new ground covered.
I wouldn't recommend this to anyone unless they're really into that time period - the actors, directors, producers, etc.
Ever since I discovered the appeal of classic movies, I have been a fan of Katharine Hepburn.
To be honest this is the first biography that I chose to read for myself and I completely enjoyed it.
Although there may be some people that would fault her for the fact that she chose to do a nonlinear biography, I thought that the format was easier to stomach.
She chose the moments in her life she liked the best and wrote them down.
Katharine was completely candid in this biography and I enjoyed it very much.
I would recommend this book only to diehard fans of Katharine Hepburn.
I loved Katherine Hepburn and have read a lot about her. This is a very interesting account of her life, written with honesty and humility. She was a symbol of the social circle she was brought up in and the times she lived in. Fascinating, sad, triumphant. She lead a life without compromise.
What a cool broad.
I read the entire book with her voice in my head.Loved it!
"Why should we listen to a woman who wears pants?"She told some very charming stories about her childhood, talked about her first marriage to a man she still respects today, spent a long time describing her idolization and love for Spencer Tracy, and only spent a few short chapters rattling through her most famous film roles, almost as if she didn't believe anyone would be interested.
It was such a contrast to see this brassy woman making herself so submissive and absolutely catering to his every need and worrying about him so much, completely fine being the other woman for thirty years.Here's a great and random quote of hers when describing John Wayne in Rooster Cogburn- "John Wayne is the hero of the thirties and forties and most of the fifties.
She has an uncanny almost dry wit about her, that can be at times self deprecating, and at times an assessment of her opinion of others.
Just being able to experience the childhood that carved out the hollow mold, that would eventually be filled with what became the woman, who in this book, shared those intimacies with candor,pulling no punches,is an homage of what it takes to become great, in an industry that wanted greatness on it's own terms, and that tried to destroy the original few.
This is a self analyzation of the contents that filled that mold, a mold noone could break.
Katharine Hepburn: Glamorous?
Beautiful?
Sophisticated?
Great actress?
Yes, yes, yes, and yes.
NO.I know one reviewer inserted a bunch of silly quotes from the book.
But that is the tone of the whole book, a chatty conversational style, whether she's talking about having dinner w/someone or the tragic death of her brother.
She also rambles a lot, jumping to a different topic in the middle of a story.But all this chattiness and rambling also made her seem more down to earth than I had thought.
But best to go elsewhere if you really want to know the story of her life.
This was at once an undisciplined ramble, a woman over years reminiscing and straying here and there through her memory without a solid reason for her digressions.
And yet, it is Hepburn.
You will feel her through the book.and get to know her well.
And although fiercely independent, she surrendered all herself to Tracy.
Oh, by the way, that's barely touched upon in the book except for a passage at the end.
That thirty five year relationship with her absolute love is only brushed.Funny, flawed, uncompromising..the autobiography is different from any I've read and will not be liked by some folk.
I love Katharine Hepburn, even more so after reading her book.
This somewhat fragmented memoir by Katharine Hepburn is remarkable in many ways.
The book is remarkable also in the way Hepburn speaks of herself; she is self-effacing and bragging almost with the same sentence.
She describes herself more than once as a "me-me-me" sort of person, yet she is highly attuned to those around her, her friends, colleagues, and assistants, praising them for their brilliance, intelligence, loyalty, and kindness to her.A complex individual, Katharine Hepburn has provided in this memoir (one of several she's written) a window into her professional and private life, and the book has much to recommend it, including humor.
Slow at parts, but overall I enjoyed it. Kate is probably my favorite actress. Loved her and Cary Grant together. Also liked learning more about her relationship with Spencer Tracy. The book has many photos throughout which I loved. I wish more bios would do that. Recommended for any old Hollywood fan.
Direct, to the point. How a privileged, head strong girl made it in Hollywood in the early 30s. No discussion about either war which she lived thru, thank God. Shows her vulnerability. Her highs and lows. Admits she's got s BIG ego. Pictures made it special too.
This took me 6 months to read. I loved Katharine Hepburn but this book killed me slowly. Some funny, some privileged, some just dry as a bone, some maniacal ranting. I don’t know. I’m a bit disappointed.
Not much to rave about here, folks. A longer review is at www.cloquetriverpress.com. Peace.Mark
A fun read, my sis bought it for me because Hepburn is the most famous alum of my college and I wanted some more insight into her: found myself really enjoying how Hepburn wrote and characterized her own life even when she could admittedly be a little silly or selfish. I loved how fun Hepburn made the whole book feel and the writing was easy and compelling.
An informative autobiography. I enjoyed Kate's candor. She was a unique individual with lots of chutzpah.
It's like sitting down next to someone in a retirement home and asking one question--and you get the story of their life.
Except that Miss Hepburn's life is a little more varied than most.The odd part, besides the rambling, is that she cheerfully admits that she was selfish, from day 1, and continued to be so.
She admits that she never took a real acting class, and that her early performances were pretty awful.
If he doesn't have good taste, why do you want to arrive with him?" That explains a lot, right there.
It's a good overview of what Hollywood was like in the "golden days."
I so admire Katharine Hepburn, and always will, but I felt that she had difficulty sharing her personal life after a certain point...
I wouldn't particularly celebrate their relationship, due to the fact that he was still married, but I did want to know about it, not really for juicy intimate details, but to know about "her" in it, what brought her to it, what convinced her to stay in it, what made it strong, or weak, or impossible to leave.
I'm big on studying human behavior, it's part of my life's work, and so many of the books I read, are chosen because I enjoy getting into the details of choices made and what's behind them.
I was initially undecided about reading this autobiography, since I read several reviews that said it was completely jumbled and very difficult to follow since events weren't retold in chronological order.
I had never really known much about Katharine Hepburn and I only recently became rather interested in her life and work.
Still, the little tales she recounts in the book were often humorous and interesting.
I would have read a biography about Katharine Hepburn's life if I could have, but most of them have not received good reviews, so that was part of the reason I read this book.
Overall, it was an interesting story, not very deep, but pretty good.
