https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/604803.Confessor
So, by comparison, the fact that entire pages of dialogue in every scene were dedicated to the same insulting diatribe that we've been subjected to for way too many books shows restraint on your part.
One sign that you spent far too much time envisioning yourself as a moral philosopher and not enough as, you know, a writer, was the way you crammed eleven books worth of answers into two hundred pages.
The fact that the end of this series - which started off so promisingly and got so sidetracked by your holier-than-thou stapled on moral statement - was ended in such a hackneyed, deux-ex-machina riddled fashion just means I won't be picking up anything else you write.No love,me
You can only do this so many times thus the story began to branch out a bit.Over time more and more however Mr. Goodkind gave more and more book space to his own ideas and beliefs.
(Since I wrote this that series to has been tied up...Free at last!) Another one that started out well and sucked me in!As you read this if you can stay with the story as Mr. Goodkind ties the threads together (and you almost need a program for that as all the players from the other ten books get called into the action) you'll at least get an end to the story.
So if there was ever any doubt in my mind that Goodkind was using this series as a thin veneer for preaching his personal philosophies on morality and faith vs reason it was instantly expelled on reading this book.
Even the ending of the book and the series just seemed like another way to have his characters beat the same freaking ideas into the heads of his readers...
That's fine, but when entire books in a series are basically dedicated to the characters rambling on and on and on about that moral structure which has been well defined repeatedly it rips you out of the world you're supposed to be experiencing and leaves you wanting to stick your head in a blender.
I'm a huge fan of Terry Goodkind and the Sword of Truth series.
I've really enjoyed following Richard and Kahlan throughout the series.
For the most part, everything tied together with the first book, although some parts could have been edited out.
My husband didn't like most of the middle with Richard and the game.
It was like in Final Fantasy X when you stop the whole game just to play some Blitzball...doesn't really move the plot, but it's just so darned cool.
Richard and Kahlan are so cute.
Okay, you can tell I'm a Goodkind geek.
The culmination of years of mediocrity and bland repetition. TOR Fantasy has sunk to a low level indeed, in agreeing to bank on the latter half of this dismal series. I don't know what happened to Terry Goodkind over the years, but whatever afflictions lay at the heart of his deteriorating talent as a storyteller and wordsmith, I will never again pick up another book he writes. For the record... Wizard's First Rule was Brilliant - I'll never dispute that. But I am glad that this snake-oil roadshow has finally ground down to its anti-climactic end.
Yes!!!!Cara: So its like, We give em money for omelettes?Richard : Yes cara, hah hah hah you silly mordsith, you seem to understand the principles involved, but your way of putting it really makes me chuckle.There is more to it, but no time, gotta trot.To the silph mobile!!!alsoRichard Travels to the underworld-------Trip was successRichard: By skipping the description of events I have got way more time to chat to you guys about this philosophy of which I heard.Goodkind keeps those plot twists coming, has you on your toes and it was a quite um spellbinding.It is humorous how he sets up a parallel world which could easily be the origin of our earth, while also getting in a quick one-two on christianity.At least I got closure, and it is good to see an author devote a bit of time to events after the final battle.
As the finale unfolds, Kahlan (without her memory), Richard (without his magic), and Nicci are all captured by Jagang in different parts of the enemy camp and Jagang with the Sisters of the Dark have the Boxes of Orden.
It seems fitting that, while is was she that came searching for Richard in Book 1, Richard needs to find her in the end in order to save the world.The eleven book series comes full circle in Confessor, paralleling the story from Wizard's First Rule and resolving all the conflicts we have encountered until now.
TL;DR All in all, from about the 60% mark in the book all the way to like the 98% mark of the book, it's actually kind of excellent. There is a lot of good action, some very powerful character moments. It's generally well paced and written, with real dramatic tension. But the first 60% of the book is a terrible drudgery of repetition, recaps, and just general boring shit no one cares about going on. The last 2% is a rage inducing diatribe on Goodkind's simplistic and childish vision of black an
The last 2% is a rage inducing diatribe on Goodkind's simplistic and childish vision of black and white morality, and then it sweeps all the world's problems under the rug, by way of one of the most insulting and lazy uses of Deus ex Machina in literary history, so the good guys don't actually have to confront and deal with them.
That was intentional.) up the insanity inducing monotony, Kahlan spends a great deal of time thinking about how she would really like trip that guy who she doesn't know (Richard) into her bed, because he's just so hot.
That being said, I have most of these books in hardcover.The first three or so were golden, and then it went a down hill from there (although I did also love Faith of the Fallen).
The whole Chainfire book was awful.
This book was also awful.
They've been fighting this huge Empire for books and books now, and you're expecting Richard to come up with some extremely clever way to beat them and then it all just comes down to this statue and he sends them off to a different world.
I will always stop at book 3, and then skip to Faith of the Fallen.
The first five books were truly great works of fantasy, but midway through the series, a transformation happened.
I resolved to stick this series out, based on how good the first half was and based on a desire to see it end (in contrast to Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time, a series of similar length that I had abandoned before picking up Goodkind's books).
Plus, there were times when his later books approached the grand storytelling of the later ones.Goodkind's total rejection of all competing ideologies is among the most narrowminded writing I've seen.
This series degraded quickly. What started out as a raw and realistic twist on standard high-fantasy fare, became instead a series of violent rape fantasies, unnecessary violence, and philosopipolitical pablum.Why was I reading it, you might ask? Well, I put some time into the first five or so books, so when I saw the last one was on the way, I figured I'd catch up for a little summer reading.I've had better ideas.This book gets an extra star because it ended the series. Way to go!
All those, like Terry Goodkind, who felt that they wanted a world free from the self-aware, would be transported through the magic of Orden to this world, where they could move to the Rocky Mountains and trade gold for railroad bridge designs until they all died out because their children refused to mine for gold to pay for food and lodging.
This was truly an amazing book.
Terry Goodkind's imagination is amazing, and his ability to write and create is astounding.
I've stuck with Rihard and Kahlan since the beginning of their journey - and now it's the end.
Goodkind's books have so much depth; if you really sit down and look at everything, break everything down, you realize that these things happening in Richard's world are similiar to the things happening in our world.
This book was a great ending to a great journey; and I have to admit I teared up more than once while reading this book!
Not a lot to say about this book.
I began reading Terry Goodkind's 'Sword of Truth' epic fantasy a long time ago with the first in the series.
I read to book six and then moved on to other fantasy books.
I was given this one from a friend as I was told it is the last in the series.
I found it a disappointing end to a set of books which for me began so well..
Perhaps there are just too many in the series to maintain the same level of interest.
The book is almost 700 pages too.
The entire Sword of Truth series was perhaps the best continuing story I have ever read.
Goodkind manages, like few others, to create an entire realm replete with multi-dimensional, imperfect characters decribed using language that is both precise and concise and yet dripping with immediacy of meaning.
Terry Goodkind has done this.As the stories in the series continue, you see an objectivist philosophy reminiscent of that originally made popular in the novels of Ayn Rand.
Goodkind does place the value of one's own life at the center of his moral framework (as its highest cause) but, he goes beyond this to create a moral system that allows one to sacrifice, even one's very life, for principles beyond those of direct self-interest.
richard know that the power will not work because jajang is acting out of hate.
Previous comments:please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be over, please be overupdate: i lost the f'n book and now must wait for the library to give me a copy.
I only wanted to finish the book to discover what hapens to the characters i remember reading about as a kid.as expected, richard is preachy.
I have to say that I wasn't as impressed with this book. Maybe my expectations were too high. I feel that it became too preachy and didn't really focus as much on the characters as the others did. After all, we've read 10 books BECAUSE of these characters. I understand the message that he is trying to send but I think that it all wrapped up a bit too neatly for my warped tastes. I will miss these characters though.
Might as well just call this book, "And everyone lived happily ever after."I acknowledge that I may have some sort of sadistic streak in me to want the author to kill off main characters, or at least have something bad happen.
Even though it was a bit of a deus ex machina, Richard's use of the Sword of Truth to operate the boxes of Orden made sense.Judged purely on the merits of its story (and not its themes, which as others say, are heavily entangled with Objectivism), The Sword of Truth series is not bad but could be much better.
If you made it this far into the series, the last book of The Sword of Truth, then I give you my praise and my condolences.
I think one star might be out of the goodness of my heart, though.The book itself is a far cry from the first and Goodkind's 'holier than thou', dogmatic, preachy attitude consists throughout the pages of the story, until the very last one actually.
It attempts to be circular, but relies on old ideas for plot development that he had when he first started the series which completely ruins the tale and the excitement of the book.
It was just a little disappointing seeing as how the rest of his books generally suck you in from the very beginning.But that aside, the book really picked up and got more actiony and gripping about halfway through and I was flipping pages like you wouldn't believe!
It was also cute, if not predictable, how he brought all other characters from the beginning of the series into the ending to tie it all up.So yes, as a whole the book was not disappointing as an ending to the series.
I still think it lacked a bit of oomph to make it a great book but it was a good read!
yeah, so basically the first 200 pages are a very elaborate and very boring setup ((view spoiler)[pretty much every single goodguy is captured or at least harmed (hide spoiler)]), which then melts down into a complete and utter chaos, every remaining bit of logic vaporizes, and at the end it's pretty much "and they lived happily ever after because i said so dammit".there were some very nice moments and very good scenes, but sadly, the author decided not to elaborate on those ((view spoiler)[i'd sure like to read more about Jagang in his new role as Nicci's prisoner, but that's just me...
(hide spoiler)]
Ok, so this trilogy of books just ticks me off.
Three books, and barely a plot.
Either way, there's not enough action, not enough plot, and ultimately, not enough of a satifying ending.
He ties up all the loose ends in such a way that you feel insulted for having read all 700-800 pages of this trilogy, and the ultimate solution comes straight out of left field.
I think it's probably time to let Richard and Kahlen live in peace and try his hand at something new.
E finalmente, dopo circa due anni di lettura (alternata, ovviamente, con altri libri) giungo alla conclusione di questa lunghissima saga.
Posso affermare con tranquillità che questa saga è andata "in decrescendo": i primi 4 volumi li ho praticamente adorati, ma dal quinto l'enfasi è iniziata a calare, poi dopo l'ottavo si è ripreso e gli ultimi tre sono stati decisamente migliori.
L'unico punto debole che ho trovato (in questo come in altri volumi) è la lunghezza: certe parti le avrei accorciate di molto e avrei così ridotto il numero dei libri pubblicati.Il giudizio rimane comunque ampiamente positivo su tutta la saga, che consiglio a chiunque voglia imbarcarsi in un'avventura lunghissima!
Last night I finished reading Confessor, the last book in Terry Goodkind's Sword of Truth series.
As with the previous books in the series, I found myself completely riveted for the last two hundred and fifty pages or so...
as for the previous pages, sometimes I found myself skimming through long descriptions of the nature of magic or the rules of Ja 'La.If you've read and enjoyed the previous nine books in the series, you'll like this one, too.
What an amazing ending to the whole entire series. I loved this series. The plot was so intricate, and the characters acted like real people, and their flaws influenced decisions and made them a stronger character. This series was great!
I give up. I find myself liking the characters less and less, and like Jordan he seems incapable of finding the conclusion to this quest.
The previous books set up a number of problems for Richard to face: the Kahlan’s absence, the Chainfire spell, Jagang and the Imperial Order and the Sisters of the Dark working for the Keeper of the Underworld.
As with ALL of the books in the series, the pace of the narrative was uneven largely due to the fact that Goodkind insisted on a complete and very detailed recap every time we came across a character from the past.
I plan to read the Richard and Kahlan series as well but I think I’ll wait for the final book to come out which is in November this year, so the wait won’t be too long.
Finished reading " Confessor " by Terry Goodkind. It is the 11th book in the Sword of Truth series. Once again he gives us a great story with likable characters. His novels seem to get better and better. Very hard to put it down.
One of the truly fantastic series out there. There were time where Terry Goodkind got a bit preachy and repetitive, but overall a highly recommended read!
After 11 books, my thoughts I am pretty sure that most of the haters are people who don't like Ayn Rand, and more probably people who are strong believers of their religion.
When i saw similar things in my life which religion and beliefs overpower mind and thinking and what is right, my religious side is getting weaker, but i don't think this is because of religion, this is indeed because of people, that's why there is a First Rule for Wizards.
