https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/589904.Zen_Buddhism
If it could, it would do anything to help us come to an understanding."I read this book, not really to learn about Zen, but to learn about the perspective of its author D.T. Suzuki.
Suzuki was a Japanese monk that taught at Colombia University and spoke 6 languages fluently (including, obviously, English).
It seems the more one tries to think of Zen from the default intellectual analysis, the harder it is to understand it.
I can't claim to be a convert to Zen, but it is always nice to learn about something different--to understand how other people in the world think of basic things.
This is a really excellent, if perhaps dated, view of Zen Buddhism written in a way that is accessible to university-educated Westerners.
I thought the content of this book was exceptional, and would have given it five stars, except that I thought that the writing style was a bit too dense for most readers.
A part of this is simply due to the nuanced nature of the subject matter, but I feel the author could have done better in making his ideas accessible.
Overall, though, I would strongly recommend this book for anyone who is interested in learning more about Zen Buddhism and what it might have to teach us as Westerners.
This book showed me that Zen is just as full of dogma and superstition and nonsense as any other religion. Thanks a lot. I think Zen has come a long way since ole Suzuki in making itself accessible to the West. It's maybe a little alarming to see how little Western Buddhism has in common with this articulation of its Eastern roots, but whatever is in this book is completely useless to me.
I believe I read this while taking Harold Kasimow's Major Eastern Religions course while at Grinnell College. The writings of D.T. Suzuki (which this collection surveys) were of considerable influence in my understanding of Zen Buddhism and led to my belief that if I had to subscribe to a recognized "religion" it would be Zen.
The most awesomest and wonderful zen book foreverandever.Esp. when he slams Oscar Wilde...or quotes that thing about the mountain.you know.the mountain.
Not the most approachable on the subject of Zen but purposefully brilliant in walking the reader through the reasons Zen cant be defined by the written word.
History, practice and thought from the master, but a difficult book to get through. Repetitive, convoluted and confusing—it can be worked out with effort, and in doing so, yields the reward of a comprehensive survey.
"Some part of our being knows this is where we came from. We long to return. And we can. Because the cosmos is also within us. We're made of star-stuff. We are a way for the cosmos to know itself." Carl Sagan
Read the first chapter. Do it now!
And I always wondered what Zen was aboutgreat........... pizzas are here
This is my first reading of D.T.Suzuki and I can see his scholarship flow through the pages of the book.
I had earlier studied Alan Watts' books on Zen. Suzuki is definitely more traditional and scholarly in his approach than Alan Watts but there is still the depth of understanding here.
At times, the writing is too technical for me but most of the book can be read by a novice like me too.
I particularly liked the treatment of the history of Zen, it is more detailed that the other books I read till now.
You get a solid understanding of the basics of Zen after reading the book.
Too wordy to be truly Zen
D.T Suzuki is thorough and imaginative, linking the principles of Zen to the culture and history of Japan, as well as to Western philosophy.
Suzuki has a well-deserved reputation as the 20th century's foremost authority on Japanese Zen. While perhaps more of a scholar's book than a practitioner's book, this selection of essays from Suzuki's Zen and Japanese Culture do a wonderful job of conveying the spirit and rich history of Japanese Zen, and its roots in Chinese Ch'an.
The essays selected give a good taste of the complex spectrum of Zen, and its many cultural and historical manifestations, without swamping the reader with material.
A fine and complex work by a well-respected figure of the Zen tradition.
If our zin-zang symbol is pristine, in solitary blacks and whites, then Suzuki is all greyed over. This writing is a colloquial handshake: DT Suzuki welcoming the reader, then constructing the thatched roof of Zen Buddhism above your head as you pass through its pages. Suzuki's construct is a bit 'leaky', denying the colder corners of Zen Buddhist theory in favor of a kinder portrait of its ways. It's a lovely book for the novice, but it's not quite on-point.
Suzuki is probably one of the best authors who rights on Zen Buddhism. Great analysis and explanation. He does a good job but it doesn't really help to understand Zen. Maybe because the only way to understand it is to experience it. Still the book is very useful.
Not for the beginner, nor the conceptually timid. Suzuki makes you think on your feet, and shake your head in confusion. I lost track of the number of times I had to go back and read a passage over again. A workout but a lot of gems inside.
learned quite a bit about the "un-logic" and "no-mind" of Zen, but parts of it were a chore. example - the theological hairsplitting of whether the idea of emptiness is empty itself, and things like that.
it's been bout 10 years since I began reading this book. It was an eyeopening part of my life at the time and still serves purpose.
Suzuki's writings, or rather his dictated writings, are always a bit scattered, never focused. Even so the work is always profound and always grants a deeper line of thought.
This book requires a lot of thought. Some days I didn't want to delve, but I'm glad I did. I will re-read this book often.
Alright. But would've been better if it wasn't by such a bad author.
It's kind of a slow read, but very interesting and insightful for those who like to learn and are open-minded to other religions/philosophies.
Okay. I liked Allan W. Watts' book on Zen a lot more though.
This was pretty good, introducing some of the basic concepts of Zen, albeit the non-soto type of Zen that seeks enlightenment instead of rejecting that whole idea. A valuable read regardless.
Overly academic for my interests. Overtly making sentences and words complicated.
This is a great book for beginners. I learned a lot about myself while reading this one.
