https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97951.Castle_to_Castle
No one who knows and reads French and who consumes Celine has any doubts as to his sanity.
And Celine's prose really does ring true, not just with my family members, but also with all of the hundreds of French characters I've met, listened to and spent time with in cafes and elsewhere over the past almost half century.French culture is chock full of in-jokes.
I don't know if he ever wrote such a thing, but I surely would like to read at least an essay by Richard Cobb about Celine.
I guess Celine will be rather like old pop music from way back when.
I just penned a lengthy (for me, anyway) treatment of how and why Celine should be approached.
The why detailed his good faith account of the vanquished, how he understood the stakes of his ideological bent.
Unfortunately, Celine in his derangement perceived his public judgement and persecution to be of personal bent.
Sanctuary is found in a train built for the Shah of Iran and crowded not only with collaborators but with screaming, shitting children.Whether he was being glib or not, I credit Joshua Cohen for inviting me to return to Celine after so long.
"Né dans la tragédie, le regime de Vichy agonise dans un décor d'opérette." (Henry Rousso, Les années noires, on Sigmaringen)Stunning -- possibly the best of the three I've read so far (Journey, Mort....) - certainly there is none of the artificiality found in parts of the others - he is now merely a chronicler....
-- Manheim's translation of Castle to Castle itself won a National Book Award (1970).
As I said in my earlier update, I never thought I would read this book; didn't think I would understand it..., if I did; and so assumed I wouldn't like it.
Selin je tako brutalno realan a opet kao da sve sto govori prolazi kroz nekakvu prizmu fantasticnog. Stil pisanja je haotica a od opisa i poredjenja vam se prevrce stomak. Samo dok to citate znate da je sve bas tako, nista manje surovo nego sto on kaze. Matori je bio namcor, nema sta, samo razumeo je svet oko sebe. Razumeo ga je na jedan osvescujuc nacin.
being a vichy collaborator was pretty cool imo and he calls sartre "fartre", which i think is a legitimate criticism of him artistically as well as politicall. but its just my opinion man.
Céline is important to them as a doctor, but also as the man who ‘doesn’t like the Jews’ and has that in writing; he is a sacrificial scribe, with the Allies sweeping east, and the RAF and American Flying Fortresses constantly flying unchallenged overhead.
Céline is like any of us, angry about how 99% of the time, no matter what you think of the world, no matter what good you might be able to do, nothing you do can make a difference, really ...
سلین خسته س و دنبال آرامش" در یک سنی، بخصوص بعد از بعضی ناملایمات، آدم یک چیز بیشتر دلش نمی‌خواهد: این که ولش کنند راحت باشد!...
بر اثر توهمی که سلین میبینه و با کشتی ارواح عده ای از دوستان قدیمش برخورد میکنه، دچار تب میشه و از اینجا خاطرات جنگ جهانی دوم و دوره ای که به عنوان پزشک در دولت موقت فرانسه در حال فعالیته رو به صورت پراکنده به یاد میره و در حین تعریف این خاطرات با طنز تلخ و سیاه خودش دوره جنگ و مشکلاتی رو که باهاش دست بگریبان بودن رو به قشنگی توصیف میکنه...
کتاب این طور شروع می شود که سلین دارد از دست ناشرهایش غر میزند.
همه ی کتاب های سلین همین است و همین طور هم ادامه پیدا می کنند تا تمام شوند.
آن وسط ها هم بدبختی های آدم ها چون خنده دار است، خیلی جاهای کتاب بامزه است.
دخترهای خیلی برازنده که در ایستگاه قطار با سربازهایی که قابلمه داشتند و شهوت و جرب و بیماری های مقاربتی می خوابیدند.
سوار قطار شاه ایران می شوند.
من دوست دارم از مهدی سحابی تشکر کنم، از این انسان گرانقدر که زیر خاک است ولی قبلش سه کتاب از سلین ترجمه کرده
سگ ها خبرم می کنند. آمدن پستچی را از چند کیلومتری می فهمند. لیلی را از ایستگاه راه آهن بو می کشند. می فهمند کی از قطار پیاده می شود...هیچ وقت هم اشتباه نمی کنند. همیشه خواسته ام سردر بیاورم که چه جوری میفهمند؟ میفهمند،همین! ما آدم ها سرمان را می کوبیم به دیوار، مشنگ ریاضی ایم...انیشتین هم نمی تواند بگوید لیلی دارد می آید یا نه!
Celine hangs out in a castle with a bunch of Nazis
Some have suggested this is his funniest book - there are certainly some hilarious episodes, but to me it pales next to Death on the Instalment Plan and Journey to the End of Night.But it is fascinating, partly because it is based on Celine's real experience in Sigmaringen, the small town in southern Germany where the Vichy French regime was put by the Germans after the invasion of Normandy.
Sigmaringen (which he called Siegmanringen) is still very much like it was then; it was not bombed in the war and much of the centre of the town is just as it was in late 1944 and early 1945 when Celine was there.
It is a kind of closed door.
Imagine a concentration of routed French fascist, complained to cohabit in the same place.
There is deep resentment and hatred.
Celine does not stop complaining, of his living conditions, his absence of recognition..Such an amount of hatred.
He hold it everyone : Sartre (the flies 1943 with agreement of German censure) Aragon, Morand… He was undoubtedly less political skiled.All this little society lose theirself in reasoning, cry on their past glory.
It's completely derisory.
Nobody assumes the consequences of his choices.
Remain the style, Celine great prose writer, the inventive prosody.
DNF...possibly my first ever but I just can't stand it anymore! string a full sentence together, man!
My Penguin (paperback) edition has a small collection of interviews with the author just prior to his death and, combining those interviews with my impression of the first-person protagonist in the novel, might just as well be entitled, D’un Doleance l’autre (“From one Grievance to Another”).
I have to admit that the style does create a sense of flow that I haven’t seen in some writing.The second factor that kept me going was that just as I was disgusted enough to quit, Celine would offer some observation like “History doesn’t pass the platter twice.” (p.
Celine continues his journey as the war ends, trying to get out of France and then Germany, with ROLF results. It is absolutely a must read for Celine fans!
فوق العاده!ا
The funniest book by Celine I've read.
Após o retorno ao seu país de origem, Céline voltou a exercer a medicina, atendendo a uma clientela pauperizada, como a personagem madame Niçois, sua velha paciente em De Castelo em Castelo.Entusiasta do colaboracionismo com o Governo de Vichy, Louis-Ferdinand Céline foi condenado à morte no fim da 2ª Guerra Mundial, mas conseguiu fugir para Alemanha, sendo abrigado pelos nazistas no castelo de Sigmaringen, na Baviera, lugar que reunia “a fina flor do colaboracionismo”.Junto a Céline encontravam-se figuras do primeiro escalão do Governo de Vichy, como o marechal Philippe Pétain, Pierre Laval e outros sequazes.
75 del codice penale (che incriminava la cospirazione con gli Stati nemici e che Céline si sentiva “puntato alla schiena”); le truppe africane (i «senegalesi») dell’armata francese di Leclerc con le loro leggendarie atrocità; la condanna a morte e le confische subìte in seguito alle scellerate scelte politiche; il comportamento scorretto degli editori; il problema dei conti da pagare nella Francia del dopoguerra; l’assillo del cibo nella Germania assediata; i 1142 (contati precisi!) collaborazionisti francesi in fuga dall’avanzata alleata…Per carità, Céline raccontava situazioni estreme – sia quella in cui scriveva, dopo il conflitto, quando si era ormai ridotto a una sorta di esiliato in patria; sia, soprattutto, quella oggetto di ricordo, durante la guerra –; e a leggerlo pare che tutto il mondo e tutta la sua storia stessero convergendo in quegli anni e in quei fatti, come in una resa dei conti o in un grande bubbone.
Amintiri dezlânate, ziceți?
Dar bat undeva, direcția nord, poate...
sau ideea că pentru literatură se plătește...
în fond o plătea pentru că nu și-a ținut pliscul, bagatelă, anti-semitism, pro-nazism...
Pe naiba!
Dincolo de frontiere - omul.
Și apoi, pe lângă faptul că m-a marcat, omul contra etichetelor, e un chilipir să-l ai în spatele frontului, căci se trăia și dincolo, nu erau chiar toți spurcați.
Inclusiv Dresda, bombardamentul ei de trupele aliaților, doar că din altă perspectivă.Nemaivorbind de stil, bogăția limbajului...
Nord, al doilea volum din trilogia exilului, m-a decepționat, nu eram pregătit, pe semne.
He acted like the French were mistreating the reincarnation of Christ, as opposed to, you know, a fascist collaborator who published anti Semitic writings so virulent, even the Germans thought it was counterproductive.
If the NAZIS are muttering, "That Celine, he's a bit much, isn't he?" then you know that you are, at best, a morally dubious individual, and perhaps you are not entitled to own trash cans like the rest of us.The book picked up a bit after that, and through the complaints about people giving him dirty looks, fascinating insights about a besieged group of fanatics residing in a nether zone between reality and delusion were discerned.
As for the work itself...
I had tried to read this before and gave up about a third of the way in...
my mistake...
the action...
picks up after he meets his gaucho friend...
it's worth reading...
I loved it!...
Funny...
life affirming, in the most brutal sense possible...
I promise I will revisit Journey and Death on the Instalment Plan...
But first I'll read North and Rigadoon...
Avoided reading Celine for a long time...
I mean...
there are plenty of defences of him, that he didn't mean it...
When I finally picked up Journeski...
It takes getting used to...
but still it takes time...
Язвительно отзываясь о своих издателях и друзьях/врагах Селин выстраивает сложное по прочтению произведение.
Все это присутствует в книге.
Все это описано потрясающе емким письмом.
Селин, его жена и кот находятся в Зикмарингене - замке, куда бежало коллаборационистское правительство Франции.
На этом фоне Селин продолжает лечить своих пациентов, внутри язвенно их бичуя.
То умер генерал и необходимо через половину Германии ехать на поезде без окон, кутаясь в оторванную обшивку диванов и возвратиться обратно с огромным флагом Франции Петену в подарок и голодным поездом детей и беременных, которые вас раздевают до трусов и вы не в силах что либо сделать.
Je m'étais alors promis de lire "D'un château l'autre" de Céline, un roman d'un autre calibre d'un auteur qui en outre a vécu ces événements.Ah, on est loin de la niaiserie qui forme l'intrigue d'Assouline.
Et tout cela alors que pour Céline l'histoire n'est qu'un élément secondaire, un prétexte à développer son style.J'ai été fasciné par 'D'un château l'autre" et j'ai enfin compris (je pense ...) le style incomparable de Céline que je n'avais plus lu depuis plus de trente ans (trop jeune alors).
Céline doit se lire presque à voix haute pour apprécier son sens de la mélodie.Le récit est jubilatoire et atroce.
The first part of the book is essentially an interior monologue from your cranky racist grandfather, uncle, etc., but eventually Celine recounts his misadventures medicating the Vichy regime as it is holed up in a German castle at the end of WWII.
His narrative of the horrors of war is riveting, and the book is laced with Celine's trademark dark humor.
A wickedly funny book, but not recommended for newcomers to Celine - if you've made it through Journey to the End of Night and Death on the Installment Plan, and are eager for more, Castle to Castle does not disappoint.
Céline nous raconte son expérience de la guerre, de son métier de médecin, de toute cette partie de sa vie tachée de merde, mais dans un style plutôt décousu, ce qui peut rendre la lecture ardue pour qui a trouvé difficile de passer au travers du Voyage au bout de la nuit.
On voyage justement ici d'une idée à l'autre dans une ambiance saccadée, inconfortable.
Les images qu'il nous propose, parfois dures à supporter, ont été en partie ce qui m'a motivé à aller jusqu'au bout de ce livre, qui se situe entre l'auto-biographie et le roman.

Céline zoals je hem kent in z'n romans, maar hier zonder de fictie als rookscherm. Een bloemlezing van brievencorrespondenties en pamfletten. Een korte, maar schitterende inkijk in het denken van de schrijver. Hard. Weerbarstig. Naar onze maatstaven moreel verwerpelijk door zijn antisemitisme dat geen blad voor de mond neemt. En toch... Diepe medemenselijkheid schuilende onder een lawine aan misantropische salvo's. Geboren uit een afkeer voor de slachtpartij van Wereldoorlog I, die zowel hem als het continent tekende en nooit meer heeft losgelaten. En daardoor in feite genadeloos voor de onmens in de mens.
Castle to Castle is Celine at his best. In it, he constructs a story of a desperate collaborationist government-in-exile of Vichy holed up in a castle, cowering through the regular RAF airstrikes. The cast of villains are often ridiculous yet always strikingly human. The best moments, however, are when Celine descends into bitter rants, usually about being robbed of his royalties from earlier works or about the hypocrisies of the Allied forces. Only mildly-to-moderately anti-Semitic. This is a must-read for people that love Celine or just any ellipses-enthusiast.
Misanthropy and dark humour at its best, Castle to Castle chronicles Celine's medicating of a bunch of Vichy French officials and Nazis held up in a castle at the end of WWII. In it, he offers some of his funniest rants while skewing the lines of reality. However, it is this skewing that makes the book at times teeter into incomprehension. Still, it is Celine and you'll find yourself laughing quite a bit. Never the less, it pales in comparison to Journey to the End of the Night and Death on the Installment Plan.
