https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35133923-everything-happens-for-a-reason
And it’s human nature, as anyone who’s fielded an endless series of questions from an inquisitive 5-year-old can tell you.But as Kate Bowler shows in her wonderful new memoir, Everything Happens for a Reason and Other Lies I’ve Loved, some “why” questions can’t be answered satisfactorily with facts.
Before she got sick, Bowler didn’t subscribe to the prosperity gospel, but she didn’t exactly reject it either.
He died thinking she had caused his illness by committing some unknown sin.Bowler answers the “why” question in a compelling way: by refusing to accept the premise.
This short book is a memoir of Kate Bowler's Stage IV colon cancer and how her diagnosis flies in the face of the "prosperity gospel"—the notion espoused by some Christians that as long as you believe in God and think positively, good things will happen for you, and therefore if something bad happens it's kind of your own fault.
She's a professor at Duke divinity school and did her dissertation on the prosperity gospel, so she knows a lot about it, but has no actual personal lived experience with it at all.
It combines two of my niche interests: medical (especially cancer) memoirs, and the prosperity gospel, a dubious theology I grew up with in the Pentecostal church my parents still attend in America.
Indeed, Bowler’s previous book is a history of the prosperity gospel in America.
Though she grew up surrounded by the Canadian Mennonite tradition, as she made progress towards becoming an assistant professor at Duke Divinity School she was fascinated by prosperity theology: the idea that you can claim God’s blessings, financial and otherwise, as a reward for righteous behavior and generous giving to the church.If she’d ever been tempted to set store by this notion, that certainty was permanently fractured when she was diagnosed with stage IV colon cancer in her mid-thirties.
Everything Happens for a Reason: And Other Lies I’ve Loved  is a propulsive memoir about a young woman’s sudden, dramatic diagnosis of stage-four cancer after months, possibly years (the timeline is fuzzy), of inexplicable symptoms and innumerable, pointless appointments with medical specialists. Some might frame a personal narrative like Bowler’s in terms of the uncertainty of medical science, reflecting on the imperfection and limitations of humans as diagnosticians and care-givers. Hindsight
is a propulsive memoir about a young woman’s sudden, dramatic diagnosis of stage-four cancer after months, possibly years (the timeline is fuzzy), of inexplicable symptoms and innumerable, pointless appointments with medical specialists.
A physician’s assistant who checked her sutures after her surgery asked her how she was doing, then callously announced: “the sooner you get used to the idea of dying the better.” While Bowler tells a story that will be familiar to those who have personally lived with their own serious illness or the illness of someone close to them, as well as those who have read other memoirs about the subject, the author’s angle—a religious and academic one— is rather unusual.
So I did what any reasonable person should and finished this book at home in bed on a slow morning.
I’m glad my roommates weren’t home because I oscillated between an ugly cry and a full belly laugh in the course of like three pages.
Kate’s voice is incisive and thoughtful and honest and also breaks your heart open (I know that’s not an adjective, but I’m so impressed I’ve given up on parallelism).
Also, a good chunk of this book is dedicated to her community of Canadian Mennonites, who are consistently the best people I’ve ever met, so between that and a shout-out to Mindy Lahiri, we are clearly kindred.
Before I start my review, I am going to start of with some of my favorites quotes from the book."I wanted to make God to make me good and make me faithful,with just a few shining accolades along the way.
Now she tells her story of the prosperity gospel and how detrimental it is to people who believe in teaching that does not reflect the true nature of God. I can relate to this book so much, not only the quotes that she used but I grew up with this religious nonsense!I too was taught that you had to have just a little faith to be healed, command money to come down from heaven in order to receive a blessing.
I don’t have to feel bad for this woman (although, I do), but I do feel like I can judge in a more non-biased view given my own Stage IV diagnosis.
Every cancer memoir or article that is published is going to influence people’s view about our illness, mortality, etc.
Here’s the thing - none of us can know what’s to come and religion won’t tell us the truth.
To me, she explored (and over shared) her religion and didn’t talk much about anything else.
This was more of a religious book then a cancer memoir.
I don’t know.
I've recently experienced some health issues, and many people have commented that they either can't believe that I got that or asked me what I did to get it or think all I need to do to get better is a positive attitude.
While there is some connection with my beliefs and Bowler's experience and premise for this book, I had never heard of the Christian creed of "prosperity gospel".
With all that said, the two appendices should be required reading for all people who have friends and family going through things.
A portion of this book was striking in its special way of describing mundane aspects of life and how meaningful they are when you’ve got a terminal illness.
Also, I felt that a huge portion of the book was not relatable because of the author’s privileged background and narrow sample of demographics.
Sanctimonious is a perfect word to describe the tone of book and the author’s way of thinking.
Although I have a lot of sympathy for any kind of suffering, I also do not believe in the prosperity gospel, I am a mother to young children, and I am also very attached to my husband, the author left me unable to relate to her.
Please read this. It will wreck you in a good way.
Kate Bowler's own story of a terminal diagnosis and the road she's traveled amongst good intentions while fighting for her life and her faith.
“What would it mean for Christians to give up that little piece of the American Dream that says, "You are limitless"?
The mighty kingdom of God is not yet here.
God is here.
It is enough.” Kate Bowler"A Final Public Service Announcement to Suffering People: Just remember that if cancer or divorce or tragedies of all kinds don't kill you, people's good intentions will.
Take the phrase "but they mean well..." as your cue to run screaming from the room.
Kate Bowler reminds us of the thin thread of mortality, struggling through the doubts and questions any person of faith considers when contemplating the meaning of life and the purpose (if any) of suffering.
A horror story collides head on with a love story as Bowler offers her memoir to the reader as a contemplative guide.
This book doesn't glance away from the harsh realities of cancer and dying and yet still beams with beauty, wit, and life.
It's an artful expression of a personal narrative that reads like a kind conversation with your smartest, love-filled friend.
This is particularly challenging for a Divinity professor who grew up in a Mennonite community in which all things -- good and evil -- are attributed to "God's plan."And that's why I like this memoir: because Kate Bowler discovers that real life experience is simply incongruous with the longstanding religious beliefs with which she'd grown up.
A woman who has left the faith for science writes, 'I find it comforting to believe the universe is random, because then the God I believe in is no longer cruel.' This is a painful conclusion for so many who comb through their tragedies and wonder if God was ever even there." It’s clear throughout this memoir that Bowler is struggling to come to terms with her new reality and how it fits into the “prosperity gospel.” And it is even more clear that there’s no single answer.
I received an ARC from the publisher for review.
This book was a bit heart-wrenching, the story of Kate Bowler's cancer diagnosis and grappling with her own mortality.
I have to rate it a little lower because the narrative style was jarring to me - Bowler skipped around so much that I kept having to reread parts of the story because all of a sudden we were in a different tense, or timeline.
Some good lessons in here, and be warned, there's lots of God - maybe more than I was expecting.
If you've read Bowler before, you should know to expect this.
I read most of this book through tears. There were definitely some ugly-cry moments and also laugh-out-loud moments. I listened to Kate Bowler’s Fresh Air interview before I started this, and so I could hear her voice clearly as I was reading. A beautiful book on faith in the absence of certainty, and also about love and community and how not to be a d**k when someone you love is experiencing tragedy and grief. This is definitely a book I would keep on my shelf and read again. Kate Bowler is a beautiful person.
This book is all I can think about right now—the mix of scholarship and faith and personal trauma. I share so many friends in common with her and so it seems close. I respect so much her persisting and not “skipping to the end”. Her resistance to making meaning except that “trust often feels like love” and her ability to find and celebrate that love are truly amazing.

I need to stop more often and enjoy this moment, this day, this time.
3. Kate Bowler's podcast is worth listening to: While I didn't always love this book (wish that some things were more chronological in order of events and I still don't completely understand Kate's faith and her relationship with prosperity gospel) this novel led me to listen to her podcast yesterday.
I cried, I felt myself saying "yes, I agree with that" and downloading the next 5 episodes.
4. This novel reaffirmed my belief that things don't happen for a reason.
This is the lowest rating I’ve ever given a book on Goodreads, and one of the few books I’ve read in my life that I can say I truly despised.
It’s remarkable to me that someone who had a terminal illness could be so disparaging, dismissive, and disrespectful of medical providers and nurses.
I couldn’t even get in to the overall message of the book because I was so flabbergasted at the jabs, insults, generalizations, and cliches that she kept casually tossing around.
It had none of the depth and perspective I was expecting but instead was shallow and full of judgment.
Ugh. So disappointed.
This is the book I needed to read right now. Perhaps I'm not a fully objective reviewer. My mom passed away recently and I wanted to read something that discussed grief, but also the cliches that Christians bandy about. Bowler does a great job at telling her story and owning it, while not expecting others to have the same story. This definitely is a work that fits in nicely with Randy Pausch's The Last Lecture, Paul Kalanathi's When Breath Becomes Air and Mitch Albom's Tuesdays With Morrie. Highly recommend.
You know you connect with an author when you finish reading their work and immediately look for more. I just ordered Blessed, Bowler' s book on prosperity religion. Everything Happens for a Reason references Blessed but focuses on the Author's cancer diagnosis and treatment. Many good tips on how to support someone with terminal illness. An interesting look at the big questions grappled with during debilitating times.Copy provided by the Publisher and NetGalley.
Kate Bowler is a delightful human being. Very real, honest, and insightful about the stupid things people say to those who suffer. The appendix is the best part with very practical suggestions about what not to and what to say.
I found her book rather jumbled, but her piece in the NYT is very on-point. Dealing with Job's comforters.https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/26/op...I should add the best part of the book are the two appendices.
Have you ever wondered why bad things happen? Are you at a loss about what to say to friends going through a hard time? For me this book comes as close to explaining the unexplainable as anything I’ve read. It’s real, it’s incredibly moving, and I couldn’t stop reading it.
"The reason my wife is dying," he said...platitudes, man.
just stop talking.kate bowler was 35 years old when she found out that she had stage IV colon cancer.
in her book she chronicles her life post-diagnosis & determines that this was not "god's plan." the thought of god assigning disease or hardship to teach a lesson seems horrible to her.
at the end of her book, kate adds an appendix i & ii where she instructs her readers about things to ABSOLUTELY NEVER SAY TO PEOPLE EXPERIENCING TERRIBLE TIMES & then gives suggestions as to what to say or do.
listening to Kate's soothing voice, i'm so glad the paper copy of this book have more than 100 hold at the library that i was "forced" to listen to the audiobook. Kate is honest, funny and real. I salute her for making the audio book without sobbing reading the parts about her family, parent, husband and son, i know i was ... :'(
Everything Happens for a Reason by Kate Bowler is a startling memoir about courage, hope, and one woman's reaction to receiving the news that she has stage IV colon cancer.First off, this book was emotionally hard to read!
It's hard to imagine being told your life could be over because of a cancer diagnosis.
She has a hard time coming to terms with what her faith says about death and dying versus her new reality.I appreciated the book's raw sincerity.
If you appreciate memoirs, this was a great book to read.
Having survived lung cancer, a lobectomy, chemotherapy and an experimental chemo study, this book sounded interesting to me.
I would say her life and personality are quite different from mine - the author is a woman and extroverted so she sees everything from that point of view.
The best part of the book was her own description of dealing with people endlessly aiming to be helpful.
I think it comes down to most people want to be in control of their lives and when things seem out of control they resort to all kinds of methods which they have complete confidence in - or at least it allows them to continue their illusion of being in control of their life.
1) The author, who is a professor of divinity, did not talk about Jesus, faith, salvation, Scripture, or heaven and 2) the author stayed pretty surfacey and vague throughout the book.
I suppose she was referring to her anger about her cancer diagnosis when she took up swearing for Lent, but, all in all, she mostly rehashed what she had researched about the Prosperity Gospel Movement for her first book.
It is not clear how much she actuallly accepted of their teachings, nor what her beliefs about God, Christianity, Scripture, death, suffering, etc.
I never do this, but 140 pages into a 175 page book, I gave up.
Eh.It's not the best cancer/facing death memoir I've read in the last few years but its certainly not the worst either. Kate's thoughts were a bit all over the place but I still enjoyed her voice. She had a few good quotes/realizations about living and dying but I probably wouldn't read it again though.
