https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/326510.Karmabhumi
Read this in my struggle towards getting a better grip on my mother-tongue.I love Premchand's books for their simplicity of language and characters.
Your love and hate towards the characters will surely go vice-versa by the end.More than 50% through, I couldn't figure what the main plot is about!Interesting to see a revolutionary plot in a pre-independence India which is not about freedom struggle or related revolutions.At times, the content was so heavy that I couldn't continue and needed a lighter read in between.
And that's the thing about Premchand - evergreen!However could not enjoy this one as much as I wanted to, in spite of reading in a group.
It is story of life of an idealist who wants to weed out the evils that have hold back the country and during this journey he is married to a woman who is egregiously opposite in character.
The woman wants her husband should take the responsibilities of house before working for the society and the country.
On a personal note, I think Hindi is dying day by day.
I have seen mothers not allowing their children to speak Hindi lest their children will get less fluent in English.
Since when a language has become a barrier.
Godan stands tall among the novels of Premchand and it is the one that is closest to my heart.But Karmbhumi is equally relevant in today's scenario.
I've seen my fellow young men discard Gandhi's beliefs by accusing them of being impractical.
But this novel picks the ideals of peace and ahimsa (which were there long before Gandhi used them) from the rubble of retaliation and restores it on the throne of originality and tangibility.
Unlike godan, it does not cover all states of thought and does not trace personal philosophical metamorphoses.
But that is because it focuses on something much, much important.
This is the first hindi novel I have read, and the first in works of much acclaimed Munshi Premchand(except for abridged stories in school curriculum).
The novel very well portrays many facets of the pre-colonial Indian society in the northern state on the bank of river Ganges.
The novel picks up pace in the middle and ends on a very high.
The use of hindi language is very well and taking into consideration the knowledge of hindi in today's generation, its not very hard.Finishing with a quote from the novel, which I liked and remembered:भय की भांति साहस भी संक्रामक होता है।
Fantastic. A books about social change, ideologies and the nature of men and women in times of crises. What does it take for a man or a woman to awaken from lethargy and slumber? What does it take to recognise the need to act - in a way that will benefit others more than self? What makes sacrifice, a worthy ideal?These are issues very few authors can handle - succinctly and without any unnecessary words. Premchand is that class of an author!
Maybe not very entertaining with its story-line, but great work portraying a revolution against aristocracy in British Raj; and situation of religion in Brahman infested Hindu society. Besides, Premchand has penned family, relation, and love in his typical interesting way.
want to read
Except for Sukhda almost all characters are inconsistent. Too much of idealism makes story very boring. Story moves here and there or rather there is no plot. Totally disappointed.
किताब पांच भागों में है। कहानी, अनय परेमचनद की कहानियों की तरह ही उततर परदेश के देहाती और शहरी कषेतर
किताब पांच भागों में है। कहानी, अन्य प्रेमचन्द की कहानियों की तरह ही उत्तर प्रदेश के देहाती और शहरी 
Again , this was written in 1930's,to write about these topics (like Untouchability, Hypocritical religious practices, Inter faith love interests,Women empowerment,corruption among the ruling classes) than would be like living in a kerosene soaked house and attempting to cook.That too under British Raj, oh so many times i wondered why has the author not named names when time came to the assign responsibility for the pain caused to the people specially the farmers, but of course he didn't name names, they would never have allowed it to be published.So, Premchand had cleverly used other tools at his disposal, linking greed, hypocritical laws and lawmakers and pointed in the general direction.All in all, this novel was the amalgamation of every aspect of the Gandhian ways, a family’s struggle to finally finding in each other the very comfort that they had craved all their lives, a true companionship and sense of peace brought by the services of others.As always it was a pleasure reading one of the most celebrated authors in all his glory.
I read stories by Munshi Premchand ji in textbooks in schools.
Writing of munshi premchand ji are so deep you don’t not read that you feel them.
There was one story in school time “budi kaki”, After reading that I used to cry.After a long time I read one book written by munshi premchand ji, karmabhumi.
It felt like I was not just reading any book, I was living in book.The way munshi ji described relationship in family, principles of people.
This book made me to change my point of view my relationship with everyone.Love is described in such a beautiful way, that relationship seems pure, quite deep and divine.
I am not much of an avid reader, but this book has entered into one of my favorites.
The flaws - The plot isn't very coherent.
It shifts randomly and certain parts became a chore to read.
- Even the character changes are rather random, which takes the reader out of the story.The good- All characters are given focus.The character development, and the way all the character lines congregate towards the end is brilliant!
The ending is sensational, and brought a tear to my eye.
- The social commentary about issues like inter-faith marriage, the rich-poor divide, oppression of the untouchables etc.
3.5/5
Book Compatible with all time and virtues. Amazing creation with Gandhian Thoughts and the Philosophy of Karma.
Something was happening in the plot but I was clueless as to why is it happening. Disappointed for the first time by Premchand. I left the book in the middle; didn't finish.
The best thing I have read so far....
Worth a read
Portrays India's social life in 1920s
best book
What a book....
A remarkable novel yet i'v forgotten all abt it..except d fact dat i finished it n a single train journey back n 2004!
Karmabhumi began really well. I absolutely loved the first 60 pages or so. The characters were beautiful - quirky, but not too much, the language was simple - succinct and beautiful with little metaphors that made my heart happy to read. The translation hasn't in the least reduced their beauty. A camel faced with a mountain had become aware of his own height.If death comes, one dies. But that doesn't mean one jumps into fire willingly. The characters were all well formed with their own depths an
They had their weaknesses and strengths, just as people do, they made mistakes, and regretted and rectified the same when they could, just as people do.With a choice of title that makes me wonder what Premchand means by it, Karmabhumi is the story of struggle.
It's a story that weaves the lives of the people you see around you, placed in a historical context, replete with ideas of revolution and idealism, conformation and pragmatism and, I cannot miss, the ultimate struggle against one's own self, one's desires and one's yearning for the truth.I wonder how reading this in the original Hindi must be.
Nice and classicEvery scene was elaborated very Nicely and in a detail manner but somewhere who will find that detail to the point is too much but everything is compensated by the Munshi ji In the last. I liked it very much other than that it is upto you.
The real battle is always on the inside.
परम और सापेकष , यथारथ और आभासी मूलयों के सनदरभ में कही गयी निशछल परेम व अथाह साहस की कहानी
परम और सापेक्ष , यथार्थ और आभासी मूल्यों के सन्दर्भ में कही गयी निश्छल प्रेम व् अथाह साहस की कहानी
Very nice novelBahut hi achhi book hai Desh ke liye kitna pyar tha logo me is novel ke madhyam se btaya gya hai jarur padhe
A good read if you can overlook the hurried tying of the loose ends at the end.
Boring and full of cliches.
Good representation of rational minds in fudel and conservative society vis-a-vis independent struggle and issues of deprived class.
