https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8703159-the-father-brown-mysteries

This audio book brings to life eight of these classic stories with a full cast, music, and sound effects by the Colonial Radio Theatre on the Air. Included in this volume are "The Blue Cross," "The Secret Garden," "The Queer Feet," "The Arrow of Heaven," "The Three Tools of Death," "The Flying Stars," "The Point of a Pin," and "The Invisible Man."I greatly enjoyed this radio production of the Father Brown mysteries.
It's productions like this that make me want to listen to more audiobooks.I've checked out the Father Brown mysteries that had been played on PBS/BBC.
In volume #1, there were eight episodes which I have enjoyed so much.
Abstract:This is a collection of some of Father Brown's mysteries which he has solved/deducted based entirely on human psychological traits.Verdict:I loved the collection.
Yet he seems to know everything and solves even the unsolvable mysteries just by breaking down the suspect's way of thinking.
Interesting theory.Another thing I noticed in Father Brown's stories is that some characters are repeated in a few stories, thus creating a sense of familiarity among the readers.Overall, it's a quite good collection, specially for mystery lovers who are likely to find some classic murder mysteries in here.
I love the Father Brown series on PBS and while I enjoyed reading this, I think I prefer the PBS series probably because sometimes the British English is so different from American English (how did that happen?). Most of the stories were not shows I have already seen so they were fresh and entertaining. The characters on the TV series seem more affable than those in the book. I love how Father Brown is so clever, sees what no one else seems to see and outwits the police time after time.
G.K.Chesterton is one of my literary heros. It was fantastic.

Took me almost exactly 2 years to finish this, largely because I was only reading one story at a time - any more may have left me with literary indigestion, partly because of Chesterton's heavily embroidered writing style, and the moralistic overtones of most of the stories.
A good collection however, especially on a kindle, where you can read a story at a time in all sorts of places without having to go looking for a bulky anthology.
Echo the reservations of others re the casual racism and other non-pc language in some of the stories, but Chesterton was a man of his time.
Nothing like 24 short mysteries for $0.99. Picked this up 2 years ago and forgot I had it. Only ok. They weren't mysteries in the sense I think of that genre, just short stories really. The casual racism of the time is very hard to stomach, few of the characters felt fully drawn, and mostly Father Brown sees things the reader doesn't or knows things the reader doesn't, so after 2-3 pages of set-up before the reader is really pulled in, he explains things.
Had to return this to the library because I moved. Only read two stories which, it turned out, I'd read before. Following A Man Called Thursday is a tall order so, based on the two stories I read, don't expect something in the same vein. Valentin's story ended slightly oddly, I thought! And rolling severed heads in the garden - really!
I greatly enjoyed this radio production of the Father Brown mysteries. Admittedly, some of the voices got a bit obnoxious, but generally, the characters were diverse and creative and it felt as though they just jumped right out of my CD player. It's productions like this that make me want to listen to more audiobooks. Bravo!
Liked the show and thought I would try to books. They books are awful and just sooo sooo dull.
Piqued my interest in Chesterton though! I appreciate him so much.
A classicThe stories were often intriguing and had surprise endings. However, some were hard to follow. This book contains classics and I am glad I was able to read them .
I listen while walking my aging westie - he is 12 years oldOne story per walk the actor playing Father Brown sounds a bit like Graham Norton!!!
Love Father Brown -- classic page turning mysteries in the style of Sherlock with the quirky Catholic priest, formerly of Saint Mungo's.
The PBS series got me hooked on these stories. I hardly ever figured out the twists. Plus, Chesterton's observations of human nature and stylish prose are ever fresh.
