https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171748.Find_a_Victim
This is by no means the first good Lew Archer, but it is the first that feels like quintessential Archer to me, its characters confined to narrow psychological spaces and dwarfed by the immensity of family history. Except for a barely relevant--though exciting--shootout with hijackers, everything in this novel contributes to the conclusion, and the last chapter is extraordinarily powerful and effective. Macdonald's portraits of the police chief of Los Cruces and his wife--good people enmeshed in a dark pattern--linger in the memory.
The guy died despite Archer's best effort, so the latter decided to poke around in the nearby small town where the victim was living.
The identity of the main culprit was obvious fairly early, so I was sure I would rate this novel with 3.5 stars.
My grandmother lived in such small town and some of the stories she told were really unsettling.
Please do not think I try to badmouth every single small town and every single person living there.
In fact there were several fairly decent people in the book as well.
Although his novels were written over 50 years ago, they still stand up with anything that's written today.Find a Victim is one of the better entries in the Lew Archer series, even though his best work was to come (see The Doomsters, The Chill or The Underground Man).Unlike some of today's private eyes (I'm looking at you Spenser), Archer wasn't afraid to get the crap kicked out him to facilitate the plot.
Also, Archer doesn't have an annoying anorexic girl friend or an army of thugs at his beck and call.Sure, the writing of these types of novels has evolved, but the Archer novels are still the real deal.
Money and marijuana, the stuff that dreams are made of. Occasionally after reading a Lew Archer novel I have trouble recalling who exactly hired Archer and why by the time I've finished the novel.This time around Archer is on his way to Sacramento to give a report on narcotics distribution in the southern counties to a state legislative committee. Outside the town of Las Cruces, Archer is flagged down by what looks to be a hitchhiker. After passing the hitchiker, he looks in his rear-view mirro
The owner displays a pronounced indifference to the seriously injured man but his wife phones for an ambulance from the local hospital and then calls the sheriff's office.Archer notes the obvious tension between the motel owner and his wife.
Lew Archer beats up bad-guys and gets beaten up by bad guys.
"The week after my wife left me.""I didn't know you had a wife.""That was a long time ago.""Why did she leave you?""She said she couldn't stand the life I led.
More like Find a Plot, a smartass might say.
Just sorta like the Dali Lama's sex life: not much to talk about.I blame the setting.
The whole gimmick is Archer's off his turf, see, thrown into a small city where the locals are lapping up their own inbred corruption.
Only the locals aren't that grotesque or dangerous, and by the time you hit the big revelation (think Chinatown), well, you've seen it done with a bigger gut-punch.Still, a humdrum Archer is more fun than just about anything this side of a midget hooker with a monocle.
Good noir fun from a classic master of the genreRead on the plane from Vienna to LondonLew Archer finds himself in a small Californian town near the Nevada border picking up a dead body by the side of the road.
MacDonald doesn't seem to have a set style or tone for this series so far but of the many he wrote I'm sure he must have settled on something by the end.Archer is your typicl smooth talking, moral, PI who has a way with the ladies and makes enemies real easy.
If you like the style MacDonald is your man.
basic problem is i like almost everything ross macdonald did: this one counted five is because it has such a bittersweet resolution, when indeed you follow the title.
it is more the web and weave of emotional connections of past and present, child and parent, than just a mystery to solve.
i like how arbitrary, how inevitably, lew archer is drawn into this case.
and when the motives of the suspect, of family, of other characters, emerge, it is not so much a revealed plot but the latent plot that resolves like the title.
hard so hard to live in this world...
Moments of brilliance in a puddle of mud, with an ending so clichéd and stupid you just want to hurl the book away from you.Some of Macdonald's prose is quite wonderful, see below.
There is almost no "sharp dialogue" or banter here, a real negative in the crime-noir business.The plot is very complex, with lots of obvious red-herrings, clearly thrown in to disguise just how confused Macdonald's story really is.I read The Galton Case before, and I was not impressed.
"The room was like a segment of her future waiting for her fate to overtake it.
Another great Lew Archer detective noir book from Ross Macdonald.
Archer wants to find out who killed him.
Here, we find out more about his prior marriage and divorce but also that he was a WWII veteran and that he is still dealing with all of those issues.On a side note, I think I figured out another reason I love these detective/noir stories so much.
This is another great addition to the series and I recommend it highly.As always with Macdonald's books, there are many great quotes:"Whatever her business was, there had to be sex in it.
Without planning it, I find myself now reading Ross Macdonald's entire Lew Archer series. This is better than the guys writing today. Macdonald is better than Connelly, Lehane, Grafton and the current crowd. At least, I enjoy him more.Now, on to Barbarous Coast . . .
I've read and enjoyed some Ross MacDonald in the past, but I think I liked "Find a Victim" the best. Wonderful writing, really good mystery.
Dashiell Hammett, Ross MacDonald, and Dave Goodis are heads above the rest of the classic crime novelists.
I'd easily take MacDonald over Chandler any day.
Cain, James Crumley, and Jim Thompson, though each of those are have one foot in a particular subset of crime fiction that involves the problem of the grift or the confidence scheme, and to complicate things further, this often involves their own emotional blindspots taking them for a ride on the circumstances they find themselves in, so i'm not sure they really fall into the straight crime/mystery section that is lazily tagged as pulp.
Were there any justice, this stuff would be central to anyone's reading in mysteries/crime fiction.
Getting better with each book. More action. Better action. Less explication at the end. Scenery for background, not to look seedy. Real psychology if amateur. Still some loose ends as you go - not the ideal detective story yet. Much more sense of Archer as a real person.
The chameleon desert mocked the sky, and the joshua trees leaned crazily into the rushing dawn."Find a Victim (1954) is the fifth novel in the Archer series (I am still in the author's early period in my "Re-read Ross Macdonald" project).
The sheriff's sister-in-law disappears, further murders happen, and the plot gets more complicated although not as much as in some later novels by Kenneth Millar (Ross Macdonald's real name).The best aspect of the novel is the author's ability to convey the sense of place and his wonderful prose portraying the country of Sierra Nevada's west slopes and the bleak and barren landscapes of the desert terrain near the California-Nevada border.
Excellent book. Archer is flagged down by what he thinks is a hitchhiker, until he sees the guy has been shot. Archer takes him to the hospital. As a result he will spend the next few days in Las Cruces encountering murder, a highjacked truckload of booze, incest, beatings, fights, a shootout, a bank robbery, an abandoned air base, frustrated women, marijuana, and a lot of money. Beautifully written, poetic, yet still hardboiled. Terrific insights. A real pleasure to read. Exciting, mysterious, and thought provoking.
This entry in the Lew Archer series was a bit too hardboiled for my tastes. However, the ending was surprisingly heartrending so maybe it deserves another  star...
This entry in the Lew Archer series was a bit too hardboiled for my tastes. However, the ending was surprisingly heartrending so maybe it deserves another ½ star...

Another one I mostly listened to on some long drives. This one has its moments, good and bad. The wrap up is suitably dark and twisted. Along the way there’s some queasy racial characterizations and some absolutely absurd reefer-madness style characterizations of drug use.Macdonald hit his stride later, it seems. Still, not bad.
The owners were there, the manager having not been in all week, and the husband was reluctant at first to help him.
The man had died on the way to the hospital.As he stayed, everything began to be connected.The dead man had been driving a semi and trailer loaded with $75,000 worth of bourbon.
The bourbon had belonged to the motel owner.
The owner of the missing truck was the father of the missing motel manager.
The Sheriff was married to the owner's other daughter.Archer gets hired to find the missing daughter and the load of bourbon and as he gets into it, dirty little secrets began to be uncovered.


Oddly enough, what I like most about this book is probably the relationship dynamics: they're extremely realistic.
I could completely believe that his female characters in this book were real people with real motives.
(view spoiler)[I really just felt bad for the killer, she was clearly messed up, and everyone around her just made it worse.
(hide spoiler)]It also wasn't too predictable, yes, a lot of people were involved in criminal acts, but I didn't guess at who the actual killer was until right before it became completely apparent.
I think that Ross Macdonald was a good writer who revitalized an important American genre.
However, this is not one of his better books.
Although it has flashes of the Macdonald touch - supple, funny dialogue, a witty sense of pessimism - the book becomes entangled in a confusing plot.
Furthermore, the number of traumatic head injuries that Lew Archer sustained stretched my credibility: it seems like in virtually every chapter someone is punching him in the head, he is falling on his head, he is getting hit with the butt of a gun in the head, or some other fatal injury is being inflicted on his head.
I see this book as the turning point in the Archer series: Macdonald twisting the plot in on itself just enough to form a figure eight (symbol of the infinite) instead of the more traditional loop (begin with a crime, end with its solution). With this discovery, Macdonald's plots get a whole lot more interesting. Prior to this novel, you see Macdonald either settling for Chandlerian confusion or working things out in entirely predictable ways, but after this, you may or may not know what is coming, but you surely won't know what its importance is until the final sequence.
This is a solid detective novel in the vein of Raymond Chandler. Writing is not quite as flashy or impressive - you'll find no quotable similes and metaphors here. But I felt that the characters were a bit more realistic and developed. Lew Archer is a good guy, but he's less morally self-satisfied than Phillip Marlow, which makes for a nice change.
Although #5 in the series, this was my first Lew Archer book (eNYPL audio). There are a few more MP3s of Ross Macdonald that I might check out -- it's not too bad as an "easy listening" experience, while cooking or cleaning -- but I suspect there are better examples of noire/pulp fiction out there, e.g. Hammett and Chandler, and maybe NYLP has MP3s of those for me, instead. It was okay.
Not a good book. In some genres you can get away with a plot based on unlikely coincidences. Hardboiled crime isn't one of those genres. Plot is utterly loony, but otherwise it is the usual Macdonald stuff. Unless you're reading the series in sequence skip this one...
The latest in my Archer binge is extra special for (1) mentioning Portland (where a bank was robbed) and (2) containing a monkey puzzle tree.
There is a family history problem motivating a lot of the plot, but it’s not interesting or compelling, unlike the plots in the later Lew Archer stories.Important Characters, alive and dead:Tony Aquista, dying truck driver.Sal Braga, deputy sheriff.Mr. Meyer, owns a big trucking company.Anne Meyer, his younger daughterBrandon Church, sheriff.Hilda Meyer Church, his wife.Don Kerrigan, motel owner with big plans.Kate Kerrigan, his wife.Jo Summer, nightclub singer.Leonard Bozey, young hood.Mr. MacGowan, caretaker of an old inn in the mountains.Sally Devore, runs a gas station near the mountain inn.Recurring name: Lake Perdita occurs as Laguna Perdita in The Far Side of the Dollar.Examples of good writing:“She was as full of sex as a grape is full of juice, and so young that it hadn't begun to sour.”“The air turned colder as night deepened.
3.5 StarsLongstanding readers of this blog may recall my intention to work through Ross Macdonald’s hardboiled novels – more specifically the books featuring his Los Angeles-based private detective, Lew Archer.
I know what I’m going to get with a Lew Archer novel: something familiar yet satisfying with enough twists and turns to maintain my interest.
As the book opens, Archer is driving from Los Angeles to Sacramento when he is flagged down by a blood-stained man who has been shot and left to die in a ditch near a deserted stretch of the highway.
