https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/778990.Timescape
(once in a while)• It works well as a mild sedative.The Meh!-ness—• There are some cool bits of forward thinking in this book, although none of them are truly prophetic, and they needed to be if they were going to be better than average.
The bulk of the ecological blame falls to Brazil for their destruction of the rainforests, but there is no mention, anywhere in the book, of the worldwide market forces that must motivate such destruction.• Page 413-414 of my copy – which I received as a bookmooch – are missing.
One of the earliest Hard science fiction novel that I have read.
A mind blowing for a simple reader who just thought faster than light concept was it was moving very fast.
A solid gold five star book in idea side.I have read some of author's short stories, and failed read one of his Galactic Center novel.
Even with all that negative experience, I could finish read this book.
The plot and storytelling is slow, as if confirmed my low expectation before reading this book.
But you should read this book because the idea.
That's one reason I read SF novels.
Two scientists, Englishman John Renfrew and American Gregory Markham, lead a team that is urgently trying to use tachyons to send warnings back to the physicists of 1962 to head off the environmental collapse that will occur in the intervening decades.Given the premise, you might reasonably expect the story to be a nail-biting thriller in which the scientists of the future are racing against time to send back messages sufficient to convince the scientists of 1962 that they are really from the future, not a hoax or communications from aliens, and provide enough data that these scientists of the past can mobilize the world to stave off future disaster.
I was gripped by the desperate and uncertain efforts to communicate something to the past that might prevent the ecological disaster in the present.
And, by the slow, uncertain process of discovery, efforts to interpret and understand and finally communicate its import--the slow poignant unraveling of the truth.
Benford's evocations of past and future academic settings was dead-on and sobering to those of us who've worked in those environments as I was when I read the book.
Today we face multiple potentially world-killing ecological causal chains, and have the processing ability to tease them out and predict their outcomes much more accurately and chillingly then back in 1980 when this book was first published.
For about the first 150 pages, I considered DNFing this novel.
But it slowly picked up.
While I still think the novel is too long--by at least 100 pages, due to detailed descriptions of building architecture and what characters had for dinner--I ended up giving it 3 1/2 stars.
The story came together, becoming quite interesting, and by the end, was exploring the possibility/probability of a (view spoiler)[multiverse (hide spoiler)].
One must remember this was written in 1980!
(I wonder if it's the first novel about that subject, then?) The fact that the author is a physicist helped my rating (info given in the Afterword).
Lots of potential but never realized. Too wordy with unintelligable technical jargon. I hated the end, though it was probably more realistic than another scenario.This is the first and only time I ever threw a book in the garbage after reading it. I just couldn't inflict anyone I know with it.
Timescape is both a fascinating, hard SF book about sending messages backwards through time to save the world and a dull soap opera.
The messages are received by a lone scientist in 1963.The SF portions of the book are really well-done.
For the most part, these characters just aren't leading terribly interested lives, but they're treated as though they are.
There are a few female scientists, but they aren't allowed to actually do anything on the page.
The messages being sent back in time are meant to give scientists a head start on the pesticide problem.
The science is interesting and clearly written, but it's just background noise to the character drama on the forefront.
The timing is right on and the whole chapter is very satisfying.On the flip side it's outweighed by incompetent segues: a highly romanticized scene in which a character accidentally stumbling in on his girlfriend using the toilet, vividly describing e.g.
All told there's a lot of wading through the bland and occasionally awful just for a few bits of perfectly crafted writing (or as your interest may be: the "science" half of this SF novel).
Benford also follows the flow of the physicists in the past with whom they have made contact as they attempt to understand and interpret what has happened to an otherwise simple physics experiment.Much of the novel is concerned with the social and political workings of the scientists.
The team of the future faces constant constraints in their work due to top-down limitations imposed by a council who allocate scarce resources to what they view as the "most practical" science dealing with the disaster; and this physics experiment is (perhaps rightfully) viewed as a long shot.
This is it: good, hard science fiction.
The science is so hard my head hurts.
With each point of view shift the reader is taken inside the mind and the world of that character.Benford has no trouble recreating southern California in the 60s because he lived it, but his 1998 Cambridge, UK (written in 1979) tastes just as authentic.
The gloomy future is the worst of all possible worlds as projected by liberals and conservatives about the time Benford wrote.
Or Rachel Carson's "Silent Spring" (1964)?)Benford also captures the horror of science (and it might as well be arts) dictated by government committees interested in only in practical applications.
Un físico de Cambridge, John Renfrew, demuestra que es capaz de enviar un mensaje al pasado usando la ciencia y propone avisar, en lugar y forma adecuados a la única naturaleza posible del mensaje, para que pongan los medios necesarios y eviten la situación catastrófica.
En 1963 y en California, el profesor Gordon Bernstein está molesto por una fuente de “ruido” no identificada en su experimento de resonancia nuclear.
Su investigación sobre el origen del mismo, con la intención de continuar con su trabajo, le revelará que es mucho más que una interferencia: es un mensaje.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Scientists experiment with sending a message of warning, via tachyons, to the past.
The message is received by scientists in 1963 among controversy as to its authenticity.
That's the science fiction part of the book, a relatively small part.
The story gets bogged down in interpersonal conflicts and social vagaries in the lives of the scientists, their colleagues, department heads, and funding sources.
It just goes on and on.I almost abandoned this book about two thirds of the way through.
It has entirely too much extraneous social drama.
It would have been a much better science fiction book and about two hundred pages shorter.
I really enjoyed the book and thought the characters were genuine, believable and also interesting, and then the book ended very suddenly ruining what had been a 5 star book, meaning it only got 4 stars. What happened, did he have to meet a deadline and so cut it short or did he just not know how to end it. Either way I think the last 20/30 pages were rushed and spoiled what was until then a well written book, giving a genuine view of people's personalities. Shame
The result is a really rich story, with almost too many overlapping elements that all must be explained and interwoven: an environmental collapse and its effects on the world, an idea for scientifically plausible time travel (if only messages), the inner workings of academic science labs at both ends of the time travel line and the problems that each group has sustaining funding and peer respect given their bizarre ideas, and the personal lives of the men involved, including several substantial relationship issues with their various wives and girlfriends.
Otprilike kao i prethodni Benfordov roman koji sam procitao Artifact, odlicna nauka, tacnije kvantna fizika, i sve ostalo moze slobodno da se preskoci. Ocena 2.5
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/1799572...Written in 1980, with storylines set in 1962-63 and 1998, this is a scientists' sf novel, the future 1998 world facing ecological and social catastrophe and its physicists trying to communicate with their predecessors to prevent it from happening.As a Cambridge NatSci graduate I loved the visceral detail of the decaying 1998 setting, though Benford failed to predict one element of real life decay, the extinction of independent bookshops - he still has Bowes and Bowes open and staffed by attractive young women, when in real life I think it closed in the early 90s.But it's a bit less satisfactory as a novel than I remembered it from my first reading.
Slow, with annoying characters. I got highly irritated by some bits, and probably missed key explanations because I listened (distracted and bored) to the audiobook. I can see why it won a Nebula for the science, but the other 75% was a protracted snoozefest of old-fashioned stereotype-laden domestics.
TIMESCAPE je zasigurno jedan od najboljih hard sf romana svih vremena.Proza je prvorazredna,karakterizacija za čistu peticu,znanstvena komponenta je sjajno uklopljena u radnju i u perfektnom je balansu sa ostalim aspektima narativa.Ovaj izuzetan roman dokaz je da su znanstvenici itekako u stanju stvoriti vrhunsku književnost. Čista petica.
I probably would have given it more stars had they cut out about a hundred pages.It starts very quickly - earth in trouble, the oceans are dying, but we might be able to send a message back into time to save the planet.
There's a long period of time where nothing happens - Gordon Bernstein, from 1963, becomes a laughing stock because the messages stop coming.
Unfortunately, that's who Benford wants us to spend a lot of time getting to know.
I didn't like Bernstein enough to care what happened to him.All in all, a little disappointing, especially after such a great start.
It's almost as if the author sat there and asked himself Now, what qualities can I give this character to make the reader not like them in the least?
It got so bad that there were points at which I contemplated abandoning the book.While the poor characters are the biggest problem, there are others.
I don't mean that he's done a poor job of predicting 1998 technology from his actual real timeframe of 1980.
I lost count of the number of times one of the main characters had his momentum blunted.
The male characters are bland and wonk-y, like talking heads for the author's scientific theories.
This book's 1998 is a stressed-out world with advanced science, and it's circling extinction.
It's like a stage setting in the background, rather than a richly believable world we can live in as readers.But literary shortcomings are not this book's greatest fault.
Even for 1980, the date of publication, this book presents stereotypes of women that are insidious and obnoxious.
The author parades the women like props who exist to serve and please their men.
I think the reader is supposed to dislike him but this compulsion of his was the only entertaining thing in the entire book.There isn't much that is futuristic about 1998 except, comically, the characters drive by a bunch of apes doing road work.
Why the overpopulated and under-employed society of the future needed to put orange vests and overalls on apes and change their DNA so they could experience the wonders of wage slavery was not explained.The main character in 1963 is a painful stereotype of a Jewish New Yorker who was dating an annoyingly stereotyped Sun-kissed California surfer-girl.
This book has rightly been called a classic of the hard science fiction genre.
Benford wrote "Timescape" in 1979-80, and the book alternates between 1963 and 1998.
Unlike some other hard SF writers (cough!
cough!) Benford finds ways to make me care about his characters, even those who are manifestly unlikeable.
The reader finds reward in finishing this book and thinking more about the real-world process of science and the conceptualization of time presented by the author.
To be fair, I only read the first half of the book, and then gave up.
They're like "you can't change the past such that you would make it impossible for you to have sent the message in the first place, because the past will simply not quite understand you (whether through signal loss or other things)".
Somehow nobody sees that if they were to actually prevent the bad stuff, it would create a situation where they wouldn't even be trying to contact the past, and the paradox which they basically PROVED would happen.
By contacting the past, they're kind of guaranteeing the bad stuff happens, as it forms a time-loop.
This often means that if an author simply cannot write at all, or does not write very well, they can get away with their failings if the ideas and the storyline are interesting enough.
He starts off well enough with his initial delineation of the paradoxes involved in time travel, or in this case the communication between different eras.
But Benford in the end has nothing at all new to say about the paradoxes of time travel.
There came a time when I was simply turning the pages of this book just waiting to get to the end and move on.
For me, reading this book was a waste of time.
Three of the last ten books I read have delved into 1962 and 1963, and of them this was the worst.Gregory Benford has a solid science background, and creates a plausible story of what if.
The scientists debate paradox, saying it would stop their progress, but ultimately ignore the idea.
Unfortunately, the authors ideas on paradox and the many-worlds interpretation come out quite muddled.
Chaos theory and the butterfly effect, in vogue as this was written, do not make an appearance.Worse than the time speculations are the characters, who are universally unlikable.
These were co-written with Benford's sister-in-law.
I really liked it, as others have said it was a bit heavy handed on the physics, but I really didn't expect anything else from an actual physics professor.
But that's because I'm interested in that aspect of scientific research and environmental development.
I do so I was kept very interested in this book by the combination of science happening, interpersonal relationships, and speculative future developments.
So I would recommend this book to people who like science, and I wouldn't really to people who don't, the details can bog the story down and if you're not interested in it there's no way any interest will spark.
This is a fascinating and gripping novel, full of ideas, expressed lyrically but with precision and peopled with well-rounded characters whose personal and inner lives are not merely dimension-lending addenda to the story.
It falls apart a bit because there are maybe too many ideas, too many strands of thought and speculation - time travel, time paradoxes, multiple universes, the nature of time, of reality, of causation, unpredictable outcomes, environmental myopia and so forth.
Still, a good novel, both as science fiction and as fiction, and it gives me more reason to explore Benford's work than the first of his novels that I tried, 'Against Infinity'.
This is one of the best time travel novels I've read.
This is one of the earliest places where the "time-streams" vs "time paradox" question begins to be dealt with.
Can time be changed?
What will happen if you change time?
If you go back to change time and succeed will you ever go back in the first place and then will time be changed?
Does an attempt set up a loop in time?
Will it provoke an entirely new universe..or maybe simply move the time traveler into an already existing but different universe?
Umm, hmm, eh.... I just don't know to say about this book right now. I was really hoping for much better however.
