https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207781.The_Art_Spirit
This photo says it better than I ever could.
Here's what I wrote in my blog about it...There are so many bits of wisdom in Robert Henri's The Art Spirit that it's hard to know what to share.
(I have "wow" and "cool" and "neat" written in red letters in the margins of just about every page...) But perhaps this is the most important thing--Robert Henri talks about creating art as the one "true happiness" in life.
It's simply about being open to the world, noticing what we love, and expressing that love in whatever form best suits us.
I can't do justice to this book, so won't try. Only thing I will say is that my copy is held together by rubber-bands.
10-20 pages at a time.I think any artist or creative person at any stage of their development can benefit from Henri, but I recommend this most for any aspiring, emerging or self-taught artist out there who could use a light in the dark.
What is our personal style and where does it come from?
I've wrestled with these and similar questions often on my own path and finding Henri was like falling into someone's arms after a very grueling struggle.
He pats you on the back and whispers "Shh shhh, it's going to be okay," and you think, yes.
Here's a quote from The Art Spirit: I once met a man who told me that I always had an exaggerated idea of things. He said, "Look at me, I am never excited." I looked at him and he was not exciting. For once I did not over-appreciate."Book includes philosophy of art and appreciation, concrete how-to instructions, and comments of famous artists and works of art.
The title of the book is quite accurate.
"The Art Spirit" deals with the inner drive of the artist and the pitfalls of art making.
Probably the most quotable art book I've ever read, almost every page has some bumper sticker wisdom to dispense, all of it quite remarkable.
But, as a figurative artist, I find every art student should read it at least once.
The main idea of the book isn't groundbreaking but it bears repeating: art is hard work that must be done by those who can't help it.
Amazing to read. It fills the well.
As Henri points out, “We are not here to do what already has been done…An interest in the subject, something you want to say definitely about the subject; this is the first condition of a portrait… the work is done when that special thing has been said.” Caricaturists seem to understand this innately; they hone in on a feature or gesture of their subject that gives voice to the character and temperament of its owner, as the artist sees it.
Writers should never forget that fiction is an art form. Henri speaks to the artist inside us all.
This book has changed me as an artist and as a human being.
It's not just for artists though!
It talks a lot about spirituality and human beings in general and how every human being can be an artist- it's not always expressed through the painting, drawing, the works.
It is a way of life, a way of knowing yourself as an individual, and a way of loving yourself the way you are.
Excellent book for students, whether they're students of art, or students of life.
Can't believe Robert Henri talked about all this over 100 years ago, and it's still incredibly relevant.
Must be true art!
Great book, an absolute must-read for anyone starting a new venture, going through a transition, or looking to build something bigger than themselves.
Art often all is but an extension of the expression of sensations too subtle for words." Pg. 87"See without limits." "All outward success, when it has value, is but the inevitable result of an inward success of full living, full play and enjoying of one's faculties." Pg. 93"The value of a school should be in the meeting of students.""The true artist regards his work as a means of talking with men, of saying his say to himself and others." Pg. 97"Age need not destroy beauty.
Robert Henri, leading American artist and teacher. One of my favorite books about the art of teaching art.
when man's acknowledgement of his true identity and substance, man will creatively discover what has been with him all along and be elightened as a result
it was good.
Robert Henri was a wonderful artist whose impact on American art is most felt by the work of his many illustrious students, including Edward Hopper, George Bellows, Rockwell Kent, Stuart Davis, as well as many female students who should be better known but faced discrimination in the early 1900s by sexist art critics.
He embodies a warm open-mindedness along with an enthusiasm for life that seems most similar in my mind to Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass (Henri was a big fan of his work) as well as Rilke's Letters to a Young Poet.Highly recommended, highly inspiring!
Robert Henri created the bible for any and every artist out there, it's called 'The Art Spirit.' If you're a painter, actor, musician, director, writer...
Robert Henri is not only the quintessential master of the arts, but he's also an incredible teacher.
That's what he keeps saying all the way throughout the book.
This man did not know what a God Complex is, a condition that majority of current teachers suffer from.I really can't say enough about this book, nor should I.
If you relate to any type of art form, simply read it.
Use your imagination all the way through, because "an artist who does not use his imagination is a mechanic."
Henri provided me so many useful quotes that he overwhelms my list of quotes.
Such as "There are always a few who get at and feel the undercurrent, and these simply use the surface appearances selecting them and using them as tools to express the undercurrent, the real life" and "A landscape has got to mean a great deal to anyone before it can be painted in any worthwhile way.
It is harder to see a landscape than to paint it." And, "develop your power of seeing through the effort and pleasure of seeing." And, "Don't ask for criticism until you are sure you can't give it yourself.

I bought this book after reading an interview with David Lynch in which he said something to the effect that this was his bible as a teenager... a lot of the book has to do directly with painting technique (I'm not a painter), but a lot of it is more generally philosophical about art, appreciation, and the "art life" in general. I really liked it.
I found so many things in this book. I have a strong feeling that I will be returning to this in the future to refresh the feeling that I got from it every time I sat down to read a few pages. Definitely worth picking up if you have the urge to be creative.
Soo-o-o much valuable information by a wonderful teacher.
Imagine Ezra Pound's "Guide to Kulchur" written specifically for a young artist.
I learned about The Art Spirit from David Lynch.
He considered it a guide to living the ideal "art life" wherein one paints all day, hangs out with likeminded friends, and drinks coffee.Robert Henri (1865-1929) was a painter, and much of his advice is technical, intended for his students as they went about mixing colors and making brushstrokes.
The greatness can only come by the art spirit entering into the very life of the people, not as a thing apart, but as the greatest essential of life to each one.
The author gives some technical advice and some notes on appreciation of art.
I do appreciate the view of the work that art is something that comes from the artist via their emotional take on their subject filtered through their medium and marked as individual through their technique.
It does contain alot of little tidbits and explanations of Henri's philosophical attitudes mostly mixed in with his technical advice and critiques.An attitude I wholeheartedly agree with presented in the book is that money is not art, the artist needs a deeper motive to create than only to make money.
I liked this book very much.
In that sense, it’s not a regular book but fragments of his lessons and letters.
A specific point I liked very much is his way of saying you should always learn, be like a child and never be a “finished” person.His writing is full of passion and joy to art and life.
adding to this his natural talent to educate, and his goal to produce honest art, What can you not like about that?
On the contrary, his joy and passion he finds in life and art are contagious and beautiful.
This book is written in a form similar to a letter to the author's students.
Some parts of the book are mildly confusing.
Perhaps it is due to my lack of artistic knowledge.
Content wise the book is full of abstract idea and from what I read I am guessing the author is trying to convey an attitude to his students.
Although the book name is "The Art Spirit", the author mainly talks about painting and drawing and less of other forms of art.
Not yet an artistic kind of person and not my kind of book.
I would say this is primarily for painters. I expected a book that had lecture that would pertain to more fields, but as Robert Henri was a painter, thus it was all about painting. (And how painting is superior to everything.) There were some bits that could be applied to all fields, but those read more like an inspirational novel. The descriptions of the paintings in the letters of critique are very dull.
It felt like going on a car trip: everyone told you it would be a superb experience, but from the beginning the road was in bad condition and you bounced off your seat the whole trip.
There was no road signs and you got lost soooo many times that you almost felt like giving up.
Yep, I noticed, my bad, i tried to read it as a book.
My advice would be to read it like those books with inspirational quotes.
Just read a chunk and get your artistic inspiration of the day.
My favorite quotes from this one.. a bit challenging to read, although a lot of beautiful takeaways, and insights: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A...
