https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263021.Dreamsnake
While this book gets docked a point or two for the cheesy 70s cover and the title, it deserves a place among the classics of the genre.
I also love that this book is not your typical post-apocalyptic nightmare.
It takes place so long after a nuclear catastrophe that society has rebuilt itself, albeit in a very different form.
While there are a couple of elements that seem as dated as the cover, all in all I thought McIntyre did a beautiful job of expanding that original story into the larger tale told here.
This book overwhelmed my tolerance and left me staggered by the sheer nonsense of it all.Welcome to a post-apocalyptic future where isolated communities blunder about in moral turpitude waiting for an oddly naive young woman to come straighten them out with good sense and her trusty snakes.
You see, snakes are used as drug dispensers in the future, and the woman (who's also named Snake) is a healer, so she carries around a cobra and a rattler for medicinal purposes.
They trained her in medicine and herpetology, but somehow neglected to mention that other people might have odd customs like not respecting other people's property, drug addiction or killing snakes.
Snake's only hope was to find a new dreamsnake - and on her quest, she was pursued by two implacable followers, one driven by love, one by fear and need.Me:I enjoyed this short little tale of a healer trying to find her place in the world, making mistakes as we all do and struggling to find a way out of a bad situation.
Who are the aliens who created the domes and brought the strange plants and dreamsnakes to Earth?
In a world where there are still so many books in which the female characters are stiff as cardboard or stereotypical caricatures , this book from the 1970s really shines as a book where I felt real affection for Snake.
Special mention should be made of the idea of a society that is in some ways more backward than ours, but in other ways more developed - normally, primitive or post-apocalyptic societies are just that, but McIntyre takes the more interesting and probably more realistic approach that some skills and technologies are able to survive even a general deterioriation in economic conditions, and maybe even may continue to progress.I think in the end I probably came away valuing it more as an interesting demonstration of what can be done in SF than as a novel in its own right, which I guess is both a compliment and a criticism.My fuller review as usual is over here on my blog
Dreamsnake is the extension of the award winning novelette Of Mist, And Grass, And Sand and is set at the same time and planet Earth as The Exile Waiting.It reads like a fantasy story like Tehanu for the first 50 pages before it becomes clear that it is a post-nuclear SF setting.
The eponymous Dreamsnakes are one of three kinds of snakes that healers in this setting use.
Emotions, characterization, and setting are absolutely worthwhile your reading time, and it deserved the triple Hugo/Nebula/Locus awards.
I only gave it three stars the first time, which surprised me when I looked it up and saw the raft of awards it got: Nebula, Hugo, Tiptree nomination, National Book Award finalist… I remembered it being quite like The Steerswoman in the narrative style, in the capable heroine; I remembered that the background of the story including queer and polyamorous characters in a casual, natural way — as well as plenty of capable women who knew what they were doing, who talked to each other (about things other than men!), who worked together.Happily, all of that is still there, especially Snake’s care for others: for Melissa, and also for Gabriel, for Arevin, for the people she treats as a healer.
Quick and dirty reading notes and (i)relevant thoughts (I read this novel a while ago, but I decided to go back and write a review, since is so little known. And what a pity that is. )✐ This is a very different kind of science-fiction and I read that the author had trouble finding a publisher since most folks took it for fantasy. In fact Dreamsnake reads like a classic western, and it's only the brief details (mentions of genetic engineering, craters of atomic bombs, collapsed domes of alien sp
(I read this novel a while ago, but I decided to go back and write a review, since is so little known.
In fact Dreamsnake reads like a classic western, and it's only the brief details (mentions of genetic engineering, craters of atomic bombs, collapsed domes of alien spacecrafts, etc) that set this novel in a extremely-far post-apocalyptic future.✐ The society presented ranges from the archaic tribal communities to a segregated super-developed city (the Center).
✐ I read some reviews complaining that the novel has some scientifically obsolete facts.
Cobras and rattlers and snakes that I personally do not want anywhere near me.
She had a few annoying moments, but was mostly a pretty good lead character.
(view spoiler)[I felt like at the very end it kind of dissolved into a cheesy romance novel, so that was annoying, but that was after it had some fun action scenes that were unexpected, considering the pace was meandering, camel crossing the desert slow.
I wanted a fun easy read and this delivered it; just don’t expect too much as some of it comes off as a little flat and predictable.
As with all post-apocalyptic books by women, this one has a wonderful gentle tone. Maybe it is because men always cause the destruction of the world. So their story must be a redemptive one. The stories by/about women are much more about healing and remembering.
Having just finished the hugly disappointing  The Vor Game in my quest to read all the Hugo winners, this was a welcome breath of fresh air.      It was controversial in its day (but probably not so much now), with its polyandrous and polygynous (why does my computer's dictionary accept the former, but not the latter?) family relationships, people who have sex for fun, and a female lead who enjoys male companionship but doesn't need it.      Apparently, it rubbed some readers the wrong way tha
Having just finished the hugly disappointing  The Vor Game in my quest to read all the Hugo winners, this was a welcome breath of fresh air.
Apparently, it rubbed some readers the wrong way that in a quest story set in a post-apocalyptic—and sometimes still radioactive—world, our "Mad Max" character is not only not a fighter but a healer.
McIntyre is, by background, a biologist, so even though her method of using snakes to cure disease was pure fantasy at the time, it was grounded in solid science.
Unlike so much older SF, what was then fantasy only seems more plausible now, not less.
Snake is a healer on her proving year, travelling the vaguely post-apocalyptic landscape (there's always a vague apocalypse) to treat illness and injury using the venom of her snakes, but when her dreamsnake is killed she must find a new source for the extremely rare creature or she will no longer be able to work as a healer.This reads like an Anne McCaffrey book, except with more restraint.
For no reason that is ever, ever explained?I could live with all that -- I have read and enjoyed many Anne McCaffrey books -- but this isn't very exciting.
What's the story behind the snake healing?Here's the other major problem: there's a lot of ableist language.
If there's a later book in which these aspects are more fully developed, then, cool, I liked this a lot.
If not, well, then, there's a lot of promise that is just left to wither out on the blasted nuclear desert of this future Earth.
(I presume Earth - it's suggested, but I suppose not explicitly said.)Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
And again with the crossover - although this reads very much like high fantasy, and that's what you'd probably think it was from the blurb, it's really a far-future post-apocalyptic sci-fi.
The pacing is insane, the last quarter of the book is utterly nuts (but fun!), and I can't really gloss over the instalovey romance thing like I did back then.
It's also a fast and easy read, with a strongly written woman as protagonist: Snake is self-reliant, sometimes to a fault, and she is utterly determined against overwhelming odds.
We have to place these things in their time.After all, where else are you going to get a surprisingly deep character and women's study dystopian future that includes aliens, nearly Bene Gesserit healers, the depths of adoption and justice, and a woman who embodies the symbol of wisdom as Snake?
To be sure, the novel is mild in comparison with so many gritty Dystopians or even a grand portion of YAs, but it does have heart.
The novel would never earn a Hugo these days, but we should never forget that those who start a trend that everyone later beats to death still began it.
4 stars--I really liked it.This novel has a strange format. There's no real main story arc, but rather many smaller stories of Snake traveling, healing, and having adventures. This didn't bother me at all, since I liked Snake and enjoyed her wandering. The other characters were enjoyable as well. Despite being a very old-school SF novel, it still felt fresh to me.My first McIntyre, but I hope to read others!
2016 Reading Challenge: Un libro protagonizado por un personaje con mi profesión Esta historia transcurre en un mundo postapocalíptico (presumo que la Tierra tras un desastre nuclear) del que se dan pocos detalles y en el que Serpiente, nuestra protagonista, tendrá que sobrevivir. Su oficio como sanadora depende de sus tres serpientes (Susurro, Sombra y Silencio), pero tras la pérdida de una de ellas deberá encontrar el modo de reemplazarla. El problema está en la escasez de serpientes del sueñ
Serpiente del sueño es un libro que aboga por el feminismo, de ahí que en lugar de puntuarlo con 4 estrellas, como me hubiera gustado, lo haya dejado en 3.
Porque esta novela debería ser leída en inglés, o en cualquier idioma en el que los sustantivos no puedan adquirir género (como ocurre en el español) y esa vertiente reivindicativa surta efecto.
De hecho, los obstáculos que el castellano supone para esta obra son previamente explicados por Miquel Barceló en una breve introducción, ya que no es un problema de los traductores, sino de las 'limitaciones' del idioma per se.
In Dreamsnake, Vonda McIntyre tells a captivating and moving story about a healer, Snake, and her quest to find a new dreamsnake after the death of her first, Grass.
The relationship that develops between Snake and Melissa, the young girl she adopts, is deep and believable enough to have moved me to tears.
However, because of the value the Snake places on her snakes (Mist, Sand, and Grass), I begin to care about the snakes, too.
Beyond good storytelling and compelling characters and relationships, McIntyre's novel is interesting because of its focus on biology as well.
Nutshell: oneiromancer replaces plot-significant serpent, then celebrates by screwing some wasteland mutants.Has a piece of Tehanu insofar as key relationship in the story is female protagonist and adopted girl, who is a victim of a sexual offense.Likewise has a piece of This Immortal, The Einstein Intersection, or A Canticle for Leibowitz to the extent that it is set in a nuclear wasteland, has some spacefarers or aliens, is contaminated by mutants, and follows a peregrinating protagonist.
Setting is not particularly memorable, and is the usual mix of primitivist barbarity and high tech found in far future, dying earth, and post-apocalyptic subgenres.
Presentation of protagonist and adopted daughter is effective.
I liked the relationships suggested here: two three-way relationships, apparently both stable and functioning well, suggesting a whole culture of three-way relationships, or at least permissiveness toward them...I wasn't sure about the male protagonist -- I've forgotten his name already -- and would almost have rather done without him.
I did like the build-up of the relationship with Melissa, though.Despite themes that normally bother me -- illness, rape -- I didn't find this difficult to read, at all.
I read it in under two hours, in four or five sessions on a single day.While I liked it, I didn't find it mindblowing, though.
Does disability HAVE to equal death in so many books?
These seem like genuine thoughts and actions from people who LIVE in their world, with entire lives' knowledge of background info that came to the fore as situation arose, not artificially displayed for some hidden reader /listener.The world itself, its harshness, the way people lived scrabbling to conserve and re-use every resource, is excellently realized, is thoroughly logically consistent and still beautiful.I like how the story begins with basic tribe-level subsistence-level life, ignorant of vaccination & complex medicine, then opens up from thereon to hint at greater and greater events, enlarging the scope and complexity of this world.
3.5 stars, rounded up.Well, this was fun - in a slightly cheesy 1970s way :-)Dreamsnake is set in a future post-apocalyptic landscape, but it reads more like fantasy.
It was more hopeful and upbeat than most such tales, and I enjoyed that about it.
I like snakes, and I liked that they were used in healing work in this story.
And the key to breading the "dreamsnakes" was fascinating and delightful.
I really couldn't buy the romance aspect of the story, though, it just felt too contrived.
I listened to the audiobook of this - the narrator was OK, but definitely needed speeding up!
Vonda K. McIntyre's picture of a healer, who heals with snakes in a dystopian world. All I can say is that this will remain one of my most favorite book for the rest of my life. I spent so much in tears -- but they were good, honest tears, I was moved because the writing is exquisite.
I might go back and re-read a couple of the ones I really like.My first 2016 book in this challenge is the 1979 winner, Dreamsnake by Vonda N.
I read this novel in middle or high school and I like the story so much that the plot stuck with me even if the title did not.
Ms. McIntyre expanded the story and it became Dreamsnake.
There was some sex and violence in this novel, but the way it was written, there was a barrier between the reader and the story and I never felt unduly concerned for the characters.
I was a Vonda McIntyre fan before I read this book.
Recently, for my Young Adult Lit class, I saw we were reading a short story called Of Mist, Grass, and Sand by Vonda McIntyre and I was very excited to read more of her work.
The short story was great, with a strong female protagonist, and was one of the best things I read in that class.
Everything about this book is well done.
The characters are vivid and interesting, with complex problems and emotions.
The world she's created is interesting but firmly in the background, not overwhelming the reader with world-building.
As I re-read this novel, the House GOP is currently attempting to defund the Affordable Care Act - an action that, if they are successful, would restrict access to health care for millions of Americans.
The concerns McIntyre raises in this novel over thirty years ago - access to health care, the hoarding of important resources by a privileged few - remain as poignant today as they did then.
But there is a sense of hope and optimism that pervades this post-apocalyptic tale, sadly missing in most current books in that genre.
This story feels more like a fantasy than science fiction, but it's actually a post-nuclear war story where society has returned to small agrarian villages and almost no relics remain of industrial technology.
(Travel, for example, is by horse.)Snake is a middle-aged woman who travels across these farmlands as a healer.
The story is roughly divided into three sub-adventures, held together by a common thread.Snake is an engaging character, generous but stubborn, strong in purpose if weak in body.
Unlike most post-apocalyptic fare, this story has very little violence.
Snake expects civility towards her as a healer as she travels unarmed and alone through the countryside.Very nice story, well-written, it easily holds the attention.
In our own world, snake venom is used to create antivenom but the slight twist McIntyre puts on this is great.
It would have been great to learn a bit more about the healers and their science, but I could tell that isn't the type of book McIntyre wrote.For the most part, the book follows Snake through her journey but there are a few passages that follow Arevin, a love-struck tribesman.
There was also a time when the possibility of going 'off-world' came up.
This is my favourite book of all time about to re-read again
Unikäärme on ydinkatastrofin jälkeiseen maailmaan sijoittuva tarina parantaja Käärmeestä, joka kulkee tiikerijuovaisella ponillaan yhdyskunnasta toiseen ja auttaa sairaita ja niitäkin, jotka ovat avun ulottumattomissa.
Käärme valmistaa kobransa avulla seerumin, joka voidaan antaa lapselle aamulla.
Yöksi Käärme jättää lapsen lähelle unikäärmeen, joka rauhoittaa ja antaa unen.Käärmeen vakuutteluista huolimatta hietakyiden kanssa elävät klaanilaiset pelkäävät käärmeitä niin paljon, että tuskin suostuvat välttämättömään hoitoon.
Unikäärmeitä ei saada lisääntymään, eikä niiden kloonaaminen ole helppoa.
Tarinan edetessä käy ilmi, että traaginen tapahtuma johtaa vaarallisiin seikkailuihin, mutta myös odottamattomaan menestykseen.
Suosittelen myös tutustumaan McIntyren toiseen suomennettuun teokseen "Aurinko ja kuu", joka on kiehtova vaihtoehtohistoria aurinkokuninkaan hovista ja merenneidoista.
