https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30274.Circus_of_the_Damned
A current Master Vampire of Anita's St. Louis was perceived to be weak by his peers.
As soon as slaughter started Anita realized the Master Vampire wannabe needs to be stopped.
She also has not realized the current Master did not care much about the developing situation.
A girl's got to have some standards."Critics did not like this bit too much: they got offended thinking Anita's dating preferences showed her racism towards poor creatures of the night.
On the other hand Anita is not the brightest girl on the block, no matter what she thinks about herself.
One of the reasons why it is so easy to get yourself hooked with Anita Blake is the action packed pace that doesn't leave much time for breathers between the violent outbursts and the vivid descriptions of Blake's Nike's.
This really does prevent any legit character development to happen, and one got to wonder how bad it gets the more one reads.Anita Blake is a woman with one dimensional imagination and thought process.
But she will keep doing it, for me, for reasons unknown.There was a little more spark in this book compared to the last two, but it was not something I was able to feel in my bones and soul.
To look more fashionable, of course.So, even though we want to picture Anita like this:She is actually more like this:So, in this book we have a pack of vampires murdering people.
It's like just because they are the undead doesn't mean they don't want a pop of color every once in a while.Anita is also trying to date Richard because she thinks he is just some nice human guy - which once again shows her dumbness.
Riiiiight...There is a lot of action in these books, which is fun, but I think I am getting to the point now where I am enjoying everyone trying to kill Anita more than anything else.
Going back to the beginning of the series has reminded me why I continue to read along even though it has morphed into another beast entirely.
It’s a little painful to read this stuff the second time around but the quick pacing and intriguing characters carry the book for me and I enjoyed the many plotlines here, none of which focus on sex I might add.Despite a lame-ass villain and too much arguing from Anita, I enjoyed this as much as the previous two in the series.
Anita does minor investigating, bad guys come out of the woodworks to try to kill her, Anita is rude and sarcastic to a bunch of people, and suddenly Anita is fighting off the Most Powerful *FILL*IN*THE*BLANK*.This book is no different.
Bad guys try to kill her, Anita stumbles onto some new vampires, and before you know it, the city is about to be turned upside down by a 1million year old vampire--the oldest EVAH.I'm rather torn about this book.
The other half of the time, she sounds like a 40 year old woman, coaching someone who is ONLY FOUR YEARS YOUNGER THAN HER and calling him "kiddo".2.
Without a doubt, better than the first two.
I really like Jean-Claud.
He is the reason I am reading these books.
I have never wanted a bad guy to get the girl before, it's fun.
I'm beginning to wonder if Jean-Claud deserves better.The swearing is excessive and redundant.
And I realize that in a series you have to make each book a stand alone and therefore have to explain the same thing several times.
There are literally paragraphs that are cut and pasted into each book.
Would it be too much to ask for at least new wording....
a new angle on the info??
“I could have made this pleasant, but now I think I want you to hurt. Look into my eyes, mortal, and despair.”  - Alejandro  Oooh, bad guys coming at Anita from all sides. It was action packed, complicated, and I loved it!This is our first introduction to Richard, gorgeous pain in the ass. You get the taste of all the passionate battles to come between them. Here are some of my castings:
The Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter series is outstanding!The first two books in this series, Guilty Pleasures and The Laughing Corpse are amazing pieces of work.This book declares no less awesomeness.
His charming smile and human body draws Anita into a chance to live a normal life.
Unfortunately, she is was deceived by the very monsters she avoided.Instead of trusting her instincts, Anita tip toes across the lines she carefully placed in life.
But could she love him?Thrilling battles ending in death and blood shed, Anita chooses which side of monsters to fight beside.
For all the Anita Blake books - I started this series with my then friend, Meredith - she actually got me hooked that fateful summer of 2000 when I was living on her wooden floor in Brooklyn.
We were both unemployed and bored and got hooked into this series.
The other thing I find annoying is that Anita likes to pick fights for no reason and seems to have the little dog syndrome - always barking up at the big guns.
But then I got annoyed and moved on to other authors who still work with their editors!!!
I’m still enjoying the Anita Blake series, although I have to tell you, Anita does not seem like a 24 year old character to me.
I think she would be much more believable as someone in her late 30’s or early 40’s considering how jaded she seems to be and how experienced she thinks she is.
It seems like she mentions the shoes by name at least once per chapter.
Working two full time jobs will wear you out2.
Training new employees is twice as much work as it should be6.
Honestly, she mentions it every time she sees him.
I say eventually cause even though I thought this was a central theme of the books, I've read 2 and a half of them and there have been nary a creature-of-the-night and vampire hunter smoochie.
There was one, but it was one of those contrived "fake kiss so the cops think we're just a couple, but ooo, did you feel the attraction anyway" snogs.And I am over both the Sweet Valley Syndrome* and the Too Cool for School Because I Am NOT GIRLY, Dammit themes.
Yeah, yeah, Anita, you had to go buy a dress to sneak into the vampire freak party because you are Not Girly and therefore did not own a black dress.
things are started to heat up...drama here i come!!
Okay, we get it, you are almost a man in a woman's body.
Speaking of bad guys, how is it that no matter how much trouble she's in, she always find someway to get out, whether she's shot, stabbed, bleeding to death, broken arm, ten vampires coming at her at once and yet somehow she survives and manages to make sarcastic comments along the way.
We all know you really do like the vampire, and the guy hasn't done anything that's so bad to her that she has to be so bitchy to him all the time.
Maybe it's a case of reading too many in the series so close together but I am so done with the love/hate thing Anita has with Jean-Claude and her supposed badass attitude.
Maybe others like that kind of psychological baggage but it's not for me.
If Anita truly hated Jean-Claude that much then why does she keep going back when she needs his talents and then hates him for it.
It's like there should be some history between them that has fostered Anita's hostility towards Jean-Claude but I'm tired of waiting for it to come out if it ever does.
Anita Blake will have to decide who she is loyal to in this action packed, fast paced novel.I reread this book, and while I remembered quite a few of the plot points, I still enjoyed the book.
Anita Blake is still a kick butt necromancer who happens to execute vampires along with helping the police regional preternatural crimes unit.
Richard makes numerous comments about her line of work and how it is unsafe and I feel as a character Anita would have acted differently than she does and would not have put up with it.Other than that this book was a fun reread and I enjoyed being back in this world.
He also wants to know who the vampire master of the city is.Anita is aware that she and Jean-Claude are both lusting for each other, but she tries not to get that lust get in the way - I have to say that I admire her resistance, she isn't even tempted with immortality or super strength, which she can have, if she only allows Jean-Claude to give two more marks to complete the human-slave/vampire master bond.Reasons why I didn't like Circus of the Damned as much as the two last books:- less action-packed;- a lot of characters getting on my nerves.I'm still really intrigued by Edward, I was happy to see him again, even if the circumstances weren't the best, but hey, we're talking about Edward right?
Ve sonunda lanetliler sirki bitti,öncelikle çok kaliteli bir kitaptı,gerek dialoglardan gerek betimlemelerden usluptan kolayca anlaşılıyor zaten...
İki kitaptır sadece çok sevildiği için bir şans daha verdiğimden okuyordum ama bu kitaptan sonra 4.yü büyük bir heycanla alacğım.Bir şeyi söylemeden geçemem anita hayran kalınacak bir karakterdi,ama bazen o inadı insanı çileden çıkaracak noktaya ulaşabiliyordu.
Hamilton'ın tarzı hemen alışılamasada alışnca ciddi bir bağımlılık oluşturabiliyor...Not: anita'ya çok acıdığm bir nokta var zavallı kz kitap boyunca bir türlü uyuyamadı :D
I don't have much to say about this one with the exception I believe this was the moment that I started to fall in love with that Frenchman. I have to say that I love the visual that LKH brings in this book. I love every part of him. I can not wait for the two of them to come together.so here since I do not have an official review for you have some saucy men images.. I am honestly curious what other people think their male characters would look like?
I've read 4 books in this series, and I enjoy the entertainment value of them. They are just fun! I love Jean-Claude. The narrator does a great job on his voice, as well as with the other characters. I always love a good narrator. I also like the MC, Anita. She is, for the most part, humorous. Sometimes the dialog feels forced and causes some eye rolling, but for the most part it keeps me interested. As long as I can say that and mean it, I'll keep reading more in this series.
So far this book is the best in the series. I am only on book 4. They keep getting better. The ending was dramatic and had me immediately reaching for book 4 (Lunatic Cafe).
I don't like Richard the bitch. He annoys me greatly.I don't like my "supposed-alpha-wolfman" acting like a pussy whipped idiot. Jean Claude all the fucking way.
The police want Anita to confirm that a gruesome murder was carried out by a rogue vampire so that they can get an order of execution, and she turns to Jean Claude for more information.While all this is going on, she also has to deal with a very old and powerful vampire, Alejandro, who wants to take her as his human servant.
His offer to kill Jean Claude so that Anita will be free of him genuinely tempts her, if not for very long.It may sound like too much is going on for just one book, but the complex and interwoven plot is handled excellently, and the book never feels cramped, or overly full.This book gives the very distinct impression that Laurell K.
Now this book, this probably is my second best in the series.
The Richard we meet in this book has nothing to do with the whinny, cruel, jealous SOB he becomes later on.
LKH knows how to write the "bad" ones.
Also the fact that she usually has more than one bad guy around gives the books more to keep your attention.Larry is also first introduced in this book.
He gives the book something fresh and different from all the jaded "monsters".JC is at his worst.
You have to give it to LKH, she knows how to write a book.
The most powerful act he does is stand next to sunlight.
He is the most powerful vampire on earth and he's forced to live as a nomad?
It isn't until later books that we learn how really powerful he is.
It doesn't have the same effect that way.Second, if any of the band of vampires had their own novel, it might be decent.
(In fact, novels 10-14 really could have used them.) I liked Alejandro and the child vampire is creepy - especially when acting as a decoy.
But I felt as if Anita was being pulled from one to another with none of them being developed.
I enjoyed the first two books in the series but this one didn't work for me.
I'm deducting a full star from my rating because Jean-Claude sucks (you SUCK Jean-Claude).
He dresses like a reject from "Purple Rain" and seems to need to attend a few seminars on the nature of consent and yet Anita thinks she might love him a little.
Their "relationship" has always been the weakest part of the three books I've read so far (and yes, I know the author switches from UF to erotica a few more books down the line so I guess I'm in for more disappointment.) Richard seems interesting though.
This one was actually pretty good. While reading this, I was thinking, 3 books in and the series is really good. I like that Anita is flawed but she has personality and some character development. Even the tension between her and Jean Claude I kind of like.Which makes me nervous, since I hear the rest of the series isn't as good as the first couple of books in. For now, I'll try to keep up with some of the books in the series. Maybe I'll read the other books as well. Not sure...keyword maybe.
Re-read 2018This is the third book in the series, this one starts the relationship/s that will carry on in various ways throughout the rest of the series. I can't say much due to spoilers, but I will mention that Anita's luck or lack thereof is still going strong. The re-read started due to the fact that I'm behind on the series, and need a refresher to catch up prior to the new book being released this summer.
Okay, I made it to book 3. Why? I'm not sure. It's like eating potato chips. I don't really like them, but the bag is there so I keep on eating them. . . .This is so over-the-top and silly. But I kept on turning the pages. Had to see just who she was going to blow away with her gun(s) or stab with her knives.One small woman, all those ancient vampires. And no one can kill this woman? Really?Sigh. Against my better judgement, on to book 4. . . .I'm opening another bag.
This one was a little bit better than the previous ones. Anita Blake has started dating a man name Richard Zeeman (who is a werewolf) whom she met in a very strange circumstance. There is another battle going on between the master vampires and etc etc. She introduces Lamia an Egyptian half woman -half snake creature. Blah blah blah....Read it if you want. Three stars.
A plot that makes my stomach clench with suspense check3.
Mythical creatures that don't sparkle check << Full disclosure: That's kind of a cheap shot seeing as I actually like Twilight4.
Romantic elements that don't overpower the storyline check5.
A suitably macabre title checkReally, do you need to be convinced further?I am loving the Anita Blake series.
It is such a welcome relief to be entertained at all times while reading a book.
Like, holy Indiana Jones (read it and you will see what I mean)And the dialogue is full of witty banter, often infused with a healthy dose of sarcasm.
