https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4134071-hunted
Good Grief, how many boyfriends does one girl need? It's starting to get a little ludicrous.
Maybe I'm just not in my normal-teenage-girl state of mid @ the moement but I did not like this book.
And it seemed like they were trying WAY TOO HARD to get the characters to sound like "normal teenagers".
I know you're supposed to fit a lot of info in a little space but it seemed like they were going through like 3 different personality changes while they talked for one paragraph.And what was with the Kalona "You're my A-ya..my love!" thing?
HUNTED is very much a "middle" book in the House of Night Series, a bridge between the first and second halves of Zoey's story.
Zoey will need to use all her power and lean on her friends if she means to defeat Kalona.
For all of HUNTED, Zoey and company are between rocks and hard places, usually a wall or a creature of some sort.The trouble that came to light in UNTAMED comes to a peak in HUNTED, although there can be no doubt that the next four books are needed to finish the story.
For instance, words (damn it, write a dictionary if you want to explain words), the storyline (over and over and over and over....), how hot everyone is or at least how perfect and then there's the love triangles.This is one of the main things that takes away from the interesting story and just turns it into being about boys and the character being a whingy, whimpy idiot.
Not that I'm really annoyed with the story, it's the authors that have done my head in so I'll be reading the next one because I want to know what happens with the bigger picture and to see if this is only a transition novel.
I'll admit, I actually wasn't really looking forward to this book that much, just because I felt that Untamed was quite a bit of a letdown, both story-wise and writing-wise.
She's been blessed with these powers that nobody else has, she's destined for great things, she makes stupid mistakes and faces pretty much no consequences for them, and she's definitely got the Anita Blake factor going for her--everybody wants to sleep with her.
The only males who don't want to sleep with Zoey are the gay ones.Speaking of gay, I don't really know why, but Cast and Cast seem to think that they have to make Damien and Jack really, really gay.
I enjoy the House of Night series but the repetitiveness is starting to get really annoying.Yes we know Jack and Damien are gay. Yes we know Shaunee and Erin are "twins",one black and the other white.Yes we know Aphrodite is a bitch and that Stevie Ray is a country girl.We DON'T need to be reminded of it every other page of every freaking book.Not to mention i fear that Zoey is turning into a giant ho cake with ho icing. And all the men she thinks she wants/loves are little ho sprinkles on top.
To see full review and to vote on whether or not I continue my quest to read this series click here.Sometimes I don't even know why I bother.I am a goal oriented person.
They serve no purpose just like most of those characters they forced upon us in the second season of Young Justice just to sell toys and look what happened to that show...seriously, Lagoon Boy and Blue Beetle (okay, I got Blue's role, but I never liked him.
Honestly, the only thing Zoey talks about other than brown pop is her pathetic love life.
Reviewed by LadyJay for TeensReadToo.comZoey Redbird is back in the fifth installment of the HOUSE OF NIGHT series.
Neferet, current High Priestess at the House of Night, has declared war on all human beings.
She and her friends will be forced to use their abilities to help rid the world of Kalona once again, and sabotage Neferet's master plan.
By calling the five elements, Zoey, Shaunee, Erin, Stevie Rae, and Damien are declaring a war of their own - to stop Neferet and Kalona, no matter the cost.
Not only does she need to save the world, Zoey needs to solve some major vampyre/human boy drama.
But when the main character of a book annoys you so much you can hardly stand turning the page, something's got to give.
I was happy when it seemed that Zoey was happily dating Erik (who is pretty irritating anyway, but whatever, it's not my fictional life) in this book.
Then Heath pops back up again.It's not only the fact that every single guy character in this series (apart from the painfully stereotypical gay friends) seems to fall instantly in love with Zoey that annoys me.
Heath's been following her around for four books now.
She calls her that like three fucking times in the course of three pages.I was still trying to decide whether my negative reaction to Venus was because she was (obviously) a bitch, because she had been skulking around the tunnels with Erik, or because I had a bad feeling about the red fledglings in general when she spoke up.[...] So maybe my alarm system was misfiring simply because Venus was a hateful bitch, and not because she and the rest of them were evil incarnate.[...] “So do you want to use the facilities or not?” Venus said.
Like why do each of the books only cover a ~48 hr time period?!
Just have her end up with Stark already and let's get onto other things.I also find some of the language annoying (i.e. Zoey tries not to swear, and so says things like "Bullpoopie" which is a word that should have never been created, ever, ever, ever.) This is especially weird since other characters like Aphrodite in the book totally drop the f-bomb, so it's not the like the authors are trying to appeal only to a younger audience.
It's not that I want all swearing all the time, it's just that some of the psuedo-swears just make my stomach turn.I guess my overall criticism of this series is that each book is like a 1 hour installment of a TV show.
Like that the twins aren't really twins, Damian & jack are gay, all about Zoey & her exploits, Zoey and her boy troubles, how bad the big baddie nerfret is, how hot people are, how her & stark had a connection..., the list is fucking endless.
& you know, despite what you thing, Casts, most people don't start series in the fifth fucking book.
I guess Erik the "honestly a good guy " wasnt working, so they brought in Stark as a "bad boy" replacement.
These two are morons & Zoey has no right doing all this crap, like kissing him and sleeping in bed with stark when she's still with Erik.
The main character, while protesting every page that she really is a good and virtuous girl, has managed to sleep with her teacher, hook up with an ex-boyfriend, hook up with another ex and then hook up with a guy who is half rapist, half "misunderstood." You can tell the authors are heading in the direction that becuause this story is make believe, it's okay for the main character to have a "consort" and a "mate" because she is a vampire.
There is a gay character, and the authors mention he is gay at least every page if not more.

It’s one bizarre distraction which was really all about Stark and the clumsy relationship and terrible love dodecahedron (more on that later).The one attempt at a plot line is the prophecy of how to get rid of Kaloma the big bad, brought by Kramisha, the convenient source for more Nyx “wisdom”.
Let’s be clear, Nyx isn’t an aloof god – she constantly gives Zoey psychic feelings, she constantly sends them visions and prophecies, she even appeared last book to have a 10 minute conversation with Zoey and Aphrodite.
The authors are clearly trying very hard to sound like ''teenagers'' and just ending up sounding completely ridiculous.
She spends half the book ranting about how ''controlling'' and ''possessive'' Erik is, when all he did was ask her to not go outside (where evil monsters are literally waiting to kill her) with the ex-boyfriend that she's gone back to so many times I've lost count.
Yet Zoey tells us these things every time they appear in the story.
Newsflash, Zoey: Carnage is not a big complicated word.I'm giving the book three stars because of Aphrodite...
I really wish all the characters would stop giving Aphrodite a hard time.
The story starts right where it left off in the last book with Zoey and the gang in the underground tunnels with the red fledgings.
What happens is not something I expected, her ex-human boyfriend shows up and that's when it gets ugly.
The one person who gets on my nerves here is her ex-human ex-imprinted imprinted again boyfriend.
At the end of this book Zoey finds herself wrapped up with 3 guys again and not sure what she wants to do!
I hope the next book has a little bit more story into the men in her life!
Hunted was OK, but I didn't have high hopes since I was disappointed with Untamed.
I was very annoyed with the dialogue in the beginning of the book.
I know it's a YA book, but it seemed so juvenile to me.
Do teenagers really talk this way?
IMO, this was a filler book.
There was not much going on through most of the story.
The ending was as expected, but it was sort of a let-down.
I wanted more action, I guess.
I know the thing that bothers me the most is all of Zoey's boyfriends.
To the Casts: I really enjoy this series, but this was a bit much. Too much "boy issue", we get it she always has to deal with multiple attachments. Get back into the actually intriguing mythology you have developed. This story was only about 2 days, best I can tell, and again we are left on the edge. Button it up please!

And this is where I gave up on this series. I just couldn't connect with the characters.
"Hunted" is one of those books I was majorly looking forward to.
The story goes in circles a bit , and once again we find ourselves in a familiar love triangle, or maybe even square.
This whole book is more of filler than anything else but it leaves you hanging where I KNOW I'll be getting the rest of the series ASAP!There's some crazy new character developments.
I just want to get to the next book and see what happens with Zoey and her Nerd Herd.I give this book a 80/100 B-Characters-19Plot- 15Writing-15Originality-16Re-Readability- 15
Normal teenagers swear.
"Bull poopie" is not appropriate language if you want your older audience to take the characters seriously.
I don't care how many men are pointlessly in love with Zoey - just freaking decide on one already!
Oh, and why do all the characters have to be needlessly hot?
I don't care if vampirism makes you look hot - surely to other vampires you'd just look normal.
And I swear that only happened so Stevie-Ray (LOL who decided that was a good name?!
They didnt.The characters?
And can I just point out, the romance between bird-guy and Stevie-Ray?
In this latest book, Hunted, the main character Zoey, goes in even deeper than ever before. The intrigue, romance, adventure and spiritual awakening are more intense. Even the bad characters draw you in and make you want to believe in them and often it's difficult to find the fine lines between the good and evil. Really enjoyed this one.
Re read and still loving the Nerd Herd!!
I will start by saying that Zoey's love-life resembles the mythological Hydra. Kill one boyfriend, and two more will grow back in his place.This was probably the slowest-paced of all the books. The first 100 or so pages were all Zoey feeling like Erik was being 'possessive' even though they had just gotten back together and she was sending him mixed signals, by also wanting to spend alone time with Heath. Erik did not take this lightly, however.  "I didn't yell. I didn't scream and smack him lik
Kill one boyfriend, and two more will grow back in his place.This was probably the slowest-paced of all the books.
The first 100 or so pages were all Zoey feeling like Erik was being 'possessive' even though they had just gotten back together and she was sending him mixed signals, by also wanting to spend alone time with Heath.
I didn't scream and smack him like I really wanted to.
A Poet Laureate do have to look her best," Kramisha said primly, finishing up with a couplet.
Okay.That being said, I didn't dislike this book.
With the added fact that the use of coarse language gave some of the characters a witty demeanour made it a tad bit more enjoyable.
The downside to the novel was that I found the main character (as mentioned before which is Zoey) to be a whiny and bitchy.
With all this came the added fact that she was having to find a way to put a stop to an immortal being who kept thinking that she was the Cherokee version of A-ya.
The downside to this novel was a lot of repeating of character introductions and repetition of a few Cherokee words that had been mentioned in previous novels.
Zoey ve arkadaşları. Onlara yeni katılan dostlar çok ilginizi çekecek.
Sadly the first 2/3's of the story are spent in the tunnels with not a whole lot happening.
And because Zoey wouldn't have enough to whine about without being involved in a love triangle, Stark is drug into the picture too.
This section was pretty good and dealt with Zoey and friends going back to the House of Night and facing Neferet and Kalona.This has been a very inconsistent series for me.
There are so many interesting things that could be happening with these characters and this world; it seems though that the majority of page space islent to Zoey so she can whine about relationship troubles.
The first five book seems to be the consolidation of the first quest of Zoey in defeating evil; and the following books will reveal more enemies and wars.
Despite of being at the peek of the battle between good and evil, Zoey manages to maintain the humor as she busies herself with her boyfriend agendas.
I have a strong feeling that Stark character will long accompany Zoey in this series.
Evil versus good, whoever wins, we know that it's not yet the end.
I bet this series has a lot of surprises to come.
