https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148635.Dancing_Lessons_for_the_Advanced_in_Age
A feeling of rebellious delight comes upon me on encountering souls that purposely bleat or act comic in the worldly eyes just so they can enrage every cell of their innards and rack every remnant to life, launching them as missiles, oozing precision and inflicting damage out of every inked word onto a world reeling under war, oppression, anarchy, discrimination and injustice.
The noisy clatter of the Perko typewriter that Hrabal loved listening to as his poured his heart out resounded in the divine melodies of Jirka’s world.
Egon Bondy was one of the dearest pal of Bohumil, a free-thinker, a poet who questioned every conservative regulation propelled amongst the societal more, Hrabal portraying his friend writes, 
Jirka's narratives not only bring surreal grandeur to his life but make the reader feel alive and sense the utmost sentiment of belonging in a place where beauty was discovered everywhere.

It is a telling of stories, most of them bawdy.
One of Hrabel’s favourite occupations was telling tales in his local inn; the book reads like that as well.
There is humour in the tale, but it is repetitive.
A tale from times past (sometimes a fragment) that is disassociated from what came before or after.
I think whether you enjoy this book depends on how you feel about the narrator.
The question is do you want to spend time listening to some old bloke telling you about the amorous adventures of his youth.
Mother of God, isn't life breathtakingly beautiful.Joel bought me this book several years ago.
It appeared so disjointed that I never truly considered it.
Today the world was revealed as damp and overcast; reconciling myself to those conditions, Manchester United lost to City 6-1 and I slumped, to be polite.
Reaching out, I heartily stumbled upstairs to scan our shelves and returned with Dancing Lessons for the Advanced in Age, coincidentally just as my wife was browsing reviews of such on this wicked site.
I read the book in a pair of sittings and while it isn't explosive, it is a meandering monologue for the ages.
Хубава, експериментална книга. Храбал си играе небрежно с фразата и я премоделира в нетрадиционни форми за удоволствие. Едно изречение, разположено на 100 страници звучи някак плашещо, а всъщност се изнизва пред очите плавно и неусетно. Майсторът си е майстор, но самите случки и размисли, вплетени в изречението, не ме грабнаха чак толкова.
I libri di Hrabal: Una solitudine troppo rumorosa, Treni strettamente sorvegliati, Ho servito il re d’Inghilterra… e poi c’è Lezioni di ballo per anziani e progrediti, un libro a parte di uno scrittore a parte.
Il protagonista, si diceva, è un settantenne, ex-calzolaio, ex-maltatore, ex soldato “dell’esercito più bello del mondo”, un tipo tronfio e dall’ego strabordante, un “adoratore del rinascimento europeo” che racconta le sue gesta con l’intento di mostrare come sia risultato “il vincitore” in ognuna delle sue imprese.L’Austria Felix è la sua Arcadia, il mondo perduto al confronto del quale il presente è un piano inclinato verso una decadenza irreversibile; il punto di vista è quello della gente comune, che sogna in grande ma poi guarda alle piccole cose.
Ако си представим, че това изречение-книга е част от една недописана, голяма и хипотетична книга, то няма как да представлява точно книжле, нали?
И тук, понеже книгата е едно изречение по някое време се усещаш, че си се набрал като балон пред пукване ( всъщност се спуквах от смях) и се налага да се подсещаш за почивка.Сега малко ще ви шашна като ви кажа, че (за мен, разбира се) генът на това книжле е същия като от "Животът пред теб" на Гари.
Good-natured, a little randy, very much free-associative, a waltz of clauses strung together, period
Други техни хора не са ми известни, но и не търсих повече информация (за някои има в бележките под линия).За пореден път не знаех – на Храбал ли да се възхищавам повече, на преводача ли (не че това са две отделни неща).
Точно както е казано в „Преведе от…“ : „За мен преводът е нещо много отговорно, едно голямо предизвикателство, защото трябва да опознаеш личността, да се вмъкнеш в кожата на автора и да го преведеш така, че да звучи на български, но в същото време и да запазиш неговия стил.“ (Елисавета Кузманова).Разбира се за мен „Обслужвал съм английския крал“ е недостижима – мощна стрела, изстреляна към висините!
Opomenuli su me za glasno smejanje u biblioteci :D'To je bilo zbog toga što je tada svako hteo da izgleda kao kompozitor ili pesnik, danas je sve to naopačke, svaki pisac hoće da na fotografiji izgleda kao dripac'
Las jergas, más que la lengua coloquial, tienen un interés en el idioma académico, puesto que se basan en saltarse las reglas establecidas mediante la creatividad, buscando un efecto de sorpresa y singularidad, para cogerte desprevenido.[…]”Su defensa a ultranza de la jerga idiomática como elemento desestabilizador del orden establecido le ayuda a desplazar la figura de un héroe atípico, como es en este caso el insolente, tierno, divertido anciano que nos cuenta las típicas batallas de los abuelos.
Qué divertido y entrañable acaba resultando este anciano y qué bien lo cuenta el autorhttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
The whole book is one sentence. And even then it doesn't end with a period.

this may not be for everyone, its sort of like that old man at the country store, who starts to tell a story, and 3 hours later, he's STILL telling it, with asides, genealogies, history lessons, lies, partial lies, whole truths, and maybe even a conclusion. its funny, some of the reviewers on goodreads say its like talking to a drunk person, but i assure, its just old age. hahaha
I think my biggest problem with this book was how strongly it was centered around Czechoslovakian geography and pop culture; and as someone with very little information on the above mentioned subjects I hardly understood the numerous references that appeared at least once a page. I enjoyed the little idiosyncrasies, but it just didn't do it for me.
Another gem from Hrabal. In one long sentence, Hrabal describes all the lunacy of the Austro-Hungarian Empire's last days, the narrator fondness of beauties, the hilarious descriptions of the army, the life in the breweries...
I've been re-reading a lot of Raymond Chandler; in love with noir once again; confirming my younger self's high estimation of his books.But after three Chandlers in a row, I needed a break.
I know his books are as fast as Chandler and as smart.
So I picked up one I've never read.This book.And it IS fast and it IS smart.
And this is a book about talking, not about reading.
And if you find him, like I did, both lovable and insufferable, you'll vacillate, like I did, between laughing and quickly reading to see what this brilliant liar will say next, and slapping the book shut just so the insecure windbag will shut the fuck up.
A boozy, bawdy, blasphemous blowhard (he'll affront more than one of your sensibilities), Bohumil Hrabal's old Uncle Pepin blathers on ("palaver" is Hrabal's technical term) about his salad days amidst the crumbling Austro-Hungarian Empire. The beloved uncle appears elsewhere in Hrabal's ouevre but this is Pepin's solo performance, a bravura performance, hysterical and sad. "It's interesting how young poets think of death while old fogies think of girls."
A guy rambles for 100 pages
Shodou okolností mi na stejné hromadě leží ještě nepřečtený Odysseus od Joyce (s legendárním snem popsaným na 40 stranách v jedné větě).
Taneční hodiny pro starší a pokročilé jsou náročné, jelikož vyžadují pozornost čtenáře.
Ne že by příběh byl složitý, protože vlastně žádný neexistuje, ale čtenář se může dostat do jakéhosi hltání slov bez pochycení jejich významu.
Stavbu klasické novely narušuje absence teček.
Celý monolog strýce Pepina Bohumil Hrabal napsal v jedné dlouhé větě.
Než jsem se začetla, dalo mi to takových 10 stran, ale pak jsem si to vychutnávala.

"... la tragedia regna sovrana nel mondo e i romanzieri hanno sempre di che scrivere ..." (pp. 20, 21)"... un libro che si rispetti non serve per far sì che il lettore riesce a prendere sonno meglio, ma perché lui se ne salti giù dal letto e ancora con i mutandoni addosso se ne corra in tutta fretta a spaccare il grugno allo scrittore ..." (p. 28)
бях на двайсет и една, имах толкова енергия, че можех да осветявам цяла седмица Прага с нея.........

I wasn’t too impressed with this book by Hrabal and obviously too loud a solitude is way way better in my opinion. The book is about a cobbler who seems to seduce many different women and Hrabal tells tales of his exploits in a very humorous way at times but that was about it for me. Again maybe parts of it were lost in translation but I couldn’t engage with this short c.100 page book. In many ways it reminded me of the unbearable lightness of being but without the philosophy attached. Short enough to warrant a quick skim through.
Czech chatterbox and cathouse lothario breathlessly reminisces about his mishaps with young mistresses, music, his military service, and just about anything else he can think of in a novella that reads rather like rollerskating down a flight of stairs.
Oh, those wonderful small Czech stories :)
Unreadable. Funny for a few pages, then endless repetition. Did not finish the book/sentence.
