https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89165.J_is_for_Judgment
"J" is for Jaffe: Wendell Jaffe, dead these past five years.
Or so it seemed until his former insurance agent spotted him in the bar of a dusty little resort halfway between Cabo San Lucas and La Paz.Kinsey Millhone is on the trail of this Jaffe fellow.
Each book has its own flavor.
I didn't give the book 5 stars because of some dead passages where attempts to drum up suspense were lost on me.
This is a bemusing direction, and maybe it's bound to develop into a feature in the future books?
The book is fine.
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to J is for Judgment, the 10th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1993 by Sue Grafton. As I read the book details of this one, I vivdly recalled the main character, Wendall Jaffe, and Kinsey's pursuit of this case. Wendall supposedly died 5 years ago, and his wife collected major bucks from his insurance policy. But when he's spotted alive not all that far away, Kinsey takes the case. And when she gets into it, her life starts to explode. She
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars to J is for Judgment, the 10th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1993 by Sue Grafton.
As I read the book details of this one, I vivdly recalled the main character, Wendall Jaffe, and Kinsey's pursuit of this case.
But when he's spotted alive not all that far away, Kinsey takes the case.
She's such an amazing character to keep reading about.
Always humorous, but not in a laugh-out-loud-non-stop way.
There's more going on that Kinsey realizes, and I was glad to keep reading about it.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
A fun, entertaining read but for me not one of her best. I am still debating whether I like Kinsey or not but I will say she certainly has no shame!The story in this one was good and I totally missed on who the murderer was going to be. There is a great need to suspend belief while reading though because many of the events are unrealistic. Anyway - good entertainment when you need a light read!
Kinsey is surprised to be hired once again by California Fidelity.
They’ve just paid out a claim on Wendell Jaffe’s life insurance five years after his supposed dead at sea only to hear he’s been spotted down in Mexico.
Kinsey locates Jaffe only to have him vanish again.
Can she prove he is still alive?This is another fantastic mystery.
The characters are strong and help pull us in.
The story itself has plenty of twists and turns before we reach the climax.
Kinsey also stumbles on a surprise in her personal life.
Kinsey Millhone is one of my favourite fictional detectives.
I read several books in Sue Grafton's 'Alphabet' series some years ago, and loved them.
It was a pleasure to reacquaint myself with Kinsey this time, with the letter J, which I had not read previously.As always, Kinsey is an endearing mixture of gauche and genius, as she darts around, following leads and munching on junk food.
Kinsey has a healthy sense of self-mockery, and her internal monologue is often hilarious.
As always, she manages to muddle her way through to the denouement despite various set-backs and false leads.4 ★s
It’s also not due to our heroine Kinsey Millhone becoming an even more interesting character, even though I find myself identifying with her personality and actions more than ever before.This is the first novel in the series that I recall where Kinsey is not out to solve a murder (although I could be mistaken in that).
Enjoyed it a lot and plan to continue at my present rate of reading 4 of these each year in order to finish up at just about the same time the last book (“Z”) is published.
Another great read. More personal facts revealed about the main character. As usual, this novel kept me guessing to the last page.
Given that most of them have some past experience with Wendell Jaffe the reasons for the actions a little more understandable.
The best part of this book was all the insight we gained into how Kinsey thinks and her moral code.
She really wanted to know the truth about Wendell Jaffe and couldn’t understand why everyone else was happy with accepting what appeared on the surface.
The one big moment this book gave us and it gave it to us big time was the information on Kinsey’s family.
I will just say that if the book had spent more time on that I would have probably rated it higher.
On to K!On a side note, the one thing that REALLY bothers me in this series that I didn’t notice the first time around (which was almost 20 years ago, so please forgive the memory lapse) is the constant body shaming.
Kinsey describes Vera, her closest thing to a best friend, as a “big woman” then follows it up with the description of her being 5’10 and 140 lbs.
IN WHAT UNIVERSE IS THIS A “BIG WOMAN”?
I also have to remember this was written beginning in the 80s - this particular installment in 1992, and times were different then.
Well, after reading ten of them, I'm reasonably certain that Sue Grafton does not know how to write a bad book. I feel a bit repetitive, but J is for Judgment is terrific. Well written, strong characters, emotional roller coasters, suspense and mystery. Such a great detective series. Kinsey is fantastic, and I love seeing her adapt and grow. I also love the lack of technology and how she always makes it work for her.
I'm a big fan of this series, and "J" didn't disappoint. PI Kinsey Millhone is a good character, and this story about a Ponzi Scheme crook who faked his death and then suddenly reappeared was engaging and perfect for the beach, which is where I was while reading it.
And for three, is he going to get caught?The only thing that doesn’t thrill me about these books is that there are always new characters and it can sometimes be hard to keep track of who is who and how they are related to the story.
I couldn’t help but think this was purposely put into the same book where a long lost family member “rises from the dead.” When she wasn’t at work, we got to see a new Kinsey that we are not used to- a somewhat vulnerable Kinsey.
Other than the regular characters, we met Jaffe, his new wife, his “widow”, and his sons.
3.5 StarsPretty good, drama-filled story; with Kinsey being on the slightly bitchy side.
I know her job is to get at the truth; but she is NOT a cop.
Her self-righteousness, and her being hell-bent on getting at the truth irked me something fierce.
She has no right going into other peoples lives.
No one has to tell her a damn thing.
She is persistent to the point of bullying.
People aren't able to grieve, because she is right there saying, "Hey, give me what I want!"I still love her spunkiness; but she bugged me.
Putting this series to bed for a month or so...
in which kinsey visits mexico on the lookout for wendell jaffe, a ponzi schemer who staged his own suicide before leaving the country.the thing that struck me yet again is that, for a self-alleged misanthrope, kinsey is really good at getting people to talk to her and trust her.
she's constantly showing up unannounced at people's homes demanding information and they all invite her in for coffee and a chat, and allow her to come back even after she pisses them off.
This is the first book in the series I gave a 5 star rating too because it was that good. I love that Kinsey stuck it to her old employer and office provider and that she learns some things about herself in the process.The scene where she sneaks into the hotel room of a suspect is one of the best in the series and I loved the book from beginning to end. I can't believe how good this series is.
I'm partial to this series because I went to school near Santa Barbara and lived in San Luis Obispo, CA for five years. The author does a fair job of describing costal living while weaving murder and intrigue along the way. The main character is whimsical and I enjoy her relationships as they are unconventional and unpredictable.
Kinsey Millhone works a case involving insurance fraud...
a death benefit has been paid in a case where the deceased has recently been spotted and was clearly not dead.
The supposedly deceased man was a con artist, and seemed to have a lot to run from when his mysterious death occurred.
The 10th book in the Kinsey Millhone mystery series.
Kinsey is back and working a case with her usual cleaver and witty ways.
This book introduced more of Kinsey's past, which was an interesting side story, and I'm curious to see where it goes.I listened to an audio version of this book.
I've been getting this series all over the place; physical library, Audible, e-library audio, and consignment stores! Every format. I liked this one. Wendell Jaffe is dead. Or is he? I wasn't sure where this was going for awhile. There were a lot of potential suspects even though there wasn't a murder. Who was helping Wendell? I liked the ending, a bit more of a mystery.
It could be telling me that I need to find more current things to read, but I remember 1993 just fine so this book did not feel old to me.
It is more like they have been my backup books when I'm needing something that I know is going to be solidly written and interesting.In this case, I am knee deep in my summer reading marathon in which I feel I need to catch up on a bit of some of my more difficult reads in my to-be-read pile.
I know that the Kinsey Millhone series hardly qualifies as difficult reading.
Kinsey is hired by the insurance company that had let her go just months before to track down a lead on a man who was legally ruled dead but could actually be alive in Mexico.
But the entire case is turned upside down with someone shooting at Kinsey while she is transporting the not-so-dead man and he disappears again.
And she does get a confession in the end, but to me it didn't adequately explain the car problems that lead to the shooting.
All of Grafton's books are starting to blend together.
This one didn't do much for me, and I will most likely forget most of the plot by tomorrow.
The lull in the middle was rough to get through where she was grasping at straws trying to move forward in the case.
I didn't like the cliffhanger at the end- but maybe she'll come back to it in a later novel?
Or that person may come back?
It seems to me that Kinsey's character was completely unnecessary in the story.
Was it smart for Grafton to introduce Kinsey's extended family?
It wasn't fast-paced or racy like the usual whodunits.
This is the first Sue Grafton book i've read.
It doesn't matter though as it is like the crime shows on telly.
While there are threads of continuity in among the books, each one is a stand-alone story as well.
The story wasn't a typical locked-room mystery, and the plot evolved as we go along.
The real highlight of the book was the open-ended manner in which the story ended.
And yes, i did like the snippets of philosophy that were thrown about here and there.
I may read another Sue Grafton after all.
Another solid, solid outing from Grafton and Millhone. Standard boilerplate stuff to say on the mystery front, didn't blow me away, but was fully satisfying. The personal story is potentially great, will have to see how it develops over the next book or so, but I really liked the angry, careful, confused way that Kinsey's approaching this . . . seems honest. Moreso than is standard for this kind of story.It's reads like this that make me bound and determined to catch up on this series next year.
This episode in the Kinsey Millhone series was somewhat lackluster in comparison to the rest of the series. I enjoyed the story, but it just wasn't as exciting as I've come to expect from Sue Grafton. The mystery held promise (a man who faked his own death), but the ending was rather plain. Grafton tried to save the ending in the epilogue, but the ploy was very contrived. I did like learning about Kinsey's family story and that saved the book from a 2 star rating. Plus, since I read out of order, I know the series does improve!
Another fun and easy Kinsey Millhone mystery. Wendell Jaffe committed suicide 5 yrs earlier, but the insurance company still isn't convinced he is dead. This is the first time I'd heard the word "pseudocide". Kinsey explores the circumstances leading up to Wendell's pseudocide and the effect it had on his family. At the same time, she discovers, with mixed feelings, some family of her own. Good tale, lots of action, some more insight into Kinsey's brain. Now on to "K".
Started out a little slow, got better as it went on.
Kinsey Millhone, PI, is hired to chase down a lead on a guy who had disappeared and was presumed dead.
His wife had been paid the insurance money, but then someone spotted the supposed dead guy down in Mexico.
Kinsey catches a flight to Mexico, checks into the hotel he was seen at and starts surveillance.
She makes a darn nuisance of herself with everyone, why anyone talks to her and why she doesn't get kicked out of every house is a mystery to me.
My favorite part of the book is when Kinsey improvises when she is caught out on some guy's balcony at the hotel in Mexico.
Quick thinking Kinsey!
So I’ve been skipping ahead a lot and I finally regret it. A lot clearly happened in the books I skipped. I still love the series and specifically the audiobook narrator. Mary Peiffer, you are so good! It was exciting to learn that Kinsey has some family, but disappointing that it wasn’t resolved in this book. The ponzey scheme mystery was pretty good, but the stakes seemed way lower than other books. It was a fine addition to the series, but not the best.
I enjoyed this book.
This was delicious. I loved learning more about Kinsey's personal history, too.
