https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44171.The_Looking_Glass_War
On the contrary, he considered it unrealistic and romantic, what with its nearly omniscient intelligence agency, the agency's extraordinarily complex yet flawless plan, and the novel's melodramatic conclusion: the death of star-crossed lovers at the foot of the Berlin Wall.For this next book, le Carre chose to abstain from grand dramatic gestures and instead describe the intelligence service as he had experienced it in the '50's, filled with aging English Public School types hampered by nostalgia for the days of The War and Merrie Old England, holding a prejudiced view of everything not “British,” and harboring the self-delusion that after countless compromises and betrayals they still possessed honor and commanded respect.The photographic evidence of a missile placement in East Germany leads the foreign branch of military intelligence (“The Blackfriars Boys”), a ghost of its wartime self now reduced to gathering remote intelligence and conducting research, to once again--like in the good old days of The War—actually “put a man in,” that is, place a live agent on the ground for reconnaissance.
Have you ever wanted to be a spy?
I didn’t – not until I started reading John Le Carré’s George Smiley series this year.
I wanted to be the good guy who brought all the other ‘fighters’ (yes, I have an older brother) together in peace and harmony.
For the most part, though, his role seems to be mopping up the messes after the fact.Maybe I don’t really want to be a spy after all – but it is interesting and informative to read John Carré’s stories anyway.
Indeed, even today, decades after this world of ghosts and specters was delineated in modes and means far closer to the actual truth of things by such as le Carré, it is the preferred form for its treatment, whether on paper, television set, or cinematic screen: larger-than-life, physically perfect specimens perform acts of death-defying acrobatics and stunt-work while exhibiting a feral and unerring lethality, all in an effort to avert the apocalyptic outcomes of the fiendishly clever, logically precise, and temporally taut plots of whatever respective villainous mind has set out to assert their will upon the world they would rule.So it was that The Looking Glass War, this thin, unprepossessing book with its somewhat tacky, boxy red cover, struck me quite forcefully with the banality, the absurdity, the futility, and the morbidity that permeated nigh everything and everyone involved—with one centrally important exception—in its elegantly precise unwinding.
This is a spy’s reality and  The looking glass war fits into that trend of realistic spy novel perfectly.
John le Carré is depicturing a hopeless, grey world; reality in which man is just a pawn in the other’s game and the declarations and agreements are easily broken.
The looking glass war is devoid of unexpected twists and turns, daring chases, thrilling fight scenes.
Novel is bleakly dark and depressing, an atmosphere claustrophobic, additionaly enhanced by picture of ugly surroundings and gloomy weather.And after reading you need something much stronger than martini to soothe that overwhelming feeling of despair and anger.
A hard, bitter,relentlessly cynical and disturbingly realistic peek at the sordid workings of an Espionage network.
Le Carre begins in his customary languid style, setting the tone and mood before the plot begins to tighten almost imperceptibly; culminating in a claustrophobic and an almost schizophrenic climax that leaves you numb, stunned and pondering over the astonishing capacity of the human mind to weave webs around itself.
Le Carre admitted that this was his most realistic,nihilistic and hard hitting book and suggested that the stiflingly bleak tone may have been too much for even most hardened readers.
As the author states in the intro, this book is a cynical look at the intelligence/spy world and is almost a parody of LeCarre's first big hit, The Spy Who Came in From the Cold.With subtle (and a few not so subtle) hints of the ridiculous attempts by past-their prime and out of touch military intelligence officers to recover their relavancy and stage one last mission, the book is a slowly building tragedy.
We saw this when le Carré tackled the prep school system in A Murder of Quality, and this time the author tries to express his disgust with the disorganization and second-rate stature of the British Intelligence system.The Looking Glass War is divided into three primary sections: Taylor’s Run, Avery’s Run, and Leiser’s Run. Taylor’s Run and Leiser’s Run are each divided into three subsections: Prelude, Take-Off, and Homecoming.
He goes out of his way to show how much in love he is with the character he created.The other big takeaway from The Looking Glass War is one I’m not certain le Carré intended.
For me a difficult book to rate, on one hand I enjoyed it although I came to have a marked contempt for some of the major characters.
I felt the novel was a study in human nature and trying to hold on to the glory of past exploits.
A clandestine world made up of an old boys club who are happy to throw the lamb to the wolves .....all in the name of glory, I found this to be a bleak and quite dour story, not for the faint of heart.
These books are becoming an aquired taste.
Compared with its predecessor 'The Spy Who Came In from the Cold', 'The Looking Glass War' (George Smiley #4) was a relative flop, especially in Britain.
This time, cost what it will, I'll describe a Secret Service that is really not very good at all; that is eking out its wartime glory; that is feeding itself on Little England fantasies; is isolated, directionless, over-protected and destined ultimately to destroy itself.With my expectations suitably managed, and having loved the previous three Smiley novels, I conclude this is another excellent John le Carré novel.
The Looking Glass War begins twenty years after the end of World War II, telling the tale of an imagined rivalry between the shrunken, decayed remains of military intelligence, and Smiley's legendary Circus, the political wing of British Intelligence.The book begins with a botched operation; an agent dies.
When a blurry, dubious lead falls into their laps, they eagerly blow it up into a full-scale spy operation, recruiting a long-retired agent who is laboring under the same sentiments as themselves; he too, longs to return to a time when he mattered.The characters and situations are real and dimensional, sharply defined.
I am reading le Carre's Smiley books in order.
I finished THE LOOKING GLASS WAR yesterday.
My plan, and I reserve the right to change it, is to read all of the books and review them as a group when I have finished.As for LOOKING GLASS, it came as a surprise.
A blistering and dark send up of the incompetence and dysfunction within the British military intelligence community which, in the 1960s, was dominated by aging and obsolete hold-overs from WWII.
Call the book a tragi-comedy, I suppose.
But I will maintain my position that LOOKING GLASS is greatly under-rated.
If John Le Carre had wished to write romance novels for his career; he would have written the best of his era.
If he had wished to write swashbucklers, he would have written the best of his era.
They bulge with the unsung in life; the hidden 'stuff' going on in all our skulls; they seep with awkward conversations, lost reconciliations, and people trying to regain familiarity with each other.Can you imagine--writing during a period when the world was gaga for James Bond and exploding industrial bases--John Le Carre setting himself down to pen these soft-spoken, resonant, feeling, psyche-driven studies and getting them published?
This is the kind of book Le Carre was capable of producing at any given year during his heyday.
They're excellent portraits of the slow drift towards insanity that the Cold War set off, and they also come across as pretty thorough condemnations of the more secretive machineries that waged that war.The Looking Glass War is probably the least thriller-y and most high tragedy of the le Carre I've yet read.
Even the more gripping chapters where the agents are in the field jag on tedious technical detail - seemingly added as filler or to add authenticity but creating unnecessary ballast for a story that is already floundering.Just as the novel seems to be drawing to a tenser conclusion than it really deserves, Le Carré drops in one of several paragraphs like this, bringing the action to a jarring halt."Next he attached aerial and earth to their terminals, led the earth wire to the water pipe and fastened the two strands to the cleaned surface with tabs of adhesive plaster.
Adjust crystal selector to ‘fundamental all crystals’, plug in the coil; anode-tuning and aerial-matching controls to ten."The only interesting character in the whole novel is George Smiley himself, but despite this being his "fourth" book he barely gets a look-in, dropping in near the beginning and end of the story.
For the most part, the reader follows the exploits of the Department men, whose glory days ended with the Second World War. Twenty years later, they have been sidelined by the Circus and jump at the chance to introduce an agent into East Germany.
It’s interesting to compare ‘The Looking Glass War’ to other George Smiley novels.
In Call for the Dead and A Murder of Quality, the narrative follows Smiley around and takes on his sardonic, deadpan humour.
‘The Looking Glass War’ is not a thriller, as it is obvious where events are heading and only the deluded men of the Department seem unaware.
The moment the department tracks down the Anglicized Pole, who once was a British agent in WW2, for a risky cross border operation into East Germany you know he's doomed.
Its scenarios like these that can make Le Carre particulary hard going at times; which is why he has to often rely on his most renowned creation George Smiley who seems to be the only character that possesses a moral compass.The Looking Glass War is undoubtedly one of Le Carre's finest amongst his illustrious array of works.
The end result is a brilliant condemnation of bureaucrats and their willingness to put their rules ahead of people.
In the end, there is no way this fiasco can end except badly - and the people in charge demonstrate their devotion to the bureaucracy by abandoning their man.As I said, the brilliant message is buried under the bureaucracy, and after a lifetime spent working in the bureaucracy, it was too much to ask.
For a person looking for the message, rather than the method of storytelling, this could be a great book.
No rating, didn't finish. Didn't enjoy reading this, put me to sleep at times. And I do like Mr. le Carre, i really do. Just not this book.I should also add I won this book through the Goodreads giveaway program. Thank you, Goodreads!
Characters:-	John Avery - young intelligence agent-	Anthony Avery - his son-	Sarah Avery - his wife-	Berry - a cypher clerk-	Dell - a major, runs a club for ex-servicemen-	Dennison - an agent-	Fritsche -German railwayman.
Woodford was asking about him in his club.-	McCulloch - an agent -	Malherbe - Leclerc's friend, presumably dead-	Pine - clerk in the office-	Sandford - an administration clerk-	Smiley - old hand at the circuit.-	Sutherland- British consul receiving Avery-	Wilf Taylor - agent sent to pick up film canister from Lansen.
The "Circus" (Le Carre buffs will be familiar with the term) starts to flex its muscles and what ensues is a painstakingly precise Espionage procedural and an intense struggle for establishing individual identity which will inevitably be brushed aside with ruthless efficiency keeping the "larger interests" in mind.Le Carre admitted that this was his most realistic,nihilistic and hard hitting book and suggested that the stiflingly bleak tone may have been too much for even most hardened readers.
An excellent 1960s spy novel from master of the genre John le Carre.
However, like SWCIFTC, Smiley appears only briefly in the book, which is mostly concerned with new characters working for "the Department" (as opposed to Smiley's "Circus").Le Carre's writing also elevates his novels above his genre competition.
An overriding sense of frustration and helplessness permeates the book; it's a feeling that the characters populating the Department are working hard to deny, looking backward at the glory they felt during the WWII years and trying to convince themselves that their work is still vital and necessary.I won't get much into the plot, except to say it involves the possible existence of a new Soviet missile installation in East Germany and the Department's fumbling efforts to find out if it is real.
'Only at night, when the beam of a searchlight springs from the darkness and draws its wavering finger across the cold earth, does the heart chill for the captive crouching like a hare in the plough, waiting to break cover and run in terror till he fall.' It reminded me of how I felt in the summer of 1975, staying on the Polish border, a youth band on tour.
We sat in our hotel rooms during the curfew watching the beam and felt very chilled and afraid.
It's about the futility of war games badly managed and the cheapness of other people's lives.
The Department is a zombie agency within the British intelligence community.
The Department's function (military intelligence) and operations (deploying spies to discover military secrets held by the Cold War enemy) have been taken over by the sprawling Circus, currently the favorite of Washington the ultimate source of money and equipment.
They aren't but are willing to sacrifice money and lives--neither of them their own, of course, in a vain attempt to show they are still as important as they were when operating against the Nazis during World War II.

Brilliant. I practically read this in one sitting and found it unputdownable. The shabby air of faded glory from the men who won the war that in this story are incapable of making the right decisions. My favourite scene is of course when Smiley makes his appearance briefing the ill-equipped Avery with gently ambiguous double-speak. This novel is indeed very under-rated but in our Brexit times gives you a glimpse of what they (and now we) are dealing with - the men who used to run the empire.
So with this book Le Carre allows no doubt and writes about a past-it, self-deluded, incompetent Department (never named) which has been essentially mothballed after the war and replaced by the Circus.
We have three main characters in the Department (the hubristic Head, the jaded Old Hand, and the young, still idealistic postwar New Boy).
Except they don't really have agents anymore, let alone networks or equipment.
For reasons of its own, the Circus lends the Department expertise and equipment, nothing new but just enough to let the latter continue its dreams of glory, and they recruit a long-retired agent from the war days.
Really good. Feeling silly for reading the Smiley series so out of order, but the books are excellent in themselves. 4 stars.
A branch of the British secret service investigates an apparent missile system in 1960s Germany.The plot is involved and the infighting between different departments will ring true with anyone who has ever worked in an office. The writing overall was good but in a couple of places it was a bit clunky.
The Looking Glass War is yet another tremendous world weary spy novel by Le Carre. A department fallen into obscurity tries to make itself relevant once more. It’s so good.
"For its servants, the Department had a religious quality."  The Looking Glass War is a sad book as LeCarre himself says in the introduction.
The book's central characters frequently hark back to the good old days of battles and busyness prolonging these memories at their old boys' clubs.
However, he is a man out of time; the old ways are gone but that doesn't stop him from playing the old war games and implementing strategies that even the East Germans find laughably antiquated.
The Department's incompetent "dreamers" condemn Leiser, a good man of blind faith, to abandonment and tragedy behind enemy lines.
