https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102738.Another_Day_of_Life
I never thought a Polish journalist's first-hand account of civil war in Angola in the 1970s would be so beautifully written that I'd wake up in the night, turn the light on and have to finish the book, but it had me gripped like that. Am now an utter convert to Kapuscinski's writing about Africa. Astonishing.

É muito triste verificar que uma das regiões mais ricas do planeta não se consegue erguer, não por falta de edificação de quem lá vive, mas porque a quem está do lado de fora isso é o que menos interessa.[imagem]"E aí vi montanhas impressionantes de caixotes, empilhados até alturas perigosas, sem qualquer sinal de movimento, abandonados, como se não pertencessem a ninguém." p.37Para nós, portugueses, o livro tem particular interesse, porque escrito por um jornalista polaco sem interesses diretos no território, oferecendo-nos uma leitura dos impactos da nossa presença no país, e que nos obriga a refletir sobre aquilo que fomos e somos enquanto nação.
Another Day of Life is beautiful, surreal, and tragic reportage from Angola at the bloody birth of that nation that is also imbued with a non-grating sense of something close to whimsy.
This reads closer to a novel or poetry (some people question Kapuscinski’s truth) than war reportage, and it earns comparison to Hemingway, Calvino, Kafka, Hunter s Thompson, and Robert Stone.
Truth of not, Another Day of Life is a powerful piece on a forgotten war and a forgotten country.
ریشارد کاپوشچینسکی خبرنگار لهستانی است که پس از فروپاشی دیکتاتوریِ سالازار (دیکتاتور پرتغال) در سال 1975 و استقلالِ آنگولا به این کشورِ آفریقایی میرود و مشاهداتش را از زمان خروج پرتقالیها و شروع جنگ داخلیِ آنگولا مینویسد. اولین کتابی بود که در مورد آنگولا میخواندم. نویسنده توضیحات و توصیفات خوبی از وضعیت آنگولا در آن سالها داده بود. دوست داشتم بیشتر حسِ پلشتی جنگ را توی کتاب منتقل میکرد اما شاید همانطور که خودش گفته: «تصویر جنگ قابل انتقال نیست - نه با قلم نه با صدا نه با تصویر. جنگ واقعیت است،
ریشارد کاپوشچینسکی خبرنگار لهستانی است که پس از فروپاشی دیکتاتوریِ سالازار (دیکتاتور پرتغال) در سال 1975 و استقلالِ آنگولا به این کشورِ آفریقایی می‌رود و مشاهداتش را از زمان خروج پرتقالی‌ها و شروع جنگ داخلیِ آنگولا می‌نویسد.
اولین کتابی بود که در مورد آنگولا می‌خواندم.
نویسنده توضیحات و توصیفات خوبی از وضعیت آنگولا در آن سال‌ها داده بود.
دوست داشتم بیشتر حسِ پلشتی جنگ را توی کتاب منتقل می‌کرد اما شاید همان‌طور که خودش گفته: «تصویر جنگ قابل انتقال نیست - نه با قلم نه با صدا نه با تصویر.
جنگ واقعیت است، اما فقط برای آنهایی که درون میدان خونبار و سهمگین و پلشتش گرفتار شده‌اند.» http://choobalef.blog.ir/1395/04/19/%...
کتاب جالبی بود و تصویر واضحی از جنگ داشت، جنگ استقلال آنگولا از پرتغال. یک دعایی هم از كك، رهبر قبيلهى كريكاس، قبل نبرد سال ١٨٧٦ با افريكانسىها نقل شده بود به اين مضمون:"پروردگارا! با وجود دعاهاى بسيارمان به درگاه تو، داريم همين طور جنگهايمان را مىبازيم. فردا باز نبردى در پيش داريم كه واقعا مهم است. با تمام توانى كه داريم، باز به يارى تو محتاجيم. براى همين مىخواهم درخواستى كنم: نبرد فردا سواى بقيه است. جای بچه ها نيست. پس ناگزيرم استدعا كنم پسرت را به يارىمان نفرستى و خودت بيايى."
کتاب جالبی بود و تصویر واضحی از جنگ داشت، جنگ استقلال آنگولا از پرتغال. یک دعایی هم از كك، رهبر قبيله‌ى كريكاس، قبل نبرد سال ١٨٧٦ با افريكانسى‌ها نقل شده بود به اين مضمون:"پروردگارا! با وجود دعاهاى بسيارمان به درگاه تو، داريم همين طور جنگ‌هايمان را مى‌بازيم. فردا باز نبردى در پيش داريم كه واقعا مهم است. با تمام توانى كه داريم، باز به يارى تو محتاجيم. براى همين مى‌خواهم درخواستى كنم: نبرد فردا سواى بقيه است. جای بچه ها نيست. پس ناگزيرم استدعا كنم پسرت را به يارى‌مان نفرستى و خودت بيايى."
توی یک نیمکرهی زمین، آدمها دارند خر و پف میکنند و از این دنده به آن دنده میشوند و همزمان، در آن یکی نیمکره، آدمها کمکم پا میشوند، شیر میجوشانند، اصلاح میکنند و به صورتشان پودر میمالند. و بعد برعکس. آدمها از خواب پا میشوند و فکر نمیکنند ممکن است آخرین روز زندگیشان آغاز شده باشد. احساسی معرکه، اما آنقدر طبیعی که کسی توجهی بهش نمیکند. در هر لحظه صدها، اگر نگوییم هزارها، ایستگاه رادیویی دارند کار میکنند و دریایی از کلمات را روانهی آنتن میکنند. جالب است شنیدن اینکه دنیا چطور مباحثه میکند، تهییج میکند
توی یک نیمکره‌ی زمین، آدم‌ها دارند خر و پف می‌کنند و از این دنده به آن دنده می‌شوند و همزمان، در آن یکی نیمکره‌، آدم‌ها کم‌کم پا می‌شوند، شیر می‌جوشانند، اصلاح می‌کنند و به صورتشان پودر می‌مالند.
دنیا چشم دوخته به صحنه‌ی نمایش عظیم نبرد و مرگ، صحنه‌ای که نهایتا تصور کردنش هم برایش سخت است، چون تصویر جنگ قابل انتقال نیست-نه با قلم نه با صدا نه با تصویر.
جنگ واقعیت است، اما فقط برای آن‌هایی که درون میدان خونبار و سهمگین و پلشتش گرفتار شده‌اند.
برای بقیه جنگ صفحاتی است توی کتاب، تصاویری روی پرده، و نه بیش‌تر.
He knows it is shameful to fight for the FNLA, but they told him that if he went to the front they would send him to school afterward.
he wants to finish school because he wants to paint.
he also knows how to sculpt and would like to show his sculptures, which he left in Carmona.
he has put his whole life into it and would like to study, and they told him that he will, if he goes to the front first.
در تمام افریقا آنگولا بیشترین تعداد برده را برای این کشورها صادر کرده.
جنگ احساستو از بین میبره مثلا یه کوبایی مجروح میبینی به پشت برش میگردونی و اون یه حرکتی میکنه.
فکر میکنی میخواد روت اسلحه بکشه و برای همین بهش شلیک میکنی و میکشیش.
اون وقت تو بهش شلیک کردی.
وقتی یه آدم به یه دویار متحرک انسانی شلیک میکنه.صورت ها رو نگاه نمیکنه و ادم هارو نگاه نمیکنه.
فقط داره به هیبت های مبهمی شلیک میکنه.
اما کاش یکم یه مقدمه ای برای امثال من که چیزی از انگولا نمیدونستیم قرار داده بودند .تا نصف کتاب گیج بودم کامل.
War is a reality only to those stuck in its bloody, dreadful, filthy insides…”True enough I’m sure, but I think Kapuściński gets as close to it as anyone, through a series of beautifully observed individual incidents, that on both readings left me in a deeply reflective mood.
In the third section the author is back in Luanda, now post-independence, trying to be a journalist and make sense of a war that has expanded to include South African and Cuban troops.
If you haven’t read Kapuściński before, his books are a unique mix of history, reportage, politics, and some of the sharpest observation you will encounter in any non-fiction.
Impressionistic account of the last days of Portuguese rule in the last European colony in Africa.
Kapuściński was in Luanda, the capital and traveled around territory controlled (often temporarily) by the MPLA, the liberation movement that was supported by the USSR and Cuba.
In south were the forces of the FNLA which an invasion of armored troops from South Africa helped to stiffen.
Another is a terrifying ride to the south from Luanda into the sparsely populated desert to the MPLA outpost in Benguala.
Abordei este livro com elevadas expectativas, o que é sempre um erro.
Se recordo o acontecimento de forma vívida, e eu era um catraio de 11 anos, não me atrevo sequer a imaginar o que foi viver a história na primeira pessoa.
Mas não posso esquecer que o autor foi vivê-la voluntariamente, ao serviço de um jornal, não foi uma vítima dos acontecimentos.
E as mais das vezes o livro soa como se tivesse sido escrito apenas para as pessoas que partilharam os acontecimentos com o autor.
E, sublinho, é escrito por alguém comprometido com uma das partes em conflito - descreve sempre a UNITA ou o FNLA como o "inimigo".
Another Day of Life is a very well-written account of very important but seldom remembered conflict in Angola that was really a war of ideology, filled with warrior-poets, opportunists revolutionaries and sell-outs.
What Kapuscinski lacks is a more in-depth examination of the relationships in the conflict.
Of particular interest was the MPLA's multi-racial make-up at a time when African leaders were using ethnic chauvinism to drive there policy.
The MPLA was a Marxist outfit that won favor with the people.
However, Western subversion empowered a daunting assault on the People's Republic of Angola.
This book could have been rewritten all across the African Continent.
Kapuściński, to me, is the Polish, Cold War, War Correspondent version of Hunter S. Thompson... going to whatever lengths necessary to find the heart of darkness and bad craziness. Has the front disintegrated and is the South African army about to invade? Take me there!Also, I don't know what it is about Polish authors being translated into English, but the book reads like poetry.
Impressionou-me o início, a Luanda dos caixotes dos milionários e dos pobres e a cidade de madeira no Atlântico. O relato é parcial, mas não deixa de ser um bom trabalho jornalístico, documentando uma época única da independência de Angola.
Unlike what happens in most of the reportage books by Kapuscinski, here I felt like something crucial was missing: clarity.The reasons and the main forces behind the Civil War (following a long Independence War) in Angola the great Polish reporter followed and lived in during the 1970s are - to say the least - blurred and confusing for the readers of today.
So much for the ups and downs of history!This is what an average reader buying 'Another Day of Life' by Kapuscinski might already know about Angola.
In 1974, the Portuguese pulled out of their colony of Angola, leaving behind a leadership vacuum.
White Portuguese colonists, eager to avoid what was likely to be a nasty civil war, scrambled to leave the country with their families.
Here enters journalist Ryszard Kapuscinski, who begs to be stationed in Angola's capital city, Luanda, so he can report on the conditions there.
Kapuscinski spends several months living in a decrepit hotel with a handful of other Portuguese holdouts as warring factions backed by South Africa, Russia, and Cuba converge on Angola and prepare for a territorial war.
The late Polish journalist Ryszard Kapuscinski's classic 1976 book about the unraveling of Angola in 1975 is a real treat.
Kapuscinski made a career of journeying to troubled African countries under threat of war or revolution and was a first-hand witness to the collapse of Portuguese rule and the beginnings of Angola's long civil war, with factions backed by the United States and South Africa against factions backed by the Soviet Union and Cuba.
Great descriptions of the tension of Luanda during those days, with Portuguese colonials packing up everything that wasn't nailed down and leaving the country en masse, leaving devastation behind.
Normally, Kapuscinski doesn't stick to a single event across a book, but here, as in The Emperor, he documents, with precision, the downfall of a regime. And this is twice the account that The Emperor is, infinitely more hallucinatory, describing the insanity and fragmentation that accompanied the fall of one of Europe's last colonial projects in Africa, a poor and unstable country that had long been run by another poor and unstable country, before becoming the setting of one of the ugliest proxy conflicts of the Cold War. Some of Kapuscinski's finest work I've read yet.
Excelente trabalho jornalístico, feito no terreno, sobre os dois meses que antecederam o 11 de Novembro de 1975, em Angola. Obrigatório ler.
Diciamolo, inizialmente temevo fosse una delle solite operazioni "l'autore vendeva ed è morto, pubblichiamo anche le sue liste della spesa." Invece si tratta di uno dei tanti splendidi reportages africani di Kapuscinski, questa volta sulla guerra in Angola nel 1975.Breve ma intenso racconto degli ultimi giorni dell'Angola portoghese, ancora non ufficialmente indipendente e trascinata dalla guerra coloniale alla guerra civile, alimentata fra gli altri dagli ingombranti vicini Zaire e Sudafrica.
By the time I reached the final chapter I still knew almost nothing about Angola, but had obtained a number of unforgettable images of the universal impacts of modern warfare.Though the events take place in 1975, Kapusciniski's rather brief but memorable notes on the war in Angola have a timeless element.
In a sense context is not necessary for the ultimate messages of the book, however, which is to present an almost dreamlike impression of the absurdity and tragedy of war.
Specifically, the time and place are 1975 in Angola, when Portugal was granting the country its "freedom".But even before the day of final withdrawal, the peoples of Angola, backed by interested foreign nations (in particular Cuba and South Africa) were engaged in a war to determine their future.
Then there is a war."After the intense narrative of his experience of survival in 1975, Kapuscinski gives a historical perspective of the coming of the Portuguese to Africa, and how the resulting slave trade initiated a history of tribal fighting, social disintegration, and chaos.
Another Day of Life is up there with Michael Herr's Dispatches as one of the great impressionistic accounts of war.
Angola is so geographically vast that the idea of "fronts" is essentially meaningless, so Kapuscinski hitches rides in supply convoys and staff cars and airplanes held together with wire to reach any spot where there might be fighting.
Anyone looking for a clear (much less unbiased) narrative of the political and military situation in Angola ca.
1975 should look elsewhere.
This account brings a poet's eye to the grim topic of wars of liberation in Africa.
A brilliant account of journalist and writer Ryszard Kapuscinski's journey into the heart of darkness of Angola 1975.
At the end of colonial rule Angola was left to fend for itself and from the woodwork spread madness, hatred and violence.
Civil war, state war, international war a bedlam of weapons, boy soldiers and death like pin ball machine scores.
There is no way to reconcile the terror and madness of war, be it civil or global unless of course you are in it.
And this is what I feel Kapuscinski desired.
a polish journalist's account of the withdrawal of portugal from colonial angola and the beginning of angolan independence.
before the advent of base jumping, i guess you had to become a journalist and insinuate yourself into the middle of a war zone to have a good time.
the polish journalistic perspective on a post-colonial conflict (a hot front of the cold war) is also interesting.
i haven't read that many accounts on these things coming from the other side of the iron curtain.

Kapuscinski has done it again, once more proving himself one of the best foreign correspondents that ever wrote. His wartime journalism, Shah of Shahs, and this epitaph from Angola's 1975 civil war, are phenomenal demonstrations of his command of prose. My only gripe is the editor's choice to leave the final descriptive chapter (more a chronology or Angola for Dummies, Ch. 1 than anything else) as the last chapter rather than make it the first, an introductory lead-in.
Reminiscent of Philip Gourevitch's "We Wish to Inform You that Tomorrow We Will Be Killed with Our Families: Stories From Rwanda". Much less gore, more scattered fights with much less organisation. What is appalling is the narrative of the Portugese colonisation, its slave trade and the systematic destruction of Angola.As with every genocide, internal war, the world waits and watches, respecting sovereign rights. But for 350 years...
I'm not born yesterday. I know that Kapuscinski played a deeper role in the MPLA than he would've liked to admit, and that much of his writing works as state propaganda. If you take his point of view with a grain of salt, you still have a memorable, fascinating look at the beginnings of the Angolan Civil War. Oddly enough, a good companion piece/rebuttal might be the Jack Abramoff produced Dolph Lundgren action film "Red Scorpion".
