https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10054335-rules-of-civility
They meet Tinker Grey, a well groomed, well heeled banker who is a man in need of a good time and Eve and Katey are the right two gals to provide it.
But I’ve come to realize that however blue my circumstances, if after finishing a chapter of a Dickens novel I feel a miss-my-stop-on-the-train sort of compulsion to read on, then everything is probably going to be just fine.”Katey when she needs a moment of contemplation, a place to be alone with her thoughts she finds an empty church.
The photos are taken with a hidden camera in the NYC subway car and "captured a certain naked humanity." Kate sees an old friend, Tinker Grey, in two of these pictures.
The novel starts 25 years earlier, in flashback, telling the story of Tinker Grey, Kate and others with picture perfect descriptions of the city, it's highlights and it's inhabitants.
But unlike Evans' subway photos, Towles has a light, empathic touch when it comes to people - the angles never harsh, just true.
Kate becomes a fan of Agatha Christie at a point in the novel when she is hurt, angry and concerned about whether justice exists in the world.
Whatever setbacks Katey's father faced in life, he said, "however daunting or dispiriting the unfolding of events, he always knew that he would make it through, as long as when he woke in the morning he was looking forward to his first cup of coffee".
"In retrospect, my cup of coffee has been the works of Charles dickens.Tinker had this to say about Katey....
Hmmmm....something 'I' mulled over....( as did Katey)....."Most people have more needs than wants.
But the world is run by those whose wants outstrip their needs".
I’m late to the party so there isn’t much to say about this book that hasn’t already been said.
What I will say is that I absolutely loved the writing, the characters, New York City in the late 1930’s, and the story!I was having a hard time picking a book and felt I was going into another slump so I went in a totally different direction and picked an older book on my TBR.
One thing I will say is that I picked up on something in this book that is in Towles next book Gentleman (I listened to about an hour of it awhile back).
I was only going to rate it four stars.
After I read the epilogue and then went back and re-read the prologue, I added the fifth star because I like the way it's constructed.
I also liked the way he brought it all together in the end, drawing some poignant and profound conclusions.
It may be that you can only appreciate the fellow feeling at the end if you've reached a certain age and can look back on your 20s with both regret and compassion for your young self and the friendships you chose before the weightiness of life settled in.
Amor Towles's sophisticated retro-era novel of manners captures Manhattan 1938 with immaculate lucidity and a silvery focus on the gin and the jazz, the nightclubs and the streets, the pursuit of sensuality, and the arc of the self-made woman.The novel's preface opens in 1966, with a happily married couple attending a Walker Evans photography exhibition.
Her best friend, Eve (Evelyn) Ross, is a Midwest-born Ginger Rogers /Garbo character mix, with jazz cat spirit and a fearless, cryptic glamor.
Then a cataclysmic tragedy shatters the cool grace of their bond, and their solidarity is ruptured.Towles is spectacular at description and atmosphere, keeping a keen camera's eye on the city with a polished pedigree of writing that is rare in a debut novel.
You will wait in vain, however, because despite the early acknowledgement of this transformation, Rules ends up asking us to take on fairy-tale faith that Cinderella can go to the ball, that a plucky Katya can shed the accent, learn the mannerisms and pole vault her way into the world of the Social Register with nary a wrong fork, social faux pas, cold shoulder or cutting remark.Similarly, despite the framing of the novel as being rooted in Walker Evans' photos of Depression-era working class commuters and the early discussion of the Depression and its "hunger and hopelessness", the novel is ultimately ahistorical, or at least set in a pleasant social register (no caps this time) where the Depression doesn't intrude.
Blargh, I'd been having such good luck with Goodreads Choice finalists.I really should have put it down after page two, when the female, working-class narrator describes her roommate as follows:"Eve was one of those surprising beauties from the American Midwest.In New York it becomes so easy to assume that the city's most alluring women have flown in from Paris or Milan.
I thought New York City was a bit bigger than that?But, I admit, I hated The Great Gatsby, which this has been compared to.But at least Nick Carraway was convincingly male.
This stylish, elegant and deliberately anachronistic debut novel transports readers back to Manhattan in 1938, where authentic, human characters inhabit a playground that comes alive with the manners of a society on the verge of radical upheaval.This book is art deco, jazz clubs, martinis and Long Island mansions.The story is told in long flashback, from the hindsight of 30 years beyond the events of 1938, the narrator reminisces on events and people who contributed to a turning point in her life.
Mr. Towles has succeeded in both painting a rich, colorful and vibrant picture of 1930's New York, as well as creating real and authentic characters that come to life for us to revel in their company.
“Two roads diverged in a wood, and I,I took the one less traveled by,And that has made all the difference.”The road not taken by Robert Frost.Katey Kontent stands on her balcony overlooking Central Park in 1966 and reflects on the journey of her life and the road she chose to walk more than twenty years ago. Vulnerable and voluptuous like Billie Holiday’s voice in “Autumn in New York”, Katey remembers the one and only genuine love of her life, the irresistible banker Tinker Grey. “For many are c
What Towles paints in elegant yet solid black and white brushstrokes is an insightful and vivid account of the social reality and the vicissitudes of life enriched with fascinating and complex characters oozing with naked humanity, which struggle to find their own place in this glossy yet hollow Broadway cardboard scenario of the New York of the time.
I waffled between a one or two star rating, but I'm not feeling particularly generous today, so one star it is.Basically: upper-class middle-aged man tries to write as/about working-class young woman.
The whole story is viewed through her perspective and this is basically her story, and yet I finished the book feeling like I didn't know her at all.
Towles also had this super obnoxious habit of going off into pretentious tangents about classic literature...basically worshipping works of the Great White Man Authors (Hemingway, Thoreau, Dickens...) while shitting all over female writers (Austen, Woolf, Buck).
Your book was a soothing tonic for this bruised and battered reader.Rules of Civility is the story of Katey Kontent in New York City.
I liked that Katey loved to read, and her conversation was often infused with bookish references.
I'm a few years late to this book party, but I became eager to finally read this first Towles novel when his latest work, A Gentleman in Moscow, also received good buzz.
I enjoyed the writing of Rules so much that I definitely plan to follow up with Gentleman.I listened to this book on audio, which had a good narrator and was an enjoyable listening experience.
Immigrants or Trust Funds?“Rules of Civility” is a love story for a city.
Specifically New York City during the last few years of the 1930’s.
That’s not to say that Towles's characters aren’t fully realized.
In fact the dialog is outstanding.
When a character opens their mouth you know immediately if they haunt the docks or Park Avenue.
At one point the three principle protagonists are out larking and sneak into a Marx Brothers movie.
This is exactly what “Rules” dialog isn’t.
“Rules” has an energy that’s exhilarating.
Blood pounds as people and City and an era collide.
Wanted to finish this book and denied myself a few hours of sleep.This is the story of Kate, Eve and Tinker in the New York of 1938, where it was possible to climb the social ladder with a few rules from the father of the American republic's, George Washington's Rules of Civility and Decent Behavior; a few well-positioned social connections; and and a whiff of intelligence.
In 1966 Kate is reflecting on that year's experiences which changed their lives forever.
A million years of social behavior had worn away this chasm and now you had to pack a mule to get to the bottom of it.
With New York City as a delicious backdrop, Katey navigates both the heights of society and the working class world, and along the way she learns a lot about herself and her fellow travelers.
There is the looming threat of World War II, which is mentioned in passing, but which permeates all the joviality, because, as an audience, we know that what follows the recovery from the depression is a party that is only momentary, ending in massive losses on battlefields abroad.Early in the novel, Katey observes, It wasn’t about who had dibs now or who was sitting next to whom in the cinema.
I will put my money down every time Towles writes something new.
I enjoy character-driven novels.
This one is made perfect by focusing on a specific time and place: 1938 in NYC.
It's a year between the Great Depression and the beginning of WWII.
Even the poised, reflective characters are carefree enough to hang out and drink, listen to jazz and have madcap adventures.
There's a wonderful device used to demonstrate one person's character.
At the beginning of the book, our narrator finds Tinker Grey's picture twice in a photographer's exhibit.
Tinker also appears twice in a class picture.I like the non-preachy examination of wealth, class and ambition in America.Second reading for DCL book group.
"If we only fell in love with people who were perfect for us, then there wouldn’t be so much fuss about love in the first place."I first came across this author when I read A Gentleman in Moscow, which I absolutely adored.
Reading this was my chance to see if he was a one trick pony.
The book is an exploration of love, of choices made, of life fulfilled, of connections made and disguarded and of ships passing in the night.Towles is very insightful of the human psyche and this book was a pleasure to read, his use of language flows so artfully.Recommended.
A love letter to a particular time in history, the roaring 20s, where many literary and artistic people socialized.
His love affair with New York city, his love affair with the late 30s, and his love of literature.The story follows Katey Kontent (really?) who is twenty five, living in New York's Greenwich Village, moving along and socializing with various types in the late 30's.
I wanted to hear more of this trio but the story focuses on Katey, and all those people that cross her path.
There is no doubt that Towles can write, and write vivid descriptions of times and places.
Then there are those books which are fabulous because every line has you thinking, not about the plot, but about what is described, the place, the people, or how a character is responding, or how would I react in that situation.
These things that I mention here are NOT described in this book, but this author has found all the other characteristics of this city that are so hard to capture.
Over and over again there are reference to artists and authors and photographers and books you have read.
I am beginning to figure out who these people are: Tinker and Katey and Eve. We are talking 1938, NYC.
God I love this book so much.Update: June 2018 reread - Shocking exactly no one, I still love this book with all my heart. ❤
So much has been said about this book here and elsewhere that I'm not sure what else to add.
I did love this book for many reasons: The sense of time and place, the wonderful use of language (love the use of metaphor), sparkling dialog and internal narration, and wonderful descriptions of New York City itself that raise its presence to another character.We have all lived through our twenties (or most of us through most of that decade).
So much happens, so many decisions are made that impact our future lives whether we realize it or not.
Well, that debut novel was*ahem* interesting.
A tale of three twentysomethings in New York in the 1930's managed to give this book a very "F.Scott Fitzgerald " vibe, but I just wasn't wooed enough to climb as high on the rating scale.
If this was bookclub, I would probably be slinging bag G&T's like there was no tomorrow while all these 4 and 5 stars would be waxing on about this coming of age story with its beautiful prose.
But the only things I walked away from this book is a reading list(some fantastic authors are nudged in this one) and relief that I didn't spend any money on this book.
Katey Kontent, a social climber extraordinaire and her flaky friend Eve hobnob with rich elitists with names like (seriously) Tinker, Dicky & Bitsy… Throw in a bitter struggling artist straddling the fence between two worlds as he rejects the trappings of wealth for the glory of art.
For spice deception is the novel’s core, seems like no one is who they appear to be.Impressive debut from a Boston boy who graduated from Yale & Stanford, obviously comfortable writing about the world of the privileged.
It’s as if he’s planning to brick me in.
I did not hate it, I did not like, I certainly did not love it as much as other people, including a lot of readers whose reviews I value, loved this book.I don't even know whether it was the detached voice of Katey Kontent that made me feel nothing about anything in this book or whether it was the embellished detail of 1930s jazziness that got on my nerves and made me look hard for another aspect of the book that I could get into.
Sometimes you’re fortunate enough to read a book that can make you gasp, make you laugh, and bring a poignant tear to your eye, all at the same time… your throat literally swells with it.
If you have read such a book then I’m sure you know what I mean.
If you’re wondering, Rules is written with the charm and imagination equal to that of A Gentleman in Moscow, but they are very different stories.
This one follows twenty-five-year-old Katey Kontent during the year 1938 in Manhattan, after a serendipitous encounter with Tinker Grey, a banker from the upper echelon of society.
The entire time I had this inclination that the book was going to end the way it did (I won't spoil the ending, but I guessed it from the start!).
So when it did unfold the way I figured it would, I was impressed with myself for figuring it out - but thoroughly bored with the book.Also, the characters felt so dry!
Though, it wasn't bad - it was just uneventful and strangely written.
However, it kept me reading until the very end, so it wasn't too bad either.
Two young working girls with limited funds, Katey & Eve, are out for some fun on New Year's Eve when they meet the dapper, rich Tinker Grey.
I almost forgot to mention where Towles got his title inspiration...a list of social maxims put together by George Washington in his teenage years, Rules of Civility & Decent Behaviour in Company and Conversation, Consider the first of the 110 that are reprinted in the appendix and one of my favorites:"1st Every Action done in Company, ought to be with Some Sign of Respect, to those that are Present."Good characters and a story that flows easily make this a debut a winner for me.
I live in a community with an estimated population of about 18,000 and it doesn’t happen to me to the degree that it does to the characters in this novel (I should mention that about 3,000 of our population are behind bars at the local correctional facility so that means that our circulating population is only 15,000.) On the other hand, I don’t spend as much time in bars and restaurants as Katey, Evie, Tinker and their friends Dicky, Bitsy, etc.
Billie Holliday didn’t record the song until 1952.No, I didn’t know that when I read the book.
4 1/2 if I could. What a wonderful book, tones of Fitzgerald but so much better. The words are beautiful, the writing fantastic. Three people, Evie, Katy and Tinker have an profound influence on each other, their relationships and many many secrets. First book so I just have to wait patiently for his next. Such a great feel for the Jazz Age.

