https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78509.You_Learn_by_Living
I loved, loved, loved this book. I felt this book is a rare gem that few people know about. It was like listening to a wise grandma casting her pearls of wisdom that are still very applicable today. The thing I loved the most is that I think anyone could relate to Eleanor Roosevelt! She was an extraordinary woman, yet so ordinary(like you and me) at the same time.This is one that I will definitely read again.
A competent person will be generally looking for stability and security in a career so that politics, if it comes up at all, is an accidental or situational possibility.
If a person decides to run for office they must be sure they have enough money to do so: that is, they must be able to take the risk of losing the job again and therefore not be forced into compromises that tarnish either the candidate or the office.The family of the prospective politician must be thoroughly onboard with such an uncertain life in the public eye.
A fulfilled person must be curious and must learn to use his or her mind as a tool to understand and influence the world.
Roosevelt insists that beyond discipline and training, a sense that life is an adventure makes people not only willing but passionate to learn about themselves, their fellow human beings, and the world.
A truly happy, fulfilled person will come to accept, learn from and use the strengths and weaknesses of others as a part of life.
I was surprised that I didn't enjoy this book more than I did.
I found myself frequently saying YES!
That's true!
I found her writing style to be a bit arrogant or patronizing (which is hardly surprising given the life she led - she's earned the right to speak authoritatively but somehow, it just rubbed me the wrong way) and at times, the writing seemed very dated to me.
I'd really like to read her autobiography - I think that would be much more fascinating, reading about her adventures put in the context of the time in which she lived/

Although written in 1960, this book still resounds with relevance today, and it should be required reading for every young adult who wants to know how to make the most of life.
Many of the values put forth in this book are ones that are prone to be forgotten in this day and age, but they should not be.
Most likely this will be one of the 5 most influential books I'll read over the course of my life, and one that I will be referring to frequently again and again.
i've always adored eleanor roosevelt but i do so much more after this book. she is such a wise woman & has so many great things to say--i couldn't stop highlighting. so many great stories from her life experiences. it made me really think about what i have learned from living. i seriously think everyone should read this & the world would be a happier & better place, it made me want to be a better person after reading
It's unbelievable how accurate and still relevant many of Eleanor Roosevelt's observations and recommendations are. I enjoyed this little book of reflection and found it motivating and inspiring in how I can evolve and grow in little ways throughout my day. She is a fascinating woman and this was a great read on advice from parenting to how to be a better person, citizen, role model.
In just 11 chapters, Eleanor shares with us her own interpretation of the basic philosophy of life.
YOU MUST DO THE THING YOU THiNK YOU CANNOT DO." Eleanor also discusses the uses of time, how to be a mature person, readjustment is endless, and learning to be useful.
They were well in their bodies because he satisfied their little souls." The remaining chapters in the book are: the right to be an individual; how to get the best out of people; how everyone can take part in politics, learning to be a public servant, and facing responsibility with this quote:"We all create the person we become by our choices as we go through life.In a very real sense, by the time we are an adult,We are the sum total of the choices we have made."So much in this short book.
Very disappointed. I was expecting so much more after reading the great reviews. She comes out snobby, and though her advice usually makes sense, it was not very practical. Some of her advice makes for great quotes, but that's the best I can say. It was a very boring, I had a hard time even getting through it. I assume she has other better books and thats why her reviews are so good. Might have to read something else to change my mind, but will probably have to wait some years before putting myself through it again.
A book to keep by your bedside and read a page or two before you go to sleep.Inspirational, keeping us on the right path
kind of a facts of life sort of thing, very practical - most of it not hugely surprising, but nice to have that voice with its background of experience and hearing what kind of advice she'd give.
In some ways the way she thinks about and talks of the various parts of life reminded me of my grandmother, though they were a generation apart - it's a voice I miss hearing every day.As a side note on my own reading, it was interesting to read her comment on helping out with a settlement house, even as I'm in the midst of reading Jane Addams' 
This book is basically a memoir of Eleanor's beliefs and ideas that she had during her life.
"Whatever period of life we are in is good only to the extent that we make use of it, that we live it to the hilt, that we continue to develop and understand what it has to offer us and we have to offer it.
The rewards for each age are different in kind, but they are not necessarily different in value or in satisfaction." I look forward to reading either a biography or autobiography of Eleanor Roosevelt.
The book serves as a self-help manual, a memoir, a textbook on good citizenship and how to become a public servant, a source of small meaningful stories and inspirational tidbits, and a historical document.
Written at the end of her life, Eleanor Roosevelt embraced her role as Elder and Public Servant to write a book summarizing the greatest lessons of her life to share with others.
In brief, make deliberate effort to overcome your fears, small and large, and do so by living life to the fullest, learning from and serving others with compassionate curiosity.
My new Eleanor Roosevelt motto: You must do the thing you think you cannot do.
From an academic standpoint I would give this book a 3 stars.
She is constantly stating her opinion as absolute statements--some of which I didn't entirely agree.
She doesn't defend her opinions and sentiments very well sometimes and for that I just thought the academic aspects of the book were "okay".
From a personal standpoint, I thought the book was a 5 stars.
Perhaps because the book is a little outdated, I felt like I was reading counsel from my grandmother.
She is a moral person and speaks highly of many of the standards I believe and cherish.
The book was uplifting.
This book was ok. I didn't find it super life changing or anything. Its a pretty simple basic book, targets to the point where we should learn as much as we can, and face our fears, and try new things. Thats what I like about Eleanor Roosevelt. What I've read about her, it seems as if she was a shy girl, but as she got older, she wanted to learn as much as she could and do new things and stop being afraid of things. Basically she lived her life.
Eleanor Roosevelt has long been a favorite of mine. My mom gave me a quote of hers when I was in the 5th grade and it quite literally helped me survive that awkward time in my life. (Thanks Mom & Eleanor)⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀❤”No one can make you feel inferior without your consent"⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀Such simple words, yet they pack such a punch. This book, written over 50 years ago, is full of those seemingly obvious philosophies on life, yet she frames them in a manner that is relate able. Of course no one is wi
Eleanor Roosevelt has long been a favorite of mine.
My mom gave me a quote of hers when I was in the 5th grade and it quite literally helped me survive that awkward time in my life.
(Thanks Mom & Eleanor)⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀❤️”No one can make you feel inferior without your consent"⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀Such simple words, yet they pack such a punch.
This book, written over 50 years ago, is full of those seemingly obvious philosophies on life, yet she frames them in a manner that is relate able.
That aside- this was a fabulous book.
Thankful to have come across this treasure through my book club. I plan to give it to my adult children...and every high school graduate in preparation for life! Filled with real life applicable truth that stands the test of time. I already need to read it again!
Timeless, and timely. Appreciated the ideas within, the touches of historical background, and the writing.
This book is going next to my copy of Anne Morrow Lindbergh’s A Gift From the Sea. It isn’t quite as calming as Lindbergh’s book but the practicality of the advice in Roosevelt’s book brought the other book to mind. I admit that I only skimmed the last two chapters about political involvement and preparing for public service but other than that, there’s so much to think about and I really enjoyed it.
I can take the next thing that comes along.' You must do the thing you think you cannot do.” As I am in my 30's and have faced personal struggles that I couldn't imagine getting past in my 20's, I realize how true this is.
Anytime I have had something difficult, I keep thinking of the hardest things I weathered and I feel encouraged.
It is the ideas stirred in your own mind, the ideas which are a reflection of your own thinking, which make you an interesting person.” This encouraged me to spend more time in reflection on what I am consuming and not just moving on immediately to the next thing.

I picked up this book after reading a few quotes from it somewhere.
It is an immensely quotable book and follows an anecdote, platitude, repeat format.
Unlike what I expected, the anecdotes where not from Eleanor’s personal life, but from the lives and observations of people she’s met over the years.
(The fault seems to be in my expectations.
This book is not timeless.
It is also written in a time when it was acceptable stereotype roles of men and women (i.e., the difference in temperaments and roles between boys and girls).2.
This book is written for moms.
For one thing we know beyond all doubt: Nothing has ever been achieved by the person who says, 'It can't be done'"I loved this book, it was amazing.
A friend was reading it and was inspired, and so she bought the book for me as well.
Some of what she said I've heard other places, but the way she said things inspired me.The chapter on fear was wonderful.
It was a great reminder to face your fears and to be confident about what you want in life.The chapter on responsibility was good for me too.
It opened my eyes about a situation in my own life.I highly recommend this book.
At the end of You Learn by Living, Eleanor Roosevelt writes that she feels that her book advice for personal growth and fulfillment boils down to a handful of principles. It is always helpful to successfully complete smaller steps that carry you gradually towards a larger goal. There are more clearly defined objectives, it will be defined between steps achieved and made visible. that motivates incredible
This book is a treasure-trove of quotable wisdom. Clearly, it's an auto-biographical account, so you have to take some with a grain of salt, and I even rolled my eyes at some points. But it was a fascinating look into the life of an unarguably great women. It's a very short, easy read.
Some great bits of wisdom if you overlook the sexist bias of the times.
The overtones of her political progressiveness were a bit hard to swallow. But that being said, I did appreciate the fact that she faced her many fears and conquered them.
Can't even. Full of dippy platitudes and reminisces of rich upbringing. I might pick it up again, but not today.
This book introduces no revolutionary ideas or concepts (a fact Roosevelt acknowledges in the afterword), however it is full of wise reminders of our duty to ourselves and our fellow man.
My generation is not the first to neglect the hard work that comes with attaining knowledge, but we will cease to be interesting, relevant, and contributing members of society if we rest on our laurels.Highly recommend this book!
