https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15724396-the-sword-of-summer
Really really enjoyed this one! I'm finding the Norse Mythology (which I've never really learned about) FACINATING plus it's full of great diverse characters! Here's my full booktalk https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wrd1-... ! Let's discuss together!
i'm obsessed. full video book review to come!
Some people will shriek "No!" at this, but I really think it's time for Mr Riordan to move on from these stories about young heroes and heroines and Greek/Roman/Egyptian/Norse Gods.
At this point, the stories are all starting to blend into one and it feels like his well of ideas has run dry.It's incredibly hard to distinguish Magnus's voice from that of Percy Jackson.
For Riordan, I think it should be now.ALSO: Completely unrelated to the book's content, but that guy on the cover does not look a teenager.
4.5
I hope it has some of this: Actually, I hope this series is better than Percy Jackson, because this time, Riordan has the opportunity to put Loki in it.[image error][image error][image error]Yep, I'm having a good time here.
Though I don't know why that would ever happen, but I can always hope.[image error]In all seriousness, there's some complex emotional stuff going on with Loki and Riordan will be missing a golden opportunity if he doesn't take advantage of it.[image error](Yep, this review keeps getting bigger and bigger.)I leave you with this GIF of Loki.
This was so much fun! I'm glad this series is in 1st person because Magnus is HILARIOUS and his narration had me laughing throughout. I love the take on Norse mythology, the new cast of characters is fantastic, and I was pleasantly surprised by the direction the story went a few times! Definitely my new favorite first book in a Riordan series. I can't wait to continue the adventure!
Not only does Magnus have the exact same voice and personality as Percy Jackson and Jason Grace, but they all have a weird combination of forced snark and dad jokes that makes them sound more cartoonish than believable--and you need something to ground characters in reality when you have all this magical stuff happening.
has been announced as well.Those looking for more of a connection to previous books than just Annabeth Chase showing up will be disappointed, as it doesn't seem like this series will interconnect the same way that Heroes of Olympus did with Percy Jackson and the Olympians.Also, I'm taking off a point for this:(Ask the fandom community if you don't already know)
I really enjoyed this read! I've been wanting to read Magnus Chase for such a long time and I was definitely satisfied! I really loved all of the characters, the world building, and all of the different adventures! I can't wait to read more of this series in the future.
She doesn’t have a role in the main plotline of the story but she’s there and as fabulous as she is and I totally flailed each time she popped up.The Percy Jackson and Magnus Chase books do have parallels and similarities, but it didn’t feel like I was just reading the same book with different names.
They pretend to be homeless dudes when they were undercover, looking after Magnus before he was introduced to the whole world of Vikings and monsters and magic.I will say there is ZERO romance in this book, which I did quite like because dammit, not EVERY romance just happens to begin at the start of a series.
I enjoyed this book a great deal.
I loved Magnus friends, well I loved him too.
I WILL be reading as many books as I can of Vikings etc that are more history based.
He has some trusty friends named, Hearth and Blitzen, that stay with him.
There are other friends in the book that I enjoyed: SamXMalloryTJHalfborn Gundersonand I probably left someone out as I tend to do, but not on purpose.
"Magnus's door.
"Should I kill the dwarf and the elf?""No!" Blitzen yelped.
"Don't kill the dwarf and the elf!" "They're with me," I said.
OMG, I loved so much the last chapter! Of course Magnus would lose that bet! He needs at least 9 more books to surpass Annabeth, hahaha.
He’s funny, he’s intelligent, his heart is at the right place and he knows that “Chocolate must be savoured, not rushed.” How could you not love such a boy?
XD Plus I loved the way Uncle Rick managed to involve Norse mythology throughout the entire book.
It was fun to read all those interesting background stories and I absolutely adored the way he included Boston into his story.
*lol*)So this said I really enjoyed “The Sword of Summer”!
If you love funny adventure stories that are combined with a good dose of mythology this is definitely the right book for you!
Okay, fine, I sort of hated The Blood of Olympus, but The Sword of Summer was supposed to be a fresh start--it was supposed to be the book that would put Riordan back up on my mental pedestal.Well, I've been fucking let down, Rick.
Maybe it's because, after ten (eleven if you count Greek Gods) books of kick-butt Greek and Roman mythology, maybe I was just expecting too much.The main thing that made it unenjoyable, at least for me, was its similarity to the original Percy Jackson and the Olympians books, maybe with a little bit of Harry Potter mixed in as well.
You may be surprised to know that my weirdness not only encompaces Loki gifs,but extends to Norse Gods as well!
Upon learning that Rick would be writing this series, I actually went on Wikipedia and proceeded to research all good old Wiki had to offer about Norse gods, from which I learned that Thor cheated on his wife and had a kids with some other goddess, Valkyries are fucking scary creatures with lots of power to blast your ass, and other interesting tidbits like that.
Ooh, and before we go, I have four more things: 1) Has anyone noticed how many names of gods Rick misspelled in his other series'?
That was a seriously solid first book to this series. I love so many things about this book - the characters, the REPRESENTATION (so many props), the world building, the plot, just everything. It took a little bit to get going and moving, but beyond that was everything I ever want from a Riordan book - humorous, heart-felt, and fun. I can't wait for later books and I really hope we are going to get into more of the 9 realms because YES.
Some thoughts:- I actually don't know that much about Norse mythology, so it was a fun way to learn a bit about it––although I'm sure Rick Riordan took some liberties and glossed over some things.
I feel like Percy was always endearingly clueless, but kinda got smarter as the books went on.
I hope she shows up more in the series (and if other characters from PJO/HOO also ever show up, I will be very excited).- THAT ENDING, MAN.
ANNABETH IS IN IT!!!!!!!!!----------12/14/14:So a part of me is like, "Really, Rick Riordan?
AHHHHHHH.Reasons to be excited:- Norse mythology!- IT TAKES PLACE IN BOSTONNNNN.
[4.5 Stars]
4.25 stars"Randolph shook his head in disgust. 'Those movies...ridiculously inaccurate. The real gods of Asgard—Thor, Loki, Odin, and the rest—are much more powerful, much more terrifying than anything Hollywood could concoct.''But...they're myths. They're not real.'Randolph gave me a sort of pitying look. 'Myths are simply stories about truths we've forgotten.'"Yes, it's time for  another drinking game!  The rules are simple. Each time something similar to Percy Jackson shows up and/or happens,
She is a lovely lady, and he never knew his father.Similarity #3 His female companion is experienced in the world of Norse mythology and doesn't like our dashing male lead at first.Similarity #4 He travels with two comic relief characters, who are native magical characters a la Grover.Similarity #5 They go on a quest to find a lost, very powerful magical item.Similarity #6 Midway, they are unexpectedly taken out of action, leaving them with a slim window of time.
PJ reference #3Jason Grace's name appears in a chapter title.PJ reference #4The series name: Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard/Percy Jackson & the Olympians.
Basically I'm endlessly pleased with this hilarious novel of Magnus Chase.
Of course Magnus' buddy is Samirah al-Abbas, but she's in love with someone else!
She's a Valkyrie, so she guides heroes into the afterlife (I think is the jist of things) except it's so dubious whether Magnus is actually a hero or not that...she kinda gets in trouble.
Like they're not really homeless dudes, of course, but a dwarf/elf in disguise who protect Magnus.
Just there's a battle girl (daughter of Odin) who is so like Clarisse, and then Sam was a little like Annabeth (though I thought Magnus was pretty different from Percy!) OH OH and of course the plot is: here is a quest, go meet monsters, go fulfil it.
Usually when I go into a book written by Rick Riordan, I'd be anticipating for the belly laughter and the blissful fun that comes with it.But instead I end up rolling my eyes to high heavens like where have I heard this joke before?I suppose when you have read more than 10+ books with the same story arcs by THE SAME AUTHOR -  one way or another you're going to outgrow them.I turn out to be one of those people and it sucked BIG TIME because I ended up:a) being poker-faced in the entire story.
*I received this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review*4.5 stars
I knew he was planning on making a Norse series but here it is!
Or, rather, the vague idea roaming around on Goodreads that sometime in 2015 there might be a book about Norse mythology by Riordan.
Or maybe in a few years after that....Well, Just hope it's more like the Percy Jackson than the Kane Chronicles.
But I really hope that Loki, if he is brought up and we all know he will be, is not a generic villain.
He (and Thor) BETTER NOT be teenagers.
I don't need drooling over Loki and Thor like Sadie did over Anubis.
This series better "be worthy" of our anticipation...
“Let’s take that hill!” He pointed to a nearby ridge at the edge of the woods.
“Why?” I yelled.
“Because it’s a hill!” “He loves taking hills,” Mallory grumble.
“It’s a Civil War thing.”I loved Magnus Chase!
The dude was just priceless.
His sarcasm and humor was outta this world hilarious.
The way he reacted to half the situations he was put in, just had me cracking up several times throughout the story.
This was a super easy, exciting, witty and addicting read!
The world building, plot twists, characters...
just everything about it was awesome.
I honestly, really really enjoyed this book.
Rick can't do wrong. Another adventure of epic proportions lead by the incredibly sarcastic Magnus is not "just another" Percy Jackson, but a distinctive and a little bit more grown-up journey featuring dwarves, elves, Valkyries and of course, the master of mischief Loki and his many godly opponents. Hilariously written with a fast-paced plot and diverse and powerful characters. Addictive!Advanced reading copy provided by Penguin
Percy Jackson better Urban Fantasy, this one a bit higher or wilder.A Breakneck, Jam-Packed Roller Coaster of an Adventure..’I Know It's Jo’s Blurb for House of Secrets, but sorry, Can't help but use it here too’The All-The-Ancient-Gods Geek, Rick Riordan takes us in a new Adventure Up and Down the Tree of Laeradr,Worlds of Asgard’s Gods & Viking Myths.With a Variety of resourceful characters..Oh and don't forget the Hotel Valhalla, such a lovely place (such a lovely place), such a lov...sorry.It's a fun story really, almost perfectly summed up by the ending as;
This is the first book in Riordan's Norse series (though you'll meet a few old friends from the Percy Jackson series along the way).
Full review, originally published on www.fantasyliterature.com: Rick Riordan, who has enthralled millions of readers with exciting tales of teenagers and their interactions with Greek, Roman and Egyptian gods and goddesses, turns to Norse mythology in his latest book, The Sword of Summer.
Fans of the Percy Jackson series will be more than satisfied with The Sword of Summer, which is the first book in a projected trilogy called Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard.
jam! it did take a bit for me to actually get into the story and i don't think anyone can say that riordan's novels aren't at least a little formulaic, but the cast of characters is refreshing and the plot is non-stop (*sings hamilton in my head*). i think the book gets better the more you read and by the end, i was sad to see it was over. also, i cried at the last handful of chapters. i'm a huge mess sorry.
Hilarious! Here's my video review - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vqMIV...
Duck.”“The Day of Doom Duck?”“No, duck!”Hunding pushed me down as a spear flew past.”Seriously, how am I supposed to review a book that contains quotes like this?In truth, there are very few thing you need to know about The Sword of Summer.
Hell (lol) yes!4) Do I give a darn about Mr Riordan's repetitiveness as long as he manage to make me double up with laughter?Absolutely no!If you are looking for something different, people, don't pick up this book.
If you never read Riordan, really, people, you can't even imagine what this man can do with a pen in his hand and a chapter without a title.
El tío Rick nunca falla.Hace mucho quería leer este libro y no había tenido el tiempo para hacerlo, 
