https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/570353.The_Mystery_of_the_Stolen_Diamonds
Cam isn't a proven veteran of dozens of investigations at this point, merely a bright girl hailed for her unfailing photographic memory, but that gift is in rare form as her first case ever pops up when she's at the mall with her friend Eric.
The case is challenging, convoluted enough that the police can't get to the bottom of it, but no detective on the force is as observant as the soon-to-be-legendary Cam Jansen.
Adler put together a propitious start to this series with Cam Jansen and the Mystery of the Stolen Diamonds.
The following is a confession from Stella Chen:I've always wanted to be like Cam Jansen. Photographic memory? Heck yes! I thought I'll ace every test in school and become a detective one day. Unfortunately, that never happened so I have to rely on stupid studying to get me through school. -le sigh- Also, please read my review of The Absent Author by Ron Roy to take a peek at my childhood and how I became The Girl That Loves Mystery Books. http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
As enjoyable as I remember it being as a child. Of course as an adult who has read it before, even though it was many years ago, I knew the answer right away. I always wanted Cam's photographic memory.
This is the 1st book in the Cam Jansen mystery series. A man and woman stole diamonds from the jewlery store. Cam and her friend Eric solve the mystery. I learned never to steal because then you get in trouble. Maddie
Using her excellent memory, Jan recalls that immediately after hearing the alarm she saw a man with a mustache run out of the store, then a young couple with a baby and two older female friends left.
When the police returned to the store with the man, they were told that he was not the one that stole the jewelry.
After a close call, Cam discovers that all three worked together to steal diamonds, and Eric arrives with the police to arrest the thieves.The Cam Jansen series is leveled around the second grade level, but would be a good option for some students from first grade through fifth.
My youngest daughter is 6 years old an in 1st grade, but her reading level is more on the line of a 4th grader, which makes finding books difficult.
I had taught a number of the Cam Jansen books in my 1st grade high ability reading groups.
Too many times on these supposed preschool and young kids tv shows and books based on the tv shows, they are more about dating, and who wants their 6 year old thinking about dating!It's great book for the 1st or 2nd grader in your life.
When the streets get too hot, and crime is at its worst, count on Cam Jansen!
She's a twelve-year-young junior detective with a photographic memory like a steel trap, and a sense of right and wrong which has trumped and stumped most older male private eyes!
Her first adventure has Cam the Camera hanging with associate (read: BFF) Eric Sutton and Eric's baby brother.
It's up to DETECTIVE Cam Jansen to rattle some doors and bring three jewel thieves to jail (since they went to Jared!).
THERE IS NO THING AS TOO SIMPLE for Cam Jansen!
Part of the Cam Jansen chapter book series featuring a fifth-grade girl with a "photographic" memory.
These books are not whodunit type of mysteries, but each story contains a conundrum, which Cam's eidetic memory helps to solve.
The protagonist and her bff are a bit old for a chapter book.
The books in the series are all short, (less than 60 pgs each) quick reads.
They can be read independently of one another, and are easily understood if read out of order.
This is an interesting story about a young girl with photographic memory who solves a mystery based on her observations. She's a female version of Encyclopedia Brown of sorts. As a mom, I don't like that the youngsters are left alone in the mall to babysit nor that they leave the area and put themselves in danger, but this is just a story. On the other hand, I like that Cam is the lead character, providing a strong female role model for young girls. We will definitely look for other Cam Jansen stories by David A. Adler and Susanna Natti.
I bought another Cam Jansen book somewhere (probably a thrift store) and read it last year.
I can see why I really liked them back in the day, but now I realize that the writing is very much for a younger audience: very simple sentence structure, simple descriptions, simple dialog.If I were to rate this Cam Jansen book (and the others) based on how I viewed them when I was younger, they would all be 4.5 to 5 stars.
But I would definitely recommend this series for mystery lovers 9-12 years old, maybe even younger, depending on the kid.
cam and erick went to the mall and they saw in the jewelry store and they saw went one man stolen the diamonds and cam and erick call the polices mans and they don't know what to do so. the police take who stolen the jewelry store...
Adler Illustrator: Susanna Natti Genre: Transitional Chapter BookTheme(s): mystery, photographic memory, robbery, jewelry, friendship Opening line/sentence: “It was the first morning of spring vacation.”Brief Book Summary:This book follows Cam Jansen, a girl known for her impeccable photographic memory skills, and her close friend Eric Shelton as they witness a robbery occur at their local mall’s jewelry store and assisting in capturing the thieves.
Can her photographic memory provide some clues that the police might have overlooked?Response to Two Professional Reviews:Grearson really captures Adler’s talents used to create an easy-to-read, intriguing, and suspenseful story that really differs from different transitional chapter books.
Jennifer Jansen is her name, but when people find out that she has a photographic memory they begin to call her Camera, or Cam for short.
Cam is a clever, observant, and confident kid.
The police catch a man, but something doesn't add up for Cam and Eric, so they set out to solve the mystery of who stole the diamonds.
They're exciting, short chapter books with a quick mystery and a likable main character.
Cam Jansen books can be used to teach inference using the books' clues.
The short plots can be summarized by students at that reading level.
What does it take to write a successful children's series?
3) Some, but not all, adults are made to look silly.
This specific book is indeed rather clever and far better than, for example, Dahl's very odd and unlikeable "The Twits".
Oh, and 4) Cam is in the fifth grade and surely this book was written for perhaps students in the first or second grade, so these children would look up to Cam, thus children want heroes and heroines.
I've never tried to write a children's book, but why not?
I'm going to read more in this series to get a better understanding of this field of literature.
I was so proud of myself for finished one of these books with a few hours.
Before this, I have only ever read baby books like Clifford the Big Red Dog, so I thought this book was so longggg (this was before my day of reading HP series in a week...).
I was so sad because they never ended up together at the end of each book (I'm Asian..
The only book I have ever read before coming to America is manga..
and they always ends with kisses...so i thought American would be the same.
2.5 starsI read this aloud to my 9 year old daughter. She listened to the whole thing in one sitting. It was very short and easy to read. It was also very predictable. It was uninteresting for an adult, but it held the attention of my daughter. She also liked that there were a few pictures.
This book is a wonderful book about a little girl with photographic memory. She uses her talents to be able to help solve mysteries and go on adventures. I like this book as a transitional book between picture books and chapter books.
If not obvious, I put this book under the genre of Mystery! This book is a great start to introduce children to chapter books. This book brought back a lot of nostalgia and I would recommend this series for any child who is interested in mystery or chapter books or even a strong female lead.
An excellent series for readers who are transitioning to chapter books. The story was entertaining, and the mystery and solution was well thought out. I enjoyed it so much I found myself smiling as I read.
A fun series for students who like a bit of lighthearted mystery. Perfect read aloud for 1st-2nd grade, or independent reading for 3rd-4th grade students.
Our 4.5-year-old son, who is currently very into police cars and detective work, really enjoyed this. It was a quick read, not super impressive, but ok for the audience.
I read SOOOO many of these in elementary school! Younger-me thought they were great, if a little far-fetched at times.
I remember reading this when i was in 3rd grade. The plot was generally predictable, but interesting.
Cute, fast and easy to read. I would recommend this.
I know this is level L book for readers, but come on! It’s was just a whole lot of nothing going on.
Note: Dad read this to N. Not Mom. August 2018Since Goodreads has no personal notes option on iOS app, I must put my notes here. Author annoyed?Please forward to Goodreads that they should allow their users to add personal notes on the iOS app. They don’t listen to the suggestions from their users. Cheers.
All she has to do is say "Click," and Cam can remember everything she's seen, which comes in pretty handy when trying to solve mysteries.David Adler has written several beginning chapter book series, but Cam Jansen is one of the earliest and most successful.
I didn't read any of the the young Cam Jansen books, but it looks like they're more limited in scope and probably would be considered "baby books" to anyone beyond 2nd grade.Because the books are so short, I read essentially the first half of the series and the 25th anniversary special "The Valentine Day Baby Mystery" where Cam's mom has twins, ending Cam's only child status, and Eric's mom has her car stolen, only to be returned when Cam's quick thinking discovers the thief.Overall I was surprised at how engaging these stories were.
good
Cam Jansen and The Mystery of the Stolen Diamonds is a story that revolves around a young girl named Cam Jansen, who has a photographic memory.
Using her photographic memory, Cam remembers noticing a man with a mustache and a young couple with a baby stroller running out of the store.
In addition, the illustrations help readers understand the importance of each big event in the story and better relate to what is happening.
Any of the books in the Cam Jansen series, especially The Mystery of the Stolen Diamonds, are sure to be a big hit in any classroom.
Cam and her friend Eric witness a jewelry store robbery in the mall and notice what the police fail to; the man who ran out of the jewelry leaves in the same direction as a suspicious couple did.
Cam and Eric follow the suspicious character back to their hideout, where Cam manages to discover how the robbery was committed while her friend Eric gets the police.The one thing that stood out to me while reading this book is how negligent the parents seem to be.
