https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368563.Alone
وقتی حتی بازدمت یخ میزنه و جلوی پات به زمین می ریزهاما تمام خوبی این کتاب این بود که نشون می داد انسان تا چه حد می تونه قوی باشه.
(view spoiler)[ چندین ماه با مسمومیت شدید مونوکسید کربن ناشی از بخاری هرطور که بود به زندگی ادامه داد و وظایفش هم انجام داد.
دیدن اینکه یه انسان چقدر می تونه قدرتمند باشه و بر ذهنش تسلط داشته باشه، انگیزه میده که امکان رسیدن به چنین جایی هستدر اوج ناامیدی و در سخت ترین شرایط برای خودش می نویسه و به خودش یادآوری می کنه که:
تمام عالم دارای این هماهنگی است.
باید راه را ادامه داد.
باید صلح را به جهان هدیه داد.بنابراین من تنها نیستم
He may have been the only person in human history capable of not only doing the physically/psychologically dangerous things he did, but doing it all with a grace and thoughtfulness that is always a pleasure and inspiration to read, whether in his diary entries or later narration and reflection:"When I was growing up, I used to steal out of the house at night, and go walking in Glass's woods, which were a little way up the road from our place.
This book ranks right up there with "The Worst Journey in the World", and that is saying one heck of a lot.
I thought I would hate it.
No. This book is full of deep insight.
If you have ever been laid up for a winter alone, you might have some tiny fraction of an idea of what he experienced.
As he said, he was reborn there in Antarctica that winter.
I am not a fan of descriptive passages, but the ways he describes the aurora Australis are remarkable.
I hate drama and overstatement...there was none of that.
It was a remarkable book.
Even though I've been obsessed with cold places for as long as I can remember and have long wanted to visit Antarctica, this book added fuel to that fire, setting my imagination soaring with visions of white expanses and the dangerous era of exploration.
This is a fantastic and exciting read.
I like to re-read it on warm days in the summer when it's too hot and imagining being alone at South Pole cools me down, or even in blustery wintry days when it's nice to be reminded that, hey, it could be worse.
I also have a really nice hardcover first edition of this that I cherish.
3.5?As a kid, I loved all those books like "My Side of the Mountain" -- stories of people going off into the wilderness and hacking it.The descriptions of Antarctica are beautiful and evocative (all the snow, and the aurora, and light), and I HATE the cold. This made me feel kind of cold, heh.There's not much of a story -- it really just is his experience being down there and (spoiler) suffering from carbon monoxide poisoning, but a fast and enjoyable read.
Couldn't put this down. He does a great job of recreating his experience at the South Pole. Also was quite glad I read the "Afterword" only after finishing the book.
The temperature routinely hit 60 degrees below zero and rarely wandered upwards of twenty below, as Byrd - laid low by carbon monoxide poisoning - fought a daily battle to survive a situation that would have killed almost any other man.Over the years, much has been made of Admiral Byrd's decision to singly man a small meteorological station far south of the main Antarctic base of Little America on the Ross Ice Shelf.
Byrd single handedly manned a weather base in the Antarctic winter night of 1934.
His scientific expedition came close to costing him his life, his men at Base Camp made a heroic trip to rescue him.
The book is a composite from his own personal diary, and an account of the expedition from Base Camp records.
There is a part in the book where Admiral Byrd comes to a realization and conclusion about the cosmos, that I particularly like; What came out of the silence, a gentle rhythm, the strain of a perfect chord, the music of the spheres, perhaps.
Having just read another book in which Byrd features somewhat negatively, I sort of wasn't expecting to connect with him quite like I did in this one.
I was surprised by the relaxed, casual style at first, having mostly read accounts by stiff-upper-lip British naval officers and the like, and the beginning has the feel of an adventure novel in some ways.
Honestly, I should have anticipated that, since Byrd was definitely well aware of his public image as a pioneering hero of exploration.
I would probably have died on like, day 5.If you're a fan of survival, adventure, or explorations stories, you pretty much can't go wrong with this one.
A beautifully written scary-as-can-be real life experience in Anartica. In 1934, Admital Byrd was truly alone, with help a mind-numbing 80-mile trek across the nothingness of Antarctica in the -50 degree darkness of winter. Byrd writes with knowledge, honesty and humility as he tells of his experience. Refreshingly free from self-agrandizing egoticism. I was simultaneously reading Alone and The Stranger in the Woods by Michael Finkel. And the Maine hermit is nothing more than a kid playing in a backyard fort compared to Byrd's Advance Camp.
Dedication is the name of the game here.
Byrd survives at a weather station in the Antarctic alone.
Others have written more fleshed out reviews so I won't go too crazy with this one.
Byrd's writing had me nodding at points in agreement as he describes thoughts I have had while working on projects I thought I could do alone.
He sets out with a simple goal, to collect weather data in Antarctica, but an unexpected event causes him major setbacks.
Byrd, being a man of his time and dedicated to the mission and his men, attempts to deal with the problem by himself.
This account of six months that the explorer, Richard Byrd, spent alone in minus 60 degree weather in Antarctica was gripping.
Obviously, the man survived to tell his story, but he was lucky.
Even though he thought he was well equipped and capable of dealing with every contingency, happenings occurred that demonstrated his frailty and even hubris in thinking, erroneously, that he had thought of everything He was lucky to have survived.
Reading this account made me think of Jack London's great short story,"To Build A Fire" where events proved to be fatal to another man who was "alone" under extreme conditions.
This book is an incredible page turner. Admiral Byrd spends from late March to early August (Antarctic winter) by himself in a hut about 150 miles from the Antarctic coast. He gets relatively carbon monoxide poisoning about 2 months before anyone can get in to help him, and he has to survive, using the stove that poisoned him as well as trying to hide his infirmity from "Little America," the base on the Antarctic coast. Not only is the work of survival gripping, his descriptions of the natural world are truly breath taking.
Although less well known than his famous flight over the North Pole, Admiral Richard E. Byrd’s adventures in Antarctica are just as remarkable. This account highlights the solitude, the cold, above all the personal thoughts of a man who desired to seek a quiet place away from the "hullabaloo". This is a fascinating account of man in nature with only his solitary self to sustain him. The journey he takes is both physical and spiritual and fascinating to this reader. His dreams sustained him in these journeys and he bequeathed them to his readers as inspiration.
This is a beautifully written discription of Admiral Byrd's five month stay by himself in a remote cabin in Antartica to study the weather. He is blunt about the decisions that almost resulted in his death and at the same time, his descriptions of the both the beauty and the harshness of the Antartic winter put you there. Even though you know that he ultimately survives (it is his own work, after all), you are still on tenter hooks (whatever they are) as you read.
Byrd's tale of human determination in the Antarctic is timeless. After being nearly slain by the carbon monoxide fumes given by the stove that was meant to keep him alive, Byrd is a step away from death's doorstep. He only manages to stay alive through sheer determination to keep his men safe. Once you open up this inspirational true story, you won't be able to put it down.
RereadI read an abridged version of this in readers digest about 40 years ago. This is a good story. I think I'll stick with the shorter/abridged version
Z hlediska psychologie izolace může být vděčným námětem pro podobné projekty exponované pouze z pustiny Antarktidy do ještě mrazivější pustiny vesmíru.
Funkce rutiny, autosugesce, racionalizace chování, komunikace nebo spirituálních zážitků jsou jistě aktuální pro všechny potenciální "one man shows" v kosmonautice.
A s tím se pojí ještě rovina etická.
Byrdovo úmyslné zatajování skutečnosti a nebezpečí, jež mu hrozilo z důvodu neohrožení potenciální záchrané mise je skoro ukázkovým morálním dilematem, které lze abstrahovat do univerzálnější případové studie nebo myšlenkového experimentu.
Přitom je vlastně jedno, zda se Byrd držel přísného utilitarismu nebo byl víc determinován třídním původem a genderovou rolí, jak by to jistě zhodnotili současní salonní hrdinové a dobrodruzi (ono to v jeho případě skutečně nějaký vliv mělo).
This book is really about half a man's physical experience; and half of his psychological experience.
Each of these halves are equally intriguing, and feed off one another meshing into a complete picture of what he went through in his own words.The book will at many times take a break from the overall narration to display a passage, or two, of his journal; illuminating his physical and mental state at the time.
After Skyward, this is the second Byrd book I have read. It is infinitely more powerful than Skyward. Byrd describes his experience when he spent a polar winter at 80 degrees latitude in antartica in a shack all alone. During his stay there, he slowly poisoned himself with carbon monoxide and almost died.The small scope of the story makes it very compelling and even the descriptions of Byrd's day-to-day life become interesting because he is in such a hostile environment.
It's fascinating to consider being alone for months on end, and to be alone in one of the most inhospitable places on Earth makes for an incredible story. I appreciate the technical explanations as well as the narrative of Admiral Byrd's thoughts, feelings, and hopes throughout the his tenure at Advanced Base Camp. Insight into leadership at its best as well as reading of the courage and bravery of those at Little America Camp makes this real-life historic thriller a classic, indeed.
This book is absolutely fascinating. It's written pretty scientifically (he was there on a science expedition, after all), but about halfway through the book, his loneliness begins to show through. One description of the antarctic auroras particularly captured my imagination. This book inspired me to read everything I could get my hands on about polar exploration for a couple years.
Very interesting story about one man’s will to survive alone in the grueling Antarctic conditions. Byrd also pulls back the curtain on the great inner struggle he had as a leader during his debilitating illness
I read a very condensed version of this book several years ago. In its full length it is even more impactful. Although the newly added afterword suggests that Byrd actually had a ghost writer, it is still a tale of unbelievable endurance and courage.
Remarkable read in an age of modern machines with sophisticated climates control and precision navigational systems.I chose to read, Byrds diary due my fascination with a man of dauntless courage who dared to exist for a great period of time in an utterly harsh and cold man-made, subterranean hut made without human companionship. Byrd's struggles recorded in this diary are mesmerizing to read while virtually living with him as it were.
Brutal, but amazing
Wow-talked about human survival.
Great story. I was surprised how well this book was written.
Excellent, informative and easy to read!
VERY Intense but OH BOY what a story.
