https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65488.When_Hope_Springs_New
Originally posted on Reveries Reviews.I feel like there was only meant to be one or two of these books and Janette Oke just kept stringing them out ’cause they were popular.
I liked Elizabeth and Wynn still, yes, but I guess I just got sick of them.
It’s the same Elizabeth and Wynn of the last three books, and I guess some people really want that, but I just can’t take it anymore.I guess I just ended up being kinda disappointed with this series as a whole.
I did love the first book, but after that they got steadily worse and worse.
Then, in this book, the ending seemed so random and just there.

It starts perhaps a few days/weeks off from the last book.Elizabeth and Wynn are traveling even further North to a more remote village.
Her adventures have been toned down until Wynn receives his next assignment.Since Oke's is a Christian writer I"ll touch a bit on the religious element of this book.
We see the year through Elizabeth's eyes and since she is a calm character, the book is serene.
The time spent in the village was not as much as I thought it would be until they moved on to the next town.This is a good book to read anytime.
So another book that I read in May and didn't review until now. (I own the whole series and was re-reading)When Hope Springs New is a great book, and I like it more than the first one. (view spoiler)[I know what happens in all the books, but I can't help but wish alongside Elizabeth that she would have a child! (view spoiler)[and she never does and oh no it's awful and I hate it! (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)]Content: hugs/kisses between a married couple. Mentions of blood, wounds. A boy is abused by family, but no details.
Wynn hired men to build her a private outhouse in their yard within the first week or two of moving!) World War I is taking place, and here Elizabeth and Wynn are living in a one room house, dirt floors, stove with two burners, two whole shelves, two chairs and a table, a bed in the corner, and nail pegs in the wall for hanging stuff.
Mostly in the fourth book where readers learn that "these Indians" aren't like the other Indians from Beaver Creek that have lived among white people and become civilized and somewhat respectable.
She grew a lot since that second book following the first year of her and Wynn's lives together.
She grew stronger and more confident in any situation, whether they lived in a small town or out in the middle of the wilderness, she seemed to keep her wits about her whereas the old Elizabeth had the tendency to just wait for Wynn to fix things.
I feel like her character has made a lot of good progress throughout the series.I'm not exactly sure that Wynn is growing as much.
I remember that I read this series when I was still in high school. Back then, I find this series just a "lovestory" but now as I read it again, I appreciated it more, realizing how God uses people and situations unexpectedly for His kingdom. :) we only have to trust Him even if we don't understand, he knows what is best....
This book was great, almost as good as the first. I have been really enjoying this series and find it hard to put them down. I recommend this series to all you Hearties/bookworms out there. Love them!!!😍
I felt sorry for Elizabeth at the beginning of the book with all the village women being standoffish to her, but I'm sure they had been mistreated by newcomers in the past, so I empathized with both sides.
But I was glad when she finally was more accepted as she was trying really hard to be nice to everyone.
And I'm glad LaMeche and Silver Star ended up together.
I also liked how Elizabeth started to trust God to help her and how things ended up working out for the best for her when she remembered to "let go and let God".
I enjoyed this book the most in this series although it had some of the hardest circumstances. Through desperate times were learned the greatest lessons and brought her from stranger to sought after leader. How God works to bring good from hard times and His faithfulness were brought out over and over!
To me this book in the series is heavier on the religion than the other 3, so I could do without that part. I didn't start reading it because it was a religious series, I started because the first book sounded intriguing in all other aspects of its story. This book was the same. I totally loved the story she told, which is good with or without the religious parts. I am going to finish reading the series to find out what happens with Elizabeth and Wynn!
I've loved the series, very fast reads, nice and relaxing yet uplifting. I appreciate that everything didn't turn out "perfectly" - as Elizabeth would have wished. I love that Wynn and Elizabeth grew their family through foster and adoption.
Another good addition to The Canadian West series!
Elizabeth and her husband Wynn have been married for a few years now and they have been living in the North since the wedding.
So, the two of them have been in one settlement since they have been married and now in this book they have to journey forth and travel to a new settlement where they will stay for a few years.
I think that Wynn should’ve come home a little bit earlier so he could help his wife and the rest of the settlement through the hardships that they faced.
The ending didn't make me want to read on in the way the others did (I finished this 9 days ago and still not read on in the series!) and yet I'd argue this was the most readable and entertaining book after the first one.The ending of this, when Elizabeth and Wynn are back in civilisation was interesting in the juxtaposition of what they'd become used to, but was actually somewhat boring.
It makes them far more equal in the wilds of Northern (or should that be North-Western Canada).It's been 9 days and I haven't felt a need to read on and see how this story ends in the remaining two books, but I think I can see myself reading them at some point in the near future.
Brief Summary: Wynn and Elizabeth are newly posted in an isolated Indian camp.
She finds it impossible to make friends and spends a lonely winter exercising with Kip in-between hard chores.
After the fire she continues to organize "families" and food expeditions, etc., and through the ordeal the Indian people come to revere her and almost consider her to be god-like.
After this victory, however, Wynn and Elizabeth are moved again, because there isn't time to build a sufficient shelter before the next winter.
The couple moves to Athabasca Landing and are ordered to stay there beyond the winter months.
Elizabeth is the first white wife ever posted there, and the superstitious Indians shun her bad mojo.
There ensues much feelings of uselessness and weeping--not bad, a dismal but realistic story.
Instead of growing as a writer, she seems to be growing into a garden variety Christian Romance author, with her characters losing their realism and personality and becoming stock cliches, her stories losing their freshness and originality and becoming soapish melodrama, and narrative illustrating a lesson giving way to sermonizing inner monologue.
This book starts when Wynn and Elizabeth take their new posting in Smoke Lake.
Elizabeth struggles to fit in.
She struggles a lot with this.
She then takes charge because Wynn is away.
She helps the Indian people.
Elizabeth takes charge and helps everyone survive.
Then Wynn returns and learns of the fire.
When they come back, Elizabeth learns that they will have to leave Smoke Lake.
They are to go to Athabasca Landing.
There Elizabeth has more modern comfort.
They help teach Sunday school.
In the end, they adopt a young boy named Henry and have orders to stay in Athabasca Landing.
Janette Oke is one of my favorite authors. She has a way of writing that inspires me to be thoughtful, patient, kind, & to do my best. And this book also held true to that. I was sad that this was the end of the series. Although there are two books that follow this one, they were written about 20 years later by the same author & her daughter. I don't know how that gap will affect the storyline, but I intend to read them at some future point.
Fourth in the series about Elizabeth and Wynn, this book is the continuation of the story of this courageous and faith-filled couple. Placed in a distrustful, if not hostile Indian village, Elizabeth has an extreme challenge to win over her new fellow villagers. She does so, in a most unexpected way. She even finds the Indian chief of the village taking orders from her. Courage, determination, and love are the themes of this most-satisfying book.
I thought this was a great finish to Elizabeth and Wynn's story. They continue to find purpose as they receive new assignments through Wynn's position as a Canadian Mountie. It's neat to see Elizabeth grow and make such a contribution to her community and recognize God's help as she follows His promptings.
Ador seria asta... citesc printre picături pt ca mai sunt două vol si e gata si parca n as vrea sa se termine. Beth este o femeie foarte puternică, pe care am ajuns sa o îndrăgesc. Am impresia ca o cunosc si chiar ca mi este prietena. Întâmplările prin care trece sunt nenumarate si te tin cu sufletul la gură. 5*.
The 4th book in this series focuses on the Delaneys’ new post, after being in 2 remote locations. Now they must learn how to live in a city with more luxurious accommodations. Their greatest joy comes from volunteering with different tasks.
I could feel for Elizabeth and her isolation she experienced in their new post. She handled it with grace & faith-- and ultimately her steadfastness and faithfulness won out and people accepted her because of it.
As the last installment to the original 4 Canadian West series, this was truly a great fictional novel by Janette Oke. Wynn and Elizabeth go through many heartaches to discover how God has blessed them. I would recommend!! #heartie
This being the 4th book in the series, I was hesitant to keep reading. But, with the books all being short enough, I am not tired of the series yet. Simply written, cleanly written, and, as usual, a great book to read between something hard.
Last time I said I liked #3 best but now it’s #4. So much intensity in this book for which I won’t give spoilers. We watch Elizabeth grow through difficulties and accomplish things she never thought she would face.
This has to be the best one in my opinion. Not because it has the most action (it doesn't) and the beginning is realllllly slow. However, what happens near the end of the book is so profound and so heart warming that getting through the whole book is worth it.
I honestly didn’t even finish it. I can’t. It’s just not interesting enough for me. The tv series is one of my all-time favorite shows though. I had high hopes for this series. Oh well.
What a read! Elizabeth continues to impress in the 4th book as her journey continues. The writing style is a refreshing change from the many books I’ve read. Onto book #5!
