https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37959904-unsheltered
I'm sure I wouldn't have if I wasn't so reluctant to write a DNF review and deal with the inevitable backlash (how can you possibly say you didn't like it when you didn't even finish it?!)Kingsolver's  The Poisonwood Bible is a great book, IMO, and it's hard to believe the same well-respected author wrote something this didactic and heavy-handed.
It was such a snoozefest.I've heard  Barbara Kingsolver called things like "preachy" in the past, and I always expect her own politics to feature heavily in her work, but this is the first time when it's felt so forced and unnatural.
The simplest thing would be to tear it down,” the man said. “The house is a shambles.” You do the right thing. You go to school, spend the years, invest the money, put off this or that temporary form of glee, take on the debt, pay it off. Get a job at the bottom of the ladder, work X number of years and move up. There are mis-steps, of course, accidents, bad decisions, re-directions, disappointments. Some big, some less so, everyone has these. You get married, have children, be a solid citizen,
You don’t cheat on your taxes, or your spouse, you keep trying to learn new things, not just to keep up with changing work skills, but to understand the events and transformations that are taking place in the world, and to satisfy an unquenchable need to learn, to sate that mental itch that keeps laughing at you as an imbecile, correctable only by learning, reading, watching, gathering knowledge, trying to make sense of it.
Tig is a marvel of making do, using her creativity and diverse work exposures to find ways to make her life work, despite the absence of a decent income.Kingsolver is all about themes, ideas, issues, big pictures, but if her characters do not engage, the questions being asked will not be considered.
This is the first book by this author that I did not finish, here's why.OK this was a huge disappointment for me but in hindsight I guess I should have seen it coming.
I loved Kingsolver's earlier books but this one was just so political it was boring and tiring.
I don't enjoy reading a book that makes me feel as though I'm being lectured to.
I grew tired of the God vs evolution discussion, the health care, climate change etc etc etc.There is so much of all of this discussion in the news and everywhere I turn, I didn't want to read it in a novel.
I respect her as an author but this one was not for me.
3.5 stars I know when I read a Kingsolver book that it will most likely be about social issues, perhaps political too, so I wasn’t surprised.
I also know, when I read a Kingsolver book, that I’ll find her terrific storytelling and writing, and wonderful characters whose lives reflect the impact of these social issues in such a realistic way.
I’m having a hard time coming up with my thoughts about the book as a whole with the dual narratives which are connected in some ways, but just not enough of a cohesive way for me.
Here she gives us all three, in two different stories, ons in the past, one in the present.
The connection being the house that is lived in that happens to be falling apart around those within.In the present day we are introduced to Willa and her family, husband, dying father in law and two grown children, one with an extra.
Thatcher and his family are the ones living in the house.While I understand the connection, the message Kingsolver is presenting.
These two stories were so different, not in subject, but in tone and presentation, that I finished feeling as if I had read two separate books.
Unfortunately, I'm going to have to DNF this one for now. It's my first from the author, and from what I'm hearing from beloved fans, I need to pick up a different one and give it a shot. <3*Many thanks to the publisher for providing my copy.
With Unsheltered, she has given us another gem.
Unsheltered is about shelter, which we find in structures, people, nature, and work.
It’s about today’s sad political climate in which our true climate, our Earth, is in crisis.
And it’s about people, some living in the 1870s, and some living in our present time, who sheltered for a time in the same neighborhood, the same house, in Vineland, NJ.
Kingsolver has built a book that honors the biologists and naturists and shames the shenanigans of our political leaders, revealing what is most important for all of us: finding shelter.
You will most likely be down there on the grass counting spiders with Mrs. Treat or staring at her from your window thinking she’s a crazy bug lady.I’m a huge BK fan but began this with some apprehension.
A fair share of fans and friends did not find this a rewarding reading experience.
While for the most part I’ve stopped sharing book thoughts, I can’t help but add my two cents.I can understand the highs and the lows.
I’m not sure if I liked it because I do identify or that her way of telling a story always satisfies my reader’s appetite ...
This fictional character befriends a real-life biologist named Mary Treat, and the merging of fact and fiction is excellently rendered.What does it mean to be unsheltered?
Each of us know the impassioned millennial who tell us that “all the rules are changed and it’s hard to watch people keep carrying on just the same…” All of us know the irascible father-in-law clinging to hateful biases or the parents who just want life to be a little better for their children.
For me, this was a fine-crafted book by an impassioned writer who breathed life into her characters and her premise.
Kingsolver has constructed this book as two interlaced stories, separated by more than a century.
Ironically, the alternate chapters of “Unsheltered,” set in the 1870s, are fresher and more rewarding.
Traveling side by side, 140 years apart, these alternating stories maintain their distinctive tones but echo one another in curious, provocative ways.
Kingsolver suggests that it’s never been easy to find oneself unsheltered, cast out from the comforts of old beliefs about how the world works.
If there’s any spark of optimism in this grim prognosis for our survival, it’s implied by.
In the contemporary storyline, the story focuses on three generations of a family forced to live in a old decrepit family home due to economic circumstances.
Other than the house, the thematic connections between both stories are not obvious, other than the focus on people trying to make the best of difficult economic or political circumstances.I must admit that I much preferred the contemporary storyline.
I found the 19th century story really flat, even though it dealt with interesting historical figures.I expect true fans of Kingsolver’s books will like this one, but I wouldn’t suggest starting with Unsheltered if you’re interested in this book.Thank you to my reading buddies, Angela and Diane, for reading this one with me, even the though I lagged far behind in reading this mammoth book.
I’m predisposed to like this a lot for a number of reasons; most importantly that Kingsolver draws of some of my favourite narrative devices- parallel narratives, and the use of place as character.
At some level, this is a novel about a house, crumbling without foundations.
More importantly it is a novel about the significance of foundations in our lives; how we build and neglect them, or fasten ourselves to outdated and broken ones.
It’s also a novel about loneliness and challenge- what it is to see and think differently and why that is so important.
Transplanted to New Jersey, she is jobless, her academic husband is wildly underemployed and her wayward daughter, her terminally ill, Archie Bunkerish father-in-law and an infant grandson who is NOT her daughter's child are all living under her roof.
Roof barely covers it: the home, an inheritance, is a structural disaster deteriorating rapidly and repairs are astronomically unaffordable.
Hoping to find the home has historic value, Willa uncovers the story of previous occupants also living in an era of societal upheaval tied to the rise of Darwinism and evolutionary theory.
A masterfully written dual timeline narrative, with unique and well drawn characters.  ⭐⭐⭐⭐SUMMARYUnsheltered is a story of two families, who lived near the corner of Sixth and Plum in Vineland, New Jersey over 140 years apart. Both families are struggling with financial, political and social issues of their times.It’s 2016 and Willa Knox and her husband are in their 50’s and nearing retirement. They have worked hard, followed all the rules and have nothing to show for it, but debts and a house
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️SUMMARYUnsheltered is a story of two families, who lived near the corner of Sixth and Plum in Vineland, New Jersey over 140 years apart.
Both families are struggling with financial, political and social issues of their times.It’s 2016 and Willa Knox and her husband are in their 50’s and nearing retirement.
“when men fear the loss of what they know, they will follow any tyrant who promises to restore the old order.”REVIEWA creatively layered narrative of two families living in Vineland New Jersey well over a century apart.
Both families struggling with the foundation of a dilapidated house, as well as the foundation of values of the time.
The importance of keeping one's house in order despite a shaky foundation, deterioration and rot festering within the walls and overhead.
With little common ground, the broken pieces of lives lie just under the surface, waiting to emerge and injure again.
Preachy as hell, to the point of distraction.
Enough is enough, and too much is just foolish.
Say sorry, but a once favored author of mine has slipped into tepidity for me.
If not for the intriguingly tricky family dynamics of the present day story (four generations under one iffy roof!), I would almost certainly have quit on this one.
The current story and the story set in the past segued well and were relevant easily to each other.
The only character I really liked was Tig - not that I connected with her, but she was interesting.
There are a great many social issues touched on in the book - healthcare, recycling, student loan debts, the job market - and they were relevant to the story to a point, but there was a little too much of a lecturing tone surrounding the issues.Hopefully Kingsolver's next book will be better.
But I'm afraid the whole house is at odds with itself."As the novel opens, in present time, Willa, the family matriarch, finds out that her son Zeke's partner has taken her own life.
I understand postpartum depression very well, but the novel seems to want to blame the obstetrician for the suicide Willa says to Zeke, "Helene died of depression.
Yes, student loans are untenable but again all of this was authorial intrusion and inorganic to the flow of the book.I could outline the plot but basically the novel deals with two families, both living in the same house at different times .
Now in her fifties, Willa Knox never expected to be living in a run-down house in Vineland, New Jersey, still the hub of a family that includes her two adult children, her new grandson, her debilitated, demanding father-in-law and an ageing dog.
Kingsolver is highly skilled at creating believable characters: she writes about ordinary people facing everyday challenges, and yet, the reader can’t help but be enthralled.
As always, her meticulously observed social commentary is on-point and thought-provoking, and although this is a work of fiction much of what is said relates to current real-world issues.
I have always loved the use of fiction as a device in which to explore prominent issues of major importance and no-one does it better than Kingsolver!
Thought-provoking, beautifully flowing, with many parallels able to be drawn between events in this fictional world and those we are facing in reality.
Another masterfully written and observed novel from Kingsolver, and another exceptional read!
The dialogue between characters is snappy and clever, full of thoughtfulness.
But the book is even more than just brilliant structure, fascinating characters, and snappy dialogue; it’s a book that leaves its readers thinking about the big ideas in life, thinking about relationships where two people are unevenly yoked, thinking about how a ne’er-do-well child can sometimes show strength of character greater than the shining star child, thinking about the importance of struggle in life, thinking about so many things....A fabulous book that everyone who feels the deep dismay about the world so common today among thoughtful people needs to read.
When Barbara Kingsolver’s excellent previous novel “Flight Behaviour” was published I remember her describing in an interview how she couldn’t imagine not addressing environmental concerns in her writing given the state of global warming.
It’s been six years since then and her new novel “Unsheltered” also has environmental issues at its heart, but takes a different angle.
What’s always so brilliant about Kingsolver’s writing is the depth of humanity she instils in her characters so that they feel very real and heartfelt.Read my full review of Unsheltered by Barbara Kingsolver on LonesomeReader
So when Willa Knox, the protagonist of Unsheltered, is determined to prove that a remarkable historical figure once inhabited her otherwise invaluable home, I got it; there’s something special about learning who walked your floors.And Willa could use a little something special, because things have not gone according to plan.
Their twin stories (told in alternating chapters) underscore how ideologies divide communities—but they also show how empathy can forge unlikely connections between people who, though different, all want what’s best for the people they love.
It’s no secret that Kingsolver is a master of her craft, and Unsheltered once again proves she’s got the whole package.Read more at: https://www.bookofthemonth.com/unshel...
[4+] Fear of becoming “unsheltered” runs through both narratives in this excellent novel. I loved the way the stories of Thatcher and Willa, separated by more than a century, both mesh and diverge. Yes, Kingsolver does insert plenty of political discussion in here – but she does it so well! And as Unsheltered eloquently reveals – a physical house is not a home. The more I think about this novel the more I like it. I may come back and up my rating.
Chapters alternate between the story lines, and the last words of one chapter form the title of the next.
All the same, Unsheltered is a rich, rewarding novel and an important one for our time, with many issues worth pondering and discussing.(In every book with two or more story lines, there will probably be one you gravitate towards more than the other(s).
It seems that the book may have started with Kingsolver’s research into Mary Treat, so it could have ended up as pure historical fiction.
The two story lines emphasize American retrenchment in superstition and fear.
This isn’t out for ages so all I’ll say is that in UNSHELTERED Kingsolver has utilised two of my favourite literary devices: parallel narratives and a story where a house is one of the characters. She’s a wonder!
In 1871, Thatcher Greenwood (fictional as well I believe?) meets Mary, and they get along because their beliefs mesh well - they believe in science, and follow Darwin's teachings, and Thatcher finds himself in a bit of jam as the town is "ruled" by Landis, a strict believer that God has created everything, and science is witchcraft.Willa, is struggling when we meet her - in fact, her entire family - every single one of them seems to have some serious issues!
Welcome to The Big Book of Dialogues!
I was definitely bored as soon as the book started - a woman was chatting with her contractor about possible foundation improvement.
As it is often the case, two stories, present and past, intertwine.
Whenever this past story was cast upon me, I was skipping through pages.
I admit, it would be nice to read about a plain regular person for a change, but this woman just had nothing going on!
It was dinner after lunch, walk after playdate and dialogues about this life that we all have.
I always feel such kinship with the characters in Kingsolver’s books. It’s like I know them and often as if Kingsolver knows me and writes her books just for me. Such is the power of a book at times, the feeling that surely every word is meant for you and that someone far away thinks about the same stuff as you do.
The problem is that I'm exhausted with politics and health care right now and those were the only topics covered by 33%.I put the book down for a couple days hoping I just needed a short break from the topics, but a few pages in and I was restless.I gave myself permission to stop there as much as it pains me to say that, especially about a Kingsolver novel!
While strident voices of corporate rich America promise walls and barriers, the Knox family is being torn down by unpaid bills, diminishing health care coverage, and a poorly constructed house.And, in the late 1800s, a teacher, Thatcher Greenwood, tries to educate his students on Darwin’s evolution, but is obstructed by the major landowner and the principal of the school, who fear the influence of this thinking on their credo of scripture and the preservation of the ruling class.
