https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/770717.Odd_John
Stapledon, however, goes back to first principles, and asks what a superhero might find to do that wasn't essentially just rescuing mice.
The obvious problem is that a mouse, even a very clever one, isn't going to be able to write a good book about what it's like to be human - but Stapledon at least tries, and we should give him credit for that.One idea I liked, which occurs elsewhere in Stapledon's writing, is that it isn't primarily about winning (conquering the world, amassing a colossal fortune, etc), but rather about living your life absolutely to the full.
Ο Στάπλετον κατασκευάζει τον Χόμο Σουπέριορ και ουσιαστικά είναι ο πρώτος που τον εντάσσει στον χώρο της ΕΦ.
Ο Τζων είναι ένας υπεράνθρωπος και μοιραία διαπιστώνει πως η ανωτερότητα του από τον Χομο Σάπιενς πρέπει να σταθεί αφορμή ώστε να δημιουργήσει μια καινούργια κοινωνία, απαλλαγμένη από τους φόβους και τα πάθη των ανθρώπων και κυρίως μια κοινωνία που βασίζεται στον ανώτερο τρόπο σκέψης και τις υπερδυνάμεις του «είδους» του.
Η κοινωνία των Χόμο Σουπέριορ θα μπορούσε να είναι το όνειρο του κάθε χίπη την δεκαετία του ’60, όμως πλέον είναι σίγουρο πως η ουτοπία θα πρέπει μεν να αποτελεί όραμα αλλά ποτέ στόχο.
Source of my current favorite quote:"A nation, after all, is just a society for hating foreigners."Very much on point lately.Interesting book. The strangest thing about it being that I couldn't figure out why I wanted to keep reading it. It is a mostly philosophical tome about an evolved human (homo superior) who is kind of an ass. Yet it was a very smooth read, in that vein of "an intellectual white man tells the world about a thing he observed" toned stories. And shit, Stapledon so called WWII.
On a related subject, I do believe there must be others like me who read many favorite books again, or even many times.
I think that is a good thing to do, and I wish it counted toward how many books we have read on our lists here.
and on...Reading a great book once is like looking at the Mona Lisa once, for lack of a better comparison.
Then again, I mean no offense to those who read a book once and happily jump to the next.
I guess I read most of the Agatha Christi books that way, just for fun.
It is science fiction in its loftiest form - a novel of ideas.Stapledon uses this tale of a youth who is an example of a new superior species emerging from conventional humanity as a way to examine the human condition from the outside.
All of this is made easier by the fact that the new species is telepathic, even being able to travel telepathically into the past and commune with those who are now dead.I suppose this raises the question as to whether this is really science fiction or fantasy.
Odd John is a proverbial feast for thought and is filled with many an intelligent nuance.
In exploring what it is to be super-human, Stapledon holds a mirror up to what it is to be just merely human.Odd John has several shocking moments and is clearly aimed at an adult audience.
I haven't researched the topic but I can't help but think that certain passages caused it to be received as controversial (for the time) or even caused it to be censured or downright banned in some quarters.In writing about Homo Superior, Stapledon shows why he's an Author Superior.- - - Misc: Stapledon was obviously influenced by The Hampdenshire Wonder by J.D. Beresford ( https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...
I read this first in grade school.
I also started writing a book with this tale as a role model for it.
Such has this book impacted my life.
I cannot recall how many times I read this book.
Despite all my moves I still have that very book, though now tattered.
It has been years since I have done more then pick up the book from my shelf and read it.
I almost fear it would no longer be relevant or deep to me.
Whatever the orginator of my fear I would say this book is directed toward teens.
I first learned of this book because it inspired some of the lyrics to David Bowies song "All You Pretty Things". It is the story of a child prodigy who is more highly evolved than ordinary human beings. He is hyper intelligent and possesses psychic abilities. Written in the period between the first and second World Wars, this book is still fascinating today. A great read! Highly Recommended!
This book was first published in 1935.
It has aged remarkably well.
It’s about the next stage of human development, homo superior.
The “superman” concept has some similarities to the works of Nietzsche.
Though I’ve never read Nietzsche, I am a little familiar with his ideas.
It tackles the concept of the morality of the superman with respect to the normal homo sapiens.
I liked the book, finding it generally readable, although much of it is, like a lot of early science fiction, about ideas rather than a real plot.Come visit my blog for the full review…https://itstartedwiththehugos.blogspo...
A bit of a slow read with a rather outdated writing style, but a number of ideas and concepts well ahead of the time.
There’s a very fine line between a colony and a cult
96th book for 2018.In this 1930s scifi, Stapledon creates a mutant superhero, who's super power is intelligence. An interesting critique of society between the wars, arguing that Homo Sapiens is simply not smart enough to be truly human and so cursed to be forever unhappy and at war.4-stars.
Though short, it challenges the reader, and leaves you much to think about afterwards.Odd John is a tale of a ‘superman’: John Wainwright, an Englishman who claims to be the forerunner of a new species, homo superior.
By telling this tale, even with a main character that is insensitive and at times unpleasant, the human race doesn’t come out of this well.Whilst not as well known as Stapledon’s Star Maker or First and Last Men, Odd John is a valuable read.
I would not say that Odd John is an enjoyable tale, but it is one that makes the reader think and is therefore all the more important for that.
I had heard that this was a very difficult book so imagine my surprise when it turned out to be a nice read.
What I found fascinating was discovering how this book is a precursor to a lot of other fiction.
We are introduced to Odd John who despite his strange appearance is the next step in human evolution.
As John tries top build a better world and find more people like him he shows such distain for humans, comparing us to apes.
It is an interesting book by H G Wells's protege, so this is a recommend.

Borderline racist, Odd John reads like a list of generally unimaginative descriptions of the maturation of a hypothetical super-human.
Not sure what the overall point of the novel was, possibly it is that communism is basically faulted but as close as humans can get to the utopia which only post-human individualists with telepathic powers can imagine.
Or maybe the point is simply that humans are hopeless idiots who will eventually destroy the planet on account of our inability to be robotic rationalists (with super powers).
This book concerns the brief flourishing of a utopian society founded by a small group of Übermensch, the chief of whom is John Wainwright, the 'odd John' of the title.
He then describes John's efforts to find others like him and the group founding a small colony in the south Pacific, before its inevitable conflict with the normal species and its destruction.A thoroughly enjoyable story with hints that his later work Star Maker might have been a narrative inspired by John and his colleagues.

Stapledon was a class above his 1930's SF peers, skipping the stuffy space opera for what is essentially a thinkpiece on philosophy, agnosticism, gender and racial equality, and sexual liberation, and just an overall criticism of humanity itself.
Amazing book, the granddaddy of so many sf novels on homo superior. The ESP, psychokinetic and cosmic religious elements seem dated and a little loopy. Wouldn't super humanity have overcome religion altogether?
Superior humans? Telepathic communists with no inhibition... enough said.
A nation, after all, is just a society for hating foreigners, a sort of super-hate-club.
I had to stop and think about that; is this how we do treat or pets?Where J.D. Beresford's wonder, Victor Stott, was doomed to be alone and in fact was plagued by another child who looked similar to him but did not have his gift; John has the power of telepathy and through it he finds others like himself and it becomes his life’s ambition to assemble them and found an island colony.
This probably gives the reader a better picture of John than we have of Victor and the Gestalt of characters in More Than Human.I think that the Ubermensch in this novel have something that is better than that of J.D. Beresford's Wonder and that is that they never lose that sense of wonder.
As a philosopher, Stapledon uses John as a voice for exploring a range of philosophical ideas, many of which remain relevant today (e.g., Stoicism), some of them rather troubling (Odd John and his group engage in some otherwise inexcusable acts that are justified by their intelligence...
Much of what Stapledon tries to do in Odd John is show is a "superman" that is so unlike humanity as to be another species; someone who is inscrutable to we mere "homo saps".
I'd have to read it again to say for sure whether I've lost my taste for Stapledon in the intervening years, or whether Odd John just doesn't live up to the standard the other book set.
Unfortunately, neither the narrator (a friend of John's) nor Stapledon himself is superhuman, so we don't actually get many examples of how John is superior to the rest of us.
We get page after page of John describing how disappointed he is in all the great philosophers, scientists, and artists of history—but again, although he makes it very clear that those great minds made a lot of mistakes, he can't actually explain what those mistakes were.
It is hard to believe that nobody at Marvel Comics in the 60s has read this book when the idea of X-Men started getting developed.
Not only is it about a "mutant" who looks for his own kind and forms a group of them, only to be seen as a threat by humanity, but the term "homo superior" is even used, which I believe Magneto used in the very first X-men comic.
Some people are put off by the dry academic writing style of the book, and I'm kind of with them.
Esta novela es un clásico de la ciencia ficción que no ha envejecido muy mal, considerando que fue escrita en los 1930's se pueden hacer de la vista gorda algunos planteamientos simplistas, pero el fondo psicológico que sirve como planteamiento original es tan vigente ahora como hace 80 años.
Una reflexión de la naturaleza humana donde el planteamiento de la disyuntiva moral sobre si las leyes de una especie inferior influir en el comportamiento de una superior.
Mucha reflexión dentro de un libro aparentemente sencillo, no suelen ser mis lecturas preferidas, pero de vez en cuando leer alguno como éste no viene mal.
Not your typical SF book -- quite an interesting concept, though also, as the title suggests, odd. I was definitely intrigued by John and his superior species. At first I enjoyed reading about his rapid learning and development, but in the middle I got bogged down and somewhat bored hearing about every single aspect. (Though as just a normal, unintelligent member of the homo sapiens, I guess that makes sense.)
Una gran novela de ciencia ficción, con un contenido moral acerca de l superhombre y la posibilidad de que una segunda especie de humanos pueda surgir y ser mas que el propio homo sapiens. Una novel a de anticipación. Escrita en los años 30, claramente su tema se anticipa a la concepción nazi de la raza superior.Muy recomendable.
Meh... This had a decent premise but I got bored of it quickly.
