https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110455.Mad_Love
It'll come in handy in case you're trying to lure some pretty intellectual girl, ostensibly unaware of your real intentions.)"L'amour Fou" ("Mad Love" in the English translation) is a typically surrealist work: enigmatic, mysterious, utterly impossible to classify.
The book starts with a declaration of intent by Breton: he wants to establish his own idea (and ideal) of beauty, an almost 'pantheistic' notion encompassing any abstract as well as concrete form of aesthetic.Breton's Beauty must be "convulsive", that is to say, it must possess three characteristics: 1.
The events that lead to her existence were all determined by the true machinery of the world, the true meaning of human acts and behaviour: love.
Independentemente do que possa ou não acontecer, a espera é que é, na realidade, magnífica."— André Breton (O Amor Louco)Imagino André Breton a fumar o seu cachimbo e a pensar sobre que assunto haveria de escrever.
Continuo a imaginá-lo, de caneta na mão, a escrever frases bonitas sobre tudo o que lhe dá na gana (afinal o amor encaixa-se em tudo, e tudo nele) e a seleccionar fotografias para enfeitar o escrito.
"Independentemente do que possa ou não acontecer, a espera é que é, na realidade, magnífica." Porque é feita de esperança...— Teresa Proença (uma leitora persistente)
I've not read much of Andre Breton (Nadja, some excerpts from his Surrealist Manifesto and now L'amour fou), but I have to say this is where it's at.
And Breton himself considered this work to be an amalgamism of the ideas presented in each of those earlier works, in which those brilliant, but rough ideas that he earlier formulated (e.g., convulsive beauty, objective chance, hearts of communication) are clarified, smoothed and polished (though perhaps not quite lucid; he was a Surrealist after al).
The concept of L'amour fou was of great interest not only to Breton, but to the Surrealists collectively, represented in such works as Emily Brontë's Wuthering Heights (which Buñuel adopted for the screen under the title Abismos de pasión).
El amor loco es aquel que, a pesar de:*Saber que todo está en su contra desde el principio.*Saber que saldrás lastimado o hay una alta probabilidad de ello.*Saber que no tiene sentido ese sentimiento.Te dejas llevar por el amor, lo dejas crecer y al final no te importa si pierdes o ganas, solo te importa lo que viviste.
El surrealismo, la sensibilidad, los paseos por Tenerife y los colores del Teide. El "te deseo que seas locamente amada" en la carta dedicada a su hija... Reflexiones y percepciones atemporales, siempre actuales.
"I want you to be madly loved" that is what i got out of this book, breton's best, right next to the
This is an important book for the Surrealist Movement.
It is a strange amalgam of prose, philosophy, psychology, and poetry.
I found this to be a difficult book to parse out what he was getting at in a few places.
In others, the poetry is really gorgeous but that would probably depend on the translator as much as anything else.
The last 10 pages of the book were really lovely.
I read the book over the course of a week while commuting on the bus and it inspired a short story and definitely began to bleed over into my dreams.
"je vous souhaite d'être follement aimée"
"Je vous souhaite d'être follement aimée."

"The house where I live, my life, what I write: I dream that all that might appear from far off like these cubes of rock salt look close up." One small quibble though: the Cézanne painting toward the end of the book is wrongly titled. Breton confuses The House of the Hanged Man at Auvers which can be seen  here  with another Cézanne painting from the same period, The Abandoned House. An editor should have pointed this out, that Breton mixes up paintings and ascribes to one the context of the oth
"The house where I live, my life, what I write: I dream that all that might appear from far off like these cubes of rock salt look close up." One small quibble though: the Cézanne painting toward the end of the book is wrongly titled. Breton confuses The House of the Hanged Man at Auvers which can be seen 
  here
 with another Cézanne painting from the same period, The Abandoned House. An editor should have pointed this out, that Breton mixes up paintings and ascribes to one the context of the other.
A book that connected more, in some ways, with my 20 year-old self than the withered husk that leans over the keyboard now.
But the end of the book was much more powerful the second time around, because Breton writes as a father to his daughter.
I vaguely remember reading that section in the golden haze of youth and wondering what it might be like to feel that emotion, the bright tension of love and mortality, of youth and age all mixed up together.
Now I feel it in my bones.
If you've ever had the experience of "mad love," you cannot not read this book.At the same time, it combines poetry and philosophy and grasps the critical idea that "[there] never has been any forbidden fruit. Only temptation is divine" (p 93). Proustian in its emphasis on anticipation, this passage really suggests those moments when we are most alive, suddenly aware of all possibilities and the need of absolute focus.
Por momentos parece que nada en el discurso de Breton está conectado, pero justo al llegar al final de cada capítulo sale con alguna genialidad que aclara todo. "¿Pero cómo protegerse [del tiempo]? ¿Quién nos enseñará a depurar la alegría del recuerdo?" "Hacia todo y contra todo, habría yo mantenido que este siempre es la gran llave. Lo que he amado, lo haya retenido o no, lo amaré siempre"
I'm conflicted about Mad Love. Of course the writing is magnificent. But. Is it an adulation of love as both mystery and revelation - or is it just male power in disguise? I know it is a book 'of its time'. And yes, I am judging it by today's standards. But how do you read a passage that is essentially a paean to objectifying and stalking women?
I did not feel pleasure reading this but instead did so merely to extract the ideas contained within. I wonder if the translation made it such a chore?
My main takeaway from this book is that nothing has meaning unless you assign it meaning. Same goes for this text. Good luck!
Mä en ole ihan varma mistä kaikesta tämä esseetyyppisten lukujen kokoontuminen kertoi. Rakkaudestakin. Surrealismin metodistakin.
L’amour sera convulsif ou ne sera pas.
André Breton, the father of the surrealist movement, wrote Mad Love (L'Amour Fou) in 1937.
In Breton's opinion, love is the most marvelous thing in the world and it should be felt intensely and transcendently.
It should be a 'mad love'.
When we love, we should become marvelous as well.
Actually, this perspective of love and passion was shared by most surrealists.
The last chapter is a letter dedicated to his daughter where he says: 'I want you to be madly loved'.In this book, you'll find poetry, essay-style and philosophy.
As I am spending my days reading essays, I was in the need of something else.
The work of art, just like any fragment of human life considered in its deepest meaning, seems to me devoid of value if it does not offer the hardness, the rigidity, the regularity, the luster on every interior and exterior facet, of the crystal.
The house where I live, my life, what I write: I dream that all that might appear from far off like these cubes of rock salt look close up.....What attracts me in such a manner of seeing, is that, as far as the eye can see, it recreates desire.
New review:What is this shit?
One star for you, Breton, and consider yourself blessed.[/rant:]------Old review (written right after I read the book):Infuriatingly difficult to read -- I was rocking seven minutes a page for most of this baby.
Brilliant at times, beautifully written, fantastic imagery.
I'm not a big a fan of surrealism, though, possibly because I'm not a big fan of LSD, which may be the key ingredient to understanding this sort of art.One lament that must reduce the rating to three stars: Breton's theory that all discord in love can be explained through pre-determined circumstantial causes unrelated to the lovers themselves.
Both an exortation on love, and a celebration on the kind of mad love that one would expect from the title, as well as a thought, on love itself, on the nature of thought, on the existence of life and on the necessity of poetry, this book is something particularly wonderful and confounding.The confounding has to do with the surrealist poetry aspect.
When we look at a spoon and see in it the slipper of cinderella, and with that a kind of promise of a match, of a romantic partner, and how it can defy expectations and appearances and seeming sense to be something much more perfect and beautiful than originally conceived.
This is a beautiful book and a prime example of surrealist literature.
What I mean is that you will read 100 pages and pick out what could be understood in 10.
This is not a bad thing, but also not for most people.
Definitely not an easy read in the sense of flow.The great thing about this book is that in those 10 pages of understanding are some of the most brilliant insights.
I'm still getting used to surrealist literature and this one is not for beginners (in my opinion).
Um texto do autor surrealista André Breton, publicado em 1937. Um ensaio sobre o amor, com sentido autobiográfico e com inserção de fotografias. O fio condutor através das narrativas de lembranças, sonhos, devaneios e reflexões é o Amor. Breton versa a dicotomia entre o amor espiritual e o amor carnal, que se podem unir no "amour fou".O último capítulo do texto é uma carta dedicada à filha, ainda criança nessa altura, em que Breton diz "Je vous souhaite d'être follement aimée." (Desejo que sejas loucamente amada.)
I'm not particularly well-read when it comes to surrealist prose poetry, so I didn't know how to approach this work. Some of the stuff I understood was beautiful (I'm talking to you, passage about the mask and the wooden spoon), and some of the stuff I understood was a little too abstract for me. There were some passages I wanted to understand, and other passages that I didn't care to understand. I found the first 60 pages to have my favorite passages.
Bravo Breton! Lucid though wordy and long-winded. Still a near indescribable dream of what love could or should be. Written communicatively with lovely painterly flourishes of language and timely abstractions. And, "Mad Love", what a title! What a concept!
I had so much expectation in this book and finally it wasn't as wonderful as I expected, is pretty flamboyant the way how is wrote, maybe I have to give another chance to my mate Breton reading Nadja, let see if my opinion change next time.
Mad love surrounds its reader in thick description demanding concentration on object and potential significance. Ultimately proving that perception stems directly from desire, the essay-style text cunningly presents "you see what you want to see."
I bought this at Myopic after Think Galactic book group one night, while browsing with Mat Defiler. I like the surrealists (as I know Mat does) but due to the theme of this; though I was excited about reading it, I've been kind of saving it for February... if I have time to read it then.
