https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14028.Snow_Country
No longer a girl but still not a woman, she loves with passionate abandon, making herself vulnerable to her own emotions.Who hasn’t loved someone knowing the story is over before it even started?Who hasn’t given free rein to imagination and switched the shipwreck of today for the groundless hope of a future with the person who consistently neglects us?Shimamura goes back to the Snow Country, to this world of fantasy, expecting to be reunited with young Komako, whose inexperience attracts and repulses him at once.
You quickly see all the references to black hair against the white snow and darkness against sunlight, distant music against stillness -- darkness and wasted beauty as the main character says in regard to his favorite geisha.
The other main character is the geisha who has more or less fallen in love with this man.
A passage I liked: “The man was clearly ill, however, and illness shortens the distance between a man and a woman.”There is a lot in the book about the coolness of the special Japanese fabric called chijimi, and how it is laboriously made.
You don’t need to know who they are since all lovers in my country appear the same.
Intoxicated, they spent nights under my shadows and burnt lamps to spring reflections in my eyes; they held their rage and admiration under the chilling blanket I sent their way; they fought their jealousies when I subdued to let the sun cast a scarlet veil on Yoko, the lovely girl who never got bewitched under my spell and they darted viscous glances through my flakes at each pondering pause, rippled from Yukio’s disintegration.
turn this way!I too feel lonelylate in autumn~ Basho's Haiku As if on a winter’s night a traveler, travels to a distant land, where the snow falls even on the maple leaves.
Where one heart has room only for the pleasure of regaining what had been lost and another voice is so beautiful that it’s almost lonely and sad.
Where eyes reflect the desperation of an intermittent wait and doors are opened for expected/unexpected arrivals.
Where Hellos and Goodbyes arrive like the seasons of a year.
Where it’s easy to find oneself and easier to lost oneself.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveThe Publisher Says: Nobel Prize winner Yasunari Kawabata’s Snow Country is widely considered to be the writer’s masterpiece: a powerful tale of wasted love set amid the desolate beauty of western Japan.At an isolated mountain hot spring, with snow blanketing every surface, Shimamura, a wealthy dilettante meets Komako, a lowly geisha.
While there in the wildest of boondocks Japan possesses, he meets Komako, probably the world's worst geisha, but apparently a fascinating contrast to all other women for Shimamura.
Every damn time Komako exhibits what today we'd call a bipolar break exacerbated by alcohol abuse, I'd find myself thinking, "This damned book is Come Back, Little Sheba directed by Kurosawa." Seriously.
Shimamura’s Tale Part IThe Milky WaySits high aboveMountain country,IlluminatingVillages below.Stardust falls Earthbound, Until, frozen,It becomesWhite snowflakesThat shroud the ground,Two meters deep.My hands reach outTowards the winter sky,Hoping I might catch A star in each hand.For a moment,They’re in my grasp.I adore themLike they’re loversThat I can keep.My desire doesn't Require thatI make a choice.Sometimes, it’s true, You can have both.But the angry fire In my selfish heartMelts my loving flakes,The one a sacrificeThat I must make,The other myPunishment.Fate slices through meLike a knife,Deservedly,And leaves meTo returnTo my wife,And little childIn Tokyo,Empty-handedly,With only this my taleBetween my legs.Shimamura’s Tale Part II[Apologies to Shakespeare]With thine eyes and mind,Thou hast committed fornication, But that was in the snow country,And besides, the girl is dead.Komako's CounselWatch out for the beauWho'll approach you in the snow.He makes l'amour faux.PartitionWe must learn how toPartition self-pity fromSensitivity.In This Time of Dying[For, Because Inspired by, Clive James]Poet, write not of"Existential Crisis":Treasure life itself.Japanese Maple[By Clive James]http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/201..."The Old Capital" by Yasunari Kawabata[First Lines of the Novel]"Chieko discovered the violets Flowering on the trunk of the old maple tree.
This is a tale of such intensely burning passion that no other work I have read comes close to matching, and it makes it all the more astounding when you consider the restraint that is displayed by the very actions of the two people who breathe life into this book.Shimamura is a Tokyo man of weak passion, a connoisseur of desultoriness and lethargy yet when he meets the naïve and transparent country girl named Komako something inside him is stirred.
And yet love, no matter how repressed or covered, breaks out and consumes like a flame that burns steadily, strongly, through the years.
New love is as delicate as the wings of a moth.
I try to write but the words disintegrate between my fingertips.
They melt like snow on my tongue.
They will slip through your fingers like sand.
They will drift through the air like dandelion wishes.New love is as fleeting as the blossoms of an almond tree.The words might cut you like the sharp edge of this paper.
The tiny cuts will sting.
They fall into your lap and you brush them away with a shrug.New love floats on water.
New love sinks like a stone.

Muy fan de Kawabata.Este es uno de esos libros llenos de sutilezas en el que predominan los sentimientos y la atmósfera única de ese País de nieve. Me he sentido una más en ese lugar perdido entre las montañas, totalmente aislado, gélido y antiguo, con la magia de las tradiciones que se desmoronan por sí solas.
Snow Country opens with a strange, beautiful scene which sets up the story, and leaves hints at what is to follow, A woman’s eye floated up before him.
Outside it was growing dark, and the lights had been turned on in the train, transforming the window into a mirror.
He sees surfaces, he admires beauty, but he lets nothing in.Let this be his song: http://youtu.be/MCCPRy2pHzYThe plot is simple: Shimamura, a weathy married man, goes three times to a hot springs in the snow country of Japan and has an affair with a geisha named Komako.
Snow Country is one exquisite read.
It should be on every classics list, and bump a couple of dead Americans or Englishmen to make room near the top of the "top 100 books you must read to be deemed educated".
Two tips.
First, I recommend that you not do what I did, and read it over a period of 2 weeks - 20 pages here, 12 pages there.
I didn't do service to it.
Second, I recommend that you read these two friends' reviews because they also are exquisite and tell you everything you need to know about Kawabata's masterpiece.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Gray, the color of loneliness and dissatisfaction, of a heart torn by guilt and shame. Long, gray winters and snow-covered mountains, snow as high as his knees, snow to bury his secret rendezvous. Gray, the color a person sees, when he thinks the grass is greener elsewhere. Black and white forms gray in Kawabata's fictional creation, where the mountains are "black," but "brilliant with the color of the snow." Perhaps gray is the color of unrequited love, or of "wasted effort." He was conscious o
He was conscious of an emptiness that made him see Komako's life as beautiful but wasted, even though he himself was the object of her love; and yet the woman's existence, her straining to live, came touching him like naked skin.
Komako sees her dreams and happiness within Shimamura, those dreams of the city and its cultured ways, and yet she knows that they can never be, that she can never be more than a geisha.
She reads a lot, and writes reviews within her journal, yet he also notices that her attitude has been plagued by the geisha life.
As the lights in the train compartment are turned on in the evening, the windows become mirrors against the dark background, reflecting Shimamura placid face side by side with the beautiful and intriguing visage of the young girl sitting across from him.
The contrast between the two lovers could not be made clearer : the woman of the snow country is burning with passion (there are repeated references to her red blushing skin, something that Shimamura finds extremely appealing), while the big city man remains distant and cold hearted, like an enthomologist studying an insect under a magnifying glass.
Butterflies.....Amusing the lotus pondA child’s delight. Butterflies dab my tears and lotuses kiss my heart. As a child, I used to spend hours gazing the dainty beauties as they flirted with the boisterous flowers. Amid my hearty giggles, the soft buttery wings browsed my cheeks for a pink watermark. I sought to embrace these coquettish insects as I sat on the wet grass. As I lifted one from its flowering sojourn and laid it on my palms, my eyes lit like the time my mother cuddled me after a ba
Like peonies on a frosty river bank searching for happy puns, Kawabata equates the beauty of human intimacies as the ephemeral weave that do not even have half the shelf-life of an airy Chijimi cloth.“The labor into which a heart has poured its whole love…where will it have it say, to excite and inspire, and when?Only if one could have read Komako’s diary, the one that she had been writing since she was 16, it would have been known whether her loyal love to Shimamura, her skeptical emotions for Yoko, her collection of non-smoked cigarettes and her stance in Yukio’s life were a bunch of wasted efforts.
Not my cup of tea!
I'm going to read two more of your books soon.) I say that Snow Country is attaching oneself to a significant expression in life or death desperate hopes that it is going to light up the unreal times.
Shimamura and the geisha Komako have a relationship like I feel I have with my stories, songs, a walk through the rain after a storm (my absolute favorite times ever).
Shimamura feels about everything that is Komako's life is a "wasted effort".
I feel more wonder about Komako's dreaming because there is potential in not knowing what it will look like down at the bottom.
That fear is probably why they live so much in wasted efforts/unreal times...
I understood it to be a seminal Japanese work, and perhaps a partial answer to the question, “Whither Murakami?” A man, Shimamura, a dilettante, goes to an isolated mountain hotspring in the snow country.
As he picked up a dead insect to throw it out, he sometimes thought for an instant of the children he had left in Tokyo.Like Magic Mountain, Snow Country was written between the World Wars (written between 1934 and 1937 with a final installment added in 1947).
There are withering chrysanthemums and Shimamura could feel the red over the starlit snow.But we don’t like Shimamura, who lets things happen.
We like Komako and her tortured soul.
The Geishas there live under crushing poverty and hopeless surrender, maintaining a façade of self-importance but in reality are no more than prostitutes offering affordable services to travelling men.This novel is a heart-rending portrayal of that life, told through the story of a Snow Country Geisha, Komako, who meets a rich idler from Tokyo, Shimamura, who comes to the town to enjoy the hot springs the area is famous for.
The rich city idler is as though unable to reciprocate the love of Komako who, despite something special in her, is only a hot spring Geisha in his ignoble eyes.
[ ▷ ◻ ]       Bashō's evocative haiku is referenced by the end of the book, as one of the characters contemplates small drops of fire that, in contrast to the quiet atmosphere of a country made of snow, were floating in the air, ablaze with fury and disenchantment, sheltered by the absolute splendour of the Milky Way. The sublimeness of a firmament under which existence manifests itself in the shape of beauty and sadness. As always, Bashō depicted an entire universe in three lines. Trifling matt
Bashō's evocative haiku is referenced by the end of the book, as one of the characters contemplates small drops of fire that, in contrast to the quiet atmosphere of a country made of snow, were floating in the air, ablaze with fury and disenchantment, sheltered by the absolute splendour of the Milky Way. The sublimeness of a firmament under which existence manifests itself in the shape of beauty and sadness.
One can't help wondering if it is worth letting someone in when parting is already on the horizon; latent, existing......after all, the Milky Way illuminating an entire world made of snow might be the only thing some people have in common.
I think we can all agree that the word "cozy" has had its day but fuck my puppies if I couldn't curl up and die in one of these things.Anyway we've been talking about the "thin sheet of paper," as Jun'ichirō Tanizaki calls it, between the words and the world.
Snow Country gets compared to haiku: stark, with unexpected vistas.
College, man.Which, I know, you're like the whole thing with a haiku is that it's super short, and this is super short for a novel, but that's still relatively long, isn't it?
If you wanted to write a haiku you've wasted like 174 and a half pages.
He has a geisha lover named Komako in snow country in the mountains.
Each trip occurs in a different season, and each in turn reflects his deepening involvement with a country geisha in a small village.
doesn’t that only serve to make more profound the intensity of encountering the sublime, the fact that we can’t fully grasp it, that we can’t even understand it?One summer when I was nine I developed a deep attachment to a girl who was about my age.
She totally consumed me, but as summer neared the end she left town; went back to California.I must’ve told my mom about my attraction to this girl.
I hear a lot of trash talked on Japanese novels and films from time to time (excluding those centering on martial arts, of course), of how they are slow, simple, boring, plotless, and where are the explosions, anyway?
Regardless, the Action is reserved for the finale; it's the sword in the guts of the story's body, the last touches on what is otherwise a, yes, simple, honest portrayal of human desire.
In short, just because a relationship is stated as following such and such rules ( you know, "casual," "open," "sexwork," etc), that does not mean that human nature won't eventually rear its many ugly Hydra heads.
Particularly when a light out in the mountains shone in the center of the girl’s face, Shimamura felt his chest rise at the inexpressible beauty of it."An issue I have with writing a review of 'Snow Country" is that Yasunari Kawabata's writing is so full of luscious images that I fear that my own words will seem both empty or, worse, acts of despoilment.
So, one may ask, why do they exist at all?Kawabata does a strange thing at the beginning of Part Two of the book, the beginning of another of Shimamura's trips to the resort.
Ένα βιβλίο που μαγεύει,όχι με την υπόθεση αλλά με τη γραφή!Υπόθεση:Ο Σιμαμούρα πηγαινοέρχεται από την πόλη(όπου είναι η μόνιμη κατοικία του κι η βαρετή ζωή του) στο βουνό,σ'ένα χωριό στη "χώρα του χιονιού",όπου τον περιμένει υπομονετικά κάθε φορά η Κομάκο.Κάθε φορά που βρίσκουν οένας τον άλλον παρατηρούν τί έχει αλλάξει και τί έχει μείνει ίδιο στη ζωή τους,στο περιβάλλον τους,στα συναισθήματά τους.Ο τρόπος που γράφει ο Καβαμπάτα είναι υπέροχος.Μου άρεσε ιδιαίτερα η ενσωμάτωση των εποχών,και της
Ένα βιβλίο που μαγεύει,όχι με την υπόθεση αλλά με τη γραφή!Υπόθεση:Ο Σιμαμούρα πηγαινοέρχεται από τη
The main plot moves around a married guy from Tokyo, who visits a mountain hotspring in the snowiest place on the Earth to "relax" or "escape" the family burden or ties (possibly), yet he winds up contrarily getting entrapped in a love conundrum between Komatsu and Yoko, two of latter are implicitly tied to one another but we are never told what sort of tie it actually is.
All story goes through the "Japanese passion" (displayed mostly by female characters), loneliness, search for love or better put it "secure placement", and the dichotomy of snow and fire, which is best pictured at the last pages of the book, where everything turn into a juicy existence, beauty, innocence and meaning dissolves completely, so meaningfully what I get in the end is the sole sadness!

(Mt. Fuji, Japan) "It was a stern night landscape. The sound of the freezing of snow over the land seemed to roar deep into the earth. There was no moon. The stars, almost too many to be true, came forward so brightly that it was as if they were falling with the swiftness of the void." 'Snow Country' has one of the most beautifully descriptive proses I've read. It is a lot like the snow it spends so much time on: an intrinsic feeling of purity and truth runs in Kawabata's words, and the picture
The sound of the freezing of snow over the land seemed to roar deep into the earth.
'Snow Country' has one of the most beautifully descriptive proses I've read.
It's a wonderful short book, filled with beauty in almost its every sentence, and as a nugget I'll throw in what is the most empathetic line a college student can read in the month of October:"I'm not drunk.
Who says I'm drunk?
mười mấy năm đọc lại Kawabata, vẫn thấy hay như ngày nào. như một bài thơ haiku! cái kết thúc thật quá kinh dị. dĩ nhiên không thích bằng cố đô hay tiếng rền của núi, nhưng vẫn là một tuyệt tác
As primeiras páginas não me inspiraram, passei para outros livros, entretanto o local e o ambiente, a terra de neve, não se descolavam da minha ideia, por isso resolvi voltar a ele.
A "Terra de Neve" não é um livro fácil, porque não é muito acessível a ocidentais.
A cultura japonesa é muito forte e densa, de modo que conseguir captar os vários níveis de leitura que Kawabata cria é bastante complicado.Ainda assim, e como dizia acima, o mundo de Kawabata impressiona, cola-se a nós, sente-se a melancolia ali e dá-se-lhe as mãos.
