https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6101138-wolf-hall
So many people think it's brilliant while I couldn't maintain enough interest to finish it.I love historical fiction, especially from this time period, so I expected to really like this one.
It took so much effort to figure out who was who and who said what and what was going on that it stopped being entertaining or thought-provoking and just became work.And did I mention the colon?
After reading numerous reviews, even from people who loved the book, that said that most of the characters remained distant throughout and that they didn't learn anything more about Cromwell after reading 500+ pages, that was enough for me.
Every once in a while, as if recognizing the problem she has created, Mantel uses the phrase "he, Cromwell." Why not just say Cromwell?Unless there is some good reason which I can't imagine, this sort of obfuscation is just lazy writing which disrespects the reader.
Another Goodreads reader suggested that the use of "he" all the time created a closer intimacy with Cromwell.
Mantel left me unsure.I think I've had enough of Wolf Hall, and perhaps other Goodreads readers have had enough of my criticism of what is surely a popular book.
As he reacts to others' reactions of him (many times, he is bemused to see how he is thought of) another layer of characterization is added.This novel is beautifully written with unique descriptions (I love when authors can pull that uniqueness off -- not easy to do!) sprinkled here and there; Cromwell is fascinating (and drawn sympathetically by Mantel) and even surprisingly charming in his interactions with family members and certain others.
I thought I was done with Tudor historical fiction (I've read so much of it through the years) but this book is different.You won't understand the novel's title until later in the book, and I won't explain it here, as I got excited (a rare emotion when reading) seeing the meanings unfold, and I wouldn't want to spoil that for anyone.
“Suppose within each book there is another book, and within every letter on every page another volume constantly unfolding; but these volumes take no space on the desk. Suppose knowledge could be reduced to a quintessence, held within a picture, a sign, held within a place which is no place. Suppose the human skull were to become capacious, spaces opening inside it, humming chambers like beehives.” Thomas Cromwell by Hans Holbein. Cromwell was a great supporter of Holbein and personal gave him m
Cromwell was a great supporter of Holbein and personal gave him many commissions for paintings, but also recommended him to the powerful people he knew.Thomas Cromwell was first and foremost a thinker.
I think if we were to sit in a very quiet room with Thomas Cromwell we might actually be able to hear the humming of his mind like the circuitry of a super computer.
He is always trying to hedge his bets, loaning money at ridiculous low interests to the aristocrats, soothing the relationship between Anne and her sister Mary (Henry’s current favorite bed warmer as he waits for Anne to pop open her corset.), taking care of embarrassing circumstances for other people, forming alliances with the enemies of his friends, and being kind to Henry’s only surviving child (Mary) with Catherine.
– it’s quite a trick to write a long story which everyone knows and still have them queuing round the block) I was scratching my head and thinking that although I’d been hearing so much of and about Cardinal Wolsey (he is the Penn to Thomas Cromwell’s Teller) in the months days hours minutes seconds of his huge demise I still couldn’t figure out exactly why - why - why King Henry turned on him in such fury.
I could never truly feel that the narration was being executed by a male voice, it was as if a woman narrator residing inside a captive male character was telling the story and every time a ‘he’ or 'his' comes along, it resulted in a string of confused stumblings over adjectives before I remembered again (many times) that it is of himself that the narrator is talking about.
The fate of peoples is made like this, two men in small rooms. Forget the coronations, the conclaves of cardinals, the pomp and processions. This is how the world changes: a counter pushed across a table, a pen stroke that alters the force of a phrase, a woman’s sigh as she passes and leaves on the air a trail of orange flower or rose water; her hand pulling close the bed curtain, the discrete sigh of flesh against flesh. Uneasy lies the head that wears the crown…but really, crown-wearers seem
Cromwell is portrayed as a practitioner of 16th century RealPolitik, someone who uses his rapier wit, his power, his capacity for manipulation, his wide knowledge of the world, and his deep intelligence to serve his king.
Cromwell, both the real one and his fictitious doppelganger, is a pretty interesting guy, rising from modest (and, if Mantel does not mislead, abusive) origins, dashing off to soldier for hire, becoming expert in international trade of various sorts, making very useful friends and connections along the way, becoming a lawyer, and with his contact list and rep for discretion, rising as far as a low-born can rise in Tudor England.
It chronicles the life of Thomas Cromwell, and the narrative is focalised through him.
Mantel does not hand you the facts; she tells you Cromwell’s life story, but the rest is up to you.
If you can get over these obstacles, as I did, then what develops is a fantastic portrayal of Tudor England, and Thomas Cromwell’s life.
I love Mantel’s style of writing, and having already read the second book, I know the problems are worked out of it a bit.
But, for this book, my enjoyment was hindered by having to re-read certain passages where the writing was at its extremist.
Well, I can tell you, I read Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel because it won the Book Prize For Fiction in 2009.
By the time I got to the middle of the book, which is a good 600 pages long, I was over it.The main problem with this book was its lack of both character development and plot.
Sadly, this was not the case in Wolf Hall.There were a few things I liked about this book.
In my opinion, Wolf Hall should not have beat The Children's Book for the Booker prize, and I do not recommend it.
BR with Hayat 2.5 StarsThese Tudor memes are amazing. They're worthy of losing your head over.     Dear oh dear where do I begin... I've always been fascinated by the Tudor Dynasty, especially Queen Elizabeth I. And since I'm obsessed with Anne Boleyn, I thought this would be a perfect book for me. It's well-written... but sadly far from perfect. Reading this book was no easy task. Wolf Hall isn't terribly difficult to understand, as some claim. The problem lies with the main character. I have n
BR with Hayat 2.5 StarsThese Tudor memes are amazing.
I've always been fascinated by the Tudor Dynasty, especially Queen Elizabeth I.
And since I'm obsessed with Anne Boleyn, I thought this would be a perfect book for me.
Reading this book was no easy task.
The problem lies with the main character.
If I don't like the main character from the start, I lose interest quickly.
I was not pleased with how Anne was portrayed (my other main complaint about the book).
I don't like the way the author handled her character one bit.
confused.
Confused and gloomy.
me and hil have always had a rocky history.i have read four of her books now, and have only really liked one; beyond black.
this is only my third tudor book (because, yes, i totally read the other boleyn girl), and the malleability of history and the filters through which authors present these people is terribly inconsistent, depending on their own prejudices.
sometimes mary boleyn is a victim, sometimes she is cold and calculating, sometimes she is just a party girl depending on who is telling me the story.
please tell me how to pronounce "chupuys".
Unfortunately I gave up on this book at page 84. I'm really disappointed that I was unable to get into this book as so many have raved about it. I just found the prose exceptionally dense and confusing. At times I was confused as to who was 'speaking' and couldn't follow it.Oh well.....next!
Practicality, drive and natural talent are Cromwell’s greatest features, in history as in Mantel’s narrative, but what also emerges is his humanity.At the height of his prominence at court, Cromwell was painted by the famous portraitist Hans Holbein (the same painter that allegedly painted the ill-fated Anne Boleyn), and in his portrait, Cromwell appears fat, shifty-eyed and unappealing.
Through a series of fortuitous circumstances and simple business savvy, Cromwell becomes a secretary and advisor to the king, becoming enough of a favorite to drag Henry out of his cloistered court to visit Cromwell during a serious illness, a favor the disease-fearing king didn’t even grant to his queens.As fascinating as it is to see Mantel’s imagining of Cromwell’s life at court, it is his home life that gives the most insight and makes him such a compelling character.
And, I'm going to talk about why, but let me start with the caveat that Simon E's review (which convinced me to read this) and also Clif H's and David G's will give you more and better insights into a lot of what makes this book so fabulous, i.e., the nuance and energy of the writing, the detail and precision of it, and - in short - what it's about.'Coz all that is important, but while I cared about it (and especially, the knotty problem of the non-specific third-person, which I *will* comment on shortly), that's not what mattered to me.Thomas Cromwell mattered (matters) to me.
Besides, when I come to judgement I mean to come with a memorandum in my hand: I shall say to my Maker, I have fifty items here; possibly more.‘'I love historical fiction and without a doubt this is one of the best, if not the best, history book I’ve read so far.
This is a book to read slowly, to take it all in, the story, the love and the tragedy, the cruelty of the happenings, the poetry of the words….So I took my time with this book, but also because it’s not an easy to read story.
beautiful writing, I'll take my time and read it slowly...
You don’t know much about Henry VIII except that he was an English king, had a lot of wives and changed the official Church of England so he could bang another woman?
You heard of Thomas Cromwell but you don’t know exactly why he is so important?
As you might have guessed from the title, Wolf Hall is the story of Thomas Cromwell in the 1520’s when he was England cardinal’s right hand.
The writing is beautiful, I found myself many times mesmerized by the author’s talent only to remain dumbfounded 10 pages later because I could not understand what she was talking about.
Why then was Wolf Hall such a slog to get through?For a start Hilary Mantel writes unconventionally in the present tense.
Another instance is the character Thomas Wriotheseley, who is sometimes called "Risley" or even, obscurely "Call-me" (a very early reference to his saying "Call me Risley" near the beginning of the book.) An example running throughout the book is of a nun on the continent who makes prophecies against the king.
Indeed it is almost as if Mantel has used obfuscation as a deliberate way to misinform and disguise who is talking, who the action is about, much as the Tudor times were about misinformation, deception and disingenuousness.
There are facts that we don't ever necessarily learn, or at least can remember learning, that we don't pause to consider.My favorite thing about Wolf Hall is how it turns previous conception of a much discussed period of history on its head, while maintaining complete plausibility.
Mantel almost does too good of a job of making Cromwell likable, but you are completely ready to buy it.
Mantel frequently references the events and it also gives you good context of why the production of a legitimate male heir was deemed such an immediate necessity.)The title Wolf Hall is taken from the estate of the Seymour family, minor characters in the novel.
Wolf Hall is the kind of book that gets better the more you think about it.
Its protagonist is Thomas Cromwell: a villain in A Man for All Seasons but here a man with a family, a career, and a sharp way of thinking.
His feelings towards his family, as portrayed here, make him sympathetic, even likeable.The book introduces all the figures familiar to readers of other Tudor stories, and Mantel is most successful at putting her own stamp on Cromwell, Wolsey, and Henry VIII.
I would like to discover what this book is ultimately about and why it is called Wolf Hall, and I think that will require a rereading.
In 2012, The Observer named it as one of "The 10 best historical novels".Wolf Hall (Thomas Cromwell, #1)Bring Up the Bodies (Thomas Cromwell, #2)The Mirror and the Light (Thomas Cromwell, #3) تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و دوم ماه آگوست سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: تالار گرگ - کتاب اول؛ نویسنده: هیلاری منتل؛ مترجم: کیومرث پارسای؛ تهران، روزگار، 1388؛ چاپ دیگر: سال 1391؛ در 528 ص؛ شابک: 9789643742287 ؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 21 ممترجم: علی اکبر قاضی زاده؛ تهران، تندیس، 1390؛ در 864 ص؛ شابک: 9786001820380؛تالار گرگ داستانی تاریخی اثر نویسنده انگلیسی، هیلاری منتل است که در سال 2009 میلادی منتشر شد.
What an amazing time!Sure, this period has been much-written about, but I love the fresh approach that Hilary Mantel takes in her Wolf Hall novels, which is to tell the story of Anne Boleyn's rise and fall from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell, a low-born lawyer who eventually became a trusted advisor to the king.
I tried to read the novel back in 2010, but at the time I couldn't get past the first fifty pages.
I think the author would be pleased to know that as soon as I finished reading Wolf Hall, I started reading its sequel, Bring Up the Bodies.
In fact, the Wolf Hall title itself, with its allusion to the Latin Homo homini lupus (“Man is wolf to man”) reminds us that the opportunistic Cromwell with his treacherous agenda would fit in quite well in our present dog-eat-dog world.Our editor feels that with his guidance, you could emphasize specific personality traits that would truly resonate among the readers of our business and management titles.
Imagine the lessons to be learned, good and bad, from: » Cromwell’s impressive rise from working-class roots.» The conspicuous loyalty Cromwell showed to Cardinal Wolsey in the face of changing sentiments.
Talk about revisionism; boy does this book ever turn the tables on the two figures.Mantel and her thoroughly researched, beautifully written yet near-exhausting novel eventually won me over.Once I figured out that “he” referred almost always to Cromwell; that the author was attempting to get deep inside Cromwell’s brilliant, calculating mind; that she also was showing how his humble background, abusive blacksmith father and subsequent peripathetic life after fleeing from home helped shape him and make him a self-made man who understood the way of the world; that he suffered his own personal pains first by losing family members to the “sweating sickness” and then by seeing the downfall of his mentor, Cardinal Wolsey; once I discovered that the floating, uncertain present tense narration, even though it lacks momentum, can offer up a sense of intimacy – once I grasped all this, the pieces began to fall into place.My favourite passages are ones like this:One tradesman the same as the next?
So far, what I’ve learned from the Tudors by watching The Tudors is this: Boobs!!That said, it is very well likely that the problem with Hillary Mantel’s Wolf Hall is me.
Wolf Hall tells the story of King Henry VIII, his dalliance with Anne Boleyn, his divorce from Catherine of Aragorn, and his rupture with the Catholic Church.
I also recall Thomas More, from half-watching while half-drunk A Man For All Seasons one night on Turner Classic Movies.Mantel’s twist on this story is to reverse our expectations of some of the major players.
There has been talk of a match between Anne Boleyn's sister Mary, Lady Carey and Cromwell's nephew.
When Anne understands it, she will spit nails.The solution to this puzzle is given us two pages later when Cromwell imparts the news to the bridegroom-as-was:"The king says no.
As a courtesy to him, we should make a bit of an effort too.And finally I'd like to think about what Mantel is doing, what anyone does, writing about the past, long dead and gone.
I got the distinct feeling that, slick as Cromwell was at reading the subtext in his conversations with men, he was constantly wrong-footed by the women.
5 stars !Gosh, I am so sad this book ended but very excited that this is the first of a trilogy.For the first 15% or so of the book I often had to re-read many passages as I found the style of the writing very challenging and did not who was who.
The other characters are vivid and multifaceted.
The story is full of rich description and interesting minutiae.Many people have complained that this booked seemed endless but as for me I wanted more, more and more.Thank you Ms. Mantel for your interpretation of this interesting period in England's History.
This rending apart of his character and historical place might be justified and I certainly think catholic writers need to face up to the fact that Thomas More was of his time and certainly not some sort of enlightened thinker who turned away from torture and cruelty.
Mantel conveniently finishes her story as Anne Boleyn , the woman who Cramner and Cromwell had raised to that position on the orders of the king through lies and the betrayal of the genuine and tragic figure of Katherine of Aragon, has just lost her second child in miscarriage.
Wolf Hall is a historical fiction reader's feast.
Henry the VIII's story, though it has been told, is re-examined through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell, one of his counselors.
It is a life-or-death dance that Cromwell and Wolsey play with King Henry, as the king demands a new wife.
(the Cardinal speaks) "Tell me why you are scowling in that way." (Cromwell) "The people up there say they are going to kill me." "Really?" the cardinal says.
Wolf Hall throws you right into confusion of Henry the VIII's reign.
I'll know next time that if it takes me that long to decide whether to get a book, that it's a sign NOT to get it!I remember reading a review for this book a while ago; there was something in that review that made me not want to read this book.
I was desperate for books, and since it's a nice, thick book, and is doing so well, I picked it up -obviously.I started it today and tried to get into it.
I just could not get into this book at all.I know many people are raving about this book, and again I'm in the minority.
The writing is crisp, deep and unsettling all at the same time.
Every thread and sinew of this novel seems destined to weave into the body of this story's tapestry.
Moore, Cromwell, Henry VIII all become more than characters in this historical fiction.
They become epic myths; giants of time and space.
Mantel is able to stretch and mold her characters into places where they seem to inhabit zones usually reserved for saints and devils.
Mantel gives us both saint AND devil with Moore, Cromwell and Henry VIII.
Seriously, if you haven't read this novel, put down what you are reading NOW and pick it up.
