https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63580.Message_from_Nam
I read this while pregnant with my youngest, and I cried through most of it. Well, about a third of the way through I started crying and didn't stop until the end. Maybe the pregnancy hormones had something to do with it, but I think this would be emotional for anyone to read.Beautiful characters, heartbreaking yet also heartwarming story. I'd read again.
This is the best Danielle Steel book I have read. It is powerful and emotional. The story has captured well the dark side of an ugly war which saw to the physical death of millions of and emotional death to an uncountable number. The characters were made so real that I was instantly connected to them, and over the time with number of rereads, they have become a part of me. I'm no Danielle Steel fan, but this great work really touched my heart and will always hold a place there.
I haven't read many novels by Danielle Steel, but I have to say that Message From Nam is one of the best books I have read - ever! I liked the plot, the dialogue, the characters were very "real", and it was very well written. It also happens to be one of the saddest stories I have ever read, but absolutely worth reading!
Message from Nam!
Message from Nam was by far the best title we had.
We moved a lot of copies that way.When my very good goodreads friend found it at our school's used book sale, my bluff was called and I had to acknowledge that I'd never read it.I learned a surprising amount of detail about the Viet Cong tunneling system from this book.
Who knew!Now I can recommend this book having read it.Also: I am reading Life on the Mississippi by Mark Twain - I have to say that Message from Nam has the edge.
Again, who knew?
I love Mark Twain and would be happy read Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn every year.
But Life on the Mississippi is all over the place.
The book touches on many historically significant events of the 1960s-1970s, in addition to the Vietnam war...
Paxton Andrews suffers so many unimaginable losses throughout the course of Message from Nam and I felt each one intensely.
She ends up becoming a journalist, and after the war first robs her of a loved one, she goes to Vietnam for answers.
As one soldier tells Paxton in the book, "We leave Vietnam feeling like we're heroes, but when we get home we're treated like criminals".
There are multiple love stories featured in this book and each one felt real, touched my heart, and broke it too.
I na exkurzi do světa Danielle Steel jsem se vypravil..;-) 60. léta, od smrti JFK po hippies až válku ve Vietnamu...
review to follow xxx
This book was intense, . compelling.It made me cry.It was exponentially frustrating and heartwrenching.It left me emotionally exhausted, and ultimately relieved.In other words, "Message From Nam" captured perfectly that time and place for which there are no adequate words, the 1960's, Vietnam, and a collision of political and sociocultural events that swept the dreams and hopes and lives and loves of hundreds of thousands of Americans into the storms of war.
I actually read this book years ago, but I recently found an old copy of it in a storage bin in the basement and ended up reading it again. I forgot how moving it was. Of course, being a Danielle Steele novel, there's some trashy romance and whatnot, but the bigger story--the story of how war tears apart relationships, love's slow death and then love re-discovered under seemingly impossible circumstances--is very touching. The ending is predictable, but still very sweet.
This was a fantastic book. I found it to be a very interesting history of the Vietnam War, along with a wonderful romance novel. This is one of my favorites by Danielle Steel. The story was not predictable, as are many romance novels, and I feel I was not only entertained, but I learned a lot about history. The characters were all very likable. The story seemed so real that I became misty eyed reading it. I heartily recommend reading this one.
I read this book three times and now have a desire to pick it up yet once again. As a child of the 70's with a brother who served in Nam, this book gave me a glimpse of what it might of been like. If I had only been older, I may of been inspired to follow in Paxton's footsteps to be a photo journalist.
This story brought to life the awful things that happened over there.Losing my uncle made me want to read this book,I felt like I could understand the lose of so many lives.The ones who came home were never the same,and for those of us too young to live it.I just say thank you.
This was a really great heart wrenching story.. I loved it.. I would say anyone who knew anyone or was there in Nam to read this... A tale of love won & lost.. How a woman over comes the loss of love & moves on.. Please read this book.. I recommend it to everyone..
My favorite book of hers!
This was my first Danielle Steel novel and it started my collection. I cried all through it and my friends wondered why i couldn't put such a sad book down. It was worth every moment.
OMG!! Una historia al mejor estilo Danielle Steel, sin dudas dentro de las mejores de la autora.Una historia desgarradora, de esas que son imposibles de leer sin derramar lagrimas. Sin embargo (y esto es lo que amo de Danielle Steel) a medida que la historia avanza y ya estas llorando a moco tendido, con un nudo en el estomago, y el corazón destrozado en mil pedazos, la trama siempre tiene esa sensación de esperanza que hace que sigas leyendo, esa luz al final del camino que termina sanando las heridas y logra que termines el libro con una sonrisa.
I don't read Danielle Steel anymore, but this book has stuck with me for years. I read it in college and still remember having my heart breaker wen the Mom makes one of the most difficult choices a parent would ever have to. This is one of my favorites of hers.
By far this is one of her best books. It will make you laugh and cry and all around put you on an emotional rollercoaster. It's full of love and very touching. An awesome read.
One of my very favourites, learned so much about the vietnam war in this one, Danielles books are very very well researched and are really quite educational
Makes me cry every time I read it, but it's an amazing book. I don't usually like Danielle Steel, but I love this book!
I'm surprised at how much I enjoyed this book. I only wish it contained more stories about the war and the soldiers. other than that it was a great book.
It was a really good book. I would have liked more details at the end but it is good if you want to learn a little about the Vietnam war.
Better than her usual books. This book was fiction but laced with fact from Vietnam, which made it much nicer.
after reading this book i wanted to find out more about vietnam, good book
This was one of my favorite DS novels ever! It was a pretty good made for TV movie as well!
Hands down the best Danielle Steel novel I have read. The story draws the reader in and makes the characters come to life.
Cried my pea pickin' eyes out. I will not label this mindless smut.
Wartime Upclose and Personal. Message from Nam is a story during the time of the Vietnamese War. It is a masterpiece of historical fiction that leaves the reader enthralled and captured in the personal story of a young correspondent. Her loves and personal losses give the reader a close eye witness view of Nam at its best and its worst.The climax leaves us still believing in rare miracles as we dry our tears. I assure you that you will never be sorry you read Message from Nam. Kudos to Danielle Steel, author extraordinaire.Janet T. Neiss
The book is focused on a journalist throughout the war and it's tragedies, which is really heart breaking and tragic. At times, it is most depressing especially since the main character, nearly loses almost everyone close to her. But it also shows that, even with all that she's been through, she doesn't lose hope, never gives up on life and stays strong through it all - that should definitely teach us something!
An emotional roller-coaster & I loved every minute of it...I was swept away by the contrasting characters; their spectrum of love, kindness, and unknown cruelty. The fortitude Pax shows throughout the the story is remarkable; as are the twists and turns that bring this story so seamlessly together. After some breathing time away from this book, I would gladly become enchanted by it again and again!
