https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58514.Indecent_Exposure
There must have been something in the air or water back then since Indecent Exposure, British author Tom Sharpe’s second novel set in South Africa featuring a Pythonesque send-up of the country’s police force, published in the same year.The book’s two main characters (and they are characters, you can be sure of that!) are the top ranking police officers from Piemburg, small South African capital city of Zululand: chief of police Kommandant van Heerden, a puffed up buffoon who fantasizes he’s a proper English gentleman and Luitenant Verkramp, a sadistic, power-hungry nitwit.
This book is the sequel to Riotous Assembly and really keeps up the scathing and farcical attacks on the Apartheid regime.
It is Tom Sharpe at what i think his most cutting, as through the jokes and ridiculous situations you can his views on such a deplorable system and the society that acted as if it was totally acceptable.
Okay the world has moved on, Apartheid in its public form no long exists (although we all know it hides behind other names and other faces now) in fact the Africa depicted in these books has now be consigned to the history books, yet still it is a fun read while reminding you of a much important message.
This hilarious depiction of the stupidity and brutality of the old South African Police is one of the funniest books I have read in quite a while. It will certainly never be picked as the assigned book for Afrikaaner Pride Week (and the Enlish don't come out so great either), but it is one of those laugh-out-loud funny books that you should think twice before reading it in public, lest the folks around you think that you are a bit touched.
Wet your pants funny! Its been to long since we have been able to make fun of apartide.
A me è risultato più che altro irritante, salvato solo dall'interessante ambientazione, il Sudafrica flagellato dall'apartheid.Al tempo della pubblicazione, inizio anni '70, deve aver colpito e divertito molto il pubblico, per il coraggio nell'affrontare un argomento delicato come quello del regime sudafricano.
Ma ciò che era accettabile mezzo secolo fa, oggi risulta disturbante: cambia la società, cambia la mentalità - non sono più i good old times rimpianti dai personaggi del libro.
Starò scivolando nella mentalità buonista oggi ben diffusa, ma non ho trovato particolarmente divertente un libro che gioca con razzismo, brutalità delle forze dell'ordine, nazionalismo esasperato, stupro come prassi accettabilissima, omosessualità da barzelletta.
This novel is what you get when you combine racism, police and electro-shock therapy in South Africa.
Hilarious. Satire re the South African police that is full of innuendos that had me laughing harder than I have in a long time. This is his followup to Riotous Assembly. I look forward to reading that book in the future.
This is really good satire. And the story construction is excellent.
Talk about “black humor” (or not) this book is truly funny. It would not have been funny when it was first published and apartheid existed in South Africa, but I found it hilarious.After reading the efforts of the Lt. to bug his bosses house, I was literally laughing out loud. That sequence was one of the best I have read in some time and it set the pattern for the rest of the book.I recommend it to folks who can enjoy great writing without taking the subject matter seriously.
At one time is probably was the height of yuks to have white policemen raping black women turned into flaming gays through shock treatment, but it falls with a resounding thud today.
I always find books written from around the 50s to the 80s particularly hard to forgive what is of their times, precisely because it is (relatively) close to our own (I was born in the late 60s).
If this book was written in the 19th century I'd be far more forgiving or at least able to accept it as a different time.
Salvando las distancias con el libro de Toole, cuyo humor negro es mucho más fino e irónico, Sharpe logra meterte en una aventura dignísima de las mejores historias de humor absurdo y alocado que puedas echarte a la cara.
Con ese ambiente de comedia negra y un refinado humor inglés, las risas están más que aseguradas con esta obra, que si peca de algo es de políticamente incorrecta, y ahí es donde reside buena parte de su grandiosidad.
Cada personaje es una parodia en sí mismo, cada situación más absurda que la anterior y el ingenio de este hombre para hilar acontecimientos que te conducen a un éxtasis de carcajadas es sencillamente magnífico.
Black Humor.
That term is redefined by this Tom Sharpe novel.
Set in apartheid SA, the quest for perfect White SA by Lt. Verkamp, the bumbling Kommadent van Hardeen's dream to be treated as true blueblood British & the maniacal Dr. vom Bliemstein's passion for turning any ordinary situation into a psychartist lesson leaves the reader in splits.Tom Sharpe managed to keep in splits while simultaneously shaking my head and asking myself can this really happen?
Sometimes a bit over the top, the basic understanding a person must have before reading this book is to keep common sense out of the door.Rip-roaring comedy.
It's hard to think in this day and age that someone in the 1970's could write a comedy about apartheid in South Africa. This is a masterful piece of satire that neatly skewers the absolute ridiculous and twisted nature that was the South African state.Written while Sharpe was at the peak of his powers this novel is laugh out loud hilarious. Though I suspect it'll have more impact with older readers - those who were able to observe the farce and disgrace that was South Africa's apartheid regime
Interesting recent discovery. Somewhere between Benny Hill and Evelyn Waugh, Sharpe might not be the greatest novelist but he is an amazing comedian and satirist. Sure, the humor leans towards the coarse and vulgar at times, but this fits the small-minded yet egomaniac characters in the book perfectly. Their sheer backwardness and ignorant nationalist white-supremacist thinking can't work anywhere else than in a society where stupid rules.
Exploding ostriches!!! Amazing
Very funny follow up to Riotous Assembly. Totally not PC
Comedy is somwhar wry. There maybe some satire. Wasn't as funny as I expected. More a story like book with some hidden satire. Probably people in those parts will get it
Hilarious... worthy of film making ... ingenious !
I read Wilt a couple of years ago so I already knew that I liked Tom Sharpe's writing.I often find t
In Indecent Exposure loopt alles lekker uit de hand als een Zuid-Afrikaanse politiecommissaris er alles aan doet om bij de Engelse stiff upper lip elite, ook maar een stelletje bekrompen onmensen die Afrikaners primitief vinden, aanvaardt te worden en tijdelijk zijn macht overdraagt aan een commissaris (luitenant Verkramp, haha) die voor niets terugschrikt om indruk te maken op zijn chefs.
Pure ontspanning is dit, sitcom doorspekt met taalgrapjes (o.a. omdat de Afrikaners de Engelse uitdrukkingen niet altijd helemaal begrijpen) en alles in een vlot, witty Engels.
Als extra heb ik dankzij dit boek ontdekt dat de voetbalterm 'spionkop', de staantribunes achter de goals, overgewaaid is van Engeland, waar het eerst in die betekenis gebruikt werd.
This is an amazingly funny book, satarising the apartheid regime of the old South Africa, ultra-rightist authoritarian politics, faddish scientific reconditioning (a la "Clockwork Orange") and snobbery in general.
Very few books have made me laugh out loud when reading it alone, and this one managed it.
Much of the humour comes from the snobbishly pro-British lead character's attempts to ingratiate himself into a group that are obsessed with the work of the British "clubland" author Dornford Yates.
Readers not familiar with Yates' novels will miss many of the otherwise hilarious jokes, and even, probably, the main point of the story.
Kommandant Van Eerden thinks he now has a British heart (he doesn't, the transplant surgery re-implanted his own heart) and goes off to spend two weeks in the country with the Dornford Yates Club, a group of British eccentrics given to potent cocktails, cross dressing and reenacting scenes from the works of The Master.This leaves the rabidly racist (better dead than a black in your bed), rabidly anti-communist (better dead than Red) Luitenant Verkramp in charge.
And he has a sex crazed female psychiatrist assisting him in using electroshock aversion therapy on a couple of hundred Konstabels stop them from wanting to rape black women.
I first read this some thirty-odd years ago and found it to be one of the funniest books I had ever read.
Having learned of the untimely death of Tom Sharpe, I dived into the depths of my pile of paperbacks and retrieved my copy, somewhat worse for age.
The paper may have aged but the wit and humour haven't and it is still as funny as I remembered it.
If you haven't read it, get hold of a copy as soon as you can.
There can be no greater tribute to Tom Sharpe than the tears of laughter running down one's cheeks.
Set during apartheid and ripe with wry British humour coupled with lusty yet not raunchy jokes, this book had me laughing out loud in the middle of shared cab rides, train rides, and office lunch hours.
You may think some of the jokes are racist or sexist on the face of it but they are really not and if you take offence to it you are probably not getting the author's sarcasm and satire at all.I haven't read the preceding story, "The Riotous Assembly" so some of the jokes were lost on me.
>This was given to me in a mixed box of books.I found this really very funny in some places, Clockwork Orange meets Benny Hill type humour.
The author got booted out of South Africa for writing this book, so if you are easily offended or the type of person who wants Enid Blyton re-written because of the 'sexism' this is definitely not for you.
Possibly if you are female, male, anti-gay, pro-gay, work in mental health, live in South Africa, like horses, have any kind of real knowledge about the Boer War, this book is probably not for you.
It was my introduction to Tom Sharpe, after which I read everything he'd written at that point and up until the early 90's.
Quite frankly, I found him hilarious.This was another of my Hay-on-Wye bargains and I wasn't sure whether, in these enlightened, post-apartheid, politically-correct days, I'd find the book as funny now as I did as a 14 year old.
It was still a funny read, and not surprisingly, there was stuff I'd missed first time around, like a lot of the dark humour.
Need to save up the 5 stars.
This is great, but not as "must read" as riotous assembly.There are many laugh out loud moments, but some it's are a bit formulaic, and I didn't think the return of Konstabel Els really worked.
He was a brilliant invention previously, but here it feels like putting in Els because he was funny last time, but not really having anything to do.But Verkamp's descent from straight odd into total lunacy is wonderful.
As always Tom Sharpe realises that you cannot underestimate the stupidity and the humorous outcomes that comes from the misunderstandings that come from ignorance.
It's so sarcastic and the irony well hidden between the lines that you have to watch out for it and give the reading your full attention.
The first time I read it I knew nothing about the cultural background so I had to do quite a bit of exploring.
It's quiet a difficult read, so maybe I'll come back to the novel in a couple of years.
I'm really interested, though, because I've heard a bit about the plot and it sounds WOW hahaha.
Very, very funny. One of Sharpe's best efforts. Sharpe has the ability to use English and all of its crudities and shape it into a 'laugh out loud' satirical farce of epic proportions. It is no surprise to learn that he was "asked to leave" South Africa after this and 'Riotous Assembly' were published!If you don't like crude language, don't read Sharpe's works. If you love the satirical use of bad language, then Sharpe is a master - he was a professor of English, and his skill with the language shows his complete mastery of it.
Laugh out loud on the train funny.Dribble of wee funny.Aching jaw funny.Uncomfortable, disturbed, looking half-away from the page funny.Tom Sharpe is simply one of the funniest writers I have ever read, and I've read a lot of books.A master of the art of schadenfreude - the art of laughing at someone else's misfortune.So what more can I say?Highly recommended.
