https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112321.If_Morning_Ever_Comes
But I agree with the New York Times critic who, when reviewing the book, used words like “triumphantly alive” and “phenomenal.”Tyler is phenomenal.Her knowledge of people; her obsession with family dynamics; her ability to see psychology in physical gestures; her quirky sense of humour; the distinctness of her characters’ voices; her warmth and compassion – they’re all present already.
Gradually Ben Joe, the man of the family (and don’t worry, Tyler will get to the father’s absence in time), finds a way to do that.
As he tells a crotchety octogenarian early on in the book, he can’t seem to "get anywhere permanent." Over the next 200 pages, Tyler will suggest how this feeling comes about by showing you things, never telling them.
This is Anne Tyler's first novel.
Ben Joe Hawks is studying law at Columbia, though not because he necessarily wants to be a lawyer.
He feels worried about all those females.
That was also the theme of that disappointing Robert Penn Warren novel Flood I read recently.
I have a soft spot for first novels.
It is like looking at a baby and trying to picture how that individual will grow and become to be.I had a soft spot for young Ben Joe Hawks.
As he tries to knit his past into his present, I felt all those females should have worried about him!
I was surprised to find that Tyler had "disowned" her first two novels but I'm always game to try so shrugged it off and added it to my Goodreads shelf where a long list of two starred reviews popped up beneath it.
I thoroughly enjoyed this portrait of family life and the feeling of disconnection and discontent a lot of people experience of leaving home for the first time.
Life is pointless, there is no beginning, middle and end, this was a snapshot of a few days in Ben Joe's life not his whole life.
Oh my goodness...one of the most pointless books I've ever read, with an irritatingly disconnected main character who doesn't seem to understand anyone or anything in life, including himself.
I never understood why he did or said anything, and he always seems to be in some sort of stupor that makes you feel like you're in a cloud yourself reading it, just grasping for something that makes sense!
I couldn't relate to a thing in it and I'm not even sure why I finished it!
Now that I know it was her first novel, I'm a bit more understanding.
Just a weird book.
My mother (a babyboomer) introduced me to Tyler's books when I was 15. I've devoured them ever since. I read them before my marriage, while I was married, during my separation, and after my divorce. I've read some of her books 3 & 4 times. Screw those long winded writers of yesteryear that my private liberal arts college told me was brilliant: Tyler takes the cake! She's the woman (in my ridiculous opinion) that John Irving should have married. She would have eaten him alive--so, maybe not.
Anne Tyler’s debut novel tracks the self-realization of a young man whose character struggles to negotiate a balance between self-identity and family identity.Tyler's characteristic wit and eccentricity of characters is shown right off the bat even in this first novel."Seems like you are always loving the people that fly away from you, Ben Joe, and flying away from the people that love you. But if you've decided, this once, to do something the other way, I'll be happy to agree."
In a recent New Yorker article Martin Amis wrote “When we say that we love a writer’s work, we are always stretching the truth: what we really mean is that we love about half of it.” I don’t agree with that as a general rule but it sums up my feelings about Anne Tyler pretty well.
We see them from the outside (like people in real life) so we don’t know these characters intimately but they still come across as real.
I like the way that Tyler gives us a slice of these characters lives without revealing all the details of their pasts or concluding too much about their futures.
The book left me wanting to know more about their lives both before and after this story.
The author has definitely improved as a writer since she wrote this one.
This is about Ben Joe and his family.
The family of 6 girls and 1 boy (Ben Joe), Mom and Grandma, is quirky at best.
Some of the interactions amongst characters in this book are just silly (for a lack of a better word).
It was more like a picture in time that ended abruptly.
Tyler has definitely developed as a writer, she is one of my favorites.
I am glad I had the opportunity to read this book.
I'm not sure what the overall message was supposed to be or if we're supposed to think the course that Ben Joe takes at the end of the book is a good idea (I certainly don't), but this has all those wonderful small moments and shrewd observations of family life that I read Anne Tyler for. It's quite something to see the beginnings of her style and themes in this, her first book, written at age 22.
I am starting over with one of my most favorite authors. I read all of her books before, some a long time ago, so I am starting from her first novel with this one. No one can create a character, a family system like Anne Tyler. Loved this story again. I had forgotten most of the storyline and enjoyed it afresh again.
This is Anne Tyler's first book, and her quirky style is already evident. I enjoyed meeting Ben Joe and his family of six sisters plus his mother and grandmother. Some people are born to write, and while the plot and characters here are not as intricate and multi-faceted as in her later books, we can see that Tyler had found her voice already.
Ben Joe got down on his hands and knees beside his bed and began fishing under it for his shoes with an unstrung tennis racket."Or this one, also redeeming: "You ever seen one of those toothbrushes with a bird on the end?
It was when she was in high school and had taken to wearing red dresses and gold hoop earrings and flinging that black hair of hers around." And then he goes on to describe how comforting it had been for him, as a college student, to hear his sister blowing on her toothbrush in an absent-minded way.Maybe that's the key to why I didn't fall for this novel the way I've fallen for other books by Anne Tyler.
2.5 stars really.I am a huge Anne Tyler fan and I love most of her books. This one though was a bit of disappointment.....it was an okay read. It took me a very long time to finish it as I didn't really felt like picking it up. May be it was this book or because I was in this dreadful reading slump. But I had picked this book thinking that since it is from one of my favourite authors it would help me get back into reading which unfortunately did not happen. So not one of Tyler's best books.
Her first novel, didn't even know when I started it. loved the characters as always with Anne Tyler. Ben Joe my favorite, his attachment to family and home but yet his pull to break free.
It's more like an intense character study of a southern family and the town they inhabit.
he leaves his law studies in NYC to make sure his 6 sisters, mother and grandma are okay back home in North Carolina.
For good measure there is an old man dying in town who his grandmother regrets not marrying, and a girl who Ben Joe decides he really loves and needs to bring home with him to New York City.
L'autrice ci racconta la quotidianità di una famiglia numerosa, squarci di passato che riaffiorano attraverso i ricordi e ci affezioniamo a poco a poco ai personaggi, così ben delineati che ci sembra a volte di vivere le vicende raccontate.Un romanzo leggero e piacevole, che ti riconcilia con le cose semplici della vita e alla fine della lettura ci dispiace un po' lasciare questa casa, che per un po' di tempo è diventata quasi la nostra casa, e chiudere la porta per lasciare i personaggi che abbiamo conosciuto, e amato, tra le pagine del libro.
I finished this bad boy on my Ty-Da baseball trip.I heart Anne Tyler, and she's one of my favorite authors.
This was her first published book.
It's that and it really hurts that the main character isn't very interesting or appealing.Hey, Anne says it best.QOTD"The reviews I don't remember, except that one person said the book was 'about as exciting as a cucumber sandwich,' which hurt my feelings at the time but now seems apt."- Anne Tyler, interview at the end of "If Morning Ever Comes"Apt, indeed!Not to worry.
(much better) Review coming soon!yow, bill
This is an interesting read if you've read later Anne Tyler. It's her first published novel with all its characters more emotionally available and explained somehow than in any of her later books. And although she has been quoted as saying she's no fan of this early work, and although her later novels are undoubtedly more polished, precise and sophisticated, this one is like a diamond in the rough and well worth a read if you're at all interested in the novelist and her artistic progression.
The last book I read by Anne Tyler was "Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant" when I was in seventh grade. It was great to reaquaint myself with Ms. Tyler's work. I enjoyed the inner-workings of Ben Joe Hawkes, being an introvert myself. The craziness of his family was authentic and clear, basically anyone who has a family can find something in this work.
I read this back when I was a teen-ager, and AT's style really caught me, though I didn't get her themes then at all. I still love her gentle style (so low-key)and now sometimes get her themes: the power of family, the powerlessness of love, the longing for independence from both. . . .
someone reviewed the book saying it was as exciting as a cucumber sandwich. i like cucumber sandwiches. they're crispy, refreshing, and especially nice with cream cheese and tomato. Not in my top five, but i'm happy i read it & I would read more of her work.
How does Anne Tyler make me want to read about regular families? I can never quite name what it is about her books that hook me, but this one has done it. Reading her first novel for a "Reading Bingo" I am playing at work. Loved it.
I love this author, she does wonderful character studies. This was her first book, which I somehow missed. She was in her 20's when she wrote it. Excellent!
Ben Joe Hawkes had a flock of sisters, a mother with a reputation for being cold-hearted, and an eccentric grandmother.
Ben Joe, aged 25, can't decide if he wants to take care of them all, or just run away and never look back.
When he's at home, he wants to go away, but when he's gone - to law school in NYC - he can't stop worrying and wondering what's going on at home.This one is a bit of a puzzle.
Ben Joe just sort of drifts through the book while his sisters - and life - swirl around him.
Just for fun, I'm reading all of Anne Tyler, beginning from the beginning - and this book is the beginning.Published the year after her college graduation, the novel is certainly a beginner's effort.
The themes are youthful, maybe even a bit naive, but then she was youthful herself.
Just a bit of her talent for character sketch is showing through.I look forward to observing the growth and change that is sure to be evident as I read on.
I note that the edition of If Morning Ever Comes is one that contains a list of the two books that come next - indicating that after three novels, Tyler was on her way.
I liked this book for multiple reasons. Aside from being well written it is an old book so I stepped back in time. This book showcases the late 1950's, early 1960's through vibrant characters and the sweetness of a small town upbringing as seen mostly through Ben Joe's eyes. It is filled with love without being romantic. One can reread this book multiple times and always find some new kernel to ponder and enjoy.
The first book that Anne Tyler ever wrote but the second one to be published. By her own admission she was surprised that this book was ever published but I was happy that it was. Tyler has the amazing ability to take ordinary lives and weave stories around them. The book is a good and quick read. I liked reading about this Southern family with its many parts. This is an author that I will continue to revisit.
3.6***This is a novel about coming home and whether you ever really can come back to the place you grew up after living away has changed your perceptions. Ben Joe returns to his hometown in North Carolina for a break from Columbia law school searching for the family ties that could bind him there. The delightfully described large family of sisters each seem to run together indistinctly as they probably really do in large families and Tyler deftly weaves a slice of life that enraptures.
3.5 starsGreat writing, as usual, and enjoyed the story, but towards the end I got a feeling of despair..., although I'm sure that was just me. Ben Joe seemed so disconnected... I felt as lost as I imagined Ben Joe to feel, but I think at the end AT wanted the reader to believe that he and Shelley will live "happily ever after", that all will work out fine. Still a big AT fan.
Not quite sure what to say. Um, will be interesting to see how the ladies feel at book club. It was short, it had tons and tons of information new and old (past). Ben Joe and his 6 sisters, grandma and mom sure lived an eventful life. Locals all said the girls were wild. Read it, let me know what you think!!
