https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20749.Study_Bible
Always "still reading".... :)
Phew, it took a year, but I finally finished the entire Bible.
Back in January, I decided to take the plunge and do something that I'd always wanted to - a reading challenge through the year to finish the whole Bible.
To see references to Jesus Christ all through the Old Testament, now that was something amazing.
But I could also see why so many were thrilled that He had finally come, after witnessing the amazing events of His life and the absolute compassion had/has for them/us.
More and more, especially after reading Revelations, am I grateful that Jesus gave us a way out.
He dies in the middle, but He comes back at the end. I believe there will be a sequel that will be better than the first. Can't wait.
I'm not just giving this 5 stars because it's the Holy Word of God (which it is, and thus Perfect) -- but this particular version is quite wonderful for the intellectual seeking to read the Bible without needing battle garb.The preface outlines, quite clearly, how the entire translation was pursued, how every nuance, confusion, and controversy is clearly detailed and indicated in the footnotes.There is a deep concordance, and the footnotes on each page is at least 30% of the page. It's a wonderful version for thought, study, and intellectual investigation.My current personal Bible is a leather-bound NIV Study Bible.
John 5:39You study the Scriptures diligently because you think that in them you have eternal life. These are the very Scriptures that testify about me,(Jesus said).
This was a goal that I have never finished, but this was the year! It was daunting, but I did it! If you’ve never read through the entire bible, I challenge you to! Find a bible reading challenge that works for you and stick to it! I promise you won’t ever regret it.
B-asic I-nstructions B-efore L-eaving E-arth"The Bible contains the mind of God, the state of man, the way of salvation, the doom of sinners, and the happiness of believers.
Read it to be wise, believe it to be safe, and practice it to be holy.
Heaven is opened, and the gates of Hell disclosed.
Christ is its grand subject, our good its design, and the glory of God its end.
It is a mine of wealth, a paradise of glory, and a river of pleasure.
It is given you in life, will be opened in the judgment, and will be remembered forever.
I read through the Old Testament in this version, but for the New I went fleeing back to King James. I very much enjoyed reading all of the Revelation on Christmas Day in the morning.
It would seem that even the most extraordinary tales of the old testamnet (or, Pentateuch, as it should be rightfully referred to) are given the utmost in historical legitimacy, making a true, objective evaluation nearly impossible.Rife with allegorical teachings and spiritual revelation, the NIV Bible veers from the matters at hand and, as is traditional, focuses instead on the glorification and triumph of the Lord's 'chosen peoples,' and, as anyone with a modicom of spiritual insight easily recognizes, really embellishes the sanctity of the identity of Isreal as the standard-bearer for divinity.
GREATEST BOOK EVER!
This book is filled with all sorts of stories about God's AWSOME LOVE for us and how we should strive to live this life that God has given us.
When you read it straight through, so many thing make so much more sense than they did before.
For instance, there are many references in the New Testament that are from the Old Testament; and when you have read everything before that point, you think, "Oh, I remember this reference!" This is such an amazing book and I am truely thankful to have it.
What can you say! The New International Version is by far the easiest to read. And of course, this is the "Greatest Story Ever Told" ....
Wonderful translation!!
But if you think about it God had all of eternity past to plan and to get it right.
If you plan on reading the Bible all the way through, be careful not to get bogged down in Leviticus.
If you are a Christian, I would highly recommend compiling your own doctrinal position based on your own comprehensive study of the Bible as opposed to blindly accepting religious positions, no matter how widely accepted they may be.Some of the great dangers of the Bible would be the narrow-minded, blind followers that misquote scripture and use it out of context to back up their own personal or political agendas.
I read a study Bible recently that used letters for cross-referencing and numbers for footnotes, so it was very easy to find exactly what the editors intended to highlight.
The editors have three small icons that correspond to (I'm paraphrasing because I don't have the book in front of me) "Ideas that are helpful for growth as a Christian," "Ideas that are helpful for character development as a Christian," and "Ideas that reflect modern archaeology." While I like the visuals of an icon-coded list of notes, I don't see the point here.
Finished fourth cover-to-cover reading of the Bible, this time the NIVersion.
This time took about eighteen months.While I don’t recommend that for anyone--certainly not some arbitrary read-it-in-a-year challenge, it’s good to read straight through from Genesis to Revelation once in a lifetime.
Notes from third reading: This was the second version of the Bible I read all the way through.I was then in my 30s.
It may a lot more sense, but my life made a lot less (since I'd read it through in my teens).
There's the Holy Spirit.")The notes with this version are so good they're a distraction.
I have always wanted to read the Bible from cover to cover as long as I can remember.
Thanks to a daily schedule I found online, I was able to read a little bit each day and it went by pretty easily.
I really enjoyed reading it.
It is a LOT different than just skipping around at church or during devotionals.
Such as, there are a lot of specifications and measurements that seem to take up entire books.
There is a lot that you lose by skipping around that you get to enjoy while reading cover to cover.
I appreciated the study notes, so when I was confused about something in the passage, I was able to look to the bottom of the page for some help in understanding.What Pastor Chris says is true, the Bible is not written to us, but it is written for us.
Today is much different than Bible times, and I appreciate the assistance from the study portion of the Bible to better understand what I'm reading and apply it to my life.
I received this NIV Study Bible as a gift from Harley and Barbara Parsons (my parents-in-law) in 1986. I have read it in its entirety twice. I have probably read the New Testament dozens of times. This is the Bible I use for every day reading and reference. After almost thrity years it's pretty worn.I like the language of the NIV. While other versions may make better claims to literal accuracy, the NIV is readable. The not footnotes of this version identify and discuss the Hebrew and Greek behind the text.It has served well. A most excellent read.
Helps for anything. :) even if you want to know what to wear although I don't recommend the styles or fashion women used in those times. :) LOVE THIS BOOK, LOVE GOD, he'll love you back. just reading excerpts of this will help you day to day. specially this one since it has a study and will give you contextual information right before each book. :) - it has helped me, hope it helps you too :)
RE-REVIEWBasically this is a relatively new translation of a two thousand year (+) old text that some people believe is a foundation for morality, government, society, personal experience, and an authority over the traditions of science, thought, and literature. Why? Because it says so. End of question. Next...
One of the best books I've ever read and continue to read. I have several versions of bibles that have made a difference in my life but this is THE best study bible.
Will read it again, and again, and again until I die. Because it's the greatest story ever told.
uhh stuff..
I learn a lot from this book, every time I read it!
Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod banned the 2011+ NIV study bible so I bought this old school version.
Keep this with me at all times. Had to add it to my booklist. =)"Sanctify them by the truth, your WORD is truth." John 17:17
The difference lies in translation philosophy, and I really enjoyed reading through the easier-to-read NIV language this year using the Tabletalk Bible Reading below (link: https://s3.amazonaws.com/ligonier-pub...).
The Tabletalk plan was nice in that it offered a day each week for catch up, and had one OT reading and one NT reading scheduled each day.
This plan, coupled with the YouVersion app, which allowed me to listen to audio Bible when I needed to catch up on reading, was a really nice pace.
It took me through the whole Bible in a year, but not at such a fast pace that it couldn't be enjoyed.
Not my favorite translation.
Leviticus is difficult, but still has a lot of great stuff.
For most people living before the nineteen eighties, the King James Version of The Bible was the authorized text of Christians and other Western religions relying on historical Hebrew texts.
Unlike other modified English versions of The Bible, the NIV version does follow the King James Version accurately, but is easier to read and offers a more functional translation for twenty-first century readers.
For instance, the introduction to the book of Genesis is broken up into the headings: Title, Background, Author and date of writing, Theme and message, Literary features, and Outlines.
