https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87424.Tintin_in_the_Land_of_the_Soviets
Tintin au pays des Soviets = Tintin in the Land of the Soviets (Tintin, #1), HergéTintin in the Land of the Soviets (French: Tintin au pays des Soviets) is the first volume of The Adventures of Tintin, the comics series by Belgian cartoonist Hergé.
The story tells of young Belgian reporter Tintin and his dog Snowy, who are sent to the Soviet Union to report on the policies of Joseph Stalin's Bolshevik government.
Hergé continued The Adventures of Tintin with Tintin in the Congo, and the series became a defining part of the Franco-Belgian comics tradition.
Despite suffering from a lack of any cohesive plot, poor art (compared to later entries) and political naiveté, Tintin in the land of the Soviets is still a worthwhile read for Tintin completists.
Even so, it’s not a book I would ever recommend to first time Tintin readers.
I would suggest reading it along with a companion work like Tintin: Herge and His Creation, which explains the troubled publication history and the influences prevalent in the author’s life at the time.
Well, this was first published in 1930, right around when Russian revolution had taken place and formation of Soviet of Russia was on it's initial stages.
So maybe this is a general idea of what people around the world felt of what is happening in Russia.
This part has to be read with a grain of salt.What I most enjoyed in this book was the thoughts of Snowy and the conversations that Tintin has with Snowy.
For me snowy was the most fun to read and I actually had some laugh out loud moments on reading Snowy's thoughts.
Lo cierto es que es poco más que eso, acompañada además de un dibujo bastante rudimentario, en blanco y negro, que está muy lejos de la estética de los álbumes posteriores.
Pero la labor periodística se verá amenazada por los servicios secretos, que no pueden permitir que se cuente lo que está pasando allí.
La historia (¡Por la perilla de Lenin!) es poco más que una sucesión de persecuciones, atentados, torturas y peleas, y como aventura carece de interés, aunque desde luego como curiosidad no tiene precio.
It can be an odd experience to look at the early work of an author (and artist) who later proves to be innovative and masterful.
The work here is sou rough, the plotting so silly, and the characters unrecognizable to fans of the later series.But then, no artist emerges into the world fully formed, and even Moebius had his awkward stage.
In this fisrt story, Tintin himself is less the clever, charming figure of the later books.
But anyone looking for a genuine Tintin story is not going to get one, here.
OMG! I never knew Tintin was such a right-wing fanatic! No wonder this book was never published in India!
از نظر گرافیکی، هنوز پخته نشده بود که چیز طبیعیای هست چون اولین قسمتاش بود. از نظر داستانی هم به قدرتِ بقیه قسمتها نبود ولی باز هم جذاب و جالب بود. فرار کردناش از موقعیتها گاهی تخیلی میشد و مثل قسمتهای دیگه هوشمندانه نبود.تمام قصه این بود که میره شوروی و هی بدبیاری میاره و ازشون فرار میکنه و ازاخر برمیگرده به شهرش.از نظر محتوایی هم نقدهای زیادی به سیاست نکرده بود و صرفن نظام کمونیستی رو بد جلوه داده بود و به نشون دادن وضعِ بدِ مردم شوروی اکتفا کرده بود.
از نظر گرافیکی، هنوز پخته نشده بود که چیز طبیعی‌ای هست چون اولین قسمت‌اش بود. از نظر داستانی هم به قدرتِ بقیه قسمت‌ها نبود ولی باز هم جذاب و جالب بود. فرار کردن‌اش از موقعیت‌ها گاهی تخیلی می‌شد و مثل قسمت‌های دیگه هوشمندانه نبود.تمام قصه این بود که می‌ره شوروی و هی بدبیاری میاره و ازشون فرار می‌کنه و ازاخر برمی‌گرده به شهرش.از نظر محتوایی هم نقدهای زیادی به سیاست نکرده بود و صرفن نظام کمونیستی رو بد جلوه داده بود و به نشون دادن وضعِ بدِ مردم شوروی اکتفا کرده بود.
Tintin discovering Russia, escaping from the Soviet policies and the Cold War.
Reseña completa: http://elcaosliterario.blogspot.com/2...Los protagonistas de estas aventuras son Tintín y su perro Milú, aunque probablemente son unos personajes que no necesitan ni presentación ya que siguen todavía muy presentes.
En esta aventura, Tintín y su perro Milú, viajan a Moscú por Berlín para hacer un reportaje.
Sin embargo, un agente del servicio secreto soviético, intenta que Tintín no lo haga y le pone trampas para deshacerse de él.
Sin embargo, como primer acercamiento a Tintín está muy bien porque en él se puede apreciar como todavía no tenía un estilo muy definido y es una muestra de lo que estaba por venir.
This Tin-tin adventure is quite comic, albeit the exaggerated picture about the Soviets - like a caricature of sorts! In fact, I did not know this had been the first of the series, so I assumed it was Tin-tin in Congo - less fun...I loved reading this book and had a lot of fun with Tin-tin and Milu's fights and adventures...Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 2 January 2015.
Είναι το κόμικ που δημιούργησε αυτό που ξέρουμε σαν γαλλοβελγική σχολή. Σε 2 χρόνια κλείνει τα 90 και είναι κακογερασμένο εν συγκρίσει ακόμα και με μεταγενέστερα έργα του δημιουργού του.
I'm 16 but still a child :))I love this seriesI love Tintinand his smart dog.I love every single thing about this series
I'm revisiting this classic series in Franco-Belgian comics.
Among Belgians, Tintin is something of a national symbol, almost a source of pride.
Luckily, I was -and still am -rather fond of the series.
Tintin in the Land of the Soviets , the first instalment, is very early, very - oh so very - rough Hergé.
Apart from the look,Tintin bears little resemblance to how he is characterised in subsequent stories.
I guess this is forgiveable, since little was known about the communist regime at that time (1930).
It consistently remains very light, escapist fare.As an introduction to the splendour that is Tintin, I'd recommend looking elsewhere.
Re - read this today and i gotta say i still like it , ofcourse having been first published during the 1930s the book has it's fair share of problem like the whole Soviet propaganda and being focussed more on a goofy take on adventures of tintin rather than the later days mystery / detective style .
To be fair the Comic hasn't aged well at all and yet , there's something about Tintin that i really like ,the adventure of Tintin is especially fun as no matter how many tough corners Tintin found himself in , the Duo of Tintin and Snowy always found a way out only to be trapped in another .
TINTIN !...
ARE YOU DEAD ?...
SAY YES OR NO, BUT ANSWER ME !لماذا الآن؟بعد خمسة وعشرين عاما تقريبا أعود لقراءة تان تان، القصص المصورة المفضلة لدي، قرأت في طفولتي وحتى المرحلة الابتدائية المئات من القصص المصورة (ميكي وسوبرمان وجرينديزر وغيرها الكثير) بعدها اقتصرت قراءاتي للقصص المصورة على أعداد ميكي التي احضرها لأطفال العائلة.أعود لقراءة تان تان الآن لسببين:الأول أنني في انتظار طفلي الأول (عليا) - باقي لها من الزمن حتى تراني ثلاثة شهور بإذن الله - والصورة الأكثر جاذبية لفكرة أبوة طفلة صغيرة هي طفلتك بين يديك تقرأ لها قصة مصورة وتستمتع بتعليقاتها، أقرأ تان تان الآن في انتظارها.الثاني أن أميرة - واحدة من بطلات روايتي الأولى التي أرجو الله أن تجد من ينشرها - تكتب قصص قصيرة لا يقرأها أحد وتعشق قصص تان تان هي وبطلة قصصها.على هامش الذكريات والآمال:خفة الدم الحقيقية والبساطة تقضي على عيوب السخافة والمبالغة الفجة ولذلك لم أفقد استمتاعي بالقصة رغم تفاهة المعالجة وفجاجة السخرية من روسيا الشيوعية.
Tintin in the Land of Soviets appeared first in the The Little Twentieth, a children's supplement of a conservative and fascist Belgium-based newspaper, The Twentieth Century, for which Herge (Georges Reni) worked as an illustrator.
In the disguise of reporting current affairs to the young readers through Tintin the reporter, the newspaper's editor, Norbert Wallez's main agenda was to propagate the anti-communist and right-oriented sentiments, which were strongly prevalent during 1930s in the Europe, among children.
Also, here Herge simply regurgitated several parts in Joseph Douillet's Moscow Unmasked without much fact-checking, unlike his future works which were much acclaimed for the detailing and the amount of research.
Divertido cómic con el que las aventuras de Tintín dieron comienzo.El estilo de Hergé se empieza a construir en esta primera aventura en Rusia, donde vemos a un intrépido reportero pelear y huir de los rusos del partido comunista, que aquí es pintado como un régimen totalitario y cruel con los pobres.A parte de la crítica política, que en los inicios de Hergé venía delimitada por la corriente política que seguían los periódicos donde publicaba, asistimos a una divertida aventura donde los gags de Tintín y Milú son lo más reseñable.
কেউ কেউ ভাগযকরমে কখনোই পুরোপুরি বড় হয়ে যায় না। আমার বলতে ভাল লাগে আমি তাদের একজন। টিনটিন রিভিশন শুরু... ঝকঝকে সকযান করা সবগুলো পিডিএফ হাতে পড়েছে তাই। যদিও আমার সংগরহে পাঁচটি অথবা সাতটি (পাঁচটি দেখতে পাচছি, হিসাবে আরও দুটো থাকার কথা কিনতু পাচছি না) বই রয়েছে। তবে এবার সিরিয়াল অনুযায়ী পড়া যাবে। যেগুলোর কখনো নাগাল পাইনি সেগুলোও পড়া যাবে। খুউউউউশিইইই!!
কেউ কেউ ভাগ্যক্রমে কখনোই পুরোপুরি বড় হয়ে যায় না। আমার বলতে ভাল লাগে আমি তাদের একজন। টিনটিন রিভিশন শুরু... ঝকঝকে স্ক্যান করা সবগুলো পিডিএফ হাতে পড়েছে তাই। যদিও আমার সংগ্রহে পাঁচটি অথবা সাতটি (পাঁচটি দেখতে পাচ্ছি, হিসাবে আরও দুটো থাকার কথা কিন্তু পাচ্ছি না) বই রয়েছে। তবে এবার সিরিয়াল অনুযায়ী পড়া যাবে। যেগুলোর কখনো নাগাল পাইনি সেগুলোও পড়া যাবে। খুউউউউশিইইই!!
All Tin-Tin's adventures are great fun. I read them all in my early teenage years and had such a great time with them. Fast and fun is exactly what they are. Love them!
১৯২৯ সালে শুরু হওয়া কমিকস সিরিজটির ১ম গলপের পটভূমি ১৯২২ এ নবয সংগঠিত দেশ সোভিয়েত ইউনিয়ন। এ গলপে লেখক সোভিয়েত সরকারের সামযবাদী কমিউনিসট দের সবরগ ভূমি গড়ে তোলার ফাঁকা পরতিশরুতির আড়ালে চলা পরশাসনের দুরাচার ( কমিকসে জোর করে কমিউনিসট সরকারকে ভোট পরদানে বাধয করার চিতর, কমিউনিসট বাদে অনযানয রাজনৈতিক মতাদরশীদের ওপর চলা অতযাচার – যেখানে অনাহারে থাকা গরিব শিশুদের মধযে রুটি বনটনের সময় অনয রাজনৈতিক মতাদরশী দের বঞচিত করা হয়) এবং দেশের আরথিক ( কমিকসে দেখা যায় আমেরিকান কমিউনিসট দের কনভিনস করার জনয একটা মিলের ব
১৯২৯ সালে শুরু হওয়া কমিকস সিরিজটির ১ম গল্পের পটভূমি ১৯২২ এ নব্য সংগঠিত দেশ সোভিয়েত ইউনিয়ন। এ গল্পে ল
Tüm seri böyle gitmiyordur umarım :)
3.5 stars I know these books are quite colonial, racist and derogatory.
But, these are the very first French comics I fell in love with as a teen, so it does have sentimental value.
I'm a forlorn mother, thinking, "No Tintin, you cannot blow up shit in another country and avoid prosecution" "No, that's not how gravity works" "What are you doing ramming full speed into a train HAVE YOU NO BRAINS, THINK OF SNOWY/MILOU AT LEAST" "Calling people "savages" in their own country is just bad manners" "You're a piece of shit, at least Captain Braddock will show up in the next book".
This book just has pure sentimental value for me, and a whole lot of nonsensical plothole funtimes.
Unlike the other Tintin books, this was written in daily (or possibly weekly?) installments and not as a "graphic novel" (for lack of a better term). And it reads that way - it's incredibly episodic and repetitive (how many times will Tintin dress up as the bad guys to fool them? A lot), but it's cute and there are glimpses of the kind of humor for which the series would later come to be known. Not a great book, but cute for what it is.
Written in 1929 this Tintin adventure gives us a glimpse into the recent Bolshevik revolution in Russia. As such it is a very important document that will be enjoyed by those who are interested in the history of modern Russia.
اولین تن تن و شروعی بر این شخصیت همیشه جذاب.
Nor, I hope, is it based in the poor humor – I get that language, humor and audience expectations were much different back then.I think that there are enough clunky moments in this book and things that should not have gotten past an editor in any age, that it is possible to criticize it for being a rush job and for being crap to the point of stupidity and not fall pray to simply misunderstanding the age that the book was written in.For one example (out of many) look to the scene early on where Tintin makes a car that will ride on train tracks out of a bunch of scrap metal that just happens to be waiting by the track, he’s a genius crows Snowy.
Tintin is a fucked up dude. He doesnt give a shit. He just crashes vehicles, beats up public officials and fights a polar bear like its nothing. I dont know if its badass or just being an asshole. I think he is kind of a dickhead in this comic strip. But the entertainment value here is crazy good. There are things happening on every page and I was never bored while reading it. There are some very outdated racist caricatures of Asians, russians and some very stereotypical germans, and I know this
Tintin is a fucked up dude.
He just crashes vehicles, beats up public officials and fights a polar bear like it´s nothing.
I don´t know if it´s badass or just being an asshole.
There are things happening on every page and I was never bored while reading it.
There are some very outdated racist caricatures of Asians, russians and some very stereotypical germans, and I know this is something Tintin has been criticized for many years.
Still, it´s very cool to see Tintins origins, where he started and it will be interesting to read more where the series have gone.
This very early Tintin is all black and white line drawings. The art is quite expressive and there is a lot of physical comedy. This is sort of the Three Stooges Tintin, I think. The story is even more ridiculous than in later Tintin adventures and while Tintin shows signs of the sanctimonious little guy he becomes later, he's actually a bit of a jerk. I think this is a must for any Tintin fan, if only for historical interest.
On s’aperçoit ici des efforts d’un jeune écrivain qui est en train de se découvrir à soi même. Une histoire plutôt naïve qui manque un peu plus de complexité et cohésion, mais qui vaut la lecture car elle marque le début de la légende de Tintin au monde.
crude black and white cartoon from 1920s but nevertheless same fun
