https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77554.The_Stone_Diaries
It has been 14 years since I have read it and I still remember clearly what it means to me: Life is long....and in this long life you lead a series of mini-lives.
We are blessed with the chance and sometimes forced against our will to reinvent ourselves again and again until one day we are very old and find that we are living in Florida wearing polyester pantsuits.
Sometimes I hope that the "life" I'm in never ends and my fear is that one day its time will be up.
In other periods of my life, I remember that nothing is forever and this some day may not be remembered by me at all.
A breathtaking and thoroughly original novel.
I'm completely in awe of the choices Shields made in the shaping of this narrative.
The whole is flawlessly cohesive.
She allows for ambiguity.
She allows for the reader's subjective response, whatever that might be.
And then she gently guides you to a different vantage point, one you hadn't considered.The body, through birth, sex, illness, and death is discussed...graphically...but with such grace, such reverence, such heartbreaking candor, it's actually beautiful.This novel struck me to the core.I love it so much, I don't even want to know what others have said about it!
The Stone Diaries tells the story of Daisy Goodwill Flett's troubled life beginning and ending with sadness and death. There is so much to absorb about the character's in this short novel that I feel the need to read it again, and probably will at some point, but for now.......... Mercy, Mercy.......Cuyler Goodwill loved you so.......Why did you not share your secret? I did like this somber 1995 Pulitzer Prize winner that does actually have a few laughs, and one shocker, but was somewhat annoyed
The Stone Diaries tells the story of Daisy Goodwill Flett's troubled life beginning and ending with sadness and death.
Mercy, Mercy.......Cuyler Goodwill loved you so.......Why did you not share your secret?
I did like this somber 1995 Pulitzer Prize winner that does actually have a few laughs, and one shocker, but was somewhat annoyed each time the storyline came to an abrupt halt at a crucial juncture throughout the telling.
(view spoiler)[I AM NOT AT PEACE (sure wish Cuyler would have told Daisy how much he loved her mother, given her more affection and Mercy's engraved 18k wedding ring as he once planned instead of burying it in the time capsule under the pyramid) (hide spoiler)]
The type of book others rigorously want to imitate.
That is, the elusive "turn of the century all American novel", with myriad glimpses at gorgeous post millennial metafiction.
"The Stone Diaries" no doubt inspired other works of immeasurable brilliance like T.
C. Boyle's "World's End" and Coetzee's "Elizabeth Costello"--it is heartbreaking, endearing, and, best of all, quite accessible.
(Although the Puig-like tricks, that is, Latin American lit.
concessions, are quite distinguishable.) The symbols of marble and hard rock as counter-contrasts to flimsy flowers and biology are made...
eternal, in this must-read novel.
It seems the author's basic premise is that the main character, Daisy, lacks strong emotion because she was not raised by her biological mother, who was herself an orphan, and that these things have some how caused both her and her mother to be inherently flawed.
There are other times it does not feel like her voice, just narrative, and there is just a small portion of the book that is in first person.
It does not feel at all like a diary, which again may be for the effect of distancing the main character from herself.
Starting on the day of Daisy's birth, with her mother, Mercy, and moving both backward and forward through time, the book gives perspectives and experiences of many of the supporting characters as well, including Daisy's father, the woman who raises her, her husband, and her children.
Both as a human story and as a parable for the countries in which the novel takes place (the U.S. and Canada), these reinventions work very well.I was impressed enough by this book that I passed it on to my mother, and I will be on the lookout for more of Carol Shields' work.
"Biography, even autobiography, is full of systemic error, of holes that connect like a tangle of underground streams." And this telling of Daisy's life as daughter, wife, mother, is full of holes, gaps in the narrative, letters that present only one side, etc.
For Daisy's mother, Mercy Stone Goodwill, died giving birth to Daisy.
"Remember this poor child is motherless, and there's not one thing worse in this world than being motherless." Her father is too distraught over the loss of his beloved wife to care for the infant so Daisy is raised by the neighbor lady, Clarentine, who abruptly deserts her husband and moves to Winnipeg to live with her son, Barker, a professor.
It's ironic that I read this book while I was reading Sex and the City.
One book is a about an ordinary housewife struggling with life's little trials, the other, a place peppered with big names and obscene money, fur coats and Lear jets.
This book is phenomenal.
It's probably the best book I've read in the last year.
Each and every page is special because the perspective of this woman is so true, so sensitive, so illuminating.
Somehow even a minuscule event in this woman's life becomes important--great even.
This book is truly about the journey.
Although it is doubtful these interviews happened, they ring of truth, and because Daisy is never very forthright herself about what’s going on, the opinions and insights of others are important to the narrative.In the end we are left with a shopping list, a bridal trousseau, school awards, a collection of books, fingernail clippings, and a memorial write-up of a life lived.
It's 4 stars instead of 5 for me as at times I was impatient for the story to move forward but the book is incredible for the observations the author makes about our lives.
I've just finished reading this for the second time, the first time being several years ago. The more I read by Carol Shields, the more impressed I am by her writing skills. I think the structure of this book is excellent, and very, very skilled.
I know this won't win me any friends among Canadian readers, but I don't like Carol Shields writing.
Each chapter is titled for a specific stage of her life: Birth, Childhood, Marriage, Love, Motherhood, Work, Sorrow, Ease, Illness and Decline, and Death.I found the gaps too long between some of the chapters.
For example, the "Childhood" chapter ends in 1916, just as she reconnects with her father, then that chapter comes to an end and the next one "Marriage" begins with her as a bride-to-be at 22 years of age.
I know that a lot of people love her writing so definitely give it a try.
I guess I cannot stand Pulitzer Prize winning books.
I have yet to read one that I've enjoyed.
Too much filler and a waste of my time to read.
After having to put up with a chapter detailing how morbidly obese Mercy Stone was, I was pretty mad that the picture provided of Mercy was not nearly as huge as I imagined.
The woman in the picture was overweight, but not to the extent that I was led to believe by the text.
Sorry...I'm not one of those shallow people who thinks being 20 pounds overweight makes one "obese".
This Pulitzer Prize-winning book was suggested for the Mostly Literary Fiction book group that I lead at the Hayward Public Library, and we read it for our May 2009 discussion.
Quite a fitting book to read while contemplating the life, and inevitable death, of your mother.The ending of the novel brought me to tears -- but it is not a sentimental book.
And at times shifts back.I look forward to reading more books by Carol Shields, and I'm glad that this novel was suggested for our book group!
(Several years ago I read and really enjoyed Carol Shields's slim biography of Jane Austen.
A cookery book lay open on the table: 'Take some slices of stale bread,' the recipe said, 'and one pint of currants; half a pint of raspberries; four ounces of sugar; some sweet cream if available.' Of course she's didvided the recipe in half, there being just the two of them, and what with the scarcity of currants, and Cuyler (my father) being a dainty eater.
I recognize and appreciate that the writing is wonderfully done, and I had no trouble finishing this story and was glad I read it.
It's a story about an ordinary woman, living an ordinary life, and dying an ordinary death.
Having read this in my middle years, I now reread it within a completely different life period and enjoyed it even more.
How rich the language, without having to use foul chorus calls of trite ranting or other slurs.
A life begun in great sorrow and also having patches of unsought fulfillment scattered along the way.
The photographs were awesome- they were never included in the first copy I read so many years ago.
Real women's choices- you could feel them here.
Just loved Clementine and Carol's rending of her feelings within her 20 year marriage.

The book reads almost like an in-depth memoir, except that other perspectives (or versions of Daisy's story) keep breaking into the narrative.
"Orphaned" at birth, shuffled from Canada to the United States, widowed early and long-lived, Daisy faces each phase of her life searching to fill the void of her inner loneliness."We accept, as a cosmic joke, the separate ways of men and women, their different levels of foolishness...Men, it seemed to me in those days, were uniquely honored by their stories that erupted in their lives, whereas women were more likely to be smothered by theirs."Shields has such a light writing hand, I felt more like I was peeking in on Daisy's life even though I was fully immersed in every thought and action.
At places I think it's marvelously written and captivating as well as containing a number of nice and unusual narrative grips, such as telling an entire decade of the main characters life by only random correspondence (and only incoming letters, saved and read by the character herself).
This, together with the fact that it is a short book (especially considering it tells of an entire life, close to 90 years) does make big parts of the book less interesting and at times it is hard caring very much what happens to and around the main character.
I enjoyed this book by Carol Shields of Daisy Goodwill's life story.
It is kind of unusual in that it goes through Daisy's life as she tries to find her place in the world.
What I liked the most was Shields' writing style.
It was very beautiful (I especially enjoyed the first section about Daisy's birth).
Written in 'sections' of Daisy's life from birth through death, some go back in time and tell the history of her father, mother, other members of her family, or friends.
This was my first Carol Shields and it won't be my last, in spite of the fact that I would place this at the bottom of my 4-star reads (or even top of 3-star if I were feeling stingy).
Shields used a variety of ways to tell the story - different first person narratives, third person narratives, letters, and a mixture of newspaper articles.
Some of what she wrote I read several times.
In tone, in fluidity, in resonance, it is all that a man's voice should be, with just that hint of Scottish burr, thinner than the skin of varnish on his oak lectern, giving necessary hardness.
The chapters chronicles Daisy' life, but always from an external perspective.
She is never the voice and rarely do we ever "hear" her speak.
All the dialogue is provided by those around her and facts are her life are circumstantial.
Hearing about her life from multiple voices make me question what are the real facts of her life, what parts are how she is perceived by others, and how she thinks she is perceived communicated through others.
It's also intriguing the way the author provides photos of fictional characters, some of whom don't really resemble their description, like Daisy's mother.

From birth to a poor quarry worker in 1905 to young small-town debutant in the 1920s, to June Cleaver knock-off in the 1950s to bridge-playing retiree in the 1980s to death in 1999, Daisy’s life parallels the popular image of women in those decades.
This novel is rich with details, and it is the peripheral details that carry the story.
And, what is the meaning of this book, or Daisy’s story?
Each reader will understand Daisy and the construction of the book through their vantage point.
Twentieth century women were largely powerless over their fate, carried along by the expectations of a patriarchal society.
I read this quite some time ago, and could never think of an adequate review.
It follows in exquisite detail the life of Daisy Stone in ten chapters: Birth 1905, Childhood 1916, Marriage 1927, Love 1936, Motherhood 1947, Work 1955-1964, Sorrow 1965, Ease 1977, Illness and Decline 1985, Death.
Daisy's life is ordinary but utterly absorbing; through the years, the reader almost slips inside her skin, sharing her experiences.
How does a poet know when a poem is ended?
How does a woman know when a marriage is over?
Because of the way her life suddenly shears off in just two directions: past and future.
Like finding a shoebox in the attic.Here is the life of Daisy presented mostly through narration, but buttressed by letters, tombstones, photographs (which occasionally contradict the narrative), words etched into a Victorian plate, a luncheon menu, Aunt Daisy's Lemon Pudding recipe, to-do lists, a list of books read and a sheet with every address Daisy lived.
There aren't too many people who can hope to be long remembered after they pass.
Having your lemon pudding recipe live on for awhile would be more than most people are remembered for.Everything in this book feels true, solid.
I really, really like it.
it is beautifully written and addresses some interesting ideas: the offhand catastrophes of everyday life; the way one person can casually devestate another without feeling a thing; the crime - and inevitability - of wasted time; the ability of women to suffer in silence to their dying breath; the impossibility of accurate autobiography; the sad ridiculousness of the idea that there is any justice to be had in this world.
the author treats her characters in this book as stones whose characters are revealed as time and events chip away at them to reveal their inner being.
it is a book that is well worth reading.
It chronicles the life of a "cursed" young women, Daisy Goodwill, whose simple mother died in childbirth; and who later experiences another of life's tragedies.
We know of her life; but we want her to truly live.The brilliance of "Stone Diaries" can be summed up by Shields' final chapter - the "Death" of Daisy.
Through a list of Daisy's past addresses; a trivial thing, something to be archived or else forgotten, we as readers travel nostalgically back through Daisy's long life, envisioning her homes, friends, loved ones, triumphs and tolls, as revealed through "Stone Diaries." It is a beautiful book; literature to be treasured.
There are parts of the book with input and letters from other characters, and there are parts which really seem to be in the third person, and may be, but then and again an ‘I’ is slipped in and the deal is revealed.
As you can guess from the title, stone is a major motif in the book, hard and intact.I loved the structure, too, the letters, the ‘versions,’ the family tree, and the photographs, which help you pretend this is a fiction that happened.
I'm not one who takes to prize-winning books easily.
But then again, I try not to pre-judge if I can help it.I read this at Uni. Not spectacular by any means; but an interesting journey through the drudgery of work/everyday life.The main theme here is identity, I think; and the narration often switches between 1st and 3rd person, making it come across as part autobiography/part biography.There's a strong sense of realism (this might be categorised as "fiction", but the story very much real in its essence).
You need to settle into it.
But when you do, you'll get drawn in (I did anyway).
Wow, this novel is the perfect example of what happens when you least expect it. I knew nothing about this book, I'd never heard of it or its author, and I found the cover unappealing. And, yet, it's one of the best, most meaningful stories I've ever read.It won the Pulitzer Prize for 1995, which is the only reason I picked it up. Then, I couldn't put it down. This is one of those life-altering novels, a big picture story, upsetting and wonderful at the same time. I can't quite recommend it enough.
