https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311180.A_Blunt_Instrument
The suspects include Helen North, a lovely if rather hen-witted married woman whose IOUs Fletcher had bought up and was using to try to strong-arm her into an affair; John North, her possibly jealous if rather estranged husband; Neville Fletcher, the deceased's heir; Ernest Fletcher's suspicious-acting stockbroker, and a few others.I'm a longtime fan of Heyer's Regency-era novels, which tend to be a delightful mix of romance and comedy of manners, with lots of witty dialogue.

Normally I'm all in favour of the retro paperback covers but this one   is hideous.While there is a lot to like about this book, it does have a few flaws. Any time my favourite Watson (Hemingway) came on to the page the whole book sparkled with life & energy & GH gave him some of the books wittiest lines. The remaining funny lines went to Neville & I found his & Hemingway's exchanges with the gloomily religious Corporal Glass hilarious.But Helen is one of the most selfish, shallo
Any time my favourite Watson (Hemingway) came on to the page the whole book sparkled with life & energy & GH gave him some of the books wittiest lines.
The remaining funny lines went to Neville & I found his & Hemingway's exchanges with the gloomily religious Corporal Glass hilarious.But Helen is one of the most selfish, shallow, stupid & all round annoying characters GH ever wrote.
Half way through (view spoiler)[ if I had been a character in the book I would have murdered her!
** SPOILER ALERT **What a lark! A Blunt Instrument has to be one of the most droll and entertaining of Heyer's mysteries. I loved it from beginning to end, and figured out whodunnit almost immediately. Ordinarily, this would make me think less of Heyer's writing abilities, but in this case, her "hiding" the murderer "in plain sight" actually causes the reader to second guess themselves throughout the 309 hilarious pages.Entertaining, funny and filled with period charm and cant-speak, A Blunt Instrument isn't to be missed for lovers of the golden age murder mystery.
A delightful cozy mystery in the vein of Agatha Christie. It's not really surprising, but due to Heyer's wonderful writing it provides hours of good fun, filled with her trademark bickering and interesting characters. A nice, comfortable read, perfect if you're looking for a good old-fashioned mystery! *I received a copy from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review*
Another Heyer Mystery completed!In this one the police forces tackle the strange puzzle of the "Perfect Gentleman" who has been murdered in a most messy way possible, in less than five minutes.
One thing he definitely does is try their patience and give everyone a laugh.This felt a bit like Hawaii Five-O, Georgette Heyer style.
Particularly the way the story progressed.
One police man, Officer Glass loved to quote scriptures at everyone.
PG The murder is rather gruesome, but we aren't given a bunch of nasty details.
This book is classic Heyer - madcap characters, clever plot and hilariously droll dialogue.
The problem with solving this murder is that, as Sergeant Hemingway remarks more than once, if all the witnesses are telling the truth, then there can't have been a murder.
And yet there is the body of Ernest Fletcher with a bashed in head, so clearly there has been a murder.So obviously that means someone is lying.
And yet, all are, in fact, telling the truth!
Of course, the truth of the matter will dawn upon you, the reader, as it does upon Superintendent Hannasyde.I only wish that Ms. Heyer had written more mysteries!
It flickers guiltily through my conscience that if any other person had written this book, I would have given it 3 stars.
But it is Heyer and I delight in anything she writes like a doting parent delights in her children's drawings.
There are some definite tones of sexism that I like to think are in fun but might not have been.
And if you're familiar with Heyer's character archetypes, the characters fall into their somewhat predictable spheres.
And yet what fun spheres they are!
So I give this book 4 stars because it was fun and it was written by her.
Filled with some perceptive and funny lines, this is the best of the Inspector Hannasyde stories.In this mystery, the amateurs do not take over the investigation but serve as suspects who continue to generate red herrings.
There are even a couple of possible "business" associates thrown into the mix who may or may not be the mystery man the police are searching for.The thoughtful Inspector Hannasyde who has to puzzle through the many bits of often contradictory information is once again aided by his sidekick, the wise-cracking Sergeant Hemingway slinging slang.
I especially liked the dialogue between Hannysmede and Hemingway but most especially when Neville Fletcher was around annoying the Scripture-quoting Glass with counter quotes.
The characters are more likable than in previous Heyer mysteries I've read and more memorable.
My favorite character is Neville, Ernie Fletcher's nephew.
Hannasyde and Hemingway were also fun characters.
I've met Hemingway before but he wasn't very memorable and I suspect I won't remember him again if I read another mystery.
Thank you to Georgette Heyer and her husband, Ronald Rougier for coming up with an engaging mystery and fun characters.
And the reader cannot help but share everyone else's exasperation with Helen and John, whose only value to the story is watching the other characters tell them just how idiotic they are.But Sally and Neville are 1000% gold.Sally is near-unflappable, and splendid in so many ways.
I'm sure I'd want to hit him if I ever had to have a conversation with him (and especially if he owed me money), but his constant puncturing of social mores is fabulous in the extreme.Additional content warning: Heyer indulges in one of her Jewish stereotype characters.Narration-wise, this was quite a good one.
after rereading in 2016 Maybe this is really only 3 stars. I did enjoy Neville Fletcher & Sally Drew and of course Constable Glass! Unimportant but annoying is the fact that the picture on the cover of this 2006 Arrow edition not only had nothing to do with the murder but doesn't even represent the people in this book!!I recalled the solution to this one from the beginning of my reread and (view spoiler)[while this mystery does violate the "rules," I could admire how skillfully Heyer gave th
after rereading in 2016 Maybe this is really only 3½ stars. I did enjoy Neville Fletcher & Sally Drew and of course Constable Glass! Unimportant but annoying is the fact that the picture on the cover of this 2006 Arrow edition not only had nothing to do with the murder but doesn't even represent the people in this book!!I recalled the solution to this one from the beginning of my reread and (view spoiler)[while this mystery does violate the "rules," I could admire how skillfully Heyer gave the reader clues pointing to the guilty person. (hide spoiler)]
The beginning of the book and the title rather give away whodunnit, but the whole point of a Heyer novel is simply to be frothy confection of banter and characters who run the gamut from "fairly implausible" to "highly improbable." In other words, excellent to read when you're jet-lagged and awake at 4a.m.
A bit too easy to solve (and this is someone who hardly tries, especially with mysteries that hinge on tight timing), but fun and humorous. Not so much of the underlying social nastiness that Heyer's contemporary novels often reflect.
I thought it went along smoothly and was an easy read.
About half way through I guessed it might be Glass but still wasn't sure until the end.
A lot of people didn't like Helen but to me she was a kind of nothing character.
It was almost like she was there just to throw in a time frame that eschewed everything for the police.
Once she and her husband made up that was kind of it for her.I LOVED Neville!!
And I did like that he and Sally ended up together.
All in all a very entertaining read that I think would do well on tv.
Two good points: The Neville character was amusing in an over-the-top British fop/airhead kind of way, and it took some work (or a photographic memory) to get all those bits of Scripture into Constable Glass' dialogue. But the rest of it--ugh. The repetition of the facts of the case, the lack of character development, the scarcity of narrative--ugh. Most of the book is dialogue, but a lot of it is dialogue as if lifted straight from real life with all the boring, repetitive bits left in. It was rather like reading the screenplay for a dull five-hour film.
The mystery for me is often secondary with my favorite Golden Age mystery writers; it's the atmosphere and characters I relish, and with Heyer especially, her sharp humor and witty dialogue.
She has so much fun with her quirky characters, just like in her Regencies - she's one of my favorite writers in any genre!2/6/2016: 3 stars, I've read more Heyer mysteries since my first reading of this book and they were better.
It has the witty, dry British humor and dialogue; interesting, quirky characters and fair-play puzzle to unravel, but for me, a little too much emphasis on the timing of the murder and who could be the murderer, it drags on.
And it was decent, although the detective has pretty much no personality at all.And the worst part was that I found the solution of the mystery completely obvious from the very beginning.
It is meant to be a mystery that is totally impossible to have been committed until the big reveal that makes everything possible, but I saw that possibility at once.
So it wasn't too much fun to read the entire book, increasingly sure of the culprit, as no one in the book has any idea until the last few pages.So I probably won't be reading more of Heyer's mysteries any time soon, unfortunately.
Read several times in the past. Scenes have been recurring to me this past week, so I decided I needed to read it again. Always a fun, good read.
When I was a kid, I remember reading one or two of her Regency Novels, but never followed up on her work.
In her day, she was a popular writer, compared to Agatha Christie and Josephine Tey. In today’s world – assuming that this work is typical of others in the series – this police procedural is much too mechanistic.
The characters are all lifted out of “the book of standard characters”, including her series hero, Superintendent Hannasyde.
I suspect that her real money-makers were her Romance novels or novels set in Regency England.
I did enjoy reading this one in spite of the fact that I saw the solution early on. That's always a little frustrating. You feel like yelling at the characters to get a clue! Also, the cover of this edition has absolutely nothing imaginable to do with the book. Still, lots of humor and likable characters, my favorite time period and setting so overall a good one.
Her characters are as amusing and enchanting as the exchange of dialogues between them. PC Glass's annoyingly stern delivery of biblical verses and Neville Fletcher's nonchalant nature but funnily original sense of grit, wit and jocularity steal the show. Compared to other works of Heyer's, this has very less characters introduced on the family side, brutal murders and is slightly low on the many intense and verbose dramatis personae that she creates. But it is all the same a super read that cannot be put down once started. Enjoy!!
3.5 stars.(view spoiler)[ It's probably all the preaching that made me suspect who the killer is all along :) (hide spoiler)]. The John/Helen combination reminds me of Heyer's  The Convenient Marriage H/h... one of my least favorites.
Classic crime from the Golden Age. I stumbled on Georgette Heyer crime novels, would never read her regency romances but I love the Hannasyde/Hemingway novels. They are witty, entertaining and even though I knew who committed the crime, she kept me reading.
Darling. Inspector Glass was (and how the others reacted to him) was a hoot...well, until...Not all of Heyer's detective novels are great, but this one was super entertaining.
Two forthright questions to which the answers had to be provided by Superintendent (not yet Inspector) Hannasyde and Sergeant (not yet Inspector) Hemingway.They set about their investigations in earnest and in no time at all there are any number of suspects, so many indeed that PC Malachi Glass, the first policeman on the murder scene, is called in to assist.
However, the reader is perplexed as to who the killer could be and there is also a second murder which seems to bear some relationship to the first, although nobody knows what.As in all good detective novels, Hannasyde and Hemingway come out on top, unmasking the killer very close to the end of the book and his identity will undoubtedly surprise many readers.
#4 and final book, Inspector Hannasyde series - Police Procedural/Murder Mystery3.5 starsJust OK.
The thing with Georgette Heyer is when she's at her best, the book is fantastic, as with The Masqueraders.
So I am reading as many of her 50+ books so as not to miss the terrific reads.In this four book series, all four books are much the same -- a wealthy man is murdered, and the younger immediate family members and/or their spouses have motives.
In each book, one or two stand-out characters save the book from being almost boring.
Those stand-out characters are so eccentric, entertaining, or so irritating, that you keep reading.
The investigation is pretty rambly, and is usual with Heyer's mysteries, I knew whodunnit and how before the detectives.
I had no patience with the Norths (pretty but dramatic Helen and her stoic husband, each thinking the worst of each other), and even though none of the other characters did either, it was still a bore to have to read so many scenes of theirs.
I liked Neville Fletcher, who is that common Heyer character, the burbling lazy ninny who is actually incredibly clever, and I thought (view spoiler)[the support for his romance with Sally Drew was nicely laid.
(hide spoiler)]
Neville Fletcher is a great version of the highly intellectual types seen in Albert Campion and Lord Peter.
His humor is languid, wry and subtle so makes the perfect counterpoint to the heavy treading PC Glass.
Other miss matched pairs are the two sisters, Ms. Sally Drew and Mrs. Helen North.
Sally is keenly observant and a published crime author while her sister is a married wife estranged from her husband through foolishness and lack of communication.
Mr North is intelligent but so proper his wife dare not approach him.Once more Superintendent Hannasyde and Sergeant Hemingway discover the true culprit amidst all the socialites, servants and similar suspects.
I used to be more tolerant of books that bored me...Those days are now over.
I read the first 100 pages of A Blunt Instrument, skimmed the next 100, and then discarded the book, leaving the last 100 or so pages unread.
In fact, I didn't even bother to find out who the murderer was; that's how much I cared.A while ago (a week, even) I would have forged my way through to the end.
But lately I've realized that I've chewed my way through enough dry books and I'm weary of it.
Undoubtedly, I will still end up reading various boring books to their completions, but I certainly believe the percentage will go down drastically.
