https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44186.The_Monster_at_the_End_of_this_Book
What I didn't expect was to be profoundly affected, to the point of tears and sleepless nights, by a drawing of Grover, his furry mouth so wide with terror that his head resembled a blubbering halved blue grapefruit, positively out of control with horror and dread concerning the MONSTER that was about to destroy him, to destroy us all, because he'd spoken to me, personally, directly, about the effects the very book I held in my hands would have on the both of us in the immediate future.
In the story, Grover begs the reader to stop turning pages because each page brings us closer to a monster at the end of the book, and Grover is afraid of monsters.
She performed it perfectly, and it was a beautiful scene.I have so many happy memories of my mother reading to me before bedtime.
It is tragic that her brain has now been so damaged by cancer that she has trouble speaking and reading, but cancer can't rob me of those times.Like Grover, I wish I could nail down some boards or build a brick wall to try and stop what is inevitable.
Riveting.Gave me goose bumps.A true page turner till the end.
Grover BEGS you to not turn the page in order to keep from reaching the monster that will be found on the final page ((view spoiler)[The monster turns out to be 'lovable furry old' Grover himself (hide spoiler)]), building brick walls and such to thwart your progress.
However, the fun is laughing at Grover as you ignore his pleas and keep on pushing forward to the end.
Other titles to check out are the sequel, Another Monster at the End of This Book or Hide and Seek: with Lovable, Furry Old Grover (Pictureback["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
But, I didn’t give up… I found the correct remote(s), shut down all things electronic, sat them down in a semi circle at my feet---and with a relish unbeknownst to even myself--- read them this mutha-f**king classic!“So?
I scanned my memory banks… did Mom or Dad read this to me?
where the hell did I first read this?
I mean throughout the whole book you’re being told that you shouldn’t turn the page because there’s a freaking monster at the end of it.
Okay, I get it… it’s supposed to teach kids to not judge and to not be afraid and to take a chance.
"I . . . am the monster"  Grover Monster This is probably one of the most profound statements in literary history to date. Today, there are hundreds of books, films and television shows which address man's incapacity to negotiate his own darkness. In many variations of the tale, we see the darkness within projected outward, cast onto another real or imagined character. Stephen King's Secret Window, even the latest season of Dexter reacquaints us with this age-old phenomenon, but never have they
His dissociation from his own darkness becomes apparent to the reader on the first page when Grover Monster ironically proclaims, "I am so scared of monsters" (Stone).
On the other hand, if we believe Grover genuinely fears the monster at the end of the book, the text becomes a testament to identities which have become so fragmented that an individual interprets different facets of the self as separate individuals.
Grover's attempts to stop the reader from moving forward are reminiscent of the behaviors we all exhibit when trying to hide our darkest impulses.
The Castle by Kafka (Twist ending: the guy dies!
The monster at the end of this bookA metafictional analysis of the crushing dichotomy between who we want to be and who we really are, this book contains the entire agony of a disillusioned life in its chained pages.
We find him in his youthful idealism, vowing to keep the monster he feels lurking in the world around him at bay.
We feel the inevitability of his defeat - the ending is writ in the title.
We expect a twist ending.
We...we are all the monster.
We...we are all the monster.
I bought this for my grandbaby, in the interest of getting him away from electronics and into real books.We read it 4 times in the first sitting. Even then I had to cut him off so he could go home and get to bed....#Win
If you want to see your little ones not being able to stop giggling every time you dare to turn a page; then you need to get this book.Besides the beautiful words by Jon Stone, there are also these beautiful illustrations by Michael Smollin.I have to say that if a book is good, it doesn't really matter when it was published. It can be popular and successful for ever.This is our new favourite book.
I love Grover.The problem is that Grover asks you to not turn any more pages, because of his belief that there is a monster at the end of the book.
I decided to honor Grover's wish.Oh, I turned a few pages.
But when Grover took the time to tie all the pages together to discourage me from turning any more, well, I just didn't have the heart to go on.
But I can't help but think.....are all monsters necessarily bad?
You know it's funny - one could ALMOST consider Grover himself to be a type of monster.....Well, it's not for me to decide now.
This is a book that I read hundreds of times to my kids. It is so much fun! But, as a Gran, what I really love is hearing my daughter read it to her little boy with the same voices and inflections I used when I read it to her. Generations of readers!😊
We are the monster we fear.We are also the monster that induces fear in others, sometimes by an act as simple as turning a page.The reader is the author of meaning.Simply existing and acting causes ripples in the realities of others which we are incapable of comprehending.When you pick up a stone, the earth is lighter. When you turn the page, you are one moment closer to your own death. Not turning the page will not make the monster at the end of this book dissapear either, he will never go away. He is you.
I'd forgotten all about it, but when I was a little kid this was one of my favourite books.
I love this book because Scoutie loves to hear me read it to her, and who doesn't love to have their babe waddle up with her favourite book in hand before climbing awkwardly onto your lap and saying "wead!"?I love this book because it reminds me that I was once a little we babe crawling up onto my Mom's lap so she could read it to me.I love this book because Grover is, for me, the most magical Sesame Street Muppet.But mostly I love this book because I love this book.
This book is the reason why Grover was and is my favorite muppet of all time!
While I don't remember the specifics of the story (other than the surprise ending!), I do remember reading it a hundred thousand times.
I remember, that maybe, years later, the dog chewed the corner.
And I remember loving this book a lot.Funny, as I think about it now, I wonder why I've lived such a fearful life.
Doesn't this book teach us that sometimes our fears are blown way out of proportion?
Or maybe it teaches us, that we, ourselves, are our own worst nightmares; that I am the monster at the end of my own book.
The creativity of author Jon Stone in this brief story is remarkable, and it is one of the earliest picture books I remember fully appreciating for its content. The Monster at the End of This Book has been a staple of my life forever, I think!  I love this book.
You haven't really read this until you've read it over thirty times in three days to a six year old with severely violent tendencies due to autism.
Το διάβασα με την φωνή του Γκρόβερ 💗
The first time i read this book i was 8 years old, it was a birthday present from my parents, i was so happy because i loved Sesame Street, Who doesn't love S.S when they are kids right?
The most amazing thing about this book is that Grover is trying to stop us from reaching the end of the book, where he knows there is a monster and when we are kids we love to be scared because deep down, we know we are in no real danger.
So we turn page after page even when Grover beg us to stop, page after page until we reach the end.
This is my youngest daughter’s “most favoritest book” and to be honest, it is a joy to read it with her… every night… until she finds another favoritest book.
Such fun to read. I loved this as a child and my kids enjoy this too. One you can read over and over.
Tonight my niece went old school. She wanted the old Golden Books. This was a cute fun little book. Don't turn the Page. Good for preschool age.
A firm favourite on my bookshelf. Loved by children both big and small. Recommended.
One of the best!
It gives your child permission to disobey important instructions from cute, loveable Grover (who could whoop Elmo in a Sesame street fight).
The book grabs your attention from the very first line, with Grover teasing your child's curiosity about a potential monster at the end of the book, all the while begging your child NOT to turn the page.
After all, you created the monster, and here's a newsflash...it's not at the end of this book, it's in the bathroom making its fourth attempt to flush a sock down the toilet after you told them not to.
One of my favorites of the many Golden Books that I cherished as a kid, "The Monster at the End of this Book" by Jon Stone is a perfect, fun little story that taught me the joys of suspense and patience, as my mother used to gleefully take her time turning the pages, while I wiggled with joyous excitement until the last page which, of course (***spoiler alert!***), revealed that the monster was none other than cute, lovable Grover!
So, indulge me if you will while I wax nostalgic in the next couple months until the birth of my little girl, as I will probably be posting several reviews of some of my favorite children's book classics.
I really can't remember when I first read it so I just guessed.
I have always loved Grover as long as I can remember.
It is such a clever and fun book, and while it does kind of play on kids' little rebellious streaks (turning the pages when Grover is trying everything in his power to get the reader not to), it also incites kids to keep reading all the way to the end, to finish what you start, to foster a healthy sense of curiosity, and even to not be so afraid of something that you shouldn't really be afraid of.
I just love the book!) Definitely a highly recommended read for young and old alike!!
I read this book to my children when they were young. It is very funny. The whole book is basically Grover trying to stop you from getting to the end of the book because there is a monster there and he is afraid of monsters. I remember my girls giggling every time they turned a page and ruined his plans to stop them. :)
This was the very first book I ever bought with my own money, me being the age of seven, and I remember the whole event as being almost frighteningly grown-up, to actually buy a book. I also annoyed the crap out of my parents by making them read it to me repeatedly. Loved it at the time.
This was already one of my most favorite books in the entire world.Then I used it to close a monster-themed storytime (10/10/17).When I finished the book, a rapt four-year-old boy in the audience yelled, "READ THAT AGAIN!"<3 <3 <3Best librarian moment ever.
It feels a little bit goofy to rate a Little Golden Book as five stars, but The Monster at the End of this Book, written by Jon Stone is just that adorable.
Grover Monster from Sesame Street is at his endearing best as he does his very best (despite great trepidation on his part) to protect the reader from the scary monster at the end of the book.
Pages come alive as Grover hides inside the binding and behind torn pages when things get too scary for poor little Grover to handle by himself.
Children will delight in each page they turn.
This was my youngest sisters favorite book when she was little. She is 5 years younger than me, so when she was born I was fascinated by her and wanted to help my Mom take care of her. I must have read this book to her a 1000 times or more, she never got tired of it. Saw it on Amazon and just had to buy it. Awesome book!
It's a children's book, I know, but a very good one actually.
LOVE IT! Another great kid's book. I can't even BEG my son into putting it down. If you need a hilarious book that will get your 3- to 7-year-old more interested in reading, Grover's got it made-to-order, as usual. You can find this book online for just a few bucks, and it might be the one that opens up the world for your little one. I still maintain that any kid who doesn't love to read just hasn't met the right book yet.(Man, I miss those skits of Grover as a waiter... They always made MY life seem better somehow)
I am sure we all three read "The Monster At The End Of This Book" because it is so expressive, it was meant to feel interactive.
--------Now that I have read this after all these years, I like it as much as I anticipated and was as impressed as I imagined, about how cleverly Grover urges readers personally; such naturally casual quips and funny asides.
His concept is unsurpassed but probably 70% of what makes this experience so riveting is Mike's unusual dimension.
If Jon planned to be engaging, Mike's pages go as far as possible to reach out and touch readers; proving Grover is interacting with us.
One of my favorite books as a child and now the same for my children. A great idea for a plot with our favorite lovable characters. I do like the first book a little better than the second one, but still worth the read!
Both my boys LOVED this book. The youngest one would literally begin vibrating with excitement as that last page drew nearer and nearer.
Every time I read this and the line has anything to do with being scared, Maddie tells me “it’s okay, mommy” and pats my arm.
The classic and best of all Golden Books!
There were many Little Golden Books on my childhood shelf growing up, but this one easily received the most wear and tear.
It was very funny, and I loved having it read aloud.
As a reader, you're being urged to stop reading and turning pages, but yet you continue on through the book.
It creates an interaction that is popular in a lot of current children's books.
Just as I previously reviewed not having a strong attachment to Goodnight Moon, this one is the opposite and enhances my rating!
I grew up reading the second version of this book, Another Monster at the end of this Book, so getting to read the original was just so enjoyable. This is definitely a fun and exciting read for kids (and adults!), and it stars “lovable, furry old Grover” so what’s not to like? I also enjoyed how Grover interacts with the readers, as this really engages little minds and makes reading even more memorable.
One of those fun books that I recall from my younger days, though I'm not sure if I owned a copy or not.Grover repeatedly warns readers to not keep reading for fear of The Monster at the End of This Book.
As you turn pages, Grover tries multiple options to keep you from reading further, only to be met with less and less success until we get to the final pages.If you haven't read this yet (it's all of 20 pages tops), I won't spoil anything.
But really it eliminates some of the fun of Grover's desperate pleas to stop turning those pages.
I'd love to do a book like this in storytime if I could perfect my Grover voice.
Classic meta text.
I had this book when I was kid, and for a children's picture book, it was really funny and easy to read. I decided to read it again for nostalgia's sake and it still holds up as a good book for kids just as much as it did back in 2001. :)
I read this with my friend's daughter. She was 4 or 5 at the time. We enjoyed it very much. I could philosophize and say, "This story signifies the problems that can arise with a prophecy," but it'd be no fun.
