https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1654900.The_Red_Knight_Of_Germany
The Red Knight of Germany: The Story of Baron von Richthofen, Germany's Great War Bird by Floyd Gibbons is an early account of the Red Baron.
Originally published in 1930, Gibbons used first-hand sources to write Richthofen's biography.
With all the recent writing of the war at its one hundred year anniversary, this book was written just twelve years after the end of the war and Richthofen death provides some of the best coverage of the air war using primary source material.
For many fighting in the air war, battle was a competition much like a boxing match.
This book was meticulously researched by American journalist Floyd Gibbons who gained access to the personal letters and papers of Manfred Richthofen, Germany’s Red Baron of World War One. The book makes fascinating reading, the subject showing himself to be an efficient killing machine.
These cups were displayed in the Red Baron’s bedroom back in Germany.
Unfortunately for the German ace, he did not get to enjoy his cup display as he, himself, was shot down before he could kill his 81st victim, a young Australian who was fleeing for his life.
Immediately after his demise, Richthofen was buried with military honors by the Allies.
Siempre me apasionó la vida del Barón Rojo. Tímido en persona, mortal en el aire. Derribó 80 aviones con su Fokker DR1 triplano COMPLETAMENTE ROJO cuando todos se camuflaban para que no los vieran. Con sus ametralladoras Spandau o Lewis (cuando piloteaba su Albatross), fue el as del aire durante la primera guerra mundial. Cuando el capitán inglés Roy Brown lo derribó en 1918, Manfred von Richtofen, casi muerto y con un balazo en el pecho, aterrizó su avión casi a la perfección. Fue enterrado con todos los honores por los mismos ingleses.
"Beloved by his people, honoured by his foes, admired by the brave, the Red Knight of Germany, whose indomitable spirit made him the greatest individual killing force in the ranks of his country's fighters, earned well the epitaph that will be ever his in the hearts of his people.He was a soldier."
Loved it Loved learning about the Red Knight of Germany , about his life and death. This is a book that everyone who loves this type of book needs to read.
Written in 1927, less than 10 years after Richthofen's death in World War I, Floyd Gibbons gives an up close look, time-wise, at the former cavalryman and avid hunter who became World War I's "Ace-of-Aces." The best part of the book is also one of its weakest.
The author tracked down and interviewed many of the pilots who survived being shot down by the Red Baron for their side of the dogfight to compare with Richthofen's own after action reports, which was fascinating.
But about halfway through, it started to feel like the book had become just a long, detailed cataloging of the Baron's 80 victories.
Fascinating story of the Red Baron. The researcher's inclusion of letters and mission reports gives us a view aside from the sterile academic description normally read. To be an effective soldier requires a mindset that it not to palatable to the general public and he was no exception. When I flew in combat we did come to treat the missions as sport and compete with each other for positive results. Danger was addressed but not dwelled upon. If personal safety was top priority then no one would ever fight in the military. Great book. Needs pictures.
I love reading old texts that are free of the current day political correctness and give between the lines insight the the attitudes and thinking of the time. This book was written shortly before Hitler's rise to power and is very in-depth concerning not only the activities of the Baron but his victims as well. It was still a time of respect when the book was written. The research that was done was amazing.
This "Story of Baron von Richthofen" started with such frenetic hyperbole that I almost put it down, but the author soon settled into a fascinating narration of the exploits and character of the Red Knight. He was not my kind of person, nor someone with whom I can identify, but it was impossible not to admire the man, and his talents.
InterestingInteresting historical read. Many details of the battles fought in the air by brave men defending their country. Very detailed.
And this biography echoes and shares to a large degree the values and mores of that champion killer and his time--Gibbons' admiration for Richthofen as a world-class hunter is obvious as he describes each of Richthofen's aerial victories with as much detail as can be gleaned from records private and military.
One aspect of Gibbon's biography that was unexpected was the author's tendency to veer off on digressions about the lives of the men Richthofen downed, as well as the men he flew with--the men he learned from as well as the men he in turn mentored.
The narrative charts the history and psychology of the former cavalryman; whom both bored and disillusioned with the ground war, effectively wrote a letter to his superiors demanding the chance to take to the skies with a view to rekindling the spirit of the chase and the lost romance of war.
An entirely welcome and engaging review of one of history's most celebrated; talented, and lethal aviators who stood at the forefront of technological advance which was used to recapture the spirit of a supposedly chivalrous past.
I received a kindle version of the book courtesy of Net Galley and the publisher with the expectation that I would write a review that I would share on my blog, Net Galley, Goodreads, Amazon, Linked In, Facebook, Twitter and Google Plus.This is a reprint of a biography of Baron von Richthofen that was written shortly after World War I.
It is the first book by Floyd Gibbons that I have read.
This book is engaging and a fairly quick read.
Gibbons does a good job of describing the "Red Baron's" life with the major focus of the book being his exploits as the ace of the German Air Force during World War I.
This book was written in the 1920s when many of the people involved with the Red Baron were still alive--including his mother.
Although all of his 'killings' were detailed and the author did a remarkable job comparing British war records with the Baron's takedowns, so much more could have been documented about the man himself.
Personally, I found his lust for murder a bit chilling--even though his actions fell under the 'legal' guise of war.
He even had trophies made and numbered for every successful attack.
His mother kept them on display in his bedroom in their family home.
My copy is Hardback 1927 edition by Garden City Publishing.
I wanted to post a 4 1/2 stars.
The book was a historical analysis of his life and exploits.
The people interviewed were numerous, his mother, his fellow flyers, several Allied pilots whom he had shot out of the skies, his commanding officers, others and his letters home.
At the time of the writing the German and Allied records where open for a detailed search.
He was credited with downing 80 planes.
Both sides would drop streamered cans containing info on the condition of the their downed pilots.
Times sure have changed.
Written originally shortly after the Red Baron's, this biography gives a detailed accounting of his 80 victories and shows a time long gone when these airmen were the Knights of their time, revered for their deeds and who battled with a code of fairness, treating their enemy with honor. on the other had, it's really depressing slogging through all those deaths: enemy airmen, his mentors, his companions, and the airmen he took under his wing.
This is a fascinating insight into one of Germany's greatest pilots. His drive and love of flying made him the hero he became; there was only one way his legend was going to end. Great book, bitted and bobbed a little but I thoroughly enjoyed it.
This book was outstanding. It held me spellbound all the way through it. The writer did a perfect job of building you up to a high level o fEnthusiasm then keeps you there and brings you back to reality slowly . outstanding. Thanks for sharing this book. Randall
Possibly THE biography of Manfred von Richtofen. Well written and replete with research materials.
This is a detailed account of the aerial combat of "The Red Baron" of Germany, during WW I. Great insight into the life of the greatest German pilot of WW I.
In English language,Inglise keeles,non-fiction,biography,war biography,WWI biography
this was not really to my liking. while it was entertaining to read I am more into the second world War books.
read some time in summer 1968
