https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2805250-one-more-river
Here ends Volume 3 of The Forsyte Chronicles.
Galsworthy managed to work at least one member of the Forsyte family into the three books of this volume.
The reader follows each of her adult nephew and two nieces through a major life-crisis, with the main focus on the middle child, Dinny.
The nephew more or less disappears after book one, but for Dinny and her sister, there are happy endings.
Galsworthy knows how to write a good story while at the same time commenting on the society of his time.
I have been reading this series (nine books and four short stories) since January 2015.
Dinny, the daughter of the Charwell/Cherrell family who was left so terribly broken hearted at the end of the previous novel has been living quietly with her family at their country home, never speaking of her lost love, though he remains in her mind.Dinny’s sister Clare had married Sir Jerry Corven during the course of Flowering Wilderness, a man considerably older and about whom Dinny had nursed private reservations.
Clare returns to England behind his back, and on the ship meets a young man Tony Croom – with whom she begins to spend a good deal of time.
I read the whole series with a GR friend (thanks for your insight, Anita!) and have really enjoyed reading about the Forsytes (although most of them are not actually very nice people) and the Charwell family in the last 3 books - who were much nicer people and made the last 3 books better than the first 6 for me!I know this doesn’t seem to be the views of most people who liked Galsworthy’s writing more in the books directly following the Forsytes, but the characters of those stories did make them a bit less enjoyable for me.
Two years ago I read The Barchester Novels. Last year it was A Dance to the Music of Time. This year I've read the whole of The Forsyte Chronicles and I'm not sure that they aren't the best of the three...and I write as a huge fan of Trollope and Powell. It feels a treat and an honour to have read them. I certainly feel a better man for having done so. I'll miss them.
BBC Audiobook, wonderful rendition of the ninth and final segment of the Forsytes family saga.
A very satisfying ending to the series. Beautifully written, as always, and quite funny at times. Galsworthy always cuts to the heart of the matter, perfectly. "It was very restful, except that one ached a bit because it was green and beautiful. Queer, that 'beauty' ache!"
As I consider that, I think how fortunate that Galsworthy and Forsyte readers were able to receive this final volume prior to Galsworthy's farewell, or should I say, it was his "Swan Song (the name of his sixth Forsyte book)".
In any case, there are many introspective passages in this book that describe, I am sure, how he felt about his native country, the tradition of marriage, love, aging, and life in general.
Mistake in our make-up, that." I believe Galsworthy felt the loss of that beauty as he experienced these final moments of his life, and, I hope, because of the beauty that he provided during his mortality that his experiences of beauty are even greater now.
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts...............................................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008........................................................................
This is the final (9th) novel in the FORSYTE CHRONICLES, and caps off the trilogy sub-set titled END OF THE CHAPTER.
Found this more engaging than Book 8.Claire Cherrill is the focus.
The novel has a lot of angst, as did book 8, but I really took to the characters.
Set in 1930s London, there are legal repercussions and a court case accusing Claire of adultery.
The author was a solicitor, and I really enjoyed insight into the process of a civil trial.I found Claire more engaging than her sister, Dinny.
A very satisfying end to the 9 book series. The lead character, Clare, is well done, an her sister Dinny, who is the heroine of the last three books, really comes into her own. The two sisters problems in love, largely due to their own particularly psychology (no spoilers here) are moving. The divorce case is dramatically rendered. And. Fleur saves the day!
All is well that ends well.This last book in the great Forsyte Saga has a little bit of everything reoccurring in these nine books - wit and snap, a woman in a bad relationship, a woman in love, court drama, Fleur being sharp as a knife, British history, a look into the future, poetry, a love letter to England...
A return to form at the end of this series which rounds off with a theme not unlike that of the opening book - matrimonial problems, the divorce courts, love and loss, peppered with a sprinkling of social issues thrown in for good measure. Satisfying.
very glad I read the chronicles. I found their 1930s attitudes the most interesting. The characters in the last 3 novels could not match the Forsyte family. But they were still very good novels. All 9 novels make one 'must read'.
You want to finish the book but you know that in doing so you come to the end of an unforgettable read.
His behaviour is literally "unspeakable" and this stiff upper lip response from Clare together with a contrasting belief in being able to live life freely and without regard for the accepted convention allows Galsworthy to paint a picture of different perspectives between young and old and the different classes.
As always the prose is wonderful highlighting Galsworthy's obvious love of the English countryside and his fascination with the emotional rollercoaster, both at personal level and across the upper middle class of the time.Superb.
The Saga concludes with a whimper.
3.6
I'm not buying itthat girl loves making them squirmplaying the coquette.
Over the River is an agreeably breezy and chatty read, like a superior soap opera, although a slightly antiseptic one by contemporary standards, being from a time when us Britishers still had fairly stiff upper lips.You can't help but fall for the plucky and admirable sisters as their lives fall into scandal and disrepair as they 'revolt against the dead wall of 'form' and those impalpable and inexorable forces of tradition'.
I will certainly make sure I read the first two parts of this End of the Chapter trilogy, then perhaps move backwards to the first three books and the Forseyte Saga proper.
Taken as a whole, the experience was both exactly what I expected - and a lot more.
I didn't expect to fall in love with him - and I didn't.
Galsworthy's prose is a delight, and his exploration of chewy social questions, particularly in the historical context, was thought-provoking and enjoyable.I'll agree with most reviewers that this final trilogy in the series lacked the meat and vinegar of the first two.
But, that said, I also found this final book in the final trilogy to be probably the weakest of the lot.
Still, as a whole, I have to give the series a solid four stars.
So I have finally managed to finish the Forsyte Saga, and it's certainly a case of a series becoming weaker and less interesting as it goes on. I enjoyed the first three books, liked the next three, and find the final three rather annoying. This one was the worst because it had not one but two women choosing to marry men not because of love or necessity but because the men had earned it somehow. I hate that trope.
These books are in many ways rather silly, but you can't help enjoying the 1920s consternations & scandals caused by our heroine spending the night in a broken-down car, and lines like: 'No one can spend a night in a car with a young man with impunity. Can they, Mother?' Oh for the elegant days when fully clothed automotive breakdown constituted the nadir of moral downfall. (Does also have this line that I love: 'They had wood fires, and their beds were comfortable.') More English than England.
Enjoyed this book. Clare runs away from a bad marriage & Dinny 'locks her heart away'. The family rally round to help. Set in the year 1932 the background describes living in the Depression.
Enjoyed this a lot despite not have read preceeding forsyte saga. A bit baffled by some 1930s abreviations - what is T.C.R as in T.C.R., bridge golf and the modernities?
Loved this entire series! Highly recommended.
A good finish to the 9 book series. No unanswered questions...
