https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7890.Betsy_s_Wedding
I can never decide which of the Betsy-Tacy books are my favorite.
I think that's because I love them all (especially the ones from her highschool years on) equally.
Betsy and Joe are (big spoilers ...) married in this one.
At the end, (view spoiler)[Joe goes off to war.
Yet another author I have to look up in Heaven (you know, assuming ...
Oh, wow, am I glad (view spoiler)[she didn't end up with Rocky!
But (view spoiler)[the guy Tib did marry was awesome for her.
(hide spoiler)]Also, I was juuuust a wee bit disappointed that (view spoiler)[Betsy and Joe didn't have a baby.
BETSY AND JOE AND BETSY AND JOE AND YES. THIS WAS THE BOOK I WANTED. Maybe I will come back here later and write actual words. Or not. Because that's a pretty accurate reaction, honestly.
So it wasn't as much like Anne's House of Dreams as I feared it would be.
Really, Tacy is the one who gets the house of dreams, and the babies.
But then it would be all right, because until Joe felt that Betsy approved (like in the case of his Aunt Ruth coming to stay with them), everything was wrong between them.
I was glad that Betsy was still Betsy, and that Tacy came into herself when she got married and had a home of her own, and Tib was still quirky and crazy.
I'm going to leave this series with Joe and Betsy dancing on the porch during Tib's wedding.
There is something immensely satisfying about this progression, although Betsy-Tacy love and devotion being what it is, I think that most of Lovelace's fans will agree with me: I wish there were at least one more novel!
We have to look to Lovelace's own life to know what happens next.One of the things that I truly appreciated about this novel was the focus on Tib - and her two unsuccessful romances before she meets the 'right' one.
The love, mutual respect and devotion of the Betsy-Joe marriage is such a great example to all of us.
9/2015 stet9/2012 Such a perfectly crafted book to end the series!
And I don't care what the rest of you say, Sally Day is a perfectly lovely child.
Perfectly lovely.
12/2009 I meant to luxuriate in this, the last book of the Betsy-Tacy series.
Joe topples mountains and swims seas for Betsy's love, and Betsy is still making lists and trying to be a better person.
I hope it's not a spoiler to say that Betsy gets married in this book, titled as it is.
The crowd dances through this book, and the sentimental, happy ending strikes just the right tone for the end of the series.
I didn't want it to end.
I also love seeing Margaret all grown up - she became one of my favorite characters in this series.
Some of the changes Maud made were very interesting - like Bick didn't marry Charley until 1920, which was ten years after high school and three years *after* Maud and Delos and Midge and Charles.
Marked contrast to the books, where Tacy got married a handful of years out of high school, several years before Betsy, who was married a few years before Tib. I really need to track down Companions to this series and read more of the real events!
They settle down in Minneapolis, near Betsy’s family, and begin their life together, and it’s adorable and sweet and profound, just like the rest of the books.One that that has been incredibly annoying is that all the forewords of these beautiful new editions are invariably written by a rabid feminist who insists that Lovelace was a rabid feminist as well (apparently because she wrote about girls who were happy and not very good at cooking), so hopefully you will excuse me while I address a few of the issues raised on this topic.First off, the foreword of this book insists that Betsy is a wonderful example of a feminist because she always wanted to be a writer, not a housewife.
The story continues to shows Betsy's faithfulness to her family, friends, and now her husband, while giving a glimpse of life in the World War I era.
One thing that always impressed me about this book is how Betsy manages to defer to Joe during times of crisis without losing her identity.
She once wrote to a fan, "Delos and I found that marrying each other was the perfect solution to life." You can tell she meant it after reading this book.
The Betsy-Tacy books were highly autobiographical and Lovelace perfectly captures the innocence and magic of childhood.
Miss Lovelace describes very well Betsy's observant intelligence as she both learns to cook, for example, and closely examines the "first apartment's" elm tree through the seasons.
Yet, I do not feel that I need to read another volume: The portrayal of Betsy is so strong in this last book that the reader can extrapolate her future with satisfaction on his/her own.I do not have the feeling that the book closes a volume on Joe's life.
Here, his sadness and conflict are well depicted, albeit briefly, until the coherence of his and Betsy's values open up the future.This book presents Miss Lovelace's writing at its best.
All she can think about is Joe. And there he is, cane in hand, hair so blonde it's almost silver, meeting her at the boat.
In many ways Joe is the perfect husband.
A visit to church sets her on the right path and Joe's aunt living with them while she is grieving the loss of her store ends up being one of the best thing that happens to the young couple.Tacy has a baby and an attentive husband.
But Tib. Poor Tib. Diminutive, professional, impatient, gorgeous, Tib is tired of young men thinking she is dumb and easy because she is blonde and petite.
Betsy comes home from Europe to a whirlwind marriage with her soulmate, Joe Willard, at long last.
Meanwhile Joe works at the newspaper, money's tight, Tacy's raising her son and Tib, as always, is flitting around to wherever the fun's at.
And in the end, Joe goes off to fight in World War I, promising that when he comes home they will continue to write together, and publish, and be the authors they always knew they would be.(And since these stories are autobiographical, and since Maud and Delos Lovelace wrote many things together after the war, we can take comfort in knowing it's true.)
One of my favorite books EVER.
If you haven't read any Betsy-Tacy, I advise you to start now.
If you're not up for the "kid lit" that is the first 5 or 6 books, start with Heaven to Betsy and read on to the end.
Her semi-autobiographical character, Betsy, is one of the finest characters I have ever come across--a truly good person, loving, always wanting to be better and to be kind to others.
Love Tacy too, of course, and Joe, and pretty much all the characters in all the books (except for Rocky and Phil Brandish of course).
in which betsy comes home from europe and marries jooooooooe!!and they buy a cute little house.and try to set up tib with a new york millionaire.and join a writing group and sell their stories to magazines.and aunt ruth moves in with them.
(i love this part.
i love how betsy didn't want it to happen but she knew that joe wouldn't be joe unless he took care of his aunt, and it all turned out ok!!)and america goes to war.
it is so interesting to me how different the attitude was towards worlds wars I & II compared to wars our country fights today.i'm so sad that the series is done.
Elizabeth, I agree with you that this a bittersweet book. My buddy Betsy was all grown up and married. It is a sweet story and I love the struggles they face. I also belong to Shelfari and some of us started talking about the B/T books and how we discovered them.
A great end to a beloved series!
But then he gets prettier, and all is forgiven.Then, of course, Betsy and Tacy get to be Smug Married Women together and decide to make still-not-married, independent Tib their new matchmaking project...all because they are OBSESSED with being bridesmaids at her wedding.
Betsy and Tacy act like she just singlehandedly ended world hunger.When America enters the First World War in 1917, Joe enlists in the Army.
We never find out if Joe really does make it through the war, because the book ends at Tib's wedding reception.
This charming turn of the 20th century Minnesotan girl satisfied all my comfort reading desires: old-fashioned and Midwestern families; a childhood sweetheart-cum-adult lover; gobs of buttery, meaty, potatoey food porn; silk dresses, hair ribbons, and fur muffs; and most importantly, girls with ambition, girls who aspire to be more than a wife.
There are superficial references to Betsy’s writing but it’s all secondary.
It’s then surprising that Betsy is so enfeebled at the story’s end considering Maud herself found remarkable career success with these books.
who will always be my favorite no-nonsense German waif!) but they will not supersede the Little House or Anne of Green Gables books as my favorite old-timey comfort reads.
Betsy and Joe finally marry and we get to see the first 3 years of their married life.
I enjoyed every bit of it.
A wonderful book to end a great series.Favorite parts: Joe.
:-) Betsy's experience of Aunt Ruth coming.
Betsy learning to be a homemaker.
Hmm--I guess that makes it the whole book, huh?
I had read a bit about what was Maud's real life, so I enjoyed knowing that as I read through this time.
So much love for these characters and their experiences.
I enjoyed this even more after recently going through my Goddess weekend--this book fits that perfectly!
This book only gets better and better for me and I continue to revel in the "rightness" of Betsy and Joe together.
3-3-09 review:"After a while he went back to the bacon." Chose to re-read this in honor of my sister's wedding.
The older I get, the more I treasure it.
It's inspiring and just plain fun to watch Betsy and Joe settle into married life.
The other day someone was describing her ex-boyfriend and I almost shouted out, "You were dating a Rocky!" Prior read: 2-20-06
Another Yuletide re-read!
This is the last book in the Betsy-Tacy series and, despite the title, is far more about the marriage than the wedding.
Which I love!
I'm such a sucker for what happens after the "happy ending." And it seems to me to depict marriage in a very realistic way.
They have problems, but work through them.
And it's really awesome to see Betsy pursue her writing ambition at a time when women were mostly housewives.And it's set right before the US's entrance into World War I, so that adds a nice layer of tension to the book.Re-read November 2014
(view spoiler)["Nothing in the whole world could come between you and me, Betsy. We're . . . woven together. You know that. And darling, when I come back we'll have our little home again. We'll have Bettina.""How do you know all these things?" Betsy asked through her tears."I know," he said. "I feel it in my bones." (hide spoiler)]No words at the moment. Just extreme joy. I want to draw hearts all over this book.
Sigh. Betsy and Joe will from now on definitely feature in my list of favourite fictional characters. They are the best.
This was a bittersweet read for me. Betsy grew up and got married. It was also said because this was the last book in the series and I never wanted it to end.
I love this book every time I read it!
It’s nice to see everyone grown up and yet still themselves; Tib is still gloriously quirky, Tacy now finally seems confident in who she is and the role of wife and mother suits her perfectly, and Betsy is still a writer, still laughs at herself, and is still learning from her mistakes.
Molly and I didn’t appreciate the pressure we felt from married Betsy and Tacy toward Tib to join their ranks.
However, this was 100 years ago and obviously there are a lot of old-fashioned gender roles in a book in which the main characters marry and learn how to become “domestic”.
It really bothered me!On to the book, and it's a great one.
Betsy is home from the great wild world and we see her embark on this new life with Joe before WWI really takes over the United States.
It's such an endearing marriage, too.I am not like others who find Betsy too dependent on the men in her life.
She's married to Joe, someone who cares for her and is eager to help her be the best version of herself, too.All in all a lovely way to wrap up the series.
Betsy and Joe are married early in this book, Tacy has two children and other than a few moments of matchmaking with Betsy for Tib, she is a mostly silent friend.
Tob's main purpose is to find a husband.
For example, Betsy a writer has yet to actually write or publish any works on her own since a brief mention in book #9, even though Maud Hart Lovelace is clearly writing often in her early marriage to her husband and prior to her marriage.
It’s bittersweet to finally be at the end of this series. The first three books brought me so much joy as a child, and then discovering for the first time the entire series, as I’ve read them aloud to both girls, has only deepened that joy. For the time period, for the subject matter, we found these books unexpectedly progressive and thoughtful in small ways and so full of warmth and good humor. I’m thrilled to have shining examples for all three of us of healthy friendships which allow for growth and change.
This is the end of the Betsy-Tacy series -- and very satisfying. Betsy gets married to Joe and it is fascinating to see what young marriage is like in America 100 years ago. It ends with America joining WW1.
