https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/866318.A_Guilty_Thing_Surprised
5 Hours 30 MinsDescription: The discovery of Elizabeth Nightingale's broken body in the woods near her home could not have come as a bigger shock.
Called in to investigate, Chief Inspector Wexford quickly determines that the Nightingales were considered the perfect couple - wealthy, attractive and without an enemy in the world.
However, someone must have been alone with Elizabeth that night in the woods.
Sorting it all out is the ever-capable Wexford with his younger, and often overly-prudish and prejudicial sidekick, Burden.
The pair are great, with the younger one more locked into tradition and the way 'life should be,' and the older the more forward-looking and open-minded one.
(It's backward from the usual format for a detective or mystery novel, which is a treat in this series, even from a book written 40 years ago.)There are clues upon clue; psychological insights enough to drive anyone crazy; and yet it's short, crisply-written, and simply an elegant and perfect mystery.I shall continue on my Wexford journey ...
A perfectly fine mystery. The audiobook narrator was good, and the story clipped along at a satisfying pace. I had sort of figured it out partway through, but it wasn't super obvious at the beginning, and there were a few good red herrings in there.
3 1/2 Stars
Rendell's 'A Guilty Thing Surprised' begins as a very good mystery but ends with a thud.Rendell sets up the story in a section of town with a small bundle of characters and proceeds through each forth and back again recording their story. The characters are good and the plotting seems well done. Then Rendell wraps up the last few pages with a weird little messy solution that, seemed to me, a desperate way to end a story differently.The setting is well done and, otherwise plotted well.Bottom line: I don't recommend this book. 5 out of 5 points.
Ruth Rendell's off kilter charactersmake the most interesting stories.Best in the series so far.Narrator Christopher Ravenscroft was ok.Not exactly clean. Mild language.
I posthaste dive into another crime mystery book have stocked in my reader - this book.
But some characters' presence seem superfluous, in that they can be scrapped out from the book without affecting the story in a major way.As usual, Rendell scatters pearls of quotes in her book and forms sentence with the highest degree of beauty, which somehow fits well with her narrative without giving it any pretentious feel and succeeds in delivering the information and nuance to her readers.
Read this book if you enjoy crime novels in which all gory and ugliness is hidden beneath a pretty, respectable facade.
There's a certain amount of wit that I feel is lacking here, despite erudite nature of the story.A Guilty Thing Surprised is a novel that features Chief Inspector Wexford and Inspector Burden investigating the murder of Elizabeth Nightingale, the mistress of a manor that only seems genteel on the surface.
The final clue to the murderer's identity is certainly transgressive, but the expository nature of the reveal dampened whatever reaction I may have had about the facts.I will have to examine my preference for older cozies at a later time, because it's something that has become more evident as I continue reading mysteries.

A GU8ILTY THING SURPRISED.
Ruth Rendell.
****.This was one of the author’s Inspector Wexford novels, and likely one of the best.
The story starts off with a simple plot: Elizabeth and Quentin Nightengale lived quite contentedly at Myfleet Manor in the English countryside.
Elizabeth had a habit of taking a walk through their woods in the evening as a form of relaxing from the day’s worries.
The peace of the neighborhood was shattered, however, when her dead body was found off one of the paths.
Inspector Wexford and his able assistant, Burden, take on the task of determining the killer.
This is good stuff from Rendell.
I started reading these because I wanted some cozy English mysteries. Rendell writes about manors and sherry and so on, but then we end up with things like unhinged repressed lesbians, knife-wielding sexual sadists, and wackadoodle incest affairs. These things wouldn't happen to Peter Wimsey! I don't think they'd even happen to Dalgliesh.I'm not sure I'm complaining, per se, I've just been surprised.
Going back to read this Inspector Wexford mystery, written in 1970, was rather odd. I've come to know Wexford and Burden as much different, more fully developed characters. I liked them much less in this story.Rendell has obviously grown quite a bit as a writer. There are bits that are a bit wooden and not at all nuanced. It's not a bad story, and in a way it makes me want to go back and read the entire arc of the Wexford storyline. But definitely not as good as the more recent books.
A gruesome story, but compared to the stories published today by Nordic writers A Guilty Thing Surprised do not impact . About the story, I would emphasize the personality of Inspector Wexford, this time it is not described as an old grumpy, Ruth Rendell describes him as a man nostalgic for his lost youth but also permissive and liberal. Unfortunately Burden continuous without showing to the Rendell's readers other nuances of his personality... always so puritanical and prudish.
I was on to the right idea, but couldn't put it all together, but neither did Wexford until a sleepless night opened his eyes A nice bit of detection.
Well-crafted, quick read, too many typos -- for shame Ballantine.
Una novela muy bien escrita, con un argumento que te mantiene intrigad@ de principio a fin.
Inspector Wexford #5.
I think this is the first one in the series I've consistently enjoyed, even if I'd come to the reasoning behind the murder early on.It starts almost like a Christie novel, setting a very English well off social setting in play with a small but memorable cast of characters, though by the end it becomes more salacious.
He comes across eminently likeable, empathic, forward thinking and open, albeit in a curmudgeonly way.
He still seems to solve everything suddenly with little reasoning and the ending was a little unsatisfying but everything up to here was promising.
I'm hoping there's further development of their characters as I read through.
One of these mysteries that is a little unsavory and all about the evils of humankind. I happened to read this alongside another mystery novel whose 'solve' was an incestuous relationship motivating the murder as well, which made me kind of throw up my hands. Is this the only solve possible for an idyllic British village, that carries just the right amount of taboo and good-gone-bad to be poetic? Whats with all the incest solves?!!?Also the detectives and whatnot were ambiguous characters. Not my jam.
Good - unsurprisingly!As always, an interesting, well paced read. Good characterisation and a number of twists and turns. Even though it is set (I think) in the sixties or seventies, on the whole it travels well.Definitely recommended.
The earlier Wexford books are kind of excruciating. In other news: I got through them!I recommend him from the 1990s on. Except that god awful Monster one.
Interesting, however I guessed part of the mystery right away ;)However maybe in the middle of the last century it wasn't that obvious.
Intefesting read.
Wexford #5The Fifth Wexford. The best so far. This one had me guessing and assuming to the end. Some fun characters reside. On to number 6!
Ruth Rendall never disappoints. Always a gripping mystery, well written and satisfying to read. I was able to get about 5 paperbacks from Barter Books in England when I was there in October 2016. I have read all the Ruth Rendall books in my local library.
I was surprised as the title suggested. I really didn't expect the ending of this book.
Rendell never disappoints me. An easy book to start reading and fall into. Outcome of mystery disgusting but not so obvious that I solved tit easily and early. This read like another favorite author of mine, Graham Greene. Good.
Pretty good. Fair amount of clues about murderer.
It's saving grace is really the additional thematic dimension that I feel necessary to genre fiction, and Rendell touches here on notions of sibling rivalry and the question of morality in terms of sexual freedom.The somewhat older than middle-aged Chief Inspector Wexford appears fairly liberal, whereas his thirty-something year-old partner Inspector Burden is flat-out conservative, so their opinions on sexual behaviour differ greatly, as does their impressions of the sexual aspects of their current case.
Half-way through the book Wexford appears very human despite being the novel's, and the series's, chief hero.
I do love a good Ruth Rendell book, and a strong (Chief) Inspector Wexford tale in particular.
This, the fifth Wexford story, sees the man himself somewhere between the hard-nosed and frequently rude and bad-tempered upholder of the law, and the thoughtful, cultured, poetry-quoting senior detective he morphed into as Rendell hit her stride.
However, her ability to tell a great detective story remains as strong as ever – no development needed there!I won’t give too much away about the plot itself – that would be unfair in a review of a mystery tale.
