https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8592946-one-thousand-gifts
I don't like most poetry either and that is likely the problem as the book is written in a mystical, image-laden, drippy, free form poetical style, with long descriptions and odd metaphors and cutesy nicknames - instead of names - for every person in her family.
It did nothing for me spiritually because it was so hard to read/relate to.I should say that I've done gratitude journals for years.
That has helped me immensely over the years, both personally and spiritually.
For people who like her writing style, it is probably spiritually helpful.
If you don't like her writing style, just start a gratitude journal, keep at it, and you'll be surprised how much it changes you/the way you live.
Things I liked about this book:1.
Some of the sentences are beautifully crafted.Things I did not like about this book:1.
This is an actual sentence: "I fly to Paris and discover how to make love to God."I'm sorry.
I got the heebie jeebies.All in all, I felt like this book was just some self-important drivel from someone who thinks that God's plan is for everyone to bear six children (she refers to her globe-trotting cool aunt merely as "childless"), live on a farm, and have time to contemplate how gorgeous sunlight hitting suds "in sink" is.
Navel gazing at its worst, and I sort of finished the book wanting to force her to watch "The Office" or something so she could speak like an actual human.
(Warning - review sent to family, not edited to protect the feelings of my friends who have read this and may like it...)I finally, just shy of 7 full months, finished One Thousand Gifts by Ann Voskamp (actually one thousand gifts, looking more closely at the cover).
She does have some good and interesting views on living the Christian life fully, with total gratitude for what God gives you (hence looking for 1000 things for which to be grateful).
So, you may find the book worth reading, if only for the references to other people like CS Lewis and Henri Nouwen.
My favorite blogger has finally written a book! Her writing style is unusual but captivating, so full of description and passion. I devoured this book in about 12 hours the first time I read it, a child running along the beach picking up shell after shell, each one prettier than the last. Then I went back and savored it more slowly, turning over the beautiful truths one at a time to be carefully thought about and applied to my everyday living. Than also read and enjoyed it, to my suprise. Highly recommended.
What, at first, I enjoyed about this book is what eventually became tedious and labor-some. There is no question that Voskamp is adept at constructing flowery and poetic prose. Unfortunately, for my taste, her style became a bit too much to digest. While I am moved and inspired by her work's powerful message on the importance of gratitude and communion with a gracious and loving heavenly father, her delivery often kept me from truly enjoying the experience of reading what she was communicating.
I got it home and was intrigued by Ann's style and how she she had tapped into something I had been feeling in the years following a bout with cancer...a spirit of thankfulness and knowing everything is by the grace of God. Reading through this book I realize I am not alone.
Having spent a lot of time reading male writers and theology books in general, Ann is full of emotion and life.
Having given birth to six children and is in the process of homeschooling them--Ann draws from these experience and finds God's grace in the chaos.
Deeply troubling from a theological perspective.
Quite often mystical, with a near wringing-out of a thesis (eucharisteo), repeated multiple times per page.
Quotes pulled from all over, various denominations (and even other religions!), all mashed together in the to-her radical notion that life should be lived in thankfulness.
Why is this notion so life-altering for Voskamp and the hoards of women nearly breathless in awe at this book?
Is Scripture not full of God's people giving thanks in all things, no matter the circumstance?
What is missing from the pulpit for these women, I wonder?
Why is this so shocking in its revelation?
Euchristeo is the challenge of this book; learning to exprsss thanksgiving to God for ALL his gifts in all aspects of our life, To learn to live open to give thanks and to receive the miracle of joy in our lives, just as Jesus took the break, broke it and gave thanks and THEN the miracle took place.
Voskamp's writing style is a bit tedious at times because she is very poetic and somewhat mystical.
I just cannot finish this book.
It's boring and I have to force myself to read it.Also, the guilt.
I feel guilty for being irritated and in a bad mood instead of noticing the beauty of the sunlight as it reflects through my ice water.
I feel guilty for having a bad attitude about this stupid book when everyone else seems to love it.
I FEEL SO GUILTY ALL THE TIME!!!I might try and read bits here and there as my friends finish going through it this summer, but I'm tired of pretending.
The writing is at times achingly poetic...I had to read so many parts to my husband just for their sheer beauty.
Nails driving out my habits of discontentment and driving in my habit of eucharisteo (giving thanks).
And if I want the fullest life, I need to find the fullest time.
...God gives us time.
And I've an inkling that there are times when we need to drive a long, long distance, before we can look back and see God's back in the rearview mirror.
It is a book about opening up your life to the JOY that God wants you to have.
1/3rd of the book: I LOVED her poetic prose.
Her prose is kind of getting irritating.
How many times can we repeat "eucharisteo"?3/3rd: Why am I still reading this?
(Side note: I really hated how it was always "the lungs ache," not "my lungs ache." Drove me crazy.) Honestly, I don't feel like I really learned or got anything out of this book.
Especially when she wrote about interactions with her kids (i.e. the toast story), how did that turn out?
I will never know, and it bugs me.
At least now I know what "eucharisteo" means.
I do think I need daily to be conscious of God's blessings, both big and small.
There were parts of this that truly were beautiful and moving.
But also, there were parts that I felt went on too long and I had to force myself through (the moon thing).
I disagree with some of her assumptions, and I think her picture of God is a little off kilter, unbalanced.
Some parts sounded almost like they could have come right out of Captivating: Unveiling the Mystery of a Woman's Soul, another book that didn't always sit right with me.
But I think I would like her if I met her in person.
I’m not saying grace isn’t present in suffering...absolutely God makes himself and His grace known to us in special ways during suffering and difficulties and he works out all things for his glory and our good, but there’s a difference in knowing God’s grace during suffering and seeing bad things as actual grace.
And to focus on just finding things in nature and life to be thankful for before grounding readers in where true grace and forgiveness come from, puts the cart in front of the horse.The decision to publish the book also gets me a little (I know this sounds weird!).
Great content. Frequent disregard for parts of speech distracting.
by the end of the book (not finding fault with the theology or the daily examples) i concluded that my best recommendation would be: read it slowly.
so relax the concentration of the entire book by staying with it but little bits at a time.
the (true) wisdom that is contained in this book might actually work better that way.
another thought: taking the sacramental life of every day and working it too hard with all those words deflates the joy in True Presence, imo.
They just wanted a point and wanted it in a forthright manner.If, however, you want a book that meanders, that stops mid-sentence with a point, only to have the author look at the light casting an iridescent glow in a soap bubble while the author does dishes - you will love this book.I believe Voskamp's style of writing is intentional because she is trying to prove a point, as she writes on page 107, "For all real answers, don't they come in strata, gradations of understanding?"Life, its purpose, the whys, does not come delivered or summed up easily.
Her Mennonite heritage has served her well, even when walking very dark paths.Sensitive readers will be both broken and inspired by Voskamp's memoir of her journey from grief-stricken witness of the death of her sister, self-mutilation, agoraphobia and deep emotional torment.
For me, it was best to read one chapter at a time, process what was written and then return when ready for another drink.Highly recommended.I suspect this work will become a classic from our time.
The beginning paragraph was captivating, engrossing, and so very poetic, I knew I wanted to read more.By the end of the 1st chapter, I’m already in tears.
But fully, completely involved in the story, in the pain, and in the questions…I want to read more.By page 40 I can’t seem to stop reading, I lose sense of all around me and am completely immersed in her words, her beautiful, mesmerizing prose.By page 122, I’m feeling filled up, inspired, excited to participate in my own life with the vigor the author is expressing in hers.
On the whole, though, my soul craves this type of writing, this making of beauty in the mundane of life.
I so tire of the "hey, girlfriend, grab yourself a latte, and let me tell you how special you are!" type of books.
That gratitude begets joy and more gratitude, and yes, life is hard, but God is still good and joy is still there for the taking because of His goodness.I highlighted many lines and passages in my Kindle, and I'll definitely be looking for a hard copy of this book for my shelves.
I read this book as part of my Lent project this year.
It's about being grateful, even amidst the stress of every day life, and how that can change your perspective and bring you closer to God. It has a great message - found myself jotting certain phrases down while I was listening.
Her writing is not great though, which is why this book only gets 3 stars.
Instead she'd go on to say the same thing again about 15 different ways, and I'd feel like the point almost gets lost in the extra 5 minutes of reading.
Then I read that this woman who says no to "inspirational" non-fiction said yes to One Thousand Gifts.And then I found my way to A Holy Experience.And lastly I ended up at She Speaks, where I heard her speak, and I took notes and I laughed and I cried and at the end, I finally bought the book.I'm oh-so-glad that I did.There is little I feel I can write that hasn't already been written so many times it sounds cliche and worn-out.
One Thousand Gifts is achingly real.
One Thousand Gifts will change your life (if you let it).
The description of the accident that caused Aimee's death begins the book "One Thousand Gifts".Ann becomes a Christian when she is 16, but is haunted by her continued grief and inability to get past the death of her sister.
She focuses on "eucharisteo", thanksgiving to God. She begins making a list of "1000 things that she loves" and thanking God for them.
By the end of the book she is able to go to Aimee's gravestone and be thankful for her sister, even though she doesn't understand why Aimee died.I applaud Ann for being a farmer's wife, Lord knows we need more of them.
I like the basic premise behind this book, but I admit I felt like the author was trying to be a little too poetic.For example:"His brother rages red and I'm sucker punched and it's toast, yes, but isn't it his heart and I shake the head stunned, losing words, and the child I ripened with, bore down and birthed from the heart, he turns on a Tuesday, tears out a few more of the pulsing chunks and where did I go so wrong?
I felt like it was less of a "dare" and more a lengthy monologue offlowery words.
Beautiful writing but she is wrong and unbiblical in many of her musings.
I agree with the overall theme that we should give thanks to God in all circumstances.
However, that thankfulness is not salvation, and the fall was so much more than a result of "ungratefulness" to God, as she she seems to claim.
And so much more that she states just resonated as wrong to me.
Even if we do not have bright spots of beauty in our life to write on a list, or simply do not see them because of difficult circumstances, we should be thankful to God for simply who he is, not just his blessings.
Can I give less than 1 star? This was a very forced attempt at turning mundane things into poetry for pages and pages and pages. Utter garbage. It reads like she's copying lists of words from a thesaurus-- get over yourself and wash the darn dishes instead of gazing at the bubble shape with drug-like fascination for forty pages. Then the last chapter when she's having mental/verbal sex with Jesus... Ummm, speechless. This lady has severe issues. How did anyone ever see this book as anything but disturbed and blasphemous? Absolutely detest.
I first heard of Voskamp several years ago when I was looking for a read aloud geography book for my daughter, for home school.
We loved that book and read it through.
A lot of goodreads reviewers criticized Voskamp's writing style.
And when I saw these criticisms it hindered me a bit, made me wonder if I want to bother w/reading it.
Voskamp's writing style, at least in this book, is over the top poetic, and frankly it gets irritating.
And so if I were the editor I'd say, 'make up your mind which way ya want to go lady." Either keep the idiosyncratic style throughout the book or hang it up...
I slowly learned to slow down, enjoy the moment,thank Jesus for everything.Even the tiny little details and the most mundane, ordinary thigns in day to day living.I began to see the good in everything.My eyes were opened to now see the blessings in front of me.These gifts from God.Ann's writing is beautifully poetic, gracious and incredibly honest.She faced her fears, one by one.She gave up control and gave it to God.She inspired me to do the same.Each chapter brought a fresh batch of tears as I read of her struggles, trials, sorrows and joys.
As a photographer, I attempt to capture beauty and joy in every moment and often feel foolish and crazy and silly for doing so.I have discovered Eucharisteo in everything.And it is everywhere I look.This book may very well change your life.It did mine.
Wow. I took about a year and a half to read this. But I have to say that the writing was absolutely beautiful and so poetic. This was a really insightful read.
. All is grace only because all can transfigure” (100-101).“I’ve got to get this thing, what it means to trust, to gut-believe in the good touch of God toward me, because it’s true” (146).“How can I trust when a troubled, joy-shriveled heart has pumped fear through the stiff veins of all my years?” (146).“How would eucharisteo help me trust?” (147).“This living a lifestyle of intentional gratitude became an unintentional test in the the trustworthiness of God—and in counting blessings I stumbled upon the way out of fear” (151).“The sun sets and He has provided and you’ve ate.
Judging by her popularity and all of the 5 stars that I see on Goodreads from Christian friends of mine, I guess she succeeds at that!I don't know if Voskamp is aware of the un-Biblical New Age thoughts that run like a thread through this work.
In fact, I couldn't give it even two stars because that means "it's okay," but the New Age belief system that cunningly creeps into this book is not okay.If my friends who love this get mad at me for this review, consider this sentence from the book: "I fly to Paris and discover how to make love to God." Really?
