https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34941.The_Phantom_Menace
Here come the prequels!  JEDI AND SITH MEET AGAIN! During the Original Trilogy of Star Wars, we find out a detail here and another there, about what happened to the Republic and the rise of the Empire.Of course, those little details, matter not much, since after all, good ol’ Georgie wrote what he wanted in the prequels, not matter if they were contradictory with the previous released information in the original trilogy. For thousand years, peace had prevailed in the galaxy and the Republic was
However, I think that the whole trouble of being stranded in Tatooine could be managed better (but of course, we wouldn’t have Star Wars, so maybe it wasn’t shortsight, but things that should happen in benefit of the story), since they need a spare part to fix their Nubian cruiser and the Republic money wasn’t good in Tatooine……but hey!
Terry Brooks, of course, is an accomplished author and did not hurt his reputation with this novel.One major shortcoming of both book and movie (and therefore probably Lucas', rather than Brook's, fault) came into clearer focus in the book.
Not Anakin, who thinks he loves her and is the most Force-sensitive person ever, and not two trained Jedi.
And to add insult to injury, Brooks tells us R2-D2 was the first to recognize Padme as Amidala.
Too funny.Not to mention that Jedi Masters can stand right next to Palpatine and not recognize who/what he is.
Enjoyed this way more than I was expecting. I feel like I actually know what goes on in episode 1 now and what Lucas was trying to achieve.
At the same time, on desert-swept Tatooine, a slave boy named Anakin Skywalker, who possesses a strange ability for understanding the “rightness” of things, toils by day and dreams by night—of becoming a Jedi Knight and finding a way to win freedom for himself and his beloved mother.
It will be the unexpected meeting of Jedi, Queen, and a gifted boy that will mark the start of a drama that will become legend.
These are only two of the myriad of minor questions you might have if you just watched The Phantom Menace.I also liked the insight into characters like Obi-Wan Kenobi (who was irritated by his master's constantly bringing along people for no reason), Qui-Gon (who rebelled because he felt the Force), Jar Jar (who really wasn't as stupid as the movie portrayed him), and Anakin (we get to see some of his dreams, which eerily reminds us of Clones).Brooks has a nice writing style, easy to understand, nice to listen to, good pacing, and nice descriptions.
Also, where the film fails to explain how or where Anakin learns to fly, the book explains such matters in detail.I would recommend The Phantom Menace to all Star Wars fans simply becuase it fills in the gaps of narrative information that we don't get in the film, much of which I might add is actually information that George Lucas couldn't squeeze into the film due to its truncated running time and haphazard storytelling.
There is some obscure Sith-lore to be found in this book that will peek the interest of Star Wars fans.
I'm going to play the ultimate nerd contrarian and admit that I love this movie and novelization. It's probably just heavy nostalgia for one of my last pre-puberty summers, but I'm ok with that.
There's an interesting re-edit of Star Wars Episode 1: The Phantom Menace out there, called The Phantom Edit.
It's one person's edit of the original movie, with as much of the moronic Jar-Jar, annoying Anakin, and redundant storyline removed as possible.
The additional plot explanations are welcome, but those mainly manage to expose the absurdity of the storyline to the reader.This is not how to treat Star Wars.
This is Star Wars for 7-year-olds.
For excellent examples of how to treat Star Wars in book form, see virtually anything by Timothy Zahn.
“In this life you're often born one thing and die another. You don't have to accept that what you're given when you come in is all you'll have when you leave.” With this being said by an old pilot, we witness Anakin's change of life right before our eyes. From being a slave on a desert planet he becomes a new Padawan-learner at the age of nine. Which is, in terms of the Council, old, but destined to be the Chosen One, the Council accepts him. Therefore, he should be the one to bring balance to
We see the changes Anakin Skywalker goes through, without his mom, leaving his home planet and his old life behind and being prepared for a new one, without knowing the consequences, but doing it anyway, because this is the only thing he ever wanted, he ever dreamed of.
Things I've missed in the movies were found here.This book has so many point of views, which is great in this situation, because we follow all the important characters and get to know every corner of the story.
Considering this is based on a movie that has some pretty bad dialogue and some serious pacing issues, it isn't actually that bad of a read. It's a pretty quick read, which is also good because nothing feels too drawn out, and it also lets you into the characters heads a bit more.
Lots of action. A fun read. I've never seen the first movie.
I read this first before I watched the movie and I gotta say, I did the right thing. :)
Well this was 100% more satisfying to me than watching the movie. Padme was a much stronger character, Anakin was more inspiring, Obi Wan was more interesting and Qui Gon was more complex. The whole thing was great.The Jedi Knights were peacemakers; that was the nature of their order and the dictate of their creed. For thousands of years they had served the Republic, a constant source of stability and order in a changing universe.  She was young, but it was rumored she was prodigiously talented
For thousands of years they had served the Republic, a constant source of stability and order in a changing universe.
It was said she could be circumspect or bold when necessary, and was wise beyond her years.
“Well, I’m afraid I can’t marry you…” Padme paused, searching her memory for his name.“Anakin,” he said.“Anakin.” She cocked her head.
“I won’t always be,” he said quietly.
“The Republic doesn’t exist out here,” Shmi Skywalker interrupted quickly, her voice hard.
Anakin Skywalker wasn’t afraid of anything.
“You have been well trained, my young apprentice,” Darth Sidious soothed.
“The Jedi will be no match for you.
2.5 stars. Filled bits of the movie out some, but still suffers from being The Phantom Menace.
Pokémon cards were the primary source of one's superiority; sharing a bedroom with a bunch of other boys was not yet an eyebrow-raiser; the prospect of working through the holidays was little more than a sick joke; and 'Star Wars: The Phantom Menace' was the greatest movie of all time.
But I do remember liking the book.
For anyone who ever played that awesome computer game, which was licensed by the movie, and allows you to play through multiple characters, doing shit that never happened in the film - I can only compare this book to that.
Ich hatte noch nie einen Roman der direkt nach einem Film geschrieben wurde gelesen, wollte das aber gerne mal ausprobieren - und schwupps war “Star Wars, Episode I: Die dunkle Bedrohung“ als Rezensionsexemplar angefragt.Mein erster Eindruck zu dem Buch war erst einmal positive Überraschung.
Ich habe schon ein paar Star Wars Merchandising-Bücher gelesen, und obwohl ich immer Spaß daran hatte war es mehr der “Star Wars”-Aspekt, der mich das Buch mögen ließ, als dessen tatsächliche literarische Qualität.Der Beginn dieses Buches ist in dieser Hinsicht sehr vielversprechend, vor allem vom Schreibstil war ich angenehm beeindruckt.
There are also a couple of side stories, particularly pertaining to Anakin’s life on Tatooine, that can be seen as both good additions or unnecessary distractions – on the one hand, for those wishing to know a little more on the details of Anakin’s life on Tatooine, and seeking out entirely new material that did not appear in the film, these side stories will be welcome diversions, but on the other hand, the experienced Star Wars fan will know perfectly well that they are completely unnecessary to the main story, and especially if you find young Anakin as a character rather dull, it is possible to become somewhat impatient with these sections of the book.
This is a pretty solid adaptation from Terry Brooks who is most known for his Shannara novels.
These sorts of adaptations can be insights as to how the eventual movie gets made.
That's how Brooks presents it to us, and while it does work in the novel, it probably would have vilified The Phantom Menace for Star Wars fans more so than it already is.
(It's honestly not that bad of a movie folks--it's no Attack of the Clones.These novelizations are still canonical Star Wars and there's extra nuggets here that rabid fans will probably want to check out (if they haven't already.)
This book, to me, was mostly a pointless rehash of a mediocre (at best) movie, but without the impressive special effects that made the movie worth seeing...once.I read this only because my sister claimed it would would make me like Jar-Jar, or at least empathize with him. It did not. I would rather the Jedis had to carry around a bucket of feces than have Jar-Jar tag along with them. It would have been funnier than Jar-Jar's so called catch-phrase spouting comic relief, and it would have been only slightly more incomprehensible.
I really enjoyed this book!
It's a great edition to the Star Wars expanded universe, both new and Legends.
Though I could have used less Gungans...always less Gungans!
You get a lot more from Anakin than you do in the movie which helps to add to his ultimate journey to the Dark Side.
And the tension between Yoda and Qui-Gonn was really palpable in the book, while it's only sort of hinted at in the movie.
All in all, I really enjoyed this book and felt that it filled in a lot of the blanks left by the movie.
I Love the book and the movie. And this book is basically the same as the film, except greatly expanded. And, of course, the book allows us to get into the heads of the characters and find out what they are thinking. The best thing about the novelization is the added scenes, the scenes cut from the film, and the background information.
Star Wars: Episode I: The Phantom Menace by Terry Brooks is the novelization of the movie of the same name. Episode I is my favorite of the saga, and I really loved how this book brought even more scenes and dialogue into the story. I recommend that any Star Wars fan read the novelizations of the films as well.
my boyfriend is the biggest Star Wars nerd I know, so I have to keep my shit up.
It also gives us a lot more about the inner workings of the characters, to make us connect with them better.So let me first mention the things I thought this book improved on:- The Qui-Gon/Anakin relationship.
I was also pretty upset that Anakin didn't get an immediate reaction to his death, because I live for that kind of drama.- I think afterwards I understood the Qui-Gon/Obi-Wan relationship also a bit better.
You go, girl!Things that didn't work in the movie, so it's not the book's fault:- The Jedi Order being dicks and kind of not making sense.
There is a bit more foreshadowing and hints about Darth Sidious his plans in this book already, while I felt that is given less attention in the movies, we get a few chapters from his point of view and the trade federation so we see their side too.The author captured the essence of the story very well and made it all feel familiar and new at the same time.
The author managed to keep the story familiar and add some new aspects, if you want to experience the star wars stories again, but slightly different I would recommend you give the books a try.
It’s subtle (I know many will disagree with me on this), and has a far more nuanced approach to Star Wars than any of its predecessors had.That being said, the film doesn’t always show those nuances well- often leaving things better said, unsaid; hammering focus onto characters that should be better left in the background; and unnecessarily complicating some things in the canon that were later gently adjusted to fit more snugly into the larger mythos of the saga.The book doesn’t struggle with a lot of these issues.
This is an excellent novelization of a largely underrated movie and I believe any Star Wars fan will at least enjoy it a little bit (if not immensely like I did).
Tämä oli oikeastaan yllättävän hyvä.
Anakin on tässä miljoona kertaa kiinostavampi kuin samaisessa elokuvassa ja luokattoman näyttelijäsuorituksen ollessa poissa pidin tuosta 11 vuotiasta Anakinista.
Anakin on myös paljon enemmän esillä tässä kirjassa.
Itseasiassa Anakin on eniten esillä kirjan aikana ja koko kirja alkaa hänestä.
Qui-Gon Jinn oli myös tässä kirjassa paaaljon kiinostavampi kuin elokuvassa.
Itse tarina oli aika lailla sama kuin elokuvassa pieniä yksityiskohtia lukuun ottamatta.
Suurin plussa oli se, että kirjassa päästiin kunnolla hahmojen mieleen ja täten sain paljon uutta tietoa, mitä elokuvasta ei pystynyt edes saaman.
Oli myös kiva päästä lukemaan muutaman osa Darth Sidiouksen ja Darth Maulin silmistä.
And I know that I'm reviewing this book way too late, but I honestly don't care because a novelization of a saga as amazing as this one must have a review on my blog!
Haha!I'm pleasantly surprised by how much more substance Brooks' writing gave to the movie!
Granted, I knew what was gonna happen in the whole series, but I was really into the book series as well!
Haha!I just loved how much more personality and history Brooks' writing gave these timeless characters.
Also, it's always fun digging deeper into a movie!In the end, all I can say is...
So. I don't think the blame for the awfulness of this book rests at all on Mr. Brooks' shoulders.
The STORY, Characters, and everything else is just Terrible.
Reading the novelization, without the distraction of the special effects and flashy action sequences makes it that much clearer.
Too often, the answer to "why would this character do this?!" or "why did totally obvious solution x not occur to anyone?" is "because the story needed it to be stupid this way." It is so CONTRIVED, start to finish, that I have lost my ability to even.
But. Do I dare attempt to make it through the novelization of Episode II?
I read this on a whim (because I had heard that the novelizations of the Star Wars films were pretty good across the board), and I must say that I was shocked.
Terry Brooks manages to execute the material and elevate it far beyond the film it was based on.
Or, maybe it is st a case of something being better on paper than on celluloid.
Whatever the case, this was a strong sci-fi novel that is leaps bounds better than the movie.
It delivers an Episode 1 that is gripping, far more fleshed out, and masters the whole space adventure angle that was missing from the actual film.
