https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/247373.Dangerous
It was the darkest hour of the night.....She was going to pay a call to the man known as Fallen Angel...She had no other choice if she wanted to save her brother's neck...so she walks into his den and finds....LUCIFER!!!! Sorry, that's just his (the man called Fallen Angel's) black cat, Lucifer!! :PAnyway...coming back to the story....So, she walks into his den...his home and finds him....the man everyone called Fallen Angel....the last and only person who could help her...So, who is she???She
:PAnyway...coming back to the story....So, she walks into his den...his home and finds him....the man everyone called Fallen Angel....the last and only person who could help her...So, who is she???She is Prudence Merryweather.
And they seal it with a kiss....or rather he seals it with a kiss and she's left stunned....Walking into the devil's lair...sealing a bargain with him was all very well...for she needed to save her brother...but who will save her from him???[image error]Intrigued by her...attracted to her...Sebastian has decided to have bold little Prudence who is the only one who drives away the cold inside his chest....
Did you think you would need the pistol to protect yourself from me?”"Good heavens, no, my lord.” Prudence was genuinely shocked.
I read somewhere that Amanda Quick's historical romance novels follow an usual "formula": a somewhat tortured hero who needs to learn how to love and laugh + a quirky heroine who marches into his life bringing said love and laughter and never takes no for an answer.
Their quick banter had me laughing from the start, and it didn't take long for Sebastian to realize that he was never going to win an argument with Prue.
Perhaps, but it only made me love him more.Sebastian and Prue's relationship went kind of smoothly from the start and all the way through the end.
The only fault I had with the whole book was although the banter was enjoyable, when either Sebastian or Pru didn’t get their way (going along on cases or whatnot) they started to act like child who was deny a piece of candy which seem out of character as both were smart and clever and having to act like a kid because they didn’t get what they wanted made me roll my eyes.Overall: a fun read with a overlaying murder mystery and two great leads that will have you enjoying the book till the very end!
4.5 stars.It should be an easy 5 stars if I didn't want to smack the heroine for a few time.Her quick to defend whoever the target of the Hero's sharp tongue it's very annoying especially when its deserved.Anyway, this one has a good storyline, I wonder if Ms. Roberts got inspired from this book to write Brotherhood in Death, you know what I mean if you already read that book.Somehow while the disgusting crime are the same, because of the humor in it, this book feel much lighter than BiD and very enjoyable.
Sebastian and Prudence are a funny couple.
Prudence is an odd duck, quick to defend those important to her, and always fascinated by a mystery.While some of the dialogue was a little awkward and Prudence could be tiresome, it was still somehow, fun.
Sebastian and Prudence are a team from the beginning.
It was the team aspect that I loved best about this story.This was a fun story and a mystery that I didn't quite figure out until the end.
I just found Prudence's lectures annoying--she meant well, but she came across as a nag when she got on a roll.Overall, a nice comfort story with a couple that work as a team and a good murder mystery.
This gothic lite story starts with Miss Prudence Merryweather paying a visit to the Earl of Angelstone, Sebastian Fleetwood, at his home way past the hour of acceptability.
She has come because her absurdly protective brother is determined to avenge her honor which has been rocked by the fact that the Fallen Angel has been seen in her presence.
Sebastian looks at Prudence as if she's a very special gift and takes care of her with a gentleness that shocks him.
Amanda Quick has created a hard, aloof man in Sebastian Fleetwood and it is very endearing to see his cold spirit thaw around Prudence's natural cheerfulness.
During this phase, Amanda Quick had a distinct preference for eccentric heroines, often with spectacles paired with cold-on-the-surface heros, often earls who were by nature honorable men.
This book is the epitome of her style during this time: Prudence, the 25-year-old spinster who liked to investigate supernatural phenomena and Sebastian, the Earl of Angelstone who seemed cold but of course whose passion could be only ignited by said spinster and whose loneliness could only be chased away by the presence of said spinster.One great thing about Quick is her writing.
Things start getting meddled up when one of the haunted location ends up having some murder clues, and both of them decide to work together.
At the same time, Sebastian decides he wants Prudence as his bride, and manipulates his way into marriage.Now, the book started out great.
I love me a quirky and weird heroine, and a tortured hero.
The hero on the other hand was rather obstinate, and I commend him for putting up with the annoying heroine- especially when she kept meddling in the topic of his shitty aunt.Some past OM drama, a series of murders, a cat called Lucifer which our hero so often stroked and a couple of well written lovemaking scenes fill this book.Anyway, would have been a much higher rating if the heroine was strangled.
2.5 starsEh. Big disappointment.
I didn't get any sense of much love or affection between Prudence and Sebastian.
I know this book isn't supposed to be taken too seriously, but the crime committed against a young woman was really horrific and it seemed neither Prue, Sebastian nor the young woman's lover, were properly enraged.
They all should have demanded either lifetime imprisonment or death for the perpetrators, right off the bat.
Also, I didn't like how Prue kept demanding that Sebastian be civil or nice to his cousin and Aunt.
She really annoyed me in this.Overall, pretty big failure.
Para mí, Amanda Quick es la típica autora que tiene libros por todos lados, pero por alguna razón inexplicable nunca se cruzó uno de ellos en mi camino.
Y como no hacerlo con las conversaciones cargadas de astucia entre Doña Original y el Ángel Caído?La autora crea personajes totalmente verosímiles y actuales en sus actitudes y reacciones y los coloca en situaciones que te mantienen pegada al libro de principio a fin.
Y eso es quizás porque la autora se empeño en crear personajes principales no del todo perfectos como los que estamos acostumbrados a encontrarnos en una novela histórica.
Yes it is flawed but a delightful romp all the same.
The relationship between Pru and Sebastian was promising at the beginning but then it took a turn into an uninteresting one , I couldn't feel any tension or chemistry or anything hot for that matter , it was a little too cool for my taste.The murder mystery was very interesting but then the conclusion of it was too disturbing for my taste and the way Sebastian handled it right before the final confrontation was too distasteful for me , a monstrous crime like that deserves absolute punishment not a chance at escape and loss of wealth only as a punishment , I was pissed at that ..
Another favorite re-read, this one has Prudence and the Earl of Angelstone sharing investigative adventures as the Earl maneuvers Prudence toward marriage. One of the things I like best about Jayne Ann Krentz is her male characters, who generally know exactly what they want and how to get it without having a clue as to why they want it, which is so typically male. Her female characters, on the other hand, are often headstrong and independent but succumb to their emotions, which gives the male the upper hand every time. As usual, this book was fun!
It's getting to the point where I kind of feel like if you are okay with one Amanda Quick novel, you will probably be okay with the vast majority of them.
It's like she has, I dunno, twenty plot elements, and for any given novel she randomly draws fifteen of them.
It's probably a situation where as long as nothing too annoying happens, I'm willing to go along for the ride because there's enough entertainment value to keep me going.I was even cautiously optimistic that this one might not involve a final Everyone is in danger 20 pages from the end, plus bonus kidnapping/mortal peril!
While I don't think Dangerous is as good as Ravished, it's close.
I would love to talk about it, especially with those who also loved Ravished as a comparison, but feel many details at all would give some of the best parts away.
There are a few things that Quick does especially well: 1.
A woman who is from the country may not know the ways of town, men, or all social details, but that doesn't make her stupid.
With Prudence, our heroine, Quick walks the perfect line between the two.
Yes, Prudence is sometimes naive which causes issues, but she is never stupid.
The plotline it a typical Quick one - innocent heroine (probably virginal), dark mysterious possibly dangerous hero, various threats to the lady, ritual deflowering of the virgin in the library, hero to the rescue, happy ending.
Fine.But books should be somewhat believable in their own sphere I think.No woman in her right mind, then or now, would have put up with the verbal abuse the heroine received from her hero and continue to stare at him in wonder and inform him that it's all her fault and he is perfect and wonderful and kind beneath his rough exterior, so to speak.
And what man could tolerate the heroine's star struck innocence for long?
Lord Angelstone could probably qualify as such, with his penchant for mystery solving.
And to that end, his new wife Prudence would qualify as well.
For example, I'm not sure how Angelstone earned the moniker "the Demon Earl", nor did I feel any real mystery about him since he was so completely open with Prudence from the beginning.
Couple that with the weak mystery and conclusion that wrenches the tell-all from the villain right at the end, and I felt like this was a very mediocre read.I've read a couple of Amanda Quick's books now, I enjoyed Scandal, but felt like Ravished was as lack luster as this one.
3.5 stars This was a bit of a nostalgia re-read for me.
Spinsterish Prudence Merryweather calls on the Earl of Angelstone late at night to convince him not to duel with her brother.
Sebastian, the Earl, finds himself unexpectedly intrigued by the Original Miss Merryweather.
The two join forces as Sebastian inserts himself into Prudence's hobby of investigating spectral phenomena.
The repartee between these two is entertaining, if not the best Quick has ever written, and the story is mostly an enjoyable one.
In fact, this book would have landed closer to 4-star territory were it not for the somewhat weakly handled murder mystery running through the story.
A great Amanda Quick read and one of my favorite by her. Prudence is a strong, adventurous, and lovely heroine and it is an absolute joy to watch Sebastian, "The Fallen Angel," fall under her spell - completely unwillingly on his part and unknowingly on hers. Angelstone is great - the cold, austere, vengeful hero whom everyone is scared of ... except our heroine, of course, who intrigues and enchants him!
Love this story. It was the first Amanda Quick I ever read. There is an intelligent and "original" heroine with little family. A hero who has family issues and a mystery to solve. That is the formula for these books and it is one I love.Prudence begs Sebastian to call off the duel her brother started by apologizing to him. He agrees and through some mix-up they soon end up engaged. Pru sees only good things in Sebastian which brings out his better nature.
Our eccentric little ghost-busting heroine bespeaks the aide of Angelstone, aka The Fallen Angel, who dwells in the shadows with furry little Lucifer. Fun!
Loved it! But then again witch book from Amanda Qucik I didn't like.
DNF @ p. 203The heroine is so darn sweet and saintly, it's driving me insane.
They are great when I want an enjoyable, light read.Dangerous is a standard Regency Romance.
It begins with Prudence Merryweather making a risky visit to the notorious Sebastian, the Earl of Angelstone, in an attempt to save her brother from a duel.
Sebastian is intrigued by Prudence and quickly becomes protective of her as danger surrounds them.Although the plot is pretty generic, the story was highly entertaining.
Sebastian was witty and protective.
So even if the story wasn’t groundbreaking, I definitely had a fun time reading it.
(Sebastian) Angelstone and Prudence.
; )Angelstone notices Prudence the minute he sees her in a crowded ballroom.
Prudence is oblivious, which he finds humorous.
There's a murder to solve and there's a dash of paranormal (ghosts in this case).This is a safe read, no OWs and Angelstone is devoted to Prudence in his own enigmatic way.The reader, Ann Flosnik, has an older voice that you would think would be a turn off when applied to Prudence's already conservative style of speaking.
I think AF drags out some of her words in an overly dramatic/droll way, but over all I like her reading style.
Prudence is a girl who is unlike other girls, she is interested in paranormal stuffs, and Sebastian is a rake who is known as The Fallen Angel.
The thing he liked the most was that she complimented him every time, and that was good for his ego.Regency books are interesting because of their way of talk, of behavior, clothes, customs, etc.
When Sebastian is unlocking keys thru illegal ways, he says the same thing as when he is making love to Prudence.
Sebastian is the kind of name that works for hot, amazing heroes.
She calls herself "an investigator of spectral phenomena." She and her brother have been brought to London by Lady Hester for whom she performed an investigation and found that lady's missing jewels.The book opens with Prudence visiting Sebastian Fleetwood, the Earl of Angelstone, to convince him to call off a duel with her brother, Trevor.
Earlier in the evening, Sebastian, who has a dangerous reputation, had danced with Prudence and Trevor called him out.
Their respective interests form a bond between Sebastian and Prudence and, coupled with their physical attraction to each other, assures they will have a HEA.The romance is woven around their investigation of a series of murders that seems to involve a ghost.
Dangerous4 StarsYes, Amanda Quick's heroes and heroines are much of a muchness and her plots are rather formulaic.
That said, she is, nonetheless, a wonderful storyteller.
The mysteries are suspenseful and the romances are entertaining and satisfying.
Dangerous is no exception with the heroine, Prudence Merryweather, engaging in paranormal investigations, and the hero, Sebastian, Earl of Angelstone, investigating crimes for the Bow Street Runners.
As with most of Quick's books, Dangerous is a fast-paced read with engaging characters and a well-written sex scenes.
All in all, this is a classic Quick and is highly recommended for both fans and newbies.
I downloaded a couple digital library Amanda Quick books after she was recommended to me. I've quickly discovered that every book is the same! I do like the female characters but every plot device occurs the same way in each book. It got so tiresome I stopped reading. I felt like I was reading the same book over and over again but with different characters. Even the villians were similar. How disappointing. I was looking for historical fiction along the lines of Julia Quinn or Lisa Kleypas with funny, strong female characters and interesting and humorous plotlines. Oh well.
رواية هي مزيج ما بين الرومانسية والأكشن وخيال ما وراء الطبيعة، تفاجأت خلالها بالقاء المؤلفة الضوء على ما يجيش به عقل وصدر الرجل في علاقته بالمرأة؛ فمن المعتاد في مثل هكذا روايات تكون مترجمة إلى العربية أن يتم التركيز على ما تشعر به وتفكر فيه المرأة وحدها من: إعجاب/ خوف/ إطمئنان/ تردد/ رغبة/ رفض/ غضب/ كره/ حب ... إلخ، يبدو أنهم حين يترجمون إلى العربية يختصرون الكثير والكثير على حساب ما قد يشعر به الرجل توفيرا لنفقات الترجمة أو الطباعة :Dالرواية تساعد في تحسين إنجليزية المستوى المتوسط
