https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140848.Maigret_at_the_Coroner_s

Maigret, “shelved” by his FBI guide, Harry Cole, at a coroner’s hearing, gets mesmerized by this exercise in American justice.
Maigret’s appalled at the American coroner’s hearing, overseen by an amateurish sheriff who Maigret views with utter contempt.
However, the culture clash between European and American values, mores, and mien proves the most interesting part of Maigret at the Coroner’s.
I’ve read that Simenon became quite fluent in English; however, that’s different than feeling — as Maigret does in this novel — that one is an outsider, a European faced with gratingly informal, underdressed, glad-handing, puritanical Americans.
Out of respect for the US, I guess, the fuse is lit but the firecracker never goes off.
As good as ever.An unusual entry in the series, as Maigret is in rural USA as part of a study visit, and he cannot avoid getting involved in a coroner's investigation.
No one expects anything of him except to drink a great deal and be sociable.
FBI officer Cole is his guide in Arizona.
But after a bit, Cole needs to attend to his own affairs, so he parks Maigret at a coroner's inquest for a few hours.
A young woman who spent the night drinking with five Air Force men was found on the railroad tracks torn to shreds by a train.
Maigret is spending some time in America. While he is in the far-west he watches the judgment of a possible crime or accident. During that investigation he learns about the americans' way of living and reality, concluding that even when everything is alright, there is always something missing. It's a reflection about the nostalgia towards the daily life.
Molto godibile, non tanto per la trama "gialla" in sè (addirittura neppure veniamo a sapere quale sarà il verdetto della giuria), quanto per le osservazioni di Maigret sulla società americana. Ovviamente sono un po' "datate", ma comunque interessanti.
While living in Arizona, USA Georges Simenon moved to Tucson to be closer to full medical facilities as his 'secretary', Denyse Ouimet was pregnant.While there he witnessed a case that was the basis of this novel as his author's mind pondered what Maigret would think of the American legal system.Often heavily caught up in the court system in France this is an opportunity to see his detective observing over a few days a case in front of the coroner.The story turns around five service men and a young woman who drive off into the desert heading for the party town of Nogalès on the US / Mexican border.
But what I miss is Maigret's customary ongoing mulling of the psychological details of the crime (a woman has apparently been murdered by one of five American airmen drunk and out on the town), and the transcript obstacle prevents the reader from seeing his intuitive process at work.
Somewhat oddly, but not entirely unusual in Simenon's work, Maigret is called away to Los Angeles just as the jury is deliberating whether the woman was actually killed and, if so, which one of the five young men was guilty of the crime.
The book has Margaret is traveling through the United States on his way to California when he stops to visit a coroner's inquest in Arizona.
But what struck me about the book was that Maigret doesn't actually do any investigating.
He had very little purpose except to highlight the differences between French and American policing methods.The fish out of water elements, including Maigret's interactions with his American colleagues, were the best parts of the book.
I enjoyed the contrasts Simenon draws throughout the book between social mores in France vs the United States, and I understand the statements he was trying to make here.
This time Maigret is on a "study tour", dropped into the Arizona desert near Tucson.
Plainly for want of anything to do he decides to sit in on a coroners court that is trying to decide if a local "good time girl" was unlawfully killed or not.
Maigret does little throughout the book other than to watch, think, and try and make sense of what is going on.
Much drinking (even Maigret is appalled by how much the Airmen drink!), much philosophy on how everyone in America is polite all the time, and much irritation as the Americans insist on calling him "Julius"!
While not one of Simenon's better Maigret's, this book is fascinating because of Simenon's vision of America.
Obviously, the country has changed since this book was written, because Simenon still presents an optimistic and admiring look at America, with a few troubling aspects.
But the America he presents is almost as foreign to us now as it was to Maigret back then.
I did like that while Maigret sits back and figures out the case from just watching the inquest, Simenon does not present the American law enforcers as stupid or ignorant.
They also have figured out the killer.
I see that many readers of the Maigret series rate this one rather low. It seems that many are annoyed the the famous inspector is simply a spectator, observing a coroner's inquest, and plays no role in the solving of the crime other than figuring it out as a reader of a murder mystery might. To me, this twist made it all the more interesting. The Maigret books are as much about social commentary as they about crime, and having this one set in Arizona allows Simenon to make some rather insightful statements about America. I thought it was great.
Disappointing. Maigret sits and watches. And so do we.Might be an interesting commentary about the USA, as it was in 1949. But not really.
Fun to get Maigret's take on America.
Maigret in an entirely alien environment arriving at the truth, as ever, by absorbing the underlying subtleties of the case. Neatly observed and written with a deceptive pace.
This is the first time I have read a Maigret story and been disappointed.
One of the most droll Maigret novels I've read. I love all of Maigret's observations on Americans.
Questo era l'unico volume che avevo già casa e visto che avevo già letto i libri della Christie in ordine sparso ho pensato che potevo tranquillamente fare lo stesso con Simenon.Il questo libro troviamo Maigret nel bel mezzo di un viaggio formativo per aggiornarsi sulla giustizia Americana e si ritrova ad assistere al processo per una morte misteriosa.
Io non so davvero cosa pensarne, mi sono sembrate un pò ridicole, ma questa è un opinione puramente soggettiva fatta da qualcuno che in America non c'è mai stata e tutto quello che conosce della società americana l'ha appreso tramite altri libri, film e serie tv.Naturalmente non ho intenzione di giudicare Simenon solo da questo volume.
Maigret se retournait, comme à l'école, pour voir à qui l'on s'adressait.
La veille, Bessy est sortie avec cinq jeunes gens de la base militaire de Davis-Mountain, près de Tucson : Ward, O'Neil, Van Fleet, Mullins et Wo Lee. Maigret assiste aux séances publiques de l'enquête menée par un juge (le coroner) assisté d'un jury qui doit déterminer, préalablement à toute mise en accusation, s'il s'agit d'un suicide, d'un accident ou d'un acte criminel.A TV series Maigret en Arizona (1981) was made based on this book, with William Lang, Jess Hahn, Jean Richard and François Cadet.
In Tucson, he sits in or a coroner’s inquest.
A young woman has been found dead on the railroad tracks between Tucson and Nogales.
As Maigret sits through the questioning, he sees that the five airmen are reciting a skillfully memorized story, but as the questioning continues, differences in their testimony appear.
As usual, Maigret is able to come up with the real culprit before the inquest is over, but he hates sitting on his hands during the questioning.
The real theme is the difference between an American inquest and a French one.
This is an odd Maigret as the Inspector remains passive throughout.
Sociologically, it’s very interesting as what Simenon appears to be doing is scrutinising the ‘American Dream’.
He concludes that like all humanity there is a void at the heart of the American middle class.
Though they may appear to have it all, they too crave for something more.
He is more concerned with simply exploring the psychology at the heart of the individuals involved.
He is particularly interested in the sexual psychology that motivates men and women to act irrationally and selfishly.
An odd Maigret but one I thoroughly enjoyed.
It still contains some of Simenon's trademark psychological panache, but is structurally problematic.
Here, Maigret is essentially a passive character, observing a coroner's inquest in Arizona.
The details are really not important, and rarely are in a Maigret book.
It is the psychological mystery that always makes Simenon interesting.
But in this case, you have mostly details, and psychology unfolds only at the very end.
It gives Simenon a chance to comment and contrast the working methods of France and the US, but even these observations do not come across as profound or particularly accurate.
I libri di Maigret non sono solo gialli.
Non si legge Maigret per scoprire l'assassino, quella è una piacevolissima aggiunta al valore del romanzo, principalmente si legge Maigret per scoprire il suo punto di vista su una determinata realtà.
Qui Maigret vola negli Stati Uniti per lavoro, e in Arizona si ritrova a seguire, più per curiosità che per altro, un caso di omicidio.
La visione che dà della società americana è assolutamente realistica (anche se probabilmente datata), almeno per chi, come me, non ha mai toccato con mano la realtà americana.
Yes, Maigret in America.
Simenon poked fun at Europe with this comparison:These people had a look of general good health and cleanliness that is rarely seen in an equivalent European crowd.
(pg 23)And deeply questioned America with this:What was it that did not function properly in this country where they have everything?
This has been the most "uneven" Maigret novel I have read.
But, hey, I've never published a novel.....Read it just to read Simenon, so you'll really appreciate the others in this series.
To be totally honest here - when I pick up a Maigret novel, I don't expect a page-turning thriller full of life-threatening dangers and crazy twists.
I expect a solid, comfortable mystery about ordinary people in more or less ordinary situations and Maigret's uncanny sense of picking up the truth.
Here, however, we get the bare bones, or even less, since Maigret is reduced to a position of a spectator and consequentially, the readers is forced to slug through page after page of courthouse hearings.
Nonetheless, Maigret manages to get his point across, but that didn't help the book at all.
Come sempre un bel libro di Simenon ambientato negli USA con il commissario Maigret spettatore di un processo in una cittadina americana. Assai diversa l'ambientazione (certo , l'atmosfera di Parigi è un'altra cosa) ma Maigret è ancora una volta appassionante ed il giallo leggibilissimo. Certo che il successo di Maigret ambientato in Arizona non sarebbe stato eguale a quello ottenuto con il commissario al Quai des Orvevres
An unusual 'Maigret' novel as it is set in the USA instead of France and Maigret himself does very little work. He is mainly a public spectator at an inquest that involves the death of a young woman. Full marks must be given to Simenon for attempting something different, but for me this is a less satisfying 'Maigret' novel than most of the others. It was interesting, certainly, but lacked something, atmosphere perhaps. Having said that, Simenon is always good, so I don't regret reading it.
La historia no es interesante, pone en ridículo a la investigación criminal en USA. Hace una crítica a la manera de vivir de la sociedad estadounidense fuera de lugar, como si la francesa o europea en general fuera el modelo a seguir.La edición deja que desear. La traducción es pésima, deja de traducir los cargos policiales y judiciales, usa modismos fuera de lugar para la época en que transcurre el relato. Habrán pagado por esta traducción?
Novela fallida de Maigret. Especie de remedo de caso de Perry Mason, sin ningún interés, además, en el que el bueno del inspector no encaja en absoluto y que sirve a Simenon para hacer una especie de análisis sociológico tan superficial como tópico de la sociedad estadounidense. Lamentable traducción. Se me ha hecho pesadísimo leer este libro, cosa que nunca me había pasado con Maigret. Un chasco.
Maigret is in Tuscon, AZ and his FBI contact, Harry Cole, takes him to a Coroner's Inquest. A young girl has been killed by a train on a railroad track, and five airforce men who took her from Tuscon towards Nogales are being questioned. They were all very drunk after after being at a bar and a party. Also questioned are various police and train officials.
