https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18892.The_Forest_House
She is wise.I didn't love The Mists of Avalon upon rereading it now, but I did appreciate it more, I think, than I had over twenty years ago when I read it originally.
Basically you have a Druidic priestess, Eilan, who falls in love with a Roman office, Gaius, and the entire story is pretty much about that.
I don't know how much of this book was written by Bradley or by Paxson, but anytime another writer gets involved, the story is rarely ever good.
That's strange to say, again, considering I don't think Bradley was that great a writer either.I strongly suggest if you loved Mists of Avalon just stopping there.
We learn of insights into faith, including the Christian concept of the female side of G-D known as the Sophia, which might have had its roots in the Jewish concept of the female incantation of the holy spirit known as the Schechina.An absorbing and at times heartbreaking tale, which makes the experience of reading the Mists of Avalon richer reading of the ancestors of the protagonists in that feminist retelling of Arthurian legend.
This was a book that lost much of its magic on a re-read.The writing style felt a bit odd, with some words thrown in that did not fit the rest of the wording.
It also made the book drag a bit, even though it felt hurried (I mean, it does span the lifetime of Eilan and Gaius, but the time jumps could have been smoother).In terms of plot, it was a bit hard to keep track of who wanted what and why.
As for the main characters, they all felt flat, their motives not clear enough.
These individuals move on to Vernemeton and rebuild the hertiage of the Priestess and Druids with the consent of the Roman EmperorThe story wraps around Eilan (the Arch-Druid Ardanos granddaughter) a Roman officer "Gaius" who is half Roman and half Britian and is also the son of Martius Julius Licinius (Procurator - financial officer of Britannia).Eilan and Gaius story becomes complicated because of Gaius status of being a Roman but the love they have for each other is held in secret.

3.5 starsMost of the book was agonizingly slow. Each time the main characters met was a chance meeting at a festival. When a festival was coming up, I braced myself for them to meet. I am hoping that this was a set up for the next book, and that The Lady of Avalon will be better.
I expected to like this book better than I did since I loved Mists of Avalon.
I realize it was a tragic time so perhaps there is a great deal of realism in the story, but it was not a fun read.
I might have given it 2 1/2 if I could.ADDITION: Now reading the third book, Lady of Avalon.
I see now why I needed to read this one even though I did not like it as well as the one I am 2/3 of the way through now nor as well as Mists of Avalon which is a real favorite.
I liked it, but had a harder time getting into it than I expected, given how much I remember loving The Mists of Avalon.
However, my most recent re-read was probably 20 years ago, so maybe my tastes have changed a bit since then.
Or maybe this one just wasn't quite as good.
Or maybe I'm just pickier now.
:)I had mixed feelings about the characters in this one; they didn't all seem consistent throughout the book.
He seemed totally unlike who he was at the beginning of the book and the book didn't follow his character enough to see the change happening.
from the viewpoint of people at that time.
Meine Mum hatte das Buch vor x Jahren via Bertelsmann Club bekommen.Das Cover gefiel mir unglaublich gut und auch die Story sprach mich richtig an.
I'm sold, baby!Ich habe, wenn ich mich recht erinnere, das Buch innerhalb weniger Tage durch gehabt - jaja, die Freuden der Jugend, wenn man sich um nichts anderes kümmern braucht...
Die Story war toll, hat mich von Anfang an gefesselt und auch Jahre später muss ich immer noch daran denken.Ich hab Gaius geliebt, ich hab Eilan geliebt.
Zu schade, dass ich das Buch nicht mehr habe.
irgendwann kauf ich's mir noch einmal.
I read these backwards. Read this one before the Lady of Avalon, and then read The Mists of Avalon. That way you have them in order. This book was a bit harder read than the other two, but quite good. My bias may have been a result of reading them out of order.
Mainly to make sure nothing was said that would threaten Roman power or anything that was not what the Druids wanted to hear as they were playing games as well.
And when the Druids had been distracted and the Goddesses voice had come through, he ran up to her crying and whining about how the Romans had taken their lands, women and so on.
In another part of the book, she mentions that it was ok to mix blood, because it strengthened the race so long as the old ways did not die.
This book also gave some insight into the Roman psychology as well.
Although they can never truly be together, in their own ways they both work to try to keep the peace between their two peoples as certain British factions vie for revenge against the Romans for the atrocities they committed years before.This book takes place after Ravens of Avalon and I would strongly suggest reading that book before reading The Forest House.
I wouldn't say that The Forest House is my favorite book in the series, but I did enjoy it and would recommend it to other fans of the series and to people who enjoy British history.
I really struggled with this book.
It felt like I was reading three chapters of "The Mists of Avalon" but spread into a whole novel: with more added having-of-plot-redundant-babies.
I think part of the problem was that I only liked one character and she appears quite irregularly.
And there are so few meaningful conversations!
The main protagonists were a bit meh.
If more of the novel had been set really digging into the politics rather than just touching on them, and shill-shallying about with descriptions of the lives of the maidens I would have loved it.
Eilan is a Druidic warleader's daughter destined to be High Priestess of the Forest House.
Gaius is a Roman-British soldier among the Roman legions.
Eilan and Gaius fall in love.
It is a forbidden path they travel for the High Priestess must be a virgin like the Roman Vestals.
Eilan carries secrets into her priestesshood.
Secrets that could destroy lives if revealed.
Will Eilan and Gaius's love stand the test of time, or will secrets and war tear them apart?The Forest House is a novel of strong characters.
The kind of characters the reader still thinks about when the story ends.
I highly recommend this novel.
„Мъглите на Авалон” на Марион Зимър Брадли е книга, която трудно може да се опише, а още по-малко пък с една дума. Но ако трябва да опитам, то коя ли би била думата? Красива? Епична? Всепоглъщаща? Не, не мога да избера. Е, поне опитах. В крайна сметка, май ще трябва да бъда по-многословна! Заповядайте моето ревю на фентъзи явлението „Мъглите на Авалон” (изд. „Еднорог”)! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
good, but too sad/fatalistic/heart wrenching, like "mists"... at least it didn't torture me for as long, since it wasn't as long. liked learning about the druids and romans before the "mists" story, though. and i'm going to read the middle book too, but i don't expect to enjoy it (no matter if it's well-written and gripping, like the others... now that ken follett has shown me the pleasures of good historical fiction with a positive view of history... why keep torturing myself? i don't know... gotta finish that trilogy! i won't be reading the related diana paxson ones, though)
This book was the weakest of all of Bradley's books I read. She imagines King Arthur as descended from a Celtic Priestess and a Roman soldier. I was not drawn to either of the main characters and, for a book ostensibly about the Druids there was very little detail about them. She breifly mentions the founding of Avalon, but the one detail that stands out is that the head Priestess put the least intelligent woman in charge of the kitchen. Awful! Details of Roman life were interesting but, overall, the book did not come together for me.
Pleasantly surprising. Pre-dates "Mists" and King Arthur. All about the war between Romans and Druids - made me want to read the "real" history of this time period! Eilan, grand-daughter of Arch Druid, falls in love with Gauis, son of bigwig Roman.
i guess because i loved 'mists' so much i expected more from 'forest house' and 'lady of avalon' and i was alittle disappointed. but the books were good, just not great.
I really love these books.
I feel a little guilty saying that because these books are about emotion - they're not really an art form - but MZB was really good at what she did, and you can really envision the world and you care about the characters.
There's still the standard tropes - young lovers who never are able to sort things out thanks to society, women are good at religion and men are bad, and the patriarchy sucks.
Also, never ever ever let Christians into your country (Which, as a Jew and a historian, I can verify) unless you want things to get totally terrible for everyone.
Une lecture très sympa qui m'a ramené dans les mystères des brumes d'Avalon que j'avais adoré.Dans ce bouquin vous trouverez:- du girl power en veux tu en voilà avec des prêtresses qui s'en laissent pas compter!- De la jalousie qui rend moche mais le karma s'en charge- Un guest de Merlin que j'aurais aimé être plus développé - Une confirmation que Men Are Trash et ne peuvent pas supporter que les femmes aient du pouvoir...
I started this book because I was going to see Bellini's Norma in Venice and thought this would be good preparation. I loved the opera but after a quarter of the book didn't feel motivated to finish it.
Decisamente ho preferito le nebbie di Avalon della stessa autrice. Scritto benissimo comunque e mi è piaciuto davvero molto.
I love anything Arthurian but when it involves strong females - YEEESSSSS!
A autora vai construindo a mitologia de Avalon através de Eilan, a sacerdotisa e começando a preparar a chegada de Merlin e do Rei Arthur através dos personagens da história atual.Esse é comecinho da saga das Brumas de Avalon, e para mim, que sou apaixonada nesses livros desde os 13 anos, foi maravilhoso me reencontrar com a série.
Often I felt it was useless and not pertinent to the story, but mostly I felt like the characters were taking away something completely different than what I gathered from a convoluted dialogue.
The Romans were constantly worried about "what the British would do" is such-and-such scenario and vice versa, but we never saw an example of it.
The whole story was pretty much about the two sides constantly worried about what the other would do.
Thirdly, I felt like there wasn't really a solid story.
To me it felt like an underdeveloped backstory to Avalon, and that's it.
All in all, it is a good book...
The Forest House by Marion Zimmer Bradley is the prequel to The Mists of Avalon.
The native people were Pagans - the holy people were Priestesses and Druids.
A love affair between Eilan, a woman who was to become the High Priestess, and Gaius, a Roman soldier of mixed Roman and British heritage sets a series of events in motion that eventually causes Paganism to dissolve or at least lose most of its strength in their region of the isles.
A handful of Druids and Priestesses travel away from this region and establish a holy place in the Summer Country, which eventually becomes Avalon.
Most people don't like Zimmer's books as much as they do Mists of Avalon but after reading the Forest House I realized that all the other books enrich the entire backdrop that is Avalon.
You appreciate Mists more because of the others who've played a part in Avalon's story.
I liked Eilan and the role she played though it seemed very much slanted that she had very little chance for happiness.
I found myself disliking the priests entirely and felt that Lhiannon allowing them so much power was totally against her role as High Priestess.
This book is a prequel to the Mists of Avalon which I haven't read yet and judging by the rest of the reviews, it's probably just as well.
The historical content was what interested me most.
Originally, I liked the characters of Eilan and Gaius but as the book progressed, their actions continuously annoyed me and I wanted to smack their heads together.
It all seemed pointless at some stages and the book was very slowly paced.
It hasn't put me off reading the other books in the series but I doubt I will ever read this again.
The forest house is a good book and the characters are very realistic.
I realized something though while readiing this book after reading lady of avalon.
The first story in lady of avalon is a continuation of the story in the forest house.
I suggest that anyone who is thinking of reading lady of avalon should read the forest house first.
The story has a little bit of everything in it, life and death, suspense, romance and of course some religion ie; Celtic religion, mithraism and some mention of Christianity.
This book takes place during the first Century in Celtic Britain shortly after the Roman occupation.
I reccomend this book to read.
