https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60511.The_Absorbent_Mind
أعظم شيء لمسته بالكتاب هو تواضع ماريا وقربها للقارئ، وصلتني الأفكار بعفوية ورقي أكثر من باقي المصادر التي تعلمت منها عن مونتيسوري (مع العلم أن المصادر كانت رائعة أشخاصاً ومقالات لكن دائماً صاحب العلم الحقيقي هو الأكثر تواضعاً وقرباً للمثالية الواقعية لا المثالية النظرية..) ..
الكتاب يعطي نظرة عامة عن فكر مونتيسوري تجاه الطفل بشكل عام وتجاه تكون شخصيته ونموه بشكل أكثر خصوصية..
We are quite warm enough.’ It is plain that [such teachers:] tend to lower the children’s level, instead of bringing them nearer to the center of perfection [referring to a previously made analogy:]...
224) ****This is at the heart and center of Montessori education!*****“A mother of six finds them easy to manage.
The mother with six children of different ages is far better off than the mother with one.
Borrowing heavily from Rousseau, Heinrich Pestalozzi and his student Friedrich Froebel, as well as Freud and other scientists of her age, Montessori sets out a method of education that recognizes the natural "inner guide" of the child as one that yearns for knowledge and perfection and compels the "normalized" child to practice activities incessantly, until mastery occurs.
Though she makes mostly logical conclusions based upon her observations and those of her teachers, her ideas are clearly those of her own time.
For its time it provided and even to this day contributes a valuable insight into the psychology of the child and instruction for how to help rather than hinder child development.
اخيرا انهيت كتاب العقل المستوعب..كنت متشوقة جدا لقراءة الكتاب لاعرف العلم من صاحبه الاصلي و فعلا وجد
not only a child book.. but will also make ypu question humanity, evolution and yourself!
Written from India after the Second World War there is a change in Dr Montessori's view of human nature. She is less optimistic of the goodness of man and works instead for a peaceful education. She believed, and was likely correct, that if we are to end man's destruction of man, then we need an educational philosophy based on cooperation rather than competition.
I like the premise behind the book but it was hard for me to read - like pulling myself through mud. Great philosophy, brilliant woman, but not pleasure reading . . . don't attempt to read if you're tired!
A fascinating window into the minds of children. Montessori was a genius. I cant help but think our schools would be in a lot better shape if we would've gotten on board with her 100 years ago!
Odlična knjiga za svakog kome dete ima godinu dana. Ako vam je dete starije, a imate prevelike izazove sa vaspitanjem, samo ćete se ubedačiti što ranije niste za nju čuli. Svejedno, i tada je vredo pročitati je!
Cartea e despre abilitatea copilului de a absorbi informațiile din mediu, capacitatea inconștientă de a le învață și asta fără intervenția nocivă sau neinformată a părintelui.
De multe ori părinții domină și reprimă ceea ce au copiii lor mai scump: calități, abilități, inducându-le, chiar, de multe ori complexe de inferioritate.
O poate citi oricine, aflam multe lucruri utile chiar dacă nu avea să am copil.Conform Mariei Montessori, educația unui copil trebuie să înceapă încă de la naștere.
O carte pe care o voi reciti neapărat pentru a-i înțelege și mai bine esența, ideile și modul de educație Montessori.
Uf! Konečně hotovo. Pár podnětných myšlenek v tuně vaty. Neuvěřitelně rozvláčný styl Marie Montessori mi teda dal hodně zabrat, ale nelituju. Knížka pochopitelně objasňuje základní principy montessori pedagogiky, do praxe si je člověk ale musí umět převést sám. Kontext hodně poplatný době, na druhou stranu dává více vyniknout tomu, jak moc pokrokové myšlenky na tu dobu Montessori prosazovala.
A friend from North Carolina just returned the book: Teaching Montessori in the Home by Hainstock; a good book; but I like the feel of reading Maria Montessori.
Quoting from The Absorbent Mind:" ...Instead, the child undergoes a transformation.
We have named this type of mentality, The Absorbent Mind.
..." This is Montessori's last book, a discussion of decades of observation of children.
Not a quick read; but like getting to know someone who truely loves God's children.
Ann easier read that is presently in my book shelf is the Discovery of the Child by Maria Montessori.
We forget that imagination is a force for the discovery if truth. 177 . . . There is one thing the teacher must never do and that is, to interfere by praising a child's work, or punishing him if it is wrong, or even by correcting his mistakes . . . If a child has to be rewarded or punished, it means he lacks the capacity to guide himself. 245
The book that started the Montessori movement. Brilliant idea and philosophy but challenging to process. The style of writing is full of optimism and metaphors that make it deep nonfiction reading, but essential if you want to understand the Montessori approach to education.
ان سحر الحياة الاجتماعية يكمن في عدد الانماط الكثيرة التى يقابلها المرء وليس هناك بلادة وكابة اكثر من بيت المسنين "" الجملة دي تختصر جزء كبيير جداُ من مشاكل الاطفال فى مراحل النمو الاجتماعي مع الطفل الكتاب حلو ويستحق القرايه وبسيط
Questo non è un libro per maestre. Questo libro è per chiunque abbia a che fare con dei bambini. Anche tu mio caro genitore!
Maria makes me question and rethink how I parent my own child and teach my students. A heavy textbook read but kept my interest. Here's to the beginning of pursuing the Montessori way :)
Wonderful book, a must for every new parent!
Con essa, anche l'uomo potrà tenere unito tutto quanto egli crea con le sue mani e con la sua intelligenza: senza di essa tutto ciò che crea sarà rivolto (come quasi sempre lo è) a portare disordine e distruzione: senza di essa, con l'aumentare della propria potenza, nulla di suo potrà sussistere, tutto crollerà.
Questa energia dell'amore, invece, ci è data perché ognuno di noi l'abbia in sé.
Lo studio dell'amore e la sua utilizzazione ci porteranno alla sorgente dalla quale esso zampilla: il Bambino.
Written during Dr. Montessori's time in India after WWII, this book gives a wonderful insight into how the mind of a child absorbs their surroundings.
The book explains Montessori's child developmental theory, especially from ages of 3-6 and gives techniques to nurture and understand a child's mind .Parts of the book must admit had to struggle to get through.
Sometimes Dr. Montessori book reads more as a study research text book than leisurely reading book.
Dr. Maria Montessori's book gives many fascinating insights into early child psychology, which found to be very enlightening and immensely helpful!
Questo saggio, pubblicato in India nel 1949, è l'insieme di una serie di conferenze che Montessori tenne in occasione del corso di preparazione che svolse ad Ahmedabab. E' un documento prezioso e quanto mai attuale in cui sono riassunti, in maniera discorsiva, i pilastri del suo metodo: secondo me è una buona lettura per avvicinarsi a questa grande scienziata. <>
This book, compared to some of Montessori's others, is a relatively dense read. Once I really got into it, though, it was very interesting. There were a lot of great ideas raised, and she outlines the Montessori pedagogy and philosophy more clearly, especially for the ages between 0 and 6. The chapter in which I put the most bookmarks (most of my bookmarks, actually) is Chapter 22, on Social Development.
„Mintea Absorbantă primeşte orice, îşi pune speranţe în orice, acceptă în mod egal sărăcia şi bogăţia, adoptă orice religie, prejudecăţile şi obiceiurile compatrioţilor săi, încarnându-le pe toate în sine.”
I read this before my son started in Montessori School and found it very helpful in understanding the philosophy behind the practices of the school. Very progressive ideas, especially considering the time period she was writing in.
Great info =] I struggled, though, it's not at all engaging.
A lot of very interesting information on the development of a child's mind is in this book, as well as a lot of approaches to teaching. A great read for anyone interested in education!
Highly recommend this book if you have any contact with children. Have read more than once.
awesome book
great ideas, but overly wordy
#-#-#-#-#-#-#-#-#-##-#-# TO READ #-#-##-#-#-#-#-#-#-#-#-#
