https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19063.The_Book_Thief
*Annoyed reader keeps on reading*Liesel: Papa, can you play the accordion?
Sigh.*Goes back to reading.*Rudy: Saukerl, wanna play football?Liesel: Okay.*They play football and everyone else is bored.*Death: HERE IS ...Reader: Oh, man, not you again!Death: I AM THE NARRATOR OF THE STORY AND THEREFORE I SHOULD BE TALKING AT ALL TIMES EVEN THOUGH I AM ACTUALLY INTERRUPTING THE NATURAL FLOW OF THE STORY.Reader: Stop yelling at me.
*They read and everyone else is bored.* Mama: Hey, you fucking punk ass motherfucking slut, dinner's ready!Liesel: Coming, Mommy.Reader: THE FUCK?Death: Here are two informations that you should know.
Death first encounters nine-year-old Liesel when her brother dies, and hangs around long enough to watch her steal her first book, The Gravedigger's Handbook, left lying in the snow by her brother's grave.Her foster parents, Hans and Rosa Herbermann, are poor Germans given a small allowance to take her in.
It's the story of Max, growing up and coming to Liesel's home, and it's painted over white-painted pages of Mein Kampf, which you can see through the paint.Whenever I read a book, I cannot help but read it in two ways: the story itself, and how it's written.
Just as with The Kite Runner, I'm (somewhat) shocked that this book is a bestseller and has been given awards, chewed up and swallowed by the literary masses and regarded as greatness.
Throw in the snarky narration by Death (nifty trick except that it doesn't work), a few half-assed drawings of birdies and swastikas, senseless and often laughable prose that sounds like it was pulled from the "poetry" journal of a self-important 15 year-old, and a cast of characters that throughout are like watching cardboard cutouts walking around VERY SLOWLY, and that's the novel.
The author will probably even focus on colors among the grays, as in "Schindler's List."3) I have WAY too many other books to read.After avoiding the book for as long as possible, I sat down, hoping to enjoy it enough to gain some clever comments for the book group.Turns out, most of my concerns were right.
Death foreshadows constantly, so we know a bit about which of the characters will die.
Rosa's changes prove one of the greatest reasons to read good literature-- to get insight into the type of people we don't usually give a second chance.
If you love to read and if you love to care about the characters you read about and if you love to eat words like they're ice cream and if you love to have your heart broken and mended on the same page, this book is for you.
This story is narrated by Death during World War II, and it is the story of a young German girl who comes of age during one of the most horrific times in recent history.
The descriptions of the sky are like nothing I've ever read.
2. He would make himself a small, strange mustache.
Video review can be found here: https://youtu.be/rzEHcw769xgIt's going to take awhile for this book to fully sink in, but overall this was a masterpiece.
I feel like I was just given a history lesson but in the most emotionally damaging way possible.
Such stupid gallantry.Yes.I like that a lot.A few days ago, when I was starting The Book Thief, my mother stopped by and saw the book on my coffee table.
Having just read it herself (and knowing me better than anyone else in the world, I might add), she was determined to save me from myself.
Death does a great job of asking all these questions in a calm, unobtrusive way.I’m not pretentious enough to believe that my clumsy words can ever do this book justice.
Time will speak for it, as I’m pretty sure it will survive for decades and generations to come.
It makes me feel wrong inside when everyone else loves a book that I find to be underwhelming...
This is one of those incredibly slow, subtle books that are told in a series of anecdotes and are meant to cleverly build up a bigger picture...
but the stories just didn't interest me.I could imagine I was reading a collection of short stories (and not a full-length novel) about playground fights, developing friendships, WWI stories and death.
These stories are supposed to come together and form a novel that is all kinds of awesome, but it was so bland.
I'm giving this book 3 stars for the pretty words and the concept.
No. I didn’t want to cause problems and I didn’t want to make waves.The narrator of The Book Thief makes a claim that Hitler’s took over a country and started a war – not with guns or weapons but with words.
Her response was always the same: if you don’t fill a child’s head with all the right stuff, someone will come along and fill it with all the wrong stuff.
Pretty appalled, I imagine – and rightfully so.And now we come to the big reason why I think a lot of people didn’t like this book – the narrator.The Hunger Games did a similar thing to The Book Thief.
She’s written so well; it’s so easy to invest in her story and wish for her to have an ending she deserves.
But one can hope: one can hope that someone who has gone through so much will get a happy ending, though that’s not the point of this book.
The ending of this book is precisely what made it so powerful.
A fantastic story Liesel is an orphan, and when she was adopted I expected her to have an absolutely terrible time.
It takes a lot to write a book like this, and to end it like this.
The choice of narrator adds absolutely nothing to the story; it is only a distraction to the reader, and it also encouraged the author to add trite observations about Death's perspective (for example, he doesn't carry a scythe, but likes the human image) that add nothing to the story.
This is another ill-conceived and heavy-handed gimmick intended to correct for a poor narrative.I think it is telling that while this book gets listed as teen fiction, Zusak actually wrote it for adults.
But, like Liesel, words is all I have, so I will have to try.This is a lyrical, poignant, heartbreaking, soul-shattering story disjointedly told by a nearly-omniscient, fascinated by humans narrator - Death.
Because the world is baffling, because it is a cruel place, because often it tries to stomp out love and beauty."I guess humans like to watch a little destruction.
And I love them for that.This is a wonderful, lyrical, surreal, excellent book that broke my heart into tiny little pieces and yet gave me hope that even in the worst of times we can find beauty.
A lot of people really like the narrator, and I imagine if you did the book would be much more enjoyable to read.
For me to want to read Holocaust fiction, it had better be better than okay, or even good--ti had better be absolutely amazing for me to be willing to put myself through the emotional pain and struggles that are inherent with a holocaust book.
I needed it to be a book about people that really interested me, that I cared about, and instead I was bored with the characters and irritated at the narrator and the obvious manipulations of the author.
The Book Thief was published as Young Adult novel.
Nico Liersch as Rudy Steiner - from Imglist.comThe Book Thief is populated with a klatch of wonderful characters.
The spirited Liesel will win your heart, as will her friend Rudy, Hans and even Rosa.
Liesel steals her first book as a way of maintaining a connection with her dead brother.
Later, learning to read and continuing to steal books gives her a feeling of power.
For many German villagers in the late 30s and early 40s, the Third Reich was like a quiet glacier, slowly encroaching on their lives—it moved languidly enough that disaster seemed never truly imminent (there is always plenty of time to get out of the way), yet it had enough momentum to churn to pulp anything that was unfortunate enough to meet its frothing jaws.What annoyed me about this book, however, was its distracting style of storytelling.
Try to keep this in mind the next time your idiot friend says something like, “Dude, we should totally just bomb the fuck out of [insert Middle Eastern country here].”My cousin told me I had to review this book or she would sic the Andover Ladies of Literature on me and I do not wish to scuffle with those broads.
i have no words. never in my life have i sobbed so hard at a book. i had to put my knitting down, then i had to stop the audio book because i was crying too hard. this book is no joke. i was going to give it 4 stars because i thought it was a little too long-winded but truly it is a masterpiece and thank you thank you thank you to everyone that persuaded me to read it.
These early experiences furnished my life with both angst and vision: with angst to recognize the potential for evil within ever human being and with vision to see the possibility for courage and compassion, to pick up a piece of bread to feed a cipher.And that’s a big part of what The Book Thief does for me: it captures and again reminds me of these viabilities as they play out near Dachau in the heart of World War II’s Nazi Germany in the lives of Liesel and her contemporaries, alive and dead.
To remind us to stand up wherever tyranny and power put people down.Zusak took the time and effort to invest the narrative with near perfect words and wonderful sentences and great paragraphs and superb chapters.
It amazed me.Unfortunately, at the time I was really crappy at writing reviews, and all I wrote was like, "OMG THIS BOOK IS AMAZING AND EVERYONE SHOULD READ IT.
He's so wonderful and such a sweetheart and just … aggh.The friendship between Liesel and Max is so beautifully done, and something that's pretty atypical for a YA book (or for any book, I guess) … I mean, there's like a 10+ year age difference between them or something, and it could have come off as super creepy, but it isn't at all.
Words can't describe my love for that kid.(view spoiler)[His death at the end is pretty much the saddest thing in history.
The novel is narrated precisely from the point of view of the Death, which is having its job during World War II, forced into working extra hours by a conflict that causes victims relentlessly.In this book I see influences of Stephen King's "The Body" and "It", because of the way of Liesel and Rudy live their friendship.
Non credo di spoilerare nulla (lo si capisce fin dal prologo) se dico che il libro è narrato proprio dal punto di vista della Morte, che ha il suo bel daffare durante la seconda guerra mondiale, costretta agli straordinari da un conflitto che miete vittime senza sosta.In questo romanzo vedo influenze de "Il corpo" ("The Body") e di "It" di Stephen King, per come Liesel e Rudy vivono la loro amicizia.
We're allowed to like different books.My ListI think the thing I hated the most was the writing itself.
I hated that even though the sentences and chapters were short and choppy, the book was 550 pages long!
I hated that Zusak chose to put his cliched story about a girl who likes books against the backdrop of the Holocaust.
They were just a collection of anecdotes.I hated that the entire book felt like a pretentious writing exercise by some smarmy grad student.This is the second YA novel that I've hated this year, and I'm taking a break from the genre.
And upon reading it, it was aptly so.This book is a heartwarming tale of people in hardships, who find happiness in small little corners of life.
I asked my wife on a blind date and the first day all we talked about was how can I not have read the book?Yes, how could I have not?
The line was "This book stands a cornerstone in my life because you read it.
I'M SHATTERED. COME ON, JUST GO READ THIS BOOK, IT WILL STICK WITH YOU FOREVER!
Very good.Having Death as the narrator and having as a central protagonist a young girl in Nazi Germany make The Book Thief by Markus Zusak stand out from the crowd of books about Europe during World War II; this book is good not so much because of the story, but how the author tells it.
In the Book Thief, Zusak uses a rich, multi-layered blend of allegory, metaphor and symbolism to create amidst the dirt and depression of Germany during the late 30s and 40s a stark vision of historical and philosophical thoughtfulness.
{BR with Nicole}  “I wanted to tell the book thief many things, about beauty and brutality. But what could I tell her about those things that she didn't already know? I wanted to explain that I am constantly overestimating and underestimating the human race-that rarely do I ever simply estimate it. I wanted to ask her how the same thing could be so ugly and so glorious, and its words and stories so damning and brilliant.”    These pictures are self explanatory.There are no words good enough to d
{BR with Nicole}  “I wanted to tell the book thief many things, about beauty and brutality.
But what could I tell her about those things that she didn't already know?
I wanted to ask her how the same thing could be so ugly and so glorious, and its words and stories so damning and brilliant.”  
These pictures are self explanatory.There are no words good enough to describe the beauty of this book.
And in one of those rare instances, the book more than lived up to the hype.
But most of all I wept because of the undeniable injustice inflicted upon the Jewish people.
Although it isn't my usual type of book, I found it to be a beautiful story.'The Book Thief' tells the story of a young girl, Liesel, growing up in Germany during WWII.
Unlikely as it may seem, she goes on to form a close relationship with her foster father as she grows up in a nation inundated by the Nazi regime.Along the way, Liesel forms a friendship with a neighborhood boy, Rudy Steiner.
I had put off reading this story for quite some time because I expected it to be rather bleak.
Mostly, I found the story to be enlightening and inspirational.Overall, this was a fabulous book.
Instead, we have a perfectly round character who seamlessly melds the first- and third-person point of view.Novelists can have a nasty tendency to develop one or two main characters and leave the rest flat and uninteresting (case in point: essentially anything by the Clive Cussler's and Jackie Collins' of the contemporary scene--they fail to realize that people, not just plot, are interesting; unfortunately, many readers these days fail to realize this too).
Full review posted: The Book Thief is a story for those who didn’t get a voice and damn did it break me.   "I am haunted by humans" No coherency beyond this point, you’ve been warned. I mean, what can I say that already hasn’t been said about this book…- Narrated by your fav, Death- HISTORIC FICTION- Takes place in Nazi Germany from the POV of a little german girl- Lisel is basically us, the girl just wants to read- Ft. Hans Hubberman as Dad Goals- Ft.  Saumensch and  Saukerl- Sweet Rudy Steiner
Saumensch and  Saukerl-	Sweet Rudy Steiner -	Pain-	Anguish -	Death-	So much death-	But Death is nice, like it lets you know beforehand that you’re gonna have your feels broken -	And proceeds to do it in the most painful way possible -	Max Vandenburg-	THE WORD SHAKER-	Lisel and her dad reading every night together-	Takes place over a long arc of time, therefore, loads of character development-	Lisel and Rudy being adorbs and hilarious and beautiful little children-	Death being rood as hell and hurting me-	You don’t even gotta know much history and you’ll still understand it-	Crying, crying, crying-	The narration is slow and might take some time to get into but SOOOOOO WORTH IT-	Lots of build up-	Lots of foreshadowing -	Lots of pain-	Now I wanna watch the movie but I’m NOT that much of a masochist so I’ll probably wait for my heart to heal a bit .
THE BEST BOOK I'VE READ ALL YEAR! "He was the crazy one who had painted himself black and defeated the world.""She was the book thief without the words."  Was that really necessary?! I cheated, i got impatient and decided to watch the movie in the middle of the book. I was still not prepared. The book will hit you like nothing else. Maybe i'll write a full review over the weekend if i could stop crying.   It's just a small story really, about, among other things:*A girl*Some words*An accordionis
THE BEST BOOK I'VE READ ALL YEAR!
"He was the crazy one who had painted himself black and defeated the world.""She was the book thief without the words." 
I cheated, i got impatient and decided to watch the movie in the middle of the book.
The book will hit you like nothing else.
It's just a small story really, about, among other things:*A girl*Some words*An accordionist *Some fanatical Germans*A Jewish fist fighter*And quite a lot of thievery 
How cool is it that death itself is telling the story, and feeling sorry for this little girl?
"Please, again, i ask you to believe me.I wanted to stop.
It was beautiful, it was sad, it was poetic.
I loved the characters.
There is such beauty in this book.
A must read for anyone who loves to read.This book is set during WWII Germany and tells the story of Liesel Meminger, a foster girl living outside of Munich.
Liesel learns to read with the help of her accordion playing foster father.
She develops a love of books and cannot help stealing them when the opportunity presents itself.
Liesel also forms another close friendship with a boy who has hair the color of lemons, Rudy Steiner.
