https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32938155-option-b
That said, the advice she offers in this book does not seem relevant or helpful to almost anyone but Sheryl Sandberg (with the possible exception of other billionaire celebrities with limitless job security and financial resources).
In the case of the widows in my life -- which meshes with statistics nationally and internationally -- all of the women were forced to grieve without having the luxury of taking any kind of break from work or family responsibilities.
Although there must be other routes to joy, I don't think you will find the answers in this book.
Ok I didn't quite get through this one before it disappeared from my IPad but I did get through most of it. I found the book to be helpful with good insight not only for someone grieving a loss but also for anyone who is suffering from or have a loved one suffering from a serious illness, or experience some trauma. I also think it would be helpful to anyone who wants to understand how someone who is grieving feels and how you could help them with their grief.
It helps readers learn how to own situations instead of having situations own us.Since many of my readers are widowers or are in a relationship with a widower, the book is about how Sheryl Sandberg was able to put her life back together after the unexpected death of her husband.
It contains tips on how to talk to those who have lost a loved one or struggling with serious life events.Thankfully the book looks beyond simply losing a spouse and you don’t have to have lost a spouse to appreciate the message Sandberg and Grant convey.
can benefit from the message in this book.
Or maybe people haven't actually read the book and just want to express sympathy.There is no denying that Sandberg’s grief is very real and quite raw and the book reflects that.
That’s great, if you don’t actually have any real work to do, or if you have nannies, cooks, house cleaners to take care of the home, etc.
The book is the work of two authors, a business guru and a psychologist, and it’s a relief that Option B pulls stories from various perspectives.Yes, the book tells many stories and is well researched and documented.
The book narrates how Sheryl Sandberg, CEO of Facebook, has been able to cope with the sudden death of her beloved husband who passed away at a relatively young age leaving two young children behind.The book not only explores her experience but also includes the advice she has received from numerous people, how it might be more difficult for certains group of people to be able to cope and get the help and support needed in this type of difficult moments, how other people have coped with unwanted events or tragedies and issues related to other types of hardships such as illnesses, sexual assault, etc.I listened to the audiobook which is narrated by the author and thought the book can be  helpful to those in the grieving process.
Her personal story is honest, devastating and inspiring as she, along with her friend and co-writer, Adam Grant, present a lot of great information and ideas for those who have experienced a loss, also providing advice and suggestions for friends, family and coworkers on how to be supportive and understanding in Option B: Facing Adversity, Building Resilience, and Finding Joy.The book has expertly woven Sandberg’s personal stories with a more technical approach to grief.
Start getting your bookish friends their read on...especially valuable for your friend whose grief is still raw.Sheryl Sandberg lost her husband before he was fifty.
I lost mine when he was not quite 34.
She had to do something positive with her agony or it would sink her, and she was now a single mom.
She couldn't afford the luxury of sinking because it would take her children down as well.
That is a great reason to do the horrible, painful, disconcerting work of growing around your grief.The rest of my review is at my blog because forgiving isn't my strongest suit.
I'm the one who wants to be the full-time wife...And it is with that in mind that I must tell you, Sheryl Sandberg blew me away.
I've been through & continue to face some deep losses & rather than irritating platitudes, Sheryl Sandberg speaks in a way that is relatable.
the one time you really want your money to buy your way out of something, you're powerless.
تو این کتاب نویسنده که از مدیران ارشد فیسبوکه، از تجربیات خودش بعد از مواجه شدن با مرگ همسرش دیو که 
تو این کتاب نویسنده که از مدیران ارشد فیسبوکه، از تجربیات خودش بعد از مواجه شدن با مرگ همسرش دیو که 
This was interesting to read after 'Lean In.' In some ways, Sheryl is absolutely humbled by the tragedy that hit her family.
I enjoy how she dips into the research on real techniques that help in very concrete ways.That said, Sandberg still approaches things from privilege.
In her worst moment, it took a village to raise her up (her family rallies around her and drops everything to prioritize spending time with her, she's gone through tragedy so she goes and calls a brilliant psychologist friend for free advice, she can afford help on other things, etc.).
A cathartic book for Sheryl but it doesn't give much constructive advice. Way too general.
The best book I have come across on grieving and healing
This one is a tear jerker - ugly criers be warned.
Beyond the Instagram selfies and humble brag Facebook posts is a ton of grief in all of our lives that we do our best to hide from others.
Option B uses Sheryl's tragedy to openly discuss trauma, it's impact, recovery, and post trauma growth in a tone free of pretension.
I especially appreciated parts of the book that recommended actions to take to support a friend experiencing a loss of some kind.
There's a lot of realness in this book.
I'm glad I read it and I hope all of my friends do too.
I remember hearing of Sandberg’s husband’s sudden death of cardiac arrhythmia while on an exercise machine in a Mexico hotel.
(Elizabeth Alexander’s husband died in similar circumstances; she wrote about it in The Light of the World.) I think I expected this to be a straightforward bereavement memoir, when in fact it’s more of a self-help guide about developing resilience, whether or not you’re recovering from loss or trauma.Sandberg co-wrote this with psychologist Adam Grant, so even where you see “I” you’re not entirely sure it’s her words.
Even though she kept a journal in the five months following Dave’s death, only one entry is reproduced here.
This book is about her reaction to the intense pain and grief she experienced and how she worked through the emotional turmoil and adversity to build resilience in life and find happiness in the aftermath of the family tragedy.Sandberg and co-author Adam Grant share their experiences and research on grief and resiliency, citing many psychological authorities and research studies on anxiety, affective forecasting, self-compassion and self-confidence, four core beliefs that build resiliency in kids, even the “mum effect” to name just a few of the many very interesting concepts explored in this 176-page, non-fiction self-help book.Perhaps it’s the brevity of the book that did not sit well with me, leaving me with a sense of unfulfillment and dissatisfaction.
It’s about strengthening the muscles around our backbone.– Sheryl SandbergThis book isn't just about bouncing back from a loved one's death — it's about moving forward and post traumatic growth.
Believe you matter and you spend more time helping others, which helps you matter even more.
Believe you have strengths and you start seeing opportunities to use them.
Believe you are a wizard who can cross the space-time continuum and you may have gone too far.""When we are no longer able to change a situation, we are challenged to change ourselves." - Viktor Frankl
She weaves in all these statistics that show the grim reality of a lot of people but shows no compassion, offers no help, just, in the next breath, talks about her private nannies and how she was 'so fortunate' to take time off from work.
Yes, he wrote it on Facebook but you don't get to take credit for him and his work (but do please read his book, You Will Not Have My Hate, 5 stars) In terms of usefulness: What this book has is a lot of platitudes and inserted "advice" from other sources or people, such as Emily McDowell, who ARE worthy of your time.
The topic of this book is not an easy one to cover and let's be honest, the majority of authors that do pen such books related to rebounding from grief have some kind of educational background or job experience that gives them the authority to advise.Sandberg uses her personal experience (the passing of her husband), to explain to readers that despite the pain and loss, happiness can still return (if allowed).
With the aid of her close friend, Adam Grant, Sandberg fuses statistics and facts with the experiences of other members of society who experienced some sort of tragedy.
به عنوان یک کتاب خودیاری کتاب بدی نیست، اما به نظرم حجم زیادش یه مقدار اثرگذاریش رو کم کرده. با این حال بیشتر از هر کسی به درد افرادی میخوره که اخیرا کسی رو از دست دادند یا اطرافیان چنین افرادی.نکتهای هم که حین گوش دادن به نسخه صوتی کتاب خیلی توجهم رو جلب میکرد هوش بالای بچهها بود. نمیدونم چرا حس میکنم هوش هیجانی بچههای خارجی نسبت به هوش بچههای ایرانی بیشتره. به خاطر محیطه یا آموزش یا والدین یا ژنتیک یا کلا اشتباه میکنم؟
به عنوان یک کتاب خودیاری کتاب بدی نیست، اما به نظرم حجم زیادش یه مقدار اثرگذاریش رو کم کرده. با این حال بیشتر از هر کسی به درد افرادی می‌خوره که اخیرا کسی رو از دست دادند یا اطرافیان چنین افرادی.نکته‌ای هم که حین گوش دادن به نسخه صوتی کتاب خیلی توجهم رو جلب می‌کرد هوش بالای بچه‌ها بود. نمی‌دونم چرا حس می‌کنم هوش هیجانی بچه‌های خارجی نسبت به هوش بچه‌های ایرانی بیشتره. به خاطر محیطه یا آموزش یا والدین یا ژنتیک یا کلا اشتباه می‌کنم؟
I’ve read some of the negative reviews of Sandberg’s books and I agree with them to a point.
Sandberg does discuss how she personally handled the grief of losing a spouse, and she generalized her efforts to deal with the grief and moving on while remembering into advice for all.
It’s that advice for all that was a bit off-putting, as Sandberg does live a blessed life in terms of personal finances and in terms of corporate power.
I also appreciated the memoir, the personal face Sandberg was willing to put into her book.
آپدیت: اینجا در موردش بیشتر نوشتم.https://sadraa.me/%d9%85%d9%88%d8%a7%...خوندش مثل واکسن بود، اگر تراژدی به تازگی براتون رخ داده یا در آینده ممکنه رخ بده خوندن این کتاب رو مد نظر داشته باشید. اونقدر کتاب تکان دهنده ای نیست ولی خب کمک میکنه خیلی از ساختارهای روانی بعد از تراژدی رو متوجه بشیم. یکم خیلی جهان اولی هست نوع مشکلش ولی خب تراژدی بزرگ و کوچیک نمیشناسه. شت هپنز
Really not fair to rate this book, simply this is not my book of choice. Read this for neighborhood book club. It's not bad and was enlightening.
I have not yet read Sandberg's popular book Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead, even though I have a copy on my book shelf.
I have a new respect for this woman now, and think I will read Lean In to see what else she has to say, though in this book she admits herself that some things she wrote in Lean In were out of touch for women who are single parents raising their children alone, something she had no concept of when she wrote it.
Not all of the author's friends, coworkers, and acquaintances said the perfect things to her after her husband died. She remembered every transgression, and then wrote a book detailing them. I was hoping that I would learn something about resilience from this book. Instead, after reading the author's judgements on all sorts of well-meaning reactions to her loss, I'm even more uncomfortable speaking to people who are grieving.
4.0 Stars - Resilience has become my new word! I'm normally not a self-help reader, but the message in this story really hit home for me. I highly recommend this one to anyone looking for the strength to persevere through the challenges parts of life.
This book is going next to "When Bad Things Happen to Good People" on the shelf* for rough times in my own life and in the lives of those I love.
Reading this was uplifting, informative, and instructive for me as I try to develop the resilience needed to get through the rest of my pregnancy and enter into mothering a living child.
Please buy this for yourself or any readers you know who are reeling from loss or slogging through a big challenge.*figuratively, since I listened to the audiobook (which was a great way to read this book!)
I chose this book because of my dark days after losing my dad last year.
The materials could be written as a long article not a book.
All in all, it is good to remind important things again here:1- accept the loss and don't blame yourself for that2- accept the sad feeling, and let it come out of you3- friends are important elements in this stage.
(let you sad moment improves your character)5- don't feel bad if you found joy and feel happy again.
As some of the other reviewers have noted, many of the concepts she touches on learning and adapting are seemingly basic, however—all of the best ways to help yourself during tragedy usually are.
It's having the strength to apply those basics in the moment of tragedy that's the hardest part.
Sheryl's honesty is really the best part of the book, opening up to the readers about her progress forward.
While the book is written as if narrated by Sheryl the entire time, Adam Grant's contributions of research and study are also clear and help round out the book with stories of other people's experiences making the entire book incredibly interesting and engaging.
This started Sheryl and her two children on their path down Option B.
Sheryl also talks about becoming resilient and eventually moving on and finding happiness in life.
This is a great book for those who are grieving but also for those who are supporting those who have had a major loss.
Sometimes, that person just wants to talk and reflect and that was the case for Sheryl.
In the future, I'll remember to ask and to allow the griever to talk if they would like.Many of the topics covered can be applied to other losses as well.
I figured this would be a half parts Sheryl Sandberg's memoir and half parts Adam Grant's research on the topic of resilience.
Several times, I found myself choking up as I read/listened to Sandberg talk about her husband's death.
But the research itself could be condensed into a single TED talk.
I just was expecting more data and studies to back up the advice.
And everything said, it's still a great book and despite all my complaints, mixing research with co-author's memoir is a great format and made the whole topic very engaging.
Just lower your expectations if you're excited for a good social sciences research book.
