https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205476.Our_Town
*Read for class*I enjoyed this WAY more than I thought I would. I expected it to just be boring Americana which is totally not my thing but the last act just totally blew me away. It was profound and thoughtful and terrifyingly accurate, but very well done.
American playwriting at its best. I think the most stunning thing is that this book manages to convey a deep sense of human tragedy without portraying people who rabidly abuse each other. This is also why many hack directors (not to mention high schools) have been able to produce the work as a saccharine fairytale, and the bad reputation of this play can certainly be attributed to these careless people. But you, my dear critical thinker--you should read this.
Winner of the 1938 Pulitzer Prize for drama.Occasionally a book comes along that makes me say, now this is why I read.
Through the first two acts of this play I was loving it and thinking, this is the Americana that is fast disappearing, maybe already has.
Then act 3 knocked me flat.
What happened was unexpected, and the message that Wilder presented made me stop and think.
It caused me to reflect on my life and the people in it.I don't give many five star ratings, but this book is special, at least for me.
Most of the time we are going about our little sphere doing much the same thing, with the same people; and Mr. Wilder wrote a play that reminds us that this is not at all a bad thing.The three acts of this play are structured in a manner that allows them to encompass the most salient features of human life: everyday living, love/marriage, and of course death.
"Our Town" painfully reminds us of this fact of life.This play is worth reading, then reading again, and after another interval, reading again.
Yarg!!).But the movie also stars Claire Daines who I used to be a big fan of in the series My So Called Life.
The series ended with a telling of Thornton Wilder's play, Our Town.
So, while I read the play I imagined Gray in that role and let Thornton Wilder take me to Grover's Corners for the mundane drama that is everyday life, for the metaphors that still resound today.And I loved it.I loved every character.Even the school teacher (didn't see that one coming, did you Dan?).I loved everything they did and everything they said.That a character can come in, be given all the aspirations and talents in the world then be destroyed by a few words from the Stage Manager dumbfounds me.
I fully appreciate that plays are written in order to be viewed on stage, not on page, and that people who judge a play after merely reading it are probably the bane of a playwright's life.
That said, I feel that if there's any play that's could be "seen" just as well in the mind of the reader, it's  Our Town..
Which I did enjoy about this reading/mental viewing experience, since I felt guilty about not having seen it.Another thing I liked in this play is the continual communication with the audience.
I appreciate that he's trying to show how life is art, or should be seen as art.
I REALLY like stories that draw attention to the wonder in life, and this play if definitely one of those stories.
In a market where YA books are all about being the hero, saving the world, getting the girl, etc., here's a little story about the meaning and purpose of just being an ordinary person living an ordinary life.
It's about appreciating the little, seemingly unimportant things.
XD) Really the only negative is that towards the end the author portrays the afterlife as a little...
It's used to make a poignant point, and I don't think it's what the author himself actually believes, but it could definitely confuse younger readers.
It is Thornton Wilder's most renowned and most frequently performed play.Our Town is a 1940 film adaptation of a play of the same name by Thornton Wilder starring William Holden, Martha Scott, Fay Bainter, Beulah Bondi, Thomas Mitchell, Guy Kibbee and Frank Craven.
It was adapted by Harry Chandlee, Craven and Wilder.
The movie was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture.
Scott, who repeated her stage role as Emily Webb, was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress, and Aaron Copland was nominated for Best Score.Watch hereOur Town2* The Bridge of San Luis Rey5* The Ides of March
بعد از اونيل، ويليامز، پينتر، بكت، سارتر، البي و مكدونا، ديشب وايلدر هم به جمع نمايشنامه نويسان استثنايي پيوست... alienation effect نداشت نميدونم چي ميشد!
A timeless masterpiece!This is absolutely my favorite play.
It is timeless and universal, pertaining to anyone, anywhere.
The story takes place in a small town at the turn of the century, in 1901, and takes place over the course of about fourteen years.
The play has three acts that each represent daily life, love and marriage, and death.
Living people are portrayed as ignorant to life's small significances.
This play taught me to have a unique appreciation for life and its offerings.
As I mentioned, its ideas are universal and very sentimental.
It’s a regular little town in the US a hundred years ago. It’s an extraordinary little town in the US a hundred years ago. It’s very ordinariness makes it extraordinary. As is, Wilder hints, all life. To walk. To talk. To eat. To drink. And, perhaps most of all, sharing this amazing life with others. Read this play and you will remember to be alive. To everything.
Read this for my English class, very different play with a great message!
I have read this book too many times to count. It is amazingly ageless and speaks to each generation. I was priviledged to see Paul Newman open as the Stage Manager on opening night in Wesport,CT. I read quotes from it at my younger sister's funeral. I carries a lot of weight with me. Read the book before you ever see a high school production!
Do any human beings ever realize life while they live it? - every.. every minute?
The Ghosts of Belfast review, Part IVPart I http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... Part II http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Part III http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... The Troubles, continued(view spoiler)[ Casualties, continued  (view spoiler)[ In memoriam, continued  (view spoiler)[Corporals killings 19 Mar 88 (2 killed by PIRA at funeral) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporal... Lisburn van bombing 15 June 88 (6 British Army soldiers killed by PIRA bomb) http://en.wikipedia.org
Shankill Road bombing 23 Oct 93 (10 killed by PIRA bomb) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shankill...
Links to Wiki articles on the book are given where they exist.Top 10 Non-fiction books on The TroublesNote that writing non-fiction about the Troubles is not the safest occupation in the world.1973 War and an Irish Town, Eamonn Mccann1987 Ten Men Dead, David Beresford1995  Rebel Hearts , Kevin Toolis1995  Belfast Diary: War as a Way of Life , John Conroy1997  Killing Rage , Eamonn Collins (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killing_...
The characters are ordinary.The story is ordinary.The happenstances are ordinary.The life-love-marriage-death, is ordinary.The life of Grover Corners is ordinary.
The setting is ordinary.But.But.But.Thronton Wilder snatches these mundane moments from our lives and puts them on his stage: raw, exposed and vulnerable for all to see.
An ambition to change the way of life dances in the eyes of a young man, a young woman adores the moon and romanticizes a future, an elderly couple pass into quietness; the lines said by these people are all taken from pages of our own lives.
I remember reading this back in high school, and at that time I thought this was one of the most boring things I ever read.
However, in rereading this as an adult I discovered that there is something to appreciate in this play.
The basic message of this play is that life is made up of a lot of mundane everyday activities, and that we often don't appreciate these experiences until it's too late.
So, if you've only read this as a high school student, it might be a good idea to check it out again.
In my own town growing up, we had a milkman deliver our milk and we discussed what to do with our farm when I was little so these little things really struck a chord and I came along seventy years after this play is set.
Wilder’s approach differs from the over the top drama in say many of Tennessee Williams’ plays, a contemporary.
By the way, I like Tennessee Williams writing, even when the characters are throwing vases at one another.
After reading the play, I watched the 1940 William Holden movie version.
This story takes place in a small, New Hampshire town, like the one I was born in and lived in for a time, with it's "New England Yankee" values.
As with the case with people everywhere, there's tragedy in this story, which is often over-looked; instead, as one reviewer below puts it, it's often staged as a saccharine fairy-tale.
This has been reinforced by the 1940 film version, starring William Holden.But in Wilder's own "Some Suggestions for the Director,” he writes, “It is important to maintain a continual dryness of tone—the New England understatement of sentiment, of surprise, of tragedy.”Coming from a family of that ilk, I know exactly why that temperament creates significant problems.
An easy one-sitting read. This was surprisingly interesting for being a slice-of-life play about a play. Each act skips ahead a few years, and the play concludes with a deceased character reflecting on life. Overall, it's thoughtful and emphasizes how much living people don't understand the brevity of life and appreciate the time they have. Definitely worth reading and pondering!
Reread with my English I class. I played the Stage Manager in class and sobbed like a baby through the flashback scene. Need I say more? This is amazing and changes my perspective a little bit every time I read it. A book or play that can do that is truly something special. Seize the day!
Brilliant allegory, but needs to be seen.
"Mother Gibbs, I never realized before how troubled and how ... how in dark live persons are."
Ένα από κλασικότερα Αμερικάνικα θεατρικά έργα, επιτέλους κυκλοφορεί και στα ελληνικά, από τις εκδόσεις Ηριδανός.
Πρωταγωνιστούν άνθρωποι απλοϊκοί και καθημερινοί, με τους αναγνώστες/θεατές να γίνονται μάρτυρες κάποιων καίριων γεγονότων μέσα σε διάστημα δώδεκα ετών, με το όλο έργο να χωρίζεται σε τρεις πράξεις: "Καθημερινή ζωή", "Έρωτας και Γάμος" και "Θάνατος και Αιωνιότητα".
Πρόκειται για ένα ωραίο θεατρικό έργο, με νοσταλγική διάθεση και με αλληγορική σημασία για τη ζωή γενικότερα, που στο τέλος αφήνει μια γλυκόπικρη γεύση στον αναγνώστη/θεατή, όπως συνήθως κάνει και η ίδια η ζωή.
Χαίρομαι πολύ που το διάβασα.
It portrays our environment, lives, and death within the very few pages.
The story is so vivid, it draws one into the town, and the lives of the characters.
Emily symbolizes life, marriage, and death.
In life, she is almost always with his friend and neighbor George Gibbs.
However, she looses her life as well as the foetus during choldbirth.
On the other hand, George believes he can love Emily forever.
All in all the Town is has people from all background.
Always we are reminded to live and be happy as it is only through life that we can be happy.
Most people read this play too early in life to fully appreciate it.
I read this play for the first time when I was in 7th grade.
I will be honest I didn’t enjoy it.
As the years slide by, I enjoy this play more and more.
The look at life at the turn of the century is more fascinating, and the characters become more human to me, more nuanced in their layers of development.
This is one of the great plays that everyone should read or see during their life, and in the later years when you can fully enjoy it.
A beautiful and sad play.The play is performed without a set and the actors mime their actions without the use of props, With a narration by a stage manager, All these elements make the play very interesting and challengeable to any director.I always feel sad when writers talk about the ordinary every-day life, Don't kown exactly why?, In this play along with the ordinary lives of its characters, The third act with its funeral atmosphere made it almost a melancholy play.Wilder's language in the description and the dialogues are very precise and beautiful.
It's short. It's an easy read. It's a play. How can you go wrong?This was a great book with a great theme, although how he portrays the afterlife is a little weird and slightly confusing. It has a really great message though and I would recommend it for older, more discerning readers :)
So I am thinking about auditioning for Our Town this fall and realized that I had not yet read it. A classic simply because it represents a snippet of life in a long ago time (over 100 years now!). Reminiscent of a Walton novel, Wilder's staging is different than normal because his stage manager breaks the fourth wall.
