https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24612020-the-case-against-satan
Ray Russell’s The Case Against Satan was published in 1962, 9 years before William Peter Blatty’s The Exorcist but it’s less well-known probably because of the enormous popularity of the 1973 movie adaptation of Blatty’s book.
The storyline of a possessed girl and a priest having to exorcise her at this point in time is so well-worn it’s almost a cliché!
The doubting priest, the troubled girl, the questions over whether she’s faking it or is really possessed - I know this wasn’t well-known material back then but it is today and that made it quite a predictable and unexciting read for me.
I think that one of the problems in discussing this book is that a lot of readers have come to it with expectations of something along the lines of Blatty's The Exorcist, but that just isn't the case.
In this novel, we are told from the outset exactly what this book is going to be about:  "a priest of the Roman Catholic Church was put on trial one harrowing weekend in the second half of the twentieth century."  Why and how he's "put on trial" is the focal point of this novel, and yet somehow, the draw for a lot of readers seems to be only the expectations of the exorcism that takes place here.
THE EXORCIST written before THE EXORCIST that I enjoyed much more than THE EXORCIST.Although the ending is wrapped up a little *too* neatly, this was still a nicely-paced, tightly-written story of good vs.
evil.
I did, however, get a bitter laugh out of Russell's apologetic afterward, in which he begs forgiveness for such lurid plot details as incest and drunken priests; heady stuff for 1962, maybe, but 146 shades lighter than the typical LAW AND ORDER: SVU episode.PS: I betcha Stephen King is a fan of this.
Several of the characters herein share names (Halloran, Barlow, etc.) of characters from some of King's earliest books.
It's the gold standard for possession/exorcism stories, and if you try to compare other stories of the same nature to it, they are never quite going to live up to its brilliance.The Case Against Satan was written in 1962, almost a full decade before The Exorcist.
Penguin brought Ray Russell's novel The Case Against Satan back into publication in 2015, so most people today are probably going to approach this book having read The Exorcist, and with certain expectations.
However, they are two very different stories.The Case Against Satan is much more about the one of the priests who performs the exorcism, rather than the girl who is possessed.
Whew!
Did I have a wicked time with that one or what?
Once you've seen The Exorcist, novels about the occult can only scare you in one way: when you can't make up your mind whether there is an explanation for what is happening or you're losing your mind.
This feed riiiight into it, which is impressive since it predates The Exorcist by many years.
What are the evils eating away at Susan Garth?
The Case Against Satan might be a little portentous at times, but it delivers genuine thrills and will make you question your own beliefs.
It wasn't until I noticed a highly complimentary review of his 1962 novel "The Case Against Satan," in Jones & Newman's excellent overview volume "Horror: Another 100 Best Books," that I even knew he was an author at all, but I've since run across a quote from a guy named Stephen King, calling Russell's original novella "Sardonicus" "perhaps the finest example of the modern gothic ever written"!
I DO still want to read Blatty's book (especially since it was chosen for inclusion in Jones & Newman's first volume, "Horror: 100 Best Books"), but very much doubt that it will be as concise, intelligent and thought provoking as Russell's.
Maybe a bit dated now, it was considered shocking in 1962 but seems almost quaint by today's horror standards. A good ol' devil in the soul story that probably has a little too much Roman Catholic baggage for the average reader today. It's still a good story well told but the deep questions it wrestles with don't really seem so important when you are faced with berserk fanatics in the streets every day, It partakes of a simpler time when stories like this could really make you think. Now it's just a jolly good read and appropriately for Christmas time.
I thought this book started great. Intriguing and creepy. Some great short vignettes through the early chapters with interesting twists. But at the end I thought the book just tried to do too much and several of the storylines weren't sufficiently fleshed out or closed down. So the end got a little haphazard and disappointing. But better than just okay. Entertaining if nothing else.
демони поводяться доволі демонічно, кидаючи дівчиною та змушуючи її говорити всіляке дуже страшне й непристойне як на 1962 рік, але цього добра теж небагато.
авторові важливе інше: наприклад, як освіченому священикові з середини двадцятого століття повірити в середньовічного диявола; через які шпаринки вразливості залазять у душу демони; і - оце взагалі цікавезно - чи можна говорити про цілковиту таємницю сповіді, коли священик же теж людина і не може контролювати свого несвідомого.
це, звісно, робить роман текстом більше про людей, ніж про надприродне, зате дає харчі для роздумів з приводу не тільки всезагальної боротьби добра і зла, а й деяких практичніших (наскільки можна вживати це слово в такому контексті) приводів.
Technically, it was Ray Russell, not William Peter Blatty, who first brought the Catholic ritual of exorcism to the broad American consciousness.
Still, it was The Exorcist, not The Case Against Satan, that went on to become a blockbuster American franchise.
Russell's rendition is certainly less profane, less obscene, and therefore less sensational.
But both are well written, and both are securely anchored in actual catholic doctrines and rituals.
If forced to choose, I'd rank TCAS a little higher on my horror scale solely because Russell evoked that same gut-level sense of terror and peril with less devices and contraptions ...but it's a tough call.
It was the arresting cover that initially caught my eye and then the intriguing title. A shorter length novel of two priests who battle for the soul of a young girl. I would not quite class it as predominantly a horror novel, it didn't to my mind have that impact or atmosphere, perhaps due to the shorter length. There were parts that I felt could have been expanded upon and there were several questions that I didn't feel were answered adequately for my piece of mind. Still an interesting read that kept me entertained.
I really ended up enjoying this short novel!
Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/QLF7aLE4BJI
That puts Ray Russell’s novel out of the chute nine years before Blatty’s demonic extravaganza.
I don’t know that Blatty ever acknowledged Russell as an influence, but it is also wrong to view Russell’s short novel as merely a tame precursor to Blatty’s bestseller.
Blatty based his novel on a 1949 case of supposed possession in St Louis and used the storyline to create a pyrotechnic combat of good versus a very real supernatural evil.
Russell is worth reading for anyone interested in the development of what became the boom in American horror writing that began just a few years after The Case Against Satan.
This was an interesting story, though, really, despite the excellent cover, it's not really that much of a horror novel.
It doesn't circle back around to the matter at hand, the exorcism of Susan Garth, until about halfway, and doesn't really get started on it for another two-dozen pages past that, and it's over fairly quickly, leaving the rest of the novel a bit of a police procedural.I believe this may be the crux of the issue for me.
For such a slim novel--weighing in at 140 pages--it doesn't quite seem to know exactly where it wants to go.
I also find it interesting how one can reconcile ancient dogmas with modern life and the latest developments of science, technology and philosophy.This story of course focuses on a girl who either has big psychological problems or is possessed by the devil.
The local priest who has to attempt an exorcism is forced to examine the depth of his own faith and reconcile aspects of his beliefs that he was perhaps all to ready to explain away with modern psychological theories.
But as the story reaches its conclusion and the priest restores his faith, we are left wondering to what extent it could all be explained away with Freudian analysis.
The back cover says that before THE EXORCIST and ROSEMARY’S BABY there was THE CASE AGAINST SATAN by Ray Russell, who we can thank for last century’s popular demonic possession resurgence.
An introduction writes how Russell’s work is less lurid than what followed, which is a shame, because the subject matter is best served sensationally.
Here restraint may amplify the human drama at the center of this supernatural one, but I’m a sucker for a good pea-soup puke.
That said, the “realism” with which Russell tells his story creates a good drama, and he has the fine sense for brevity, which many a storyteller could learn from.
Whoa, that was an easy read-I polished it off in a single afternoon. It reads a lot like a novelization-perhaps not surprising in light of Russell's work in the film industry. Fun and light, but not scary.
Ray Russell's The Case Against Satan may appear derivative and trite if read without the knowledge that this book was published before William Peter Blatty's the Exorcist.
The most interesting scenes that Russell provides in The Case Against Satan is the debates that involve Gregory and the bishop, Conrad Crimmings.
The Case Against Satan in the end is an outdated book for horror aficionados only, for readers who are just starting to embark the genre of the macabre would probably find it better to their taste to pick up Blatty's novel, or even Paul Tremblay's A Head Full of Ghosts instead.
Now that I am older and not in constant fair of the Evil One, I enjoy reading horror novels, especially classical ones.
Now, I have not read "The Exorcist" but if this book was the inspiration, then I'm looking forward to it.The Case Against Satan is about evil, incest, sexual assault, and of course The Light Bringer.
Crimmings is very sure of himself, but Sargent is very much plagued by doubts about if Satan exists, he believes in God, but only thinks about Satan in the abstract.
Everything else is good, but that little bit of doubt peppered in made it enjoyable to read.
The person on the receiving end of the exorcism is an adolescent girl.A major difference between this novel and The Exorcist is that, in this novel, there is some doubt as to whether the adolescent's violent reaction to Christian holy objects and rituals is due to demonic possession.
It could be a psychiatric problem, originating in the disturbing treatment of the girl by her father.The novel was a quick read, which attests to its the Hemingwayesque prose style---simple words, short sentences, economy of expression.
This book makes flabby, door stopper horror novels look like a joke.
Gli psichiatri sono fuori questione: Susan non è pazza, ha solo qualcosa che non va.Col tempo, all'interno del romanzo, ho assistito a colpi di scena magnifici, svolte incredibili e evoluzioni dei personaggi degne di nota.Il diavolo potrebbe risiedere nel corpo di Susan, ma come ci è entrato?
Avrei preferito che durasse di più, avrei voluto esplorare la storia di Susan e del suo esorcismo fin nel profondo.Piccolo appunto: alla fine l'autore non svela se la verità che Susan dice - non vi farò spoiler, come al solito - è reale o dettata da un'altra persona che vive dentro di lei, perciò questo libro mi farà letteralmente impazzire nei prossimi giorni.
Like other horror novels of that era, it does suffer from the need to over-explain things via armchair psychoanalysis(Robert Bloch's "Psycho" also comes to mind in that regard), and the actions and thought processes of some of the adult characters comes off as a little naïve and childish to the modern reader (many of the characters in the book seem shocked at the very idea of Catholic priests acting in a less than honorable manner, for example: history has shown us otherwise).
Father Gregory is a priest rooted in logic and psychology, he likes to drink and he might be a heretic because he doesn't believe in Satan.
When Father Gregory gets reassigned to a parish in a small town as punishment for being drunk while performing last rites he meets Susan Garth a clearly troubled teen who is afraid of going to hell.
I guess exorcisms in general are boring affairs.Russell populates this book with minor characters who's only purpose is that of filler, they really do nothing to move the story along.
Almost 10 years before THE EXORCIST was written, Ray Russell published this short novel about a 16 year old girl possessed and the two Catholic priests who seek to exorcise the demon within her.
It's the better of the two as well, the writing itself is fantastic (many people have made the case for Ray Russell's writing being the catalyst for modern Gothic horror) and it's very creepy.
Russell delves in to the philosophy and faith behind demonic possession and the act of exorcism, something THE EXORCIST left behind in favor of shock value supernatural scares and gore.
Pedophilia, incest, drunken priests...and ...SATAN!
Or maybe not...but the one thing that really blows is this conversation at the end: SPOILER ALERT Susan: "I've been doing a lot of thinking; and I've talked it over with Father Halloran.
I think I'll become a med student.
What do you think?"Priest: "It sounds fine.
Only thing is the few lady doctors I've ever known personally have been--not too easy on the eyes.
You'll certainly be the prettiest lady doctor in these parts...And this gem: Priest: "But some young male med student might try to change your mind.
Sigh...I guess he is a PRIEST...
The book started well.
I was immediately hooked in the first few pages.
But, in my opinion, it fell flat pretty quickly after that, bogging down and becoming fairly predictable.
Given that this book was written before the demon-possession craze hit horror back in the 60s and 70s, it was probably innovative at the time.
But in the 21st century, I found it to be fairly bland.It was a quick read though and Russell's writing is rather economical to the point of being terse at times.
Not a bad book; just the tropes are a bit too well-tread to be very interesting in our day and age.
This was given to me as a payday present based on the fact that I read a lot about exorcism, but mainly non fiction.This is a great creepy story, where you are never quite sure who is doing things for the right reasons and who is in it for personal blame.It does a great job of blurring the lines so you are never quite sure if it is a possession or not and it gets the small town mentality down perfectly.A great, quick read.
Well, meh. Exorcism gone boring. The beginning is creepy but dragging it way too long.
I was immediately devouring this book.
It reminded me greatly of The Exorcist with some of the pacing and scenes clearly borrowed from this book; written six years earlier.I adore the hypnotic cover art, eyes omitted.
I giggled at the looks I got whilst reading it on the subway...The narrative is new for me, a John Hurt-like voice describing the sights and sounds in my mind's eye.The book leaves you with a very interesting question, one that I don't want to give away.
I am excited to delve more deeply into his other works of art.Highly recommended.
A formidable voice and imagination.
