https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/409279.The_Happy_Man_and_His_Dump_Truck
Miryam, The Happy Man and His Dump Truck (Golden Press, 1950)I have to admit, I am at a loss to explain the enduring popularity of this book at Goat Central.
My wife, who originally had our copy when she was a toddler, tells me it was one of her younger brother's favorites when he was two or three years old, and now the Bean can't go more than two or three days without this one coming right back into rotation.
It could be Tibor Gergely's illustrations, which have an interesting, kind of Asian feel to them at times (the dog sliding down the dump truck has a definite Chinese dragon feel to him).
this book tells the story of a happy man who drives around and picks up farm animals in his dump truck.
for some reason, i loved this book when i was little and was inspired to wish for a dump truck of my own.
my plan was to have my mom drive it when it was her carpool day.
my mom could pick all of my friends up-- one by one-- on the way to school and we could have a party.
just like the "happy man." only in my plan, she would stop at Exxon for twinkies and apple juice for all of us.
I found this is a search through my library's catalog as I prep for a Truck-themed story time. Although sweet, it's definitely dated (original copyright 1950). This might function as a short filler with my preschool crowd, but only if I can't find anything better.
Every time I read this to my daughter, it cracks me up. Here’s this drunk looking dude with a dump truck picking up farm animals and having them slide down his dumper. The farmer’s reaction says it all.
For my 4YONice book with vivid Colours and happy pictures. Covered all the farm animals and their sounds. Good book for little ones
All of the illustrations and writing point to the warmth and simplicity of the time it was first released, the 1950s, and I think that the book can be just as successful now as ever because of the kindness with which it is told.
A man driving a dump truck gives a ride to one animal, who enjoys it so much that soon the man has invited all of the other farm animals to ride, too, sliding around in the back as the man tilts it up and down.
Young kids who like animals or trucks will be partial to this book, and the ones that like animals and trucks won't be able to get enough of it!
I remember being read this story by my Grandmother and Mother as a little girl.
Once I had a son of my own it quickly became one of his favorites too as I read it to him, over, and over, and over again.
I love classic Little Golden Books like this, they truly are timeless and can be spread throughout the generations.
My son always liked how the animals got such a great ride from the man and got to have such a fun time.Got to love the wonderful classics!5/5 Stars by far!!!!
I mean, it's not safe to ride around in the back of a dump truck and most likely the Happy Man's animal passengers would have been gravely injured when he tipped the dumper while they were all inside.
The Happy Man just seems a little irresponsible, is all.
But, like I said, seeing Gavin clutch this book to his chest as he walked around the children's emergency ward after a horrible allergic reaction I will no doubt have a bittersweet fondness for The Happy Man and His Dump Truck for quite some time.
Synopsis: "A happy man thrills a group of farm animals when he takes them for a joy ride in his dump truck. This book is a true classic illustrated by the inimitable Tibor Gergely."My Review: This was a great little classic story. It was short and simple with the classic illustrations. It combined many of the things Munchkin loves, dump trucks and animals. He loved pointing out the animals and making their sounds. Of course now he thinks he should get to ride in the dump bed and get to slide out.
This book is a little silly, but still kind of cute at the same time. About a man who is very happy and loves to share his happiness with his friends. He picks up the pig and visits the farm animals and gives them all a ride. It's kind of strange with the talking animals, but at the end they all say "thanks" in their own animal language. Sweet because of the happy temperament of the man and his willingness to share his cheer. Not a favorite, but not too bad either.
This book is not a particularly complex book, and it's quite old, but I don't know a kid (ages 6 months -2 years old) who can resist all of the farm animals sliding around in the back of the dump truck. The farmer loves to give them rides. Vocabulary for the younger set helps them identify the names of the different animals. Print awareness is also easy to teach in this simple book as the animals greet the happy farmer.
This is such a strange book. The illustrations are charming and the board book format is pleasing. Of course my boys love it, especially the two-year-old. After a few readings it starts seeming to make a little more sense, or maybe that is just the work of the desperate desire within my soul to make sense of the nonsensical.
I'm an adult but not a grown-up: The title makes me giggle. Aside from that, this book is a cute little non-story. I didn't buy this book for the text, and I doubt if anyone else does. I bought this book for Tibor Gergely's fabulous illustrations. The illustrations completely make this book. They are filled with wit and humor, and are downright wonderful.
The Boy likes it... but seriously: what is this other than a non sequitur? Just an excuse to put a dump truck in a book for little kids? There's no plot. Nothing here. The only thing that you don't get from the title is the farm animals. And maybe that's the twist ending. "The Happy Man and His Dump Truck... AND FARM ANIMALS!"
My son really liked this when he was about three. It is old-fashioned and quaint. The only thing I don't like is that it teaches that it is okay to get into a truck with a stranger! (But I don't think they were politically correct back when this book was written, tee hee.)
My 2-year old son loves this book. The pictures are decent and contain some recognizable objects and animals. The story is cute and silly. The text on each page is brief to accommodate a limited attention span. He likes vehicles at this age, so perhaps that is the main attraction.
Read: board book (owned)I'm not sure what it is, but my son really enjoys this book. He calls it the happy book, and we read it a lot because he enjoys it so much. It's about a happy man giving some animals a ride in his dump truck.
My little boy Josh loves this book because he loves cars and trucks. This is a cute book about a kind man who lets the animals all ride in his dump truck. Cute story for kids especially little ones because you can imatate the animal sounds.
Sooooooooo silly. If PETA were to compile a recommended reading list for children, this book wouldn't make it. Ah, the magic of Little Golden Books reprinting vintage titles.
A bizarre little story about a man who gives rides to farm animals in his dump truck. They love it when he tips the dumper so they can slide down. Odd story, cute illustrations.
The story line was rather banal, but it does teach some animal sounds.
Cute.This would make a lovely addition to everyone's personal library.
The sliding, gleefully squealing pig gave me so much delight that I clearly am going to remember it for ever.
One of the most awesome books ever written. It's one of the stories I remember most from my childhood. Now that it's back in print, you can bet there will be a copy going to my nephew in Texas.
I predict this will be a favorite of Dylan's in a couple of years!
Roger's favorite read-aloud book and Sarah's favorite book when she was maybe two?
I read this numerous times during my childhood, if I was upset and sad. This book would cheer me up in a matter of a few minutes.
My toddler had no problem with this book, but I was surprised at the complete lack of plot. This one will go back to the library very soon.
This has got to be the BEST BOOK EVER WRITTEN/DRAWN! I loved this as a kid and read it over and over--more than any other book.I've got to find a copy for my sons. :-)
A childhood favorite.
