https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/283533.Wheelock_s_Latin
If this is the case I would recommend studying how inflected languages work before even opening Wheelock, or starting off with an easier inflected language, such as German.On the upside for those struggling through an inflected language for the first time, after learning Latin learning all descendant Romance languages will be a walk in the park.On the other hand, anyone who has studied an even more inflected language, such as Ancient Greek or Sanskrit, will find this textbook just a matter of course for getting through, and should come out the other end with no trauma and a competent enough grasp of the language to begin reading.Wheelock does not go into much detail about pronunciation, for which a teacher will probably be necessary unless you have already studied other dead languages.Please note that this text teaches classical Latin.
Technically I have a few more chapters to go, but I'm gonna go ahead and review it. If Wheelock's Latin were a basketball player, it'd be great at making foul shots, but utterly unable to dribble. The good: Wheelock does a good job of teaching you Latin grammar. The bad: it does a good job teaching you Latin grammar--and nothing else. This book teaches you to "read" Latin sentences like algebraic equations--break a contextless sentence into its component parts and solve for the subject, verb, et
The good: Wheelock does a good job of teaching you Latin grammar.
Not until you've completed the entire 40 chapters of grammar do you encounter more than one paragraph of contiguous, simple Latin prose.
Each chapter ends with a rambling page or two about some ancient Latin graffiti--pages and pages wasted on what amounts to a few sentences that could have been dedicated to useful, graded reading passages.
If your goal is to have read at least one simple book--or even a short story--in Latin after a year of study, then this is not the book for you.It's not that this book is horrible, it is not.
I finished Chapter 40 of Wheelock's Latin this morning, after working on the book about 10 minutes to an hour a day (average: about 20 minutes) before breakfast for about a year, exemplifying how making something a habit and sticking with it every day, no matter what, will definitely get you places.
My declensions, conjugations and parsing skills are still relatively shaky, and I may at some point start all over from Chapter 1 and try to better solidify what I've learned, but I'm very happy with all that I've gained from this daily practice.If you'd like to refresh your Latin, or start from scratch, this is IMHO the best place to start that I know of.
I mean I learned Latin (pretty much)
For generations of American students, "Wheelock's" is the Latin textbook they remember from their schoolyard days.
The book features edited excerpts from real Roman texts in each chapter, so you also get a sense of the variety of usage when the language is actually placed in context.
I guess in closing: Wheelock's is a textbook best as a support to either the Cambridge or Reading Latin.
At the same time, its generous use of real Latin, combined with 40 chapters of thorough material, means that a seriously committed student will take a lot away from it.
Ahhh, Wheelock, an old friend.
Before I knew the glories of advanced scientific/mathematical study and just how valuable a truly excellent textbook is, there was one paperback gem of autodidacticism, one appetite-whetting volume bearing the portent of positive information-acquisition feedback loops to come.
That book was Wheelock's Latin, then in its 3rd edition (I now own the 5th; the 6th has been issued for some time).
While it lacks the extensive excerpts from rhetoric and poetics necessary for any serious study of Latin as a passion, this is the ne plus ultra of a first course -- a method largely axiomatic in character, combined with superb drills.
God bless you, Dr. Wheelock.Publisher's page
The vocabulary list at the back eliminated the need to use a separate dictionary, and the review quizzes were an excellent supplement to the lessons.
In addition, there were supplementary readings for use after the 40 lessons had been completed.
An answer key is available on request from the publisher, and I found that to be helpful.
Of great advantage is the fact that so many additional on-line resources are available that are keyed to this commonly used text, and I used at least half a dozen of them to review and reinforce each chapter.
Latinam amo.
Hic liber mihi latinam docet.
Librum igitur amo.I’m sure it’s not perfect, but it’s tried and true.
And it’s cool.
No other language textbook in the world has taught me to write things like, “Ira mea est magna,” “Infinitus est numerus stultorum,” and “Otium sine litteris mors est.”I like the explanations, I like how the exercises are arranged, and I appreciate the illustrations of classical art.
My only complaint is that the "Latina est gaudium - et utilis!" sections are a bit corny at times, but they can also be illuminating.
I look forward to the day when I have time to finish this book.Rock on, Latin!
What I learned from this book:Latin.
As a refresher course, however, I found it worked well: it eschews the usual laborious ``puella est in cena'' type translation exercises in favour of actual Latin as she was spoke (``sententiae antiquae'') from the second chapter on, and while I can't imagine that being anything but frustrating to a half-interested ten-year-old, it gives you a sense of rapid progress as a revisitor.A thing that Wheelock's Latin undoubtedly does better than my secondary school textbooks did is place Latin in context relative to other languages: almost every vocabulary item has a list of English derived words, and occasionally there are tables showing the development of Latin wordforms in modern Romance languages as well (including Romanian, which people in Western Europe tend to forget even exists).
Great grammar with copious exercises. Very thorough education of the written Latin language. But keep in mind that a language can't be learned through grammar alone. I'm using it alongside "Lingua Latina Per Se Illustrata", Adler's "Practical Grammar of the Latin Language" and the "Orbis Sensualium Pictus" of John Amos Comenius. I would also recommend trying Evan der Millner's comprehensive audio courses on latinum.org.uk. It is important to read, write, listen to and speak the language. One is not fluent until fluent in all of these.I have the 7th edition of Wheelock's
I used to think that Wheelock advocates were just a little too content with the standby, traditional, status quo, intro to Latin text to be bothered to examine the virtues of other options.
Too many proponents of Latin today laud it for its benefits in boosting English vocabulary or the rigorous thinking its inflected nature demands.
After years of teaching children entry-level Latin with canned sentences about farmers and women and horses in unceasing, mind-numbing succession, translating my way through Wheelock is like waking up into an entirely new world.This book combines excellent pedagogy with excellent content.
I would recommend one of the older versions, though.
The older version is more compact and easier to get through, also cheaper.
You can probably safely skip the English to Latin exercises, unless you are really gung-ho; in which case, there is probably something wrong with you.
You'll definitely be able to skip the extensive passages at the end of the book, and move on to a more interesting Level II reader.
It will probably take you a year to get through the book if you have no prior Latin.
Excellent for college students, high school students of superior ability, or 18th century middle school prodigies. Probably also very good for independent learners and adults. Very cut and dried, like a grammar book with exercises and a few sententiae antiquae thrown in for good measure.Work diligently from chapter to chapter. Memorize the grammatical rules and vocabulary. Dutifully complete the exercises. If you do this and finish the book, you will have an excellent handle on Latin and be ready to read Vergil, Horace, Ovid, Caesar, Catullus, Livy, Martial, Sallust, Cicero, and lots of others! Labor omnia vincit.
A good Latin textbook, especially if you're going to teach it to yourself. Lots of examples and exercises. I would also recommend picking up 38 Latin Stories, the accompanying book of longer stories to translate.
I was at a concert of Renaissance music last week, and picked up the program to read through the translations. And glanced over to the left, where the original Latin text was printed. And realized that I could read it. I. Can. Read. Latin. Now. Awesome!
This is currently being the most immediate and engaging Latin book I've read. Shame there are some pretty hideous errors in this (4th) edition - in particular the editor seems to have dozed off completely during chapter three (notably declension tables mixed up!!!).
My hatred for this book is not because it is a particularly terrible book of its own accord. It is because it is awfully difficult way to be introduced to Latin and the name "Wheelock" still sends goosebumps down my spine.
Went through about 350 pages of this grammar book in about 2.5 weeks—crazy pace. Now I can converse with Latinos, I guess.
I mean I can't read or speak Latin but I recognize more Latin roots now and feel like I have a better immersion experience with Romance languages post-Latin study so I guess it's been helpful.
Latin is taught distinctly as a reading language, with the communication toward Roman and medieval texts and authors.
In the Roman mind (or in its helpful nurturing handmaids such as Cicero), there was a distinct realm of reality between factual ('indicative') versus not directly factual.
Its very language marks the different realms through the subjunctive mood.
English itself, has largely faded its subjunctives, hence facts, non-facts, news, fake news, all clear as mud ...I am grateful to have encountered Latin as a beginner through this helpful, rich and rather startlingly different mode of learning through scholars worked around Wheelock.
A detailed book very useful for self learner. The book provides sufficient exercises and sample classical texts.
Solid grammatical introduction to Latin, although the exercises do leave a lot to be desired.
Wheelocks latin has a special place in my heart.
first semester (15 chapters) completed
This is very easy to learn from.
I recommend reading this book but I don't recommend doing it in three months
A wonderful beginner Latin textbook, which utilizes sayings of ancient authors. Highly recommended.
I'd say that the textbook is TOO thorough about grammar points at times since it uses overly scholarly terminology for a learner -- concepts like "jussive subjunctive" and "future participle periphrastic." I'm a language teacher myself and would never overburden beginning learners with this degree of grammatical detail.I think Wheelock's Latin would be a great text for an introductory Latin course in a college since – in theory – students would later be reading and getting expert help for advanced Latin texts later in the curriculum.
I opted instead to start reading real Latin texts with side-by-side translations on the Tufts Perseus site -- I recommend doing this if you are far advanced in the textbook and are getting tired of slogging through each chapter like the book wants you to.
Definitely, if there's any chance of you having an outside person work through this as a tutor or teacher with you, do that; I'm no good at working with languages on my own and profited immensely from the teacher-led run through this material.I've also studied Latin through two other primer systems (one of which is the Oxford Introduction to Latin, which has hilarious illustrations).
The organizational system sort of breaks down at the end because they're trying to pack in all the bits that didn't fit anywhere else, but otherwise the chapters are very well balanced in terms of material offered.
