https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1166131.The_Recruit
It deeply befuddled me to see the low amount of readership it had, if we compare to the Alex Rider or even The Gallagher Girls series one, but oh well, we can’t make sense of every single thing.But now I see why or, at least, have a good theory.
Everything before that kept me relatively interested because it was building to something (and that is why I will keep on reading the series) but the undercover operation seriously lacked the suspense we feel when reading an Alex Rider or Gallagher Girls one.
The whole book spent time building up to these huge event that the main character would take part in.
But, although the scenario unique, the author could have done A LOT more to make it more dangerous, more suspenseful, more incognito.I found I couldn't like any of the characters, especially the main one.
However, when a professional spy is sent on a mission, I would think they would be above sucking face with any random idiot.
This one-dimensional character was just no relatable.However, I give this a two star because I did want to find out how it ended.
No one would believe it was an accident."You just shoved a girl's face into a protruding nail.
As an aspiring writer, I had a good laugh about how awful Robert Muchamore's writing is, and have learned many lessons from reading what I could bear of this book.Namely, abusive, angst-ridden twelve year old boys who brutalize women without remorse don't make good main characters.Also, James Choke?
It was ok. I was annoyed we are back to the Orphan thing. Like Harry Potter, Tom Swayer, Alex Rider, Annie, Magical Misfits, Young James Bond. Get over that fact and its a good book to start off a series, I will read more. Maybe not as good as the Alex Rider or the Jason Steed series, but it looks like they have about 10 books in the series.
When his little sister got sent to live with her father, Uncle Ron, James had to move to the Nebraska House.
But a while after James came to the Nebraska House, they sent him and Kyle to Cherub.
After James completed his 100 day training, he got sent on a mission with his swimming teacher, Amy to go into a place called Fort Harmony and find out about some terriorist related activities.
When they got back, James got his Navy Shirt and Kyle got his after.
Kyle was jeolous that James got his Navy Shirt before him.
By far.The setting of this book is alright; It is about a boy who is adopted into a community of child spys, where he undergoes training a goes on a mission.
The alright setting is the only reason I'm willing to acknowlege having read this (that and to warn the innocent).
When reading this book I'm sure the author was just writing down a daydream, then went back and added the occasional part where on of the main characters is hurt or upset.
I had to read the second book too.
I had pretty high hopes for this book because the kids at school, especially the year 7 and 8 students, LOVE this series.
The basic plot is that an eleven year old boy lives with his younger sister and morbidly obese mother, who runs a shoplifting ring.
It felt...like it was written by a 10 year old boy.
But it also felt like it was written by a 13 year old boy who's just discovering girls and dealing with body image issues?
Like, as a result of the swimming and running, James - who by this point has turned 12 - ends up with a fully sick sixpack.
[wrote in Portuguese] Opinião no The Mistery's Garden: Opinião | O Recruta, de Robert Muchamore Há já algum tempo que tinha a intenção de ler  O Recruta , de Robert Muchamore, autor da afamada série CHERUB. Esta coleção foi uma grande aposta da Porto Editora e recebeu críticas positivas tanto de jovens como de adultos. O maior elogio é comum a muitos dos leitores: tal como Harry Potter (embora só comparável a uma escala muito mais reduzida), conseguiu inserir o gosto pela leitura em milhares de
Para mim, há uma grande diferença entre YA's (Young Adult's) e juvenis, e este livro, para mim, é um juvenil e eles sempre me desagradaram, principalmente pelos diálogos que considero serem tentativas falhadas dos autores para se aproximarem dos leitores, que não são tão falhadas assim quando se tratam de jovens de 10-12 anos com pouca experiência literária, mas que, todavia, parecem patetas quando lidas por um rapaz de 15 anos e ditas por um rapaz de 15 anos.
Don't get me wrong- the story was good.
Actually, except for like two other minor characters, everyone was under the age of 12-13.
They're cursing, drinking, smoking, fighting, partying, and overall way too mature in adult situations to be taken seriously as little kids.2.
The actual mission didn't start till after about 3/4s the book was over.
James doesn't do any fighting other than a few squabbles with some other unexperienced 11 year olds.
It almost felt like the mission was background because the author was too focused on small character interactions.3.It wasn't gripping or scary...
I like stories with detail.
5/5 stars"This is tough, but CHERUB's are tougher"Funny, action-packed, heart-warming and cool, an amazing spy novel about a secret organization, consisting of kids.
Do not let this fool you, there is NOTHING funny about being a spy in there, especially considering the basic training.
Especially Ewart, he is literally the best.The adventure in this book got me trying to guess the ending but of course I was fooled because that's what happens when you try to guess the ending in a spy book.
When my friend reccomended this book to me, I thought it would be just another author trying to rip off Anthony Horowitz with a british-teenage-spy book.
This book is fresh.
It’s new.
It’s style is completely original.
Robert Muchamore writes with a style that makes you read till you notice the sun is coming up the next morning.
The intrigue that this author generates is through the roof.
How hasn’t this book gotten more attention?
This book is like the musical group Chiddy Bang.
Huge in England, about to get big in the U.S. Keep writing Mr. Muchamore!
Hard to put down this one! I wish James would grow up. I really like Lauren but she can be a bit annoying
2.75 stars.
James Choke is a typical 11-year old boy, playing video games and barely passing school because he can't be bothered.
When his criminal mother dies, he is placed in a children's home, and falls in with a bad crowd.
He is then recruited for a children's spy school, the basis for which is pretty thin, where he undergoes extensive training and a grueling test of endurance to finally get assigned on a mission to stop a terror plot.
I thought his friendships at CHERUB school were solid, especially his partner in the tests.
The Alex Rider series is much better.
James era um rapaz normal, mas depois de um acontecimento inesperado foi "contratado" por uma associação chamada CHERUB. Depois de passar cem dias de tortura num ginásio (que mais parecia uma base militar) conseguiu passar nos testes da Recruta. Depois de completar a sua primeira missão com muito sucesso recebeu uma t-shirt azul-escura (as t-shits representam os níveis em que eles estão).Um livro fantástico e cheio de aventura.
Cherub agents are kids ages 10-17 and are trained to be spies to infiltrate criminal organizations that have eluded the M15 for years. The reason? Adults never suspect that kids are spying on them.  James Choke is a twelve year old boy who tends to get in quite a bit of trouble. He lives with his mom and his sister Lauren. But James isn't an ordinary boy, he has a keen sense for math. He can solve complex math problems in a matter of seconds. James gets into a bit of trouble at school, includin
James Choke is a twelve year old boy who tends to get in quite a bit of trouble.
James gets into a bit of trouble at school, including smashing Samantha Jennings face and fighting back to a teacher.
He gets expelled from school and he doesn't want his mom to know.
Then one day, James goes to jail.
They would all just look at him and say, "Can't talk to orange shirts." So he gets sent to a gut called Mac and he explains that he is on Cherub grounds and that they chose him and all that.
Who wanted to go to Hogwarts or become a wizard after reading the Harry Potter series, or go to camp Half-Blood after reading the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series?
Well the The Recruit by Robert Muchamorewill leave you wanting to be a spy at CHERUB.
Your going to want to use all the technology they use, be friends with all the students at CHERUB and take part in all the adventures.
Most of the books in the 12 book series are over 350 pages and Robert Muchamore recently came out with a new series, CHERUB 2.0 which is about 10 years later.
I thought it was a genre I liked and had a good plot, so I started reading the book.Something I like in the story is the humor they put into it, such as when Mr Large set the kids their last test within the hundred days.
The test turned out to be a joke planned by Mr large which put James in a state.Something I learnt throughout the story was that being attentive could come in handy, this was because when James was in his Russian class, he had to pay attention because all that knowledge would come in handy for reading the instructions that were only in the language that they learnt.
I read this back in high-school. In fact, I read the first three books as the author was coming in to do an after school talk. So it's with a feeling of nostalgia that I sit down to re-read this almost ten years on. Wow, I'm old.
Cherub the recruit is an amazing book.
The beginning starts off with the main character James at school.
After it is all said and done James is running away from his school and will probably be expelled.
When James gets home his mum is dead in her sleep.
James is perfect for this except he can not swim, therefore he cant start basic training, which means he cant go on any missions.
Shortly after James is asked to go on a mission.
James goes to school gets a girlfriend and accomplishes the mission.
Overall this book was amazing and i liked it alot.
James has no idea to expect when he finds himself as a Cherub recruit, but he has no other options after his mother dies and no one else is there to take care of him.Muchamore’s writing gives great reality along with futuristic qualities to James’s life of difficulties and amazement.
He can relate to many other teens and at the same time give the idea that good things can happen later down the road.Why would James want to seek out his future as an agent for Cherub when life isn’t even worth it?
Well, i must sound like an old guy talking about something that was cool from last year but the book hasn't changed, its still as awesome as it had ever been.This book completes the "A book with a male main character" category on my bingo board.
But when i couldn't find a suitable space for The Recruit (this book) i discovered that The Hobbit had been written before 1980, (another category) i transferred it to that space and replaced it's recent category with The Recruit.My favourite quote - well, more than a quote really, "bit" then, was when Kerry outsmarted James to 'who was going to kill the snake' debate on their test mission, - "OK", James said.
And, right now, I still don't know if I should give this a 4 out of 5 stars or if I should give it a 5 out 5 stars...In the beginning, I was a little bit sceptical about this book and until the first 100 pages I wasn't really sure if I liked it or not.
and there were some moments that didn't catch my attention as much as I wanted it to.I like James though.
I think he's a good character and he cares a lot about the people surrounding him.
I found it very entertaining!Basically, I kind of loved this book!
One Amazon reviewer describes this book, the first in its series, as “fresh and grimy.” Somehow, that’s spot-on. James, newly orphaned and living in a home for young reprobates, is being watched. His particular talents and resourcefulness—even used unconstructively, peg him as the right material for CHERUB, a secret agency that trains children as spies for the British government. With tough urban teens who speak as crudely as you’d expect (in British street-speak), grueling boot-camp sequences, vandalism, violence and even some philosophical and moral self-questioning, there is much for teens (and many adults) to love. --Kate D.
This book is a great book for teenagers who love reading books with suspense, action, comedy etc. It has an extremely engaging plot and story line and you are able to really feel the characters emotions and really feel like you are a part of the whole story.
I thought this book was really enjoyable to read and I am going to carry on reading this series because I think it is the right books for me. I also really enjoyed this book and it got me so excited for the next book because I wanted to see what happens to James after his mum passed away.
I really liked this one! It's similar to Alex Rider, and even though I don't remember the other series very well, my rating says I like this one better, so I'm gonna trust it.
BEST BOOK EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I'm finished and the ending was entertaining but very strange. I think it would have been a good story if it had ending before the 3/4th mark.
Underaged spies, torturous training and first missions ;) It wasn't exactly what I was expecting but I liked it and I pretty much read most of the book in one night :) Are 12-year-old kids really that mature? Or makes the tough past and the spy training them more mature? Well, whatever the case, the characters act almost like 20-year-olds :D
