https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/498123.Galactic_Pot_Healer
Divorced, childless, unemployed and now that he's a wanted man by the police, Joe figures he has little to lose and accepts Glimmung's proposition, thus setting out on what Joseph Campbell termed “The Hero’s Journey.” Galactic Pot-Healer strikes me as a cross between a sacred Gnostic text from Nag Hammadi and a book written by Philip K.
Dick siting at his typewriter, tingling with excitement (even without drugs or many cups of black coffee) as he put the finishing touches on Galactic Pot-Healer.“A man is an angel that has become deranged, Joe Fernwright thought.
One of the most endearing themes of Phil’s work is his propensity to cast as protagonist an ordinary guy or gal.
Small appliance repairman seems to be the occupation of modal frequency, but Galactic Pot Healer joins The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch as a novel that features a ceramicist as the hero.
In a book that may have paid homage to H.P. Lovecraft and may in turn have influenced China Miéville, Douglas Adams and Monty Python; Galactic Pot Healer tells the off beat tale of a depressed loner who is hired by a Cthulu like alien god to be a part of his restoration project.
A fan will notice many PKD standard themes, Biblical, theological and classic references.
Dick, Galactic Pot-HealerThe idea of this book at first reminded me of the concept of Kintsukuroi (金繕い or golden repair).
I have since been over-exposed to photos of beautifully broken vases and bowls repaired and posted on Pinterest and Facebook.
So, insert transcendent metaphor here about broken things being healed, etc.So, I started this book with that idea kinda sitting on the shelf behind me.
But Dick isn't going to go at any idea directly.
He is going to throw in weird gods, funky totalitarian states, unsatisfied relationships, reluctant heroes, aborted rescues, weird creatures.This isn't Dick's best novel, but there is something redeeming about it.
PKD books are never filled with sunshine and bunnies, but this one has one of the most depressing beginnings of any I've read so far.
And when he undercuts his heavy ponderings and symbolism with humor or pop trash, he doesn't do it in an arch or coy, post-modern way, he seems to be insisting, "No, the profound and the trash, they really are deeply intertwined for anyone who is really looking."

3'5/5Algo irregular, no es de mis Dick favoritos, pero siempre es una delicia leer a este autor. La edición de Cátedra, traducida y prologada por Julián Díez, es inmejorable.
Dick en estado puro. Un cacao tan grande que por momentos resulta incomprensible. Aun así, es asombroso.
Review shortly
There seems to be a personal obsession with death, particularly suicide, embodied in many of his characters.-He approached failure in a peculiar way - it seemed something of an expectation for him, and he makes it in to an entertaining spectacle in so many novels.
I loved this novel, perhaps because of how strange it is, and find it really endearing that Fernwright, after so much effort, manages to find his way out of fulfillment and happiness in to loneliness and failure.
It makes me curious to know how much Dick identified with Fernwright.
Did Dick feel the same?
Emulate him, who in his Undertaking fought and destroyed the Book of the Kalends and thus the tyrannic rule of fate itself.
Sometimes I think PKD's vision of each novel unfolded as he banged away at the typewriter for 36 hours straight, which is why so many loose ends simply drift off rather than get tied up.
This book is another example of Dick's pulp philosophy, where lots of interesting ideas get touched upon or hinted at, but then never gel into anything really compelling.
Along the way we encounter The Game (think Babelfish reverse translation), the Book of Kalends (free will vs.
As with all of the PKD books that I have read, there always seems to be underlying messages.
The protagonist is Joe Fernwright and he is a pot healer that lives in a time on earth when ceramics are no longer used and is replaced by plastic.
He passes his time by playing a meaningless word game with his co-workers in a struggling economy and that is something I can relate to.The meaning of life is one of the underlying messages that stood out to me the most.
Joe is contacted by Glimmung a flawed but omniscient deity; which that in itself brings up a lot of questions.
One of my favorite of Dick's novels. At times it's funny as hell, an absolute riot. But it's also a mind bender, exploring issues of theology, such as various conceptions of the deity (the Glimmung is a deity I could warm up to, lol), and intertwined issues of philosophy, such as the concepts of fate and determinism and free will. And what a complement of bizarre alien life forms. Reminds me at times of Douglas Adams and the Hitchhiker's Guide (although I suppose it's really the other way around, Adams was influenced by Dick works like this one). Highly recommended.
I love P.K. Dick, but this book was just absolutely ridiculous. Maybe I read it wrong, or read it half asleep or something, but it made not one lick of sense to me
Joe's adventures of Sirius 5, and his budding relationship with the gray-skinned sweetie from Proxima, Mali Yojez, make up the bulk of this somewhat atypical novel from P.K. Dick.In truth, I'm having a bit of trouble writing about this novel, even more so than I had with Dick's largely unfathomable "Lies, Inc." "Galactic Pot-Healer" is simply written and tells a simple story, and yet it is difficult to tell whether its author is trying to make subtle statements or if everything is on the surface.
While not one of Dick's better known books (probably for good reason), Galactic Pot-Healer still has some interesting elements that, in combination with its relatively short length, make it worth reading.
I think that’s a story that relates well to what a lot of people feel in modern society, pot-healing or not.
Dick novel, Galactic Pot-Healer is full of interesting ideas, which range from mildly weird to slightly uncomfortable.
Or, there’s the story of how the god of the cathedral fell in the first place: he created a second being to feel sexual desire for, because he was lonely.
I would categorize this book as 'sci-fi' and theological fiction.
For vastly better theological fiction, I would recommend VALIS by PKD.
But the larger premise(gathering people together on a planet to help a 'supreme being' raise up a castle from the sea) lacks any dilemma that I could find.
There were two main reasons that I didn't see much dilemma: it was never clear to me how the people were really any help to the 'supreme being' AND I never really understood the significance of raising up the castle.
Or perhaps PKD was just ready to end the book.
The first is the meaning of work in anchoring one’s life: “The energy, the capacity to fiddle away a lifetime without dignified work, and, in its place, the performance of the trivial, even the voluntarily trivial”, such as playing games, does little to make us alive.
Not working is the hardest work of all.”The second theme is about linguistics.
It started in Joe and his friends’ “The Game”, a prescient joke on present-day’s internet translator.
There may be a deeper story of theological import, but I will leave it at the very satisfactory level of Joe the Pot-healer becoming the Pot-maker.
She'd been my friend for the better part of 35 years before passing away 2 years ago at the age of 50.In retrospect, Dick seems to have looked into a fairly accurate crystal ball.
In a "throw-away" society, nobody appreciates good craftsmanship anymore.
Joe Fenwright, an itinerant war veteran, is one such craftsman who is able to restore ceramic pottery to near-mint condition...
but since plastic is cheaper, who cares?It's a philosophical look at the treatment of our Veterans as well as a biting indictment of society.
The fact that it was written 42 years ago doesn't lessen its impact.
What was Dick getting at with this novel? He's throws a lot at it, Faustian philosphy, flawed deities, collective consciousness, art as salvation, but not sure if any of it sticks. It's got this weird comic pulpy tone, and it's batshit crazy, not at all surprised that it was written during what Dick describes as a psychotic breakdown. Good fun though!
Basically a giant shape shifting, telepathic blob called Glimmung wants to raise a cathedral from under the sea on Plowman's Planet. And he asks Joe Fernwright who is a pot-healer to help him. This isn't PKD's best book, but it's nowhere near his worst either, and it's pretty short too.
I convinced Scifi bookclub to read this because it is about a futuristic ceramics conservator (pot-healer, rather), and I wanted to see what that would look like.
Overall I don't think Scifi bookclub was too thrilled with it - it doesn't have as much substance to it as some of Dick's other books, I guess (I've only read two, this and Ubik, and the share the same curious portrayal or use of 'things', like how here the god-like entity hiring Joe to heal pots takes the form of a phonograph and other inanimate objects to communicate.
It's about ceramics, not leafy plants, but really it's about purpose, entropy and failure, as well as the benefits of banding together, much like the broken pots gloomy, passive Joe Fernwright mends. It's a modest 144 pages, in my edition, but it's got a lot of ideas. It's also very funny, like the robot who won't answer any question that doesn't begin with its name, Willis, until finally saying "to hell with it" and answering anyway.
7 'Rises' should be italicized78 sherd - shard99 'my tools' has two spaces between the wordsNeat to see the Lies Inc ideas of Thingisms pop up for a paragraph, along with "The Book" which is updated everyday with what's about to happen in the near futureGlimmulg made for an interesting antagonist/protagonist. In a way his alien nature made his motives opaque enough to give controversy to build plot over the conflict of raising HeldscallaGreat Hardovax commercial, "Gosh, everyone's noticed." thrown out there without a blink
Que mal lo tuvo que pasar el traductor del libro O_o
6/10
Wooow! En un principio al llegar a el "Fin" tuve la sensación de que me falto algo, pero al recapitular y rememorar todo lo ocurrido empezó a cobrar un sentido diferente, una profundidad inmensa, que sin lugar a dudas amerita una leída más.
The message turns out to be from an all powerful entity known as the Glimmung who is launching a project to raise a sunken cathedral from the ocean bed.Being a Dick novel, things are not as straightforward as this synopsis would imply.Fernwright is one of a large number of humans and alien experts in various fields who have been promised a fortune in payment to undertake work on the project.
Although it began on a very depressing tone that didn't entirely lift during the story (which I'm told is par for the course for P.K. Dick), I nonetheless enjoyed it.
I also have a feeling that at least one writer for Futurama read this book also, based on the way the Glummung physically works with others.
I laughed aloud when I got to that part.I had to think about the end of the book for a little while (which I'm told is also par for the course for PKD) but in the end I liked it.
I've read all of PKD's books and I like various books for various reasons -- my favorite is Ubik.
Some of the novels hold together well, some don't.
For some reason, I love this book.
Maybe I believe God is art; maybe I believe God is broken, I'm not sure, but at a dark moment in my life this book got on a transatlantic flight with me and helped me with my own healing.
So, there's no chance for an objective critique -- just the point that sometimes PKD is more than just a sci-fi writer.
It is the ultimate fate of everything and everything resists it" - Willis I really enjoyed this book and while it isn't as tight as some of his other novels it still has plenty for even an average Philip K Dick fan to like!
Joe Fernwright and The Glimmung were both very interesting characters and Plowman's Planet was especially intriguing.
The portrayal of Earth's society justified Joe's melancholic attitude throughout the novel (who would enjoy living in a world where police will threaten you for walking too slow to work) and I found him to be quite a relatable character!
