https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203288.The_Ship_Who_Sang
Yet I was mourning her passing like she was a dear friend.Turns out, I've spent a lot more time with Anne McCaffrey than I would have guessed.
There is the Crystal Singer series, and the PTB, I never got into Acorna, of course Pern, the Freedom series, The Rowan (which I recently reread) and its sequels, the Pirate books (including Sassinak - not only a personal favorite but introduced me to Elizabeth Moon for which I am grateful).
If you ask me for my top ten favorite science fiction books I would be able to come up with a reputable list off the top of my head.
Rather I felt faintly nauseated by the "brawn fixation", by the concept of someone reaching in and touching her face and body - which, let's be clear here, is essentially a malformed baby attached to a lot of wires.
And then we hear Helva lamenting about the fact that she can't have sex (because of her body) and wondering what it might have been like to be able.
Oh no, it'd be so that  he could enjoy using her body.As I've started to dip back into a lot of the fantasy I read when I was younger, I've noticed how disturbing a lot of the attitudes towards women/love/sex are in them.
So it definitely felt like a complete novel.I think what I was most surprised about was how much this was a novel about love, and loss, and human growth and relationships, since the premise and the missions are so science-based.
Ms. McCaffrey definitely has a way with puns and wordplay.I am almost tempted to give this book 5 stars, but I did feel that it dragged a bit in a few places, and again some stories were better than others.
In a future time, society has found a niche for children born with severe handicaps: They are encased in metal shells, attached to all sorts of electronics, and used to run factories, cities, and star ships.The heroine of this book, Helva, is such a child, who has been built into a star ship.
The "brain ships" of the book are paired with an ordinary human pilot.
Helva and her first pilot fall in love, a romance in all but the sexual sense.
The author takes a speculative scientific premise: what if handicapped people could be made productive by wiring them into a spaceship like this?
I took my father's death pretty hard and this book does deal with the questions that get raised during that grief.
Suppose you have specific regrets connected with your grief, does that give you license to grieve forever in your life?
Having grieved, is it all right to withdraw from relationships because they might cause you more grief in the future?Added to which, there is a theme of what rights and abilities do the disabled have?
Gently hand this to friends who are having trouble moving on in life after a death floors them.
As with it seems all Anne McCaffrey's books I was hooked and found it very difficult to put down - made worse by the fact that it's quite easy to hold, being so small, at the dinner table...The Ship Who Sang is about Helva who's body is disfigured and fairly unusable from birth, however her mind being unaffected she is raised to be a shell-person and become a brain ship.
I really love the ideas of brain ships, the extra things they are capable of despite lacking the mobility of their human body, but also the limitations they have and the way different people react to them, and in fact the way she reacts to situations.
I think I read this before I read her Pern series, at least about the same time in the early 1970's. I was really impressed by her take on a cyborg. It was different than anything I'd read before. She looked at it with a lot of humanity. A perennial favorite of mine.
It's evident from the copyright information that the stories were essentially serialized, and only after the publication of Dramatic Mission were they collected into this book.Though Helva's development is thoroughly chronicled (up to about age 16) in the first story, too many readers don't seem to have read it in detail.
The evidence indicates that drug use is rarer in the galactic federation than in our own societies (due largely to restrictive policing by the quasi-military 'Service'), but McCaffrey still shudders away from the idea that people might become addicted to drugs, and demonizes the addicts.I should point out that the Corviki understanding of Romeo And Juliet is perhaps not quite so similar to that of creatures of other cultures as the characters (and the author) seem to think.
The use of medicines to cure the various ailments in different star systems seems to reflect the mood of the times the book was written in.
I was reading The Emperor of All Maladies concurrently with this - it documents the optimistic mood on medicine in the 60's that having defeated all comers with immunizing drugs, cancer was the only disease, and it too would soon succumb to chemotheraputic treatments.
(There was also a similarity with Dan Simmons Olympos in the use of Shakespeare as a muse, although on a far smaller scale in this book.)The book feels a little dated in its pace and the (pre-?) feminist subtext, but the stories retain enough freshness to be enjoyable.
I just love these old-time optimistic science fiction books!
This is both happy and sad and it is so well written....
3.5 Stars.I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed this book!
I really liked that it was a collection of short stories.
It made it somehow easier for me to read, and though each short probably could have been fleshed out to be their own novel or novella, I still felt satisfied at the end of each one.This book could easily be the subject of a college lit course (one that I would have actually wanted to take!).
From the biblical themes to discussions of morality, and even the types of romance explored...this book gives a lot to dissect and talk about!I've never read an Anne McCaffrey book before, and I'm glad this was the first one.
It's probably just personal, but I did not find Niall's behavior at all loving or romantic, just obsessive, manic and creepy.I'm definitely delving way too deeply into the psychology of the writer here, but it's hard to read these books without thinking that the author had a problem with sexual love.
I'll be reading the rest of the afore-mentioned stack because they're not unreadable books; it just bothers me that the heroines of McCaffrey's books so far never seem to be happy without the approval of a guy, and that this is not presented as a tragedy but as a somehow "natural" order of things.
This was the first Anne McCaffrey book I read, and I fell in love with it.I love singing, which attracted me to the title, and I was entranced by the idea that Helva had been born with severe physical disabilities but was mentally bright, so her brain was wired up to control spaceship parts rather than limbs, and to access computer data storage as well as what is in her brain.
I then bought another copy when I moved to the UK and had to leave my books behind.I love the characters - they are so distinct, although if you've read any of Ann McCaffrey's other books you may recognise some of the personalities - who cares, they work well and spark off each other.
The first Anne Mccaffrey book I read was this one, "The Ship Who Sang." Anne's writing (all through the books I have read from Dragonriders, Petaybee and Crystal Singer) has always struck me as optimistic, romantic, and not at all concerned about physics.
If you view Anne's writing as Science Fantasy or Space Opera, and accept that the genre by necessity requires the protagonists to be pseudo super-heros or borderline Mary-Sues, you'll love Anne's writing.I loved the book, as much for the inspiration to get back into reading fiction (and science fiction in particular) as for the easy-to-read love story that this book really is.
In the book it is said it is sometimes used for frivolous reasons not just "sensible" ones like ensuring the birth of a son to carry on the family name or business.
An odd blind spot given that in the book there doesn't seem to be any gender segregation in the workplace.
Jobs appear to be done as often by a female as a male.As I said above, these days I'd give this 2 stars as it is more a collection of short stories rather than an in-depth novel.
Helva has been wrapped in a titanium 'shell' since birth, a shell that protects and nurtures her, as her own body is broken and useless.
Inserted into a spaceship that becomes her body, she travels the stars with her partnered 'brawn', working for the Central Worlds government as a medical ship, trying to pay off the debt she incurred for her upbringing and spaceship body.
A major theme in the book is one of loss as Helva mourns for her first brawn, finds ways of coping and eventually gains contentment.
At first I was a little disappointed because I felt I needed more evidence of the four years or so that Helva spent with her love to deserve such a grieving process.
However, I found that I eventually, felt there was no need.
The relationships throughout the novel are quite compelling and speak to the many types of relationships I see in my life.
The novel seems to be an expansion of the idea that everyone you know, was put into your life for a reason.
Overall, beautiful language, but I think it is the relationships and Helva's funny, intelligent and witty character that made up the spine of this novel.
It was alright. I have a memory of reading somewhere that Anne McCaffrey couldn't read the story without crying, but I didn't feel much emotion from it myself. The whole middle part about actors and taking on an alien "envelope" body so that they could perform Shakespeare...what? It's just too weird for no real reason. The whole book reads as sexist as basically every woman exists for this or that man and if they don't...isn't that AWFUL? Don't they want a COMPANION?
I was worried that if I didn't like it I'd be put off her whole award-winning back catalog, but her writing is astoundingly accessible when you consider she's often held up with other pillars of the genre like Bradbury and Heinlein.The book flowed like a series of short stories connected by the growth and development of the main protagonist, and offered a slightly different view of the Utopian future among the stars (a topic quite prevalent in the work of her contemporaries) specifically a future including those people considered physically disabled or disfigured.
Now that she's actually assumed a ship to pilot, she must deal with the matter of finding a human partner and surviving the harsh galaxy.Quite simply, this book is typical of McCaffery: Brilliant concept, horrible execution.
I've actually put a great deal of thought into the idea of connection paralyzed babies to computers to enable them to experience life.
Unfortunately, McCaffery comes at this problem without realizing how drastically computers would advance.
I chuckled internally every time the book mentioned tapes.However, as I mentioned before, although the concept was good, the rest was the typical rubbish of Anne McCaffery.
The Ship Who Sang was published in 1969, originally as short stories / novelettes, and then revised into a novel.
The short story feel definitely affected the novel's structure, as there wasn't a bigger overarching plot, but shorter adventures.
The character development was continuous, but this definitely felt more like a collection of stories.
I didn't connect super much with the characters, mostly because the writing style was a little detached at times - but I did like Helva.
This book definitely has its issues, but it was interesting to read - I haven't read a lot of older SF.(view spoiler)[I didn't like the whole obsession/love thing with Parollan.
"'My energy group is excited to experience the total pressure dominances of these envelopes,' the Manager replied, emanating the lavender-purples Helga equated with pleasure in Corviki."Aliens are created a bit lazily sometimes - was it James Blish who said you might paint it blue and call it a Smeerp, but if it looks like a rabbit and acts like a rabbit, then it is a rabbit and not an alien at all?You don't have to look far for different concepts.
It isn't a tribe and it isn't a family, but anyway, it's a good example of an alien concept.
Even my father was able to appreciate the ingenuity of the concept behind this series.
I bet you can guess how the romance plays out, but it's a bit fun because if you're like me and enjoy all the tension that happens before romances are a done deal, well, these characters have more than the usual barriers to overcome.
The problem with this is that once it's been done once the formula becomes very evident, but if you know anything about Anne McCaffrey you can guess that she milks the concept so dry that if you read them all you never want to hear about another telepathic ship-person again.
I am currently reading Anne McCaffrey books. This is one of the first award winning short stories. Helva is a ship's brain she was born with a terribly deformed body and the parents were given the option of having her trained as a spaceship brain rather than die in a few weeks. In the course of her training she interacted with a group of concerned citizens and was told she had a singing voice. A touching look at living an alternative life. Great short read.
I kinda sorta want to give it two stars because there was one story I liked but I... just... fucking can't. The rest of it was either boring or just straight up wrong, and the last story legit made me tell my dark room at 2am that 'ewwwww ew no that's gross'. Worst romance I've read in months plus the characterization was ALL OVER THE PLACE. In the end I did not enjoy like 95% of this, so... yeah but no.
So far this is amazing story of self realization, more than self discovery in my mind. Helva is not alien in her altered state, but so entirely what defines us as human beings, a few extra abilities included of course. I'm not really on for exploring the human condition, but this is a collection of gut wrenching sentiments. I'm thoroughly enjoying myself with this book.
After the first Pern story I got pretty sick of Anne McCaffrey, but this book, written before the dragon stuff and recommended by a girl who lived across the hall from me in Hastings Hall at UTS, was actually rather moving. I guess, if the Kirkus review is to be credited, I must be an adolescent girl.
This was a really good book. I don't know that it is quite what I expected when I picked it up. The concept was well thought out, and there were definitely multiple dimensions. There were two points where she kind of lost me but I think that might have been on purpose. Excited to discuss this book with the group.
A little too much science in my science fiction and my brain skims and my interest wanes. This was almost more a series of disconnected short stories in the life of our protagonist rather than a cohesive novel. Good stories, though. And I did find the mills and boon type crisis ending quite amusing!
