https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/568454.D_Gray_man_Vol_1
The plot? Interesting.The drawings? Pretty good. The characters? Great! The story is dark, mysterious and gothic may I add. I have watched some of the anime though never quite from the beginning till the end, more like random episodes and I liked it so i decided to pick the manga. I really fancy it so far. I hope it doesn't take a downfall.
This was pretty good. I definitely enjoyed "D.Gray-man" waaay more than I thought I would.
Confession: I have a lot of problems with manga as a medium.
It's actually surprising to me when I genuinely get into a manga series, because there are so many obstacles: I find the panels often confusing; it takes me several minutes to get used to reading right to left; I'm continually frustrated by the melodrama which plagues the beginning of most series and the way things are repeated over and over and over and over and over.
it feels to me a lot like Claymore.
I'll fully review this later but damn, it was good.
Well, actually it is.ARGH WHAT DO I HAVE TO DO TO CONVINCE YOU TO READ D GRAY MAN!I can't seem to say anything that doesn't come out sounding overtly critical of it!Okay, you know what, let me tell you my reasons for sticking with D Gray Man all this time, maybe that will help?The team dynamic Hoshino uses!It's flawless!
He was born with a deformed arm, with a strange green cross embedded in it: he later finds out that this is his 'Innocence,' an elusive substance that Exorcists (those chosen by God to slay Akuma) wield as their main weapon.
He learns of the race to collect all of the Innocence before the Earl; unless the Exorcists win, he will surely dominate the entire world.D.Gray-Man has gotten a lot of flack for having a bit of a coordination problem when it comes to fight scenes (it's hard to tell what the heck is going on sometimes), but the art is beautiful and the characters enchanting.
While D.Gray-Man isn't that well known, it deserves to be.
Allen Walker is a fifteen year old boy, whose left arm can transform into a weapon.
Akuma are machine like monsters that were created by Millennium Earl, the bad guy.
Millennium Earl wants to use the Akuma to destroy mankind.
Cross tells Allen to become an Exorcist.
An exorcist is a person who can kill Akuma.
Walker's left eye can detect disguised Akuma.
His left arm and left eye are his weapons when fighting an Akuma....................................................................Characters - 5/5 - Excellent!
Some have uniforms, while others have their own style.Overall - 4.8/5 - AMAZING!
It's really addicting!Overall Grade: A 95%
Impossibile poi non amare l' affascinante famiglia Noah tanto quanto, se non più, dei componenti dell'Ordine Oscuro (lo ammetto, sono leggermente di parte ahah)Per quanto riguarda la componente grafica, la Hoshino predilige una preponderanza del colore bianco nelle tavole, come a voler sottolineare il contrasto tra la luce e l'oscurità che aleggia costantemente su ogni cosa e nonostante il tratto qui sia ancora acerbo, avrà modo di maturare più volte ed esprimere il suo potenziale in seguito.
http://fiebrelectora.blogspot.com.es/...
3.5/5
Well, the story follows Allen Walker, an Exorcist - one of those chosen by a divine substance called Innocence to fight against the sinister Millennium Earl, who steals human souls to make demons known as Akuma.
I love that it’s set in an alternative nineteenth century in which sinister cyberpunk-esque demons, Akuma, are an accepted fact of life.
Allen can now see the soul of any human trapped within an Akuma, as well as bearing a cross embedded in his hand that gives him the power to vanquish the demons.
I decided to re-read this one, I didn’t really want to start a big book right before my vacation, and also all the books I really wanted to read are now boxed up and ready for my vacation (yes, I am writing this review before my vacation starts).In this one we first meet with Allen, we find out about his history, about why he looks the way he does (though I am sure there is more backstory in the future, as there are still enough questions left), we also see him travel around to get to the Black Order, while his master is once again on the run (which always makes me laugh, though I also feel sorry for Allen that he is stuck to such an eccentric master).I loved seeing Allen travel, and also do some exorcism stuff.
~3.5 Stars~I found this in a used/new bookstore in Bangor, Maine, and I decided, well - I watched the first episode of the anime forever ago and I remember it wasn't too bad, so...
Turned out it was a good idea, because I ended up running out of books on the way back to ND, and also because...
it wasn't bad!As far as I can tell, this is a fairly popular manga series.
Either way, I can pretty much see why.
I'll probably pick up later volumes in this series and I'll probably watch the anime at some point, but it's not high priority right now.
I took some time to get used to its artwork. The magic system looks familiar actually, having a weapon planted on the main character, Allen's body, and he was cursed. Another very typical shounen manga, but I'm intrigued with its execution, heard great things about it and the series is continued by the mangaka after a few years, that's rare. This gave me some fullmetal alchemist vibe tbh, but I don't mind if the artwork and plot get better after this. Hope to read more of this soon! 3 stars!
Simply not for me. The story, the characters, the setting, the art... None of it enough to get me even vaguely interested. It's not terrible (hence two stars instead of one) but neither was it good enough to get me to do more than reluctantly drag myself through the first volume.
Starting this manga. I've heard amazing things about this from my friends. It's really interesting so far.
3 starsI liked this a little better than the last time I read it, in 2006. I still found the 1st volume distastefully gross. The info dumping was also annoying, which I don't remember noticing the last time. And finally, the action scenes are really hard for me to follow, and I'm not sure why. Maybe because I find Allen's weaponized hand so silly and weird looking.
I didn't enjoy it as much as I thought I would. Art was good but I'm not really into the plot nor the atmosphere. We didn't see much of the characters in the first volume so I don't have an opinion on this aspect. Won't be continuing it for now.
Ambivalent about continuing with D. Gray-Man. Interesting intro to a new-to-me shonen manga. I am just not sure that it is my cup of tea.Not too surprising given that my all-time favorite manga is Fruits Basket!
Hmmm... I have this feeling that this is going to get really good. I like it!!!
The heroes have to find Innocence, powers that protect the world, and battle the Evil Earl and his minions.Such formula is more than familiar for a shounen series, but the interesting twist is that this happens in a Gothic world.
Typical to its genre, the characters behave in predictable shounen manner and the battles are full of power-ups, where they didn’t really need them to progress the story.
Plus, the good guys typically gain extra power right when they want it, so it lost its suspense quite soon.There is no conclusion and the manga is pretty much abandoned by its maker, a sign of how even she got bored of its cheesy development.
It was really good! I learned that when we judge something, we have to think about it from various aspect. We face to situation which we recognize someone as a bad person because of their bad behavior but sometimes they have some reasons why they took bad behavior. This story has a lot of sad scene that somebody’s important parson is killed but it was fun.
Maybe I need to give demon/exorcist themed manga a break for a while.
Generally, I don't have an issue with manga having similarities because many of them cover the same themes.
Unfortunately, all I could do was think of all the other manga and it made me want to re-read those instead of continuing on with this series.Lately, I haven't been having much luck when I pick up a first volume to a series I am curious to read.
The first volume fails to capture my interest enough to make me want to continue the series.
The art was interesting, it was very cartoonish in places, but then became very detailed and lovely in others.
The concept of this series is fairly gruesome to me, with the akuma slaughtering and wearing the skin of the loved one that brought them back.
It really brought out an extra dimension of depth and creepiness to his cartoonish character.
It was also curious how everything about him was cartoonish, except his eyes, which were very realistic and detailed by comparison – probably a graphic representation of his deceitful nature.
One of my most favorite manga. There was a time when this manga on hiatus. But I keep on waiting. LOL. Talk about loyalty. Mann... It's such a long wait you know. Nevertheless I am glad the mangaka come back. I mean it would be such a waste to abandon this manga that could rival One Punch Man, Bleach, etc, only if the series constantly updated.
I've put off trying this series for a while, and finally got the first volume off Manga Takeout because it's so popular - I needed to familiarize myself with it so I could get some merch for resale!That being said, it's very good.
This first volume is a little weird and is clearly just introductory, as any first volume is in a series with a lot of complex plotline and backstory.
The villianous Millennium Earl, who is totally NOT what you would expect, exploits people who are suffering to create akuma from the dead, and plans to take over (destroy?) the world.
He's got excellent backstory too.
At three volumes in, I am having a hard time getting into this story, but that doesn't mean much with my history of series (it took five or six volumes for me to get into Pandora Hearts and now it ranks among my top three favorite series).
I'm not sure I have a handle on the story at all, but again, I'm good at rolling with things, so maybe in a few more volumes I'll have a better grasp on what is really going on with our characters, and our hero Allen Walker in particular.
Not a bad beginning.
Allen Walker is an exorcist, possessed of the ability to destroy Akuma, evil spirits that possess and destroy people.
There's a bit more to it than that, as Allen finds out.
An organization of exorcists have dedicated their lives to preserving and recovering fragments of a substance called "innocence", which the Akuma are attempting to destroy.
It follows familiar shonen lines with Allen having exceptional ability and having rivals among his fellow exorcists.
I'm sure there will be much camaraderie and increasing abilities as the series progresses.
The main bad guy, the Millennium Earl, is great fun.
This is a decent beginning.
One of those shounen you just know you are going to read more than one volume. It starts already with some action, when two cops enter a church who is supposed to be haunted. The younger cop meets Allen Walker, a boy exorcist. Like most shounen Ive read so far, he is likeable, and only 15-years-old. Most of the first volume is about him and the Count. Only in the last couple of chapters we are introduced to the rest of the exorcist. The art is nice and the bad guy is kind of creepy but also funn
One of those shounen you just know you are going to read more than one volume.
It starts already with some action, when two cops enter a church who is supposed to be haunted.
The younger cop meets Allen Walker, a boy exorcist.
Like most shounen I´ve read so far, he is likeable, and only 15-years-old.
Most of the first volume is about him and the Count.
Only in the last couple of chapters we are introduced to the rest of the exorcist.
I especially like that, being one of these stories with a lot of characters, in the first volume that is gradual.I´ll probably buy the second volume this afternoon...
Good story;religiously offending.Don't get me wrong. I'm fine with souls and spirits and Greek gods...Heck, Soul Eater and Percy Jackson are two of my favs...But this was taking it a bit too far.That aside, it was a pretty solid story. It's about a fifteen year old boy named Allec, an exorcist. He has the ability to defeat Akumas (part spirit, part machine demonic thingies) with his left cursed hand. He can also see through a persons soul, allowing him to detect Akumas anywhere. Quite enjoyable, though the tone is darker than most Shounen titles.
