https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143555.Tiger_Eyes
This is the story of fifteen year old Davey, who has lived her entire life in Atlantic City with her parents and little brother.
Judy Blume packs a lot into this novel.
She also touches on family dynamics, depression, friendship, alcoholism, peer pressure, and of course a little bit of teen lurve.
And isn't that the most important lesson in any YA novel?People who haven’t read Judy Blume, or perhaps are afraid to revisit old favorites of hers (and discover they may not have stood the test of time) should give this one a try.
1st time reading: 4 stars. 2nd time reading: rating to come On hold @ pg 114. I spilled my ice cream shake on this and this is boring me. I'll continue this some other time. ---This is a reread because I was organizing my bookshelf and came across my old copy of this AND I READ THE WORD WOLF AND I JUST HAD TO REREAD IT OKAY? This was also my first Judy Blume book which I remember loving.
Ms. Blume did a good job expressing these emotions without making it sound overly dramatic, which could be easily done since Davie is 15-16 years old.There was a bit of a sad and random moment that I felt was unnecessary as it didn't really add anything to the plot.
Still it was just at that moment and it didn't really change the friendship or how Jane thinks.
Quiet, no pressure, and a good personality make me want to be his friend like Davie was.
Plus he’s Mexican so that would have proven Jane and others like her right, and I personally couldn’t stand to see that happen.
At the tender age of ten, I purchased this gem and proceeded to read it, perhaps five or six dozen times.
Sure, I have a to-read list longer than I am tall, but there was no way that book was going back on the shelf until I read it one more time.
And, even if it is still all that, does it stand the test of time?
So much has changed in thirty years, can I recommend this book to Middle Grade and Young Adult readers today?Yes and absolutely!
It was enraging at times to read about her uncle Walter, who I think I was supposed to feel sympathetic toward by the end-- no thank you.
I wanted to read what felt right, which is a bit different, so even though this book was effective and quietly powerful, it didn't satisfy me fully as a reader.(view spoiler)[Basically, I was frustrated by the fact that Davey never told her mom that Walter had hit her and said horrible things about her dead father.
I ship Wolf and Davey so hard!
The book takes place in New Jersey, where the main character fifteen year old Davey Wexler's father is murdered in Atlantic City, in a store that he works in.
After her father is murdered Davey deals with the death of her father and the death of ehr family.
Davey's mother starts becoming an alcoholic to deal with her husband's passing, and Davey and her family is forced to move to New Mexico inorder to coap with the ordeal.
Davey's mother becomes an alcoholic, while Davey and her younger brother deal with the loss of their father, their home, and in someways their mother.
Ms. Blume did a good job expressing these emotions without making it sound overly dramatic, which could be easily done since Davie is 15-16 years old.There was a bit of a sad and random moment that I felt was unnecessary as it didn't really add anything to the plot.
Still it was just at that moment and it didn't really change the friendship or how Jane thinks.
I love Wolf aka Martin Ortiz as he seems like a good person to be around.
Quiet, no pressure, and a good personality make me want to be his friend like Davie was.
I'm sure I read this as a kid, but I don't remember it at all. Maybe my friends older sister never had Tiger Eyes?Judy Blume just gets me. I myself have just suffered a loss and I knew i needed something to bring me a bit of light. This book was absolutely everything I needed right now. At the end I cried, put it down and I felt a bit better. Thank you for the therapy Judy xx
“Each of us must confront our own fears, must come face to face with them. How we handle our fears will determine where we go with the rest of our lives. To experience adventure or to be limited by the fear of it.” I liked the last half more than the first, but, overall, it was an engaging story about both coming of age and overcoming grief. It was very realistic the way it was handled, though I did find her family infuriating at times: her mother completely vacated and left her kids to be rais
“Each of us must confront our own fears, must come face to face with them.
How we handle our fears will determine where we go with the rest of our lives.
I liked the last half more than the first, but, overall, it was an engaging story about both coming of age and overcoming grief.
It was very realistic the way it was handled, though I did find her family infuriating at times: her mother completely vacated and left her kids to be raised by her overbearing sister and her control-freak of a husband while she dealt with what had happened.
Judy Blume actually signed this much-loved dog-eared paperback of mine and it is one of my most prized possessions. Sadly, I have tried giving it to tons of my 8th grade girls and they just aren't feeling it. But now that Twilight has made chastity hot, I may try it again!
I read this book when I was in elementary school.
Let's start at the beginning, with the book's cover.
I know there were different covers but this is the one I read over and over - it's a haunting picture.
It's about a young girl that sees her father murdered (or found him murdered - it's been since the 80's that I last read this...)and how she deals with that trauma, growing up, etc.
If you haven't read it and even if you aren't a teenager - the story captures feelings that we have all had at some point I highly recommend it.
Rating: 2.5 to 3
It's refreshing to watch Davey try to cope with her feelings while adjusting to the somewhat weird (to her) cultural landscape of New Mexico, which Blume captures nicely.
While I'd love to know more about Jane — there are hints of deep secrets driving her to drink — and I'd love to read more about Wolf, who becomes somewhat more conventional while still intriguingly different — Blume exercises ruthless economy and sticks with Davey.
Reflecting on the story after I finished reading, I could see the hints of where Jane and Wolf were likely to go.Here is the senseless gun violence of the USA shattering another loving family.
"A bright smile but sad eyes."This was a very very well done story.
I thought that was the best part of this book - that Davey was never perfect and she never tried to be.
Shuffled off to live in a strange area, Davey tries to find a new world without her dad.I'm so sad that this is being banned, even so many years later.
My only regret in this book (view spoiler)[ was the absence of Wolf.
(hide spoiler)] But my regret/sad part are just too true to life that I can't fault the book for it.
Timeless story. A teen dealing with love and loss told in a very authentic voice. The secondary characters were equally as authentic. A very relatable story, regardless of age.
Since Davey was thinking about her dad, she went to the bottom of the canyon, knowing the many risks that can happen and simply called out "daddy!" A few minutes later a boy shows up.
"Maybe someday I'll tell you about it, but not today." The reason being why this quote stood out to me is because sometimes we simply don't know why we're feeling down.
I thought that was appropriate because the reason why Wolf understood the pain Davey was going through, is because he was on the edge of losing his father.
I'm not quite sure why that is but it doesn't really matter, it just meant that I enjoyed Tiger Eyes as much as I always used to.Davey is just fifteen years old when her father is murdered during a robbery of their family store.
Although there is a hint of romance it is by no means the main focus of the story but that doesn't matter because this book is so much more.Whether you're an old Judy Blume fan, like me, looking to recapture childhood memories or someone who has never read one of her books before I would definitely recommend giving Tiger Eyes a try.
As someone who grew up on Judy Blume (I think I read Are You There God, It's Me Margaret for the first time in 3rd grade and about 100 times after), as a teen I was excited to see something new and something age appropriate get published.
Because life has happened, as it's ought to do, I found myself understanding Davey's pain and grief.
I found the same connection with Davey that I found with Margaret all those many years ago.
I read this book when I was 13 and enjoyed the book.
It was about this girl named Davey who had to move with her little brother and mom to move in with their aunt and uncle in New Mexico after her father was killed in a robbery at his store.
She then meets this mysterious guy named Wolf who knows how she is feeling and tries to help her move on.
There is even a movie of this book out on DVD and it was pretty good as well but be sure to read the book first before you watch the film.
I remember this being my favourite Judy Blume book as a kid, and I read it again now after my daughter read it. Some heavier subjects like the death of a parent, other parent's struggle to cope, teenaged drinking, but it is well-done with likeable characters, and Blume really connects to young female readers.
''Cuando los lagartijos corren''I read this book more than one month ago, and since then I've been thinking about how to write a good review.
And the way this book is written made me think I was there, in the story, with the protagonist.
So it made me think a lot about my own life, about my family, about love.
I was so into the story, into the characters, that I was even scared of reading the end and be disappointed of it.
This book is one of those you read and makes you think about your life.
In this book, Blume decribes a girl named Davey and how she managed to get on with her life after a critical incident that just occured.
Even though she seems skeptical about him, she knows that Wolf is the only person in this world that understands how she is feeling right now, since he too is losing his father.
Yes, the book draws you in and you feel as if you're Davey herself, but it doesn't have the elements that would put you in tears like some books do.
It didn't even feel like an ending.
They wrote about real teenage issues and I read and reread all of their books numerous times.
O_oThis story is about loss and grief, but in true Judy Blume style so much more is addressed.
Davey is a 15 year old girl who loses her father in a convenience store shooting.
Her mother, in an effort to escape the grief runs across the country to her sister and brother in law who live in Los Alamitos.Davey is having a tough time.
Unfortunately, her closest friend has problems of her own.In true Judy Blume style there are issues all over the place.
I was so excited, informing her that this was the edition I had and that she MUST READ IT!!
Therefore, I have decided to share in my own excitement and re-read some of the favorites I grew up with and that "literally" changed my life and set me on the course of librarianship I would seek many years later.
And of course, I love hiking too!But, seriously-- Tiger Eyes is the epitome of coming-of-age literature.
I recall Judy and Davey's teachings at the age of thirteen; including the importance of being resilient, conquering your fears and climbing that mountain, no matter how difficult.
Davey, a high school girl from Atlantic City, New Jersey has just lost her father because he was shot when managing his store.
While in the canyon she meets a boy named Wolf.
She soon goes back to school and meets and new friend named Jane.
Davey says goodbye to all her friends and leaves things for Wolf to remember her by in the canyon.
My favorite part in this book was when Davey finds out Mr Ortiz is Wolf’s dad.
I liked this part because she finds a new connection with Wolf.
(The others are It's Not the End of the World and Otherwise Known as Sheila the Great.)I did a re-read because I wanted to watch the film adaptation - and I was so glad I did (on both counts!) It's a fairly quiet - but not boring!
However, it was faithful to the book in ways that were small but satisfying (the Dracula cape, the Christmas candle, the dancing bear.) I was pleased that in the movie, Davey and Wolf actually kiss instead of her just fantasizing about it.
And watching the death scene instead of reading it was sad in an entirely different way.
Oh, Judy Blume. A faggy apron. Really!?But aside from that she deftly handles a young woman's grief and sustained growth in the wake of losing her father >>not a spoiler<<.Even if only briefly, she astutely addresses the effect of patent-child role reversal that tends to become reality as all are confronting tragedy and the child experiences her parent's vulnerability for the first time. Overall, she handled the subject of death/grief very well and even left some issues and storylines appropriately unresolved.
Picked this up at Half Price Books since it's one of those books I feel like I should've read by now. I thought it was really great. And, you know, I knew Blume touched on "scandalous" things, but I was kind of surprised anyway by the (view spoiler)[teen drinking problem (hide spoiler)]. My childhood was so innocent! Or at least, oblivious.
I remember reading this when I was 12 or 13 yrs old. Read this now for my 50 state challenge for new mexico. AS a preteen/teenager loved the Judy Blume books. As an adult reading it, it is definitely written for a younger reader but good story of death, loss, and new beginnings!
This book is excellent with detail and everything. I loved it!is aout a girl that moves to another place and she meets a guy who is mysterious and she likes him
