https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1558414.The_Sleeping_Beauty
While I do prefer Charles Perrault's version, I liked the illustrations and this adaptation is definitely more appropriate for today's children.
La historia es preciosa pero las ilustraciones son lo mejor con diferencia. Toda una obra de arte.

This was a short read but a bit different than the animated version. It was a good retelling of the original story and very interesting to note the changes such as the number of fairies listed as well as the 100 year old curse. It moves quickly but it was nice for an afternoon read. I read this on my kindle app for android.
Cute read. Good for the little princess in your life. This was a free download and I hoped it might be the original. I should have known the original is a Grimm tale. This one is very sweet. The descriptions gets quite wordy. It could have been condensed even more. I liked it though.
It is a classic, that was retold in a more kid friendly way.This book is not apart of a series, but I am sure that there are other books similar to this.I could compare this book to a book I read that had several fairy tales and short stories.
The spell would be broken if the special prince came and kissed the princess on the lips.
They got married and lived happily ever after.The main characters are the princess, the prince, the queen, the king, and the evil fairy.All of them end up having a great life except for the evil fairy.
My favorite character was sleeping beauty because she was the most fun character to read about. Something that surprised me was that they have lots of parties. I would not change the ending because it was a sad story but it was a happy ending.
A traditional style retelling of the tale, with a few literary fillips -- when the wizard is looking for a cure for the curse, you'll see a few allusions.Arthur Rackham's elegant silhouette illustrations, as well.
http://fiebrelectora.blogspot.com.es/...
Only in a fairy tale would a man who kissed a fifteen-year old girl in her sleep (without her consent) be celebrated, and even betrothed to said girl.For shame, unnamed prince. For shame!
Like most rewrites of a story, this differentiates from the original plot. The one main problem I had with it was that I was expecting it to be a more mature and likable version, but it glossed over the Prince waking up Briar Rose and made it even more innocent than Disney which is one of the most disturbing things I have ever encountered. I am going to forever try to avoid reading a fictional book that is less than 100 pages like this.
I was curious to discover if any backstory had been written for her character prior to Disney’s take on the fairytale, so I purchased Sleeping Beauty: The Ultimate Collection, which has eight variations on the story from authors C.S. Evans, Charles Perrault, the Brothers Grimm, Jeremiah Curtin, Alfred Lord Tennyson, Francis Bradley-Birt, and Giambattista Basile.With the exception of Curtin’s “The King of Erin and the Queen of the Lonesome Island” and Basile’s “The Young Slave,” all borrow from the same basic plot: a beautiful princess has fallen into an enchanted sleep and is rescued by a prince (or in one case, a tailor).
De la Bella Durmiente, por ejemplo, se habla de que esos cien años de sueño corresponden a la espera prudente que se debe tener para la iniciación sexual, o también que el hecho de pincharse el dedo se corresponde con ese paso a la adultez y el despertar sexual de la princesa.En cuanto a las ilustraciones en sí, son más bien sombras chinescas, siluetas que acompañan prácticamente cada página, algunas con más detalle que otras.
Y también la imagen que hay nada más empezar el libro, que sí que es una ilustración propiamente dicha más que una silueta.La edición está cuidadísima y ¡me encanta el papel!
There is the decree that was added to the book as well as one other paragraph that had been cut off.
I had to change the font size to be able to read it instead of continuing to the other page while even that didn't work for the decree until I flipped it to the side.
And my other complaint is the book so clearly contained pictures that had captions that were unable to be seen in my Kindle so it would read the story then the captions would interrupt before the story continued.
This is the fourth of the fairy tale collections I've had the pleasure of reading, and this one is my favorite.
Perhaps I'm biased, because Sleeping Beauty has always been my favorite fairy tale, but I think it's more than that.
These different variations of Sleeping Beauty are as lovely as they are unique.
The Charles Perrault version has always been a favorite, and of course the Grimm stories, The Glass Coffin and Little Briar Rose, are deliciously dark.
The Irish take on the tale is even more fantastical.
As I said with the others, this is a perfect collection for both lovers of fairytales, and researchers alike.

Read this version of The Sleeping Beauty to Ainsley at bedtimes. There were palceholders for picturs, but no actual pictures - would have been nice to have those.This is a much lengthier and richer version than any Disney version of Sleeping Beauty. But was not the original Grimms' Version - my understand is those are rather dark.Was a great read - could tell that Ainsley really liked it, too.
Beautifully told version of The Sleeping Beauty. This isn't the original version but a very very good one. I think CS Evans wrote it in the 20s. A lovely read which I highly recommend. I had forgotten. much of the story and replaced it with the Disney version which I don't think is very good, but I know I was exposed to this version many years ago as a child.
A version of Sleeping Beauty that has several of the motifs that found the way into the Disney movie. While some what dated, Evans should get credit for making his Briar Rose smart. She is studies everything so knows not only languages, but law and physics. While she still has to be rescued, she isn't a dumb blonde.
This was a very interesting read, because it can be fun to read the original fairy-tales and then compare them to the Disney version most of us are raised on. In particular, this story has some major differences to the Disney version, such as that there are thirteen fairies, not three good and one bad witch. Interesting read.
Charming free downloadThe Sleeping Beauty is a classic fairytale, one everyone should read.There are some odd formatting errors in this edition though. There are headings stuck in random bits of the text, I think they might be the titles of missing illustrations? Also on some pages the text condenses into a single, narrow column for no apparent reason. But, hey, it was free...
I originally downloaded this book to look at the Arthur Rackham illustrations, but I got drawn into Evans's text and the pictures became secondary to the words. A really charming retelling of the old fairy tale, with lots of little details and lists—marvelous lists!—to beef up the story. I believe Evans only wrote 2 other books; I am curious if they are just as fun.
So cute! The author has one amazing imagination! This is the original classic that inspired all the movies, plays, re-tellings, spin-offs, you name it. A bit long for a bed time story, but every little prince and princess should have this read to them. :)
I've been meaning to cross this one off the to read list for years. Finally did it. The story is simpler than the Disney cartoon movie and not as entertaining as Maleficent. It really is just a nice children's story.
I just love all the fairy tales. I love reading the original stories too, because most of what I know is what Disney has turned the story into in their movies. Which, of course, is totally different.So I really enjoyed this. :)
Since I started watching Once upon a Time, I am more fascinated with fairy tales. Believe it or not, I never knew the story of Sleeping Beauty a.k.a. briar Rose. It is a charming tale that really should be called The Sleeping Castle.$0.0
i enjoyed this fairytale - different from the disney movie as most fairytales are.Aurora (Briar-Rose) is one of my favourite disney princesses just because of her quiet nature, gentle and endless virtue.the story was okay, quiet short but enjoyable nonetheless.
This is a beautiful magical story. Its lesson? Try as you may you cannot control destiny. Sometimes we have to accept our fate. Sometimes it is for the best. I love this book. I have nothing bad to say about it. Read it.
Was a bit surprised that the illustrations in this book are black and white drawings, because I'd expected to see the full colour illustrations by Rackham like those in the "Snowdrop and Other Tales" edition. Nevertheless, it was a lovely rendition of the Grimms' tale.
It is a lengthening of the known fairy tale, very similar to the version of the Grimm brothers. Beautifully written and interesting. Although, I liked the short fairy tale much better because sometimes I felt that this one was way too embellished. Interesting nonetheless.
