https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32053.The_Complete_Poems
My favorite poem from my favorite poet:"Self PityI never saw a wild thingsorry for itself.A small bird will drop frozen dead from a boughwithout ever having felt sorry for itself." -D. H. Lawrence, 1929

What is it about Lawrence and sex? Even the tortoises are having intercourse in this collection of poetry. And let me just say, Lawrence, the bunny poem, dude, really? That aside, or maybe because of it, many of the poems in the collection are good. Even if Lawrence had never written any of his novels, many of these poems might have earned a place in literature as well. He covers more than sex, but politics and the hope and contradiction that is America. There is much about gender roles and rela
What is it about Lawrence and sex?
Even the tortoises are having intercourse in this collection of poetry.
And let me just say, Lawrence, the bunny poem, dude, really?
Even if Lawrence had never written any of his novels, many of these poems might have earned a place in literature as well.
If you have ever had a dog or cat that met a blue jay, you will love the poem of the same name.
In some ways, though the poetry, Lawrence shows himself as a follower of Wordsworth, a descendent of all those romantics.
The Great American Sage Don Jones introduced me to D,H.
Lawrence poetry in 2000 and D.H. is one of the greatest gifts I have received in understanding the depth and breath of the sacred masculine's longing for wholeness in our world ~ true love, natural beauty and authenticity in interactions with others.
This is a complete digest of D.H.'s poetic angst, insights and blessings in modernity that reveals a new wonderful landscape of wholeness in humanity and horizons in the human heart for all of us to explore within.
I keep this book on my classic top shelf and ready at hand everyday for inspiration.
love'One thing is certain, we've got to take hands off love.the moment i swear to love a woman all my life that very moment i begin to hate her.In the same way, if i swore to hate a woman all my life, I should instantly feel a pang of compunctionAmounting almost to love.' D. H. Lawrence
Bat I had to read some of D.H. Lawrence's poems for an English class my favorite one was Bat. Lawrence begins this poem by describing a beautiful scene of bats flying in the sunset in Florence Italy. He believes these bats to be swallows, but asks himself why are they flying so late. He begins to study the way they fly and how they look in the sky. When he realized that they are bats he changes, and begins to describe this animal with certain disgust, he calls them "creatures that hang themselve
Bat	I had to read some of D.H. Lawrence's poems for an English class my favorite one was Bat. Lawrence begins this poem by describing a beautiful scene of bats flying in the sunset in Florence Italy.
The scene of the bats reminds me of the national park in New Mexico where you can see the bats fly by the thousands on summer nights.
I liked this poem because the scene he describes is easy to visualize and I think bats are cute.
Didn't read this in its entity because I'm not a fan of poetry but I read a good amount of these poems and I liked them.But there are too many for me to sit and read this from beginning to end.
"The Piano" is my absolute favorite poem. I treasure this collection and keep it on my nightstand.
I'm not entirely sure that every poem in here needed to be published, but it was a complete collection and read over the course of many, many months, worth the effort in my opinion.
"darker stairs"
D.H. Lawrence's poems are intensely expressive.
My personal favorite of his poems in this large collection is the very last, "Phoenix".
It also includes poems regarding politics, love, morality, religion, justice, etiquette and even subtle satire :)Here are some short selections:Souls to SaveYou tell me every man has a soul to save?I tell you, not one man in a thousand has even a soul to lose.The automat has no soul to loseso it can't have one to save.Change:Do you think it is easy to change?
This is one I've picked up off and on over many years. My favorite is the little poemSelf-PityI never saw a wild thingsorry for itself.A small bird will drop frozen dead from a boughwithout ever having felt sorry for itself.- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Now, I could say that it is not a poem, but just a piece of observation which sticks in my memory. Which, I suppose, could be a definition of poetry after all.
Though Lawrence is mainly known as a novelist, he has written huge number of poems. His poetry is deep and digs into the consciousness of human nature and also mythical connections.Some of the poetry of Lawrence was translated unto Arabic, and I have rendered his poem "Ship of Death" into Arabic as far ago as 1964.
Reading this book was an epic experience in my life. I read it kind of slow. It's really like reading someone's journal. There's just a strange powerful energy to it. Most of the poems aren't great by themselves, but together they gain all these strange momentums, they start to take you over. Some of his short ones are his best.
SorrowWhy does the thin grey strandFloating up from the forgottenCigarette between my fingers,Why does it trouble me?Ah, you will understand;When I carried my mother downstairs,A few times only, at the beginning Of her soft-foot malady,I should find, for a reprimandTo my gaiety, a few long grey hairsOn the breast of my coat; and one by oneI watched them float up the dark chimney.
Quick read since the poems are just so beautiful and straightforward! His words are so beautiful but also witty sometimes! The poems certainly make me think of the cruel reality yet appreciate certain things!
I read some of his short stories and poems in highschool and thought they were dark and depressing with few redeeming qualities. I appreciate the attempt at defining the "human condition", but it just gets depressing and old after a while.
"And I think in this empty world  there was room for me and a mountain lion. And I think in the world beyond,  how easily we might spare a million or two humans And never miss them."
Awesome Poet!!!! Here is one of the poems I loved. It's short. Self-PityI never saw a wild thing/sorry for itself./A small bird will drop frozen dead from a bough/without ever having felt sorry for itself.
Look for selections instead. Lawrence had a lot of half formed repetitions, and junk. He was weak when working in rhyme, stronger outside of it. Pretty experimental.
Fanny Howe recommended this to me while I was in Russia. So far, I'm still in the rhyming doggerel early poems.
there is a poem about a broken bird-i forgot the titlequoted in g.i. jane movieby guy who plays aragon
why struggle thru lady chatterleys lover and missing the lame sodomy bit anyway its that lame when you can be a complete pansy and use this as yr pillow
Lawrence at his best int terms giving an insight about life.
This is a poet that will never get old he was way ahead of his time
I studied D.H. Lawrence for a high school assignment. Lucky for me, because I really liked his work a lot. I haven't read every poem, but some of my favorite are "Ship of Death" and "Snake."
Adore The Snake!!
ah wow. this is what inspired bukowski. a directness. plain language. nihilism. a bit of oscar wildian reverse wisdom. what a find.
Rotten politics - wonderful, searching lines.
