https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/855509.The_Miracle_of_Dunkirk
“We shall go on to the end. We shall fight in France, we shall fight on the seas and oceans, we shall fight with growing confidence and growing strength in the air. We shall defend our Island, whatever the cost may be. We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets. We shall fight in the hills. We shall never surrender…”- Winston Churchill, speech before the House of Commons, June 4, 1940May 1940. Nazi Germany is ascendant. I
The men Lord introduces provide decent coverage, from soldiers waiting for rescue to destroyer captains dodging German torpedo boats to civilian day-sailors crossing the Channel to lend assistance (A Night to Remember’s “hero,” former Titanic officer Charles Herbert Lightoller, makes an appearance, piloting his yacht Sundowner to Dunkirk).
Lord doesn’t really follow units around.
Despite the salvation of the BEF (and some French troops, too), this was first and foremost a massive disaster for the Allies, and Lord points this out on many occasions.One of the fascinating subplots of Dunkirk is the German failure to seal the deal.
It was also inspiring when the hundreds of local boats arrived to carry soldiers across the channel.
(That image was with me while watching news footage from Hurricane Harvey in Texas, and the hundreds of people who took out small boats to try and rescue people trapped in the rising floodwaters.
Highly recommended for history fans.Favorite Quotes"It is customary to look on Dunkirk as a series of days.
The rescue electrified the people of Britain, welded them together, gave them a sense of purpose that the war had previously lacked.
At Dunkirk ordinary Englishmen really did go over in little boats and rescue soldiers.
German Panzer Divisions poured through the French countryside trapping the British Expeditionary Force (BEF), two French armies, and all Belgium soldiers, nearly one million men pinned against the sea at Flanders.Lord does a superb job describing British resiliency as they tried to block the German advance at the same time they instituted a massive withdrawal to save the BEF.
What resulted at times was “bewildered waiting” and trying to avoid being hit by German bombers.The British command also had to make important choices as a number of destroyers dispatched to evacuate men began to be sunk.
Many of the survivors were still living when Lord wrote the book and his interviews with hundreds of them provide the reader with the "real" story based on their memories, even though some may have been a bit faulty.One of the greatest feats in military history, the rescue of the BEF and French armies with their backs against the sea, had everything against it and failure probably would have meant the invasion of England and a completely different outcome to WWII in Europe.
They lost 243 vessels in all, including Life Guard skiffs, pleasure craft, sailboats, ferries and naval ships of every size.The attrition was horrific but in spite of it all, in spite of the deterioration in the chain of command and the miscommunications between London, Paris and Dunkirk and the resulting chaos on the beaches, in spite of some of the crews on the civilian ships flatly refusing to return, in spite of the German torpedo boats taking pot shots from the sea and the Luftwaffe strafing and bombing from the air, in spite of weekend sailors running into and frequently sinking each other on the way there, back and even inside Dunkirk harbor--in spite of all of these obstacles and many more, they evacuated 224,686 British troops and 103,000 French troops.
Captivating war story, portrayed some true events, and how much war hurts us, destroyed us, and yet, people still do this all the time. For the sake of what? Greed. Only greed.
The reader should be familiar with the events prior to reading the book. Otherwise the book will appear to be a random collection of personal accounts.
Having seen (and enjoyed) the film DUNKIRK, I wanted to read a book on the subject that would give a fuller picture of the events concerning the evacuation of the British Army from Dunkirk, France in 1940.
I assume the "miracle" is the halt order for the German panzers (tanks) that Hitler gave on May 24, 1940, an order that seemed inexplicable to the British as it stopped the panzers when they reached as close as ten miles from the beaches of Dunkirk.
Through all World War I, the Germans were never able to capture the French capital.
During the formative years of World War II, the Allies occupying France and Belgium were out manned and out gunned by the occupying German army, forcing them into a bottleneck-style retreat to the coast.Lord does a very interesting and excellent job of describing this retreat (in the third person) through the use of personal accounts of the events.
If one does not have basic military knowledge, or existing knowledge of the events at Dunkirk (which I did not have), nor the use of the internet to google terms and maps of the retreat/army lay outs, then I would say this book may rank lower than the 4 stars I have given it.
The book recreates the greatest rescue of all time.
In May of 1940, 400,000 allied troops were pinned against the French port of Dunkirk with Hitler's forces closing in.
It seemed impossible to escape but most of the troops did.The story leads up to the rescue with hundreds of interviews of the participants.
Walter Lord lets the reader experience what is happening as if we were reading the conflict and episodes from the daily paper or in letters home.
If it was happening today, the information would have been on Twitter.However, with the excessive interviews, I found the reading was laborious and I failed to maintain interest.
DNF @ 20%What I knew about Dunkirk going into this book:-it is a place in France (probably)-something happened there in WWIIWhat I knew about Dunkirk after 20%-definitely a place in France-something happened there in WWII-this is not a good book to start with if you know nothing about DunkirkI'd like to give this another try after I know some basics of the Dunkirk scenario.
OK, I didn't like it as much as she did, mainly because Walter Lord felt compelled to put every bit of his research into the book.
So the principal audiences for the book, I think, are WW2 buffs and descendants of the people involved.But Lord is a *great* storyteller.
He wrote the book when he could still talk to eyewitnesses and participants, and I found myself getting sucked in, more than I was expecting when the big infodumps started.
I'm on the line between 3 and 4 stars, but annoyed enough with the infodumps to round down.
Walter Lord has a history of documenting the past and "Dunkirk" is no exception.
Five to seven days to pull off the amazing, almost impossible logistical feat of getting close to 400,000 combatants off a section of beach, across the English Channel to England and safety from the Luftwaffe, panzers and troops of the Germans hell bent on annihilation of the French and British Expeditionary Force.Lord's book is an eye opener for those who think Dunkirk was just a bunch of citizens rallying to pull a few men from harms way.

History is a passion of mine, and to read this story about the British retreat from Dunkirk, it felt like I was right there with them.
The author of this book is most famous for writing the classic Titanic tale "A Night to Remember," so it was fitting to learn from him that Charles Lightoller was a civilian sailor who also helped the British Navy with the use of his private ship during his nation's rescue of her soldiers.
Who was Charles Lightoller?
Goes to show that history is connected in ways one never suspects.
A great read!
This book is a very good book, you have to be able to really pay attention while reading this book because there is a lot of very confusing scenes and a lot of vocabulary that you need to know to understand the book. This book is full of parts about how war is not a fair thing and how it is very scary at times. This book is a longer read for some but was a good one for me.
This is a good book written by a good historian. The book is not new, I believe it was originally released in the 80's, but it has become more popular due to the film version of Dunkirk. The movie did not necessarily use this book as the raw material for the screenplay. Read this book either before or after seeing the movie and you will see how different the reality of this retreat was from what was portrayed on screen.
The way it was written was quite informative and in layman's terms, but the author jumped back and forth between dates so it was hard to follow.
Had I been reading it versus listening to it then it might have been easier to follow.
This book was informative and I learned a lot, but I never quite got hooked in.
I would recommend this to someone who is into WWII history books.
If they don't have an interest in military history or WWII then I don't know if they'd like this book.
Walter Lord does another great job of weaving personal accounts with the larger picture of a historical event. This time the event is the miracle of Dunkirk during WWII when the British were successful in evacuating the majority of the BEF from France and a large number of French soldiers.
This was SUPER interesting!!! Hard to follow at times as there are so many moving parts to the story. But a truly amazing story. I know nothing of the perils of war.
There are many exciting and heartbreaking events that happen in the book The Miracle of Dunkirk by Walter Lord.
The Miracle of Dunkirk follows the British Expeditionary Force and all the events they went through as they were pushed out of France.
The narration of this book mostly focuses on the British Expeditionary Force.
Walter Lord let you get to know the characters from the time they started fighting in France to the time they were rescued.
Ultimately, The Miracle of Dunkirk kept me in suspense hoping for the survival and success of the characters until I closed the book.
As with most adaptations, the movie paled in comparison to what truly happened during Operation Dynamo, which was succinctly captured in this book.
Additionally, he was able to sprinkle in perspectives not just from the Brits, but also the French and the Germans as well, presenting to a fairly objective and full picture of the few days during the evacuation.All in all, a good read for anybody interested in the Miracle, and for those that wanted to know more after watching the movie, though I really do wish Christopher Nolan had done more with the material.
I recently saw the movie Dunkirk. I realized that I did not know much about the evacuation and therefore read this book by Walter Lord. The evacuation was a huge undertaking in which there was many casualties and loss of lives. But it could have been worse. I gave it a 3 because of the large amount of acknowledgements which did not add to the story for me.
I've been spoiled by Nathaniel Philbrick (In the Heart of the Sea) lately. Walter Lord isn't as compelling or memorable in Philbrick's novelistic way, but he sure knows his Dunkirk. There are enough stories here to inspire an entire miniseries. (What say you, Christopher Nolan?) Good to finally read up on the greatest eucatastrophe of World War II.
Walter Lord always delivers historical facts in prose that read like a novel, "Miracle at Dunkirk" is no different. This was a great primer for the film that is coming out today. I close up the gin pennant for our British cousins!
Very, very detailed timeline of the evacuation of the British and French at dunkirk shortly after France surrendered in WWII. Congress the humane aspects will. Fascinating, sickening, triumphal,tragic. Interesting to see the mentality start to shift from the methods of war in WWI to WWII
Fast paced and enjoyable reading. The author seamlessly blends the overall picture of what is happening with individual stories that give the facts a heart.
Very detailedThis book was more detailed than the read I was looking for. Very in depth, not a pleasure read but potentially a researchers tool.
A masterful telling of a miraculous story.
In the nine days it took for the Wehrmacht to take Dunkirk, the British marine managed to evacuated over 300, 000 British troops and 100, 000 French troops.
Miracle is replete with fascinating stories, like the presence of Charles Lightoller: the only officer on the Titanic to survive its sinking, he commanded his ship to France and back, rescuing another generation from the perils of the sea and war.
Lord's heavy use of first-hand experience and storied style commend Miracle to readers with an interest in learning how the British and free French lived to fight another day at the port of Dunkirk.
