https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/352921.A_Fatal_Grace
No, only really remarkable people see the good in others."A fatal grace is the 2nd installment in Inspector Armand Gamache cozy mystery series.
In Still Life I was introduced to the inspector and his team and fell in love with Three Pines, the little village where the action takes place.
Gamache is a chief inspector in the Sûreté du Québec, an honorable and complex character whose main approach to solving a murder is to listen.
"The mystery was a bit more complex than last time and although I guessed the murderer from early on I enjoyed the ride and the plot twists.
Her creation in this book is so real, her writing so lyrical, her characters so unique and the book's structure and meaning so complex that I began mumbling to myself, taking my sweet time reading the book in order to savor its mix of flavors, its innuendoes and subtleties, having at times to stop and scratch my head.
And it is about the agony of the people they destroy.A FATAL GRACE is not for everyone, not an easy read, but it is a fascinating mystery and a work of genius.
So if you love mystery and rare, rich setting; if you long for unique characters and meaning deep as bones, then don't miss A FATAL GRACE.
Having grown up in Michigan amidst many a freezing winter days, I have, and in A Fatal Grace, Louise Penny truly brings a chilling winter alive making the reader feel you are at the enchanted snowy village of Three Pines in Quebec.In book two, there's another murder to solve for Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and his crew as the repulsively cruel CC De Poitiers is no more.
Deliberately electrocuted, the villagers almost seem to be celebrating that the monster is dead and for good reason, but her death is linked (view spoiler)[to another sad loss nearby.
(hide spoiler)]I am so enjoying this series and look forward to reading the next nine.
I'm a big fan of her Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series.
A Fatal Grace, the 2nd of the series, takes a different path from the first book.
More emotion, in depth character analysis, and what is perceived and what is really inside peoples minds.
Different and beautiful.
I'm only going with the audiobooks because of Cosham's voice and French Canadian accent.CC de Poitiers, the murder victim, has to be one of the most despicable characters written.
Just delightful!I first read a more recent Gamache novel, How the Light Gets In. A GR friend (Susan) recommended I start from the beginning and read them all.
Yet another of those books with two titles.
Take your pick.Anyway whatever it is called it is an excellent book.
I hate the cold, but love reading about places where the snow is metres deep and the water freezes on the end of the firemen's hoses as they try to put out a fire.
What more does a book need?Actually of course it needs characters and this book does not lack anything in that area.
There are characters galore, most of them slightly quirky or even quite outrageous.
I expect to discover more in future books which I am really looking forward to!
"The monster’s dead and the villagers are celebrating."It’s been some time, but I was happy to find myself back in Three Pines, the idyllic little community in Quebec that is peppered with interesting characters, as well as several secrets.
CC de Poitiers is fairly new in town, and definitely not a friend to any – not even those who had tried to make an effort to welcome this hateful, self-centered woman.
And he went into the dark, hidden rooms in the minds of others.
Since CC de Poitiers had arrived there'd been a gathering gloom over their little community.
No one liked CC de Poitiers – not her daughter, not her husband, not her lover, and certainly not her neighbors.
So when Chief Inspector Armand Gamache is called to investigate CC’s death on the day after Christmas- in the midst of a curling match- he has plenty of suspects, but apparently even though she was killed with the entire town present...no one saw a thing.[image error]A FATAL GRACE is a marvelous mystery in the classic Agatha Christie style...
The initial chapters seemed to lose the edge established by the prior book, the returning characters from the village of Three Pines seemed far less interesting than before.
Then Inspector Gamache came on the scene, late in my judgment, but once he made his appearance, the story took off, with an accelerating pace that lasted all the way through.
The Three Pines characters, now seen through Gamache's eyes and not forced to make it on their own, regained their gloss.
Inspector Gamache is just a bit too perfect and life in the little snow-globe village of Three Pines is just a bit too saccharine for my taste.I don't mean that to sound as dismissive as it probably does, and again, I understand that there are large numbers of readers who would love to live in Three Pines, but I'd probably go stark raving mad in less than a week.In thinking about it, it occurred to me that, on the one hand, you have the world of Three Pines and, on the other, for example, the world of Matthew Scudder's New York City as imagined by Lawrence Block.
What can I say? Can't add much to thousands or readers praising this series .... One thing is certain, A Fatal Grace left me wanting to read next instalments.
Louise Penny returns with a second novel in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series, just as riveting and captivating as the debut piece that offered the reader so much!
As Gamache and his Sûreté team begin digging through CC’s life, they cannot help but notice the truly Canadian surroundings, for this wretched woman died at a local curling event, having gripped the end of her chair, one that was seemingly attached to a sizeable generator.
Penny uses not only the peaceful Eastern Townships as her setting, but continues to provide the reader with some great character development of Armand Gamache, a man whose intellect is balanced with a compassionate side.
Is it any wonder Pure Evil results?And double toil and trouble for all the villagers.For -Into many a green valleyDrifts the appalling snow...The glacier knocks in the cupboard,The desert sighs in the bed,And the crack in the tea-cup opensA lane to the land of the dead.THAT is the Real Three Pines.So why not call it by its real name?
(And the minor complaint of an orthodox conscientious objector in a slightly amoral literary world.)And if you read this book you’ll LOVE it as I did.But if your ethical principles get in the way of your appreciation of the book, let your feelings play a double role as you read...
I don't think it is necessary to read the books in order but I think it will help to get to know Gamache, the members of his team, and most of all the quirky residents of the small village of Three Pines, Quebec.It is Christmas time in Three Pines but CC de Poitiers manages to alienate everyone she comes in contact with.
Inspector Gamache's methods when investigating a murder are to talk with the residents.
Three Pines is a fictional village but the description of it makes you wish it, and it's residents, were real.
Description: Welcome to winter in Three Pines, a picturesque village in Quebec, where the villagers are preparing for a traditional country Christmas, and someone is preparing for murder.No one liked CC de Poitiers.
Who could have been insane enough to try such a macabre method of murder—or brilliant enough to succeed?With his trademark compassion and courage, Gamache digs beneath the idyllic surface of village life to find the dangerous secrets long buried there.
As a bitter wind blows into the village, something even more chilling is coming for Gamache himself.Opening: Had CC de Poitiers known she was going to be murdered she might have bought her husband, Richard, a Christmas gift.
Chief Inspector Armand Gamach of the Sûreté du Québec received the call while with his wife – he was immediately headed to Three Pines where he’d investigated a murder the previous year.
There had been another murder.Three Pines was a pretty little village and as it was nearing Christmas, it was bitterly cold with snow and ice surrounding the cottages, the bistro, the B&B as well as the village green; even the lake was completely iced over.
He’d not encountered anything quite like it before…A Fatal Grace is the 2nd in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamach series by Louise Penny and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Louise Penny has become a firm favorite in the murder mystery genre and I just loved to be home in the Three Pines village of Quebec again with all the characters welcoming me.
The whosdunit was on!The book could well have been a novel about a small-town community without the murder mysteries to turn it into a picturesque magical, although imaginery, place.
For a small romantic village, there seems to be quite an extraordinary number of murders!
Hopefully the third book in the series will be just as good as the first two.
I guessed the identity of the murderer early in the story, but I enjoyed going along for the atmosphere, the coffee and freshly baked croissants, the cheese and wine being served as the cast of characters watched an ice hockey match on TV. Not everything about this mystery is cozy; there are dysfunctional relationships and sorrow. There are also some unexpected twists to the story.
The village of Three Pines and its stubborn, gentle (and occasionally murderous) folk who insist on living in a place that would kill you if you ran out of firewood.Inspector Gamache has returned to Three Pines following another murder.
I particularly liked the description of the church and its families.“On Christmas Eve St Thomas’s was also filled with families, children excited and exhausted, elderly men and women who’d come to this place all their lives and sat in the same pew and worshipped the same God and baptized and married and buried those they loved.
What Louise Penny does is create a small, intimate world, while creating a sense of place so pervasive you feel you know it.
Most powerful, for me, is the way she builds quiet characters of amazing strength and depth.
And she knows how to dose out the story, to keep you engaged.
I also love the poet, the Ruth character, and her arc, through all the books, is amazing.
I am not an expert, but Ruth's poetry resonates for me, I found it compelling, really powerful.
I wish Penny would publish a book of poems by Ruth.
The setup for this book is very long and the main thing the author established was how cruel some characters were and how others were affected by cruelty.
And for a while it seemed that it was only the characters who were being cruel but then I read this passage about a 12 year old girl.And beside him an enormous child was wearing a sleeveless sundress of the brightest pink.
It was grotesque.This is the author's description, not a characters.
And to me it makes the author more grotesque than any 12 year old child could be.
This is the second book I've read in this series and just as good as the other one I have read.
I'm not reading them in order, which is fine with me since it's usually a few weeks after I finish one before I start another in the series.
Here are two of my favorite lines from this book:"There at the back stood CC de Poitiers wearing a fluffy white sweater made of either cashmere or kittens.""Now she sat in front of him, nearly submerged under layers of thick sweaters and blankets.
With a head.
A very small, very worn head."
This series is great. I love the way Penny leads us into the psyche of people. Ganache listens. It is how he solves crimes. Gamache also loves people but I think Louise Penny must too. The people of Three Pines are an amazing cast. It makes me yearn for that kind of community. I love Ruth and the Beer Walk really touched me when I learned what it was. The story itself was pretty sad. I am enjoying the foreshadowing about the Arnot case and looking forward to seeing where that goes in future books.
It feels like coming home when you read this second in the Gamache series. Delightful! I would take a few good friends with me to live in Three Pines.
I enjoyed this one slightly more than the 1st book in the series, and that gives me hope for the rest of them! I find the stories to be slightly outlandish, but the characters and setting are charming. They have a bit more depth than usual mystery/thrillers. I'm curious to see where the stories go as one town can't possibly keep getting hit with so many murders and not have people questioning living there? Nonetheless, a fun cozy mystery that fleshes out the characters more as it goes along and has a compelling case! 3.5 stars
The 2nd in the Gamache series did not get quite as high praise as the first, but I will continue with this series.
That said, I love Gamache and his team.
I love the way he methodically plods to the conclusion and I try to figure the mystery out right along with him.
Also love the quirky characters of Three Pines...but I wonder how many murders can take place there??
I very much like that we continued to get a bit more insight into these characters and they are developing more depth and past history.
This is a really enjoyable, cozy mystery, starring the wonderful and ethical Inspector Armand Gamache.
In this second book in the series, Gamache and his team and called back to the small village of Three Pines to investigate the murder of CC Poitiers.
When CC Poitiers is murdered on the curling rink, one wintry morning, the whole village could have been a witness, yet they all claim to have seen nothing.
The real stars of this book are the three Graces – three old women who have been friends forever and around whom this mystery seems to revolve.
It took a little while to get started, but what a great finish!
I really enjoyed the second in the Inspector Gamache series.
The village of Three Pines and all its inhabitants comes alive under the pen of Louise Penny.
I'm also enjoying getting to know not only Gamache, but all of his team.
The villagers and the team are all recurring characters.
I'll definitely be continuing with this series.
Penny understands a great breadth of human emotion, and it shows in the wide range of her characters.
More literary than the typical mystery series, you may be surprised by the emotions elicited by her novels.
Welcome to Three Pines, a small-town community in Québec.
Problems gravitate to this tight-knit hamlet along with Chief Inspector Armand Gamache, a member of the Sûreté.
Once again, a woman was murdered and he was called in to locate the culprit.
Mother Bea, Kaye and Em and their relationship with the victim, CC Poitier, appeared to be the center of A Fatal Grace.
Food was mentioned because everyone likes to eat, right?
A Fatal Grace had a few bumps and lumps, some areas that drifted (no pun intended!) and several subplots that I am sure will come to fruition in other stories.
I adore this series SO MUCH. I thought I loved book one, but I actually loved this one so much more. And I absolutely did NOT figure out the murder before it was revealed! Can't wait for book 3!
Neither of them liked CC much, since she was abusive to both of them, especially the child.CC also had a lover, Saul Petrov, who was doing photographs of her for her business.
There are Clara and Peter, the artist couple; and Myrna, the flamboyant large black woman who is a former psychologist turned bookseller.
Em owned a dog, Henri.As usual with Penny, the books goes into the characters and their inner lives in depth.
In another scene, Gamache and some locals snowmobile over an icy lake in a blizzard to save a few locals.As usual with Penny, the book is bittersweet.
