https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21992879-somebody-at-the-door
I was so looking forward to reading Somebody at the Door by Raymond Postgate.
What killed the book for me was the interminable back stories for each and every suspect in Grayling's death.
Thank you to Poisoned Pen Press via Netgalley for providing a digital copy of Somebody at the Door by Raymond Postgate for review.
A lot of people will like this book more than I did, therefore if you enjoyed the excerpt and like the sound of the blurb, please take a chance and read Somebody at the Door.
Instead of a typical investigation, we get a series of short stories showing the background of each suspect with events occurring from his point of view.
The Inspector also learned this background information, and it helped eliminate some suspects and provided motive and opportunity for others.I did figure out whodunit from those stories and my guess was confirmed when the Inspector questioned a few people and turned up the final clues.
Yet much of the information in the stories was filler--maybe interesting in a historical sense but having little to do with the mystery.
Murder on the Home Front...Councillor Grayling is an unpleasant man, meaning that plenty of people would be quite happy to see him got out of the way.
It’s up to Inspector Holly to discover which of them did it, and how...In Verdict of Twelve, Postgate told the stories of the various jurors who were to serve on a murder trial, showing how their own lives and experiences impacted on the decision they would finally reach.
Postgate takes us through his life story, and uses it to look bitterly at the class divisions of Britain between the wars.
It's true as critics have pointed out, that Postgate does meander a little in his story telling style so that the second half of the book becomes a series of vignettes giving detailed background to all the suspects that sometimes makes the book feel a little uneven.
Nevertheless I found the story compelling and fascinating in particular in it's period detail.
Tiny details, likely to be deemed historically insignificant elevate the story and give the present day reader a great sense of place and time.
This feels like an artists eye.
I would like to thank Netgalley and Poisoned Pen Press for an advance copy of Somebody at the Door, a police procedural set in Croxburn, a London suburb, originally published in 1943.Henry Greyling staggers home after a train commute with several people he has angered or threatened and dies that evening in strange circumstances.
All he can do is interview the suspects until he arrives at a solution.Somebody at the Door is an interesting novel.
The bulk of the novel, however, is taken up with the back story of what led to the characters' putative murder of the unpleasant Henry Greyling.
On a miserably bitter January evening in 1942 Councillor Henry Grayling catches a crowded train at London Euston which will carry him home to the suburbs.
Carrying over £120 in wages from the firm he is employed by – which he will distribute the following day – Grayling fights his way onto the overdue train.
George Ransom a corporal in the home guard, who Grayling has had reason to take to task, and another local young man named Hugh Rolandson are all crammed into Grayling’s carriage.Later that evening the vicar receives a frantic telephone call from Grayling’s wife, pleading with him to come to her house – where her husband is dying.
Some of these I found interminably long, especially the tale of the German refugee, or very grim.As with “Verdict of Twelve”, in the end the backgrounds had little to do with the solving of the crime which arose from a pretty sordid and unoriginal motive.Postgate has too many axes to grind here and the political posturing got in the way of the story which, apart from the method, was really quite straightforward.
I kept thinking of the old “News of the World “ newspaper and its sensational, salacious and titillating stories.Martin Edwards’ Introduction gives a decent summary of the book and provides useful background on the author.
The train was the pivotal scene or so it seemed on a return journey, like any other.
Everyone returning after work on a dreary, very cold, winter like day.
An unlikeable character if ever there was one and in this carriage there were many who would have been very glad if he was dead.
The method of murder was particularly violent.
Mustard gas no longer in use but strangely enough could be obtained by any number of those in this carriage.
A different style to a mystery murder but appealing in its own way.
Enjoyable thrillerRaymond Postgate is best known for the impeccable Verdict of 12 but this novel is good but less well known.Henry Grayling travels home on the commuter train in a carriage of familiar faces and by the time he has reached his home he is suffering the effects of mustard gas and dies some time later. The rest of the book tells the story of each of the people from the carriage who are regarded as possible suspects. Each chapter is very detailed and is almost a book in itself. The denouement is well rounded off and satisfying
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Somebody at the Door is a war-time murder mystery by Raymond Postgate.
A disagreeable man is murdered on his way home, dragging himself to his door.
I think that says more about his character than anything else.Inspector Holly is a highly organized and methodical detective investigating the murder.
Henry Grayling is just a disagreeable, miserable cuss and worked at making other people miserable, though I am certain he thought himself a thoroughly proper gentleman.I enjoyed the investigation in Somebody at the Door.
So there is a lot to like about Somebody at the Door.
For a blurb that includes, "paints an interesting picture of the everyday life during the war" it seemed like everyday life was going on as usual for most of them.
No mention of rationing, no constant fear of bombing in Grayling's town, etc, it was a backdrop and an excuse for tangents, nothing more.Hey, this is just my opinion and you may like it.
I'm never one to be fond of pointless tangents, that's why I usually stay away from literary fiction and grab mysteries.
"Somebody at the Door" is about a man who commutes back home from work as usual is killed on his way home.
While the concept is interesting, but I felt I was reading few short stories of the individuals more than trying to solve the puzzle.This isn't the strongest book from the British Crime Library Classic series but nonetheless still a good read from the golden age of detective fiction era.
Another re-released by Poisoned Pen Press, "Verdict of Twelve," to me, is a better choice to get acquainted to Postage's ingenuity of writing classic crime works.
Very very good, it’s an exercise in character and world building first and foremost. Very “modern” for it’s age.
full review can be found here:https://nordie.wordpress.com/2018/03/...
I always like British Library Crime Classics as they help me to discover hidden gems of the Golden Age of mystery.This is a hidden gem that somehow reminds me of Christie's Murder on the Orient Express as there are both a train involved and the stories of the different suspects.The grime atmosphere reflects the historical period and even if it is nearly 70 years old it aged well.RecommendedMany thanks to Poison Pen Press and Netgalley
I had expected to enjoy this approach to a crime novel, we get to know about the suspects in depth and build our own ideas on who did the deed.
It is a very clever mystery with a clever cause of death, so although I didn’t enjoy it as much as I expected or as much as previous British Library Crime Classics, there were elements that made the book readable and entertaining.
Set in Croxburn were Cllr Henry Grayling has taken the train home from his work in London, with wages for delivery the next day.
The police investigate and we read accounts of his fellow passengers, a somewhat laborious procedure, several of whom have possible reason to dispose of the Counsellor.
These mini stories have some interest for the time it is set in, some background and some historical information.
In spite of all this it is not the worst book I've read and just about gets the 3* rating.
This is my favourite British Crime Classic novel yet.It has everything, a body (naturally), police procedures (old fashioned, but still gets the job done) and red herrings (enough to make a meal).Raymond Postgate wrote an atmospheric, very sharp, involving narrative which kept me guessing to the end. Very highly recommended.I was given a digital copy of this book by the publisher Poisoned Pen Press via Netgalley in return for an honest unbiased review, which I am more than happy to give.
Hours later he is dead, and it’s down to Inspector Holly to establish a list of suspects.
As he investigates it becomes apparent that many of fellow passengers on the 6.12 from Euston had their own reasons for wish Councillor Grayling dead.The more I read of the British Library crime classics the more I get drawn into the wonderful echo of the past they provide.
The story progresses as if each suspect is being ticked off that list.
Rather, each suspect is dealt with almost like a short story, tying them to Councillor Grayling in some teneous or more direct link, dependant upon the character.
Originally published on my blog: Nonstop Reader. Somebody at the Door  is a re-release of a 1943 mystery by golden age classic author Raymond Postgate. Published in the new reformatted edition by Poisoned Pen press 5th December, 2017, it's available in ebook and paperback formats.I've really enjoyed all of the British Library Crime Classics I've read, and this one is no exception. The characters are well written and though the dialogue does show its age somewhat (it's almost 75 years old), it su
is a re-release of a 1943 mystery by golden age classic author Raymond Postgate.
Published in the new reformatted edition by Poisoned Pen press 5th December, 2017, it's available in ebook and paperback formats.I've really enjoyed all of the British Library Crime Classics I've read, and this one is no exception.
I read this book immediately after Postgate's earlier book also in the crime classics series, 
The writing in Somebody at the Door is good, but Verdict of Twelve was masterful.
I'm finding it more and more necessary to go back to the classics for standalone mystery entertainment.
The wartime setting sets the tone and provides some dark atmosphere to the story.Mr. Henry Grayling dies by means of mustard gas poisoning, after riding from London to his suburban home in a railway car with several other people.
This cash is missing when he shows up at his home in distress and his wife carries him inside.
It's up to Inspector Holly to sift through the various motives and identify the killer.
The identity of the killer may catch many by surprise.It's a great read and is recommended.
The novel begins with a character sketch of the disagreeable town Councillor Henry James Greyling.
We follow him from work to the train home, where he shares a compartment with eight others.
Investigator Holly begins asking questions, only to find that most of the people in that train compartment plus two others have motive to kill the man.
And, which of the several motives is enough to drive someone to kill?Read the rest of my review at A Bookish Type.
I received a free copy of this book from the publisher via NetGalley for review consideration.
Though I appreciate this opportunity to read a British Library crime classic, I must say that I've found it a bit boring.
Inspector Holly reports every step to the superintendent and find a solution, but too much time and words are spent in each suspect's background.
Maybe I'm addicted to TV's fast solutions, which are, of course, unreal.
They are fast only because the show/episode has limited time (I hate the "to be continued" expedient and cliffhangers).
That's not to be considered by anyone who wishes to read the book.
A series of wartime vignettes crowded around the death of a petty and grasping middle manager of the worst sort - this is some BLEAK stuff of the kitchen sink kind.
The mystery is resolved hastily and without much fanfare (and with a "for reals, tho?" on my part) but, honestly, that doesn't seem to be Mr. Postgate's game at all; he seems to be much more interested in exposing the seamy side of the "Keep Calm and Carry On" attitude of WWII England, and how it failed the average person, than in fingerprints and chemical analysis.
Henry Grayling's dies in his own home a short time after returning home on the train.
Mustard gas caused his death.
Some of the man's belongings are found along the road, but the payroll he transported was missing.
The vicar provides Inspector Holly with a list of persons aboard the train.
As he investigates them, he discovers motives for many of them.
The solution may be obvious to the reader carefully paying attention to details; however, others may be left guessing until the revelation.This classic crime will appeal to those who enjoy police procedurals.
My remarks are based on advance e-galley provided by the publisher through NetGalley with the expectation of an honest review.
Well, this was fun.
Poisoned Pen Press has re-issued mysteries written decades ago -- this one originally came out in 1943.
The setting is contemporary to that time, so a vivid picture of World War II Britain, where an unlikeable town councillor has been murdered, and the inspector interviews those who were sitting near him on the train home.
In this way we meet several different characters and are shown their backstory, reminding me of newer novels that shift focus from one main character to another -- something like Olive Kitteridge, almost, in that the whole really feels more like a series of short stories.
A mystery that is a little different.
There is not much detecting.
The book takes a The Bridge at San Luis Rey turn.
A group of people get on a commuter train and later that night one of them ends up dead.
Lengthy narratives tell us how several of the riders were related to the dead man.
We get an escape from Nazi Germany, the story of a caddish Lothario, the story of a tragic widower, and the unhappy wife.
There are numerous digressions that are interesting but it was hard to see how they related to the story.
Henry Grayling, an accounting clerk in a London firm, takes the train home every evening to the small village of Croxburn, where he is the town councillor.
After Grayling dies that evening, it is clear to Inspector Holly that he has been murdered, but he must determine first how Grayling was murdered before he can find the murderer.Somebody at the Door is the second book by Raymond Postgate that I have read, both having been republished by the British Library and Poisoned Pen Press.
This was one of those books that seemed perhaps a bit too long while I was reading it, but when I was done I wanted to go back and read it again. I really liked the structure, with all of the back stories of the suspects leading up to their motives, but there were just too many details in some of them. That said, this was just a super satisfying Golden Age story—and I learned about the etymology of “vitriol” which was super interesting.
