https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/707252.The_Pride_of_Lions
The story beings with us meeting the snobbish and high and mighty English lady named Catherine "Kitty" Ashbrooke" on the day of her eighteenth birthday.
Catherine meets her match in spirit and fire in the young merchant Raefer Montgomery and the chemistry between the two is undeniable.
What follows is a series of events in which the reader begins to wonder if Catherine will ever grow up.
However, there are several wonderful and endearing characters that set about for the young Sassenach to begin to understand her Scottish warrior.
La autora divide en partes casi iguales el componente romántico y el histórico, pero aunque esto último en algunos libros me resulta sumamente atractivo, aquí no lo encontré bien desarrollado; las descripciones del conflicto entre jacobitas e ingleses son muy "técnicas" y, como el libro tampoco es tan extenso, se profundiza sólo en algunos aspectos, perdiendo la perspectiva completa de este período histórico.
Tal como vi en otro comentario, si antes no hubiera leído los libros de Diana Gabaldón, habría estado muy perdida.Respecto de la relación de Alex y Catherine, durante tres cuartas partes del libro solo encontraremos enfrentamientos y luego, casi por arte de magia, los protagonistas descubren que todo su rencor y resentimiento era amor ¿?
I had grown weary of your typical HR, as I found they were repeated story lines, all jumbling together and becoming more and more cheese as my reading tastes advanced.
Finally, I decided to do some serious research, missing that amazing pull of great stories, jam packed of history but still laced with a great love story such as my favorites 
It had everything I crave in my meatier books, plus a great love story..
It could have been made into an epic story if the author had expanded on it a little more...
In short, I loved this book...
Qué buena recomendación de Cassie y de Blackmagicrose!!
Qué maromazo es Alex, por Dior!!
Tal vez la historia de amor en un determinado momento es algo apresurada pero no te importa, estás tan metida en lo que cuentan y en lo que va a pasar que lo perdonas.
Tiene su tensión sexual bien puesta, sus momentos ajkhafdkjhakfjhaljkdshf, sus malos y su inevitable hostión que te llega al final y te hace coger el siguiente libro rait nau porque este libro no termina la historia de amor de Alex y Catherine, tienes que leer el siguiente.
Y Marsha Canham escribe genial, qué gustazo.
Si queréis saber más, leed aquí la reseña de Cassie!Alex, ven a mí!!!!!!
.99!Usually I only post about freebies but this is in my top ten romance reads of all time. For only .99! Get this book. Read this book. Amazon LinkP.S. - This ends on a cliffhanger, nothing outrageous but our main couple's journey is far from over. Be prepared to want to buy the second in the series.
I loved this book!
What a great find.
I just saw this book recommended at the Amazon forum about a "spoiled, rich & beautiful heroine" who was tamed by the hero.I never knew the author but I'm glad I was able to discover a gem.
The story was set in England & Scotland year 1745.
The hero is a Scotsman Spy & the heroine, a spoiled english debutante.
Like reading Judith McNaught's historicals.
I can never find another author as good as her.
Please do yourself a favor if you like historicals.
I am currently reading it.
I wanted to read on because the story kept my interest, but I had to quickly glance over the sections on politics and war.
But somehow the circumstances led them into a corner and Alex had to take Catherine all the way to Scotland, where they began to get to know each other better.
I struggled with Catherine's character, a spoiled young girl who thought she was in love with another man and was bitter and hostile to Alex for quite a while.
The story closes with the scene that Alex saw Catherine off at the harbor where she sailed for England, turned his mind to the upcoming war.
As she gradually lowers her defenses and pushes aside her pride, so does he, and the two slowly, but surely shift from enemies to something else entirely, just as Scotland is on the verge of the war that will change its history forever.Though this first book concentrates on the characters, especially Catherine as she grows and matures, and the budding romance between them, the imminent threat of danger is palpable and always on the outskirts of the story, there to see, but not yet ready to be grasped.Marsha Canham wove history and romance into a captivating love story, full of passion, devotion, and courage, against the backdrop of the (final) Jacobite rebellion.Catherine's spoiled ways took some time to digest (on the first read), but through the course of the book her character evolves from a spoiled child to a strong, passionate woman.
Those people should skip to second paragraph.) Isn't this supposed to be a romance?
Aren't romances supposed to have HEAs?
Yep, right in the middle of the story (albeit 367 pages of it.) Not only is the romance left hanging, every single part of the plot is also left hanging.
What will happen in the War?
What will happen with her ex.?...
I'm torn between giving in and buying the next book because I really, really want to know what happens or just forgetting it because the means employed to put me in position to buy are so deliberate and aggravating.
Está muy bien escrito y Alexander Cameron me parece un protagonista masculino maravilloso, pero se me hizo un poco largo. Eso y que Catherine me puso de los nervios hasta más de la mitad del libro, hacen que le dé un 3,5
Es difícil ponerle estrellas a este libro porque me ha gustado, pero me ha sabido a poco.
Entiendo que en la segunda parte se resolverán más cosas y no se me ha hecho pesado, pero no sé qué puntuarle.
Creo que al final marcaré 3, aunque estaría más cerca de las 4 estrellas.La verdad es que me ha gustado mucho.
Hacía tiempo que no leía libros así y me ha parecido muy entretenido.
I have to admit that at the beginning of the story I thought that I was going to give this story a low rating simply because Catherine irritated me.
At the beginning she was very childish and frustratingly annoying but man oh man how she grew.
I love it when characters within a story grow and mature, when there is characterization and the characters aren't stagnant.
Then there was Alexander *sigh* I loved him and I felt for him when I read about his past, it was really sad.
The time-frame of the book is 1745, not quite a year before the Battle of Culloden.
Catherine is young and in love, but not with the man she is currently kissing out in the garden.
Alexander is brash and bold, but not in love with the woman he is currently kissing out in the garden.
This book was light in places, but does take place in a bloody time in history.
But that is a small thing in the overall big feel of the book.
Deliciosa!!!
Me ha encantado, me pregunto porque diantres no me había enterado antes de este libro y esta autora?
Existe si una marcada diferencia entre la saga forastera y esta serie, y es el viaje en el tiempo, esta es una serie que no tiene ese componente de fantasia.Ha sido un muy buen y tardío descubrimiento, gracias a GR y las reseñas de mis contactos.Ya mismo voy por el siguiente!
The hero in this story is also a Scottish Highlander absorbed in the Jacobite cause and the heroine a Sassenach, an offending soubriquet to the English people at that time.
Major cliff-hanger there, I should say, although the author has gotten me transfixed enough to ever dare miss the second book now.The plot is carefully crafted; some of the important minor characters have their own share of point of view (POV) that doesn’t come out subdued, and there is a very exhaustive retelling of the Jacobite cause and what it brought to the Highland clans that honored it, which I enjoyed reading the most as I love history.
I loved the h but the hero I am still undecided on if I like him or not.I could not put this book dowm, and stayed up until 4 am to finish, only to find that the ending was so upsetting that I have to read the next book in hopes the problems get resolved.
A complete an utter whirlwind of emotions!The only criticism I have, and it's not worth lowerering a star over is that there is a lot of historical references and details of rulers and politics of England and Scotland.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, even though the heat level I would give it a 3, I couldn't stop reading this book.
Would they ever like each other, never mind actually fall in love?
And at the end they fall in love and then.....yes, circumstances pull them apart.
I like a book to begin and end.....I don't like waiting for the HEA.But I can honestly say i am looking forward to book two.
I like these two and I will enjoy spending more time with them and see what happens....Once again I want to thank my friend Kathleen for her recommendation.
awwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww *.* This one was perfect!!!! So much angst! :) I'm so in love with Catherine and her highlander <3 and also love the rest of the characters and the story. I didn't know I missed historical romance so much!! But now that I know I need my fix and I won't stop until I finish this series, because that cliffhanger at the end will kill me if I don't.
Maybe if I could actually be patient enough to bear with the gratingly irritating, annoying, jarringly immature and selfish heroine, I could move on enough to appreciate the history involved with this story. But alas, my nerves have been jarred enough by this most irritating heroine. A more unlikable and unsympathetic heroine I have not seen in a very long time. I want to throttle her so much, it would be hard to believe anyone would actually fall in love with her DNF.
Reseña en el blog http://alacamaconunlibro.blogspot.com...
4.5 StarsMarsha Cunham is a new (to me) author, and I will definitely be reading more of her books in the future.
Alex was a great character.
I know this is a series, so I truly hope we see some character growth in Catherine.
My favorite characters were actually Deidre and Aluinn, and if I get more scenes with either of them in the next couple of books, then I will be eternally grateful.
All in all this was a great book, and I am officially sucked into this series.
Cunham wrote great scenes and dialogue, with heroes and villians that I am curious about.
I found that the most satisfying part of the book.I love historical fiction novels and enjoyed the descriptions of the clan politics of the time.
However, some of the historical descriptions took me a bit out of the novel at times.
Overall though, I enjoyed Catherine and Alex's story and relished their slow acceptance of one another.I have read many of Ms. Canham's books, and although this one isn't my favorite (I would have preferred a resolved ending between the main couple), it is definitely a good combination of action-packed events, a slow-burn romance and character-rich description.
This was an incredible read, but not for the faint of heart.
This is not your typical historical romance novel.
This author did a significant amount of research giving us an incredible in-depth view of the events leading up to the 1745 battle at Culloden.
If you are looking for a well written novel, fascinating characters, and learning more about Scottish history, then I highly recommend this book.
If you are looking for a lighter historical romance, then I would recommend passing on this one and trying some other authors such as Kurland, Putney, Balogh, Kleypass.
acabo de terminarlo.... me ha encantadoanoche no podía soltarlo.Las ganas de leerlo me las dio la reseña de Cassie en A la cama con.. un libro, como siempre!! y, como siempre, encantada.Hoy mismo me pongo con Corazón Audaz, y se que esta noche otra vez me la paso casi sin dormir :-)
Loved it and am so grateful I knew to have the second book on hand. Onto book 2!!
First in Canham's Scottish trilogy set in 18th century Scotland and England (PRIDE OF LIONS, BLOOD OF ROSES and MIDNIGHT HONOR), it tells the story of pampered English beauty Catherine Ashbrooke and Alexander Cameron, the Scottish Highlander who wins her in a duel.
He carries his reluctant bride off to the Highlands where clan feuds and fomenting rebellion will sweep them into historic events and where their courage, as well as their love, will be tested.Canham's superb storytelling evidences great and careful research.
It's not just a well-told love story set in the Highlands, but an epic saga you won't want to put down.
It is funny that I really love hot sex scenes in my books now but these oldies never let me down even though they are not technically as steamy as some of the newer stuff.This is one of those books where the developing romance sweeps you into historical events so you get to learn while you enjoy the hot, smexy parts of the story.
The side characters are also well written and help to push the story-line along.A must read for anyone who loves Highlanders and the Jacobite Rebellion.
Ayrıca uzunca yer verilen savaş betimlemerindende oldum olası hoşlanmam zaten kitabın sonlarına doğru artık nasıl bulaştım ben bu kitaba demeye başlamıştım ki kitabın seri olduğunu öğrendim ve aslında bazı yerlerin uzun tutuluşu batmamaya başladı...Bence romantik yönden değerlendirmelerde o kadar da iyi sayılmaz yinede diğer yönlerinden gerçekten değerli bir kitap olduğu görüşündeyim bence iskoç-ingiliz tarihine meraklı olanlar oralara gidip yaşamış gibi hissedebilecekleri bir kitap beni tatmin etti gerçekten sevdim kitabı ama okurken hep romance diye düşünerek tam olarak öyle bir beklentiyle okuduğumdan tuhaf hissettim belki zamanlamadan olsa gerek...Virginia henley tarzındaydı ama üzülerek söylemeliyimki ben henley i daha iyi buluyorum.Genelde sevdiğim kitapları fazlaca eleştirirm ve bu kitapta ortalamanın üstündeydi bence.
There just happens to be a rather steamy love story thrown in on the side.
"I Agree , and its great if you like reading college textbooks on History.
I DON'TI had to force myself to read through "like" the middle of the book.
It almost seems as if the History Lesson in the middle was added as filler, to fluff the book into a standard size of 400 pgs.Also the edition I read, has an excerpt from the Sequel to this book.
Whats going to happen between Katherine and Alex?
Just read the 8 pgs of The sequel to come and u find out....
I loved the historical setting that begins about a year before the Jacobite Uprising of 1745, which is a fascinating piece of history and the author goes to great trouble to weave actual events and characters into the story.
I did enjoy the glimpse into the historical events of that time and I believe the author gave me a vibrant, detailed picture of how those events might have been experienced by those who lived through them.
A little more gore than I would have liked for the genre, but if you like historical nuance and detail and lots of bloody war scenes, this is a great book for you.
