https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90947.Hornblower_During_the_Crisis
My three star rating comes with an enormous asterisk.
Hornblower leaves the Hotspur.
On the way back to England, he leads a desperate attack on a French frigate.
Although the attempt to take the ship fails, some confidential correspondence from the New French Emperor falls into his hands.
They are hatching a scheme to draw the French out to battle.
I wanted to know what was going to happen next.
I wanted to see the story unfold - to follow Hornblower as he went to Spain to deliver his forged message.
Three stars out of five - entirely because it was unfinished.
Superb, if frustrating, final chapter in C.S. Forester's wonderful series of books about British sea officer Horatio Hornblower, HORNBLOWER DURING THE CRISIS is unfinished due to the author's death.
Nonetheless, the book is every bit as engaging as the other Hornblower novels, and the author's notes give at least an illusory sense of resolution to the story.
Included are two Hornblower short stories, one a tasty bit of mystery, the other a grace note that really ends the saga just as it should end.
I will miss reading Hornblower novels.
No other series of books has given me the particular kind of joy provided by this one.
According to the information on the book cover this is the book (actually part of a book) that C.S.Forester was writing when he died. It takes place just after Hornblower left the Hotspur.It's still a good narrative and I enjoyed it as I have all the Hornblower books. We follow him through the adventure that he ran into just after turning the ship over to it's new commander. Then there are some notes that tell us where the book was planned to go along with another short episode.So, a "fill in" in Hoenblower's life but still a good read.
This book had 3 such parts for the novel & the last part was 2 short stories "Hornblower's Temptation" (AKA 'Widow McCool') and "The Last Encounter".
Hornblower Addendum (2011)Hornblower One More Time contains 3 short stories:- Hand of Destiny- Charitable Offering aka The Bad Samaritan- Hornblower and His MajestyHornblower Addendum - Five Stories (2011) is 5 adventures of Horatio Hornblower, two as Lieutenant, two as Captain, and one as Admiral of the Fleet.The Hornblower Companion is an atlas with brief descriptons & should be read along with the books.Hornblower Chronology: From Wikipedia & other sources.(SS = Short Story)1.
The Ship of the Line May 1810–Oct 18107.5 Hornblower's Charitable Offering aka The Bad Samaritan (SS) Jun 18108.
A short, unfinished story- the last written by Forester.
The unfinished ending includes the author's notes on how the story will conclude (Hornblower is successful) in his mission to deliver forged documents to bring about the battle and Nelson's victory at Trafalgar.
I had to knock off a star because it was an unfinished manuscript- but even at the end of his life Forester could still spin an excellent sea yarn.
Looking forward to the next three books in the series- which I purchased as a lot on e-bay: Hornblower and the Antropos, Beat to Quarters and Ship of the line.
The story really picks up speed early on and maintains the fast pace up until the book just stops...
I understand that the author died, leaving the book unfinished, but it seems that the best course of action to me would have been to leave the book unpublished.
Perhaps hire a ghost writer to finish the book from the author's notes?
It seems to me, the publisher took the least favorable course of action.
What there is of the book is grand, but that it suddenly stops right in the middle of the plot is severely unsettling.
This 4 star rating comes with a caveat: The novel was left unfinished. What was written is marvelous. Ernest Hemingway loved C. S. Forester's writings, and I cannot disagree with Papa.
Hornblower volunteers to travel into Napoleon's empire and take the fake dispatch to Villeneuve; then the draft ends, left uncompleted on Forester's death.The problem with all of this lies in a kind of inconsistency with the rest of Hornblower's career, caused by the fact that the internal chronology of the stories does not match the order in which they were written.
The other is set right at the end of Hornblower's career, in the year of revolution 1848 when he entertains an unexpected guest whom he thinks is a madman because he is announced as claiming to be Napoleon; of course, he turns out to be Louis Napoleon (later Emperor Napoleon III) on his way to Paris to seize power.
It's a shame poor Forester died before finishing this book....it was working its way up to a great story!
The book ends as Horatio agrees to become a spy.
On the up side, Forester left notes as to how he planned to complete the story, so at least we weren't "left hanging"....no pun intended in relation to the traitor/deserter hanged in one of two short stories published with this book.
The first deals with Horatio's younger days, the second with his old age, leaving us with a completely satisfactory conclusion to the Hornblower saga......after I read the rest of the books in chronological order.....
I have savored these books for the last couple years, not wanting to read them all at once so I could enjoy them as long as possible.This last book was a perfect conclusion to the Hornblower saga. I am already sad that I have none left to read.
Reread well loved characters
Also included are two short works, one covering Hornblower's early career and one in which he is an old man living a good life."In a moment they would slide down the slippery slopes of sentiment, which would be unbearable." This passage totally encompasses Hornblower's character, and that of proper British officers.
He overcomes in his own particular way.In "The Last Encounter" an aged Lord Hornblower, Admiral of the Fleet, is enjoying the good life.
Hornblower humors the man with surprising results.Another excellent addition to the Hornblower saga even if left unfinished.
It is typically packaged with two short stories, one from early in Hornblower's career, one from much later (when Hornblower is retired and unwittingly aids the future Napoleon III!).
The novel is good; for the first time Hornblower is engaged in espionage, although his conscience is not fully on board.
However, as the notes reveal, the secret plot Hornblower is engaged in will lead directly to Trafalgar, so it is quite important indeed (never minding the fact it's fiction, of course!).
We also see Hornblower's promotion to post-captain confirmed in this book.Sad to see the Hornblower series come to an end.
This book actually has 3 stories in it.
He languishes for several weeks on a transport ship to England that has bad luck with the wind, is a witness for the court martial of his successor on the Hotspur, and then is headed off to be a spy when the story abruptly ends.
The next two stories are short vignettes.
the first tells a short story about Hornblower when he's a newly promoted lieutenant and is involved in the hanging of a deserter and Irish rebel.
This is not a typical full blown Hornblower adventure, but rather a collection of three short stories that take place at different points in the Hornblower chronology.
The first of these short stories is longer than the other two combined, and is the closest to the previous (chronological) entries in this series.
However, due to the death of C.S. Forester, the story remains incomplete and leaves the reader wanting the conclusion to play out (the story is concluded based on C.S. Forester's notes, but in rather abrupt and curt fashion).
The other two short stories are light repasts that do not quite fit either chronologically or stylistically.
This is an unfinished novel published after C.S. Forester’s death, and it looks to be an exciting story!
The publisher included some info at the end explaining how they think the rest of the book would have gone if Forester was able to finish the story.
What we do have is an exciting journey across the channel, Hornblower’s ever-constant duty to King and Country, and the hint of espionage.
We don't actually get to the "crisis" part of the book, but you can see from the publisher's notes where the author intended to go.
this book was NOT one he was working on when he died; it is far more likely a book he had started then discarded. Worse was the fact that after the "Authors notes about the ending' they publishing company put in something completely different. The main part of the book has Hornblower waiting to get his Captaincy "written in" [to officially become a Captain] but in the end of the book he is a newly appointed Lieutenant. ......... I am sorry I read this book because it nearly ruined the series for me.
This is definately number 4 in chronological order, but then a short story follows (Widow McCool), which goes back to when Hornblower was a signal lieutenant under command of Captain Sawyer.Confusion in this Penguin Edition as another short story emerges, The Last Encounter, which I have not read as I am trying to keep to chronological order.I am not sure why this final work was written out of order, was there continued demand for earlier career stories ?
Well, this was fairly disjointed. I think Forester died during the writing of this tale. The book was supplemented with the author's notes on the book's finish. there were also two additional chapters with short stories involving our hero. the last one was pretty frivolous, but fun, and had Barbara back again as his wife. I think I'll go back to some more modern spy novels--or perhaps some Michener...we'll see...
"During the Crisis" lacks a little of the spit and polish Forester would have given it if he'd lived to finish it; it's also just a fragment (not even half a book, really). But if you're a Hornblower fan (I am), you'll want to read it, anyway. In addition, there's something poignant about knowing it was the last thing this great writer worked on before he died.
Excellent, and yet unfinished. Has possibly the greatest opening third of any Hornblower novel, yet, due to Forester’s death, that is all there is.The addition of the short stories is an added bonus, but the book is tinged with what might have been.
I’m so hooked to this series, and loved the set up of this 4th book. One of the best so far, only to be sad that it comes to such a short, quick end. Worth the read in order, I’m happy that I have the fifth book to pick up!
I realize this story is unfinished, but the novel ended at quite a nice point. The short stories were pleasant reads.
This was the usually good yarn.
Good
Don't bother with this one. Just some notes on a book that really do not amount to much.
This book had so much promise for being such a great book! Spanish spy Hornblower is really something I would've loved to have read and explored!
A snippet and two short stories but it fills in some blanks and provides a capstone for the Hornblower series.
This review is for the complete 11-book series of THE HORNBLOWER SAGA by C.S. Forester, which I just finished reading last night.[Note: Individual books have individual star ratings (mostly 5-star, a few 4-star), but the descriptive review will be the same for each, and encompass the entire series, as follows.]Actually, I just finished reading the complete series for the second time, the first being as a teenager some 30 years ago.It's remarkable to me that I have only just this moment realized that my own timeline regarding the two readings corresponds almost exactly to the age progression experienced by the main character in the course of these 11 novels.It's a 30-year journey unlike any other I have ever taken in books - full and deep and satisfying.This is the epic saga of fictional British naval hero HORATIO HORNBLOWER, who goes from a 17-year-old midshipman to a 46-year-old admiral during the "golden age of sail" which encompasses the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century.I'll list the 11 books in chronological order (not the order they were written), which is the best way, I believe, to read them:- MR.
On the threshold of securing his first post as captain, Hornblower finds himself forced by the exigencies of war to fight alongside a man whom he has unintentionally helped to court-martial. For the first time Hornblower assents to engaging in espionage in his efforts to bring victory and glory to England in the Napoleonic Wars.This is an unfinished Hornblower novel which is much shorter than the usual Hornblower saga. What is disappointing is the cost for an much abbreviated work is the same as a regular one. A bit misleading.
