https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18512.The_Return_of_the_King
♥ ♥ ♥ ♥ ♥despite the couple dozen unnecessary scenes of Sam staring dreamily into Frodo's sad sad eyes, this is truly a flawless and timeless gay classic, one that boldly states Love Is a Glorious Burden That We Must Ever Shoulder.
So, like my reviews of the first two books, I’ve picked out ten things I really love about the book.
"To stay behind bars, until use and old age accept them, and all chance of doing great deeds is gone beyond recall or desire.”There have not been many moments for women to show their strength in this story.
Terry Brooks loved it so much he copied the entire thing, or thereabouts, in The Sword of Shannara.7.The Mouth of Sauron "Is there any in this rout with authority to treat with me?
“I am glad you are here with me. Here at the end of all things.”   I've just finished a re-read of the trilogy. There is only one lord of classic literature and his name is Tolkien. Sixty years later Tolkien's epic tale of men, hobbits, elves, dwarves, trolls and goblins is still relevant. In my opinion this was the best book of the trilogy. The Return of the King gave me ALL THE FEELS like nothing else, I got pretty choked up at the last chapter. The Return of the King contains a ton of appen
I've just finished a re-read of the trilogy.
Sixty years later Tolkien's epic tale of men, hobbits, elves, dwarves, trolls and goblins is still relevant.
The Return of the King gave me ALL THE FEELS like nothing else, I got pretty choked up at the last chapter.
The Return of the King contains a ton of appendices, and the readers can find out the conclusion for each of the Fellowship members.
'The Tale of Aragorn and Arwen' is one of the most beautiful things ever written (I really wish it hadn't been left out of the main story).
The last stand for the control of Middle-Earth!  I WENT TO MIDDLE-EARTH AND ALL I GOT WAS THIS CRUMMY RING That’s the message in a t-shirt that I got in a tourism travel (and I still have it!). I thought that it was appropiate to begin my review about the third part and final of Lord of the Rings.All that fuzz about a ring that can turn you invisible? You may think, but that was the least of its properties. Its major use was being able to control of the rest of ring-bearers with it, and if you
Their paths are separate, they are different kind of female characters, but definitely, they proved their own importance and vital roles in this story plenty of male characters.Galadriel’s role was centered mainly in the first part (but you'll find her here again), The Fellowship of the Ring, and you can’t doubt that she, along with Elrond (one of my favorite male characters), both are of the most powerful beings in the Middle-Earth, where their existence over there, defined the beginning and the end of the Third Age. Éowyn was introduced on the second part, The Two Towers, but it’s on the third and final part, The Return of the King, where she plays her vital role in an age where men were the ones usually in the battlefields.It’s clear that a predilect theme of J.R.R. Tolkien was to show that while wars are things to avoid if possible, if the war is inescapable, it’s short-sighted and close-minded not considering the worth and courage of the “unlikely” beings (Hobbits, women) and including them into the ranks of the defending army.
Will there be peace in the land of Middle-earth once more, or shall the darkness overpower the world?I want to write an amazing review for this series, because it deserves the best.
How amazing it was to walk side-by-side with the companions through his enchanted world.
The movies do not live up to the stories that Tolkien created.As I look at the books in front me I am just amazed at the beautiful written words that Tolkien created.
(hide spoiler)]They are my friends, and I will never forget any of them for as long as I live.The last line of the book Sam says "Well, I am back".
The Return of the King takes about a hundred pages to sink one's teeth into, but persevering is worth it for the glint of sunrise on a victorious maiden's hair, for the show of willpower against all odds in the eleventh hour, and for the golden bloom of a happy ending.
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to The Return of the King, the third book in the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy, written in 1955, by J.R.R. Tolkien. After reading the first two books in this series, how can you not finish it with this one? I knocked them back between 9th and 10th grades, loving every minute of the imagination and struggle between good and evil. When I got this this final one, I already knew I'd be sad to say goodbye to all the characters I'd fallen hardcore for over the 1500 pages betw
After reading the first two books in this series, how can you not finish it with this one?
as taking on such large books with everything else I had on my reading plate, did not make sense.
Of course, I loved the books more, but I still enjoyed the films and will watch them if I am skimming the channels and find one in play...The flaws in each of the characters, as well as their journey, are immense but real.
I am not a big fan of fantasy, and have only read a handful of books and authors in this genre.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Well, I've come to the end of the road once more...
This was my tenth reading of Tolkien's saga of Middle Earth (the first time I visited was in 1986) and it's pointless trying to write a balanced review of my favourite books.
Suffice it to say that these books are a part of me; written into my DNA, if you like, and I love them dearly.I'll be back in a year or two, Bagginses, to do it all over again...Buddy read with Sunshine Seaspray.-------------------------------------------------And I did come back!
You'll have to excuse me now, as I'm definitely not crying...
FULL REVIEW (hopefully) to follow after resolution of the lawsuit* filed against this reviewer in the District Court of Narnia by, among others: 20th Century Fucks Fox, Lucasfilms, the Tolkien Estate and Robert Van Winkle (aka Vanilla AsshatIce) in order to prevent the release of an allegedly offensive but in reality just knee-slappingly funny PARODY review depicting Darth Vader, Gandalf the White, The MOUTH of Sauron and several inebriated Ewoks hopped up on "Shire Ale" and "Longbottom Leaf" all playing a naked, sexually explicit game of "ring toss" using oversized versions of the One Ring; all while singing a re-mix club version of Ice, Ice Baby.
و گاهی آدم دلش نمی خواست پایان قصه رو بدونه، چون چطور می تونست پایان خوبی داشته باشه؟ چطور دنیا می تونه پر از خوبی بشه وقتی که این قدر اتفاقات بد میفته؟ ولی در نهایت این سایه می گذره.
حتی تاریک ترین شب هم می گذره و جای خودش رو به روز میده.این ها داستان هایی بودند که توی ذهنت باقی می موندن و برات اهمیت داشتن، حتی اگر کوچیک تر از اون بودی که دلیلش رو بفهمی.
ولی حالا می فهمم، آقای فرودو، حالا دلیلش رو می فهمم: آدم های توی اون قصه ها می تونستن تسلیم بشن، ولی نشدن.
ایمان داشتن که توی این دنیا خوبی هم هست و ارزش جنگیدن رو داره...»
Aragon, Gandalf and the others are nearly at the end of their rope.
I certainly didn't want it to end.
When I first read this as a young teen, I was a very slow reader.
It took me nearly two years to finish and by then I was fully attached to these characters.
That attachment began when I was about five years old, when I saw the Rankin Bass animated version of this book on TV.
I held on to that memory and supplemented it over the years with the other animated versions of Tolkien's Middle Earth series.
, which was published the same year.Not only does Tolkien put forth a vision of chaste, humble, 'everyman' heroes who persevere against temptation through piety, he also presents a world of dualistic good and evil, of eternal, personal morality, prototypical of the Christian worldview, particularly the post-Miltonic view.
Unlike Gro, Gollum is not a character with an alternative view of the world, but fluctuates between the hyperbolic highs and lows of Tolkien's morality.It is unfortunate that both good and evil seem to be external forces at work upon man, because it removes much of the agency and psychological depth of the characters.
Welcome Dark Lord of Mordor.Sauron [via Skype, single eye only] Thank you Oprah, it's good to be here, among friends.Audience: BoooooooooooooooooooOprah: Sauron, I wanted to do this show so you would have the opportunity to tell the story of the final volume of Lord of Rings, The Return of the King, from your perspective.[Sauron flinches] Oprah: I'm sorry, I understand you even have trouble with the title.
It was the lowest point for me since I tore my cornea when Barad-dûr came crashing down [a single tear drops from The Eye].Oprah: I thought you might have trouble today so I've brought you some help.[Dr. Phil enters to applause]Sauron: Aww hell no.
What else can I say? I enjoyed all these three books included in   The Lord of the Rings    (5 STARS),   (5 STARS) and now (5 STARS). It has the most tight interesting plot, memorable characters and universal unending theme: the triumph of good over evil. In fact, in the closing scene of the book, Frodo gives the book he wrote to Sam, the world's greatest gardener. The title of the book is The Downfall of the Lord of the Rings and the Return of the King. The "lord" refers to the evil king Sauron
The "lord" refers to the evil king Sauron whose disappears in the wind when the ring falls to the Mount of Doom together with Gollum and the "king" refers to Aragorn who comes back as the rightful heir of the king's throne in Minas Tirith, the city capital of Gondor.No matter in which race, nationality and religion you belong, it is always nice to know that the good persists in the end.
The Numeroneans (Appendix A) are very interesting because it traces the history of Middle-Earth from the first king to the start of the LOTR including the love story of Aragorn and Arwen who marry each other when Aragorn is made king of Gondor at the end of Book 3.
“So we come to it in the end, the great battle of our time, in which many things shall pass away. But at least there is no longer need for hiding. The board is set, and the pieces are moving. And now all realms shall be put to the test, to stand, or fall – under the Shadow.”  People:  *looking at the 3 star rating causes wincing and face spasms* What fuckery is this? You rated Tolkien 3 damn stars? Anish:   Guys, take it easy! This book was...People:  You rated the last one 4 stars bcz of that
This book was...People:  You rated the last one 4 stars bcz of that stupid shit about Sam calling Frodo his Master.
Allow me to use both those reviews as a reference point and explain, yeah?Series rating:The Fellowship of the Ring: 	5  ‘I-am-falling-madly-in-love’ stars!The Two Towers: 		 4  ‘I-love-you-but-not-blindly’ stars!The Return of the King: 	3 ‘I love-you-but-let's-get-real’ stars!Sooo, that happened!
I said in my last review too that it feels like you’re inside of a song while reading this.
This was the ONLY reason I deducted one star from the rating of book 2 and it only happned like 3-4 times in that one.
Is it even possible to review a legend? To write a review about a completely different and unique world?  It is not. It is just not possible. Just imagine writing a review about our world, about all the countries and cities and cultures and all the wars. It would simply be too long and too difficult. What I can say about this book is that the epic journey finally came to an end. The Fellowship had to fight bloody, hopeless fights, it had to survive epic battles and it found friends where friends
To write a review about a completely different and unique world?
Just imagine writing a review about our world, about all the countries and cities and cultures and all the wars.
What I can say about this book is that the epic journey finally came to an end.
Every single member of the fellowship had an own journey.
It is impossible for me to describe just how much I loved each and every character of this world.
Merry and Pippin who showed that they are just as strong as the humans, Frodo who continued his journey although he had no strenght left.
Well, there really IS no greater compliment...
Está claro; tú creas tu propia historia en tu cabeza, y eso lo hace mucho más emocionante y a la vez personal.
y eso lleva a que te enamores de cada uno de ellos, acorde a cómo los creaste en tu mente.Mientras leía este libro, me imaginaba todo el desenlace, me imaginaba a Frodo llegando por fin al fin del camino, y viendo lo que hacía, los nervios que tenía, la ansiedad, todo.A veces pasa que un libro, o una historia en general, es muy bueno, pero el final es malo.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Heck yeah! I’ve read The Lord of the Rings!
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Heck yeah! I’ve read The Lord of the Rings!
it's all come down to this!And so my journey through Middle Earth has ended *cue hysterical crying*.
Aragorn may get all the heart eyes, but Samwise is truly special.I thought at the end of my reread I would have a definitive conclusion on which of the three parts is my favourite.
I also just love the entire sequence of Aragorn becoming King *heart eyes* This book also has one of the most epic parts of the series..."But no living man am I!
These movies and the books are enshrouded in nostalgia for me and revisiting Middle Earth is always like coming home.
It’s an ingenious underdog story and a powerful parable about disparate groups of people working together for a common purpose.
In the book it’s filled with a lot more than it is in the film, including Merry learning that Éowyn is Dernhelm (which we all kinda knew).
And tell me that J.R.R. didn’t borrow from the Bard’s “No man of woman born” (from Macbeth) for this climactic confrontation.• Moments later, Théoden's dying speech, not knowing that Éowyn is right near him?
But their height competition in the book is very cool.• I love the humble, simple writing at the end.
But what Tolkien does here is to recreate, re-write, re-invent and re-imagine these ancient themes in his three volume masterpiece of truly epic and monumental proportions in a wonderful way that is unparalleled in 20th century literature.Considering the extent of the background and development work that Tolkien had to undertake to create and develop the highly detailed and fully formed world, history and mythology of ‘The Lord of the Rings’ – this was in one respect a truly academic as well as an artistic endeavour.
494. The Lord of The Rings: The Return of the King, J.R.R. TolkienThe Return of the King: Sauron sends a great army against Gondor. Gandalf arrives at Minas Tirith to warn Denethor of the attack, while Théoden musters the Rohirrim to ride to Gondor's aid. Minas Tirith is besieged. Denethor is deceived by Sauron and falls into despair. He burns himself alive on a pyre, nearly taking his son Faramir with him. Aragorn, accompanied by Legolas, Gimli and the Rangers of the North, takes the Paths of t
Gandalf arrives at Minas Tirith to warn Denethor of the attack, while Théoden musters the Rohirrim to ride to Gondor's aid.
Aragorn defeats the Corsairs and uses their ships to transport the men of southern Gondor up the Anduin, reaching Minas Tirith just in time to turn the tide of battle.
Together, Gondor and Rohan defeat Sauron's army in the Battle of the Pelennor Fields, though at great cost.
تالکین؛ مترجم: رضا علیزاده؛ تهران، روزنه، 1381؛ چاپ ششم 1391؛ فرودو و سام به حرکت خود در سرزمین موردور به سمت کوه هلاکت ادامه می‌دهند.
Confesso che è con una nota di dispiacere che ho visto all’opera personaggi che abbiamo conosciuto così bene ormai maturi, era stato tanto bello vederli crescere lungo il percorso, ma ne sono stati introdotti anche di altri in questa fase conclusiva che non hanno nulla da invidiargli.
E poi, oltre al gran finale, c’è pure un epilogo di tutto rispetto che non si limita a saluti ed abbracci (tanto per gradire ci sono pure le appendici).
Un lavoro che a tutti gli effetti ha fatto la storia della letteratura fantasy e che a mio avviso ogni appassionato di libri in generale dovrebbe leggere almeno una volta nella vita.
I mean of the Lord of the Rings series, this was probably my least favorite.
There was an incredibly long journey after the destruction of the ring following the hobbits' recoveries and their return home.
below are spoilersI also felt like the fight when they returned to the Shire was rushed, and I'm not entirely sure about its purpose.
All in all, I think my favorite of the series was the Two Towers, followed by the Fellowship of the Ring, and The Return of the King was my least favorite (though still a four-star read).
I’m sure glad Stevie didn’t bother to read this one:Sam and Frodo wake up in some swamp/heath/mounta
“Well, here at last, dear friends, on the shores of the Sea comes the end of our fellowship in Middle-earth. Go in peace! I will not say: do not weep; for not all tears are an evil.”   Four Stars:✰✰✰✰  (I should say that this is less of a review and more of my own musings about the ending and the overall quality of the story. I didn't feel like I needed to reiterate all of my critiques, because all of the things I have to say in my first and second reviews still apply for the most part. Check
In my last two reviews, I've done a lot of critiquing, because I felt like I needed to justify my low ratings, so I thought I'd reserve this one for some praise that I can give to Tolkien, because there really is so much good stuff here (and in this book in particular).
Something I love about this ending is that you really get to experience what it's really like when tragedy is overcome.
From world building, to the story as a whole, to the excellent writing, and an ending that truly impressed me, I think that everybody should experience these books.
Oh well, SPOILER ALERT!It's very interesting to me that Frodo is unable, at the edge of the Pit of Doom, to part with the ring.
I wonder if any mortal, even Sam, would have been able to throw the ring away?
But still, like Frodo and Sam, we can give it our best go.In the end, however, we will need to be rescued.
Like Frodo and Sam, we will not be able to survive or escape in and of ourselves, but we will need (so to speak) Gandalf and the eagles to come swooping down and rescue us, in the end.(I am, of course, speaking metaphorically in a religious sense.)
“What do you fear, lady?", Aragorn asked. "A cage,", Éowyn said. "To stay behind bars, until use and old age accept them, and all chance of doing great deeds is gone beyond recall or desire.” Writing this review I have a wild hunger to re-read this series again just to get to feel that excitement and the rush of emotions that these books instill in me.The epic conclussion to it all. The war. The great fight. The way it all ends. The sacrifice. The obsession. The act of overcoming the inredible.
"To stay behind bars, until use and old age accept them, and all chance of doing great deeds is gone beyond recall or desire.”
Writing this review I have a wild hunger to re-read this series again just to get to feel that excitement and the rush of emotions that these books instill in me.The epic conclussion to it all.
The great fight.
I love what J.R.R. Tolkien does with his characters.
He knows how to handle his characters that he so passionately created.
It's truly a must-read, a one-of-a-kind book that sets your imagination to motion and creates images.
Still 5 stars. Still amazing.
