https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/195988.To_the_North
They can drive, they can choose which parties to go to, they even get away with having a lover and not getting married.And yet, so little changed in the emotional situation of women during the century that separates Bowen from Austen.
It took another century, and writers of the calibre of Christa Wolf, to fully establish intellectual equality in at least part of (liberal) society.
Christa Wolf's daughters do not suffer from the same kind of humiliation that ultimately drives Bowen's Emmeline over the edge - as she is stuck between her modern way of life and her Austen-esque definition of female propriety and honour.
In her first novel, The Hotel, she pilfered and employed, far less successfully, the multiple perspective Virginia Woolf deploys in the second half of The Voyage Out. The identity of Woolf's heroine is thus composed of what various people think about her, which was Woolf's way of exploring the bottomless mystery of identity.
To the North shares the same fidgety perspective except, unlike with The Voyage Out, there's no real purpose to it.
It's like, for the time being, the only way she knew how to construct a novel was to flit from one perspective to another without having full command of motive.
Two WomenI have praised the beautiful Anchor editions of Elizabeth Bowen before (for instance,  The House in Paris  or her masterpiece  The Death of the Heart ), and this one, with its luscious portrait of a society beauty on the cover, is no exception. But back-cover blurbs can be deceiving. For instance: "A young woman's secret love affair leads to a violent and tragic act in one of Elizabeth Bowen's most acclaimed novels." True enough as far as it goes, but it totally hides the fact that, for
For instance: "A young woman's secret love affair leads to a violent and tragic act in one of Elizabeth Bowen's most acclaimed novels." True enough as far as it goes, but it totally hides the fact that, for most of its length, To the North (1932) plays as a social comedy in the manner of Jane Austen.
Contrast the impression of Lady Waters' husband, virtually channeling the whole line of not-quite-in-touch Austen father-figures: “Those young Blighs seem devoted, never apart; it's quite pretty to see them." Read slowly enough to savor, this is a very funny book.Bowen's subjects, like Austen's, are typically young women in adolescence or early adulthood.
I wanted (view spoiler)[Bowen to find a way for Emmeline to survive.
Why does the strong, independent female character who does not get married always have to die in the end?
In this case, I don't think Bowen was out of control of any part of the story, least of all the end.
Bowen's prose is complex and exact and her emotional insights astonish me.
Each relationship between the characters—it was a tight cast, but they almost all had scenes alone with every other character—provided new insight into them and the world in which they lived.Bowen's sentences have a rhythm that I was unpredictable.
I've been diving pretty deep into science fiction and fantasy the last little while, and so reading To the North was a little like exercising unused muscles - not genre, not recent mainstream fiction, something a little older and differently paced, with nothing of the fantastic about it.
It's a welcome break and a needed reminder of what books outside my favourite genres are (which is why I always try to keep a couple of classics/essential book lists on my radar.)Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Leisurely and enjoyable. Also much more comic than I expected: Lady Waters is an amazing creation.
Sisters in law, sharing a house but living fairly separate but overlapping lives. Lots of movement and travel allusions, though not much actually happens (even travel). The usual brilliant, caustic and slightly surreal analogies.
Was it a cliché at the time, I wonder, or is she part of the process of making it one?
To the North  is essentially a pair of love stories; that of two women, Emmeline and Cecilia, and their respective partners.
The ups and downs of their interactions are not at all like those of typical love stories, and it's ultimately very hard to say whether the phenomenon described is love, or whether the relationships are "successful," or even, what is "really" happening at all.
I liked the book mainly because I found Emmeline strangely riveting.
Then it got a bit darker again- the main character is called 'inhuman,' and I noticed that yes, indeed, what I'd thought was whimsy could be interpreted as her being detached and emotionally non-responsive.
Then it got a bit darker again, when the main character's young man is obviously seen to be an a-hole.
You suck so much that you make people go crazy and drive their cars into oncoming traffic!
At the start, I thought, nice and light, three stars.
The middle two quarters I thought, this is really great, five stars!
Not my favorite--The Death of the Heart is still the best I've read, but I have several more to go. I love that Elizabeth Bowen writes awful, untrustworthy men so well, and I appreciate the quality of menace that all of the relationships in this book have--but the fact of the matter is that I didn't like even the people I think I was supposed to like, which, with this kind of story, detracted from my ability to be fully engrossed. Still a worthwhile read, though. Markie is a true cad of the highest order and therefore a memorable villain.
It took me several chapters to make sure whether they did or did not do it, and by that time, the narrative, previously pleasantly uneventful, became wholly preoccupied with matters of Capital M Morality. Bottom line: this novel aged gracefully, but not well.
I see Bowen (and Mary Renault, too) as anti-Radclyffe Hall figures in a way, in that they're pointedly refusing an inversion model of sexuality, and they're both invested in depicting a specific kind of femme queerness that is often either absorbed back into straightness or read purely through the ‘closeted-lesbian-in-denial’ lens.
First reading (July 2014): This might be the best book I’ve read all year.
If you like Woolf, you will absolutely love Bowen.
Her prose is just as gorgeous and her insights just as wrenching, but she’s also got something Woolf kind of lacks: the ability to tell a really good page-turner of a story.
Cecelia and Emmeline seem so close, but the question is , in a world where women’s lives are restricted and what is not said is often more important than what is, can they help each other.I thought the book was over written.
At one point when Emmeline is having an argument with a boyfriend, I read: “She said ‘You are like an insurance company,’ and did not explain why.” I imagined some woman reading this in 30’s London and laughing wryly, having an exact image of what that meant.
The story was interesting but there were too many of these perplexing moments for me to really like the book.
Letter (in this novel) from a man to a woman who loves him.
"She could not see at what point the issue had become apparent, from what point she was committed: committed, however, she felt."I LIKED her character (Emmeline.) I even liked her awful housemate Cecilia: a monster of selfishness, but a soft little perfumed absurd monster.
But that letter and the conversations among all the characters that resemble it finally drove me wild with impatience, and I skipped ahead to the last chapter, where the ending irked me pretty thoroughly.
Recently widowed Cecilia Summers and her sister in law Emmeline share a house; they each rely on the presence of the other in the house though they live quite independently of each other.
As the novel opens Cecilia is travelling across Europe by train, headed home to London and the house she shares with her husband’s sister.
Emmeline is drawn into a relationship with Markie, while Cecilia and Julian seem to dance around one another rather as Cecilia reconciles her past life with the one ahead of her.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2015/...
I thought Elizabeth Bowen's novel "To the North" was an okay book, but surely not good enough to merit a place on the list of 1,001 Books to Read Before You Die." I didn't get a lot out of the story-- it's the kind of book that are a dime a dozen these days, though maybe it was new and inventive in Bowen's day.The story centers on two sisters-in-law, Cecilia, who was widowed a young age, and Emmeline, a woman with a head for business and the trials and tribulations of their love lives.
The book was okay, but nothing I'd urge someone else to read.
Eva recommended To the North by Elizabeth Bowen because one of my favorite books is Eudora Welty’s Delta Wedding and Eva thought their writing styles were similar.
157The book could also be characterized as a melodrama, especially in the story arc of Emmeline and Markie (yes that is what he is called).
On the other hand, a fairly intricate and ambitious metaphor comparing Cecilia’s widowhood to the redevelopment of an old estate really paid off emotionally and aesthetically; I was really moved by it.I’m so glad Eva’s recommendation pushed me to pick up a novel by Elizabeth Bowen.
Bowen wrote about ten novels, so I know I’ll have more opportunities to soak in her writing.
I don't know what this is about, but it might even increase my love for her, to see her reaching and falling a little short.Whereas in THE HOUSE IN PARIS or THE DEATH OF THE HEART (which I need to reread), the metaphors and longer descriptions sort of sneak up silently and ambush one: they are perfect, they are unavoidable, things could not have been put any other way, etc.--this wasn't always the case in TO THE NORTH, but that doesn't mean I minded...I was often just more dazzled than humbled.
In the end, I could see the connection between character and consequence Bowen was trying to make, and I found the end very effective.
Bowen has quite a cold style that seems suited to elegant ladies in drawing rooms, and I like that she actually often uses it to bring out the unsmoothness and subjectiveness of interaction.
I like how she has her characters have images of themselves and each other and shows us some of the variance of these images with reality.
An engagement ring has an emerald and a relative asks whether the wearer is superstitious: this I can follow, from this I understand that in this culture an emerald is more than a pretty green thing.
(Um, also I remember from Lace that Lili calls emeralds unlucky -- kill me now -- so it must be a Thing, even though it doesn't come up in Auntie Mame when Mame gives someone emeralds yet somehow manages to insult her with the gift.) But whether Dorothy liked her uncle, or whether either young woman liked their aunt-esque and how much she was supposed to resemble Lady Bracknell or Aunt Dahlia or Agatha I could not tell.
The main characters is a young widow, Cecilia, and her sister-in-law, Emmeline, who share a house in London.
Cecilia is contemplating a second marriage with a man she doesn't love and finds somewhat boring, mostly because she doesn't know what else to do.
Emmeline, on the other hand, runs a travel agency with a friend and seems to have the kind of life she wants, but falls in love with a man just wants an affair and who is a bit of a sadist since he likes it when the women he are involved with loves him while he just moves on.
This might provoke a very interesting discussion in a reading group: starting with "what makes a novel endure?" To the North was written in the early 1930's and is still in print today.
I suspect what makes it timeless is its stark portraiture of emotionally inaccessible characters.For me, it is rare to read a book that doesn't have a single appealing character in it--but Bowen's people are frighteningly disengaged.
I found the book absolutely chilling, but not in a way that drew me in---I am more fascinated by the fact that this book's appeal has survived nearly 60 years and that it continues to get very positive reviews.
I really am curious as to why that's so.
Une écrivaine à (re)découvrir !
Un roman "so british", pour l'Anglo-Irlandaise Elizabeth Bowen, dans une atmosphère feutrée, une tantine langue de vipère, une fausse amie, un mec qui n'est pas tout à fait honnête et une vraie femme courageuse et en avance sur son temps : Emmeline, contre toute attente.
Un destin tragique cependant, où l'écrivain démontre par là, qu'en ce début de XXe siècle, il n'était pas bien vu pour une femme de dévier de la route que la société veut lui imposer.
J'ai trouvé que c'était un livre très moderne pour son époque (1934).
This was a first read-through.
I'll need to read it again to better understand it.
Emmeline, one of the main protagonists, is so remote she seems hardly to be there, until she begins an affair with Markie, who's bad news.
Markie takes her on a wild emotional roller coaster ride.
""Spoiler Alert** After Markie breaks off their affair Emmeline remarks that she just needs to be quiet now.
This rang so true - how nice it is when the roller coaster ride of new love is over - for whatever reason - and you can go back to serenity.
This book starts out slowly, but gradually picks up the pace very cleverly until the frantic, whizzing language at the end that reflects the tension of the book's final scenes. I almost gave up on this book early on, because it really doesn't pick up until the second half.Also, the final scene is somewhat foreshadowed, but Elizabeth Bowen cleverly throws in red herrings to make you think what happens is going to happen in a different way.
Emmeline and her dead brother's wife, Cecilia, share a residence in 1920's London. Cecilia, the young widow, is involved with Julian and apprehensively moves towards remarriage while the more naive, Emmeline, carries on a secret love affair with the brash Mark Linkwater. Bowen is a wordsmith; she draws out the subtleties of the small moments so beautifully that I found myself rereading sections just to enjoy them again.
A bit convoluted at times this story managed to genuinely shock me at the end. It tells of the way society places restrictions on people, particularly women which can sometimes be unbearable. Forcing humans into moulds can give a falsely reassuring impression of a cohesive society of high standards whilst in reality merely covering up a festering discontent. The consequences can be shocking.
This book has a very modern day feel to it, even though it was written in the early to mid-twentieth century. I really enjoyed everything about it. It was a subtle love story with many contemporary issues: a woman's right to choose marriage, working women, sex out of wedlock.They slipped twist onto the book jacket, which ruined the outcome for me. Such is life. . .
I find this difficult to really engage with, but well done. I'd prefer to get farther into the heads of the main characters, or I guess to find more to sympathize and identify with in them. While I think a lot of this stems from me not being a class and behavior-conscious Briton of the 30s, that hasn't stopped me from engaging with other books from this setting.
This book was a disappointment after reading Bowen's The House in Paris, which I loved. I found much of the prose convoluted, and one of the central relationships just didn't seem credible. I did find myself caring what happens to Emmeline and Cecilian and Julian, but overall don't see why this is lauded as one of Bowen's best.
