https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/725992.Eloise_in_Paris
Not one to read to a class as it's verrry long, but I love Eloise and I love Paris. One-on-one with an interested youngster, this makes for a very charming and hilarious story.
Eloise's personal vocabulary contains "skibble," "granning" and, my favorite, "sklathe." I interpret it as a verb connoting an extreme, ele-gawnt way of positioning your body, probably prone.
The curvy, trembly lines fit Eloise's dash and dart style very well as she, Nanny, Weenie and Skipperdee skibble over Paris.
In the Plaza, Eloise's world is white, black and pink.
Knight smartly distinguishes this book from New York by introducing blue as Paris' thematic color.
Pas d'accord!) The pink that is she ELOISE manifests itself still in her signature bow and other totems integral to her personality.I liked how cultural differences were presented in the story.
What do I love most about picture books? Is it the simple text that tells so much in so few words? Or is it the brilliant pictures, an art gallery of drawings and paintings in every book?Eloise in Paris is a magnifiqué picture book, with the simple text plus brilliant pictures plus the charming Eloise and, of course, Paris. Eloise visits Paris and shares her brilliant insights into French culture, circa 1957. Experience Paris through the eyes of a clever and mischievous eight-year-old.
The Plaza Hotel's most famous resident heads to Paris in this second picture-book chronicling her frenetic fun, summoned by a special cablegram from her perpetually absent mother.
Dior - everything is rawther exciting for this little girl abroad...First published in 1957, and then long out of print, Eloise in Paris was re-released in 1999, together with 
Perhaps a little bit of Eloise goes a long way?
Since I never read these as a girl, I have to wonder if that is making the difference.
In any case, I'm left questioning my original intention of reading all the original Eloise books...
I am so charmed by the drawings of Hillary Knight of our little heroine, Eloise sashaying her way around Paris.
There you will find Eloise sprawled out on the floor on top of her map of Paris.
It's so fun seeing Eloise in a typical neighborhood Paris hotel, not like the grand digs of her home in New York City on the top floor of the Plaza Hotel.
The story is typically and wonderfully mad cap Eloise!
I like Eloise, but I find all the successive books to get a bit tedious. too much of a muchness, I guess.***Well, she's grown on me now I don't have young children.
5.0 out of 5 starsJADORE ELOÏSE!!!!Also I feel like these are things I would have wanted to do as a child in Paris lol
Very wordy. Eloise goes to visit Paris and the Louvre. Funny and cute, but a lot of words for little kids.
So, I went to the library and picked up this book hoping that it would be just as fun; and I was not disappointed.
Furthermore, the writing is so much fun to read that I definitely got into the French Accents when reading it out loud.Unfortunately I do not think my 3 year old daughter enjoyed the book as much as I did but I know that in a year or two she will be a Eloise Fan.One last note, if you like Fancy Nancy, you will definitely like Eloise because you can see that Eloise had to be part inspiration to that lovely new series.
Ughhh, whoever thought Eloise without Kay Thompson would work?
Yes I love Knight's illustrations -- without those, I'd give this zero stars.
Whoever writes these does this very bad parody of the original Eloise.
Well, I don't like the Christmas one, either, which I think Thompson did write.
The Christmas one rhymes, good god.
I guess these sequels are a good argument to quit while you're ahead.
Oh, and goodreads lists Thompson as the author -- she isn't.
The title says something like "Kay Thompson's Eloise," although I have to wonder where the real Eloise ran off to.
This absolutely isn't her.
Until today, I was deprived of Eloise, but now I see what I have been missing. Eloise is a precocious, well-traveled 6-year-old who reminds me SO much of my oldest daughter because she is into everything, loves big words, and loves to act MUCH older and wiser. And, oh my Lord, (to borrow a phrase from Eloise), I do mean everything. Has to been seen to be believed. I have a feeling there is a lot of Eloise's little personality that is soon to be played out at my house. A book to enjoy, and be careful with. ;)
Eloise is fun in a breathless, irrepressible way, a definite ancestor of Junie B. Jones. This is a fun little-rich-girl's look at Paris, but I wish it didn't say "froid is right; chaud is left." Just like with Junie B, incorrect grammar makes me cringe!
Eloise is still a pill in this book, but I loved it because I want to go to Paris, and I LOVE how she'll throw in French words with English. It was actually much cuter than the original book, and I think this one will definitely get passed along to the niece!
That was a beast to read. It was long and rambly and no punctuation. Cute, but not.
Here's the thing of it: Paris Here is what Eloise does in Paris: everything.
I'm listening to the audio book and there is so much French or Bernadette Peters is speaking so fast that I couldn't understand parts.I highly doubt a child would like so many foreign words unless they're learning that language.
French words seem to follow a completely different rule book and taken out of context of a French lesson, I think a child would get too confused and confusion leads directly to frustration.Disclaimer: I took Spanish in high school and college.
I've read French in books and I get frustrated because the words look nothing like they are pronounced.
Rawther festive, rawther fluzzery, rawther extraordinaire... Wish I had someone to read it too. Who knew French bread made excellent skis? Love the play on words, all the French words added in and the French icons she visited... even though we saw them through her eyes only. A young child's view of the world. A precocious child with a large vocabulary.
Eloise is hilarious. Dated, precocious, spoiled, and hilarious. Wearing French bread as skis (and later, putting the loaves out with her shoes to be cleaned); her dog has his own private swimming pool (the bidet). This is only my second Eloise book (I enjoyed her trip to Moscow more but maybe because it was my first time to travel with her.) Her insights are rawther wonderful!
I recently read the French version of this picture book. Absolutely delightful! Not an easy read for an intermediate French student like myself, but with the help of the photos and a dictionary on occasion, the gist of the rollicking, humorous story spill over even without 100% comprehension of every phrase.
This book is terrible. The sloppy writing is as bad as the sloppy pictures. Incomplete sentences and random phrases are thrown about the pages. The little girl takes the name of God in vain at least three times ("Oh my Lord") - maybe more but I stopped flipping through the book in disgust.
I want to own this book, and find the others and read them too. Delightful children's book.Read it again. Yep. I will be sad to give this one back to the library.
lovely
Not so keen on all the Eloise story lines but I am in awe of the illustrations. Rating more for the images than the character's quirks.
It is okay...skalthe?! A bit bizarre bizarre
"Everyone knew we were going but no one cried"
This is the first time that I have read any of the Eloise books. I have only seen the movies. I found it very funny and easy to read.
Hated hated hated this book, as did my 5 year old. If we could give less stars we would. Boooooo
Summary: The story starts with Eloise getting a cablegram from her mother telling her they are going to Paris.
Eloise explains the activities she does in detail all around Paris.
This story is so fun because it shows culture and brings forth a feeling of enchantment.
Recommendation: This is a great story to tell in order to teach about Parisian culture.
Many people knock it for showing a little rich girl running around the city but I think it offers a comment on how to live ones life.
Eloise doesn't let anything stop her she is kind to others and has fun doing everything.
At seven I discovered six-year-old Eloise, parent-free, running amuck in the Plaza NY and Paris with Nanny, a pug and a turtle.
I was smitten.The fact that Eloise has been abandoned to the full-time care of a nanny held enormous appeal.
Bliss.‘French sandwiches are abolements large and we had to put all these flags on them so we could tell which one was anchovy and which one was concombres which is cucumber.’I’ve managed to obtain an original 1958 copy of Eloise in Paris.
A large part of Eloise’s allure are the illustrations by Hilary Knight.
I love France, and have been to Paris, so it was a little bit of nostalgia to me (the tourist sites, not the lavish lifestyle.) We enjoy reading the books about her, even though I'm so tempted to say that she is just a spoiled, neglected-by-her-parents, rich brat.
I suppose this is one way to describe how "the other half live" (or is it more like "the other one percent"?) Our girls love these books, but for some reason, the stories always make me cringe.The illustrations in this book capture the essence of Paris, and although I get irritated by her excesses and her lack of supervision, we enjoyed reading this book together.
