https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/590524.Little_Bear_s_Visit
There is something so special about this book for me, I'm not sure exactly what it is.
I love the art.
This book took me back to my childhood with my grandparents.The story is about the simple joys of being with your grandparents who are different than your parents.
It was so lovely.
I haven't read this and it now has a special place in my heart.
Maurice did a great job on the art and Else has a wonderful story.The kids both enjoyed this story too.
Not like me, but even my niece read it.
This book is the first book I ever read and finished. Little Bear's Visit is a wonderful story about a bear visiting his grandparents. Little Bear uses his curiosity to learn about all of his grandparents old artifacts. Little Bears is told a story from is Grandmother, a wonderful story about adventure and care for others. This book is a wonderful simple read and is perfect for a stroll down memory lane.
This book is about a young boy named little Bear.
This is a good book to have in a classroom because there are a lot of them and children can relate to them, these are good for practicing reading.
I absolutely loved the Little Bear books when I was growing up.
I think because most of the books are about him finding his way through growing up and figuring out how to do things right after you've made a mistake or done something wrong.
These are very important books because they are all about lesson learning and what you can take away from it all.
Remember Little Bear’s Friend?
Here’s another set of stories about the same character!In this book, Little Bear goes to visit his grandparents at their home.
Together they work in the garden, eat cake and cookies, and have all the fun they can think of.
In the end, after having a splendid day of story-telling and frolicking, Little Bear’s parents come to take him home.As with Little Bear’s Friend, Little Bear and co.
In this story Little Bear’s grandfather tells him a (non-scary) story about a little goblin.Conclusion.
As effortlessly adorable as Little Bear’s Friend.Visit The Blithering Bookster to read more reviews!www.blitheringbookster.com
I liked it.
This volume in the Little Bear series is perhaps the most dear, the most nostalgic, and the most dull.
The second story about Little Bear's mother and her bird was sweet, but a bit saccharine for me.
Also, I still enjoy the mock look of worry on the Grandfather's face just before he begins to regale Little Bear with goblin story.
As a child, I felt these books were ancient, despite them being only a few years older than me.
Overall, Little Bear's Visit is a charming collection of tales very well suited for bedtime.
This book is about a bear named "little bear" and he goes to spend the day with his grandparents.
He was excited to spend time with his grandfather but after being awake for a while, grandfather feel asleep.
Grandfather woke up after the story, then he told Little bear a silly story about a gnome and his shoes.
Momma and Papa Bear came to pick up Little bear and on the way out the door little bear had so much fun that he feel asleep!I thought this book was really cute!
I really enjoyed the two extra stories inside that Little Bears grandparents told him.
Little bear visits his grandmother and grandfather house for their cooking, and learns all about their history and old artifacts.
Little bear is very curious, and has much to learn about his grandmother and grandfather during this story.
This book would be a great book in the classroom because most children can relate to the lessons and situations that little bear gets himself into.
Another reason why this book would be great in a classroom because little bear learns lots of lessons from the mistakes he makes, and can teach young children those same lessons.
This is one of the Little Bear books I had never really heard about until I noticed it on the list for this challenge.
Interestingly, based on my memory of other books in the series, including Little Bear itself, this one is quite different.
Most of the other books focus on Little Bear’s own adventures, but this one delves more into his grandparents’ stories about his mother when she was a girl, and an entirely made-up story about a goblin.
This isn’t my favorite of the Little Bear books, textually, but its illustrations are definitely something special.
Little Bear loves visiting his grandparents.
There are some kind of odd things about this world that Little Bear inhabits (why do the grownup bears dress in such period finery while LB runs about in naught but fur?), but the illustrations are charming and nostalgic and it just sort of works.
We're definitely going to have to introduce some other Little Bear selections to avoid fatigue for this one.
This is a wonderful starter for children who are beginning to read chapter books.
A Caldecott Honor Book, it is about a Little Bear visiting his grandparents.
When his grandfather falls asleep after a day of fun, Little Bear sits with his grandmother to hear a story about his mother (which is the next chapter, and it's a nice story).
When his grandfather awakes, he tells Little Bear a story as well (the next chapter).
Then Little Bear falls asleep while waiting for his parents to come.
This story is cute, simple, but in my opinion, would keep a child's interest.
Here the illustrator uses what looks like pencil drawings that he then highlights certain parts with colored pencils.
The size of the illustration varies from a single image to a detailed two page spread that encompasses three quarters of the space.
He brings continuity to the illustrations by adding a subtle, yet decorative, border around each page.
The outlines in the gutter get lost, but with the details of the border’s corners, you don’t notice it.
One interesting aspect of the illustrations, that my daughter noticed, is that Little Bear has no clothes and the adults around him do.
This was quaint and the perfect challenge for my budding reader. She became so excited with the completion of reading each chapter and the book as a whole. "This book is about Little Bear. Little's Bears Grandmother and Grandfather come to visit. Little Bear enjoys his visit, because he likes his grandmother and grandfather. They play together, tell stories to each other, and take walks with each other." - AppleBlossom, Age 5 Correction to her narration, Little Bear actually goes to visit them, not they come to him.
• 1962 Caldecott Honor Book •This is such a cozy, sweet little book! I love the story of the little bear visiting his grandparents, and the drawings by Maurice Sendak are great as usual. The coloring is a little weird - it’s brown and really bright green and the texture looks like crayon which is so strange - I think I would have preferred this with no color at all instead. But the story is really adorable, and I’d highly recommend this one! Very cute, and I’m happy I ran across it. Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
I enjoyed reading this book, I liked the interaction between little bear and grandfather and grandmother bear, it made me smile, because they did all the sorts of things that grandparents do. The pictures for this book were really quite sweet, even if it does strike you a little odd that the bears are dressed up in old-fashioned clothes and wearing spectacles. I'd recommend this book.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
My son has a very close relationship with this grandparents and I think he loved seeing that same kind of love between Little Bear and his grandparents.
As with the first Little Bear book, I find the adult bears really funny and I love Minarik's realistic dialog.
Because my son was only 3 when we first read this, and easily scared, I had to be careful how I read the story that Little Bear's grandfather tells him.
But after he heard it several times and knew that everything was going to work out fine, he loved having a suspenseful little shiver over it in the safety of my lap.
Synopsis: "Little Bear likes to visit Grandmother and Grandfather Bear. He likes Grandfather's hat and Grandmother's cooking. But most of all, he loves to listen to their stories."My Review: Okay so I know I said the last book was the best in the series but I need to amend that and say this was the best in the series. I loved that Grandmother Bear and Grandfather Bear played along with Little Bear and made everything fun during his visit. As it should be when visiting grandparents. I think Munchkin is really going to enjoy this story.
A perfect book to share with a 5-going-on-6 year old. The dedication reads "To all Grandparents and all Grandchildren." but even parents might enjoy this one. One story is titled "Mother Bear's Robin." I told Brenna that the Robin reminded me of her Daddy, and the Robin's child reminded me of her. "Read the next story," Brenna replied. See, we both enjoyed this one! The illustrations by Maurice Sendak are great, too.
A lovely story of Little Bear and his visit with Grandmother and Grandfather. I remember reading the Little Bear books with my own grandma as a little girl, and as 3/4 of my grandparents have now passed away in the past few years, this felt especially touching to me. I have so many fond memories of visits with my grandparents, activities I did with them, and the love we shared. Both the illustrations and story are wonderful.
What a sweet little story about Little Bear's visit to his grandparents. I especially liked the story his grandfather told him about the goblin. I'm not sure why this book won a Caldecott Honor, though. Maybe I'm just so used to Sendak's illustrations that I don't see anything extraordinary in them. One interesting thing is that the grandparents (who are also bears) are wearing clothes, while Little Bear isn't.
Illustrated by Maurice Sendak. This is an "I Can Read book" and is a Caldecott Honor book. According to the inside cover, this book has "more challenging chapters for the fully independent reader." I feel this book should be catergorized as a level three book. Most line lengths are 6 words and most pages only have 6 lines per page with the occasional page with 10-14 lines. It is a cute story that will keep readers entertained.
I like when there is more than one story in a book. Also loved how many words there are on the page. Here's a great story within a story kind of book, that keeps the reader reading and challenges them to do a bit more than they otherwise would. Excellent book and a lot of fun. The ending is something I can totally sympathize with.
Beginning reader that has good use of white space and spacing between words to support beginning readers. The illustrations clearly match the words. The book is 64 pages long, but pages vary between a lot and a little text. Children will be impressed they read such a long book. The book is a little dated, yet I still have students requesting Little Bear books.
The original Little Bear book is still my favorite, but I love the way this one celebrates storytelling and Little Bear's relationship with his grandparents. I also love the way it doesn't shy away from complex emotions, like when the robin in one story says, "My heart is sad" before he is set free.
This book definitely focused solely on family and Little bear interacting with his grandmother and grandfather. I think that children that have close relationships with their grandparents would be drawn to this story as well. A moral lesson about the importance of family could be taught for this book. There is no set subject area I would choose for this book.
Pictures by Maurice Sendak. Little Bear visits his grandparents, his grandpa plays with him and Grandmother tells him the story of Mother Bear's Robin and Grandfather tells him the story of the Goblin who got scared and jumped out of his shoes. Several other Little Bear books available. For Beginning readers, the "I can read books" Harper Collins.
I think this is my favorite Little Bear book! It's mostly about him and his Grandmother and Grandfather Bear. Playing and interacting with them and Grandmother tells Little Bear a story of when Mother Bear was young. Very sweet book!
Short stories about Little Bear and his family. Artwork consists of black and white sketches colored with minty green and brown. My favorite story was the story about the goblin who was scared out of his shoes and is chased by them through the forest.
This is one of the cutest bear stories that came in my life while raising my sons. My oldest son loved this book! He memorized "The Goblin Story" when he was four. I could listen to him recite that story over and over. I recommend this book for your little ones.
This is the fourth book in the Little Bear series and it is very good. I love this book! I love the cute stories Little Bear's grandparents tell. Also, the illustrations to go along are very pretty and complete the book perfectly.
