https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1267692.Bad_for_Business
BAD FOR BUSINESS.
Rex Stout.
**.That’s right, Virginia, Rex Stout wrote some mysteries that didn’t feature Nero Wolfe.
They featured a character called Tecumseh Fox. Tecumseh was also a private detective, but not nearly as interesting as Nero.
His cases were pretty much predictable, and his conversations were banal.
This book was a good example of all you need to know about Tecumseh.
I’m not sure why Stout tried to develop this character in preference to Nero Wolfe, but he did, and it didn’t work.
Don’t say that you haven’t been warned about this character and his escapades.
Bewildering if you've read all the Wolfe books and seen the A and E series.
Then I realised that I had read the Wolfe version years ago, or listened to it on audio book or something.
Death Times Three, which included the Wolfe version of this novella, was published very posthumously.
It turns out that Stout's publisher wanted him to create another detective, and he decided to go from Wolfe to Fox (and thank goodness he didn't spell it Foxx or Foxe).
It spoils both versions--and by "spoils" I mean "tells you everything in detail to the place you don't need to read the book." WHY?
I am a total fan of the Nero Wolfe series and have read most of them.
Tecumseh Fox is not Nero nor is he Archie Goodwin, but that is not to say he is bad.
I looking forward to reading the other two stories in the future as they become available on Nook.
I found it interesting how he works out the mystery and sort of steps you through it, unlike most mysteries that wait for the end to have some sort of reveal.
All said and done a totally wonderful little read that you should take with you to the beach or pool this summer, it will keep you guessing and entertained.

Many people don't know that Rex Stout had a series sleuth who wasn't named Nero Wolfe. And it's Tecumseh Fox--less eccentric but more active than Wolfe--who stars in this story about a manufacturer of food products who's found dead. The main suspect is his estranged niece, Amy Duncan, whose chartreuse eyes appeal to Fox, a sucker for a beautiful woman. Even though Amy is in love with her uncle's competitor, Fox is sure she's innocent--until someone claims to have had a conversation with her uncle half an hour after Amy found him dead.
This is my first time reading a Tecumseh Fox mystery by R Stout. Stout's signature style of writing shines through, but Fox lags slightly behind the Nero and Archie series on my list of favorites. Still, he is in interesting character and has the same quick wit as Archie., and he's certainly more active than Nero. Plot was interesting, but seemed a little confusing toward the end.
Not so clever, plot was quite obvious already in the middle of the story and after that it was a little boring to read. Not his best work.
Tecumseh Fox didn't really charm me as the lead, but nice light period detective novel nonetheless.
Fun old school PI.
The best of the Tecusmeh Fox books. A pretty clever mystery and Fox is freed from dull policemen and does a respectable job pursuing an investigation.
Tecumseh Fox is an interesting figure, but doesn't have the appeal of Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin. I found it a slow read.
