https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83146.Tully
She comes from a horribly abusive family and her background, as well as tragic loss, sets the stage for the poor life choices she makes throughout the novel.The plot moves at a turtle's pace taking us through Tully's devastating teen years where her mother's attentions range from nonexistant to severe beatings.
She finally decides to go to college and study social work.The tone of this book was tragic and disappointing, overly long, and hopeless.
(No I don't need to read a page and a half of how she convinces the state of Kansas to allow Child Services a bigger budget and longer training times for prospective foster families.) Tully then marries, out of neccesity, a man who loves her but she feels nothing for.
این رمان را بین سالهای 1380 تا 1382 ترجمه کردم، اما تاکنون به دلایلی به چاپ نرسیده است. از این رو تصمیم گرفتم آن را با همان تعدیلاتی که در وزارت ارشاد ثبت شده در فضای مجازی منتشر کنم. نسخهی پیدیاف و لینک آنلاین هر دو مهیاست. https://archive.org/details/Tullyhttps://www.scribd.com/document/34448...
این رمان را بین سال‌های 1380 تا 1382 ترجمه کردم، اما تاکنون به دلایلی به چاپ نرسیده است. از این رو تصمیم گرفتم آن را با همان تعدیلاتی که در وزارت ارشاد ثبت شده در فضای مجازی منتشر کنم. نسخه‌ی پی‌دی‌اف و لینک آنلاین هر دو مهیاست. https://archive.org/details/Tullyhttps://www.scribd.com/document/34448...
One of my favourite books ever. I cried buckets when i read this the first time! You will learn to love & hate the character of Tully as she both endears and frustrates you. Fantastic reading
I read this book many years ago, in my late teens and loved it.
I'm not sure whether I would appreciate it in the same way today, now I'm older and wiser, but Tully is definitely a title that has stayed with me over the years, and each time I see the front cover it fills me with feelings of anguish and sadness, as if I'm back within the pages of the book again.If you like the sound of the blurb, I recommend this one.
I imagine if I read it today it would probably make me feel nostalgic about my days growing up.
I think my loathing was more for the characters than for any faulty writing or for the book itself.
I have never read about a character that I loathed more than Tully, which I suppose is better than being completely indifferent.
I couldn’t relate to anyone in this story, which is a good thing considering they were all seemingly masochistic people who, for whatever reason, were all hopelessly in love with Tully.
It was a 400+ page novel and I finished it simply because I admit – begrudgingly – that the story, as horrible as it was, was engaging.
Tully, Paullina Simonsعنوان: تالی؛ نویسنده: پولینا سایمونز؛ مترجم: زهرا محمدی؛ تهران، فرهنگ تارا، 1383؛ در 515 ص؛ شابک: 9649461019؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 منسخه ای نیافتم
Powerful and engaging, Tully is a story of not just friendship, but also teenage nostalgia and looking toward the future.
As I started to get into the middle of the book, I realised that it would have greatly benefited from proper editing.
The main character, Tully is absoloutley awful and extrememly hard to like or empathise with.
Throughout the whole book, I just kept feeling like every emotion was fake - Tully's 20 year grief for her friend, her undying hatred of her Mother, her relationships with Robin, Jack and Jeremy.
I felt as though Jeremy, Julie, Tully's Father, Shakie and many others were an unecessary addition to the story.
Her best friend's betrayal in her senior year of high school is the hardest for Tully to survive.
There are those who try to help Tully throughout her life.
A man who asks nothing of her, who endures her silence and betrayal, and still loves her with every ounce of his being.
And there's Jack, the man who open's Tully's eyes and her heart, who makes her face her grief, a grief he too shares.Undeniably, "Tully" is a story of survival and self-discovery.
What makes the character Tully so real is that she is far from perfect.
But like Tully.....I have survived.
Tully is about a group of high school friends that are each individually shattered by a specific tragedy that befalls one of them.
Yet, in the midst of suffering--and the depressive nature of most of this book--there is a subtle, but very present message about the healing power of unconditional love; it binds this girl to two men who are at the heart of the tragedy from her youth.
The hard times these characters face are totally fleshed-out.
This book was hard for me to get through at times, but I could not put it down.
4,5/5 He terminado "El sueño imposible" con el corazón en un puño, pero el camino hasta llegar a ese final no ha sido fácil, quizá porque entender a Tully tampoco ha sido tarea sencilla. Creo que no he llegado a hacerlo del todo, por mucho empeño que he puesto. Tully, Jennifer, Julie, Robin, Jack y Shakie me han dejado poso. He cerrado el libro con cierto desazón porque ya no voy a saber qué va a ser de ellos, si finalmente cumplirán aquellos sueños, si finalmente serán felices. Paullina es maravillosa, hoy lo digo más convencida que nunca.
I also really couldn't stand the way that Robin just basically looked at Tully and said "Get over it and treat your mother with some respect." That was the real issue I think with their relationship is that Robin couldn't seperate his feelings for his dead mother with the feelings that Tully had for her mother, who though she was still allive, was in all senses dead to her the meant Tully pointed that gun at Hedda in the first section.All in all, this book really kind of sent me on a downer - Tully's life was so depressing and she had so many opportunities to change that she didn't take that I almost feel no sorrow for her or pity.
There aren't enough words to describe this book.
This story is not for everybody, the idealist or the faint at heart should perhaps stay away.
This world isn't one happy place and those that like to pretend it is, will be offended by Tully.
I felt this book to the very core.
Paullina has done it for me again and Tully will go on my shelf of books I have immense respect for.
I haven't picked myself off the floor yet but my heart is weirdly at peace.
I would gladly go thru this roller coaster over and over again.
5 stars well deserved Tully.
Another amazing book by Paullina Simons! Would have given it five stars if I didn't have to yell at the main character so many times for being a indecisive whore. That being said, I still loved it =)
In my top five books of all time. I loved this book more than words can describe!
I am blessed with a best friend that is that exact person to me.
Which she totally dominated in.In my job, I see things people don't get to un-see, I know the need to emotionally unload before you get home and the difficulty to relate to other "normals" who have no idea the horrible underbelly reality.Robin and Jack: trying really hard to say something without spoilers...I LOVED Robin...
I also really loved Jack.
I'm not going to lie, I would have likely done the EXACT same thing as in the book.
Very intense. Brutally honest. Incredibly real. One of my absolute favorite books.Years later, this book still sticks with me. There were just so many poignant moments in it and my heart STILL aches for this girl. This is, to me, the best Paullina Simons book (you can keep your Russians) and I will definitely re-read because I have so much love for it and would love to write a proper review immediately after reading.
Oh my god the shittiest book I have ever read. No kidding it took me over a year to read this as I just kept getting sick of Tully and her miserable existance.
I am sorry to say that I really didn’t enjoy this book – every page making me want to give up entirely on the story.
I don’t think I’ve ever rolled my eyes or scoffed in disgust so much in any book before.The story follows Tully Makker, a wild young woman, as she navigates a life filled with tragedy and hardship.
I wouldn’t recommend Tully to anyone but I found myself constantly surprised by the number of people who actually loved reading it – I can’t say I understand why but, who knows, you might like it…Find my entire review on my blog here
oh great another coming of age story about a mistreated teenager...However, I really liked the character Tully, and the story was original and entertaining.
This is one of those books that when finished reading I think, "yep, that's how life is." Even though I wouldn't necessarily have thought of it that way before reading the book.
I think that I agree with Tully in that the best dream of all is to be dream free -- even if this doesn't necessarily mean having all your dreams come true.
Oh, how I loved Tully. I loved the rhythm of this book. My heart will forever leak from the anguish, the fight, and all the hurt it put me through. I've never experienced angst at this level before. It isn't over for me. I could never get over this book. I'm still holding on to it. Always will.
Sin embargo, los hechos hablan por sí solos y no puedo encontrar comparación alguna entre ambas obras.Tully no es una protagonista normal, no es la heroína del libro, sino la “antiheroína”; no es amable, ni tierna ni inocente, no es nada de aquello que caracteriza a las mujeres de otras novelas.
A veces no sabemos si sentir más compasión por ella o por los que están a su alrededor.Natalie Anne Makker, o Tully, tiene la etiqueta de chica fácil escrita en la frente, pero eso no puede estar más lejos de la realidad, porque es una persona realmente complicada.
I very much enjoyed this book because it wasn't written to please readers in the hopes of them getting the character to do what they wanted them to do.
The fact that she was so selfish and played around with good men had me gritting my teeth, but remembering that she was a victim of sexual abuse and rape as a child, her actions surrounding dancing in strip clubs, engaging in sexual activities with much older men and messing around with their lives seems understandable.
This was Paulina Simons debut novel and I adored it ! It was a roller coaster of a read , filled with sorrow, laughter , love and disdain for the characters. I tried a few other books by this author but was disappointed as they just didn't have the same raw emotion as Tully . While not a resent release I would recommend the search to find it .
Beşyüz sayfa boyunca ne okuduğumu ifade edecek kadar mutlu değilim aslında. Sahaftan uğraşlar sonucu bu baskısı tükenmiş kitabı edinmeye gerek olmadığını bilin yeter.  Fazlasıyla tekdüze, über gereksiz duygu karmaşalarına hakim, nedenler ve sonuçların havada kaldığı, tek bir ana karakter üzerinden anlatılan olay örgüsünün de buhrana sebep olacak kadar boğucu olması, kitaba hayran bırakıyor. Aklım bu kaosun onda birini dahi kabul edemezken kitabı sevmem sanırım olanaksız.  Yazar fazlasıyla sığ on sekiz - otuz yaş arası evrimi ile Bronz Atlı kitabını mumla aratıyor.
Tully makes certain choices through her life which leaves you feeling frustrated, sympathetic and emotional throughout the book.She meets Jennifer and Julie who become her closest friends and help to fill the void and provide an escape from an unhappy childhood.
Along comes Robin who loves her unconditionally and wants nothing but for Tully to return his affections, and Jack who shares a connection with Tully through Jennifer.
The decisions and choices that she needs to make leave her tormented and emotionally drained.PS has provided yet another book that I thought was enthralling and captivating.
Extremely realistic character - she doesn't do the right thing A LOT. Frustrating and you want to keep reading. There is a "foreign" feeling to this book sometimes - I believe the author is Russian (?) and sometimes the American style of teenage isn't quite right. Nevertheless, Tully's actions and feelings are right on for a girl with a lot of problems.
Tully stayed on my to read list far too long. I felt it was time to read it, being that the author Paullina Simons wrote my favorite books ever - The Bronze Horseman. Tully made me laugh, it made me cry & like no other book has done before, it made me so angry. Pain. Sacrifice. Love. This story was heartbreaking but an amazing read. I'll never forget it.
Tully Makker is a tough young woman from the wrong side of the tracks and she is not always easy to like.
But if Tully gives friendship and loyalty, she gives them for good, and she forms an enduring bond with Jennifer and Julie, schoolfriends from very different backgrounds.
Against the odds, Tully emerges into young womanhood, marriage and a career.
At last Tully Makker has life under control.
And then life strikes back into the most unexpected way of all...This is a very 'real' novel.
I felt I could identify with Tully in so many ways.
For the first 50 pages I thought I was going to give up on this book & then it clicked & I was hooked, hooked on Tully.
This story is so character driven that I found myself talking to Tully as I read " oh poor Tully " " wow Tully, that's awful " " get your shit together Tully!" " what are you doing Tully?!" So many times I was holding my breath waiting to read what would happen & then my heart was a wreck.
She'll stay with me for a while I think.
