https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68526.Lords_of_the_North
The second season of the Last Kingdom has started off very strongly, and by the looks of things it’s going to be following the events of this book.
So it will focus on the blood feud between Uhtred and Kjartan, which is all good.
But if you’ve read the books you’ll know that this isn’t something that takes too long to resolve.
Kjartan’s is in for the fight of his life, but he also has bad blood with Uhtred.
He, too, longs for the possibility of fighting beside his brother, but Uhtred’s destiny lies elsewhere.
It was a favored slur during just about any time-period the author has written in and he's put it to good use.Cornwell is a master of historical fiction and excels at adding in appropriate details.
But the story goes on and ties up everything nicely that could need tying up, except of course Uhtred's Bebbanburg issue, which - let's be realistic - won't be cleared up until Cornwell decides he's ready to write the final book in this series.
It was a 4-star good time until the end.
Because fate cannot be cheated, it governs us, and we are all its slaves.
I don't know how much more I can love this series.
I don't know how much more I can say that I haven't already said.
I don't know how much more I can tell the world that I need a Viking, that I want to be a Dane and fight next to them.
I think my bloodlust has intensified and all I want to do is be a warrior.
This book, by far, is the best in the series.
Book one was heartbreaking and full of discovery.
I don't know how much more I can love this series.
I don't know how much more I can tell the world that I need a Viking, that I want to be a Dane and fight next to them.
This book, by far, is the best in the series.
Book one was heartbreaking and full of discovery.
I cried a lot in that book.
Book two was all about finding your place and figuring out where you need and want to be.
Book three is all about BETRAYAL, REVENGE and CONQUERING.
PLEASE....PLEASE read this series.
„Wyrd bið ful ãræd.“ – „Fate is inexorable.“ I had a super long review written for this series but I deleted the document accidentally so let me share with you at least some major points to explain my reasons for loving this series so much:* Astonishing storytelling skills. Bernard Cornwell brought 9th century England alive for me.* Unforgettable narrator. Uhtred of Bebbanburg is unapologetic and ruthless yet lovable and admiration worthy character with brilliant military strategic mind. He is
I really felt like I was there with Uhtred, fighting every new enemy or being part of countless shield wars.All in all, The Warrior Chronicles/Saxon Stories series (all 10 available books) is spectacular story with spectacular writing.
It is one of the best historical fiction stories I have ever read and it is the perfect example of how to write engaging historical fiction series that never get boring or predictable!Moreover, I loved author’s note at the end of every book where author explained which parts were based on historical facts and which parts of his novel he made up.
Another good episode in the story. Uthred's story is more isolated in this one and we don't have the epic battles of the first two.
I like him and I get him.Okay, if you have read my review of the first two books in this series, The Last Kingdom and The Pale Horseman, - and it would be most arrogant of me to assume that you have - then you will understand why I have started this review with those few simple words.For those who have not read those reviews, let me explain.I love this Saxon series of Cornwell's, I love the main character, Uhtred, I love the way Cornwell writes, I love this world he has brought to life for me and I love the whole blood letting, gorified (please excuse the fake word), lustful storyline.Need I say more?Hmm, yes, I think I will, but only a little more because I have said it all already in my reviews of the former books.This book is so me.
I wish there were scores more like it so that I would never be let down again by poorly written historical fiction books.
I'm risking genre burn out so I'll stop here for now. I liked it but I need to break it up with a romantic comedy or something. Well, that's extreme. Probably not a romantic comedy.
And, besides being smart, he is a brilliant warrior.Each character in the book comes to life, especially in the audiobook, read with clarity and distinction by Tom Sellwood.
He makes each character sound distinct, and it is never difficult to tell who is speaking, because of Sellwood's accents.
But, he uses English, Irish, Scotch, Danish, and other accents to good use throughout.This series of historical novels has such a good reputation, that a TV series The Last Kingdom has been based on it, and is now up to 16 episodes (two series).The protagonist in the story, Uhtred, lives to fight.
Uhtred is a blood-lusting arrogant ass with a cruel streak but also a redeeming goodness (which seems contradictory but you just gotta read for it to make sense).
The standard, marvelous Cornwell formula for good adventures and lots of bloody killing.In between Uhtred gets a good dose of late 800s politics, meets a slave king, takes some long overdue revenge, makes fun of priests, and spouts Viking insults left and right (regardless of the station or ferocity of the person).
Uhtred's love interest and a hard-ass Dane.
Still love Uhtred, the haughty blood-thirsty bastard, and just ordered the next one from the library.
Reread Aug 2016. Still one of my favorites of the series - particularly for the very satisfying end.
Uhtred tem uma rixa de sangue com Kjartan, o homem que assassinou Ragnar e sequestrou a sua irmã de criação, e também precisa recuperar Bebbanburg, que está sob comando de seu tio Aelfric."...
Com a ajuda de Ragnar, Uhtred terá muitos desafios em seu caminho, mas como ele mesmo diz: "Sou um guerreiro da espada e tenho orgulho disso!".Pontos fortes: a narração em primeira pessoa.
Como eu estou mais ou menos na mesma idade que o personagem Uhtred, parece que sou eu brandindo a espada e abrindo a garganta de meus inimigos!Pontos fracos: dos três primeiros livros, é o que possui menos partes de ação, que para mim é o que realmente interessa em um romance épico, mas não tira o brilho desse excelente livro.
I've heard a lot of people gripe about the fact that Cornwell sticks to a somewhat formulaic pattern with his books; a lot of people don't like it, but I do.
That's not to say that it's boring or stale, though; he's great at coming up with new places and plights to stick Uhtred in.Although I haven't read that much of his stuff when I opened this one I had a hunch I was gonna get a lot of his stuff he does so well; vivid and immersive setting, entertaining characters, and gruesome, gripping battles.
Uhtred does considerable growing up in the third installment of the Saxon Stories, growing from a brash and over-confident boy to a man hardened and tempered by suffering.
Spitting with rage over his demotion, Uhtred goes north to meet old enemies and make some new ones.
Betrayal leaves him enslaved and chained to an oar but unbroken, and when he gains his freedom Uhtred finds himself attacking a castle everyone assures him cannot be taken.
But of course he finds a way, and begins settling old scores with a vengeance.
Uhtred is the consummate hero, brave and bursting with enjoyment of life.
My best in the series so far.
I am really happy that this is the last book which I finished reading in 2016, because the Saxon Stories reaches to new heights with this book.
I sailed through this book in just about a week, and although the previous books were also a good sail but this book gave a new wind in my sails and left me wanting for more.As I am doing audio for these books, there was also a change of narrator for this book, and Richard Armitage does a fantastic job, conveying to us this historical fantasy with different voices.
As the title suggests the book is about north, and from previous books we have known that Uthred wants Bebbanburg more than anything else.

4,5 stars!
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
I expected this book to fall off the excellence of the first two, but it didn't.
So finally in the third book Uthred has his revenge on the northern Danes.
The three years of peace are skipped over well by removing Uthred from Britain for awhile.
But I didn't like that when he came back they did exactly what Uthred had told them to do 3 years earlier before he was sent away.
So to the story the three years are kind of worthless, except to age him and introduce a new character.
In LORDS OF THE NORTH, the third in Bernard Cornwell's Saxon Stories concerning the lives of Uhtred and Alfred the Great in the late 9th century, the author takes us away from the familiar trappings of Wessex into a whole new territory: the wild Northumbrian north.
We're introduced to a whole new cast of characters, and learn plenty of detail about their lives, but they're difficult to care about.
But I still didn't really care.Then Cornwell pulls a master stroke with the biggest twist of the books yet.
The first part of the book, excellent as always, chronicles Uhtred's downfall from rising star of the Saxons to...well, just read the book.
This happens in the exact middle part of the book (How did Mr. Cornwell do that?), and everything just goes uphill from there (Uhtred-wise, not story-writing or plot-wise—because the author is the absolute king of Saxon-Viking storytelling).Unforgettable scenes from the book if they were chapter titles:1) The Red Ship2) Thyra and the Hounds3) Father Beocca's MiracleThank you Mr. Cornwell for making me care about your protagonist so much.
I don't want his story to end, ever.
Fresh off of helping King Alfred defeat the Danes in Wessex, and essentially saving the future of England, Uhtred is expecting some sort of reward.
But alas, Alfred’s largess amounts to a slap in the face and so Uhtred heads north, intent on finding his stepsister who was taken prisoner by the Danish Lord Kjartan the Cruel.
He also hopes to get back to reclaiming his homelands.This third novel in the Saxon Tales does not let up in the strong plots and great characters.
These novels, even though based on accurate historical events, are anything but predictable.
What a fantastic series!
This is the third book in the Saxon Stories series.
After reading the first one, I binge-watched every episode on Netflix within a 24 hour time frame.
I loved it.
As I read this book, I remembered the slave section from the TV show.
I think I liked the drama of the show better than the book version, but that is one of the things that I appreciate about this series.....it isn't exactly the same as the TV version.
I like that the expanded details are different in each.
I listened to the audio and I am crushing on the narrator.
I had read his "Grail Quest Trilogy" before coming to this series, which I thought was a trilogy, but now know could go on much longer (it will be at least 4 books and I certainly hope for more)."Lords of the North" continues the fantastic, emotional tale of Uhtred, the fictional Saxon-born, Dane-adopted and raised warrior, that is fated to fight for England and a king that he does not like, Alfred.Uhtred lost his family when he was a boy and was adopted by a Danish Viking warrior, Earl Ragnar, who he loved as a father, and from whom he learned of the pagan deities, especially the spinners, the three mythical creatures that weave the fate of every man; hence his repeated statement through the entire series, "Fate is inexorable".Uhtred, after assisting Alfred the Great with the defense of Wessex against the Danes, marches north to regain his birthright which was taken by his uncle when Uhtred's birth father died in battle.
Einfach klasse geschrieben
Fate is fate.Uhtred may not like what the three spinners have in store for him, but he knows too that fate is inexorable; his own has long been sealed since the day his Saxon father died and a Dane father fostered him.It is fate that has led him to the north, where his beloved Bebbanburg lies, after realizing that winning King Alfred’s war has not gained him any fitting recompense.
It is fate that has determined his encounter with a Dane slave prophesied by a Christian monk to be Northumbria's king one day.
Cornwell extende os arcos dos personagens coadjuvantes ao longo dos livros, que agora considero como capítulos da crônica.
Acredito que, como leitor, é mais divertido ler em sequência.Sobre o Senhores do Norte, bem, até agora acho que é o livro que mais curti das sagas (tirando a batalha fantástica no final do segundo volume).
Cornwell é um dos melhores escritores de romances históricos que já li, e mais uma vez ele deu, em Senhores do Norte, uma aula de como narrar combates, misturando emoções pessoais com acontecimentos épicos.Recomendo!
This continues to be a great series. Despite his hatred for the sickly King Alfred, fate seems to be drawing Uhtred to the Saxon side of the war for England.Continuing in the vein of the previous books there is plenty of conflict and death. I'm not sure if this book makes Uhtred more or less likeable but it sure makes me want to know more about what happens to him.
This is an awesome third book in the Saxon series. King Alfred, King Guthred, Lord Uhtred, Lord Ragnar and all the others come alive. Definitely a book you won't want to put down. Bernard Cornwell has become one of my favorite historical fiction authors.
Porque o destino não pode ser enganado, ele nos governa, e todos somos seus escravos.
