https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3431560-the-great-weaver-from-kashmir
I thought I'm on an Iceland binge.... why not continue. Perhaps I wasn't in the right frame of mind, there was little of Iceland in it and mostly unpleasant characters. Not the book for me.
En ook van een werkelijk enorme rusteloosheid en onvervuldheid, wat nog versterkt wordt door de volstrekt koortsachtige irrationaliteit waarmee Steinn zijn verschillende overtuigingen verwoordt en verdedigt, en door de al even koortsachtig irrationele wijze waarop hij die overtuigingen inwisselt of juist met elkaar vermengt.
Met name de ellenlange passages over het Katholieke ascetische geloof, die mij zoals gezegd wel wat al te lang duurden, zijn door die passie enorm fascinerend: ze zijn erg scherpzinnig en op veel erudiet bronnenonderzoek gestoeld, ze zijn daardoor ook erg leerzaam in filosofisch of religieus opzicht en dus m.i. intellectueel heel bevredigend, maar ze zijn ook erg dubbelzinnig omdat de gekwelde geest van Steinn steeds door alle geleerde formuleringen heen kiert.
Read because I'm going to Iceland in the summer.
I might try another of Laxness's books, but mainly because I wasn't the craziest over this one, and I am going to Iceland, after all.
This was like a Hardy novel cut in half, only add 200 pages of the protagonist's philosophical and spiritual ramblings.
There are some real ferocious parts to the book, but they are much fewer than the philosophical and spiritual nonsense that we use to look into the protagonist.
I would recommend this to no one, but I can't say I didn't enjoy reading it for much of the time.
An amazing journey through the many souls of man. Only Laxness can throw everything, including the kitchen sink, in and have it work.
Because I want to go to Iceland.And he understands how an utter ass can be the center of young girl's obsession.
About the style: it's filled with poetic moments ("a jubilant monk of the world"), and unexpected use of language ("she felt as if her hands were filthy, as if a raw egg had been cracked open over them.") Not least in number are the youthful angst-type comical utterings ("I suffer in the company of men who do not suffer").
For every outpouring of dialectics that Steinn, the main character, makes up out of thin air, the author counterpoints with some small, ironic remark.
Although I felt like skipping fifty pages or so of religious rambling, I feel nonetheless like I will want to revisit this book, as it's the type of read that changes with the reader.
I usually stayed quiet when you were around because I felt that words couldn’t say what was in my heart.
As if I could put into plain words how I felt in my heart that day in the summer when you left!*And I listened to the rain fall, and memories rained down in my mind.
Your words are beautiful and terrible.
Everything that you say and do is beautiful and terrible.*I thank you, my love, for how you have allowed me to torment you.
I left Iceland last time with the intention of tormenting you; and when I leave again I leave in order to torment you.
'The Great Weaver from Kashmir' by Halldór Laxness was okay.
Ultimately, the book is about a young man, Steinn who leaves Iceland for the continent in order to find himself and experience a better life away from Iceland and the demands of his family.
Steinn never manages to grow up and his views on women would have been better suited for the dark ages.
Laxness seems to use 'The Great Weaver from Kashmir' as a platform to explore several theological issues, including many aspects of Catholicism.
These theological debates are sometimes interesting, but at times feel a bit excessive when combined with Steinn's boorish behaviour.
I wrote a long review with quotes that got deleted.
Incredibly bizzare book about sums it up.
But I cannot resist giving this one quote after all.
"It is horrendous to be betrothed to a woman: one can't go for a refreshing walk in the cool of the evening, like the Lord, without having a whole side of female meat hanging on to one.
Hard to see why this person got a Nobel prize in literature....
He wrote 60 books and this is one he wrote at 23, but publishing it (for the first time in English!) did him a huge disservice.
What an introduction to the author.
I may have been as frustrated by some medieval Catholic saint-philosophers back in college as I was by The Great Weaver, but I doubt it.
Those authors were easy to write off entirely as tedious, dogmatic, and ignorant.
They were simply wrong.
But Laxness was so obviously, undeniably brilliant.
His words were stark and modern as Hemingway but with an elegance that would make your heart ache.
As much as you might want to scream in frustration and throw the book down, you also wanted to turn the page to find the next poetic jewel of philosophic wisdom or penetrating observation.
What an amazing book. This is not only a stunning literary work in and of itself, but it is also a great representation of all Icelandic literature has to offer. This groundbreaking author deserves two thumbs up for introducing the world to the Icelandic culture's precise detail and perfectly in-tune voice in modern world literature.I am very much enjoying this introduction to a culture's contribution to world lit that I have not previously experienced.
Laxness is one of my favorite authors. This was his first novel, and it reads like it was a first effort. At times it is boring...more a theological debate than a novel. And it is somewhat misogynistic which I don't recall in his later work. Perhaps I missed something. I appreciated his use of humor & irony which would become better developed later on. Definitely an important book for anyone interested in Laxness.
** I obtained this title due to Goodread's First Reads*** I enjoy a challenge of conquering a book that is considered a hard read. This book and I have been involved in a battle for quite some time, and well the book won. This book has some beautifully written passages and others that cause to me change topic and focus. I feel that I need to do more research and reading of Luxness before I try this title again.
Brilliantly telling line...15 pages of meandering on the soul's torments. Hilarious aside...12 pages on the failings of modern philosophy. Clever description...9 pages on Icelandic weather. And so forth.
Recognizably Laxness though spotty with some overlong digressions, but even in this first work the magic is there throughout.
Remembering how to see the light behind the visage of things.......in other words, some people don't seek beauty because they bring it.
Review here:http://www.rochester.edu/College/tran...
ástin, trúin og sannleikurinn.
4 1/2
This book can be beautiful when it is not busy philsophising or moaning. disappointing as my first introduction to halldor laxness, though.
I tried, I really did, but I found the earnest search for Absolutes and the national and emotional stereotypes too tiresome.
Overall I was not impressed with this book. I will admit that I was looking forward to this book. The description I had read led me to believe it was of a different nature.
Loksins, loksins. Bókin hreif mig ekki. Senurnar í klaustrum Evrópu og sértaklega pælingar varðandi klerkastéttina eldast illa. Afturá móti eru mög góðar frásagnirnarnar um útgerðar- og verslurnarveldið reykvíska. Endirinn er pínu töff en annars er bókin ekki sérlega eftirminnilega á Laxness-mælikvarða.
Nothing like Independent People, don't buy it if that's what you are after. Well written but not enjoyable.
