https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149221.The_Burden
This has been sitting half finished on my e reader for a while, so I'm accepting that I may just not finish this (bizarrely, since I've had the e reader I've been finishing all sorts of dreck that I would have tossed aside if they had been in paperback form)This book starts of as bleak & sinister, then turns into dull & mundane. Just couldn't work up the interest to keep reading & see if it goes back into sinister.
What is extremely delightful is the fact that a writer who wrote such intelligent and thrilling crime novels could also write such lovely books on human relationships.
Everyone usually talks about how amazing a writer Agatha Christie was and that she is even today considered the Queen of Crime Fiction but hardly anyone ever talks about her Mary Westmacott novels and more is the pity as the readers don’t know what they are missing out on.
Do we have the right to decide for the ones we love, what is right and wrong for them?It is quite wonderful to see that Westmacott realizes that there are no easy answers to these questions and, that human relationships are extremely complicated and intricate and well, Grey.
Agatha Christies große Menschenkenntnis erkennt man an der Gestaltung der Charaktere.Schon der Prolog hatte es in sich. Mir gefällt die kompakte, nüchterne Art, wie alle beschrieben werden. Sie ist in ihrer Art zu schreiben ehrlich, unerbittlich und recht konsequent. In "Spätes Glück" fühlt man die komprimierte Essenz dessen, was man sonst in ihren Krimis recht ausschweifend zu lesen bekommt. Trotzdem bleibt Raum für Gedanken.
The Burden deals with a really dark plot revolving around the bond of sisters. The book had me engrossed from the beginning till the end. The characters were so well drawn up that I had no trouble believing in them, flaws and all! They were real to me throughout the book.
Sob o pseudônimo de Mary Westmacott, a dama do crime Agatha Christie conta a história de Laura, uma menina que está cheia de ciúmes com a chegada de sua irmã mais nova Shirley que é amada por toda a família.
Laura fica tão ressentida que chega a desejar a morte da própria irmã.
Fugindo um pouco das suas histórias de crimes usuais, Agatha Christie desenvolve mais o lado psicológico dos personagens e faz várias reflexões sobre a vida.
Em um determinado momento por exemplo, o personagem Llewellyn cita Kant e se faz as seguintes perguntas: "O que sei?
Foi a primeira obra que li de Agatha Christie fora do contexto "policial/thriller/mistério" e fiquei
A fascinating tale of how love can go wrong, how it can turn inwards on itself to the point of obses
Laura since childhood thought her opinions are absolute but in reality she only has a vision of the world and life is limited. Her love for her parents demand reciprocal excluvity but love for her sister becomes consistent and also unpredictable that come astonishing. A book with hard familiar realities and a bit of romantic mysticism that pleased me.
The burden turned out to be significant in ways more than one.
With all due respect to my reading speed, it would suffice to say that few stories have gripped my imagination and held my interest the way this one did.
Without getting into a personal rant, I would have to say that it was a refreshing theme to read.
Most of the characters were etched in a black-or-white fashion, the story lost its allure after the first half, and most importantly the ending was so cliched that I quite couldn't come to believe that it was the end.
I'm giving this three stars as an average over the whole book.
First 56 pages FIVE STARS.
Thought I might have found a new fav.
Next 70, pretty good 3 stars.
Interesting sister plot line, though I was much more sympathetic to laura than Shirley.
One star.
All this metaphysical god-stuff.
Shirley is even less interesting.
Laura Doesn't reappear until very end, when .......SPOILER HERE.......she's "saved" by this god-guy.
She falls for him?!?!
I so wish she'd stayed more like the little girl of the first 60p.
I have another Westmacott, but now I'm not sure I'll read it, if they all get bogged down in religion and philosophy.
This is my favorite Westmacott novel so far. The craftsmanship of the writing and plot are not as polished as Absent in Spring, which I deem her best, but it possesses certain elements which bring it close to my heart. The story dramatizes the nature of romantic love, and also offers insight about teaching as a vocation. It has some elements of a third-rate romance novel and the plotting is rather clunky, but Westmacott's (i.e., Agatha Christie's) very genuine human sympathy and insight shine through and cause its faults to recede.
Agatha Christie has done a deep interrogation of human nature and the result is as fascinating as her crime fiction. She explores 'how much love is too much', 'how much should one interfere to steer the loved ones back to the right path' , 'and right from whose perspective?' in this beautifully written novel about 2 sisters.
Excellent work
Then it went downhill really fast when the character Llewellyn was introduced.I am a non-religious person, and I am rarely into any plotlines in novels regarding religious philosophizing and how deeds of people are seen from a religious point of view.
I was intrigued by Laura's and Llewellyn's moral debates about how Laura's past deeds played a role in what happened later to people in her surroundings...
but in this case, I sort of expect me, the reader, to have an "uh-huh!" sort of revelation moment, when I start thinking that "OK, from what I read about this and this person, this theory MAKES SENSE"...
This is my third Mary Westmacott novel (I've already read Absent In The Spring and Giant's Bread both of which I would recommend over this one) and sadly I have to say that if this had been my first encounter with Agatha Christie's psychological novels than I possibly wouldn't have bothered with reading any of the other five.First of all: the synopsis for this book lies.
Towards the middle of the book the story gets a little bit too mundane but all-in-all I believe that if Christie had continued this story about the suffocating sisterly love, then we could have ended up with a very enjoyable read.
Or rather, with a crime, although it happens at the end and the murderess marries the good Guy.Laura Franklin is a poor second child.
Parents love only the older brother.
Along comes new baby sister.
Parents love new baby.
Laura wants to kill the little one but instead saves it from death in flames.
Little sister marries bad guy and is not happy.
Bad guy has a lot of affairs and is lazy.
Bad guy gets polio.
Bad guy dies and little sister marries again.
Yes, she had poisoned the bad guy.Vintage Christie.
Every page you expect the murder only it never comes.
He will marry Laura.
I've been re-reading Christie's Mary Westmacott books this past year and The Burden has come out as one of my least favourites.
How things play out between the two siblings forms the rest of the story.Where it goes haywire is when Christie tries to loop too many things together and sketch out a back story for every character - it all ends up being, well - sketchy.
If you are just starting out with the Westmacott books, leave this one for the last.
It was difficult to close the cover of this novel knowing that I had now finished reading the six (6) romances that Agatha Christie had published using the pseudonym of Mary Westmacott.
I have always been a fan of Agatha Christie's mysteries and had only learned this winter of the romance titles.
That said, I know I will not hesitate to read these novels again - not for the romance of the stories - but for some of the language which one can become absorbed in musing.
I'm so glad that I didn't miss the experience of reading this aspect of Agatha Christie's writing.
The most fascinating thing about this particular novel was how she managed to create a series of characters that are all utterly unhappy in their own peculiar ways.
It's far from being perfect but it is fascinating to read to see what Christie would come up with outside of her mysteries.Of course the Gothic romance style cover of my particular edition is beautiful but deceiving.
The novel features the years 1926-1956 (if I remember correctly) in snapshot form and mainly focuses on two sisters and their relationship with each other over the years and some of the men in their lives.
I didn't know that our LOVE could also be a burden on others,till i read this book.
Laura as the second child,hates her brother Charles who is the first born and is loved by all due to his charm and mischief.
She was happy when Charles dies of polio as she would be loved by her parents,but then comes Shirley,her younger sister.
Laura hates her and prays to god for Shirley's death.
The day when her house catches fire,Laura instinctively rescues the baby and from then on her hate turns to love on her sister.
I am reading Mary Westmacott for the first time. the first half of the book was exciting but some part it was difficult to connect as I gradually came to the end it made sense. The book was a nice read. Tells a lot about human nature and quite heart touching. I liked the character of the Laura. It's a good weekend read.
I am not sure what was the point of this book. The first 2 parts were good. But the third last part was painfully dragging and uttrerly boring. Meh.
Read everything from Agatha Christie including Mary Westmacott books, but not this one. I put two stars only because I respect the immense author, but I had really difficulties to finish it.
I liked the book. The characters could be more defined, many years pass without knowing anything about them, but maybe it is not necessary.
Un legame nato sotto i peggiori auspici ma diventato in poco tempo solido, quasi asfissiante.Shirley
Laura não fica feliz quando sua irmãzinha Shirley nasce, mas logo se apaixona intensamente pela bebê dez anos mais nova que ela e resolve dedicar sua vida a fazer de Shirley uma pessoa feliz.
Quando Shirley cresce, Laura se preocupa com suas relações amorosas, levantando a questão de qual seria a linha que ela não poderia cruzar.
Até que ponto podemos amar uma pessoa e deixar esse sentimento interferir na vida dela?Laura é uma personagem fascinante, especialmente quando criança.
Novamente Christie se supera ao descrever crianças, tornando-as tão ou mais complexas que os personagens adultos.
É a primeira vez que leio uma obra da Agatha Christie que não seja um policial ou um crime.
Gostei muito mais da primeira metade, até dos dois primeiros terços.
Devo admitir que o último terço deste livro foi super difícil de ler exactamente pelos razões que expressei antes.
Acho que se a temática não tivesse feito esse desvio tão claro, ou seja, se a meio do livro a autora não tivesse decidido que queria abordar temas completamente distintos e do foro místico o livro teria continuado bom e interessante.
Devo admitir que foi um pouco uma desilusão pois esperava muito mais desta autora.
Though this is the first Agatha Christie novel I chose to read, I was aware that this is different from the thrilling crime novels by the author.Still ,I was expecting Henry getting murdered by Laura out of jealousy and was predicting similar possible scenarios while reading.But it turned out to be an interesting book detailing the different shades of human nature with a great deal of philosophy in every conversation.
It questions the pointless pursuit of happiness, how absurd is the 'right' decisions we take, out of the generalization that is accepted as true.
My goodness.Maybe it's just my distaste for romance, but this has got to be the most boring book I've ever read.
I don't know, a lot of my recent reads have been adventure novels and philosophical novels with spritzes of romance within them and I enjoyed those a lot, so I thought I'd give this one a go.
I tried to just go on and read it for the sake of finishing the book, but the characters are all one-dimensional with little going on in their lives...to be honest, I just gave up at the 4/5 mark.When it comes to Agatha Christie, I'd stick to the mysteries.
Agatha Christie wrote a bunch of non-mysteries under the name Mary Westmacott.This one is pretty good!
I read Christie novels for the puzzle aspect, not for the characterization, so I wasn't sure I would like this.
I cared about what happened to the characters, though the structure of the story meant that some characters weren't mentioned for 40 or 50 pages at a stretch.The cover of the new edition is very attractive.
The cover of the book I have is quite dated.
They always had a picture of a girl in front of a castle." And that's what's on the cover of the book I have .
