https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574034.Matched_Pearls
Id love to think it was a true story maybe there is a person to whom, maybe not in all details, but it is a true testimony.Connie is a playful girl who knows her limits of course but still is a bad sinner and even worse after she mocks God's vows for a string of matched pearls.
The way the events run in this book like a perfect string of pearls makes me think of the verse in Romans 8:28 and realize that nothing happens by chance in life.
We think they just pass on a wind never realizing that our words may well haunt someone's dreams.
On her break she comes home and finds out that her grandmother has given a different condition for Connie to receive the matched pearls she was going to give her for graduation.
Now it seems the only way to get the pearls are to join the church!
The young man who had joined the church at the same time comes one day bearing a package of flowers for her.
She wasn’t such a bad person!Connie goes back to college and tries to forget about Seagrave, but his searching brown eyes haunt her from time to time.
Connie attends a dance with a handsome young man she has never met before.
Such a beautiful story of the saving grace of God and the happiness and joy he promises if we will only give our lives to Him. Constance Courtland is a rich college girl more interested in her social calendar than her relationship with God. What she does want though is her grandmother’s heirloom matched pearls.
At church during her confirmation, Constance meets Seagave.
He's such an honest sincere person from day one and nothing like the men Connie knows as he proclaims Gods great promises.
She knows now more than ever what a sinner and a hypocrite she is.The book includes beautiful descriptions of nature: weather, breezes, flowers, etc.
This book really dragged for me, and I didn't really care for any of the characters except the little brother, whose name I've already forgotten. I appreciated the message of salvation but I just didn't enjoy the story.
She can’t help but to see his disapproving eyes as she tries to continue her life as before.Will Connie be able to get his condemnation out of her head or will she finally realize that she’s a sinner & give in to The Almighty?Hott Review:What I liked: I enjoyed that this book really puts you on the spot.
It makes you take an honest look not just at what you’re doing but why you’re doing it.What I didn’t like: In some ways this book was a bit shocking.
I read this and many of her other books a long, long time ago but this was the one that stuck in my memory the best.
I remember...
a lot that would be considered as spoilers and I just had to delete.I also remember thinking that I couldn't wait to finish one book so that I could start another.
I loved her writing and would stay in the library after school was over so that I could finish one book and then take another home with me.I think I'll reread her novels, maybe I'll like them again now.
This book was a delight and a treat. Such a surprise as I turned the pages, I am impressed with this author, and shocked it's taken 9 years to discover her! I loved how well she captured the snobby, college girl attitude....how the bits of detail came back under her own internal microscope, as she realized, for example, that her grandmother wasn't a fake christian, she truly did know the Lord and wanted the same for her!
I recently rediscovered Grace Livingston HIll's books and I've been enjoying them. Matched Pearls was an enjoyable story about a girl's journey from total self-absorption to saving faith in Christ. I like the simplicity of the author's style and characters. And I appreciate the way she communicates spiritual truths through the story. A fun and uplifting read. =)
I love her books.
Grace Livingston Hill is my guilty pleasure...
Great book that explains the blessing of the gift of salvation and how we can all obtain it, no matter what we've done or how unworthy we feel!
From there her journey becomes painful and complicated as she learns what it means to live that lie.Oh yes, the melodrama is rich and deep, especially in the college story which calls upon pathos and a certain amount of 'just desserts' but even that, as heavy handed as it is, rings with a certain truth that we'd like so much to deny.
Maybe Grace preaches a little too obviously - but to the reader who is struggling, perhaps obvious is at times necessary to drive home the desire lesson?I loved how deep and complex the plot of this particular story was.
InspirationalThis author's books have answered many lifelong questions held in my heart. Through her simple way of explaining complex questions I have learned how to become a Christian through faith.
I love this book. I must have read it at least 10 times.
