https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/628139.Sea_Swept
3.5*.
But I think it's the fact that they were once all troubled boys who were saved by two good people who instilled in them a sense of family, love, and loyalty that lasted even when they were grown and their adopted parents gone.Sea Swept tells the story of the first of those boys, Cameron.
I first read this book years ago, but it's one that stands out in my mind and one I like to go back and reread once in a while, especially when I want a great romance and family story.I love heroes that are rough-edged and Cam is definitely that.
It's a shame, since I have tons of her books waiting to be read adorning the shelves, and I know she's a popular and prolific writer who dishes out so many books per year witchcraft may actually be involved.Thankfully Sea Swept is a huge improvement over the predictable, formulaic Montana Sky I read in January.
Fortunately as a social worker she didn't irritate me too much since she saw right away their situation was the best for the boy and didn't fight it.
I work as a paper grunt in social services, so I know case managers are so busy they don't have all that time to spend with one child who is in a good situation without concerns.
3.5 stars.A nice read but nothing overwhelming. I think the reason that this did not "wow" me more is that it didn't have the "suspense/mystery" element that that other books that I have read by her had!  A champion boat racer, Cameron Quinn traveled the world spending his winnings on champagne and women. But when his dying father called him home to care for Seth, a troubled young boy not unlike Cameron once was, his life changed overnight ...    “You don’t want to get in the habit of overusing
But when his dying father called him home to care for Seth, a troubled young boy not unlike Cameron once was, his life changed overnight ...
“You don’t want to get in the habit of overusing the word “fuck” as an adjective.
You’ll miss the vast variety of its uses.”
Sick and tired of telling myself fun and gamescould be enough.
Not nearly, and I want you out"He felt the temper and panic that had gripped him ease back into delight.
And somehow he'd ended up exactly where he needed to be.The only thing missing was Anna.
Not sexual tension, there was tons of that, but conflict.
I mean, it's a story of boy meets girl, girl likes boy, they start dating, having sex and then realizing it was more serious than they first thought.
Add to that a super cocky heroine who she alone knows what to do in any case, who's managed to fight all sorts of personal deamons and become a strong, sexy woman (view spoiler)[(I really can't see a rape victim -especially at so tender an age- being so sexually confident as a grown up) (hide spoiler)], a heroine who can do no wrong and I'm done.
Plus, besides the tons of sexual tension, I couldn't see the love between those two.
Ray and Stella Quinn saved 3 broken, terrified, wounded, jaded teenagers, gave them home, accepted them in their family and helped them become something in life - become people who could stay alive without doing horrid things to survive or being subjected to the cruel torture and whims of their abusers.
Assessing the situation, and understanding that Cameron was terribly abused by his own father, Ray and Stella accepted, healed and took care of their first son - Cam. And now, the only thing he wishes to do is live fast - drive fast, have fast relationships, be fast, and never be in one place.
Anna is a caring woman who falls hard and fast for Cam and his whole family, but as with Cam, I didn't develop a deep connection to her.Most of the time, I felt like Cam and Anna's romance was secondary to other events in the story.
Ms. Roberts may end up being one of those authors I pick up occasionally rather than reading obsessively, but in any case, Sea Swept was sufficiently good enough to draw me into the Quinn family's lives and make me want to continue with the series to see how the story plays out, especially since Ethan's book is next.
Quick fix doesn't necessarily need to be shallow as well.
I know there are good romantic writers out there, just I haven't had my luck.
And the fourth brother SETH, with his upper DC class girlfriend Drusilla.
And Seth is like - new Jackson Pollock.
And then Roberts tries to be smart as hell, and she starts writing about Seth's paintings.
In Paris you’ll paint Eiffel tower, because you know, c’est la vie.
Because you really have to be a dumbass to like it so much to give it more than 2 stars.
I'm going thru yet another Nora Roberts "phase" and reading her books again.I have always loved this series and Cameron's HEA is one of my favorites.
Playboy boat racer who is suddenly faced with great changes in his life, after his adopted father's death.Nora Roberts writes the most amazing family sagas and this is one of those.
Three troubled teenagers who are adopted by the Quinn's who are having to deal with Seth, who was in the process of being adopted before the tragedy.I loved the social worker, Anna.
I felt myself liking all the Quinn brothers, though I have to admit I loved Cameron.
She was the perfect match for Cameron who like her knows how to hold his ground.
Their brotherhood was actually my favorite part in the story, more than the romance between Cameron and Anna (and I absolutely loved those two).God, I feel like I wrote a lot, haha.
All that's left to say is that I highly recommend this book to those romance readers who are not only looking for a story about two people falling in love, but also about the importance of family.
¡Me ha encantado! Todo, la trama es súper interesante y se irá desarrollando durante toda la serie. Los personajes están súper bien construidos, todos con sus propias cualidades y personalidades marcadas. Cada uno empieza evolucionar de manera distinta y rápido por los acontecimientos de la historia. Este es el libro de Cam y Anna y los dos son divertidos, con sus inseguridades pero se complementan muy bien. Ahora viene Ethan, que no me cabe duda que será genial.
Together, Cameron, Ethan and Philip must come together to honor their late father's dying wish.
The last thing he is ready to do is move back into the home in St. Chris where he & his "brothers" grew up in after the Quinn's took them in.
To his surprise, next thing he knows, Cam is startled to realize that not only is he falling hard for Miz Spinelli, but he is also warming to his new little brother, Seth.
Again, I love these types of stories and Nora Roberts definitely knows how to deliver.
This felt like a surface book to me.
The characters had very little development, and Anna and Cam had no chemistry at all, so I have no idea why the got together.
Anna was annoying and got mad every two seconds for no reason.
Anna's sob story did not ring true, and felt fake and forced, as if put there to make her seem real, when it had the opposite effect.
Cam's sob story was never discussed; it just loomed in the distance for basically no reason.
I felt nothing for the characters, as they seemed like cardboard cut-outs.
*Review without spoilers* “Don’t mix up who I am and what I am,” she told him quietly. “You have to be honest with me, or the rest of it means nothing.”He was on his knees on the platform as he spoke, using his hands to show her. And still leaving her in the dark.But it didn’t matter whether she understood the technique he described or not. She understood him. He might not realize it yet, but he had fallen in love with this place, and with the work he would do here. This was at least my fourth r
And still leaving her in the dark.But it didn’t matter whether she understood the technique he described or not.
Each book has one love story but the general arc of the series revolve around ten years old Seth and the Quinn brothers relationship.
Once there, dying Ray Quinn asks him and his two brothers to take care of Seth, the last damaged boy he was in the process of adopting.
Seth broke my heart but it was so beautiful to see him opens up to his new guardians/brothers and I loved his relationship with Cam.
There are all the obligatory elements: a family with issues, dark pasts, precocious kids, cute dogs, a small town.
He couldn't stay in charge like this.
Couldn't be expected to live like this forever.
Also, the author for some reason felt the need to give the heroine a sad past, but didn't bother to include it in a more organic way.
It turned out that, though I like the J.
D. Robb books, I need to stay away from the Nora Robers ones, since they're jut not my cuppa.So much for "short and to the point".
And that expectation stands—it's a good story and I cared about most of the characters and the setting is outstanding.But I kind of hated Cam. He's a selfish jerk from start to finish and he gets things his own way, far, far too often.
Enough so that if it hadn't been for the internal dialogue letting me know that Anna did really want it I'd have been entirely thrown out of the story.
Indeed, Cam actions could often be seen as either brusquely interested or creepy stalker based solely on Anna's reaction.So I cared about the story, setting, brothers, and Seth.
*sigh* It's not that he's not handsome, exciting and sexy but he can be a bit dense when it comes to love.
Cam rushes home to find his father was in the process of adopting another troubled boy.
Now Cam and his two brothers have to raise Seth.
Unfortunately this is another romance where I would have kicked the hot guy to the curb no matter how much he groveled.
😡!  Anyway, she gets past it since she figures their affair will be ending soon and he's hot.
When he finally realizes he's in love and grovels sufficiently, their HEA is beautiful.
I am re-reading all of my older Nora Roberts books and eventhough they are totally predictable and lack real depth, I just love them.They make me feel good every single time I read them and I will be re-reading them for years!
The two end up kissing with passion and declaring their lust for each other, and they pretty much agree that they'll have sex some time soon.I would expect that sort of bold seduction from Cam, but I cannot see how a social worker who takes her job seriously would engage in professional misconduct with a man she barely knows.During their next encounter, Cam says something Anna doesn't like, so she storms off in a rage.
I assume it is just romance novel shorthand to saying none of those other women mattered to him but this one he cares about.Anna tells him she'll never want to mix sex and guilt.From this simple yet ambiguous statement Cam figures out she's been raped.
*buddy listening with Blacky <333*Here's the link to my previous review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
For some reason this book got cleared off my "Read" shelf so I am just putting it back. I don't remember my original review, just that I loved it.
Seeing Cam caring for Seth causes Anna to fall in love with Cam. I liked all the relationships in this story.
That might be true, but if you don’t mind setting that aside, it’s a good story.STORY BRIEF:Ray Quinn became the foster dad to three troubled teens, Cam, Phillip and Ethan.
Just before he died he asked the three men to move back home and take care of Seth, a troubled 10-year-old boy that Ray was hoping to adopt.
The second story is about Anna and Cam developing a romance.
This is your typical romance novel and I like romance novels ONLY when I'm in the mood for one.
Made me feel good.
This being the first in a series, I'm not sure I will jump on the next one until I'm in the mood for more romance.
The Quinn's, Cameron, Phillip and Ethan, have promised their dying father that they will take care of the newest member of the Quinn's, Seth, who is 10 years old.
An abused young child who simply got caught in the crosshairs of a vindictive college student who blackmailed the Mighty Quinn.
Three brothers, one house, one young wild child.
I loved this book! I'm glad I decided to read it after seeing Isis_FG's review of it. The interaction between the brothers was wonderful and, in my opinion, made the whole story worthwhile. I felt the romance between Cameron and Anna actually came second place to the story of the Quinn family and that was the perfect way it should be. It's about Cameron finding his true path in life and embracing it. And, of course, he finds love for Anna and Seth too. I'm anxious to read the rest of the series.
3.5 stars. A light and simple contemporary romance with interesting characters. I plan to continue on to the next in the series. Oddly, this book is classified as a paranormal which it is not. Well, there is a possible conversation or two with a ghost, but that can't make a book a paranormal, can it?
Now my TBR pile runneth over, and I couldn't be happier!Having lived inland my whole life, reading about life on the bay was fascinating, it sounds (and looks from what I can tell) beautiful.Coastline viewCrab ShacksWildlifeAerial viewThe kind of life described is idealistic, but I like that NR shows it's not always the case.
Most of us all want to find love, all of us come from some kind of family - good, bad or indifferent - and we all exist in our own worlds, we all just approach life in different ways, and reading romances is an entertaining way of seeing how other people live.
And it's always immensely satisfying.To give some background, you have the Quinns (Ray and Stella) who, though they couldn't have children of their own, made a family out of three unwanted boys.
Gave them family, love, care, and a future.When Cam is in Monaco after winning a big race he gets an urgent fax from his brother, Come home quick, dad's in the hospital.
It's definitely male-centric, focused on the brothers perhaps a bit more than the romance, but there's more than enough romance in this series and the relationship of Cameron, Ethan, Phillip and Seth always makes me so incredibly happy.
Originally posted on Gone With The BooksSea Swept is the first book of the Chesapeake Bay Saga. It tells how three grown up men fight for their new brother, what they do and what they have to sacrifice to achieve their goal: to keep their fathers legacy alive.Nora Roberts has a very unique way of telling stories. Sea Swept is no exception. With sensitiveness and a fine humor, this novel shows every aspect, a reader wants to see in a good book. Sea Swept is the very wonderful and beautiful writte
It tells how three grown up men fight for their new brother, what they do and what they have to sacrifice to achieve their goal: to keep their father´s legacy alive.Nora Roberts has a very unique way of telling stories.
Sea Swept is the very wonderful and beautiful written story about Cameron Quinn and his fight for Seth, the youngest in the Quinn family.
A wonderful novel about loyalty, love and family bonds and three handsome men and one teenage boy who have to deal not only with the loss of their father, but also the avarice of a heartless mother, who wants nothing more but money from her son.A book I highly recommend.
He made an impression on me as rude, selfish and blithe sonofabitch.
But eventually, I flushed those impressions down the drain.
He's just a lost-in-his-own-way family-oriented type of person.Ethan Quinn, on the other hand, was a mysterious one.
He harbors in his past which led him to believe he shouldn't have a family of his own.Opposite to Ethan is Phillip Quinn.
After reading this series, I can vouch this is a must-read because it opens us to the harsh realities of life but it also makes us believe that alongside, life has its way to keep us holding on.
I am also concerned that Anna's supervisor didn't intervene and/or fire her for messing around with the man aspiring to be her charge's guardian.
The whole book long, I was waiting for Anna to get in trouble, but it was like Anna was operating in a universe where her job didn't even exist.
Roberts would've found some other way to create tension, and the setup (ANY setup) would've been more believable.Anna & Cam's romance was similarly hard to take seriously.
I found the story of the Quinn family more compelling and believable, and the romance just obscured it.
This seems to be a pattern in Roberts's books -- interesting situations, unrealistic romances.
