https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365006.The_Oath
The only thing during this portion of the book that keeps Peretti from achieving the standard of writing set by horror authors like Stephen King and Dan Simmons is that Peretti isn't quite as good at writing his minor characters; as with a lot of lesser lights in the horror genre, Peretti sets up some of his minor characters with the "I'm going to die in a few pages" signs on their foreheads and then leads them to their grisly ends.
And while this makes the book suffer, it's a forgivable thing, especially when the book is as fast-paced and readable as this one is.Also in those first four hundred pages, before I start firing off criticisms at the end, Peretti does a great job with his symbolism and the obvious points he's trying to get across.
I found this book at a campsite in the mountains of Wyoming...expecting it to be a horror novel about murder in the mountains.... Turned out to be a horror novel with an evil monster lurking in the mountains. Needless to say, when I got to the end, all of the pages were ripped out. So I had to wait until the next day to go to the library to finish the last fifty pages. Damn that mountain man that used the ending of the book to keep the fire alive...
This book proves that Frank Peretti is the Stephen King of Christian fiction.
I think I read this one in about a day and a night.
I was worthless for the whole time I was reading it because I couldn't put it down.
I read it while my husband was away on a business trip and then I wouldn't put it down until I finished it because my imagination about what might happen next creeped me out more than continuing to read it.
So I read it until moving into the larger of the wee hours of the morning.
None of the reviews I’ve seen attempt to judge Oath on its merits as a thriller—only as a Christian thriller.
My guess is that Frank Peretti converts about as many non-Christians as Ann Coulter converts Democrats.So, judged on its merits as a thriller, Oath is dreck.
No wonder so many of his Christian readers are disturbed by his descriptions of sin!
Peretti wrote Oath so neither he nor his readers would ever again tragically miss an opportunity to judge their friends and neighbors.
It’s a Christian thriller, I swear—about the end of times, no less.
Peretti is generally viewed as the dean of supernatural fiction writers in the commercial "Christian fiction" market (which he was largely single-handedly responsible for opening up to this genre).
Although I haven't read any of his other work, I'd be inclined to say that he deserves his stature in the field.
I love this book. I read it many years ago right after it first came out, but for me it remains the quintessential classic Christian fiction. Peretti's dragon is a great analogy for how sin blends in around us and works almost unseen until it devours us.In my opinion this book is Frank Peretti's best work--and I have read a lot of his books. Great storytelling with a great message.
The first 1/3 of the book is very interesting; then, as I read it, I found myself falling asleep through the next 1/3.
But the last 1/3, when all the ends start tying up and the pieces fall into place, I literally could not but the book down.
The author did an excellent job describing the mountainous area in which the story takes place.
When I first read this book, I was a young teenager and too distracted by all the excitement to grasp the message.
I don't know how I ended up with this book on my shelf, but I'm a fan of horror and monster stories, so I obviously picked up a used copy somewhere along the way.
(Not the edition I own, at any rate.)The book started out okay.
The prose was tedious, lots of telling instead of showing, but it wasn't all bad, so I kept going.
Wasn't until the third act that it became clear it's all about being saved.
I guess I'll give it two stars instead of one, because I did make it 2/3 through before I started skimming.
The first half of the book really was quite good and hooked me pretty fast. Then things started getting preachy (I didn't realize Peretti was a Christian author). Stripped of the religion, this could have been a very good book. There were some other complaints I had - namely, characters start acting erratic and oddball with no real explanation or reason. I will say, if you're a fan of Horror and Christian authors, you'll really enjoy this, I do give Peretti credit as a good writer, where things weren't too preachy, the story was quite enjoyable.
I've never read Frank Peretti's stuff before and had no idea he was a prolific Christian author, so when I got a mouth full of Jesus in the middle of a book about a dragon who eats a bunch of people, I wasn't happy.
There were hints here and there about the overarching Christian theme, but I don't have any inherent problems with that.
He wags that finger extra hard if you are.Beginning of the third act is where things get really uncomfortable.
After I finished reading the damned (ha ha) thing, I reread the summary.
There is a little bit of everything in this book.
A bit of romance, action, mystery, thrill, fear, and of course a good moral & lesson in the end.
I was able to read this novel for hours and never grow tired.
I was about 13 or 14 when I first read this book.
I was about 13 or 14 when I first read this book.
I saw it on my parents bookshelf and wanted to read it because the artwork on the cover was so mysterious I wanted to be able to place a story behind that picture.
The Oath tells the story of a town with so many secrets that people are beginning to die because of them, but maybe this has been going on for a while.
The Oath itself is a little difficult to grasp, but it seems that the people of this town have collectively decided to do whatever they want at any time and never speak of it, proudly defying the notion of consequence or sin.
I think what I liked best about the book was how real it seemed.
The Oath is a gift given by my dear husband last year (a little trivia: Gian is a Peretti fan too.
Despite its thick volume, this book is a very engaging read, especially for me who always love a good mystery story.But more than just a story of suspense and mystery, The Oath is actually about sin and Peretti, in his ingenuity, decided to give a tangible form to it.
In his Introduction in the book, Peretti started with this line: “Sin is the monster we love to deny.”Continue reading.
Definitely one of my all time favorite books! I love F. Peretti's writing style! Usually his books have me captivated from the very first chapter and keep me captivated even late through the night (Something I really try not to do for my family's sake. Mommy-zombie is someone I try to avoid to be at all costs!). This book has all I love in a good suspense book: ancient mystery, supernatural stuff, realistic setting and characters, a great Christian message and even … a dragon!
We all have our dragon..."I admit I'm not sure what I think of this story.
Is this our standard for Christian reading?No, there was not very much sexual content, but I think I should be able to pick up a book from a mainstream Christian fiction author (not an only-by-mouth "Christian"- an author that writes novels that have a good message and ending involving Christ's light overcoming darkness; Frank Peretti, for example) and not have to discourage my 15 year old brother from reading it because of the sexual refrences.
I mean, the hero is hunting a freaking invisible being that marks people in a way that causes them to go crazy, and then eats them!It starts out with this woman running hysterically through the woods until she is discovered by a logger, and she attempts to attack his truck.
But just what was it?That's where it begins to get really interesting.From attempted murders and ancient oaths, to tracking a beast that just might be tracking you, The Oath is an excellent, thrilling story.On a more philosophical level, the story is an excellent allegory of how sin "eats us".
Really good.
Really creepy, but really good.I won't say too much, since this book is hard to explain without giving spoilers, but I will say that  The Oath  is a deep, thought-provoking novel with a theme that sticks with you long after you've read the final page.
It's creepy, as in don't-read-before-bed creepy, and is definitely not a fun, light read.
But I love how Frank Peretti isn't afraid to include overt Christian themes in his books.
*Content Note: two characters have sex outside of marriage (nothing graphic is described), but it is made clear that doing so was wrong.
"Do not meddle in the affairs of dragons, for you are crunchy and good with ketchup." All silliness aside, I like how Peretti used the dragon as a metaphor showing how we can be enslaved by our sins. And the townspeople made me so mad! They were too stubborn to change their ways even though it was clear that they were going to (view spoiler)[be eaten (hide spoiler)] if they didn't. Which makes me wonder: how many of us are like that in real life? Now I'll have to chew on that for awhile...
It was a fast paced story and a good reminder of how sin can get it's hook into our heart. This would make a great movie with an opportunity for awesome special effects!
AHHHHH! Don’t read this if you dream what you read. Lol The allegory of what sin can do to your life in this book is very powerful. When ignored, sin can become a huge monster, slowly drawing you in, until it’s too late. This is one of those books you could read many times and get something new out of it each time. Absolutely phenomenal
Professor Steve Benson, comes to the town of Hyde River because his brother, Cliff, has been killed by some enormous animal that seems to defy description.
She grew up in Hyde River but seems to have some objectivity about troubles in the town, and she doesn’t believe that it was a bear that killed Cliff Benson.What has happened to Maggie Bly, wife of Harold Bly?
What are the ominous, dark, oozing sores that appear over the hearts of many in the town?What follows it the depiction of evil and what it does to a people.
Hrm...Let me just begin with the fact that I was not happy with this book.
It had a very enveloping premise and I poured through half of it in half a school day (yes, it was so engrossing of a beginning that I read it during class).
Do you mean to tell me that the heart of this supposed thriler/mystery is this demonic embodiment of sin in the form of a black draconic crocodilian?
And do you mean to tell me that all you have to do to become immune to its hold is to confess your sins to Jesus?
Don't get me wrong, I really like Frank Peretti.
I've had recordings of him speaking, I've read several of his books.
I think The Visitation is an incredibly good book.Unfortunately I can't say the same about this one.
I didn't even finish it (I almost put "couldn't finish it", but I suppose I could have forced myself.
This might have worked better as a youth book.
if I go deeper into why, I'll give the BIG secret away, but it really doesn't work here (I don't think).
As I said, maybe this plot device would work better as a youth book.
Should have done some research on this author before buying the audible version. As soon as I realized the answer to the problem was Jesus, I couldn't go on.
Peretti at his best. Deep characters with authentic issues and real resolutions.An absolute must read.
Very scary.
If this was just a book about good vs evil, I may have been able to enjoy it more. But when a dragon gets tossed in the mix, I just had a hard time getting on board with this storyline. I found myself cheering for the dragon and hoping the whole town would be wiped out. Not the response the author was probably trying to achieve.
El concepto no es nuevo empero sí que lo es el punto de vista desde el cual el autor aborda los temas tratados.El libro resulta, a pesar de lo atractivo que pudiera resultar la historia, monótono y por momentos sumamente aburrido.
La misma tiene como punto alto los últimos 4 capítulos, pero no sé si eso es suficiente para salvar a una novela de casi 600 páginas.
No digo que sea un mal autor pero, por el momento he tenido suficiente de Frank Peretti
There were lots of dull moments in this book, places with absolutely no action whatsoever.
I don't mind the aspect of God and sin in books at all, but you can't just say "oh, you need to find God or you are gonna die".
When this book did not have action to it, it was quite dull.
It may be the worst, but I've read so many books that I cannot remember.
If you don't mind books with long spaces without action and God suddenly thrust upon you, then knock yourself out with reading it.
One of my favorite Frank Peretti books that I’ve read several times, The Oath is a great combination of a thriller, supernatural suspense, and spiritual allegories.Trouble starts in the small, Northwestern mining town of Hyde River, a place that has a big, dark secret that began with the city’s founding fathers.
Can Steve and local deputy Tracy Ellis hunt down the predator, or will they be marked as the next victims?Overall, a frightening, compelling, and thought-provoking read.*Although Christian fiction, there are sexual situations that may not be appropriate for younger audiences.
