https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/608823.Winter_Wheat
Most remarkable for a reader growing up in a mid-century rural community, the novel evokes vividly the seasonal rounds of living and working on a farm circa 1940.
Though Montana was her adopted home (Walker grew up in eastern Pennsylvania and attended Wells College), she writes with an intimate knowledge of farm work that is rare in literature.
Also remarkable is the novel's wartime setting, as Walker writes of Pearl Harbor and the impact of entry into WWII on the lives of her characters, even while that war was still being fought (the novel was published in 1944).
Very Willa Cather-esque novel of a young girl coming of age in Montana. At first I was frustrated with the pace of the novel, but later came to appreciate it. Amazing how great authors can take some ordinary people in ordinary circumstances and turn them into something beautiful. I was in tears through almost all of Part Three. Spoiler alert: I loved how Ellen came around to appreciating her parents, even with their flaws and fallibility. And who doesn't love a great opening sentence? "September is like a quiet day after a whole week of wind."Superb stuff!
It's closer to 3.5 star and if you are in love with wheat country wide plains Montana solitude, it will be a 4 star plus for you.Beautiful, lyrical- almost to mystic chapter upon chapter of the Wheat Ranchers' lives in the harrows- rut to rut.
The father (Vermont raised) is "old" (daughter's descriptive adjective) at 40 and her Mother is from Russia.
The Dad moved her to Vermont and then to Montana eventually.
And yet, as sturdy and solid as these Montana characters are, they hold a spell which, to me, does not push my urgency to want to know "what happens next".
I love the inner voice of the narrator/protagonist. And the imagery of the hard winter wheat.
This was a beautiful, enjoyable read that I could not put down.
The description (a girl from a dry-wheat ranch in Montana goes to college, can't afford to attend the next year, becomes a teacher) didn't prepare me to like it as much as I did, but Mildred Walker's writing is a treat.
It's one of those books in which you pause to reread certain sentences purely for how beautiful they are.I thought the end became a little earnest and precious, and that it went on for a bit too long, but don't let these minor issues prevent you from reading this.
An interesting look at the life of a young girl in Montana and dry-land farming in the 1940's.
I felt that the book was an ode to the land and lifestyle, and a coming of age story.
There is a lot said about the beauty of the different seasons on the farm, and about the main character's (Ellen) struggle to decide if she wants to accept her parents (with all their perceived flaws) and her life there, or leave for love and a different life.
In the end, she learns to see her parents as they really are and also becomes more comfortable with who she is.
It took a while for this book to "grab" me, but once it did I was hooked. I loved the metaphor throughout the story of winter wheat and its comparisons to love and life. As Ellen's mom said, "That don't mean nothing. We get mad, sure! Like ice an' snow an' thunder an' lightning storm, but they don't hurt the wheat down in the ground any." (The strong, good wheat can still grow through the toughest of times.)
This is a book that is meant to be owned, loved, read and re-read.
It's beautifully written and I have never read anything that reminded me so much of the time when I was 18-19 years old.
I loved the relationships in this book and how they shifted over time, eventually returning to the same patterns but with a deeper connection and understanding between characters.
I found that this mirrored my own relationship with my parents and is likely the reason I connected with this book so completely.
Mildred Walker's writing is deceptively simple.
Walker's writing reminds me of Willa Cather or Edith Wharton.
I found myself daydreaming sometimes as I read, reliving my life as a young adult, and was actually a bit surprised as I recognized some very familiar elements of my own story.
The only drawbacks of this novel for me were that I felt about halfway through that it was moving so slowly that maybe I should stop reading, but I'm so glad I kept on.
But then I think Walker's portrayal is faithful to the way we get in repetitious and often erroneous thought patterns.
This novel has a descriptive quality that is truly remarkable.
She gets engaged and brings her fiance home to Montana where she sees her roots through his eyes - stark, barren and without love.
He breaks off their engagement.Ellen then begins to see her past through her own eyes again and recognizes what she loved about it.
She makes assumptions based on overhearing one of their bedtime conversations.The novel uses wheat as a metaphor - its seasons, colors, growth and the hopes, resignation and tenacity of wheat farmers - to describe life and experience.This is a beautifully written book, rich in language and wisdom.
Reminds me of an adult version of the Laura Ingalls Wilder stories, set at the cusp of the United States' entry into WWII. As such, it has much more nuance and focus on characters and their inner lives than just plot and adventure. But if you liked that setting, reading about the difficulty and triumph of their lives on the prairie, you might also enjoy this book.
Mildred couldn't have invented them, they are real people and they exist.**Spoiler alert**The part of the book that I keep going back to is the 6 months or so where she is completely happy.
I want to go back and read that part and close the book and not think of her purity and innocence ruined by the world, real life, war, rumors, death and everything that is waiting for her as she grows older.
Ellen takes us through the most significant 2 years of her life in Winter Wheat and I loved every word.
The title makes this book sound very boring.
However, the author is a pretty decent writer and makes an extremely boring book be a little more exciting.
I would have given this book 3 stars if I were to base it on the writing, character development and descriptions.
It reminded me of A Tree Grows in Brooklyn a little bit.
She thinks her parents don't like each other, but realize they do.
She teaches school for a bit, then doesn't.
She goes to school for a bit, then doesn't.
I felt like the book ended in the middle of a story.
“September is like a quiet day after a whole week of wind,”The opening line of Mildred Walker’s most popular novel, Winter Wheat, sets the tone for the metaphors of the farming and natural worlds that bring this book to life.After selling the dry land wheat crop in the early 1940’s at a decent price, Ellen Webb’s parents can afford to send her away for her first year of college.
Winter Wheat by Mildred Walker is a book told through the eyes of Ellen, a young woman who grew up on a wheat ranch in Montana.
Although their differences are qualitatively not like the differences between Ellen's parents, she begins to see her parents' relationship through the filter of these differences.
The changes in her perception of her parents' relationship during the two years covered by the book mark her transition from being their teenage child, with all the tumult teenagers experience in their relationships with their parents, to a mature young woman who is in some ways sadder and others much happier and wiser.
Ellen explores her love and her parent's love in this story, coming full circle in her view of her parent's relationship.
Like other commenters on this book, I really wish the author had added one more chapter about what happens to Ellen once she has learned these many lessons, but maybe she's emphasizing the depth and growth of her understanding which came to a climax at the end of the book.
That understanding will propel her forward in future relationships and schooling opportunities which were out of the scope of the book.
This is longer than usual as book club is three weeks off and I need to remember what I'm thinking.
On one hand, the descriptions of the setting are lovely-- it reminds mw of My Antonia in its love for the landscape, but it's less boring and repetitious.
But the metaphors are heavy-handed.
I grew impatient with her pining for this boy who never really wanted to know her until after the fact.
The book doesn't work for me and her angst is irritating because her big final revelation I've known all along.
Loved this book.
She describes living in Montana at the start of World War II and the difficulties of ranching and being dependent on the weather.
As I read I could picture the plants and flowers (sage, lupine, etc.) and views she was describing.
I also thought of the main character as being one of my grandmas's who were both about the same age at the time period in the book.
Times were so different then and what was expected of people was also so different.
I'd highly recommend this book to anyone living in Montana.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book about the hardships of life on a Montana wheat farm during the 1940s.
It is a coming of age story told by the ninteen-year-old only daughter of a Russian immigrant married to an American soldier during WWI.
During the year and a half she experiences her first year at college, her first love, having to leave college because of a poor harvest and a year teaching at a very small isolated one-room school house.
She experiences a range of emotions.
The writing like the country is a bit on the rough side, but it is a book I will recommend to others.
I loved this book. It reads like a classic. I loved how we really got inside of Ellen/Yelena's head. I loved the themes of what makes a good marriage, how working side by side builds up a love that means more than romantic love. I loved learning about the time period, the farm life, the significance of the two world wars in so many people's lives. Really glad someone else recommended this on Goodreads, and I really recommend it to others.
I really enjoyed this book. It is about a young woman who has lived her life on a farm in Montana. There is enough money to send her to college back east which allowed Ellen to spread her wings. It is not boring, but it feels casual and easy to read. I think I am reminded of Willa Cather's writing and that may be a reason I liked this book so much.
A simple and beautiful story about finding love and yourself. Mildred Walker is a talented writer; her storytelling reminds me a lot of Wallace Stegner (high praise from me!) and Willa Cather in "My Antonia."A true writer of the west, and I am glad to have discovered her. Thank you, CarrieLyn, for suggesting this book!
A new favorite. Gorgeously written, with characters who are so real that they make you mad and make you cry and make you turn for a fresh look at the wonderful, difficult, beautiful people in your own life. Put Willa Cather in Montana at the start of WWII, and you might get something like this book--a rich, lyrical coming of age story in which the land itself is also a character.
Amazing talented author. She captured the rugged beauty of the plains, added in the endless work on a dry land farm and carefully crafted characters you immediately cared about. Some may say it's a dark book...probably "city-slickers", but for those who lived thru ruthless heat and bone-chilling winters, it's a book of reflection, memories and hope.
Really lovely. A quiet, closely observed coming-of-age novel focused around the shifting relationship a girl has with her parents as she becomes an independent adult. Also much about hard work and simple pleasures, a deep relationship to the land, and a bit of a love story.
2.5 stars. I had a hard time getting into it. It was a very slow-moving book. I liked the author's use of metaphors throughout the book and at my book club we had an interesting discussion, which is why I gave it 2.5 instead of the 2 stars I was going to originally give it.
Thank you for this great recommendation Tami. This is written in one of my favorite settings - the Dust Bowl of the 1930's. However, the plot focuses on a young woman's perception of the strange relationship between her parents. Very interesting.
a must read of a time gone by...yet it is relevant for today. moving and profound.
A simple story, and very well told, about farming the plains of Montana. If I could, I would give it 3.5 stars. Good characters, too. I enjoyed it.
Just discovered Mildred Walker! I intend to read all of her books!!! She is that good.
