https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17498.The_Circus_of_Adventure
My kids enjoyed this. The parrot Kiki made them laugh and the dramatic improbable plot kept them engaged. Surprisingly not really about a circus at all - the circus only pops up towards the end.
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Adventure Series is 8 books long) Features 4 friends who fall into adventures with counterfeiters, gunrunners, treasure hunters and the like. Jack, Philip, Diana, and Lucy-Anne and their crazy talking parrot, KIKI, are a lot of fun to follow through their adventures... This series is top notch reading... introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
These kind of books take us back to our childhood. I just love how these 4 tackle any situation so calmly and are not scared of adventure or taking any risk. Best part about this book was how jack blended with the circus crew and rescued his cousins and the prince. And a special mention to Kiki the parrot whom one just can’t stop loving ... jack is indeed lucky to have her as his pet.Read this book and you are sure to enjoy and relate yourself with these characters.
Judul : Petualangan di Sirkus AsingPengarang : Enyd BlytonPenerjemah : Agus SetiadiCetakan : Ketiga, 2011Penerbit : Gramedia Pustaka UtamaEnid Blyton adalah seorang pengarang buku petualangan anak-anak yang memahami indahnya petualangan dan serunya kehidupan di masa kanak-kanak.
Saya sangat berharap, akan lebih banyak anak-anak yang membaca seri petualangan Lima Sekawan atau seri Petualangan karangan Enyd Blyton ini sehingga masa kecilnya sempat tersentuh oleh serunya petualangan yang sangat menyenangkan.
Tapi, kala itu, petualangan Jack, Lucy Ann, Phillip, Dinah, dan Kiki begitu menariknya sehingga saya sama sekali tidak keberatan dengan kondisi kertas yang jadul, yang penting bahasa Inggrisnya enak dibaca.
Dari 8 buku dalam seri Petualangan, saya paling suka sama novel yang ini. Lebih seru, bikin semuanya masih melekat dalam kepala saya deh.
so awesomeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeawesom eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeawesiomeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaawwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwweeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeewsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssoooooooooooooooooommmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaawwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwweeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeessssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooommmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
As always with Enid Blyton's books, this was a great story! I love the characters, especially Phillip and his ability to tame all creatures. The story was great, not every really lulling at all, but keeping the pace fast and interesting. I find it kinda funny though that they call people donkeys and the other name for such creatures interchangably!all in all this was a really great book, fun and fast while still taking time to describe their awesome meals and snacks! Here's to Enid Blyton!
Another fine entry in the series, this adventure is rather original in Enid Blyton's work because it belongs to the genre called Ruritanian romance (in reference to the Ruritania of the novel The Prisoner of Zenda), It is a very good adventure too, with memorable scenes like Jack following the kidnappers and stowing away in their plane, the daring rescue of the other children from the castle...There were two things, however, that prevent me from placing it among my favorite in the series.
This was good with the request of children asking Enid Blyton to write more adventure books, as she was going to stop at 6. With this book the the family are all together again and off for another holiday, supposedly Easter, but what surprised me was apart from the mention at the beginning of the book, Easter was not mentioned at all. It surprised me as in the era of Enid Blyton Easter would have been a very upheld holiday. Anyway the adventure is full of excitement and strange happenings throughout, so enjoy reading this outing.
I really loved Kiki! Such a great read from my first favorite author.
It was very adventures! I loved it.
Once we got to the circus it was exciting and action packed. One of the better books in the series.As always with all Blyton it looses points for racism and really pushing gender norms.
Re-reading with my daughter. What a pleasure.Love this group of adventurers the best of all Blyton's crews, even the Famous Five. "God save the King! Wipe your feet!"
My sister read this to me when I was young and I really enjoyed reading it for myself all these years later. Will give to my grandchildren.
More so since I consider the last two books the best in the series.This book has it all - quaint English countryside settings as well as exotic foreign setting, lots of excitement without any peril to their lives.
Lot of things happen in the story while maintaining a cheerful mood throughout.
His abilities here however seem more realistic compared to what was seen in Mountain of Adventure.The first part of the story is full of fun and lot of teasing and cozy family setting.
Dinah does nothing except attacking Gussy in the early part of the book.
I had an idea that the circus folk were too outlandish to be true, but as it turned out, they were fine (it must be some other Enid Blyton book which has a man who crawls through drainpipes).I also remembered once saying to my immediate family that the adventure itself was so far-fetched it made other books in this series seem quite realistic, which was only a slight exaggeration.
I know a lot of Blyton fans love this book and think it's incredibly exciting.
It takes quite a long time to get to the point (the titular circus appears about halfway through the story) but this is perfectly justified as there is quite a lot of setting up and explaining to do before the exciting pay-off can be reached.Fans of Jack will enjoy this one as it really is his story; he gets himself dumped in a foreign country and joins a travelling circus with the specific intention of saving his kidnapped family, which certainly puts a new spin on things.
Well, here is my first review for a book I read on kindle, and not a physical book!
So far, I'm loving everything about them, but I suppose I'd better review this book first.Let me say the clearness of the kindle enhanced this book for me, and the touch screen was so seamless I ate up the pages with ease.
I loved how this story was almost entirely from Jack's point of view except at the beginning and at the end.
There were less wonderful meals, and more of an actual story than normal too.
Another old favorite.
When Bill brings a young boy along with the family for the holidays, the four children can't help but wonder why.
Especially such a boy!
Gussy is a foreigner with long hair, lots of money, who is easily upset.
And they've only just recovered from that shock when late one night intruders steal into the cottage and kidnap Gussy along with Philip, Dinah, and Lucy-Ann. Jack escapes since he was out listening to owls.
But he manages to secretly tag along, and once he arrives in Gussy's home he finds a perfect hideout in a traveling circus.
A rip roaring adventure this time the gang find themselves being kidnapped and joining a circus never a dull moment in an Enid Blyton story. Enid must have had a lot of positive response to Kiki's character as her role was considerably beefed up and I love the way Enid Blyton weaves animals into the stories. And Kiki is such a gutsy character and really adds to the charm. Excellent descriptions and great dialogue keep things zipping along. This entry is one of my favourites in the series.
Oh what a fun, fun, fun book. Jack, Lucy Ann, Philip, and Dinah are annoyed when Bill announced that they will have a companion during their holiday. Gussie is a spoiled little boy but having him around leads to another adventure. The children soon learn that he is actually a Prince and gets kidnapped. His uncle is the King of another country and his enemies want to overthrow him and use the Prince as a pawn to gain power. The children and Bill soon put a stop to that!
I've read almost all the Enid Blytons books: the famous five, the five find-outers, the secret seven, you name it, but IMO this is her best. This is the book I read so many times as a kid the binding is falling apart. Enid Blyton really pulled out the big guns with this one, it has everything a kid with an overactive imagination could want in an adventure book: international intrigue, kidnapping, spies, a circus, disguises, and of course, everyone's favorite parrot Kiki.
First book of the series that I read and owned; the book was given to me for my birthday by a classmate. Until then I had not even heard of this series but I loved the story and the characters so much that I completed the series as soon as I possibly could. The other Adventure books were either given to me as a present on various occassions or bought with my limited pocket money :-)
One of my absolute favourite books. I have read and re-read this book so many times. It has everything I would want ... circus magic, Kiki!, a prince in hiding and stuff families would do for each other.
This book is very good for about 8-12 year olds its very exiting and it is about some children ho have to look after this person but there is a big reason behind them looking after him this reason causes one big adventure come and have a look.
Despite not being an avid Enid Blyton fan my Auntie gave me this series of books and I loved them and re-read them often. Less annoying than the 5 and 7 and just as predictable but strangely comforting :)
very interesting!
I have liked all these books a lot...
EB does it again.
See reviews of Island of Adventure and Castle of Adventure
