https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2679633-pleasure-unbound
Okay, so I'm actually kind of embarrassed that I gave this book four stars.Please don't lose respect for me!
Despite the seemingly cheesy concept, bad cover work and HORRIBLE name, Ione has written something remarkably readable.Allow me to demonstrate.The characters are actually interesting.
We've all been there and done that in other stories.But for once, I can actually believe that this man would be a doctor.
And he has what every sexy, rich, charming man should have:Sexy, rich, charming brothers.Which means I'm going to head off and read the next three books!
The main woman is a slayer who is killing demons like crazy and is their arch nemesis and of course it goes the other way around as well.So this wounded woman ends up in the demon hospital and the main demon dude treats her.
The next day, the demon's demon brother goes into her brain and makes her have sex dreams and hallucinations.
The main dude of course can't help himself cause he's a sex demon and proceeds to f*ck the patient while she is still wounded and having hallucinations and she has absolutely no idea who he is.
Adult Review for Erotic Content Tayla's observation : 'his magic penis'  Whoops, excuse me. I did not mean to react so strongly. I meant to reply with, "please... tell me more." So...this Eidolon guy. He kind of has magic spermies that do magic sperm-y things to a woman. If that's not going to get someone interested, then I don't know what else to say.This was fluffy, cheesy, good-time PNR and I loved every second of it. I never once rolled my eyes at the flowery sexual terms, nor did I bat an e
If that's not going to get someone interested, then I don't know what else to say.This was fluffy, cheesy, good-time PNR and I loved every second of it.
If there's one thing I expect from PNR, it's that I already know I'm going to get a yummy, smutty, ridiculously over-the-top story and that's what I crave when I reach for the genre.
Your hospital is called ugh?"She wondered if his apparently keen sense of smell would pick up the odor of her failing deodorant.Hot guy + sense of humor + smokin' hot sex + interesting world = recipe for success.
Damn, I love PNR.I-have-a-Greek-name-I'm-so-fucking-cool-and-don't-forget-I'm-HAWT-AS-HELL Eidolon comes in just as dear Buffy Tayla is thrashing in her bed, consumed by demon-manufactured lust.
You'd expect Eidolon (who just spent 3 pages blabbering on and on about his doctor's oath< spoiler>eat your heart out, Hippocrates!, his utter dedication to all patients and his all-encompassing respect for them) to kick his brother's sorry ass out of the room to protect Buffy Tayla, right?
Or like she doesn't know where she is and who the hell Eidolon might be.
So it's understandable they'd smell, but still my fragile gay boy eyes didn't need to read thatSex at 7% :( I prefer more build up before sex.
And honestly the raw vagina probably smells better than the sweaty anus I had to use the kindle dictionary to look up "labia" and that makes me wish kindle had a "gay language" so it could have said "oh girl, you don't even want to know!" Because yeah, I didn't want to know
Are you feeling emotionally blocked and bound up? Are your personal pleasures compromised by feelings of loneliness, dissatisfaction, murderous wrath? Is your sex life arid extra dry? DIAGNOSIS: Torpid Trench SyndromeTREATMENT: Treatment for TTS addresses the psychosis or delusional symptoms exhibited by lady demon-slayers. This often involves a combination of therapy and medication. Your incubus doctor may guide you through counseling, psychotherapy, or role play before a diagnosis.  COMPLICATI
DIAGNOSIS: Torpid Trench SyndromeTREATMENT: Treatment for TTS addresses the psychosis or delusional symptoms exhibited by lady demon-slayers.
In rare cases, TTS can result in being taken to a secret demon hospital, sedated and strapped down, and then gently roused and aroused by a sexy incubus doctor who really fills out his scrubs and who is tenting those loose pants of his in obvious appreciation of your assets, so no need to get uptight about that, it's a natural reaction for humans and incubus doctors alike.
If you are a lady demon-slayer and notice symptoms of TTS, seek medical help right away.
Getting treated for Torpid Trench Syndrome is crucial in maintaining a sexy lifestyle both above ground and within the Stygian depths below.SUGGESTED MEDICATION: Seminus Incubus
Your hospital is called ‘ugh?’ Oh, that’s precious.”I’m not going to go into a lot of plot detail, because honestly, there are already so many wonderful reviews out there, so I’ll just briefly share my thoughts on this book which is an awesome start to a great series.
Saving the lives of demons, vampires, werewolves and any other number of species, is all in a day’s work for Eidolon, the head of Underground General Hospital.
Your hospital is called ‘ugh?’ Oh, that’s precious.”The bottom line – If you enjoy PNR and are looking for something a little different than what we usually find in this genre, I would encourage you to give this book a shot.
Ms. Ione did a fantastic job developing this world within/around/under the regular world, where demons are the good guys.
I can't say too much about that without spoiling a person who wants to read this book.
I don't feel like a person who believes in Christianity shouldn't read this book, though.
However it makes sense if you consider the characters and their demonic type.
I wouldn't mind reading one of the demonic natural history books that Eidolon owned, in fact.
One of the things I liked about this book was how she played with the reader's perception of right and wrong.
Eidolon is a demon and a doctor and the founder of the only demon hospital.
A hospital where all lucky demons can visit, get well, not kill each other and then run free to torture more humans ....
This age is approaching and Eidolon does not want to lose his mind.
The same way some humans can be bad and this is not accepted by humans’ society, some demons can be nice and this is not accepted by demons’ society.The atmosphere of the series reminds me the TV series Angel, which I used to adore.
5 KICKASS AND JUST 'WOW' STARS!!!!I have read book 3&4 in the Demonica series before actually reading book 1 and 2. I have to say Larissa Ione has managed to knock my socks off once again!   P.S - DON'T YOU THINK THE NEW COVERS ARE SO MUCH BETTER? ;)This review is for mature readers only!!! I wasn't sure about reading Pleasure Unbound. I LOVED the 3rd one, it was my first EVER erotica book, but the 4th one was just 'ehhh' for me (FROM WHAT I CAN REMEMBER!!!). It's been ages. At first, i must
A good one at that, until things start happening to her - she can't control her movements, it's like her body is frozen.
Throughout the book she develops, and at the end becomes a strong, happy individual surrounded by a family that accepts and loves her.
But he was mostly good and loved saving demons lifes, even though it could sometimes be a real pain in the ass.
Like the one that owns the 4th book ;) (hide spoiler)]
And it wasn't just about demons, it was about brotherhood, loyalty, family and most of all love.

Interpersonally, neurosis involves dependency, aggressiveness, perfectionism, schizoid isolation, socio-culturally inappropriate behaviors, etc."I could go through each of these symptoms and point out a direct example of Tayla exhibiting each one but I won't because this review would turn into a novella.
If she'd been alone in these instances, she'd have gotten her face chewed off, which she'd likely never admit.Here's the part where you say "Okay, Litchick, if you hated her so much why did you keep reading?" I'll tell you why.
Thirdly, during the last 60 pgs Tayla pulls her head out of her ass.
I vehemently hated the female character, Tayla, for 80% of this book, possibly more.
She's stupid, whiney, angsty, emo, and super fucking annoying.
Hated so much I thought of DNF-ing it, and I might have, but I ate chocolate mousse while I read.
I liked him, he's a hot demon doctor who doesn't seen to find Tayla super annoying.
Seems he kind of did, but he still wanted to get hot with the idiot female.
The book is all about Tayla being a whiney emo and making everyone want to end her.
Eidolon is all patient & kind with her.
Larissa not only presents you characters to be satisfied for the time being but she creates persons, you just feel like you know them once you finish the books.-terrific secondary characters.Many times I have read a book and not care about any other characters than the hero and the heroine of the story, well this was definitely not the case because since page one I already knew I wanted to read a book about every single one of them and that I could never get enough.
evil both in humans and demons, all surrounding the Underground General Hospital, it's pretty interesting and entertaining.I liked the development of the romance.
Gem's story gets better and better in each book, and by the 3rd one she has had a great love story all around.Since I am an animal lover, I enjoyed that Eidolon and Tayla had their own furry pets, it was refreshing to have a dog and a weasel versus the typical cat (I don't have anything against cats, I just think it is a nice change; I am a dog person after all, and this kind of books tend to give preference to cats).Audiobook: I cannot say the narrator is bad because she is not.
Her demon-infested world will suck you in and the next thing you know...it's 2:00 a.m. and you have to get up in less than 4 hours to go to work.
Demons aren't all bad.
At 16 she saw the thing that killed her mother and it certainly wasn't a crazed human like the cops said.
But aren't all demons evil?
I liked the world.
Anyway, Ione hit a home run for me with this intricate story and I definitely plan on picking up Eidolon's brothers' stories when they are relased in March and April 2009.
It still works because the main characters are likeable.
But while a lot of these books make it the focus point and just silly, this one makes the relationship itself shine through firmer than the insta-lust.
Dare I say it's a sweet relationship?As far as paranormal romances go, this is a dark one with gritty violence, morbid histories for the characters, and disturbing torture flashbacks.
The next books follow the characters introduced here, and of course them finding their mates, which is a formula that seems to work for this kind of stuff.
Funny lines, loveable main characters, an interesting enough unique world, and some semi-erotic moments that worked.
5 stars – Paranormal RomanceThere are so many positive reviews for this series, and for very good reason. Ione's writing is original, clever, funny, and steamy and the world she created full of demons, slayers, vampires, weres, half-breeds, crossbreeds, and humans coexisting in multidimensional realms is utterly imaginative, dark, hypnotic, and sensual. Ione is definitely a fresh voice in the paranormal romance genre and her Demonica series truly stands out for its creativity and raw eroticism. Pleasure Unbound is a fascinating and sexy read...a well deserved 5 stars.
Just look at the bottom of my review *grin*---------------------------------------------------------Just wanna say :Everybody love Wraith, maybe because his bad-ass attitudeEverybody love Shade, maybe because..
But, actually all of Demonica are favorite of mine!This is my 3rd times read...And I realize something,...Wraith's book is about his change, from his bad-ass attitude to became a better person (and remember he is badly tortured at the past, so he deserved happines for his book)Shade's book is about how he deal with his curse, and his feeling to Runa..I dunno, Shade is not my favorite Sem after all, but after re-read his book, I got his"other" side, that I'd missed when first read it...Eidolon's is about prejudice...
I only got to 11% and I think I am going to stop.
In this one, there a "hot and sexy" incubus demon named Eidolon and a female demon slayer named Tayla (or something - I can't even remember or care).
(view spoiler)[Some other demon dude goes into Tayla's mind and makes her get all horny.
Then his brother comes in, makes him stop, but Tayla is still all hot and bothered.
(hide spoiler)]I think I'm just mostly over PNR.
I'm not as forgiving or lenient anymore when it comes to these typical formulas.Buddy read with the MacHalos October 16, 2015.PNR with demons??
Wow!
This was a really cool book!
Its also very hot for a mass market paperback....
Tayla is a "slayer" that hunts the bad guys; Demons, Vampires, the whole 9 yards...
until one day she ends up in a hospital with some serious injuries.
When she comes to-- she realizes she isnt in a human hospital, she's in a Demon hospital...
and her doctor is a VERY HOT demon named Eidolon.
Tayla has to figure out if demons really are as bad as she thinks they are, because she starts to feel something for Eidolon...
hes a SEX demon!
Smoking hot!
Actual rating 4.5 starsPleasure Unbound is the first book in the Demonica series, and I loved it. It was a tough beginning, trying to learn all the different characters aka demons, but the book has a glossary to help you out. You find out that the good guys aren't always good, and the bad guys aren't always bad. Sometimes, they must toe the line to help each other out.
Como introducción está pasable.Personajes interesantes, una buena historia, estilo ligero. Bueno. Pero hasta ahí.Lo que no me gustó fueron los diferentes POV en la narración. Ni tampoco que no es fácil ubicarse en la línea temporal que tiene el libro.Aún ahora no sé muy bien si todo pasó en menos de una semana o algo mas
If you compare it to Storm Born, which is another novel that is more sex than it is plot, then it's far more enjoyable and far better written.
I'm of the minority opinion that Storm Born was probably Mead's greatest failure (that I have read so far anyway) mostly because I, as a Richelle Mead fan, went into it expecting something like her Succubus series and got hastily (and poorly) put-together random monsters, mythology and a general mish-mash of nonsense.And now that I'm done ripping apart Richelle Mead, I'll get back to my point: I liked Pleasure Unbound.
But when Tayla is picked up an ambulance after being badly hurt and taken to a demon hospital who where she is introduced to Eidolon, a hot demon doctor who heals her, and discovers a few unwelcome truths about her.This books was great, I loved the idea of a demon hospital, it was like a cross between PNR and ER!
Wraith and Shade Eidolon's brothers are who had me interested and who have encouraged me carry on reading the series.
I wasn't to enarmoured of him in this book, bit now I wants him!
I can’t wait for Shade and Wraith’s books!I love love LOVE Gem!
What's so great about this series is that it's dark and brooding, but there is that light in there too.
In the beginning, she is consumed by this blind rage against all demonkind, but after she learns more about the demon world and herself, she becomes more and more open to different possibilities.
She learns this through her love with Eidolon and her developing fondness for Gem. Ione's got the skills to write the most amazing books.
I can't wait to read Eternal Rider, the first book of the new spinoff series!
Tayla becomes disgusted that she is attractive to a demon and Eidolon knows that falling for the slayer is a mistake but the good part of this book is Eidolon doesn’t let that head do his thinking…hahaThis story grabbed me right from the beginning and never let go.
Tayla is a badass heroine who can take care of herself and Eidolon is a demon who is in a race against time to find a mate.
I loved that the book doesn’t take forever to get to the fun stuff and the world building was done during the action of the story.
Everything, even the steamy seemed to have some world building going on.
In this book, demons hold jobs, have families, and lives similar to humans.
Demons are organized enough to have their own justice system, moral codes, a hospital, and the ability to live peacefully amongst humans.
Eidolon, our demon doctor has a rigid moral code while he is in the Underworld General Hospital (UGH – love the acronym!).
When an injured human demon hunter is brought into his hospital, he treats her because she is in his hospital and his moral code requires him to do so.
evil are challenged when she meets Eidolon.
I've started two new sub-genres this past week, reading one book about angels, and one about demons, and I have to say Larissa Ione's introduction into the world of demons was quite memorable!
As a warning, these books are quite explicit, although her demons are surprisingly sexy.
The world-building was phenomenol, and I loved the conflict set up between each of the brothers and also the conflict of Tayla having to decide what to do about her (view spoiler)[ being half-demon.
(hide spoiler)] Will definitely be reading on to the next book.
;)--------This book has it all; romance, sexy scenes (Who am I kidding?
They begin as purely sex partners (a word of caution: prepare thyself for some hot, scorching, graphic and somewhat mindless sex scenes) and there is a slow believable development into something more – they are not even consciously aware that they are truly and surely in the way of falling in love.
Tayla had a huge way to go from the start of the book.
Real demons.If you love steamy love scenes, romance, and the supernatural; then this book is a must for you.
