https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80660.We_Need_to_Talk_About_Kevin
Reading it is almost like self-torture under hypnotism; you don't want to do it, but once you are into it, there's no way to stop.The story is told in epistolary form, through the letters Eva Khatchadourian writes to her absent husband Franklin Plaskett.
One talks of the current time, her travails as the universally shunned mother of the infamous teen: the bereaved parents of Kevin's late classmates have slapped a civil suit on her, which she is fighting in her typically disinterested manner, and visiting her son regularly in the correctional facility where he is incarcerated.
Boring.Seeing as We Need to Talk About Kevin is famous for being such a gritty, disturbing read, I always expected to love it in a sick, twisted kind of way.
I had to force myself through one overstuffed sentence after another, only to be left feeling drained and dissatisfied.I knew I was in for a paint-dryingly slow read almost immediately.
And it was made even worse because it's an epistolary novel - I couldn't get past the fact that no one would ever talk this way in a letter.
This is the second sentence (and they are all like this):
Out of the book's 400 pages, the first 300 were kind of like pulling teeth.
of buildup, actually created a really wonderful, complete story that was very satisfying and which (god help me) made me cry out of a bizarre sense of *happiness* at the end.This book is a series of letters (irritating) written from a travel-writer wife (unsympathetic and irritating) to her separated husband (tiresome and, given 20 seconds and a familiarity with Western literature, leading up to an entirely transparent "twist").
A novel that's elegant & overly articulate.
Shriver outshines even Flaubert himself: THIS is the very core of feminism, of individualism (move over Madame Bovary...
It's a modern psychology (dissected with words so carefully chosen, both intellectual and to-the-core precise) that deconstructs a past for the sake of...something.
It is, truly, pretty much everything you'd ever want in a book (Shriver's account is WAAAAAY more compelling than Philip Roth's Pulitzer darling "American Pastoral", & they share the theme of the American dream-gone-bad, as parents are betrayed by their own American flag-toting offspring).Recommended 100%.
It's a Grade A+ brilliant, contemporary, and (even!) historically-relevant novel...
I've just finished it, and had a little cry on the balcony in the bright sunshine, thinking about my mom and motherhood and blame, self-recrimination, guilt and remorse and parental love and the painfully ambiguous, sometimes tortured complexity of it all.And that is underselling it.Suffice for now to say, you might not enjoy this if:- You believe that a lack of maternal instinct or feeling is a character flaw or a moral failing;- You come out soundly on the nurture either side of the nature/nurture continuum;- You believe parents always, at some point and for most things, need to be held accountable for their child's behaviour;- You seek the anxiety-quelling solace that pat sociological and psychological theories and labels offer: post-partum depression, sociopathy, unconditional positive regard.This novel should, I hope, blast through any of those preconceptions--some of which, at some times in my life, I've believed.Shriver turns all of this on its ear, and twists some literary and plot conventions to her own purposes at the same time.
I did not like this book.
Let's see how fancy we can sound!" Especially for a book that is supposedly made up of letters written to one's estranged husband.
(Did I really need to say that?) Eva was mean, negative, and overbearing throughout the book.
It was pretty obvious what was going on, that there was going to be a big reveal, after about page 3 of the book (and I'm not talking about the fact that Kevin killed his classmates.
My question is this--was this just poorly written so that what was meant to be a big reveal was, well, not?
Some readers really don't like this book and I'm not entirely sure why.Maybe it's because I'm not a mother and I did find it believable that Eva doesn't love her son completely.
Maybe it's because I enjoy the big words that were used in the letters and found it believable that she would write this way.Maybe I'm a sucker for good endings and this one ended with a bang.I think the writing was superb and despite it being a hard book to read (the incident with the maps was particularly brutal), it was worth it.
This book should be sold at the pharmaceutical counter right next to birth control pills, I can’t think of a better deterrent for unwanted pregnancy.
It’s the story of Kevin, a lethal mix of nature and poor nurturing resulting in the child from hell.
Yet it’s the character of his mother Eva that I found the most disturbing.
It’s not as sensationalist as I expected, this is a terrific book.
It will make you think and it will stay with you, ‘Rosemary’s Baby’ for the 21st century only way scarier because it’s based on reality.
So, in an attempt to limit the coming agony, I made a few rules:RULE 1: Do not get emotionally involved.RULE 2: Do not take sides.RULE 3: Do not dwell on the disturbing parts.A hundred pages later, when I put the book down and went to bed only to replay and obsess over Eva’s commentary in my head, I realised my rules were long broken.I got emotionally involved.
Or did Kevin become who he is because Eva is such a cold mother?In the end, who do we really need to talk about?
Or Eva?I’ve ruminated over this question for days, but I feel it’s best to leave it unanswered.
But one thing I do know is that I love books that make me feel like this...
that "I don't know what I need to say but I need to say something, to talk about this with someone because this book won't keep quiet in my mind" feeling.
It doesn't matter if I read it up until the minute I drop off; I only dream about a book I'm reading, or have read if it pulled me into its world first.
I don't think it was just my last minute mad dash to read this the day before my bookclub meeting that helped me to read 75% of this book in one night after work...
We know from the beginning that Kevin has shot a bunch of students dead, and then Eva goes on to tell random, often exaggerated stories from his childhood leading up to the shooting.
Eva decides from day 1- literally- that Kevin is evil and out to get her.
When Kevin is 18 months old, she sit in front of him and calls him a ''little shit.'' The level of paranoia displayed by Eva is absolutely ridiculous- it's no wonder Kevin took a dislike to her as he grew older.Kevin was no better than Eva. He's a horrible piece of work, with no sympathy for anyone.

The character of Kevin, the teenage murderer whose mom narrates the epistolary novel, was so disturbing and harrowingly well-drawn, that I think it caused some sort of chemical reaction in my brain.
Were Eva's ambivalent feelings about motherhood part of what made Kevin into such a monster, or are some people simply born evil?
Even as an infant, Kevin is a solid misanthrope and shows a disarming talent for manipulation.This question, which I think is at the heart of the book, is not as clearly answered as I'm making it out to me.
I give this one a couple of meager points for addressing the difficult subject  I realise I'm supposed to love my own child but actually I don't because frankly he's a weirdo and always with the backchat, if he fell in a cementmixer how much better would my life be, a lot, and would the world be any the worse, no.Doris Lessing addressed the topic also in her weedy novel The Fifth Child.
As do I for reading this hunk of chewy gristle.Frankly ridiculous 1970s movie : 1Much talked about big fat socially concerned novel : 0
It's like one of those horror movies where you know there is a monster with a BIG AX behind the door and still the actor moves forward.
DO NOT HAVE ANOTHER BABY, DO NOT BUY A PET, AND FOR HEAVENS SAKE, DO NOT LET KEVIN BABYSIT!Not sure if I would recommend this book as it is NOT an enjoyable read or a book I would read again, but despite the sometimes drawn out 400 pages, I just had to keep reading to find out how it all ended, and OMG!
Just watched the movie.
Many differences (including the ending) from what I recall from the book, but still super creepy and disturbing.
No, out of the 400 pages of this book, I thought that the first 200 or so pages were extremely hard to get through because this was not an easy read for me.
After so many pages of build-up the climax was fast-paced and I felt that it was a complete, satisfying read in the end.The book was told in a series of letters by Kevin's mom, Eva to her husband, Franklin.
It was a thought-provoking, slow-paced, disturbing, emotional, and difficult read but I think it was well worth it.
I was completely satisfied with the very emotional ending.
It lacks the immediacy that this would need, as it is exclusively told in flashback, and furthermore the structure is epistolary - in fact it could almost qualify as a series of soliloquies.The main character (Eva) is trying to search through her memories to establish whether she could be responsible in any way for her 15 year old son's killing of several of his schoolmates and two adults.
With the plethora of reasons for and against having a child that Eva muses on, it is hard to credit that she would have completely missed out on agonising about the problem of over-population.
She can write damn well with razor sharp observations on American Culture that are valid, important and on the mark !However...this book was such a miss on so many levels ---1.
A baby could never be as manipulative or cunning the way Kevin is portrayed....even if he needed an exorcist due to demonic posession (jk)6.
Reasons 1 to 5 are enough to bring this book into one star category but because Shriver is such a good writer and observer of American Culture I am generously bringing it up to a two.So yeah we really do need to talk about Kevin but not for the reasons you are thinking !!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I appreciate the author's attempt to get into the whys and wherefores of teenage mass murderers, but I'm not sure the book deserves the attention it's gotten.
I think the relationship between mother and son (a son trying desperately to get a reaction from a mother who not only was ambivalent about his birth, but doesn't like him as a child either) is overshadowed by the horrific detals of the larger story.
The nuances of the relationship -- and the truths about how far a child will go to gain his parents' attention -- are lost in the carnage.
Jesus christ this book was a waste of time.I bought it with high hopes.
I hope this was intentional because I don’t think anyone could write about people so blatantly unlikable without catching on at some point.
Thankfully this lets up as you get into the book but it still oozes of someone who put the words down because they thought “Gee, this will be really impressive and make me seem very edgy and intellectual”.
She took an interesting idea, but she took it for all the wrong reasons.I wanted to hit myself over the head with this book repeatedly while reading it.
In  We Have to Talk About Kevin she goes for the epistolary form.
Lionel Shriver's work is bold and often crushingly sad, because she is brave enough to explore the various unhappinesses of life on earth without offering pat answers as to its causes.
Eva's letters constitute an amazing dissertation on the requirements of motherhood and its attendant mythology (I think I like reading Shriver's work so much in part because I always come away from it feeling more normal about my own gender fueled ambivalencies).
As to who or what is ultimately to blame for Kevin, suffice it to say Shriver does not provide the reader with a clear answer come novel's end.
La stessa Eva cresce sempre più nella direzione del classico ‘grillo parlante’, si staglia sempre più come persona che su tutto ha un’opinione e che mai rinuncerà a esprimerla a chiare lettere.Kevin.Ma Shriver non fa sconti: se Eva sia o meno la madre nella quale identificarsi e specchiarsi conta relativamente, perché Eva è la madre di tutte le madri.E Kevin è la madre di tutti i figli, con la sua dilagante ferocia, la purezza della sua rabbia, l’abisso della sua infelicità.
And herein lies my biggest problem with the novel -- it seems to me Shriver goes out of her way to present Kevin as a "born psychopath".
Kevin's sociopathy which evidenced itself at birth, or Eva's cold rejection of her son, her unwillingness to embrace him in a mother's love the sure cause for his later descent into darkness?
It's like she wants it both ways -- Kevin a born sociopath AND a misunderstood teen -- a by-product, nay victim, of his mother's inability to love him unconditionally.
Ανήκουν σε αυτά τα μυθιστορήματα που είναι γνωστά στους βιβλόφιλους, έχουν καθιερωθεί στο αναγνωστικό ασυνείδητο ως "καλά βιβλία", ακόμα κι αν δεν ξέρει κανείς κανέναν που να τα έχει διαβάσει.
Η Σρίβερ παρουσιάζει μια φρικωδία, αλλά εώς ότου φτάσει εκεί έχει μιλήσει για πράματα που ουδέποτε έχω συλλάβει άνθρωπο να εκφράζει: κρίνει, επικρίνει, κατακρίνει και καυτηριάζει με έναν σκεπτικισμό, ανατρέποντας πολλές φορές μια ιδεολογία που φαίνεται να κλυδωνίζεται τελικά, καθώς κανείς δεν είναι μόνος του, επηρεάζει και επηρεάζεται και έρχεται αντιμέτωπος με όσα χλεύαζε.
Sadly they are pretty much obliterated by the darker themes of this story.It can be both uncomfortable and compelling, to think about the private thoughts of others.
I think we would all be protective of many of our innermost thoughts, we all keep certain fears, pleasures, observations and feelings tucked away, not hidden exactly, just not on display.
They’re ours.Eva’s thoughts, feelings and observations are on display here, as she takes us on her own personal, parental story.
And every reader listening knows that Eva’s fifteen year old son Kevin murders nine people at his high school, no spoiler here, it says so on the back of the book.
Ordinary People spawn Rosemary's Baby! What a toxic brew of utterly abhorrent characters. Riveting, disturbing and unputdownable; but, very well written.
In her 2010 novel, So Much for That she tackled to American health care system and in 2003 in We Need to Talk About Kevin, it was school shootings.
The story consists of Eva Khatchadourian's letters to her husband Franklin; they start from twelve months after their son Kevin has done the unthinkable and killed seven classmates, one teacher and a cafeteria worker.
Like a kid who needs a comedy after a horror movie, I had to then start re-reading one of my favourite novels to dispel the images We Need To Talk About Kevin had imprinted on my consciousness.
Or maybe life is way too complicated to be forced into such oversimplifications.All I know is that this book is scary as hell – and yet I found it oddly reassuring to read about a woman whose clueless husband asks what she'd expected motherhood to be – "a walk in the park?""Not a carefree stroll," she snaps back, "but this is like being mugged in the park!"And then, a few pages later, that narrator admits to a friend that someone forgot to hit her with the magic motherlove wand:"I realize this doesn't sound very nice.
I’m sorry… not getting it)I kind of sort of knew the gist of the book.
The mother (Eva) of said deviant (Kevin) is a successful entrepreneur, having written bohemian style travel guides for a few decades.
Here are excerpts from a conversation between Eva and Kevin in the juvenile detention center… a year and a half after Thursday:Kevin: 'You never wanted to have me, did you?'Eva: 'I thought I did.' I said.
'And your father, he wanted you desperately.'Kevin: 'You thought you did.' He said.
'You changed your mind.'Eva: 'I thought I needed a change.' I said.
We need to talk about Kevin by Lionel shiriver is that book where I just can't I can't get past the first 50 pages no matter how I try.This maybe for some people but this is just not for me I love a book I can jump straight into and this one is not it.I hope others enjoy it and give it a better chance.
