https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/442380.The_God_That_Failed
I especially loved Koestler's contribution, it was by far the most detailed and personal of the accounts.
It seemed that the editors saw fit to put the most relevant accounts first (good call!) In any case, its a seminal read on the phenomena that took place during the interwar years and seemed to embrace the life of every intellectual in West.
Communism seemed the natural choice, especially considering that it was the only ideology that seemed to be taking the rise of fascism seriously.
Naturally, those who embraced this new ideology quickly became disillusioned as they came to visit the Soviet Union and witnessed the Show Trials, the Purges and the Great Terror firsthand.
It is an anti-Communist book put together in 1949, at the beginning of the Cold War and just before the most paranoid period of the Red Scare.
The tone of this book, however, is very different and superior to that of most anti-Communist rhetoric of the period.
Crossman assembled an extraordinary range of intellectuals who had previously been either members of the Communist party or else at least sympathetic to it, but were now prepared to denounce it.
This is not a book of Red Scare rantings.
Like Orwell, the assembled authors are able to critique the Stalinist-dominated Party because they knew too well.
Quickread of six essays from ex-communists about their disillusion with communism. Arthur Koestler's first essay is the most interesting. Seems like the Andrew Wright one is taken from his book "American Boy". It uses the same fictional name of Buddy Nealson for a CP recruiter. The Andre Gidé book is also taken from his earlier works.
This was one of the best books I have read in a long time.
The essayists included are: Arthur Koestler, Ignazio Silone, Richard Wright, Andre Gide, Louis Fischer, and Stephen Spender.
While Silone's essay did not hold my attention, the other five did--and in quite a remarkable manner.
Wright's account of why he as a black man felt particularly drawn to Communism and then of how he was pushed out is heartbreaking.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in political history, the interwar period, or just plain good writing.
Give it 4.5 stars.
Very valuable both for historical perspective and for relationship to current conditions.All six writers have something to say that's illuminating and fresh, even though the book is nearly 70 years old.
They all were attracted to Communism for different reasons, but repelled by it for similar reasons -- largely because it was inhumane and didn't begin to deliver on the promises.There are several nice reviews on Goodreads, so I won't go on.
Definitely would recommend it and would read it again.
If I run across a copy, I'll buy it.
And will look into reading more from each writer.
it's a very interesting book and its particularity is that it gives the views of six prominent writers on communism.
what bothered me was the date of its publishing.
right in the middle of the storm of mccarthy in the usa.
although i couldn't agree more with the views those writers argue, and by now, history proves them right, it does sounds a lot like they were sitting in front of a jury.a maccarthy commission,trying to convince them that their love story with communism was an error from the past and explain why they found out later it was actually evil.
I’d read a lot about this book, in which six authors in the 1950s told of their disillusionment with Communism.
Of all the pieces, I liked the most that of Louis Fischer, a journalist who lived in the Soviet Union for a time.Here was how he characterized Communism’s attraction to him: “Before long, I realized that my choice was made.
A free spirit, unfettered by economic bonds or intellectual bias, can turn his back on the evils of both worlds and strive, by improving his own, to create a condition of peace, prosperity and morality in which dictatorships on both sides of the Iron Curtain would suffocate and perish.”
I felt that all of the essays offered persuasive arguments and stark indictments against the dictatorial, oppressive, murderous Communism practiced and demanded by the Soviet Union under Stalin, but they didn't convince me that a better version of a Communist state was impossible.
That's not to say that there may not be other books which will persuade me that some form of Communism is practically impossible without suffering the failings of countries like the Soviet Union, the P.R.C or Cuba, but this book isn't it.
The best part of this book was the fact that these six authors were all originally attracted to communism.The Initiates, the first section of the book, is written by three authors that were closely involved with the communist parties in pre-Nazi Germany, the USSR, and Italy.
The next section of this was the Distant Admirers, those involved with the communists far away, in the United States, or merely visitors to these countries.Much of this was dry, and hard to keep focus.
If I were to summarize the book in a single sentence, Communism just isn't as good as it originally appeared.
"Avendo potuto sperimentare le possibilità pressoché illimitate dell’acrobazia mentale sulla corda tesa della propria coscienza, so quanto quella corda elastica possa tendersi prima di rompersi." - Arthur Koestler (p. 90)"Ogni organismo totalitario, ogni regime di unanimità coatta, implica una buona dose di menzogne, di doppiezza, d’insincerità." - Ignazio Silone (p. 134)"L’umanità è complicata, bisogna riconoscerlo, e ogni tentativo di semplificazione, di irreggimentazione, ogni sforzo dall’esterno per ridurre ogni cosa e ogni persona allo stesso denominatore comune sarà riprovevole, pericoloso e sinistramente ridicolo." - André Gide (p. 208)"I totalitari di tutti i colori si comprendono." - Louis Fischer (p. 240)
Thoughtful first-hand accounts that capture both the early moral zeal these writers felt toward Communism--their sense that it was the only theory of social organization that made moral sense--and then their path to disillusionment. Koestler's observation that he had time to become a Communist only after he found a job with a living wage was enlightening, as was Wright's bafflement at being labeled an "intellectual" at Party meetings--even though he made his living as a street sweeper--because he wore shoes to the meeting that he had shined beforehand.
The falsity of the Utopian ideology stands exposed in this work. The reason a communist agenda will fail and is bound to be rejected by people over time is the reason why Communist regimes have fallen by the side. The ideology purported by Marx is in a Utopian world is a fact and can never work in the diverse world where people cherish their culture,traditions and history. The authors also note personal experiences of people who experienced Communism first-hand and the reasons for abandoning it.
This looks good...but my priorities are drifting elsewhere. This book contains the stories (written by themselves) of six individuals who strongly and openly embraced Communism, and later came to see its tragic and evil flaws. They write of the difficulty and the psychological pain involved in revising their world view. Of the six, I only recognized Richard Write, author of Native Son and Black Boy. I need to put this back on my to-read list for now but look forward to the time I can finish it.
We are easily duped by political ideologies, the consequences of which are life altering. Being a Hungarian myself, and having lived under Communism, I was riveted to read Arthur Koestler's autobiographical essay on him joining forces with Leftist ideologues and then finding out the true nature of those "gods." A must read for our times! We need to be very cautious about political alliances; Conservatism's questioning nature and realism is the right antidote.
Very interesting collection of essays by 6 writers explaining how they got involved with Communism, then rejected it, in the 1930s. Most of the pieces were written expressly for this collection, Andre Gide's was compiled from his earlier writings about Communism and his experience touring the USSR. I especially liked Richard Wright's contribution, but the entire book is of historical interest, while its warnings on the perils of embracing ideology remain relevant today.
Classic anti-communist black propaganda. Much of it reiterates crude diatribes from the McCarthy period and can be readily refuted. Silone, for instance, has been later exposed to be a government agent. Reveals more about the author's subjectivity (an unremoulded individualism coupled with pessimism/false idealism re the former Soviet Union/overoptimistic impetuosity leading to disillusionment) rather than the real flaws of its subject.
What great personal stories from these writers, both in terms of what drew them toward Communism and how they became disenchanted with it. As we struggle to find our way forward in the world, addressing the economic and social problems facing us, their stories remain current. Our ideals tell us what we want, but reality intrudes and informs us what we can have.
Gw baca yang sudah di alih bahasakan ke bahasa Indonesia, dan dari sini dapat diketahui bahwa Komunisme merupakan paham yang baik namun karena diisi oleh manusia-manusia yang bejat dan tidak punya etika dalam hal keserakahannya maka paham tersebut menjadi hancur dan tidak dapat dipertahankan.memang selalu bukan Paham-nya tetapi lebih kepada siapa manusianya.
Each of these six mostly autobiographical essays was interesting in their own right each of which I enjoyed. One point that stood out to me was Richard Wright's experience of, after leaving the Communist party, the behind the scenes moves to prevent him getting work and being published. This reminds me of the tradition within many religions, especially Islam, to persecute, even kill, apostates.
This relates to those who have lived in Communist ruled states and has experienced the virtues and vices. The Essayists are all impeccable in their observations. However, all of six great minds have written something independently after their contribution in this work. it is worthwhile to explore those works as well for a complete picture.
Read this long ago. The title may make some cringe but it's nonethless true that many oppressed saw communism as a new dawn, godlike, and in the end its failure was a crushing, almost obliterating blow.
"But no one who has not wrestled with Communism as a philosophy, and Communists as political opponents, can really understand the values of Western democracy. The Devil once lived in Heaven, and those who have not met him are unlikely to recognize an angel when they see one."
Un'antologia di articoli di Arthur Koestler (Germania), Ignazio Silone (Italia), Stephen Spender (corrispondente americano), Richard Wright (USA), André Gide (Francia) e di alcuni altri intellettuali europei e americani ex-pro-sovietici, pubblicato nel 1949.
I had my doubts on reading this book, knowing it would be an American propaganda book. But I read it anyway and it turned out to be pretty good. The first three stories were more appealing than the last three. The writers told their life's stories dealing with communism honestly.
Six writers and how they became disillusioned with communism.
Classic from the Cold War era. Refused to read it during my radical days, now it makes perfect sense.
Great book and it's not about religion, so to speak, but it's about the religion of Communism.
richard wright and louis fischer stand-out stories, the rest is too dry/hyper-specific to be engaging
I read the Indonesian version of this book. God That Failed (Kematian Tuhan Komunis)
A collection of essays by six authors who had been Communist Party members or fellow travelers who had become disillusioned by the Communist ideology and the Soviet regime. Well written and damning.
