https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51299.Letter_to_a_Christian_Nation
I agree with other reviewers that there are no new or surprising arguments here.
What makes the book so worthwhile is not, therefore, any (ahem) great revelations.What I found thrilling about this book, as an atheist of 50 years, was the startling, forceful simplicity, directness, beauty, and artistry with which he made his points.
Consider one quote: "If the Bible is an ordinary book, and Christ an ordinary man, the history of Christian theology is the story of bookish men parsing a collective delusion."Beautiful.
Just beautiful.
There are similar sparkling passages throughout the book.
There are some very intelligent people who adhere to a religion (and/or a religious culture), and while they can understand his criticisms completely, it doesn't aid the cause of reason to bitterly strike out against all religions of the world and label a majority of the populace as idiots.I felt like his final pages were the most cohesive, level-headed writing of the book, and I would rather see that kind of analytical approach to these issues more than the kind of "I'm superior because I am a rational atheist" line of argument that does nothing constructive except for those who already agree with him.
This seems like a completely unhelpful, pointless book.
Sam Harris knows full well that the likelihood the people he purportedly addresses in his 'letter' (conservative Christians) will actually read it is close to zero.
But why use the particular framing device that he does - a belligerent, hectoring letter to fundamentalist Christians?
They're not going to read the book anyway, and there's nothing helpful about the 'angry attacking letter' framework.
But to no greater extent than reading the newspaper can sometimes have the same effect.Towards the end of the book Harris acknowledges that "this letter is the product of failure".
For that matter, he classes totalitarian political systems that aren't overtly religious, such as fascism or communism, as being similar to religion in that dogma is held higher than rational questioning and following the rules is more important than relieving human (or animal) suffering.For myself, I differ with Harris in that although I do not subscribe to any organized religion I am not an atheist; but I believe his criticisms of religion are valid and agree that spiritual belief systems should be able to stand up to the same kind of analysis as any other belief systems.Together with his other book, The End of Faith, this is must reading for anyone exploring spiritual questions.
First, I'll consider his arguments against theistic/Christian belief; second, his critique of Christian positions on social issues; and third, the significance of New Atheist attitudes for our common life in a pluralistic culture.Truthfully, given the hype surrounding the book, I expected a much more cogent case against Christian faith than Harris makes.
I don’t care whether you want to build temples to a god who, at best, is enormously small-minded and petty or, at worst, is a genocidal tyrant bent on undoing the mistake of free will.
People are still going to be assholes, regardless of which creed they are espousing today.Either all the accumulated evidence (and lack thereof) is correct and there is no god, or there’s a pantheon of every belief system floating somewhere in the ether.
My main complaint with the idea of people moving beyond religion is I don’t think that Harris is taking into account humankind’s need for illusions.
As an atheist, this was an easy read. There was not anything that made "the god argument" over and done with but some points were well brought up. The problem with a book like this is that only atheists are going to read it, but I wont be reading much material which claims to prove god's existence either.
Such a person believes, at a minimum, that the Bible is the inspired word of God and that only those who accept the divinity of Jesus Christ will experience salvation after death."He also says:...Consequently, liberal and moderate Christians will not always recognize themselves in the "Christian" I address....they will also begin to see that the respect they demand for their own religious beliefs gives shelter to extremists of all faiths....IOW, he makes it clear that he is addressing religious extremism.Unfortunately few, if any Christians can read this with an open mind since they seem to miss that part & then he attacks Christianity.
For a good summary of a "rebuttal" book, I recommend Rich Vincent's review of  Is Religion Dangerous by  Keith Ward.[http://www.theocentric.com/culture/is...]I can appreciate the act of debating what's reasonable and what isn't, but as my strengths aren't found in arguments and debating, I leave that to others.
People aren't debating what is "reasonable" so much as they're asking "where do I find my meaning?" Those are the questions I'm interested in, and this book helped inform me of what other people's answers are to those questions.I'd highly recommend it to Christians who are not weak in their faith.
Sam Harris sets out to "demolish the intellectual and moral pretensions of Christianity in its most committed forms" in only 91 pages.
Mr. Harris repeatedly refers to Christians as arrogant narcissists, yet he regards his own intellect so highly he only requires 91 page to snuff out 2,000 years of religious tradition and intellectual questioning of billions of people who have concluded there was something about Jesus that compelled belief.
These 91 pages could have been put to far more productive use had Mr. Harris actually taken seriously the faith he set out to demolish.
As Mr. Harris says in his preamble 'the truth is that many who claim to be transformed by Christ's love are deeply, even murderously intolerant of criticism.' This quote from Jann Levin sums up the book nicely."“Sam Harris fearlessly describes a moral and intellectual emergency precipitated by religious fantasies–misguided beliefs that create suffering, that rationalize violence, that have endangered our nation and our future.
Now when the subject arises, as it inevitably does, I can simply say: Read Sam Harris’ Letter to a Christian Nation.” –Janna Levin, Columbia University, author of How the Universe Got Its Spots and A Madman Dreams of Turing Machines.He actually does much more than describe an emergency.
Seems to be more of a letter to atheists than to Christians.
I've yet to find a truely compelling message to divert humanity away from religious thought, and Letter to a Christian Nation is far too accurate and on point to be convincing to a Christian mind.One concept which I've found to be unique in this book is this: the word "Atheist" should not exist.
Why then is there a term for people who deny a supernatural chum such as the judeao-christian god?Of course the word exists for a reason; over 80% of the country believes in this diety.
I wish Sam Harris had written this before The End of Faith or I had read this book first.
I'm glad he put away the sledgehammer and decided to spoon feed his readers rather than beat them over the head as he did in The End of Faith.
My main ongoing criticism of Sam Harris is that unless you are already a firmly established atheist, his books don't provide enough guidance around maintaining a life that includes elements of mysticism and transformative experience.
I hope Sam Harris keeps writing and goes more in depth on living without religion and maintaining a sense of mystery and filling the social gap that many churches offer.
A fair share of reviews mention his anger, but I see it more as frustration and very well-founded frustration at that.
The statistic he cites that the U.S. placed #33 (out of 34, just above Turkey for cryin' out loud) of countries whose majority of population accepts the theory of evolution is an alarming one.
As he states, we are a country built on ignorance which does not bode well for the rest of the world.
Some have taken umbrage at his focus on the danger of Islam, but what I took from this book is that all religion is dangerous.
It promotes ignorance, a "surrender of the mind" as Hitchens states.
Even if one were to accept Harris’ premises—that it is primarily religions belief that is responsible for acts of violence—one must, if looking at the situation objectively, conclude that the most dangerous force in the world is the United States, propelled by the Christian fundamentalism that permeates the entire American government, and particularly the Bush administration, which has taken great strides in the direction of theocracy.
In his Letter to a Christian Nation Harris makes statements, to take a couple of examples, that “insofar as there is a crime problem in Western Europe, it is largely the product of immigration.
So , atheists, particularly agnostics, should read it to become more enlightened and completely free from fear of going to “hell” and religious intolerance.
In fact, the book introduced me to the said Four Horsemen of the Non-Apocalypse such as Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, Christopher Hitchens, and Daniel Dennet.
Thereafter, I wanted to read their works on account of my agnostic itch of curiosity then.
Now it’s my first Sam Harris apologia.
We are living in a civilization of ignorance as Harris put it.
If religion indoctrination as a child left you with an unsettling mind and controversial thoughts, then Sam Harris’ “Letter to a Christian Nation” is a good, satisfying prelude to your curiosity.
The pot that, I think, should be stirred automatically by anyone equipped with common sense and rational thought-processing mechanisms.
And by sheer luck I mean the combination of odds putting together geographical location, parental religiosity and societal trend.“Letter to a Christian Nation” will not easily find its destined-for recipients.
As a healthy part of society, we’re bound to be subscribed to this VLAN, that of common sense and rational reasoning.
Harris has all his arguments in order, all the footnotes covered and has layed out a perfectly rational essay.
Yet nowhere, either here or in 'End of Faith' does he adequately address the fact that Atheism, in this country and other first-world countries anyway, is essentially a comfortable position for those who can afford it.
I say this as an atheist, and I might recommend this book to anyone firmly entrenched in their religion who also has a safe house to live in and a lawn to mow.
This book is a relentless attack on Christianity and raises a lot of good points. For instance – religious people claiming to be moral preach against condom use when AIDS is killing millions. Why are they so obsessed about abortion and not about genocide in Darfur? Why are they opposed to gun control - would Jesus carry a gun? Why do they believe so adamantly in books written centuries ago – in texts that promote slavery? Sam Harris explores many of these issues and more. Religion destroys our ability to reason and warps the soul.
I know of no society in human history that ever suffered because its people became too desirous of evidence in support of their core beliefs. Sam Harris is either a dishonest public figure or an incurable idiot.He lacks the most basic quality to write a polemic—thorough understanding of the topic he is discussing. The very characteristics of religious ideologies he opposes constitute the most unmistakable shortcomings of his work—ideological intolerance, narcissistic worldview, almost endless a
Sam Harris is either a dishonest public figure or an incurable idiot.He lacks the most basic quality to write a polemic—thorough understanding of the topic he is discussing.
The very characteristics of religious ideologies he opposes constitute the most unmistakable shortcomings of his work—ideological intolerance, narcissistic worldview, almost endless authoritative claims.I agree with Sam Harris on one point: Abrahamic religions are not competible with post-colonisation western values.
Rest of his arguments, however, are not only adverse to mine, but to almost every academic consensus view it comes face to face with.Letter is essentially a rant targeting products of mob-thinking.
Not a single conclusive argument is made here; not a serious religious thinker is addressed.
This book offers an answer to the question: What is the harm in someone believing in Christianity if they keep their beliefs to themselves and don't hurt other people?
Harris' answer is that Christianity is a set of beliefs that intrinsically DOES hurt other people.
Ultimately, what he calls for is "intellectual honesty." He says, "It is time we acknowledged a basic feature of human discourse: when considering the truth of a proposition, on is either engaged in an honest appraisal of the evidence and logical arguments, or one isn't.
In it Sam Harris responds to the many comments and views addressed to him by believers in the United States.
Many of the criticisms in reviews written here state that atheists and authors like Harris are as fundamentalist in their conviction as those they are criticizing.
I don't find atheistic thought to be fundamentalist.
To write a book about it is not fundamentalist.
The latest drivel I hear from people is that they are not religious but they are spiritual.
Which makes me think that spiritual is to religious what ID is to creationism.
I did not by any means feel the need to give this little book one star simply because it was written by an atheist; I deeply respect many atheist thinkers, and am very open-minded and appreciative toward the good that has been produced by many atheist philosophers and thinkers.
Think about what the worst, least thought-out anti-religion and pro-atheist propaganda would look like in a little 100 page book, and you have a pretty accurate idea of what this awful piece of trash is like.
I approached this book as a person who has a religious/spiritual Christian background.
While critical of many organized religions and the damage that they do, I still feel a connection to my spiritual roots.Perhaps it was too much to expect a well-reasoned invitation to dialogue in picking up LTaCN.
By that time I was reluctant to open up to Harris, as he demonstrated many of the qualities he despises and criticizes in many Christians - shrillness, condescension, and antagonism.
I didn't dislike this book because of my religious beliefs.
I disliked it because of my spiritual beliefs - the ones that lead me to believe that coming to agreement and coexistence is not possible through rancor.

I love atheist literature mostly because extremely intelligent people contribute to the body of works.
This book, however, was a little extreme.
Although I am a Bright and therefore agree with nearly everything said in this short number, I often found myself thinking thoughts defending the silly Christian right.
Not because I agree with them (please…) but because I automatically think skeptical thoughts when confronted with a quasi-militant agenda.
Sam Harris lacks the delicate poise that other great Bright authors (such as my old man crush Richard Dawkins) express.
A good read, but maybe Harris needs to chill for a bit.
Atrocious.
Harris also briefly touches on the problem of religious tolerance, an idea which sounds (and certainly partly is) wonderful, but which presents serious problems when it becomes inappropriate to criticize religious dogmatism, anti-scientific claims being taught in schools, and the often immoral consequences of religious teachings.
The prominent example of this being in the liberal societies of the West where women, LGBT, non-believers and scientific (correct) education are (largely) respected and protected, but where many in the Muslim communities in these countries reject standards of liberalism, showing nothing but ignorance and intolerance.
I read this book out loud in about 2 hours to my son and husband.
It's very accessible and quick to read.
Good if you are really interested in Sam Harris, but don't have the time for reading _End of Faith_.
He focuses specifically on Christianity too, which is one of the reasons I really liked it, since I have some basis for listening to his arguments, having been raised Catholic.
His arguments are eloquently stated and highly compelling.
Of course, the Christian Nation probably hasn't read it, but only rejected it, but it's still a good read for skeptical people like myself.

