https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145667.The_Issa_Valley
With no particular effort the names Dickey, Kinnell, Carlos Williams, Cummings, Bobrowski, Rilke, Daumal, Soupault and now Miłosz come to mind - poets who have written novels that were at least enjoyable and, in some cases, much more than that.
In this region were born around the same time the Polish-speaking lad of Lithuanian descent, Czesław Miłosz (1911-2004), and the German-speaking lad of Lithuanian descent, Johannes Bobrowski (1917-1965).
Miłosz'  Dolina Issy  (published in 1955) resurrects the life shared by Lithuanians, Poles, Jews and Germans around the Issa River, now in the political entity called Belorus.
But they didn't know anything except "he was born and he died."They came in through the back door on the heart nothing sort of prayers like "Do what you want." Three pastor/preacher/father/teacher/keepers (of the George Michael variety, I imagine) she slipped through their fingers.
I had this feeling of their lives as a splinter beyond the tip you could make out on his skin.
I had the feeling that these were the kinds of life splinters you didn't really believe were ever going to come out.
The Issa Valley contains a wonderful connection of anecdotes and stories about village life in Eastern Poland and Lithuanian during the interwar period.
It has the charm and sunny mood that reminds one of Alphonse Daudets delightful collection about Arles, Lettres de Mon Moulin.
Unfortunately, I think Daudet possesses a greater skill that allows his book to touch readers lacking personal familiarity with the region.
Milosz's book will be a great delight to those who know Lithuania.
Add two stars to my rating if you fall into that category and then read this book.
Those not familiar with the region will likely have trouble this book's elusive charms.
Description: Thomas, the child-protagonist of The Issa Valley, is subject to both the contradictions of nature in this severe northern setting and sometimes enchanting, sometimes brutal timbre of village life.
There are also the loving grandparents with whom Thomas lives, who provide a balance of the not-quite-Dostoevskian devils that visit the villagers.
In the end, Thomas is severed from his childhood and the Issa River, and leaves prepared for adventures beyond his valley.
Poetic and richly imagined, The Issa Valley is a masterful work of fiction from one of our greatest living poets.Opening: I should begin with the Land of Lakes, the place where Thomas lived.
Children are much richer than the grownups – they have two worlds before them – one is the world of their own and the other is the world of the adults. The Issa Valley is a story of a boy living in his world of a child and his vigorous wish to understand an adult world and to belong there – his envy and his partial disappointment in the life of grownups. It is a very contemplative and affluent in imagery coming of age tale.
A sample of Milosz's writing is far better than any review I could come up with."Tinkling bells, a snorting horse, the sleigh-runner's noiseless glide, and a white landscape embroidered with tracks.
Some things aren't really explained for a long time - like why Thomas's mother and father are away.
(I don't know the back-history for the strain between the Polish and Lithuanians, so that was muddy for me.) It's a seed-book, I can tell already.
I don't know what to think of this book.
Read this years ago, soon after Milosz was given the Nobel. I remember walking along the corridor at University and passing by the door of his office at the Faculty.
Ο Τσέσλαβ Μίλος ήταν ποιητής, κι αυτό φαίνεται πεντακάθαρα από τη γραφή της Κοιλάδας του Ίσσα.
Σ' αυτό το βιβλίο πρωταγωνιστής είναι η ίδια η Κοιλάδα του Ίσσα.
Είναι ένα όμορφο αλλά και σκληρό βιβλίο.
Γιατί, όπως γίνεται στη ζωή, μιλάει για τα πάντα, και για τον θάνατο.
Γιατί αυτό κάνει με τις λέξεις ο Μίλος.Πρέπει να αναφέρω τη μεταφράστρια του βιβλίου, την Αλεξάνδρα Ιωαννίδου, που έκανε εξαιρετική δουλειά.
Διαβάζοντας την ελληνική μετάφραση, είχα πολύ δυνατή την αίσθηση ότι ήταν ένα πολωνικό βιβλίο, αλλά χωρίς να νιώθω άβολα στη γλώσσα μου.
Είναι και η σκηνή που θα προσπεράσω αν ξαναδιαβάσω το βιβλίο.
Una lectura pausada, estructurada mitjançant frescos d'aquella societat ja perduda, la lectura dels quals sembla dissenyada per gaudir-ne a tastets. M'ha agradat molt la barreja que fa d'història, societat, relacions entre Lituània i Polònia, experiències personals, descobriment del món, reflexions de diversa índole, retrats d'animals i plantes...
I like that Milosz weaves stories of Polish and Lithuanian history into Thomas's history because he reminds us that, as Faulkner stated, "The past is never gone.
I enjoyed reading about these minor characters and their lives, along with their effect on Thomas.
So, the book ends with the end of Thomas's childhood in the Issa Valley, but not with the end of his story.This is an excellent book, and I recommend it to anybody interested in Polish/Lithuanian culture and history, in Milosz's writing, and in childhood idylls that remind us of how important those forces are to our adulthood.
Beauty punctuated with sinister moments...
A novel/memoir about a vanished world, written by a noble, vanished mind, in a deep, poetic, even wasteful prose style that itself has been chased from our own shallow, practical, efficient approach to the world.
A novel about a remote corner of Europe, before the Waste Land set in.
For we who live in the Waste Land, this sort of vision may seem almost embarrassingly nostalgic and foreign.
But Milosz's vision is strikingly anti-sentimental; a profound reflection on faith and doubt, free will and fate, and nature "red in tooth and claw".
A commemoration of Being.
I have probably read some six thousand books in my life -- I can still relate this incredible novel almost page by page.
Surprisingly engrossing, but in the end, too much talk about hunting.
First, I have to praise the wonderful translation of Mr. Louis Iribarne.
It's not easy to translate someone like Milosz.
It is amazing how novels written by poets are still good when the contrary is, in most cases, totally opposite.
Milosz's novel is a joy to read, funny, thougthful and full of memorable characters and situations.
The tensions between paganism and catholicism, Polish and Lithuania and the eternal questions of death, love, ethical and moral development are all present, making this book an engaging work by one of the most important Polish(if not Europe's) poets of the 20th century.Wonderful!
Fekete István Csend című könyve jutott az eszembe, meg mintha Fekete István úgy általában is, csak eddig tőle még túl keveset olvastam, hogy ezt bátran mondjam.Egy világ, amit az írói (költői) emlékezés tesz varázslatossá.
Mert amúgy egyszerű emberek élik mindennapi életüket.Széles tablókép régi stílusban, mintha egy, még a modernizmusok előtt készült, szép festményt néznénk.
:)Világképe olyan embereké, akik életének a természet ritmusa, a katolikus vallás és a vele összefonódott régi pogány szokások adják a keretét.Ha valaha is szeretnék egy hógömböt, akkor ezt a könyvet, ezt a világot szeretném, ha benne lenne.
Csoffadt kis gebe és táltos paripa egyszerre, a csodavárók és különlegesség-hajszolók csalódni fognak benne.Olyan könyv, ami nem az agyra vagy a szívre hat, hanem a súlypontra.
Tame atlase nebuvo nei Ginių, nei kitų gretimų vietovių, ir dėl to nederėjo kam nors priekaištauti, bet Tomas galvojo apie žemėlapius apskritai, apie tai, jog prispaudi pirštu kokį nors taškelį, o ten, po pirštu, yra girios, laukai, keliai, kaimai, juda galybė žmonių, iš kurių kiekvienas kuo nors ypatingas, išsiskiriantis iš kitų.
Ir lygiai kaip bažnyčioje, kai jis jausdavo pagundą pakilti į orą ir iš aukštai stebėti klūpojančius žmones, taip dabar Tomas troško turėti magišką didinamąjį stiklą, kuris ištrauktų iš popieriaus viską, kas ten paslėpta.
Panašiai kaip parašius du skaičius, vienetą ir dvejetą, ir pabandžius įsivaizduoti kas yra tarp jų.
Dažniausiai pasičiupdavo po kelias knygas ir sprukdavo į šilumą – ten ir vatydavo.“***„Vešli žolė, prispausta po padu, palengvėle atsitiesia, o batas mindžioja jau kitus stiebelius; toliau jau šnara, liesdami batų aulus, šiurkštūs pagaliukai, į ankstesnę savo vietą ieškoti kirmėlių sugrįžta išbaidytas strazdas.
Skruzdėlytė stengiasi išsikapstyti iš po ūmai užmestos sunkenybės.Tai metų laikas, kai vis dar kukuoja gegutės, bet jau dažnai baigdamos ima kvatoti, kol galop visai nutils net ligi kito pavasario.
Žalumynų dugne – šnabždesys ir tykus pentinų žvangčiojimas.“***„Tomui sukako trylika metų, ir jis padarė atradimą: po didelio sielvarto paprastai ateina didelis džiaugsmas, o tuomet žmogus užmiršta, kaip atrodė pasaulis, kai nebuvo to džiaugsmo.“***„Isos vanduo dar buvo šaltas kaip ledas.
Poetycka powieść,która pozwala nam dotknąć wszystkimi zmysłami świata,którego już nie ma. Naszym przewodnikiem w dolinie Issy jest Tomasz,chłopiec wychowujący się u dziadków.Miłosz słowami maluje urzekające krajobrazy litewskie,ludzi i ich zabobonne lęki . Wojna,reformy, miłość i nienawiść,radość i żal. Wszystko to jest zagadką dla Tomasza. Czytając stajemy się Tomaszem. Mistrzowska opowieść wciąga w swoją nieodgadnioną toń ,zmusza do zastanowienia nad zagadką bytu,nad wartością życia. Zachwycona „Doliną Issy” pozostaję z pytaniem...czy moje wnuki będą miały swoją „dolinę Issy” do wspominania ?!
I love Czesław Miłosz’s nonfiction so much. I love The Captive Mind and A View from San Fransisco Bay (read those books, they are life-changing). He has such brilliant insight on human nature. That being said, I did not enjoy the fictional hunting expeditions and descriptions of nature of this fictional work. But he is still one of my heroes, so I’ll give some of his other fictional stuff a shot here soon.
Jag är inte jätteintresserad av den här typen av romantiska skildringar av pojkars uppväxt, och den här var inget undantag. Språket är vackert och den är på det stora hela bra, men berättelsen är rörig och lite osammanhängande och till slut blev det för långtråkigt. Jag läste bara halva.
Good, but I had trouble staying with the story, and who was who.
3.5/5 or 7/10
Amazing, enjoyable read :)
The Issa Valley is a tense place, but most of this tension boils about a mile below its surface, where devils dressed like Immanuel Kant reside. Occasional silliness excluded, the goings are really slow here. Yet Czeslaw Milosz's prose is pristine, subtle, gorgeous -- serene, as somebody says on the back cover. And it is serene, so much so that it might rock you to sleep. But with a writer as talented as Milosz rocking the cradle, is this such a bad thing? Certainly not, so long as you wouldn't object to a recently-deceased Nobel laureate rocking you to sleep.
Están a loucura e os demos, as serpes de auga, a dúbida xuvenil sobre a fe, os conflitos identitarios (afirmárense polacos en contexto liturano).Permite acompañar o crecemento dun neno, explicando con detalle a vida do val. Introdúcese no retrato das persoas, dos costumes, da relixión, dos acontecementos. É tamén un retrato de familia.Volverei.
Kai skaitai knygą, tiesiog atsiranda tokių akimirkų kai privalai sustoti ir skirti laiko pamąstymui, žvelgiant pro langą, o tada tiesiog supranti, kad knyga kurią skaitai yra tiesiog nuostabi. Ypač rekomenduoju žmonėms kurie vaikystėje susidūrė su gamta, kurie prisimena vaikiškas tiesas, nekaltumą ir tyrumą. Tiems, kurie dar galvoja, jog nėra sugadinti pasaulio...
Pulitzer-prize winner, Czeslow Milosz writes lyrical prose about his coming-of-age experiences in the beauty of the natural setting of his home town in Lithuania at the turn of the 20th century. Interspersed by mythological and philosophical musings, this book will uplift your spirit and satify your sensibilities..I loved it.
Slow and subtle prose, beautifully written at times but lacking in an overarching plot. Still a joy to read.
The Issa Valley: A Novel by Czeslaw Milosz (2000)
Úžasná kniha. Ať nikdo nečeká nějaké sladké vzpomínání na dětství. Tohle je kniha trochu jiného druhu.
