https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192503.All_New_Square_Foot_Gardening
(Wouldn't these tiny bins soon overflow?) He says it works, but there are very few pictures of actual vegetables in his book - instead it is a lot of petunias and such, which I find pretty ugly planted in a visible grid.I like that his method could encourage rotation, but if you are actually concerned about pests I question whether moving a plant family over one foot would actually make it out of reach of a fungus or insect.
If that sounds sassy, I don't mean it that way - I really do think that this is his audience.Oh, one more thing - he also talks about "Square Meter Gardening", his effort to stop hunger by bringing his method to starving people in the third-world.
Includes Photos of Our Own Garden Mel Bartholomew is famous for his Square Foot Gardens, and in All New Square Foot Gardening, he gives us the tools we need to have the garden of our dreams. Pictures, easy to follow illustrated instructions, tips and tricks... regardless of the level of your gardening expertise, this is a must have book! We live in the High Desert of Southern California where the soil is either sandy or like clay. We haven't had much success with our gardens in the past, but th
Includes Photos of Our Own Garden
We haven't had much success with our gardens in the past, but this year we got serious and decided to go with container gardening, and we are so, so glad we did!Because of the harsh climate here we decided to use cinder block instead of wood for the containers.
We also had rich, garden soil brought in to replace what nature gave us.
The openings along the sides of the cinder blocks will hold marigolds, strawberries, chives, and other plants that don't require a lot of room.
4x4 Planter Squared Off and Drip Lines Ready to Use
Our Square Foot Garden Ready to Plant!I'll update with photos throughout the season, so stay tuned!
If I were rating this gardening method, I would give it five stars.
The information in it is awesome, but the delivery feels less like a book and more like an infomercial...a really, really long infomercial.
If it weren't for all the bloggers raving about their success with this method, I would have tossed the book aside after the first few pages, simply because the language feels kinda slimy.
But there ARE all those bloggers, and they ARE indeed raving about the success they're having with this method, so I read the whole damn book.
But really, I just want the information, not the sales pitch.
As a gardening method, Square Foot Gardening is pretty great.
Mel is a big fan of science and math, so let me break down this book by the (estimated) numbers:20% Discussion of how amazing Square Foot Gardening is, or how amazing Mel Bartholomew is20% Actual gardening content10% Weird and/or culturally insensitive stuff 10% Charts that don't render correctly in the ebook version40% Repetition of all of the aboveThe book starts with a full chapter on the History of Mel and Square Foot Gardening.
But if you're mostly interested in the greatness and history of Mel Bartholomew, this is definitely the book for you.
What I personally found most insensitive in the book was his plan to bring his method of farming to so-called "developing nations".
He dismisses other cultures' diets in a single sentence and, as the previous reviewer notes, acts like the only reason people anywhere are starving is because they don't know how to adequately farm.
More generally I also found his method lacking for application in my own American garden, finding it much too highly engineered for my own taste and not in any way intuitive.
Want to grow a veggie or flower garden but don't think you can?
Think again.
No excuses of not enough space, no yard or no ability.
This is the book for any person with any skill level with just a patio or a yard, for the professional or for the handicap in a wheel chair.
I read this book in 1 afternoon and then my 13 year old son and husband built my boxes in 1 more afternoon.
I think this is something that even my grandparents, who are both in wheel chairs, would enjoy and can do.
this is my favorite gardening book.
there's a man with a neck beard on the cover.
his name is mel.
mel is more or less my favorite person on the planet.
he retired from his job as an engineer at 42 and then turned to gardening.
when you set an engineer loose in a backyard gardening, you get precision gardening.
basically, he figured out how closely you can plant things so that you get the maximum yield per square foot.
each individual plant produces less, but the overall yield is much great.
plus, there's way less to weed.
this book rocks
Box gardening is a great idea, especially when you have alkaline clay like we have in our backyard.
So we're doing an experiment: planting tomatoes in boxes and out of boxes to see which are better.The square-foot part of the idea seems to work for some things, but it's not as helpful for others.
And he mentions that each box will last for several years, but he doesn't give any ideas about how to move the dirt when you have to take one apart.
My garden roughly follows Mel's plans, so this was clearly an influential book as I built my first garden.
According to Mel, I don't have a square foot garden because I don't use a physical grid.
And I plant a little haphazardly.
This kind of garden drill sergeant business is not for me, so I just focus on the information in the book that is useful to me and carry on.
There is a lack of detail on some points: he says "use mulch!" but never talks much about what kind of mulch.
So you lose a few plants, it's okay.
Honestly, if you can get past the bragging and boasting about how great Mel thinks he is, and how the SFG method TAKES!
and how it's revolutionary and how everyone else is doing it wrong, it might be an okay book.
But gosh, I think on every page of the forty I read, he mentioned something about how this garden takes up less space.
WE GET IT, MEL, it's why we picked up the book!
I just wanted to read about gardening.
You can learn all you need to know from this book by reading the back of seed packets and a few free online resources.
Such an anal approach to gardening that you can't help but succeed at it. I love an anal approach (that's what she said) so I was all over this.
Still I enjoy a little bit of gardening.
How to build the SFG (Square Foot Garden) containers or beds and suggestions as to how much of what to plant in each "square foot".
There are of course suggestions of other types of bed and materials to use.
I plan to (try) and get a couple of 4X4 beds prepared this summer and fall so I can have them ready for next spring.So, handy book i like it and plan to (possibly) buy a copy.
If you're into gardening in a limited area this might be tour book.
I'm starting a new square foot garden this year. I am thrilled at the prospect of no weeds, less watering, and lots of produce! I already have little radishes, romaine, spinach, and some wild flowers popping up! I'm sure I'll refer to this book all summer. For the first time I am really ready to have a fall garden too. I always say I'll plant a second crop, but by the end of summer and all the weeds I'm tired of gardening. I think this may be the easiest and most enjoyable way to garden!
I created and tended two 8'x4' raised beds when I lived in our former house that didn't have a backyard garden (we were in a townhouse at the time so I also planted heavily in containers on our deck - my first plant was chives and I absolutely think they are the perfect first herb for kitchen gardeners as they are so easy to grow...
I just can't imagine myself doing this (though I was tempted to try this method next season for the sheer reason of getting rid of all of the weed seed - what I SHOULD do it just put some black plastic or newspaper down now and plant through it come spring).I also don't think I would like how everything will *look* in a garden of this sort.
I decided that neither of us actually know gardens that well even if he has the book knowledge.
Mel Bartholomew is basically the first person to try anything but old row gardening and making a productive garden work in a small space.
If you've never read a gardening book, read this one.But why not 5 stars?
You have to have a permanent grid nailed to your garden bed or it's just not even qualified to be called a square foot garden.
Also, if you don't use "Mel's Mix" to fill your garden beds, well...
Our new place actually had raised beds waiting for us when we moved in.
At the time I had limited space and my husband had built me some raised beds.
What I learned is that smaller plants such as lettuce, spinach, carrots, radishes and onions did well provided that you use good soil to avoid disease problems.
Some vegetables just do better with plenty of space.In this edition growing potatoes is not listed.
My experience with growing tomatoes and large pepper plants using Mr. Bartholomew's methods stressed the vegetables.So, almost thirty years later, who would I say would have success with this book?
I no longer use his book but the experience I have gained growing different vegetables was worth trying his method at that time.
I also observed that we had to wait to get our first couple tomatoes when essentially all of the tomato plants began giving ripe fruit.
We ate the three or four tomatoes a week on salads or in chilli, but after the canning was done, quite a few tomatoes went to waste simply because there were too many coming ripe at the same time.
I also thought that all of the time weeding made gardening not very fun for me.
Once all of them began producing, I canned some tomatoes.
Once the canning was done, the first three plants were just about done with producing, while the rest continued.
A friend insisted that I just had to look at this book again.
After rejecting it over a decade ago, and since then, having heard only one or two neophyte friends mention "square foot", in all those years, I was dubious.
I will feel even better when I return this book to my friend (stuffed in a paper bag to hide the cover).I leave you with the quote that made me drop (literally drop) this book in disgust: "Women tell me they love this because it requires no tools, wire cutting, equipment, or familiarity with construction." Hello, published in 1981...
At any rate, even though I refuse to have anything to do with cows (with the exception of eating them), I do at times return to the soil and grow a mess of vegetables.Unfortunately, living in a gentrified urban area means that our small garden plot suffers from the usual ills of a former-ghetto environment -- do shards of glass count as clay, sand, or loam?
The hell if I know, but the advice that Bartholomew gives not only seems sound, but also seems fairly easy to follow as well.
I’m sure at some point I’ll be blogging about my experiences with this method, so feel free to follow along.
This is a very good book for anyone who wants to grow a market garden, even if there is little open ground to do so.
By creating squares divided into specific grids, the author provides an easy guideline for would-be gardeners, who want results without too much work.
While I don't use too much square footing as I have plenty garden space, I've seen it in action at a neighborhood open garden, where each owner successfully follows Bartholomew's advice as gospel.
His chapter on vertical gardening is eye-opening, so it's hard to go wrong with this book as a basic bible for first-timers.Book Season = Year Round (each season has its seed)
could have been shorter if homeboy didn't spend so much time bragging and making fun of old school gardeners
In my small yard a good principle. I apply to the Ronco school of gardening--you know set it and forget it. That's right, I plant my seeds, let the sprinklers and sun do their thing and pray that I'll get more that 4 tomatoes.
Very thorough, simple explanation of how to garden with no weeds, wasted space and water, or expensive equipment, from building the boxes, to using the right dirt, to when to plant things and how much space to give them. There are even explanations for how to adapt the boxes for various needs, whether it's adding vertical trellises for vine plants, making covers for shade or snow, being able to garden while in a wheelchair or on your balcony railing, etc. The only cons were the repetition of cer
There are​ even explanations for how to adapt the boxes for various needs, whether it's adding vertical trellises for vine plants, making covers for shade or snow, being able to garden while in a wheelchair or on your balcony railing, etc.
The only cons were the repetition of certain points and how it sometimes sounded like an infomercial, but you have to agree Mel is very excited about the success and ease of his gardening method and just wants to share.
The writing itself is a little annoying, but the method is what matters and that part's great.
Not impressed. There's a lot of self promotion in this book, which lacked the detail of the original. I understand that he believes you don't need to fertilize, etc., if you use his soil mix. But this book didn't even discuss succession planting by putting early lettuce in the corners of the broccoli square, for instance. I'm pretty sure the original covered that. There's enough info here to get someone started gardening for the first time, but nothing for the experienced gardener except his spacing suggestion, which you can get off the internet.
Overall had lots of good information. The author is a bit eccentric and could have shortened the book a bit by not adding so much fluff. It was nice to know how one can pack lots of crops in a small space and this book does that.
I agree with many other reviewers. 5 stars for gardening content, far less for writing style. Mel Bartholomew is extremely repetitive and the majority of the book feels like an infomercial. Stop selling and bragging, just explain the process!While the writing was frustrating, my wife and I are extremely to start our garden this summer using his process.
He was constantly patting himself on the back and saying how great the method was, different and better and easier than the way everybody else has always done things, tell your friends, you have to put square dividers in so it LOOKs like a REAL square foot garden and your friends will ask you questions and you'll be able to convert them.
Not a bad idea for a new gardener to read, if they can make it through.This book takes some solid gardening concepts, ones which would help with a low-effort raised bed garden, and proceeds to beat the reader about the head with them.
Here are a few of the main points: create a raised bed and fill it with a certain soil mix (an even blend of composts, vermiculite, and peat moss).
Each step is explained in such a way that a toddler could direct the creation of a SFG (square foot garden), and both prefixed, concluded and sprinkled with summaries of the overall garden.
It was highlighted in a story about teaching poor people in third world countries or in big cities with tiny plots of growing space to start gardens.
The church would go in to teach and most of the time they used this method.
The premise of the book is to change the way you think about gardening (not in rows in a massive mud pit that attracts more weeds than plants) but in easy to reach blocks (usually 4x4 sf) and utilizing vertical plants by having them grow up (i.e. tomatoes) thus you can harvest twice as much crop in half as much space.
Incredibly annoying home-shopping-channel-esque tone made it difficult to get through this book.
If I rate to reflect the knowledge gained from the book, it would be a four or a five.
If I rate the writing style I would give it a one.
Sheesh, Mel, I already bought the book, why do you have to sell me the method at the beginning of every section?
Still, we are adhering pretty strictly to this book's guidance in setting up our garden this year after seeing others do well with it last year and I am hopeful it will yield us a decent harvest in our small sunny corner garden space.
