https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35133917-as-bright-as-heaven
And in As Bright As Heaven, Susan Meissner has given a voice to so many who experienced a horrible plague, one that has seemingly been lost to history.
This disease is more than just a sad moment in history; it is the untold stories of people just like you and me—and our parents, our brothers and sisters, our children.
It is millions upon millions of stories of people just like us.”Told from several perspectives, Meissner was able to give a voice to four different girls and women in different stages of life effectively and convincingly.
1918, a family after a tragic loss, moves from Quakertown to Philadelphia when the childless uncle invites the father of this family to work with him as an undertaker and become heir to his business and home.
They move into the funeral home so how could this book not be about death, given the business ?
It wasn’t until I read the author’s note after I read the book that I learned that Philadelphia was one of the hardest hit places.
Maggie who is 12 at the time is feisty and good hearted and so observant, not just about her surroundings but about her family as well.
The Great War. The Spanish flu.
The Bright family moves to Philadelphia in the process of healing and starting a new life by taking over an uncle's funeral business.
Death hovers over them on a daily basis until the Spanish flu steps in and takes from them and thousands of others, more loved ones.
The war rages overseas and just as the family experiences more sadness, the brightness of an orphan boy is a healing balm to their ravaged hearts.
As the Bright family recovers and mends, their happiness is again threatened.Perspectives are told from the mother, Pauline, and her 3 daughters, Evie, Maggie and Willa.
Not long after their father leaves the Spanish flu begins to spread it’s ugly tentacles across the US, having started in Europe.
Many soldiers have died while in service and they also return to the US forts and hospitals and the flu spreads like a wildfire.
In the end it’s told that around 10,000 people in Philadelphia alone died from the flu.
It’s at this time that Pauline and her daughter Maggie volunteer to take food to the sick and Maggie hears the cry of a baby, enters his home and finds his dead mother and what she believes to be his dying sister.
I just loved this family, the Bright’s. This book begins in 1918 during the Great War and the Spanish flu epidemic, when this family of five, the parents and three daughter’s moves from Quakertown to Philadelphia. The father’s uncle gives him the job of undertaker to his funeral home and heir to his estate.The chapters are told in alternating chapters by the woman and girls of the family.From life in the funeral home, the neighbors, the Great War, the flu, prohibition... so much touched on in this book. This will pull at your heartstrings many times. I so enjoyed it!
Audiobook....read by Cassandra Morris, Tavia Gilbert, Jorjeana Marie, and Abigail RevaschThe first thing I noticed from the Audiobook is that the reader/readers SPEAKING VOICES WERE GOOD- they had the potential to hold my attention, but I honestly thought some of the writing felt like a package of store bought cookies.
I liked it...but something about mixing kids- kissing - embalming - grief -love loss- the Spanish Flu - lots of death and - and tinker bell happy ever after endings all together .....disrupts my chatterbox voice from a peaceful sleep.
Leaving Quakertown behind, this is what the family looks forward to, a new and better life, especially after the tragedy of a terrific loss.I fell in love with this family, and we hear individually from each of them in alternating chapters.
Things look promising for them but then the Spanish flu comes to call, an unwelcome Spector that causes further loss.
Such a winning combination of characters, history and a first hand look at the devastation of War. The Spanish flu hit Philadelphia extremely hard, the hardest in the nation and caused untold hardship and heartache for many.
This is a wonderfully told story, rich in family, love, and history.
It was such a fantastic, enjoyable and beautifully written historical fiction novel that we thoroughly enjoyed from start to finish.This is the first book that most of us have read that centered around the Spanish Flu and it was definitely an eye-opening experience for us as we knew little about the Spanish Flu. We really appreciated what we learned here with some of the devastating effects that the pandemic of 1918 had on the world.
SUSAN MEISSNER does such a fantastic job creating an interesting and unique setting here with this story that really added some layers to the storyline for us.
Finding a new home with Uncle Fred, living in his Funeral Home, helping with the family business.
Her middle daughter Maggie helps with the bodies as well, wanting to make things perfect for them.
It is the time of the Great War. When the Spanish Flu hits, it wipes out thousands of people in the Philadelphia area and Uncle Fred, Pauline and Maggie are inundated.
Making rounds with her mother, helping those in need, Maggie finds a little baby boy who she fears will die if she leaves him alone.
“As Bright As Heaven” is a novel about hardship, family and dealing with choices we make.
As she continued her story, set in Philadelphia where there were over twelve thousand deaths, she involves us not only into the tragedies but also in the life of her characters.
The characters become reality and across the pages they reach out to us and entangle us in their lives.If you enjoy the story of family, the story of life and death, and walking the road between the two, then this book comes highly recommended by this reader.
The characters are wonderful as they show love and loss and the ability to go forward when all seems to be futile.
I love her writing and will be looking for more of her books.
I knew about the Spanish flu as a fact I’d learned in history books but this book brings it up close and personal by looking at a family that owned a funeral home, the Brights.
"Death comes to all of us....meanwhile we fill the pages of our existence with all the love we can for as long as we can."   "We only see a little bit of our stories at a time and the hard parts remind us too harshly that we’re fragile and flawed.
This is a wonderful novel that takes place when the Spanish flu epidemic hit the world in 1918.
It appears that the words "Spanish flu" and "wonderful" should not be in the same sentence but in this case what makes the book captivating are its characters.
The novel follows the Bright family as it sets in Philadelphia.
While they just moved in and are getting settled, world events like the Great War (WWI) and the Spanish flu bring tragedy and challenges into their lives.
The author did a great job developing the characters and detailing the times.
Perfection! I absolutely adored this novel. I have never read anything about the Spanish Flu and was astounded at the number of people & families it affected. Meissners writing is flawless. She draws you in with her remarkable characters and storytelling. This is a novel not to be missed! 5+ stars.
3. 5 StarsA nice easy read that was entertaining and insightful in bringing the flu epidemic to the attention of readers who like myself may not have read much about this time in history.I listened to this one on audio and the narrators were good.
I enjoy historical fiction stories that take a time in history that readers may not have been too familiar with and weave it into a story.
Having said that an enjoyable historical fiction read that was both entertaining and insightful.

“…it’s not how short or long an experience is; it’s the depth to which it touches the core of who you are that matters.”I feel like I should send Susan Meissner a thank you note for giving us this gem of a book.
Lovers of historical fiction, here is a novel you’ll want to snuggle up with as soon as possible!As Bright As Heaven is the story of the Bright family, who leaves their tobacco farm to head to the big city of Philadelphia.
The Spanish Flu arrives, and this pandemic sweeps across the city like a tornado, with its sudden, devastating arrival.
Along with the change in their lives comes Thomas going off to war and then the Spanish flu arriving full force and killing thousands.AS BRIGHT AS HEAVEN has the reader following and becoming immersed in the lives of the Bright family.
If you are like me, you will do research of your own about the Spanish Flu.Ms. Meissner has written another touching book that teaches us some history as well as teaches us about the goodness of mankind and its generosity in times of a crisis.Another marvelous, heartfelt read by Ms. Meissner you won't want to miss.
You will fall in love with the characters and won't want the book to end.AS BRIGHT AS HEAVEN has a beautiful story line, beautiful research, and beautiful characters.
As Bright as Heaven is simply fantastic: Meissner’s tale is fascinating, heartbreaking and an all-around beautifully written book.
I knew virtually nothing about the Spanish Flu epidemic in the United States (I knew that it had devastated parts of Europe) at the end of World War 1 before I read As Bright as Heaven.
I am so glad that she did.There are times when I am reading a novel, and the events occurring are such that I cannot see an ending that will be satisfactory to me.
I really enjoyed As Bright as Heaven, a historical fiction story set in Philadelphia from 1918 through the mid-1920s.
I’m a big historical fiction fan and thought this story was unique - I haven’t read or heard much about stories using the 1918 Spanish Flu as their premise.
I liked that they were close and could read each other well, but also each different in their personalities - something I think is realistic among siblings in many families.I thought the ending to this book was tied up a bit neatly, but I also appreciated that there weren’t many loose ends left open.
I recommend As Bright as Heaven for readers who enjoy historical fiction and family dynamics.
The family and their neighbors are touched by World War I, the deadly Spanish Flu of 1918, and Prohibition.
An orphaned baby becomes a symbol of hope and rebirth to the Brights who have suffered through several heartbreaking losses.Each of the three daughters has their own distinct voice and talents, and it was enjoyable to see the paths they chose.
This year is the centennial remembrance of the 1918 influenza pandemic which killed an estimated fifty million people worldwide, even more than the deaths due to World War I.3.5 stars, rounded up.
One of the loveliest benefits of author life is being given the opportunity to peruse upcoming books before they make their way to the rest of the world.
When an early copy of Bright as Heaven came my way (still in a plain white wrapper, no gorgeous cover yet), I couldn't wait to crack open the pages.
Rich in historical detail, Bright as Heaven is a vivid journey into an almost unimaginable time.
Pauline, Evelyn, Maggie and Willa face loss, transition, change, and uncertainty with grace and resilience as they come to life on the pages.
I was lucky enough to have an early read of this wonderful book set in Philadelphia around the outbreak of WWI. It is a unique premise and gloriously written!
I was very lucky to read an ARC of Susan Meissner's forthcoming novel and it totally swept me away.
Beautifully written and vividly imagined, AS BRIGHT AS HEAVEN is a mesmerizing portrayal of the Spanish flu epidemic of 1918, a devastating event in our global history that I haven't read about in such depth before.
The author deals with the subject with grace and sensitivity, while drawing the reader into the wonderfully constructed world of her female protagonists - a mother and her three daughters - who move into a funeral home just before the outbreak of the flu epidemic.
This is a beautifully written book of historical fiction centered around the time of the Spanish Flu outbreak and WWI.
As time passes, each of the daughters must find her way into adulthood and make her place in the world on her own terms.The story is told from the POVs of the mother, Pauline, and the 3 daughters: Evelyn, Maggie and Willa.
All the characters in the book are wonderfully portrayed, though I have to admit that I found Willa a bit annoying.I had never read about the Spanish Flu before.
The realism of the passages about the Flu were devastating to read, but added so much to the authenticity of the story.The writing is just gorgeous at times.
Home isn’t a place where everything stays the same; it’s a place where you are safe and loved despite nothing staying the same. Change always happens. Always. As Bright as Heaven is a beautiful story about love, loss, and the surprising strength that can be found within during the darkest of times.When I think of 1918, what first comes to mind are the soldiers fighting for their lives on the battlefield, not the even deadlier war being fought on the homefront against disease and the despair it
Susan Meissner offers a window into a tragedy that often gets overshadowed in the history books, and she does so in the most human way possible: introducing us to a family that must rise from the ashes and mold themselves into something new.Thomas and Pauline Bright make the difficult decision to uproot their lives and move to Philadelphia after the death of their son in order to ensure a more stable future for their three daughters.
The Spanish Flu is not something I know very much about and admittedly it’s not something that I’ve ever had a great interest in but Meissner writes such gorgeous prose that I was utterly fascinated by it while reading this.
You got to see how the war and the Spanish flu had an impact on adults and children and also to witness firsthand the devastation it caused just in one family, can you imagine how many countless families had similar true stories like this?!
If you’re a HF fan this is a must read, it’s fascinating and the writing is just beautiful.As Bright as Heaven in three words: Heart-wrenching, Emotional and Unforgettable.
He will become their beacon for the future, proof that life will go on, but one sister will bear a heavy secret that could bring the Bright family to their knees when the truth is discovered.AS BRIGHT AS HEAVEN by Susan Meissner is riveting historical fiction that comes alive as we witness the trials and tribulations as well as the joys of a family who learns what is truly important in life as they cling to each other for the emotional support that only comes from the heart.
All the stars!! Full review to follow.
(So 4 different narrator divisions for the basic form.) And most of the tale occurs in 1918-19 surrounding the Spanish Flu epidemic within Philadelphia, in particular there.
Actually it is EXACTLY like Little Women in the stereotypes, but in a different and later time period and quite out of similar birth order.
I wanted to know the reality of that disease, and this book didn't provide any of that medical slant detail.
It didn't at all reflect the horror of that epidemic period and apprehension to near insanity as it actually occurred.
I simply LOVE this bittersweet yet charming, beautifully rendered, character rich and storyline enchanting work of historical fiction with subtle hints of supernatural wonder.
Once again, Susan Meissner has written a sure to be best seller that will withstand the test of time and appeal to many readers across genres.
I read this as a library book, but I think I need purchase a copy for my collection of favorites.
if only time would stand still, now and again; or at the very least, if my literary love could just spill across the page from heart to page - without needful interruptions .
