https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17910611-wedding-night
Maybe I personally have too many food allergies that are not humorous in the least but having her sister do that to her was not only far from funny but was quite upsetting.Basically, we have two morals to this story:Lottie needs to learn not to make such drastic decisions when life gets her down.
Maybe if she had given it some thought she shouldn't marry her boyfriend from when she was 18 because she knows next to nothing about him only a few days after breaking up with her boyfriend.Fliss needs to learn that she can't control everything in her life (or anyone else's).
This is a book where you have to go beyond suspending your disbelief and into out-right fantasy-land; because there is no way that in the real world that something like these machinations could ever happen.
At least I whole-heartedly pray that these types of things could never happen.Lottie expected her long-term boyfriend Richard to propose to her, and when he did not she went off the deep end.
Fliss seems to think that if she could keep her sister from consummating her marriage then things would work out in the end...
I usually like light-hearted reads, but “Wedding Night” is beyond cheesy, cringe-worthy, and unbelievable.
I actually didn't like any of the characters at all, and it felt absolutely manipulative throughout.
As far-fetched as Sophie Kinsella’s stories go, this one is too unbelievable.
The concept of chasing after two impulsive people to stop them from getting it on during their honeymoon is an interesting one, and maybe it could be pulled off with different characterizations or with a different premise.
It lacked her usual finesse and wit I've come to love in her other books.
Aaaahh I think I just really need to be in the right mood for Sophie Kinsella books. I really do love so many of them!! Sometimes they're super fun, fluffy reads... but other times I get SO ANNOYED with the immature main characters. And this was one of those times. I just wanted to chuck the book out the window like
[4.5 Stars]
Actual rating: 3,5This will be just a brief review.This book was really fun, especially at first. Lottie was, to me, relatable character (now you'll probably think I'm crazy but guess what - I am!).Fliss was likeable at first, but after a while, she started annoying me (view spoiler)[(especially when she crossed the line and putedt her sister's life in dangeour just to stop her from having sex). (hide spoiler)]Same goes for her son, who was sweet at fist but then his lies weren't that funny anym
Actual rating: 3,5This will be just a brief review.This book was really fun, especially at first.
Lottie was, to me, relatable character (now you'll probably think I'm crazy but guess what - I am!).Fliss was likeable at first, but after a while, she started annoying me (view spoiler)[(especially when she crossed the line and putedt her sister's life in dangeour just to stop her from having sex).
I'm usually a huge fan of Sophie Kinsella.
I usually devour her books within a day.
After having read the opening chapter (the "proposal" scene) I actually thought of quitting right then and there.
The book just didn't feel like Sophie Kinsella at all.
Had I read it without knowing who it was written by I would have thought that I was reading a debut novel by a new author who hadn't found a publisher and now was giving this book away as a kindle freebie and still had to learn a lot.
I haven't been disappointed that much by a book in quite a while.
After my mess last year, I had to make sure I was judging this book on it's own qualities and not my love for the author ;) I think what the biggest problem is for me with this novel is that there really isn't a single character that isn't an idiot.
Lottie rushes into a marriage on the heels of a breakup, Fliss makes one bad decision after another trying to keep her sister from getting married, Ben doesn't seem to have more than an iota of a redeeming quality in him, Lorcan is probably the best of the lot but he has issues himself and even Richard you want to smack a time or two.
In fact I own every single book she's done under Sophie Kinsella, and I still re-read Twenties Girl every few months.
My brain kept shouting "How could anyone be so STUPID?" the whole time I was reading Lottie's POV.
Which is strange because one of things I love most about a Kinsella novel is how much I can relate to the main character, even thinking aloud "YES...I totally do that too!" But I didn't do that once for this book.
So I can't believe I'm rating a Kinsella book so low, but it's the truth (something ironically that none of the characters in this book could do and that's why everything blew up to gigantic unrealistic proportions).
I saw so many references to how this was nothing like Kinsella's previous books, how they couldn't stand one or both of the characters, and was just overall disappointed.I don't understand these negative reviews at all.
I think because Lottie's name appears first in the synopsis, a lot of people assume that this is her story.
I also think that is why a lot of people say they didn't like Fliss, because she took up a lot of the story.
And seeing as how I listened to the audiobook, and a lot of times I was at lunch at work...
Just Terrible.Let me just say, I LIKE Sophie Kinsella.
Cute!So I went in expecting to like Wedding Night.
The plot is inane and predictable and the whole book is about a hundred pages too long.A little excerpt to show one of the particularly grating things about Wedding Night:"Oh, Fliss ..." She erupts into a massive sob.
The book is actually written like that.
I really don't like writing a bad review of a Sophie Kinsella book, because usually they're lovely.
But if you're like me and you've read a few bad reviews and you're thinking, "Oh, I'll just buy it anyway- maybe they're wrong!"Well...
I reckon you'd be better off re-reading one of her old books instead.
In actuality, it reads like dangerously divorced from reality headcase meets sociopath-slash-sex addict, and her enabling sister - who I think is supposed to provide the balanced, more mature point of view - has a temporary break from reality trying to impede their nuptials.
Occasionally Kinsella lays off the cringe-scenes to provide some quite endearing dialogue or interaction, but that almost makes it worse when they snap right back into behaving like tools.So yeah, Fliss realises that the marriage can be neatly annulled if they don't do the deed (and she's worried that Lottie The Genius might get up the duff), so she orchestrates many, many improbable scenes on Ben and Lottie's honeymoon, thanks to a helpful hotel owner, whilst rushing over to Greece to put Lottie in a straightjacket or something.
And Lottie proves her right, after things didn’t go to plan with Richard; she gets a phone call out of the blue from her boyfriend of 15 years ago Ben. They end up going for a meal and decide to get married.
So she gets the manager of the hotel they’re staying at involved to stop them from consummating their marriage any way possible until she gets there!Usually when it comes to Kinsella’s books I’m able to overlook the far-fetched stories or extreme lengths some characters may go too, but I think with Wedding Night, it was a bit too much for me.
So, I knew what to expect when it comes to Sophie K's books - a funny, heartwarming romantic comedy, literally chick lit at its best.Wedding Night is about Lottie, who is sick of all her long-term boyfriends who are commitaphobes, desperate times call for desperate measures, she even does the most drastic thing to marry her boyfriend of three years, Richard.
Judgement clouded and feeling rather silly, she jumps to marriage with Ben, sans the wedding rings and big white ceremony - a stop at the wedding registry office and off to Greece!This has to be Sophie Kinsella's first ever book, where the book is written from different character's POVs. You see, Sophie K has a knack to create loveable, sweet and down-to-earth heroines and in Wedding Night it is no exception.
Wedding Night isn't my first Sophie Kinsella book, but its the first I've read in a while - and it was so refreshing to read another of her books!
Wedding Night was no different; it had me giggling throughout!
Like all of the Sophie Kinsella books I've read, the situations that the main characters find themselves in are ridiculous, however they have you hooked!
The book alternates between Lottie and Fliss, and for me they definitely had distinct voices!
Overall, Wedding Night is the sort of book that you should pick up when you're craving a bit of easy, light hearted romance.
Sophie Kinsella has lost her touch, I think.
I was excited to finally read her latest novel, but it resulted in disappointment.
I think Kinsella tried to be funny but I didn't find the humor funny.
I could bear shallow plots (that's what chick lits mostly are, and that's what I want to read to clear up my head after stressing over work), but the narration was just plain.
I could put down the book whenever I wanted without feeling curious about how the story would turn out.Overall, this novel, I don't know how else to put it, sucks.
So, I read the first 100 pages and started skimming after that. Just couldn't get into it so I don't think it is fair to give it a rating. It was definitely a fluffy, chick lit book, but this one just wasn't for me. I guess I tried and I know now that I just need to stick to the hardcore stuff.
Impossível não rir com este livro!----(...)Ser pedida em casamento deve ser o sonho de grande partes das mulheres e na verdade, quando já estamos numa relação séria, na nossa cabeça, o casamento é o único passo a seguinte, a única preocupação será: "afinal quando é que ele se vai ajoelhar?!"(...)Por conta de termos duas narrativas, o livro tem um tamanho considerável, quase 500 páginas e ao princípio a leitura é fresca e entusiasmante mas à medida que as páginas vão passando, torna-se um pouco frustrante as acções destas duas irmãs.
I read almost all Sophie Kinsella books. It's not the best of her, but quite an easy, fun, summer read.
Okay, normally my Kinsella experience goes like this: Pick up book, start reading, become incredibly annoyed with hopeless main character, start to fall in love with main character anyway, read book in one sitting and continue to love it forever.
Lottie is incredibly smart but also comes off as a major airhead in her quest for marriage.
That being said, I still read the book in a single day.
But I felt it lacked the wit, the sensuality and the endearing parts of the characters.
I am fairly sure I am not going to read this book again.
3,5http://mrs-margot.blogspot.pt/ I always like to return to territories like this literary genre, where I always know what I can count on, it's like the expression "go back to the place where we were already happy". Loved the story, the characters, made me laugh at various times. It was a light reading, of unexpected encounters and loves and when the trip of Lottie and Ben begins, the adventure is so hallucinating, frantic and unusual that we can't stop reading.
Sophie Kinsella's last book, I've Got Your Number, was my absolute fave, and I loved the idea of a Chick Lit story set in Greece, so I've been eagerly anticipating Wedding Night for months.
Yes, I know that it was part of the plot (Fliss wanted to stop Lottie from consummating her ill-advised marriage to her teenage love, Ben.), but it seemed like every character in the book was talking about, thinking about, or attempting to have sex.
On the positive side, I did like two of the male characters in Wedding Night.
She was a rubbish sister as well, Fliss was going through a messy divorce and dealing with being a single mother, and not once did she show any support to her.
-Why did Richard want to be with Lottie?
She had no redeeming qualities whatsoever.-Ben was just as bad as Lottie.
Ben/Lottie were a match made in heaven, they were both terrible.
-Fliss and Lorcan had a far more interesting and entertaining relationship than Lottie had with Richard/Ben. The whole book should have been just about them instead of silly cow Lottie.
But this isn't of the same mold as the Shopaholic series and other stand alone Sophie Kinsella books which were light, funny and feel good.
This felt like a Madeleine Wickham book as it dealt with complicated and mature issues such as sex, divorce and annulment.
Readers who like Sophie Kinsella's style but not Madeleine Wickham's would probably not appreciate this.
I didn't but finished the book anyway.
I think they published it under Sophie Kinsella to get more readers to buy the book.
However, it deviated so much from the Sophie Kinsella brand that loyal followers will be disappointed.
Book at Beachtime3* The Book Lovers' Appreciation SocietyOTBR Remember Me? 1* Wedding Night There is chick-lit, and then there is crap. This belongs firmly in the latter category!NEXT!
A great, fluffy, chick-lit. Hilarious and entertaining, what more could you want?!
This one gets three stars because I laughed so hard I cried multiple times while reading it.
That is the genius of Sophie Kinsella's writing.
But. I won't be re-reading it like I will I've Got Your Number.
It was a close call at second, too.
Lottie's sister Fliss and the irascible but real Lorcan repeatedly came close to stealing the show completely.
But Kinsella frustratingly avoided the depth that would have pushed this reader over from liking to loving.
Overall, WEDDING NIGHT is worth a single read for the laughs alone, but a fairly forgettable one in the end.
I love reading chick-lit because that genre is so relaxing and entertaining, and that's exactly why I picked up "Wedding Night" by Sophie Kinsella.
This book has what a chick-lit novel should have: Humour, clumsy characters, disastrous love and a slightly predictable plot.
However, I don't know if it's me who have grown out of the chick-lit genre or if it was just the book; I felt like this story was way too predictable, the characters were way too clumsy, and I didn't think the humour in it was on point at all.
Lets face it, like Kinsella we shall overuse the word incredulous because her novels shouldn't be dissected. They are there for some light-hearted escapism (admittedly a drawn out one being 394 pages long, at particular stages I didn't care if the 'sausage had gone in the cupcake' yet.)I was reading Wedding Night in a coffee shop, engrossed and laughing out loud with not a care who saw or heard me. You definitely need to be in the mood: not taking life too seriously, ready to indulge whilst feeling guilt-free.
Actual Rating: 3.5 stars. I can always count on Sophie Kinsella for a light and fun entertaining read.
