https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1100799.Mary_Rose_A_Play_In_Three_Acts
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0801l4vDescription: JM Barrie's haunting play about a sinister Scottish island and a girl who never grows up.
Written in the aftermath of the First World War, Barrie's play about loss and the mystery of life is by turns comic, eerie and heartbreaking.Original music is composed and performed by Laura Moody, singer cellist.
Laura was recently nominated for an Off-West End Theatre Award for her Sound Design of DREAMPLAY at The Vaults in Waterloo, London.Although this is not about WWI, that particular, horrific global-ish debacle is hugely (no, not bigly: does anyone else worry that trumpisms are flooding the language UGH) influential to this play.
This little-known play by J.M. Barrie has one of my favorite stage directions. Mary Rose is taken by the fairies, and disappears without trace for two decades. One day, she turns up again. She looks exactly as she did when she left, and has no memory of where she has been. Her husband can't quite bring himself to explain to her what's happened, and at first she doesn't understand. But she knows she's missing something. She looks at him searchingly.MARY ROSE: What's wrong?[It is the years]
"...if a photograph could be taken quickly we might find a disturbing smile on the room's face, perhaps like the Mona Lisa's, which came, surely, from her knowing only what the dead should know".I would usually reserve a creepy little treasure like this for Autumn/Winter but the dramatisation is available on BBC Radio 3 at the moment and I didn't want to miss trying it in this format having loved the written version when I read it just last year.
It was 90 minutes well spent and I loved how the music really added to the atmosphere; I hope to one day see it performed.An eerie play about a girl who never grows up, yet far more haunting and hopeless than Barrie's wider known Peter Pan as it is not through choice.
From BBC radio 3 - Drama on 3:JM Barrie's haunting play about a sinister Scottish island and a girl who never grows up.
A soldier sits staring into the fire in an empty, dark house while an unsettling and tragic history unfolds before him.
Written in the aftermath of the First World War, Barrie's play about loss and the mystery of life is by turns comic, eerie and heartbreaking.Original music is composed and performed by Laura Moody, singer cellist.
Laura was recently nominated for an Off-West End Theatre Award for her Sound Design of DREAMPLAY at The Vaults in Waterloo, London.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0801l4v
A strange ghost story, which Hitchcock loved. Barrie, who was right-handed, wrote it with his left hand.
The logical progression from "When Wendy Grew Up," is this play. There is melancholia in this play that would be difficult to capitalize onstage. The role of Mary Rose is strange to say the least. On the one hand it's an outdated rendering of a woman, on the other it is stagnated character by plot creation. The play's realism and magic make this a wonderful and complex piece. Seen in the context of the myth of the Fae, and not the fairies of Barrie's Pan, this story is right on pitch. But how could it be performed?
I listened to this book / play's adaption as aired on BBC's Drama of the Week, and I am so glad I did! I am surprised I never heard of this work by Barrie before, since it's so connected to his well-known and celebrated Peter Pan. This is a ghost story, touching and strange and magical. A story of childhood and parenthood and seeking for something for so long that what it is has been forgotten.
One of my favorite ghost stories. I feel like the ending was different in the production I saw in Scotland
I picked this up firstly because I want to try and read more plays this year and secondly, because my local theatre is running a production of it throughout the summer and I wanted to get a taste for the story to decide if it would be worth seeing.Barrie is pretty heavy on the stage directions, giving a lot of detail as to what the set should look like, where props should be positioned, where the actors should stand, etc.
Thus, it has indeed made me want to try and get tickets to see it on stage later in the year.
A few months ago now we went and saw a production of Mary Rose at a little theatre in South London.
It was really good and a lovely spooky ghost story.
While alive Mary Rose is a little obnoxious, over-the-top in her girlishness.
There are some very detailed stage directions, some which I'm not sure how you'd convey all the things contained in them (despite having seen the play before reading it).
I have to say that I found this a lovely spooky supernatural story.
I managed to find a lovely 1924 edition of abebooks for only a few pounds and that is definitely the way I'd recommend reading it.
A few months ago now we went and saw a production of Mary Rose at a little theatre in South London.
It was really good and a lovely spooky ghost story.
While alive Mary Rose is a little obnoxious, over-the-top in her girlishness.
The last scene between her and Harry is sad and a different and interesting take on what happens to ghosts.There are some very detailed stage directions, some which I'm not sure how you'd convey all the things contained in them (despite having seen the play before reading it).
I have to say that I found this a lovely spooky supernatural story.
