https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64863.A_is_for_Alibi
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Two reviews in the same morning? I guess it’s your lucky day (ha-ha - NOT). And just look at that bright and shiny 1 Star rating. That should be a sure fire way to earn me some new friends. If you’re not interested in reading through my reasons behind not liking this book, here’s the Cliff’s Notes version of my reaction upon finishing . . .  So the long story of how I began my relationship with Kinsey Millhone at this late date is as f
So the long story of how I began my relationship with Kinsey Millhone at this late date is as follows: In general I am not a fan of books in a series.
Friends were constantly telling me if I liked Stephanie Plum, I was sure to simply looooove Kinsey (basically because Kinsey supposedly had her shit together and wouldn’t get kidnapped every 42 seconds).
Well, I found A-F for a buck each.My rating started out at a solid 3 Stars (which is about as good as it gets from me when it comes to a light mystery like this).
Kinsey Millhone is a single female working as a private investigator in Santa Theresa, California.
Her investigation leads her into a series of other murders that seem to be connected.I don't know if I can even justify one star on this book.
I was at no point able to "connect" with Kinsey.
Aside from the lack of dimension in her character, I am also not a fan of Grafton's writing style.
This is the first book I've read of hers and from the get go, I was not impressed.
For example, she says that Kinsey wipes down her Las Vegas hotel room to get rid of prints.
Review  4 stars to A is for Alibi by Sue Grafton, the first book in the Kinsey Millhone private investigator cozy mystery series. It's the book that started it all for me...The opening lines of the book grab you when the narrator tells you that she killed a man. You want to know more about this situation. Then you get to know a little bit about Kinsey. Twice-divorced. 32. New to PI work. You already start to root for her as much as you ask questions about her former life.In this one, it's all
4 stars to A is for Alibi by Sue Grafton, the first book in the Kinsey Millhone private investigator cozy mystery series.
Then you get to know a little bit about Kinsey.
You already start to root for her as much as you ask questions about her former life.In this one, it's all about divorce and a cheating ex-husband.
Right out of the gate, you know this series won't be a traditional cozy.
I like those, too.Kinsey is mostly a good character.
For those new to me or my reviews...
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
It's interesting that Kinsey Millhone and Vic Warshawski both appeared for the first time in the same year.
Kinsey's approach to detecting was reasonably realistic, I liked the old style feel to everything(was the 1980's really that long ago!) and the writing was good.
The story built up quite slowly but picked up the pace at the end and it was easy to read the whole thing in a fairly short time.I will certainly move on to the next book and it is very likely that I will make my way through the whole series:)
I read this book as part of an interdisciplinary course in law school entitled "Law in Literature." While the book was acceptable/average in terms of its overall plot, development, and color, my enjoyment of the novel came from the fact that until the last half of the book (when the protagonist - a female detective - sleeps with a man she is investigating) I hadn't realized that the main character was a woman.
I thought of myself as suitably progressive when the novel described the main character wanting to date a guy, and putting on pantyhose.
Novel is totally about a woman instead.
Godinama sam pokušavala da nagovorim srpske izdavače da objavljuju ovu divnu autorku...
Detektivski romani, a pritom i duhoviti i zabavni...
I uvek sam dobijala isti odgovor...
"Problem su naslovi...
Autorka ide po abecedi...
Prvi naslov ne bi bio problem, a šta s drugim i ostalim naslovima..." Svesrdnu pomoć pružao mi je i Zvonimir Majdak (preko koga se završavaju autorska prava), ali nismo uspeli...
U Hrvatskoj je prevedeno nekoliko naslova, ali se izdavači nisu marketinški pretrgli tako da ni tamo ova autorka nije "zaživela", a to i te kako zaslužuje...
No, ne gubimo nadu da će jednog dana biti i prevedena...
And yeah I figured I would use improper grammar and discreetly reference KINSEY AND ME: STORIES which I haven’t yet read and I may never get to based on my current TBR shelf and future book endeavors.
MacDonald and Harry Kemelman, led her to create a mystery series of linked titles and shackled her to one series and character for 26 books, 22 of which have been published as of this review.
But I’ll be taking my time as I slowly meander my way up the mountain.In her first outing, Kinsey reminded me of a piece of wood that hadn’t been sanded or varnished or even painted for that matter.
“My own mystery, unplumed, undetected, was sorted into files that were neatly labeled but really didn't say much.” Kinsey Millhone, an average detective with a conscience and a relaxed lifestyle, lands a whopper of a case to open this first of many, many books.
To find out who really killed her husband AFTER she's released from prison for doing the deed.Mildly paced with other mediocre tension, the book mainly wins through the point of view of the detective.
The writing style puts in enjoyable humor in serious situations, but it's mainly kept to the point and focused on the story at hand.
A good mystery for those who did modern golden-age detectives.
ABOUT THIS BOOK: A IS FOR AVENGERA tough-talking former cop, private investigator Kinsey Millhone has set up a modest detective agency in a quiet corner of Santa Teresa, California.
When her investigation turns up a second corpse, more suspects, and a new reason to kill, Kinsey discovers that the edge is closer--and sharper--than she imagined.MY THOUGHTS: Is there anyone out there who has never read one of Sue Grafton's Kinsey Millhone books?
I listened to the audiobook of A Is For Alibi by Sue Grafton, narrated by Mary Peiffer and published by Books on Tape via OverDrive.
Enter Nikki Fife, recently released after an eight-year stint in prison for murdering her husband.
To make matters worse, as soon as Millhone begins poking around, people with ties to the case start turning up dead, and before long, Kinsey may find herself in the line of fire.This is a good introduction to a series that would develop very long legs and attract a huge fan base.
Thirty years after the publication of "A" Is for Alibi, Kinsey Millhone still soldiers on and Grafton has nearly reached the end of the alphabet.
And certainly any fan of crime fiction should be at least marginally acquainted with Kinsey Millhone.
4.5 stars. Really surprised by how much I enjoyed this! It's dated of course, set and written in the 1980s, at the forefront of PI novels with ballsy female protagonists. I loved that no one had mobiles, but relied on a call service, and that case files were handwritten or typed. The case was a good one. I'm looking forward to continuing with this series. I believe the author died while writing the 'Z' story...a shame she didn't quite get to finish..
After my aunt recommended it, I decided to check out her infamous alphabet series.Kinsey Millhone is a former cop, a twice divorcee, and a private investigator.
She comes to Kinsey, who takes the case and begins the slow process of unraveling the truth hidden by eight years.Good:No one can say that Sue Grafton skips over the description.
All too often, in books, movies, and TV, we see investigators focusing solely on one mystery at a time.
And the ending is a surprise--sort of.Bad:First off, Kinsey Millhone comes off as less a person and more a vehicle for telling the story.
When Nikki Fife appeared on her doorstep, Private Investigator Kinsey Millhone was surprised to see her.
Now she was hiring Kinsey to find out who really killed him – she knew she didn’t, but no-one had believed her when she was convicted.
Now she needed the truth…Kinsey had been to the trial eight years previously and formed an opinion then – she felt that Nikki was innocent but with the length of time since it had all happened, the case was definitely a cold one.
She couldn’t get anything to gel; nothing felt right.
I'mean it was filled with twists till the end, and has some thrill in the final chapter.
The story revolves around the murder of a divorce attorney named Laurence Fife.
His wife Nikki was found guilty for the murder even though she claimed to be innocent till the end.
After she went out of jail eight years later, Nikki hires Kinsey Millhone, a private Investigator to find out who killed her husband and framed her.
However, as Kinsey search for clues, people related to the case are being killed, and she realize that the case has more than it meets the eye.
I spend a lot of time on the road and I don’t like leaving things behind.
I’d never really met her but I’d been present at her trial eight years before when she was convicted of murdering her husband, Laurence, a prominent divorce attorney here in town.“Maybe you’ve heard this one before,” she went on, “but I didn’t kill Laurence and I want you to find out who did.” “Why wait this long?
I enjoyed Kinsey and the storyline was entertaining, especially when the action picked up throughout the second half of the book and I read it in one sitting.
I think at times the book's flow got a bit rough.
Kindly ends up investigating this and another case of a young woman who also died by the same means.
I do wish we had a chance to spend more time with them in this first book, but Grafton focuses on the case that Kinsey is working as well as a romance that comes out of nowhere.
The series takes place here and though the years may change, Santa Teresa is the main setting.Kinsey goes through a life changing event in this one, that scars her a bit going into B is for Burglar.
(view spoiler)[It is a sad state of affairs when I can say with great honesty that every single mystery I've read, if the sleuth is female, she ends up fucking the bad guy.
Why the bloody hell did I have to read four bricks' worth of text only for her to step inside the office and never return to the fucking lobby?
The more I write in this review the more I realize I didn't really enjoy this experience as much as I just didn't find any reason to stop reading.
3.5 starsNo. 1 in a series I had planned to start reading for ages. Not disappointed, but not ecstatic either. It's a nice detective story, straightforward and pleasant to read. I always think that an author has to find his or her feet in the first part of a series anyway.
This novel is over 35 years old and it does show its age, but it doesn’t take away from it.
We get introduced to Kinsey Milhone, 32 years old .
Now she’s a P.I She is investigating the murder of an attorney.
The novel spans 16 days and takes places in various cities in California and in Las Vegas.Kinsey is a strong real woman who knows what she wants and knows how to get it.
She’s been pushed and pulled in this world and she won’t let anyone do shit to her.
She’s likeable and smart.
A solid 4 stars novel.
The reading by Judy Kaye was pretty good, too.
To quote John Prine, it was "Pretty good, not bad.
I can't complain, but actually, everything was pretty much the same." IOW, it was as standard a mystery thriller as I've ever read.
Kinsey is a fairly likeable, realistic heroine & her investigation is quite mundane.One of the draws of this sort of story for me is to identify with the hero/heroine.
I never really did that with Kinsey, even though she tells the story.
I won't bother to review the whole A through S (so far) series, and I doubt I could remember my reaction to each individual book in any case.
First, the series is based in Santa Teresa, CA, a very thinly disguised Santa Barbara, which makes it great fun for anyone who's lived in SB.
I respect authors that give us detectives who are actually detectives and who don't just accidentally stumble into murder plots everywhere they go, even if Kinsey does have to mention in every book that PIs don't usually have this much excitement.
Kinsey is great fun, and fairly *real*.
2018 Reading Challenge: local authorThe Rory Gilmore ChallengeI basically started with A and not the letter actually on the list because if I ended up liking it I wanted to start from the beginning. I bought B it was good, but not fantastic. But she is from my home state, so I feel like I should support her.
This was my first Sue Grafton book. It was a solid read but it did not have the elements of a thrilling mystery that I enjoy. It missed the mark on the suspenseful twists and turns that I typically thrive on in a good mystery. Kinsey is likable. I was instantly drawn to her drive and fortitude. Being that this is the first book in the Alphabet Series, I'm looking forward to reading the remaining books in this series. I'm anxious to see Grafton's growth & development as a writer and to see how Kinsey's character evolves.
This was my first Sue Grafton book. I liked it! Kinsey is smart, sassy, witty, bold and likable! This takes you back to when detective work was exactly that. No modern technology to help out, just good ol' paper trails and landlines. Imagine what Kinsey could do if she had a smartphone! I gave it 3 stars. Sue Grafton did have me guessing at times, but I did find a lot of it predictable. I will continue reading the series. I look forward to seeing how Kinsey develops.
I guess I just got used to reading Janet Evanovich. There is no wacky granny or crime-fighting-ex-hooker sidekick.Nothing explodes.Kinsey just seems so damned dull.
Even though it took me forever, I really enjoyed this book! I enjoyed Sue Grafton's writing style & the characters she created. Defintely will read more in this series.
I don't read mysteries as a regular thing, and I don't know why I first picked up the Kinsey Millhone books, back when she was only on C or D.
Be nice or I'll start telling you horror stories about being right in the middle of a good scene and then having your cassette player start spewing narrow black magnetic tape all over the place.Anyway.
And we're both well aware that the problem isn't the dogs but the owners who let them lunge, snarl, bark, and/or make passionate love to strangers' legs.
We both love junk food but hate jelly doughnuts.
Kinsey Millhone is a fast-food aficionado.
The first in the series of Kinsey Millhone, she is s a bit of a character, down to earth and low maintenance, I think I could be friends with her. Outdated to the max for this day and age, no internet, no mobiles and think 'corduroy A-line skirts' and turtle-neck sweaters. Still, I think a little trip down memory lane is adding to my enjoyment. I will read on to B!
It was pretty fun !
Once I warmed up to the writing and the main character, I was taken by the mystery and even though my first guess was the right one, I wasn't sure at 100% til the end.
(that part was a bit disappointing, my first guess being the correct one).
The whole series is so going to my to read-list !And there were some kick-ass cynical quotes ^^!On another note, I can't helped but wish the main character had another orientation ;) I think reading lesfic is going to spoil me for any mainstream genre.
Audiobook performed by Mary PeifferBook #1 in the Kinsey Millhone series.
Kinsey is a private investigator who is asked to look into an old murder case – by the woman convicted of poisoning her unfaithful husband.
As Kinsey begins looking into the old case she discovers that a young accountant who did the law firm’s books also died shortly after Nikki’s husband – and of the same poison.
This requires Kinsey to investigate the old-fashioned way (does anyone else remember using a reverse directory?).
I also like the way she describes the various characters; I got a very clear picture of each of them.
