https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1213297.Cornelli
And when Cornelli finally paid her own visit, I knew good things were sure to come.
Mrs. Halm was a wonderful mother, to Cornelli as well as her own children, and little Mux was so much fun!Of course, everything wrapped up beautifully and with strong messages about trusting God's will over our own plans and desires.
But I think my favorite takeaway was the way Cornelli's trials brought her a deeper compassion and desire to help others.
I'd have been a little happier if the children's unkind remarks about Trina had been corrected, but the way Cornelli empathized with her and tried to take care of her was very sweet.
I first read it in 2011, and I had forgotten much of it.
It is a truly delightful story and, as usual, I resonate with Spyri's protagonist SO MUCH.
I have often wondered whether Spyri was such a child herself - misunderstood, sensitive, alone - or if she just happened to land on a formula that worked well.
I tend to think it was the former, because it seems so achingly portrayed, but who knows.I do have to say the ending is not what I had originally anticipated, though perhaps some things must be read between the lines.
When we were children we just loved Heidi.
We would drink cereal milk or soup from our bowls and pretend we were on the Alp with the Alm Uncle, and play all sorts of things inspired by the book.
Our mother read it aloud to us from a book she had as a child.
Being oldest I heard it at least three times and read it myself in between.It was with pleasure that I discovered Cornelli in the Nook books.
It is much like Heidi in spirit and tone.
It is an old fashioned book about a lively spirited girl.
I would have loved this as a child.
In my opinion this book has much more depth than "Heidi". The characters are more detailed and the story line is more captivating. Again, I enjoyed the spiritual aspect. I believe this kind of story helps to show children how their actions (and reactions) can cause consequences. It also helps to understand how to deal with problems life throws our way and overcome them. It can show us the importance of appreciating what we have- Which I think is detrimental for children to understand nowadays.
It's really refreshing to find a book to read to my children with such an unapologetic Christian worldview. Christian literature produced today often reads like samizdat propaganda because it comes from a subculture at odds with the mainstream. This is something different -- literature written by a believing Christian, at a time when Christianity was mainstream.
A sensitive child Cornelli undergoes a radical change when put under the care of an autocratic aunt who does not understand her, while her father is away. A loving family she discovers through a convalescing boy who comes to the neighbourhood helps her regain her lost confidence and establish herself as a good-natured girl in eyes of her father.
I remember it was the first long book "without pictures" that I read, and that I was so happy, because though I was young I always wanted to read more and more. This book introduced to the sweet and fascinating literary world that I've lived in my childhood.
Sweet book. Very evocative tale of a simple life.
I had never realized that Spyri had written other books than Heidi. I was delighted to find that she had written several books.
