https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1132614.Rudolph_the_Red_Nosed_Reindeer
Honestly, this was just the sweetness I needed this season. This is an authentic reproduction of the original 1939 edition, written in brilliant rhyming prose, complete with nostalgic illustrations penned in a simpler time. I grew up waiting every year for the Rankin Bass special on tv, but I had never thought to consider where or when Rudolph entered Christmas folklore. Rudolph has just always been. Mr. May unwittingly left an indelible mark on Christmas. What a gift to children everywhere. This is brilliant. A holiday classic not to be missed.
This picture book is an oversized 75th anniversary production featuring the poem by Robert L.
It features sumptuous illustrations by Antonio Javier Caparo that take us back 75 years (in a good way!).Did you know that Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer was an invention of the Montgomery Ward department store?
But seriously, this book is very good and May’s poem follows the same basic story of the song you probably know better.This is the version of the song I grew up with:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0byH9...The 1964 movie featuring Burl Ives that I watched on tv that year and many times since:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6zzMl...
This is the original story of Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer, written by Robert L.
Out of all the versions of it currently available in print, this is most definitely my favorite one - all thanks to Antonio Javier Caparo absolutely stunning watercolor illustrations.Who doesn't know The Red-Nosed Rudolph?
Rudolph story is a true classic, filled with magic and Christmas spirit.
It's completely fantastic and it makes for a perfect Christmas gift.
Rudolph The Red-Nosed Reindeer is a story I will be reading to and with my daughter every year around Christmas time.
This is the original story of Rudolph and my favorite of the stories, the movie does not follow this book. But this one is the classic story!
This was far better than May's sequel, IMO, and I actually quite enjoyed it and the little rhyme scheme was fun rather than annoying.
It's neat to see the similarities and differences between this original telling and the subsequent song and classic stop-animation film.
I was a little disappointed as I checked out the Applewood Books version (they are known for their reprints of classic books) because it did not have the original illustrations but rather ones to "enhance the enjoyment of a new generation of children" but, oh well.
(The illustrations were cute enough, mind you, but I was hoping for a facsimile of the original!)
Robert May is the original author who invented Rudolph. This is the real Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer. My father grew up down the street from the Mays, and heard this story as a child, so when the book was published, it became a treasure to our family. I highly recommend getting an original edition.
While this story is quite different from the movie, the underlying story is still the same, and is written in lovely Suessian rhymes; it's the perfect companion to the Grinch. I'd highly recommend it, especially if you love vintage reindeer illustrations.
This book is poorly designed, and completely useless to be used as a read aloud for baby time, which was my initial plan when I saw a board book form a Rudolph.
If you plan to use a board book of Rudolph, find a different version that just has the words to the song and was actually intended for infants.
Otherwise buy a full size book and read it with older children that the story was originally intended for.
I had, until today, never read the original book / poem of Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer.
It is one of the most beautiful pieces of ridiculous doggerel in the English language.
The lengths to which the author is willing to go to ensure a rhyming couplet are inspiring.
That alone would make it worth reading.
But it is all the more worth reading as an astounding exercise in bending the English language to one’s will.
The rhymes and line breaks are an inspiration to anyone who has ever felt a moment’s hesitation in writing poetry, worrying they may be trying too hard to make the rhyme work.
This is a reproduction of the original 1939 edition that gave birth to the Rudolph myth. Prior to reading this book, I had no idea that Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer had been imagined for the Montgomery Ward department store. I had been expecting an illustrated version of the classic Christmas song with old-fashioned drawings, so I was surprised. While the text's content is basically the same as the song, there are some differences. Personally, I prefer the song, but I really enjoyed the illustrations.
Some children’s ebooks are worth checking out from the library around Christmas. The story of Rudolph the reindeer has humble beginnings, but has gone down in history much like the song states. The original story is a bit different from the more well known tv special, but the basic premise is there. The rhymes are great and some lines stick with you (“the number one job, on the number one night”).
It's fun to read these Christmas classics, particularly if you just know it from the song or the tv show. Obviously there are some differences, running away with the misfit elf, encountering the snow monster and the misfit toys on the island are not in the book at all. It is nice to see the original illustrations.
This is not the edition that I just read, but I have one that is the 1939 original poem of Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer. It is not the song but a fairly long poem that is based on the style of the night before Christmas written by Robert May who worked for Montgomery Ward Department store in Chicago during the depression. Learn something new all the time
I read this for my son's daily reading time. This was such a cute read. It put a different spin on the story of Rudolph the reindeer. Rudolph has always been one of my favorite Christmas characters.
Why does Rudolph sleep in a human bed?Isn't it odd that Santa has never encountered inclement weather on Christmas Eve? He seems wholly unprepared. Can't the elves construct a great spotlight or something?
Great book for kids who love Rudolph!
This book was a delightful treat. I'd never read the original Rudolph, and my daughter loved it.
It was good - really good. And in the story Rudolph gets laughed at and then he helps Santa with his Christmas list.
Rudolph is so cute! :)
Always love a classic!
A fascinating slice of history, both in visual style and wording.
Such a sweet story. A Christmas classic for sure. 🥰
This is the first time I've read the original, that I remember, and it's wonderful! I may need to add it to our family's collection.
I didn’t realize this was the original text when I was reading it to my daughter today. It didn’t flow off the tongue as easily as most of her books, but she enjoyed it.
A childhood favorite. Happy the song continues as a traditional favorite.
*wink* So I'm glad I read this - and I know you'll enjoy it (and knowing the truth) too.This version is the best as it's a replication of the original booklet that came out in 1939.
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Sometimes the original isn't best. This tale of Rudolph is written in the style of 'Twas the Night Before Christmas, but with less adept scansion and running a bit too long. My three year old has a long attention span for books normally but didn't have the patience to finish this one.
I love this replica of the original Rudolph. It is so vintage and fun. I like Robert Lewis May's story of writing the story for his little girl as much as the story itself. Here it is for you to read...On a December night in Chicago several years ago, a little girl climbed onto her father's lap and asked a question. It was a simple question, asked in children's curiosity, yet it had a heartrending effect on Robert May. "Daddy," fouryear old Barbara asked, "Why isn't my Mommy just like everybody
Here it is for you to read...On a December night in Chicago several years ago, a little girl climbed onto her father's lap and asked a question.
"Daddy," four­year old Barbara asked, "Why isn't my Mommy just like everybody else's mommy?"  Bob May stole a glance across his shabby two room apartment.
On that December night in the shabby Chicago apartment, Bob cradled his little girl's head against his shoulder and began to tell a story...
And so it was that Rudolph became the most famous and beloved of all the reindeer.” Little Barbara laughed with glee when her father finished.
And I think it was the fact that it was different that made me appreciate it more.The story is told in rhyme.
Santa starts out on his trip, it isn't until he's delivering presents to Rudolph's house that he notices the brilliant light of his nose.Santa then decides to wake him up and ask for his help.
The rest of the journey goes much easier for Santa!The book concludes with Santa returning Rudolph to his family, to his hometown.
(As he usually is!)The fog was as thick as a soda's white fizz.The book is definitely text-heavy.
You all know the tale, so I won’t bore youwith a plot that’s already laid out for you.Let me just say this story’s the best!For reading at Christmas, it beats all the rest.The song is familiar and I think it’s nifty,Recorded just one year before 1950.But it wasn’t Gene Autry who first sang the song,It was some guy named Brannon who first put it on.And the TV show is one of my faves,I watch it each year come what may.It first hit the small screen before I was born,Rankin/Bass did it in ’64.But this is the one that started it allWho knew the legend would grow up so tall.It was written way back in old ‘39By Robert L May, little known at the time.Montgomery Ward gave him a lookand asked for a story for coloring books.May took the job and gave it his bestAnd hist’ry was made…you know the rest.And if you’re wondering why I’m writing in verse,It’s because Robert L May did it first.Rudolph is penned in poetic form,Which makes this audiobook far from the norm.The story is short, only 10 minutes long.With 
