https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/457457.Fine_Things
Excellent read! a complex and delightful story about caring,loving and how one treats others less fortunate...well written (paperback!)
I loved this one. Ms Steel writes many books and they're good stories. They all serve a purpose and this one I'll get around to reading again. I'm not the only one to rate this highly.. Literary reads are great of course, and so are books like this! They've all got their place and they find theirs on my shelf quite a lot by the way!
Nakon duge potrage napokon sam pronašla ovaj roman, pročitala ga i pozitivno se iznenadila. Jako lijepa priča o životu jednog čovjeka koji se suočava sa tragičnim trenucima, ali i proživljava one najljepše. Jedina zamjerka ide prevodiocima srpskih i hrvatskih izdanja koji su naziv Fine Things preveli kao Lepe/Fine stvari. Prezime glavnog lika je Fine pa prema tome to aludira na njegov život, a ne na neke lijepe ili fine stvari. Preporuka za sve ljubitelje porodičnih drama i ljubavnih priča.
The incoming events are difficult and touching to him and his loved ones.
He has a kid that came with his wife Liz. The kid named Jane finds that Bernie not only is a good father but also a good supporter in events to come.I can connect to the world because people marry others and already have kids that become adopted.
Jane becomes adopted by Bernie who is fairly rich but also has his problems.
The problems here are not one that an average person might have but are still touching.
They have problems that people have rarely and still deal with it.
Bernie Fine, our main character, finds himself being transferred from his beloved New York City to San Francisco.
However, that would be way too easy for a Danielle Steel novel, and we find that shortly after the birth of their first child, Liz is faced with a losing battle to cancer.
Now, Bernie finds himself alone with two children, and he must face the loss and learn how to move on.This novel was really jam packed with ups and downs.
Just as soon as something exciting was over, something new happened.
this is one of those books you wont want to put down, but fair warning it is a tear jerker.
the main character finds the love of his life, their romance is one of a kind the kind we all dream of and then she is taken from him and he has alot to deal with , there are alot of twists and turns alot of susupense, alot of romance , a little bit of everything, even some laughable moments.
Danielle steel is a great author i have heard alot about her but this is the first book of hers i have read and I know I will be reading more.
Highly reccommend it
One summer when I was a teenager I had no money and nothing to do. I started digging into my mom's bookshelf just for something different to read. (You can only read your Sweet Valley High and V.C.Andrews so many times.) I plowed through book after book of Danielle Steel that summer. And after I read it I claimed the book as mine and it went on my bookshelf. To this day I don't know if my mom has actually read a Danielle Steel novel.
One thing I really love about Danielle Steel is that you can picture her as a 12 year old girl, dreaming up romantic stories.
And apparently the men who bought the clothes for the women's lines were like rock stars.
Bernie Fine is a rock star.
Danielle Steel's idea of a rock star, anyway.FINE THINGS is the story of Bernie's life, with some love stories and soap opera tragedies thrown in.
Throw them around in random order and it's still the same book.As often happens in Danielle Steel, the funniest stuff is totally unintentional.
A Jewish mother written by Danielle Steel, that's like looking for pizza at McDonald's.
One of the best Danielle Steel books I've read.
Not only is this book NOT about a female heroine, it's very realistic.
The main character, a man called Bernard (aka Bernie) isn't exceptionally handsome or anything, and has an over protective mother.
His luck with women isn't the best, until he found Elizabeth O'Reily!
His mother, or should is say, his JEWISH mother, didn't approve of her at first due to the simple fact that Liz isn't Jewish.
Later on though she learns to accept her and love her.
(Liz has a daughter).Anyways, long story short, this story talks about a man's journey through life.
i loved that this book was written from a man's perspective, and such a great guy! i've moved away from romance-type novels, but this will always be one of my faves. oh, i guess a small warning: i cried and cried!!! (still a wonderful book though)
Fine Things by Danielle SteelBernie starts out as a jock in high school, goes to college, avoids the draft and ends up in a clothing store-the owner loves his ideas.Years later and relationships later we find him living on the west coast running another store.
He first sees the little girl and falls in love with her, then meets the mother and they start a relationship, get married months laterand move to NY where she finds out she is pregnant.
The ex reurfaces and Liz ends up with cancer...Life spirals out of control when the twists and turns stop.
It pulled out all of the saddest stops, and it successfully became only the second book ever to make me cry.I love that the main character is a male, based on everything he goes through.
This is something I'd typically read happening to a woman.
Steel throws all of the most devastating happenings possible at this character and you can't help but feel sorry for him.
I know Steel has the reputation for being over-the-top and cheesy, but it works.
I was sad for the book to end.
I'll definitely be reading more of her.
Fine Things, Danielle Steelعنوان: سالهای تلخ و شیرین زندگی؛ نویسنده: دانیل استیل؛ مترجم: قدیر گلکاریان؛ تهران، نشر سمور، 1372، 424 ص، عنوان دیگر: تلخ و شیرین؛ عشق و زندگیاز متن: آن روز صبحگاهان رسیدن به خیابان 63 بسیار دشوار بود. باد شدیدی میوزید و کولاک به غیر از ماشینهای سنگین، همه چیز را از حرکت بازمیایستاند و بر آنها خیمه میزد. اتوبوسها کنار خیابان شماره 23 مثل دایناسورهای یخ زده ...ا. پایان متن
Life's JourneysSuper storyline and caring, loving characters. This is the first book that has affected me so. Several times I just had to stop and cry. Can't remember the last time this has happened while I was reading a book.
A tragic death followed by a nasty, patently ridiculous (and alarmingly reactionary) custody battle knock smug protagonist, Bernie Fine, down a peg or two.
Good book. Very strong character. Cry...cry....cry....
my favorite
Great book...I have never cried so hard while reading a book aside from Where a Red Fern Grows ; )
Such a sad story, made me so emotional, how one man could have such tragedy in his life and remain a good person is beyond me.
This is an older Steel book and I did enjoy it. I do find now that her books are becoming cookie cutter and I don't read all of the newer ones, unless I happen to see them at the library.
this book is my favorite Danielle Steel book,if you don't mind crying like a big baby when you read it!
THIS NOVEL IS THE FIRST AND ONLY NOVEL THAT HAS BROUGHT ME TO TEARS.
Danielle Steel isn’t one of my go-to authors, and I hadn’t read her for a long time.
“Fine Things” is a great read for practicing speed reading skills; there are four major events in the life of Bernie Fine, and they—as well as the ending—are revealed early in the book.
From there on it’s a scan from one life-altering event (mostly tragic) to the next--400+ pages of it.
All of which are easier, of course, since Bernie is richer than rich.
Someone told me that one should start every Danielle Steel book because once in a while, she creates a rose.
This has to be one of my FAVORITE Danielle Steel novels! Steel writes a heart-grabbing story of a loving man, Mr. Fine, who meets a young girl who can't find her mom. He takes this darling little one out for ice cream, where he eventually meets her mother. The rest is history (good, or bad?) If you're looking for a read that will have your whole heart and full attention, Fine Things is the next on your list.
This book was so moving. I laughed, cried, and fell in love with Jane, Liz, and Bernie. I was heartbroken when tragedy hit their new family. Such a beautiful story.
Appreciate Danielle Steel for her productivity and stories simplicity, Some time is to predictable and unrealistic. A mother which is very Jewish abruptly because a person is nice and pretty after a couple hours and leave her values. Hard to believe, in my opinion. Small frauds and a bank rubbish at the custody day also a bit predictable and unrealistic.Otherwise, there is a strong believe in love in this book.
I read this in a few days while on vacation. The main character whose last name is Fine has several relationships with beautiful women (of course), moves across the country, runs a business and lives the good life. It is a quick read and at least keeps you interested even though it is a bit predictable.
A wonderful read but a tear-jerker. Contrary to my expectations in the starting, the book was pretty much predictable after a point. However,Danielle Steel has impeccably expressed each and every phase of life- the happiness, the tragedies, fear , love etc and that's what prevented me from putting this book down until and unless I finished it.
(c)1987 Main character is Bernie Fine who works for Wolff's and working through the ranks. This is about finding love after a few horrible relationships. It is a must read. Life does throw you obstacles and in Bernie's life it happens more than once.
Really a ggodOne. Be prepared to use a large box of Kleenex with the story. U will enjoy everything about this plot. U don't even have to be irritated at characters who do or say stupid things. Or worse fail to do the right things. Enjoy a really good read.
