https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23588.J_R_R_Tolkien
Once I wrote a paper about Tolkien's art for a history of illustration class, and the TA came up to me and said in this sympathetic voice, "Oh, but he wasn't actually an artist." If only I had been holding this book at the time so I could shove it in her face.
PS: Later the professor read part of my paper to the class because it was just that good, haha.
PS #2: As regards the actual book, it's a great history of Tolkien's art, with a lot of lovely images.
I feel similar warm fuzzies when I see JK Rowling's own illustrations.
This is not one of those compilations of pictures with some perfunctory text to pass off as a "book." The writers offer some great information and insights regarding JRRT as a visionary. I highly recommend this.
Hammond demonstrates in this book the mettle of an artist is made in the way they express themselves, not solely in the single format they traditionally do it.J.R.R. Tolkien has established a modern aesthetic and mythos through his writing, he's created his own language to accompany this universe, but what sometimes gets forgotten is that the man could also draw.
This is a book dedicated to Tolkien's visual style and reveals that the man was not only a great writer, but also an accomplished artist who experimented with line, texture, color, and form over a long life of fruitful productivity.Of course I'm biased.
This book has a wealth of beautiful drawings and paintings, accompanied by well-written analysis and background information. There's also sketches, patterns and doodles, anecdotes etc. I loved it.
I came across this book in the Western Michigan University library in the process of my search for books on Tolkien's works.
This book is filled with full color plates of Tolkien's original artwork, and each chapter focuses on different aspects of his style, influences, techniques, and areas of focus.
I learned quite a bit about the things that Tolkien considered the most important in his writing through the reading about and viewing of his artwork.
I would seriously recommend this book to anyone who is either casually or academically interested in Tolkien's works.
This was really good.
Beautiful artwork/illustrations paired with insightful analysis. I enjoyed seeing the stages of his work, especially when compared with the stages of his tales and the additional insights found in his letters. Lovely. I don't typically seek out or enjoy books about artwork, but in this case it certainly added to my understanding and view of Middle Earth and allowed me to see Tolkien's other works. I gleamed from this that it is of utmost importance to see it as it comes to your mind,and I enjoyed his renditions (which at times were not much different than I originally imagined).
Fantastic collection of Tolkien's artwork. His writing deservedly gets the lion's share of praise and attention, but the man was not only immensely talented as an artist, but accomplished. Some of his artwork is absolutely gorgeous, and deserves a lot more attention both on its own merit and for its role in creating his written works.
Gorgeous book, a must for any Tolkien fan wanting more insight into the Professor’s creations. My only niggle is the layout of the illustrations- many times the text discussing a painting was several pages away from the plate with the painting, necessitating much flipping around.
(4.5 stars)I loved gaining this insight into Tolkien's illustrations and artwork--as well as their context. I'd love to own this book for future reference. Tolkien was one seriously talented man.
Lovely collection of Tolkien's artworks. I knew he'd done some drawings for his fantasy books, but didn't know that he had produced such a large body of paintings and drawings. And he's good at it, too.
Tolkien was a multi-talented artistic/linguistic master mind. This collection of his art work is truly excellent. These are seldom seen images of the visual concepts Tolkien had in mind. I found his work to be inspirational for my own art work. I have referenced this book many times.
A very nice set of illustrations by Tolkien on many subjects. The accompanying comments are for the most part helpful.
Beautiful, interesting, and indispensable.
It is clear from Tolkien's other works that while he was a master of text, he always paid very close attention to images as well, which he considered to be an essential part of the story.
While Tolkien never attempted to be an artist like Blake, it is clear that his pictures were an important part of his story, not wholly severable from the text.
Similar to Blake's work, my reaction is a feeling that sometimes you are looking at a window into an untrammelled mind's imagination, sometimes at something like a medieval illuminated manuscript, sometimes a realistic and naturalistic snapshot of a scene, and sometimes at a battle plan by a soldier in the trenches.
The book contains- as it says in the back cover- 200 pieces of art made by Tolkien, with paintings, drawings and sketches, in colour and black and white, some of which became a extention of his writing.The book is divided into 7 chapters: "Early Work", "Visions, Myths, and Legends", "Art For Children", "The Hobbit", "The Lord of The Rings", "Pattern and Devices" and "Appendix on Calligraphy".In "Early Work" we see his firsts attempts on drawing.
They focused less on the published pieces (presumably because we can see them elsewhere) than on preliminary sketches, pieces not related to specific Middle Earth writings, and ephemera, which really presented a good view of Tolkien's evolution as an artist.
Much of his imagery feeds into the Middle Earth mythos later on (especially in regards to nature scenery), so seeing this source material and having it discussed as part of the larger artistic process sets the stage for researchers, Tolkien-enthosiasts, and other artists/writers.
The most illuminating topic of this book for me is the discussion of Tolkien's influence on the design process for the appreance for his books.
Beautiful reproductions of Tolkien's artwork, from his earliest surviving works to his last.
Although many of the images have been reproduced in a variety of other books, many more are presented for the first time (when originally published).Tolkien was typically dismissive of his ability as an artist, and whilst he is sometimes correct in that self-evaluation, to the appreciative reader of his stories, to have the visual interpretations of these imagined worlds from the hand of the mind that fashioned them is an immeasurable gift.
How fortunate we are that his evident delight in the creation of his artworks overcame his too critical judgement.Hammond's and Scull's text is scholarly, but not dry, and gives context to Tolkien's art that is sure to interest (if not delight) any Tolkienista.
I am of course very familiar with Tolkien's work as a writer, but had no idea that he had such talent as an artist.
My fiance gave me this book for the holidays knowing that I had a deep appreciation for Tolkien's mythology.
The authors explore Tolkien's work both in terms of his mythology and his life.
His artistic expression includes not only images of his mythology but also impressions and illustrations from the different locations he visited and lived in.
It is a wonderful book to explore Tolkien's abilities of creation and execution, and a must read for any fan of the Lord of the Rings.
I am fascinated by Tolkien's watercolour artwork and it is well featured in this book. I learned a lot about his early works and his process of illustrating The Hobbit. The authors emphasize the fact that Tolkien was insecure about his own work. Some people criticized his illustrations of The Hobbit for being imperfect. This is what makes them interesting in my opinion. I was disappointed to learn that he stopped making watercolour artwork after this project. I wished to see more of it.
fuck all those hildebrandt paintings and other artists turning tolkien characters into trading cards and calendars. this is j.r.r.'s vision and has almost no people in it, as it should be, so you can use your own imagination.too bad it wasn't possible to make the lord of the rings movie without showing any characters...
Meh. I liked the drawings and doodles. Some were quite whimsical. Some I could imagine Tolkien sketching so he could remember where he wanted things to be in his tales.Honestly, I got so bored by the accompanying text (and there's a lot more of it than pictures) that I quit reading and just looked at the art. I probably missed a lot of tidbits of info and insights, but I'm happy despite that.
I Love Tolkien's books and I think I know well that he was a very remarkable author/artist/calligrapher. Err...Wrong! I did not expect it to be so amazing. He was an excellent illustrator and designer.  J. R. R. Tolkien : Artist & Illustrator is everything it should be. A wonderful collection of Tolkien's artwork from early years to Silmarillion. It's so fascinating.
This semi-biographical book offers a glimpse into Tolkien's life and his creative mind, as well as interesting insights in the behind-the-scenes writing of his famous works.
Scholarly, informative and detailed. Clearly if unimaginatively set. Gives due and proper priority to the visual matter.
GOOD WORK BY J.R.R.TOLKIEN
Fascinating. I'd go as far as to say this is a "must-read."
A great addition to the library for the complete Tolkien fan. Others won't see the point.
A delightful glimpse into a side of Tolkien many don't know about. Very fun and rewarding to read!
My first Wayne G. Hammond and Christina Scull book about Tolkien. It's fantastic. It shows Tolkien's range as an artist and not only as a writter.
