https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1320195.Moment_in_Peking
读最后一章的时候竟然激动地哭了。一方见寰宇，一刻化永恒。值得每一个中国人从这本书中去体会自己的“身份”，也推荐给外国朋友去真正地了解中国，认清一些近代东亚历史。
Тя e само разказъ за това, какъ съвременнитѣ мѪже и жени израстватъ и се подготвятъ да живѣятъ едни съ други, какъ любятъ и мразятъ, какъ се борятъ и прощаватъ, какъ страдатъ и се радватъ, какъ се образуватъ навици за мислене и животъ и какъ, най-после, всички се приспособяватъ къмъ обстоятелствата въ тоя земенъ свѣтъ, гдето хората се борятъ, а боговетѣ управляватъ."Преводът на Невяна Розева е безупречен, не знам дали съм чел нещо по-възхитително, откакто съзнателно обръщам внимание на тази част.
Ще чета още и Лин Ютан, и Невяна Розева."Ако говорите въ Пекингъ оживено за политически или обикновени житейски събития, ще покажете само едно: че сте недостатъчно културенъ и напраздно сте живѣли в Пекингъ.
Lin Yutang was then considering introducing “Dream of the red chamber” to the Western world, but he wrote this novel “Moment in Peking” instead due to following reasons.
Among all characters in this novel, I like Old Yao the best, then his daughter Mulan and the second son-in-law, Lifu.
Lin Yutang certainly has the wisdom, the poetic temperament, and great tolerance for life.
Born with a whimsical but easygoing temperament, she is like her father, longs for simplicity of life and security of family, but time won’t allow it—her daughter died in the student demonstration and her only son joined the army, swearing not coming back until they drive Japan into the sea.
"Humane, informative, reflective, fun"After being interested in reading a novel about China for the first time, I came across a Canadian art teacher who has been living in China for the last 10 years.
The culture was a very big part of this first section and I learned many things that are not so easy to find out in a museum in actual times.
The most interesting of this section was the historical changes occurring in the background: the Manchurian government, the foreign influence, the changes that were happening around or characters and how these started to affect them ; their culture and believes.
I liked the book a lot better than the series.
While the characters seem to hold love in a different light, and were very traditional, it was compliant with the people of that time and the way they dealt with love.
The novel spans a long time period, where the children of the characters have already grown up.
For me, it was an enjoyable read, something I wouldn't mind rereading, and I was especially surprised to find that the novel was originally in English.
But I usually try to read a novel in its original language, so I was glad it was in English, as reading Chinese seems to take me much more time.
Lin, Yutang is a brilliant Chinese writer who wrote countless good books in Chinese and in English. He was even nominated for Nobel prize in literature in 40s. He wrote moments in Peking first in English, then it was translated into Chinese. I first read it in Chinese in the 1980s. I re-read it in English two years ago. It is a great book for people who want to learn a little about China's past. The book described the life of a few ordinary but well-educated Chinese upper middle class familys' life from late 1800s to 1930s.
One day their father, a wealthy man working as general manager of a supermarket chain, gave me an old, dust-covered book, Moment in Peking.
Reading Moment in Peking is to have a glimpse of life in the pre-communist world of my father and his migrant generation before they left the old country.On writing this novel, Dr Lin Yutang says: What is a novel but “a little talk,” as the name hsiaoshuo implies?
This was just wonderful. Somuch detail about the History of the last 150 years in China but told through the story of a great and i teresting family.

情节发展在意料之中，人物心理活动挖掘方面也不深刻，作者自称是模仿红楼梦做的创作，但实在相差甚远，只是一个时代动乱之中的故事，并没有什么深度，不少同类作品都写得比这个好，被捧得这么高，是因为是用英语写作的？
A magazine once commented on this book as another version of the Dream of Red Mansions.
An epic account of the fall of the old China and how lives of common and rich are touched by the war.a must read
Take A Sip of Chinese CultureMoment in Peking is a Chinese historical novel of grandeur, which depicts the love and hatred among four families, the Yaos, Zengs, Kongs and Nius, and how they contrive to survive and live admist the chaos and turmoils from late Qing dynasty to the end of the anti-Japanese War, a period of nearly half a century when China was stuck to foreign invasions.
Lin Yutang, author of Moments in Peking, writes this novel as part of his efforts for the transmission of Chinese culture and values to the Occidental world.
It is a Chinese novel written in English by its author when he was assured that it would be the Chinese "Gone with the Wind." In many ways, it's probably more honest and less harmful.
The book as a piece of literature is a sort of ugly hybrid that has been created from the DNA of an Austen comedy, an American romance, and the sprawling histories written about the twentieth century.
If Jane Austen had decided to tell Pride and Prejudice and describe the Napoleonic Wars at the same time, while studying the differences between Puritan and Anglican thought within the house, then the book would have some sort of equal.
This novel about several upper class families living in Peking takes us from the Boxer Rebellion (1904), through the collapse of the last dynasty, through civil war and chaos,to the beginning of outright war with Japan (1938).
Throughout this period, the families do their best to live in the traditional ways, while confronting modernization and exploitation by foreign powers, both European and Asiatic.
This is a little curious considering the considerable troubles that China was going through (and after 1938, things got much worse).
It was fascinating to me in how it portrayed life in China in everything from a walk in the park to a weddings and marriages in well to do families, as well as the complicated relationships between parents, daughters, daughters-in-law, concubines, and maids.
It is a family saga, and a well-done one: Pearl Buck called it "the Great Novel of Modern China." It is long, and I enjoyed it by reading it in sections, one chunk at a time, but maybe that is just me.
This book was very long, to say the least, but the language is straightforward and engaging, and each of the characters described sympathetically, no matter who they were, and in a very compassionate manner.
The author does seem to have succeeded in what he attempted- a modern day Hong Luo Meng describing the four beauties of Beijing, but it's nuanced in such a way that it also captures China.
Very good- much better than Shanghai Girls or any of that depressing stuff not written by actual Chinese people.
This is an extraordinary historical novel.In 1900, ten-year-old Mulan begins a dangerous overland voyage from Peking to Hangzhou with her family as they try to escape the chaos of the Boxer Rebellion.
The story then follows Mulan (and numerous other characters) all the way up until the Japanese invasion of China in the late 30's.This period of Chinese history is full of political and social changes.
Lin traces the evolution through Mulan and several families.
He was particularly interested in the social changes affecting girls and women, as more affluent families started sending their daughters to school, etc.The narrative is very compelling, and gives readers a fascinating view of China in the early 20th century.
I actually read this book in Mandarin, when I was about 10 years old and I was fascinated by the author's portrayal of the characters living in China at the turn of the 20th century, I think.
I'll always remember bringing the book to school one time and my teacher asked me what it was about, no doubt thinking here I was a little girl in yr 5 reading such a serious looking foreign book haha.
I've re-read it many times since and still find it as enjoyable as the first time I read it.
This book is a classic. It talks about the history of China before the communist take over. The story was centered on the family of Mulan, their lifestyle, and their story of survival. I recommend to anyone to read this book. My only copy of this book was borrowed and was never returned to me. But, I love the story. Lin Yutang was a great author. Too bad he was nominated several times for nobel literature, but did not win.
This was my Grandfather's favorite book of all time, and for that reason, I felt a great appreciation for the literature. It is a long book which sometimes, to me, felt like it was dragging, and the language of the book requires extra effort to absorb. But it is a lovely story of humanity and devotion. I will likely not read it again, but I'm glad I finished the book.
I read this while living in Beijing in 2001. It was one of the few books in English that I could get my hands on, and I was transported. I really felt like it added to my understanding of the place I was living in, and it certainly filled in a few gaps in my knowledge of history.I tried reading it again later, when I was home, but found it hard to get into.
It was purely coincidental finish reading after China 70th V anniversary. In this book you will know the truth that happened in China at that time. What we suffered during that period. But some country still don't want to face the history. I don't care who is right or wrong, i just know you still owe us an apologize.
I read this book years ago, but just reading the title of it brings me to a place of beauty and love mixed with sacrifice and pain. I love books that take place in historical Japan and China. This one was in a war-torn China. If you like historical fiction and beautiful writing you will like this book. Terrific writing!
Ontzettend vol met details en kleine druk maken het lezen wel een beetje vermoeiend soms. Leesclub Taipei 2008/2009. Boek besproken tijdens lunch in Lin Yutang-huis op Yangde Boulevard (Taipei-Yangmingshan)
An absolute peach of a read. The kind of book holding wisdom to transcend the ages and surmount cultural barriers. Nearly every passage spoke to me on a seemingly personal level. Perfection! As informative as it is delightful. Engaging beyond measue, yet oddly instructive in its subtle ways.
I didn't finish this book, because it was extremely long and the plot line moves slowly, but it's not because I didn't like it. I was predisposed to dislike it, but I found it quite interesting, instead. Absolutely nothing inappropriate.
Classics!
最明亮时总是最迷茫，这繁华时也是最悲凉。
I remember struggling through this book, but by the end I was crying.
