https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71722.High_School_English_Grammar_and_Composition
This book is the bible for English grammer and each comment a holy gospel.The book was an essential part through out the high school and helped shape the understanding of the English language. Each facet of grammer was explained and was substantiated by an excersise to re-enforce the lesson learnt.And just out of nostalgia, I have ordered a brand new copy along with the key.
As a result, the so-called "educators" who write the workbooks are really trying to impart knowledge about something that is, at best, their second or even third language, all overlaid with the basic Chinese simplicity regarding verbs and grammar.HSEG&C, however, is another matter entirely, an English subject textbook written by English-language natives (Wren & Martin) for British children residing in India, and revised by an Indian (NDV Prasada Rao).
My mom thought I could use this one when I was in grade 9 at school. Didn't use this one much though, except for the idioms I think.
amazing
Have to carry this book everyday during school. So many memories associated with it. Simple to read, easy to follow.
VERY GOOD
this book is very helpful for English grammar.
insha allah
a must read book for becoming good in grammar. the Multicolour edition has funny cartoons so it will interest the children
I have also a copy of (HIGH SCHOOL GRAMMAR AND COMPOSITION) which I purchased few months ago from Karachi. I found the book very informative in respect of rules of GRAMMAR. I sincerely suggest to each and every student to study it once.
about grammer
i want to read this book.
grammer
Good book to learn Grammar
what is subject,verb and agreement?
English Grammer
hjj n,w
this is nice book
helpful for grammar improvement.
A good, comprehensive grammar book. Fascinating in a boring kind of way -- is that the hallmark of a good textbook?
Started
one of the best English grammar book nonnative English speakers.
i want to read this book online for readin
its very good book and i want this
nice
khhjgu
i want to read it verly clearly ....and try to understan dthe whole book
can i read this book with this app????? i don't know how to open the book using goodreads
i read this book,,& i know somethings this book...
