https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3720746-kew-gardens
Only Woolf can write about ordinary things in such a short story and make you long for more. She easily moves from one subject to another in a natural way. You can imagine Kew Gardens on this summers day. Feel the sun, see the colours of the flowers, subject you to the struggle of the snail to move forward, see and hear the people strolling around. Actually there happens quite of nothing but she makes it look like a great deal. That's the capacity of a really great author.
Kew Gardens  is my first short story read of Virginia Woolf.
I think only Virginia can write such an abstract story with mastery.
I have always observed that Virginia does not write proper stories.
The beauty in this short work lies in Virginia's writing.
But I felt that her writing is even grander in this short work.
I'm certain it is much due to the setting being the beautiful Botanical Gardens of Kew which gave her ample material to weave her imaginary brush with many beautiful and colorful paintings.
Virginia Woolf always leave me in awe after reading her, and I experienced that same wonder after reading Kew Gardens.
"Doesn't one always think of the past, in a garden with men and women lying under the trees?
Aren't they one's past, all that remains of it, those men and women, those ghosts lying under the trees…one's happiness, one's reality?"Kew Gardens is a beautifully, charming story from Virginia Woolf.
With several edits it could easily fit within Woolf's Mrs. Dalloway or her Mrs. Dalloway's Party: A Short Story Sequence.Woolf, once more, revisits her favorite themes of passion, desire, love, and regret; in short, Woolf turns her perceptive again on humanity, using stream of consciousness.
However, that is not the end of these trio of colours as they crop up again later: “In the oval flower bed the snail, whose shell had been stained red, blue, and yellow for the space of two minutes or so, now appeared to be moving very slightly in its shell, and next began to labour over the crumbs of loose earth which broke away and rolled down as it passed over them.” Here is one more extract that mentions lots of lovely colours: “Yellow and black, pink and snow white, shapes of all these colours, men, women, and children were spotted for a second upon the horizon, and then, seeing the breadth of yellow that lay upon the grass, they wavered and sought shade beneath the trees, dissolving like drops of water in the yellow and green atmosphere, staining it faintly with red and blue.” Mr. Snail seems to be playing an important part in this story as he keeps popping up again and again.
It's incredible how such a short story can make you realise about daily-life stuff. Especially loved the way she described nature. "Yellow and black, pink and snow white, shapes of all these colours, men, women, and children were spotted for a second upon the horizon, and then, seeing the breadth of yellow that lay upon the grass, they wavered and sought shade beneath the trees, dissolving like drops of water in the yellow and green atmosphere, staining it faintly with red and blue."
Interesting: Mother Nature's creatures/forces criss-cross with human visitors... and make for far lovelier writing material than the complicated, arrogant dummies we are. "But in the man those gestures were irresolute and pointless. He talked almost incessantly. He smiled to himself and again began to talk, as if the smile had been an answer."Nailed it.
[3.5]
A typical Virginia Woolf short story in which the stream of consciousness technique is masterfully employed. Very poetic with a high level of intricacy.
It's like going for a walk at Kew Gardens with Virginia Woolf. And the snail <3 And the reflection about silence in the end.
You read people walking around the garden, telling their past, and a snail moving across a leaf.
Personally, trace back to WW1, I think the snail is a metaphor to all people mentioned in Kew Gardens.
Didn’t the snail looked exactly like those people?
Besides, it’s the best explanation to me that the snail metaphor those people about their life after WW1.
The most interesting part to me is Simon and Eleanor, where Eleanor mentioned “one’s happiness, one’s reality.” It’s such a complicated quote if you really wanted to go deep into it.
This beautifully written short story takes place on a summer day in Kew Gardens just outside of London. An example of the descriptive prose, "The petals were voluminous enough to be stirred by the summer breeze, and when they moved, the red, blue and yellow lights passed one over the other, staining an inch of the brown earth beneath with a spot of the most intricate colour." Perhaps I loved this book as it was reminiscent of a lovely day we spent in Kew Gardens.
Opening line: 'From the oval-shaped flower-bed there rose perhaps a hundred stalks spreading into heart-shaped or tongue-shaped leaves half way up and unfurling at the tip red or blue or yellow petals marked with spots of colour raised upon the surface; and from the red, blue or yellow gloom of the throat emerged a straight bar, rough with gold dust and slightly clubbed at the end.'
Still a little iffy on what I should be taking away from this story (perhaps another read through or two), but I love that people-watching snail!
While there is nothing in common with the pretentious academics and the mumbling older women, but one undeniable theme recognised throughout the short story is no matter who you are or what values you hold, the beauty of nature is always something to stop for and admire.I believe that while vibrancy like the flowers shown here is something that is no longer accessible in suburban places where this book was initially set, nature should be something that everyone should seek to enjoy, every day of their lives.
Virginia Woolf is a master of observation. She goes from the world about her to the smallest snail struggling along the ground. She discusses time and the occupations she sees. Although it can be seen as a metaphor for writing (like her Haunted Street piece), the idea is to take everything and detail it to make it realistic (as with Joyce's novels). It is nice to read an author who cares so much about the little things, even though they are quite boring in that mundanity.
"The snail had now considered every possible method of reaching his goal without going round the dead leaf or climbing over it. Let alone the effort needed for climbing a leaf, he was doubtful whether the thin texture which vibrated with such an alarming crackle when touched even by the tip of his horns would bear his weight; and this determined him finally to creep beneath it, for there was a point where the leaf curved high enough from the ground to admit him."
A really enjoyable short story, not so much for the plot but more for the gloriously atmospheric descriptive passages of the hot July afternoon spent by the characters in Kew Gardens. The illustrations by Livi Mills perfectly compliment this new edition (although I am kicking myself for not buying the Vanessa Bell illustrated reprint that came out about 17 years ago!).
Elegant descriptions and lovely little cameos of the strollers.
4 stars! For a description of random people strolling in a stupid garden and their thoughts!Well, Woolf is that good.
The whole picture for me shows the loneliness we all, humans in general, are suffering.
My favorite quote of this part is Eleanor's explanation: Doesn't one always think of the past, in a garden with men and women lying under the trees?
Aren't they one's past, all that remains of it, those men and women, those ghosts lying under the trees .
one's happiness, one's reality?"'Second two men, old and young, come.
They are just beginning to learn the rules.
A snail's point of view which in my opinion shows perfectly the absurdness of things, people and situations.
"Doesn't one always think of the past, in a garden with men and women lying under the trees? Aren't they one's past, all that remains of it, those men and women, those ghosts lying under the trees…one's happiness, one's reality?"
2.5/5
An amazing description and a beautiful writing!
45. Kew Gardens by Virginia Woolf; (5*); hardcopy; WA; REGARDING V.W.I picked up this slim volume last evening after a long and stressful day. With it, Virginia Woolf took me into another world. A world of simplicity, serenity, of colors, shapes, shades and images the like of which I have never before 'seen'. The mental images she could put onto paper are beyond description. Pure genius. I will never look at a snail with the same eyes again.
Sophistically beautiful.
Snippets of characters lives and conversations are peered into as they pass the spot where the snail moves slowly across a plant, but never are those conversations explored.
By returning to the snail and creating the detail around one spot, it is almost as though we are there in the scene.
For me personally, I imagined Kew Gardens as the museum gardens in York last summer on one of the hottest days of the year.
Because of this is it is very difficult to forget and incredibly easy to look at other things and wonder why anyone would attempt writing when we can just read Woolf all day.
honestly i only liked the descriptions of the garden... and since it was an impressionistic piece, it was pretty interesting that Woolf had this "play of light" which is mostly a technique in painting, in her piece.
This is a story that was written to illustration. I loved it. We sometimes do not recognise and ever are blind to the greatness of things like flowers and parks. We take for granted their colours and their beauty. Well this text does justice to small things. And transform them in text, which gives them their fair due. I think this is a text that deserves to be read. It certainly will not appeal to all. But I'm sure if you like literature, and arts and beauty. You will enjoy this great short story. 5 stars.
I like the nature descriptions, very detailed and beautiful. Specially when she described the landscape in front of the snail in a big scale. She fooled me it was a real tree. Through my human eyes it was just a leaf, though not in the eyes of the snail. For such a beautiful and short story it's actually pretty bold in it's topics. I didn't know that the new age movement were a thing back then already, and also arousal for those newly in love. I wanna read more from Virginia Wolf now!
When you have to read the same book over and over again, work 24/7 on it to do an analisys essay, for a uni subject you don't really enjoy, your consideration and patience for that book starts to shimmer down... yeah.. that. It was good nontheless, and the first perfect read if you want to enter the unique world that is Virginia Woolf.
