https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/599246.How_to_Draw_Comics_the_Marvel_Way
If you are looking for a book that will show you how to draw The Mighty Thor, Spiderman, The Incredible Hulk, or even Captain America's Shield... well, this book isn't that one.It's not a step by step guide on how to draw characters. It's a step by step guide on how to draw THE MARVEL WAY!!And what does that mean?Well, I thought it was going to show me how to draw Spidey and Shellhead, and Cap.  But no... IT shows you how to ink, draw action, start with stick figures, where to position, and what
well, this book isn't that one.It's not a step by step guide on how to draw characters.
It's a step by step guide on how to draw THE MARVEL WAY!!And what does that mean?Well, I thought it was going to show me how to draw Spidey and Shellhead, and Cap.
IT shows you how to ink, draw action, start with stick figures, where to position, and what draws attention.
I even drew a stick figure or two.Lately, my son and I have been bonding over superheros and while I don't have the attention-span to draw the Marvel Way....
This is a very good little figure drawing book.
I keep several copies of it out on TAKS testing days and kids with little to no drawing experience will happily follow the step by step to draw Spidey, but is is not just a step to step book.
My first figure drawing prof in college recommended this book to college level beginners.
I have not found a better $13 figure drawing book - though it used to be $7.
Written for beginners where some of the later marvel drawing books assume you know a good deal.
Classic instruction which started many artists on that long path (I bought a used copy, myself, as a child). Combine with a little Loomis, Hogarth, and some figure drawing and you are on your way to being a real talent.This is pretty much an introduction to the Marvel 'house style' at the time, but certainly still applicable. My Suggested Readings in Comics
When I was young, every little boy I knew wanted to draw comics (these days many little girls do too, and that’s awesome) but I had a serious advantage over all of them.
The coolest thing about HTDCTMW is It’s really a book about visual story telling that happens to use the comic book idiom.
Notes: With regard to anatomy; this book only deals with idealized figure construction, but that’s fine because it was intended for a young audience that might find life drawing techniques both confining and tedious.
Was kinda surprised to bump into this book on GR while adding comics.
I remember reading this, or rather looking through it when I was a little kid.
I used to draw stuff, build stuff, do stuff.
God, I wanna relive those days.This book brought back memories of those days.
Reminded me that I actually used to draw.
I do remember loving this book.
I even created a couple of my own comic strips.
Might have been pathetic, but the fact the I created them cheers me up.
I should have the superheros I tried drawing lying somewhere around at home.
Excellent instruction by the master.R.I.P., Stan :-(
As a child and teenager my favorite art was the comic book.
As I could draw a little I thought becoming a comic book arist would be the greatest.
I picked up this volume and found it to be a pretty good book on a lot of drawing essentials.
Sure some of the prose is bombastic in typical Stan Lee style, but the lessons in the book are clear, concise, and important principles.
Eventually my style changed and I moved away from comic book art.
However you can still see the influence of comic books and this guide in my work today.
For good or ill, this book taught me how to draw figures. Over the years I kept going back to it and trying again, getting farther and gaining confidence. We'll see if it ever culminates in an actual printed comic of my own :) I'm sure it will, even if I'm 80 years old, sitting on the back porch, still holding onto the dream.
I loved and devoured this book when I was a kid (in the original edition). Alas, my drawing skills never quite developed and I put more energy into the stories than into the drawings. Still, it was a step on the path to making me an author, and I still think Buscema was one of the strongest draftsmen Marvel ever had.
Obviously, this isn't a lecture as well, more like a practicing-tip guide for the comicbook artist to develop and improve the talent, getting the way that Marvel does it's work (at least, in the golden years) and it's narrated by Stan Lee himself. It doesn't get any better than that.
This book is great for those that want to learn more about creating comics. All of the techniques are presented in a straight forward manner and is easy to understand for those, like myself, who are not artistically inclined.
Easily the best How to Draw book I've read. Lays everything out in an easy to digest manner... And back in the 90s when I read it, you really could see the difference with the Marvel style (not so much now though)
When I was in seventh grade, I studied this book from cover to cover and improved my drawing and visual storytelling skills dramatically. It was great then and remains so- John Buscema was an absolutely brilliant comics artist.
In my copy, a figure drawing of Sue Reed is covered in a grisly patchwork of crayon scribbles of clashing colors, and an action sketch of Spiderman delivering a punch is captioned "soprmarn" in a semiliterate scrawl.
This got me drawing again for the first time since primary school, mainly by pointing out a few basic things I'd somehow never known - for one thing that drawings are things you can build, rather than just putting pencil to paper and creating masterpieces on the spot.
I really don't - balancing two jobs is hard enough!
I'm annoyed that Black Widow's not there because really I wanted to draw her as part of my gift for a birthday present for a friend but I can't and I don't even have the skills to do it.
This book jumps from step 1-9 and for a novice (like myself), its too hard.
I don't have any skills and this book doesn't take that into account.So yeah.
A little annoyed and frustrated.
A great, classic “how to draw” book. Definitely for beginners, but there are handy, comic book specific tips for artists to utilize, too. Worth having for classic drawing techniques explained in a fun and simple way.
It's Stan 'The Man'
Pretty dated, and quite superficial in most of the topics covered, but still has some good information for beginners.
All you'll ever need as an artist. Basically my bible.
Everything.
The classic introduction to drawing comics in the Marvel style.
good book
reminds me of my childhood, what a great book
To give him credit, Lee does reiterate the point that becoming a cartoonist takes practice, time and sweat...but it would have been nice if he had sat down with me as an eleven-year-old and said "You can do it, but don't expect it to be easy and don't think you're going to have to go to some very dark places before you'll start to see the light." With regards to the content of the book, you couldn't have a better guide.
This book, although intended for initiates is better suited to people who have been working with panels for a few years and need a boost, a refresher, and a bit of Marvel pizazz.
It remains a clear, concise guide to the basics.But it's interesting rereading this and Scott McCloud's Making Comics or Will Eisner's Comics and Sequential Art back to back, because it HtDCtMW does exactly what the title suggests: it teaches you how to draw in the Kirby-esque house style of late-seventies Marvel Comics without discussing (and in some cases actually discouraging experimentation with) other ways to draw comics.
If you need to distinguish between women characters, better hope they have different hairstyles.But aside from my own history learning to draw by trying the examples and challenges in HtDCtMW, it was really the first of its kind and kicked off important discussions about what comics could do and what constituted doing them well.
Genre: how-toIntended audience: artists, aspiring artists, and comic lovers alike, ages 8+Age range: realistically appropriate for readers ages 10+Summary: In Chapter 1, Stan Lee and John Buscema provide lists of supplies and materials, and important vocabulary terms and techniques, necessary to draw one's own comics using the trademark Marvel style.
Chapters 2-12 delve into technique, offering details about drawing with perspective, shaping bodies and heads, inking, cover art, page layouts, and other aspects of creating comics.
Personal Response: The most admirable aspect of this how-to is that the techniques it details apply to pretty much any artistic style, not just comic books.
The first one is that the book isn't very much for beginners.
It does explain a bit about drawing the human figure, faces, composition and many other things, but it looks more like a reminder than a guide for beginners.
This book is about drawing comics, and I might have some interest on the topic, but I wanted to learn how to draw from imagination first.
But not a very good book for just drawing for the sake of it.Summarizing, this book, although enjoyable, didn't help me as it isn't suited for beginners.
In one crucial section, he covers how to tell stories dramatically via changing camera angles and body language - something film directors would also find useful.This book has been derided for decades by those (mainly indie cartoonists) who argue that drawing comics the Marvel way isn't the only way.
GREAT BOOK.
WHEN I FIRST GOT IT AND ONE SIMILAR TO IT OVER 30 YEARS AGO ALL I DREW WERE GIRLS, THEN ALL MY FRIENDS KEPT PUSHING ME TO DRAW FROM THE BOOK, SO I MADE EVERYTHING BIGGER AND BETTER, MORE MUSCLE, BIGGER BREAST, WHEN I WENT TO MARVEL, AS A KID, I GOT TURNED DOWN 3 TIMES BY THAT GUY THAT GOT FIRED LATER ON,,, JIM SHOOTER.
LATER I LEARNED THAT EVERYONE WAS COPYING MY ART.
