https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19300931-a-martian-odyssey
This short story by Stanley G. Weinbaum proves that it is not about the number of pages or words in a story/book - what matters is the passion and potency of the imagination!In about 30 pages, Stanley G. Weinbaum takes you to Mars and then on an amazing journey. First published in 1934, A Martian Odyssey is about one of the experiences of the famous crew of the Ares expedition - the first human beings to set foot on the mysterious neighbor of the earth, the planet Mars. A science fiction classic!
An astronaut on Mars got separated from his crew members after he wrecked his rocket and has to take a long and perilous walk back to safety and his mother-ship.If this sounds familiar and reminds you of  The Martian , you’re not mistaken. There are indeed quite a few similarities between the two stories, and I wonder if Andy Weir took some inspiration from Weinbaum’s work.Stanley G. Weinbaum’s short story first got published in 1934 in a science fiction magazine called Wonder Stories. Although
There are indeed quite a few similarities between the two stories, and I wonder if Andy Weir took some inspiration from Weinbaum’s work.Stanley G.
Weinbaum’s short story first got published in 1934 in a science fiction magazine called Wonder Stories.
The most interesting one, apart from the main protagonist Jarvis (the “Mark Watney” of the story), was the alien named Tweel.
Interestingly enough there is also a good German among the ship’s crew, the engineer Putz, who is talking in the typical German accent.Weinbaum’s writing is very efficient and I would like to read more of his stories.
Wonderful to read an 84-year-old SFnal representation of *truly* alien consciousnesses, explicitly made to be so by the author. It was hokey to have a Mars setting, but 84 years ago not quite as hokey as it would be today.Tweel's character is a hoot. I would love to meet this boop-snoot! And there's a twist at the end of the story that sums up humanity and colonialism right tidily. *sigh*
Or maybe because I read it in a waiting room and it managed to make me laugh out loud.
Not LOL, but for real, with sound, laughing out loud, in public, in an otherwise quiet place.I made the mistake of reading a few bad reviews.
Our narrator is a pretty full of himself astronaut that has encountered other life on Mars.
He explains the attempts at communication and empathy and actually makes a friend of sorts.What's so funny is just how conceited and holier than thou our narrator and his listeners are.
Actually, this would make a genius SNL skit!
Although the current times may have overtaken their technology dreams, some of the concepts and questions are still valid (see Asimov's laws of robotic).
This short story is addressing the different nature of alien life.
While Weinbaum may not have known that the atmosphere of Mars in not breathable, he should be aware, though that the Earth seen from Mars (as in inner planet) can never be seen in the zenith.The story is an easy, rather entertaining and short lecture.
But I will not spend the effort to read (Valley Of Dreams), which apparently is a sequel to this story.
Mükemmel. Her bilimkurgu sever okumalı.
Oh, my God. This story was disgusting.
And I don't mean gross.
I mean an abomination of a tale.
I know, I know...it was written in the 1930s.
This story wasn't only poorly written, cocky, highly- and offensively-racist, it was an imperial and colonial orgasm in the worst pornographic way.
The main character might as well have been Zapp Brannigan from Futurama, and his exploits with Martian aliens would have made early British colonials 'taming' the Congo look like present day UN model diplomats.
This story has zero appeal for today's audiences, and is as dated as the abacus.
A expedition to Mars which Weinbaum imagines as a dry desert with thin but breathable air and low gravity.
One of the expedition members is separated from the others and this is his recounted story about his (first contact) meeting with a sentient alien, an ostrich-like being, Tweel, who manages to learn half a dozen words of English and communicate quite complex concepts, but at the end of the encounter human and Martian are no closer to understanding each other than they were at the beginning.
Mars is there to pillage for whatever the humans can appropriate.
-Una buena ocasión para demostrar que las perspectivas cambian con el tiempo.-Género. Relatos.Lo que nos cuenta. Seis relatos del prematuramente malogrado y no demasiado conocido autor, mayoritariamente de Ciencia-Ficción y que tocan, entre otros temas, el extraño y peligroso ecosistema venusiano, las matemáticas para escapar de un loco homicida, una isla con criaturas extrañas, la exploración de Marte y una mujer con capacidades metahumanas. Relatos escritos entre 1934 y 1936, varios publicados de manera póstuma, y editados en diferentes antologías y recopilaciones a lo largo de los años.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
No conocía a este autor, pero navegando en los podcast de ivoox en una de mis suscripciones, me apareció este cuento de ciencia ficción, y para variar decidí darle una oportunidad.
Y no me he arrepentido, al contrario, esta es una de mis lecturas favoritas del año.
Tenemos un viaje a marte, y una gran aventura cruzando las distintas zonas del planeta narradas por el personaje principal, Jarvis, quien conocerá distintas criaturas en este planeta misterioso.He de decir que disfruté mucho con cada nueva especie que hacía aparición, quizás mis favoritos han sido los últimos, además de Tweel.
Very nice, sort of funny, old fashioned.
A Martian Odyssey by Stanley G. Weinbaum (1934) was a lot of fun. It deals with life on other planets, this time (as so often back then) on Mars. What I liked about the story was that it was open for different form of life (not just carbon based lifeforms) and it dealt with interesting aspect of language. It also shows the limitless faith people had in science and what we could find in space. The story is out dated but it is still very charming and entertaining.
Honestly, I am speechless as to how much I loved this book. Stanley Weinbaum has a fantastic imagination and my type of quirky since of humor. I laughed through the whole book! There were parts I literally had tears dripping off my face because I could not for the life of me stop laughing. The characters he told about were fascinating, and their inner workings so detailed that they seemed real. It's amazing how his words can paint such a beautifully detailed, incredibly funny, and exciting story. To me, this story was brilliant and inspiring.
A quirky little story that is far from Weinbaum's best, it has some interesting allusions in terms of life on Mars. Some of the characters are annoying, the story's pretty much told in flashback, so it got a bit confusing here and there. Nothing insurrmountable, but the tale's not one I'd go out of my way to recommend to anyone.
Un excelente libro para iniciar la lectura de ciencia ficción. Las historias son tan originales y bien contadas. Me gustó mucho como para recomendarlo a cualquier lector independientemente de su preferencia en género literario.
A fascinating look at the starts of modern science-fiction. Imaginative in setting and scope; comfortingly formulaic in plot. Would have given it 4 stars but the echoes of early 20th century views on race (in only one paragraph though) were jarring and stayed with me after reading the story.
Fun readThis was a fun read, but dated. I do not know much about this story or the author, but this seemed to be a small part of a larger story. Some stories may have some loose ends; this is nothing but loose ends!
সটযানলি ওয়েইনবাম কে সাইনস ফিকশনের পায়োনিয়ারদের একজন কেন ধরা হয় সেটা বুঝতে হলে বইটা অবশযই পড়তে হবে। দু:খজনক বযাপার হলো লেখক মাতর ৩২ বছর বয়সে মারা গিয়েছেন, আর কিছুদিন বেচে থাকলে আরো দারুণ কিছু বই উপহার দিয়ে যেতে পারতেন।
স্ট্যানলি ওয়েইনবাম কে সাইন্স ফিকশনের পায়োনিয়ারদের একজন কেন ধরা হয় সেটা বুঝতে হলে বইটা অবশ্যই পড়তে হবে। দু:খজনক ব্যাপার হলো লেখক মাত্র ৩২ বছর বয়সে মারা গিয়েছেন, আর কিছুদিন বেচে থাকলে আরো দারুণ কিছু বই উপহার দিয়ে যেতে পারতেন।
Fun travelogue of strange creatures on Mars that are genuinely alien.
Re-read in May 2013.6 stars!A masterpiece!
Språket er presist og lett å følge, men er snarere mer generelt og pregløst enn å ha noen egen "personlighet"; det er slik jeg kan tenke meg språket er i de fleste andre science fiction-historier.Etter hvert som fortellingen går sin gang og ting begynner å floke seg, kan man fort se hvor det hele bærer hen, og avslutningen er altfor lettvint.Jeg vet ikke om jeg vil lese oppfølgeren, spesielt ettersom serien sannsynligvis skulle avsluttes med en tredje novelle som aldri ble skrevet, da forfatteren døde i ung alder.
Yazar bu öyküleri yazdıktan 1 yıl sonra ölmüş ve maalesef başka bir kitabı da yok.
Mesela yarattığı dünya dışı yaratıkları çok zekice tasarlamış ve ayrıntılı özellikler vermiş.
Bir diğer hikayede VR gözlüğün benzerini tasarlamış ve mükemmel bir fantastik-bilimkurgu hikayesi çıkarmış ortaya.
Uyumun Doruğu hikayesi, süper insan/mutant fikrini öne sürmüş ve yine üst düzey.
Son iki hikaye yine birbiriyle bağlantılı ve Profesör Van Manderpootz ile bahtsız Dixon Well'in öykülerini anlatıyor.
İki öyküden Eğer Dünyaları mükemmel bir hikaye.
Öyküleri, yaratıkları hep filmlere ve romanlara ilham olmuş.
Öykülere PuanlarımMars destanı - 9.5Hayaller vadisi - 9.5Uyumun doruğu - 10Pygmalion - 10Üşütük Ay - 8.5Eğer Dünyaları - 10İdeal - 8
“A Martian Odyssey” (1934) – Stanley G.
But it's an alien creature using the prey's mental images to create an illusion and hypnotise to lure the hapless victims.
Similar alien technique (not as malevolent) as in Ray Bradbury's “September 2005: The Martian” (1949), and Stanisław Lem's “Solaris” (1961).The intelligent 'Tweel' was able to communicate to Jarvis: “The pyramid-monster – the dream-beast!
What about that?” (p119)A Martian Odyssey is a science fiction short story by Stanley G.
Weinbaum originally published in the July 1934 issue of Wonder Stories.- - -
Weinbaum has some of the occasional creakiness to be expected of Golden Age science fiction--conventions of the era, really, rather than actual true authorial failures--but for its period of the mid-1930s this book of five stories does indeed show a great deal of innovative imagination, and of course quite decent storytelling as well.The title story, the 1934 "A Martian Odyssey," is one of those original "classics" about which the SF reader always hears, such as, say, John W.
Weinbaum, von denen die erste die bekanntere ist, weil sie auch in die "Science Fiction Hall of Fame" Sammlung aufgenommen wurde - als älteste Geschichte in dieser berühmten Sammlung.Beide Geschichten lassen sich noch gut lesen: Weinbaum gelingt es sehr gut, fremdartige Lebewesen, Städte und Landschaften zu schildern.
Gestört hat mich die Art, wie er die Geschichte aufbaut: die Rückkehrer erzählen jeweils von ihrer Expedition, womit schon einmal klar ist, dass sie zurückkehren.Stanley G.
Weinbaum hat in seinem kurzen Leben bemerkenswerte Science Fiction geschrieben, leider wurde er nur 33 Jahre alt.
"A Martian Odyssey,"is a fine short story however, I would not recommend it as one's first attempt to immerse one's self in science fiction.
It does have a nicely developed world and the story being told from the perspective of the narrator telling a story to his crew mates makes it unique in the sea of Alien attacks and strange encounters that floods the Science Fiction Genre.
It is a simple story and can be read in about an hour of one is a quick reader.
I would recommend this story to more serious fans of science fiction as it is written by one of the great classic science fiction authors.
A precursor to The Martian? There is something about Mars, it seems, that lends itself to humorous, self-deprecating observations. Weinbaum offers a tale that brings to the fore every hypocrisy and prejudice of the invader and then sets them on their head... Well nearly. Somehow, the humour is in the way assumptions of superiority, improbability and impossibility are expressed by Jarvis and his fellow crew mates. Given the level of obvious disdain and condescension, the biggest threat seems to be each other.
It's always refreshing to read (in my case, listen to) science fiction from the olden days (in this case short story 80+ years old).The descriptions are great, the narrative easy to follow although really thin.The stars of the story are probably the non-human (illogical for us) creatures.Overall, a solid 2.75/5 (but if you get this as an audio book the rating bumps up to a 3.25/5).
Lo escuché en formato audiolibro en Verne y Wells ciencia ficción. Escrito en 1934, es un interesante relato en el que se cuenta el intento de comunicarse con una inteligencia extraterrestre. También me gustaron las diferentes formas de vida marcianas como el constructor de pirámides basado en silicio.
I really did not enjoy the way the story unfolded. It was like a detailed verbal report that was especially comical knowing what we now know about Mars.Update:Maybe I just don't enjoy Science Fiction from the 1930s. This is my first of two and both were told as someone telling a story about something that happened to them. Why? I'd much rather be IN the story instead of a retelling of it. It's all in past tense. Reminds me of a story told around a campfire.
