https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77628.Too_Many_Women
An internal report sent to the C.E.O. of the engineering firm Naylor-Kerr suggests that the hit-and-run death of one of their employees may have been a murder instead. Archie goes undercover as an independent consultant to the "stock" department...which employs 500 lovely and charming women. Is this really a case of murder? If so, can Archie and Wolfe root out the culprit? And there is one perhaps more important question: surrounded by "too many women," will Archie keep his mind on his work?One of the better Nero Wolfe mysteries.
A case of fatal hit-and-run with a victim being an employee of an engineering supply company seems to satisfy everybody including the police of being really a random hit-and-run.
Nero Wolfe takes the case to get to the bottom of this, but because he practically never leaves his home Archie Goodwin is hired as a replacement for the late guy to get the inside scoop of the company going-ons.
A lot of reviewers did not like this book much because Nero Wolfe plays a very small part in the book while Archie Goodwin takes more prominent role in the investigation.
For I've never read a Nero Wolfe mystery that I didn't at least like.
There's just something enjoyable and wonderful about the detective team of Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
While Wolfe is present in the novel, to a certain degree, it is Archie who is doing most of the work.
Was it the best, best, best Wolfe mystery ever?
For those looking for great banter between Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin, well, this one isn't as good as some of the other novels I've read.
3.5*It was a lot of fun listening to Archie's encounters with the many young women in engineering firm Naylor-Kerr. While I certainly was not able to figure out the culprit before Wolfe, I thought that this one didn't show off Wolfe's personality as well as some of the other books in the series. Michael Pritchard does a decent narration and his voice for Nero Wolfe is particularly good.
In this novel, Rex Stout breaks precedence and has Archie carry most of the plot and story line.
You really don't hear a lot from Nero except when Archie checks in.Also, I don't know what Rex Stout was thinking in this book...he has women throwing themselves at Archie in the most ridiculous ways (ex.
they won't answer Archie's questions unless he throws his arms around them and kisses them first- these are women he barely knows) I mean...come on....So Archie will humor them and hug and kiss them so he can get his questions answered.I would say this is the worst novel out of all the Nero Wolfe novels
I love reading about Archie and Nero and Fritz. This time Archie attempts to go undercover yet doesn't quite do it
Whether it be the petty bickering between the two stars, the patter between Archie and the women, or Archie having to put up with one individual's health food nuttiness; the interplay between various characters is definitely more than enough to draw the reader in.I can't help but note, each time I read this, how much books like this disprove many of the assumptions we have about this time period--particularly those propogated by groups wanting to imagine the mid-20th century as some sort of moral oasisI could reproduce pages and pages of Archie's descriptions of the staff of Kerr-Naylor to give Stout a chance to strut his stuff, but will leave them to their proper context, just listing two here for a sample: ...as far as space went, it was a room about the size of the Yankee Stadium, with hundreds of desks and girls at them.
Too Many Women, a Nero Wolfe novel by Rex Stout, was published in 1947; when I started the project of reading the entire series, I was unable to find it.
Initially Archie is to be a personnel officer looking into employee matters, but that cover is soon set aside and he is able to do the real work for which he has been hired, determining the truth or falsity of the supervisor's assertion.
Of course this being a Nero Wolfe book, soon there is another death, this time definitely murder, and Archie and Nero finally have something to go on....
This, while rather slow-paced since the action doesn't really pick up till halfway through the novel when Archie and Wolfe stop working against each other, is an example of the kind of time-travel which can be achieved reading books written/set in the past.
Not an enjoyable read.
Yet another excellent Nero Wolfe book by Rex Stout ("Too Many Women," the 12th in the series, first published in 1947).
The one thing that bothers me a bit is Stout's continuing caricaturization of Inspector Cramer.
In the earlier works, Cramer was very competent and occasionally got a bit miffed with Wolfe.
In this one, Cramer's still competent, but he's in permanent volcano mode every time he meets our protagonists.
That's particularly irritating since Wolfe saved his bacon in the previous book.
Still, it's a minor thing and I'm keeping my rating of an Excellent 5 stars out of 5.
I was struggling to find what I wanted, so I decided to stick with a solid favorite, Nero Wolfe.Too Many Women did the trick!
Archie finds himself working in an office setting surrounded by beautiful women and conniving men.
What follows is humorous account of Archie’s attempt to survive in the office world, full of lies and manipulation.Of course I adore Archie and Wolfe, but I was even more pleased at how the women are presented.
And the banter between Inspector Cramer and Wolfe always makes me smile!Nero Wolfe always makes my day and Too Many Women didn’t disappoint.
Αν και σαν πλοκή δεν ήταν στην ουσία τίποτα το ιδιαίτερο, το Πάρα Πολλές Γυναίκες είναι σίγουρα από τα καλύτερα μυθιστορήματα (και όχι μόνο στην κατηγορία της αστυνομικής λογοτεχνίας) που είχα την τύχη να πιάσω στα χέρια μου.
Αν και ήμουν επιφυλακτική στην αρχή, μιας και ήμουν αβέβαιη ως προς την ανάγνωση μιας ιστορίας μυστηρίου γραμμένης σε άλλη εποχή, ο Ρεξ Στάουτ με εξέπληξε ευχάριστα και το κείμενό του με συνεπήρε και με ενθουσίασε.
Και είμαι σίγουρη πως την ίδια εντύπωση θα δημιουργήσει και σε όλους τους λάτρεις των καλών νουάρ.
Now, knowing that some of the descriptions of and attitudes towards women in the books leave something to be desired, I tried not to get my hopes up.
While it was nice to learn that Archie has 2 brothers and 2 sisters, and that his mother’s maiden name was Leslie, and that there were curtains around restaurant booths to be opened and closed for smooching in private, that didn’t make up for how uncharming Archie was in his interactions with women!
You can do better Archie!
Lily Rowan deserves a better version of you than the bourbon-drinking, cigarette-smoking, brawling version of Wolfe’s brilliant lieutenant.
Four months later rumors start spreading at his work place that he was murdered.
The corporation then hires Nero Wolf to look into, and Nero sends Archie to work undercover.
Posing, badly, as a new executive Archie is confronted by hundreds of young women typists as he tries to figure out what happened to the dead young executive.
This is a enjoyable chapter in the Nero and Archie saga, but its mostly about Archie and his adventures with the young women of the typing pool.
Highly recommended for fans of the wonderful Nero Wolf novels, and the golden age of detective fiction.
Archie really lives up to his reputation as a lady's man in this story.
It was very much Goodwin-heavy and Wolfe-light this time around, which is fine with me because I don't read these books for Nero Wolfe.
I read Rex Stout for the wit and humor in Archie's narrative, especially the way he takes a metaphor and keeps it going, weaving it through the text even when you expected him to have already dropped it.
This book is a great example of what I like most about Stout's writing.
This one would be way more fun without the domestic violence. Archie IS weird about women, but this is one of the few points where it hits a "ffs, dude, really, that's not okay" button for me.Which is a real shame, as otherwise Archie being forced into an office full of women has every sign of being a classic! There's a potentially really fun story here, but even the usual excellent narration doesn't quite save that fly from the ointment, to me.
Too Many Chapters.This book is entertaining in the style of all Nero Wolfe books, but Nero Wolfe is under-utilized. The last 1/4 repetition was not needed. Unfortunately, the ending is in the last 1/4, but since I was ready for this book to be done, I was okay with that.This would have been better as a tight, brisk novella, not draw out with so much talking, talking, talking. Too many chapters.Weakest of all Nero Wolfe books.
Classic Archieit's not just the story of course, but how it's told. There are so many lines in here that I savored as I read , savored, sighed and wished that people spoke that way these days. Not that you really can in 140 characters. Good mystery, and the author can be forgiven a little for his apparent fascination with beautiful working women.
Love in the 1940s?This is just a wonderful, light read. Stout's command of the English language and it's literary devices such as irony and satire frequently had me laughing out loud at the irrepressible Archie Goodwin's outlook on life. Stout is a master of intricate plotting and, succinctly put, the book is just a joy to read. I strongly recommend this series!
I found an old paperback on my bookshelves so I must have read this once upon a time but I truly remembered nothing about it.This is strange Stout novel. Archie is a lot more hard-boiled and, frankly, misogynistic than he normally is. The writing is fairly sharp, though.
Archie is in fine form in this one!!
Archie goes undercover in a huge typing pool full of gorgeous young women--he is in heaven! A personal fave Nero Wolfe tale, it is so funny!
Archie steps out.
Love Archie GoodwinEnjoy Nero Wolfe books. Good reads, enough to make you think and sometimes surprised who did it. Scheming and manipulative woman she should be charged.
This is Archie Goodwin at his rascally best.
Like all Nero Wolfe mysteries, this was an enjoyable read. However, it was almost all Archie and had little of the banter between Archie and Wolfe, and almost no Cramer. So not one of my favorites.
A treat. A good mystery but light on clues. Some of the best dialogue in the series. Archie at his absolute best.
Not my favourite Nero Wolfe story - ok but not his best!
Not on my favorite list of Stout books. Both Wolfe and Archie are a bit off and I don't really like the plot.
True to Nero Wolfe mysteries. I always have to read straight through because I can’t put it down until it’s done.
