https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64316.The_White_Mountains
Protagonist Will, a thirteen-year-old boy living in the (fictional) English village of Wherton, is looking forward to the next "Capping Day", until a chance meeting with a mysterious fake-capped man named Ozymandias prompts him to discover a world beyond the Tripods' control.
The novel climaxes with Henry and Beanpole discovering that earlier, when Will had been captured by a Tripod, he had been unknowingly implanted with a tracking device.
مدتی بعد، یک فرد ناشناس به نام: «ازماندیاس»، «ویل» را از وجود یک پایگاه مبارزه با سه‌ پایه‌ ها، باخبر می‌کند، که در کوه‌های سفید قرار دارد.
The cornerstone celebration of the communities in the story is "Capping Day," so named because every child, upon reaching the age of 14, is taken by the Tripods and returned with a metal cap implanted on their skull.
I enjoyed the story, I liked the characters and I am curious to see where the next novels venture.
Regardless of the reason, I can only give this 3 stars, but I would still highly recommend it to my fellow readers, especially those that enjoy YA science fiction.
John Christopher’s influential and fun as a zombie-at-a-Mensa-party 1967 novel is a fantastic YA success.Telling the post-apocalyptic story of a 13 year old in a world where alien tripod monsters (reminiscent of HG Wells The War of the Worlds creatures) control every aspect of human culture and keep us subjugated by means of a “capping” brain implant at the age of 14, Christopher spins an imaginative and timeless tale of adventure and perseverance.Our protagonist Will notices he’s a little different than everyone else and this is further confirmed when a wandering “vagrant” (one whose capping was unsuccessful) singles him out for the revelation that there are many others like them who will not go gently into the tripods good night.
There are, however, a few bright points in their miserable existences, and one of these is the annual games, where young athletes compete in a kind of Olympics to pick out the fastest and strongest.The hero and his best friend are competing.
They're pretty much certain that they'll win and be granted the mystical journey to the aliens's city that is the victors' privilege.
But his friend, who's a long jumper, screws up: he puts a foot wrong during his run-up and is disqualified.
His friend has been granted a miraculous reprieve.I was quite good at taking exams, but it occurred to me to wonder if they were as important as people made out.
تاب اول از سه گانه سه پایه ها :1. کوهای سفید2. شهر طلا وسرب3. برکه آتش4. وقتی سه پایه به زمین آمدندکوههای سفید اولین کتاب از سه گانه ی مشهور جان کریستوفر نویسنده علمی تخیلی نویس است.شهر طلا و سرب و برکه آتش دو جلد دیگر این مجموعه اند.بعدها جان کریستوفر کتابی با عنوان وقتی سه پایه ها به زمین آمدند را به عنوان مقدمه این کتابهای نوشت.
This is not an origin story so we don’t know what happened when the aliens showed up and how they subjugated the human race.
The year when the story takes place is not mentioned, there is even a possibility that the tripods may be man-made rather than aliens.
I certainly prefer it to  The Hunger Games, kids being chased by giant tripods is much more exciting than kids being chased by other kids.The book is very fast paced with something happening on every page, and there is not much in the way of dialogue.
So I pulled this novel out of the vaults--my fifth grade English teacher assigned it as part of an inspired introduction to genre fiction unit.
This was our introduction to science fiction.
Anyway, this book is better and more exciting than I remembered.
There is a small band of rebels in the mountains who have managed to escape capping and the novel follows three boys who are running away to find these rebels in the mountains.
Very exciting stuff.
And there's a really wonderful and real pettiness and sense of competition among the three boys that sets this novel apart from others like it.
One of the best Young Adult authors ever, John Christopher, kicks of his masterwork trilogy with this book about a retro-future in which the world has been colonized by Tripods.
I praised Neil Gaiman's GRAVEYARD BOOK for helping undercut those notions, which led to talk of other best young adult books.
I've read this book a half-dozen times but after finding it (in the 1970's paperback edition) in Half-Price books last week I could not help but tear through it again.
This young adult dystopian science fiction novel (the first of a trilogy, followed by a prequel) is considered to be a classic, and it's easy to see why.
Young Will, the protagonist, flees his capping, and thus his coming-of-age adventure begins.This is a "big idea" novel, and the characters are developed just enough to serve the plot and no more.
That said, the big idea is a key one, namely the question of whether it's better to choose the security, safety, and contentment of being a servant, or to choose to be one's own master, even if that means living a life of danger and hardship and want.
After being immensely impressed by The Death of Grass by John Christopher, I decided to start his "Tripods" series right away.
Although the primary target for this series are the readers in the young-adult category, it is so unlike today's young-adult books where the post-apocalyptic/dystopian scenario just serves as an inconsequential and poorly developed background for a cheesy romance between hormonally charged teens.The White Mountains introduces us to the thirteen year old teen protagonist, Will, and we follow him on his journey towards the White Mountains which is considered the only safe haven as well as the only resistance against the Tripods.
I was in 6th grade, had just moved to the Seattle area, and was as unhappy as an uprooted, adolescent girl living under perpetually gray skies can be - but this book, read to my class by the teacher, showed me that, hey, it could be worse! I could be on the run, hunted by aliens in giant tripods who wanted to control my brain with a metal cap device on my head. It gave me perspective, you know? A great introduction to real SF for kids.
Given the time this book was written and target audience it could be a 4 star.The idea certanly gets 5 though.
شاید دلیل اینکه نمیتونم برای این کتاب یه ریویوی درخور بنویسم این بود که داشتم این کتاب رو برای دومین بار میخوندم( شاید هم واسه این بود که چند روز پیش تموم شده بود و یادم رفته بود که بیام همون موقع ریویو بنویسم) ولی تمام چیزی که باید راحع به این کتاب بدونید این بود که باید در اولین فرصت( همین الآن مثلا) آب دستتونه بزارید زمین و این کتاب رو بخونید! همینقدر صریح… همینقدر واضح!
شاید دلیل اینکه نمی‌تونم برای این کتاب یه ری‌ویوی درخور بنویسم این بود که داشتم این کتاب رو برای دومین بار می‌خوندم( شاید هم واسه این بود که چند روز پیش تموم شده بود و یادم رفته بود که بیام همون موقع ری‌ویو بنویسم) ولی تمام چیزی که باید راحع به این کتاب بدونید این بود که باید در اولین فرصت( همین الآن مثلا) آب دستتونه بزارید زمین و این کتاب رو بخونید! همین‌قدر صریح… همین‌قدر واضح!
These are 40+ year old memories after all, deeply buried!
A few things I understand now as an adult that I didn't get then: the boys traipse through a destroyed Paris (I knew it was a city, but didn't know it was Paris), and I didn't realize the mountains were in Europe.Anyway, if you like dystopic middle grade stories and you haven't read this one, I'd HIGHLY recommend it.
If you like the genre give it a read, you won't be disappointed.Riddley Walker
There seems to be some complexity to the Tripod novels and stories written by Christopher (actual name, Samuel Youd).
Whatever their order, this book stands by itself as one a reader can begin with, without worrying about what may have been set or composed earlier.
It does not, however, tell a full story.
The City of Gold and Lead (1967) and The Pool of Fire (1968) complete this particular tale.
While ordinarily regarded as a young adult novel, I did not feel patronized.
Indeed, one of the reasons I liked the novel was because of its evocation of youth and of the transition into adulthood.
No these are precious for childhood reasons.I first discovered the pleasure of reading through the power of the Chronicles of Narnia.
It was also most certainly a novel aimed at the younger generation but also readable for the older generation.The White Mountains follows the adventures of a boy (I forget his name in all honesty) in a society dominated by the godlike tripods.
Until he discovers one man who is free and who tells him a tale of the White Mountains and of the tripods who dominate mankind.
The narrator is young Will Parker, still a child, not yet initiated into adulthood via the mysterious "capping" ceremony, where the child is taken briefly away by towering metal creatures called Tripods and fitted with a metal disc in the skull.
Disturbed by the change he sees in his closest friend, who has just been Capped, Will takes a chance offered to him by a stranger to escape and make his way from Britain to the continent and into the Alps -- which, a century in the future when this story is set, are now called just the White Mountains.
Somehow missed this series when I was a kid; really enjoyed this author's The Death of Grass and thought the prequel novel was pretty good too.Teen Will lives in a world that has regressed considerably due to the foreign influence of the Tripods.
Their adventures are well described and episodic, culminating in a run to the south and a battle with one of the Tripods.The first of a series, this book comes to a rather abrupt end, with a two page summary of "what happened next".
I would recommend it to young adults, and would caution older readers to read the whole series or perhaps see The Death of Grass instead.
An intriguing beginning, a boring adventure, a rushed, disempowering ending (in particular, I have in mind this sentence in the last paragraph: (view spoiler)["Our leaders keep their counsel, and we are only newcomers and boys--we could not expect to know what the projects are, or what our part in them may be." How convenient!
And not that different from being under the control of the Tripods...
(hide spoiler)]).Also, I didn’t really care for any of the characters and kinda disliked the world-building, especially the confusing descriptions of the artifacts from our world through the eyes of the protagonists unfamiliar with them.
مردم این را هم مثل خیلی چیزهای دیگر، به عنوان حقیقت زندگی پذیرفته بودند. ولی ما دیگر اینطور فکر نمیکردیم. ما داشتیم کم کم به پرسش عادت میکردیم و هر شک و تردیدی که در ذهنمان شکل میگرفت، یک امتیاز مثبت به نفع ما، در برابر دیگران بود.متوجه شدم که چگونه هر چیز خوبی میتواند با اجبار، مفهوم خودش را از دست بدهد. آخر، بدون ذهنی آزاد که در اختیار صاحبش باشد، دیگر شجاعت چه ارزشی داشت؟
کتاب کوه های سفید یک کتاب تخیلی قوی بود.جنگیدن با سه پایه ها و ربطش با زندگی ما خیلی جذاب بود و همین جنگیدن به سادگی نبود،کلی اتفاق می افتاد اما بچه ها نا امید نمی شدند و یک لحظه هم به نرسیدن هدفشان فکر نمی کردند،همان طور که گفتم توی کتاب پر از اتفاق بود که دنبال کردن اتفاقات به آدم اجازه ی کنار گذاشتن کتاب را نمی داد و موضوع دیگر:بعضی کتاب ها هستند که محتوای جذابی دارند اما به علت ترجمه بد،کتاب سوخت می شود اما این کتاب ترجمه ی خوبی داشت
I think that dystopian authors, even if they haven’t read this, owes a lot to this series.Tripods follows the popular theory that our future will just be a repeat of our past.
With the guidance of that Ozymandias, Will sets out on a perilous journey to the last place that is not ruled by Tripods, The White Mountains.This is a classic book that will not make young readers groan in pain when someone asks them to read it.
But I guess the real strength of this series is how John Christopher brilliantly mends together the past and the future.
The books and the TV serials are wonderful memories for me that I like to relive from time to time.The reason for the current re-read was that they were discussed on Twitter.
Myself and Kiraniumbra convinced Jacob and Karode to read the books and watch the tv series.
With strict advice to read the books first.
Which is always going to be a turn off for a young reader anyway.The book is told from the point of view of Will.
When Will's cousin is capped he becomes much more distant from Will.
The book follows the journey of a group of boys as they leave their small town and head to the eponymous White Mountains.
Their journey is inspired by the upcoming capping day in which they would have small caps put on the backs of their head making them obedient and complacent to the mysterious Tripod overlords.
Unfortunately most of the novel is about the protagonists running, hiding, and escaping from Tripods.
My largest problem though was with the ending in which we do not see the protagonists reach the mountains but are rather told that they did reach them.
این کتاب رو وقتی راهنمایی بودم از کتابخونه مدرسه گرفتم و خوندم. خیلی دوسش داشتم ولی اسمش یادم رفته بود. چندین بار با اسم های مختلف سرچ کردم ولی نتیجه نگرفتم تا اینکه اتفاقی یاد کلمه کلاهک افتادم و با سرچ کرنش اسم کتاب رو پیدا کردم. من فقط همین کتاب رو خونده بودم ولی گویا سه گانه است و جان کریستوفر بعدها یک کتاب دیگه هم به عنوان مقدمه برای این سه گانه اش نوشته. خلاصه که خیلی کیف کردم از خوندن دوباره ش
I read this in 4th grade and absolutely loved it
یاد روزهای نوجوانی کردم و دوباره خوندمش. اون زمان حتما بهش پنج میدادم ولی خب الان فرق میکنه :)
The White Mountains by John ChristopherWhen this book was suggested to me by the school librarian, I wasn’t exactly thrilled about doing it as a novel study for my sixth grade students and the beginning impressed me even less.
The metal cap controls a person’s thoughts and therefore makes him or her docile, so they won’t question the rule of the Tripods.
Along the way they meet a very clever young man who loves science and who, like Will and Henry, has questioned the Tripods’ domination.
But Jack, after his Capping Day, completely changes tune, expressing positive thoughts towards the Tripods and how they saved all of humanity.
What you imagine in your head is always scarier than what is written, or seen.After a months long journey full of starvation, alien battles, and chases, the message at the end of the book (with Will describing plans to fight for humanity's future against the Tripods) felt excitedly epic.A brilliant start to the series.
Title: The White MountainsAuthor: John Christopher Setting: Futuristic Europe Story Summary: Sometime in the near future the world is ruled by Tripods. All children are “capped” at the age of 14 when they have a metal cap grafted to their heads and they come under control of the tripods. Will and his Cousin Henry don’t want to be capped so they travel across Europe to go to a new land where there are supposedly no tripods. When they cross the ocean they meet a boy named Jean-Paul who loves to in
Beanpole agrees to travel with them because he doesn’t want to be capped either and they head south for the White Mountains.
Will falls in love with her and wants to stay behind when his friends leave but when he finds out that Eloise intends to be capped he changes his mind.
They hide in a crevice of a rock that was big enough for them to fit in for over two days before they leave and continue on to the White Mountains where they resolve to destroy the tripods.I found the book very interesting and easy to read.
