https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11447921-beautiful-ruins
I could not wait to finish this book and escape from these people who make life so damned complicated for themselves and others.
I did not see anything beautiful, only the ruins of a hyperactive plot.Yet there were a few lines that had meaning to me: "Pasqo, the smaller the space between your desire and what is right, the happier you will be."  "All we have is the story we tell." "No one gets to tell you what your life means!" "And even if they don't find what they're looking for, isn't it enough to be out walking together in the sunlight?"
Preconcetti sventato ancora una volta!Whoever designed the cover of this novel and came up with its title (because I refuse to believe either of these disasters were Jess Walter’s doing) must have had one thing in mind: make this book appear to be as much of a chick-lit beach read as possible.
And yes, while there are certainly elements of the chick-lit beach read here—some tender relationships, a sprinkle of sentimentality, a romance or twelve—it would be highly unfair to categorize it as so, because this book smashes that label to pieces and even transcends whichever other label one might try to apply to it.

Jess Walter’s Beautiful Ruins is the marriage of gentle social satire with old-fashioned story-telling; a marriage that gives life to a delightfully original and brave novel.
There are so many beautiful ruins in this story, which takes place in 1962 Italy and present-day Hollywood, with a bit of contemporary Spokane and Edinburgh and 1970’s Seattle tossed in, not to forget a slight detour to the Sierra Nevada mountains in the 1850’s.
If you don’t care for Hollywood endings, you might feel cheated by Walter’s wrap-up of his intertwined story lines.
A parochial innkeeper, Pasquali Tursi, lives in a rocky coastline village called Porto Vergogna (Port of Shame), a place the size of a thumb between two mountains, and referred to as "the whore's crack."One day, Pasquali is stunned by the vision of a young, striking, blonde American actress, Dee Moray, from the movie set, and baffled why she is staying at his inn.
These frescoes become the most poignant visual metaphor of the book.Alvis Bender, an American writer with writer's block, traumatized from his experience in the war, stays at the inn annually, and has left his one devastating chapter in the drawer in Dee's room.
Heart-Stabbing Elaboration of Beauty  I kept this book on my shelf untouched for nearly 4 years after I couldn't make it past page 20. In April, with the spring weather, I decided to dust off its pretty jacket and read it. So many have reviewed this novel in the time since I bought this that I doubt many will even read this review. But ... I just feel compelled to add...I was wowed, nearly speechless by the adductively alluring setting, ruins welling within me even now, months after my farewell
I realize the book's faults, but they didn't take away from its gorgeous cinematic qualities.In one novel, the author contrasts: A brilliant, breathtaking, blazing, Botticellian beauty of love and nature and flesh along the chromatic Italian Ligurian Sea coastline and on the movie set of Cleopatra in Rome, together with an appreciation for just being alive, under nights of sparkling stars,WithA sadness submerging the spiritual hole left by the reminder that in life we must choose paths (this or that, not this and that), yet we have but one life to live but so much love from which to give.
In 2006, Janet Maslin of the NY Times said, “Jess Walter is a ridiculously talented writer.” That’s been a blurb on every book he’s written since.
One of the characters is an American writer (a car salesman, really) who visits Pasquale’s hotel annually with the intention of writing a book, but in practice to drink wine.
Richard Russo identified this talent early in Walter’s career, which is meaningful since Russo is another writer I’d put in that category.
This is a very readable book — by a ridiculously talented writer.
Some authors can juggle intertwined characters and a disjointed assembly of characters in a way that starts making sense, allowing them to pull all the characters and plot together effortlessly at the end (Kate Atkinson, among others). I did not feel that Jess Walter had that skill; the characters did not appeal to me; and if I hadn't been reading for my book group, I probably would not have bothered to finish.
His assistant, Claire, spends her days listening to pitches for films that will never be made, and sifting shit for the corn.Going back to the sixties, we'll also be spending time with an author who's spent years perfecting just the first chapter of his book, and with Richard Burton himself, a heavy-drinking, hard-living, actress-dipper, who burns to tell the real, inside story of Burton/Taylor and their giant turd of a movie.
A favorable review today in The New York Times said Jess Walter’s new book is like a film script, but to my way of thinking it is more like Walter as a one-man performance artist, who suddenly pulls all kinds of horns, drums, bells and other props out of his bottomless pockets to illustrate a point, to make us laugh, to break into our attention and to declare: “are we entirely mad?” His work is brilliantly interpreted and performed by Edoardo Ballerini on audio, and to hear the thick and heavy tones of Richard Burton declaiming in a small outboard floating off the coast of Italy is to feel a stab of remembered joy.
Jess Walter and I have not seen eye to eye on another of his novels but after reading Beautiful Ruins, we have definitely kissed and made up.
Also in this time frame is Michael Deane, a movie producer, the actor Richard Burton and a WW11 soldier Alvis Bender who is writing his first novel.
There is also Pat, a wise-cracking American comedic musician, in London after an attempted intervention by his family, struggling to have one last crack at fame during a fringe festival.The story contains three additional vehicles of prose; the first chapter of Bender's novel, Shane's movie pitch which is quite a haunting story, and the first rejected chapter of Michael Deane's memoir.
At the start, the action alternates between a group of disappointed characters in a backwater Italian seacoast town in 1962 and a set of people in contemporary Hollywood dreaming of pulling off the next big successful movie.
Surprisingly, when called to the scene, Deane is interested both in producing the movie and wants to drop everything to help the Italian find the missing actress.The rest of the book works to bring the two sets of characters together to make a single story.
Sometimes its not the plot that makes a book memorable but beautiful descriptions of a place and it's inhabitants that can charm and dazzle the reader.
But I did love the writing and the amazing sense of time and place.
A lovely story with vivid characters and beautiful images of romantic Italian Coastlines that made this book come alive.I loved the character of Pasquale and the chapters set in Italy were the hightlight of Beautiful Ruins for me.While I always perfer to read a book the narration by Edoardo Ballerini was excellent and I really enjoyed swithing back and forth between my hardcopy and audible.
The idea of Italy mixed with that beautiful cover made it a pretty easy sell for me.Of course, when I finished the book and sat down to write this review, I was stuck.
There was also a really wonderful blend of romance and whimsy, hilarity and sadness — all of which fit together so perfectly and which really made me want to turn the pages faster.Jess Walter is a pretty amazing writer.
I loved how he constantly kept me on my toes as he flipped from Italy in 1962, to Hollywood in the present day, to a book chapter, to a play, to … so many other things!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Beautiful Ruins was the third book in my library Winter Reading Challenge. I don't know wtf is going on, but I'm having a hell of a time finding a winner. Curse you, library!!!! Nah, not really. In all seriousness, if I weren't such a voracious reader I would have been able to find plenty of good books on the recommendation list . . . but since I've already read Eleanor & Park and The Lover's Dictionary and High Fidelity, etc., etc
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Beautiful Ruins was the third book in my library Winter Reading Challenge.
This is one of those books that I'm glad I'm reviewing, because in six months (or maybe even three since I'm an idiot) my memory will fail me and I'll see that beautiful cover and blurb and think "Oh, I should read that." It's that forgettable.However, my problem with Beautiful Ruins may indeed be just that.
I am not going to recommend you read this because you will judge me for it long before you tire of the written tics, redundancy, and the repeated use of characters' full names.If you were to read this, explicitly violating my not-recommendation and expunging my role in the whole thing, the last quarter of the book might be the best, save for the last chapter which is one of those annoying scrolling summaries at the end of a film of all of the characters' happy endings.
The author should have taken a lesson from his own Lydia.I don't know if "it was okay" (2 stars) or if I actually "liked it" (3 stars).
Beautiful Ruins is a revelation. It contains shimmering prose and a life-affirming message. Spanning 50 years and two continents, it asks some tough questions about how to define success and happiness in our media-driven, celebrity-obsessed culture. It artfully encompasses such disparate events as the filming of  Cleopatra in the 1960's and the tragedy of the Donner Party  over 100 years earlier. It skewers the modern entertainment industry for its preoccupation with ratings and admonishes us t
Beautiful Ruins is a revelation.
It contains shimmering prose and a life-affirming message.
Spanning 50 years and two continents, it asks some tough questions about how to define success and happiness in our media-driven, celebrity-obsessed culture.
It artfully encompasses such disparate events as the filming of  Cleopatra in the 1960's and the tragedy of the Donner Party  over 100 years earlier.
It skewers the modern entertainment industry for its preoccupation with ratings and admonishes us to ignore this chatter when we chart our own lives.
Reading it is like eating an artichoke.
(view spoiler)[
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
A couple weeks ago a friend told me that Jess Walter's "Beautiful Ruins" was the book of the summer.
It deals with love, disappointed expectations, responsibilities, movie magic, tragedy - the whole gamut of human drama.
I don't want to feel like these disappointments could have really happened.All that said, I think I would still recommend it if you are an avid reader or you love the movies.
And the way that this book comes together at the end is surprisingly fulfilling after what was at times a very frustrating read.
I thought this would be a fun and fast read, but there were surprising depths to this book that is part historical fiction, part insider-Hollywood, part redemption and part love story.
He will slowly learn her secrets and why she was sent to his village.The flashback portions alternate with chapters set in present-day Hollywood, involving a movie producer, his assistant and a writer.
Pasquale, who is now an old man, visits the producer and wants to know what happened to the actress.
Will the producer finally make amends for his earlier misdeeds?The final chapters of the book neatly tie all of the story lines together.
I would never have suspected that a novel about a small town actress, a decrepit Italian hotel, an ambitious writer, a crass Hollywood producer and Richard Burton would have me turning to grab this book at every spare opportunity, and allow me to stretch my lunch hour without guilt to finish the book.In the early 60s, Pasquale has taken over his family's completely out of date hotel in a village so small that tourist boats never come there -- except one day, when one does, and deposits a beautiful American actress, Dee Moray, on the pier.
Beautiful Ruins I bought this book because I heard the author on NPR and he was this super nerdy guy who talked like an economist and who said things like, “When you compare the decline of cultures, for example the decline of Rome or Imperial Britain, one can make a few general conclusion, such as, wealth shifts to the top and the masses are consciously placated...” etc etc.
The book is its strongest at capturing failure twenty/thirty years down the road, when the person who failed has moved on, lived a life, looks back, and judges their choices.
"Isn't it enough to be out walking together in the sunlight?"Yes. Yes indeed.This isn't quite five-star material, but it was so touching and original and unexpectedly funny that I won't quibble over imperfections.
I know I'm in the minority here and late for the party but I didn't like Beautiful Ruins. I actually couldn't finish it. I found it boring and I didn't like any of the characters.
Prachtig geschreven roman... aanrader!!
"And even if they don't find what they're looking for, isn't it enough to be out walking together in the sunlight?" These past few weeks I have been sorting through my Goodreads shelves, writing up old reviews and having many arguments with myself over what makes a book five stars and which books should sit on my  'The Chosen Ones'  shelf.1. Should I only rate a book five stars if I've read it more than once and been besotted with it on each occasion?2. Should I wait at least half of a year to
Should I only rate a book five stars if I've read it more than once and been besotted with it on each occasion?2.
I frequently find myself leafing through its pages and rereading passages.I initially bought the book purely because I fell in love with the cover (not the one that looks like a chick lit but the 60s inspired one).
I can't put my finger on that moment when my heart fell in love with this story.
I loved the language so much but I was reading in the same way that I drink a mug of hot chocolate.
3.5 I had picked this up and started reading this twice before and just wasn't in the mood for it.
After several wonderful reviews from my trusty goodread friends I picked it up again and this time I found it enjoyable.
He is one of those witty characters, with flaws, and oh so human that I love to read about.
I did like the first part much more than the middle.
In the beginning everything was being set up and each of the characters were waiting for something to happen.
All in all I liked this and am glad that I picked it up again.
Wonderful, book that keeps one totally engaged from the beginning to the turning of the last page.
The characters were wonderful, so human, so needy, and so wanting, yet so very glorious in their realization that life can be and often is unrelenting in its ability to give one joy and happiness at a moment's notice.I recommend this book to anyone who wants to find a few hours of realization that life weaves at times a convoluted picture and it is how we work out the strands of that picture that makes one's life so totally bearable and ultimately often times wonderful.
A fast fun read that dabbles, mostly successfully, in a multitude of voices, genres and times.
I found it consistently fun, if never more deeply meaningful.
The book seemed to want to say something profound about love, hope, doing the right thing, and (centrally) I think, about knowing our place in life - not wanting what is more, in love or career, than we are "meant to have".
(Perhaps the most profoundly Italian thing about the work).
An Italian reader might have questioned too why a 'wharf boy' in the 50s would have gone to "liceo"' and other oddities, but again overall, well crafted, fast paced and enjoyable.
However, the beautiful Italian coastline, romantic movie stars and unique characters couldn't hold my attention for long.
I felt the main crux of the story dragged me through some pitiful relationships and characters making poor life choices over and over again.
I was frustrated with them, annoyed by their self pity and self destruction.
But in the end, the book turned back to its beginning glory.
Although the middle dragged, the book redeemed itself in the ending, with the realization that all is love - all that motivates, encourages and keeps us going, in the end is love.
And the story begins again today, half a world away, when an elderly Italian man shows up on a movie studio’s back lot searching for the mysterious woman he last saw at his hotel decades earlier.
Gloriously inventive, constantly surprising, Beautiful Ruins is a story of flawed yet fascinating people, navigating the rocky shores of their lives while clinging to their improbable dreams.
I’ve read many glowing reviews so I know a lot of people did enjoy it thoroughly and I sincerely hope that you will too.
