https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216384.Dr_Futurity
"There was simply no complete theory about time, he realized.
Dick, Dr. Futurity.One of the most "traditionally" SF novels PKD has written.
Dr. Futurity was published in 1960 and was his 7th published novel (after Time Out of Joint and before Vulcan's Hammer).
In this novel Dick explore basic ideas of time travel, complete with "arrows".
Think of the Hippocratic Oath pushed backwards and forwards in time.
Probably the most interesting piece of this novel is the future civilization that keeps a static level of human beings, only allowing a new baby to be born when someone dies.
PKD is quickly able to push this type of social evolution to its furthest realities or unrealities.
I feel like Dr. Futurity is inferior to those novels, but I want to appreciate it as much as possible despite its flaws.
Unfortunately, Dick doesn’t pursue this part of the story very far.
When Dr. Parsons is arrested for the crime of saving a woman’s life, he expresses moral outrage that this society euthanizes people who could be saved.
It seems likely that Dick opposed all these practices just as he opposed abortion.
This interpretation is supported by the changes made by the Wolf Tribe at the end of the story (161).
Dick’s Dr. Futurity in an Ace Double; flip the book over and upside down and John Brenner’s Slavers of Space was on the other side.Dr. Futurity is an honest to God time travel book by PKD, with all the necessary kooky eccentricities that Phil brings to any work.
In a setting and with themes reminiscent of Heinlein’s Farnham's Freehold and of Fritz Lieber’s The Big Time, Dick explores racism, colonialism and family with all of the paradoxes and time twists inherent in this SF vehicle.Not one of his great stories but it’s vintage PKD so a must read for fans and SF aficionados.
Yes, it's far from Dick at his best, and is a somewhat atypical outing for this most cultish of authors, but should still manage to please his many fans.In "Dr. Futurity," the reader encounters a 32-year-old doctor named Jim Parsons (hmm, why does that name seem so familiar?), who lives in Northern California with his wife Mary in the futuristic year of, um, 2012.
I love the way the book started and got really excited when Parsons was sentenced to be exiled to Mars, but, sadly, he never made it and the rest of the book turned into a big mess. I've never been a huge fan of time traveling stories in the first place and this one was no exception, no matter how much I connect with PKD's writing style. Oh well, I can't love all of his novels.
A time travel meditation, tinged with typical Dickian aesthetics. A doctor from 1998 (30 years in the author's future) travels forward to 2500 only to find a world where doctors are outlawed in favor of institutionalized euthanasia. Here, he becomes involved in a neo-Native-American plot to travel back to the 16th century to assassinate Sir Francis Drake when he docks near San Fransisco in 1597. Is it possible to change the past? Yes, but as we discover, only if you've already changed it...
This book inspired me to write a song. It goes a little like this: Salagadoola mechicka boola bibbidi-bobbidi-booPut 'em together and what have you gotA far more coherent statement than this bookSalagadoola mechicka boola bibbidi-bobbidi-booNot even magic can salvage this work
Like Vulcan's Hammer, this is a better-than-usual Philip K.
As is usual with Philip K.
Dick, the book is not really about its premise.
In this case, the premise IS interesting: a society of people who don't believe in doctors, so there's no recovery from significant physical traumas.
Dick's vision of what such a society would look like works for me, but when a doctor is plucked from another time and dropped into such a society, I'm not surprised his biggest question is "How did I get here?" rather than "What do I do here?"I wouldn't necessarily recommend this unless you're a fan of classic science fiction and / or Philip K.
Ήταν το πρώτο βιβλίο του Philip Dick που διάβασα και είχα ενθουσιαστεί. Αργότερα όμως όταν διάβασα το ηλεκτρικό πρόβατο και κατάλαβα τι παιχτουρα είναι ο P. D. Κατέβασα ένα αστεράκι την βαθμολογία. Το βιβλίο καταπιάνεται με το ταξίδι στον χρόνο ... νταααα... και με την γενοκτονία των ιθαγενών αμερικανών . Παρά τις φιλότιμες προσπάθειες , την καλή γραφή και τις φρέσκιες ιδέες , πάσχει από άσκοπα μπερδεμένη πλοκή όμως δεν καταστρέφει το βιβλίο . Όπως πάντα μας φέρνει κάτι νέο ... δεν λέμε ποτέ όχι σε ένα βιβλίο του Philip K Dick !
Only PKD can take the element of time travel to a level that is not cliche.
As with some of his other sci-fi books, you tend to forget you're reading science fiction and find yourself just reading brilliant fiction.Dr Jim Parsons is in a car accident and finds himself in a future society.
But is there truly a future, present, or past?
Or do we all just live in a space that time alters?The shupo's are like the young children of the Chinese cultural revolution.
I don't think that was an accident on PKD's part.
Read this book.
Check your date.
The confusion of humans and mechanical simulacra adumbrated might be considered one particular variant of the major theme which runs right through Dick's work: the juxtaposition of two "levels of reality" – one "objectively" determined, the other a world of appearances imposed upon characters by various means and processes.
In questo romanzo Dick si è anche lui cimentato con uno dei classici della fantascienza: il viaggio nel tempo ed i suoi paradossi.Sebbene ci siano cenni della solita genialità dell’autore, non è una delle sue opere più convincenti, con una trama che si avvolge su se stessa e alla fine diventa caotica e confusionaria.
A typical early Dick novel, "Dr. Futurity" immediately makes the reader uncomfortable by describing a future where death is the most important aspect of life, the government controls procreating and tribal factions fracture societies.This is almost two different short novels.
The first concerns the ethics of saving a life and whether (in this case) a doctor is in wrong for saving a life even is he doesn't know that's illegal.
Then the book takes a left turn down time-travel avenue and it goes completely off the grid.
It gets the extra star only because I don't have the heart to give a 1-star rating to a Dick novel. I still can't believe this was actually written by the author of Do Androids dream of electric sheep, The man in the high castle and so many other books I've loved. It was like reading a ten-year-old kid's effort in creative writing. I'll blame it partly on the translation and partly on the fact that it was one of his earlier novels.
Very tight short story of time loops and traveling. Has a nice dystopian concept, but none too fancy. Gas some plot twists, but becomes very much predictable.
I'm not a huge fan of time-travel as a topic, because I feel like it's impossible on a theoretical level, and most of the authors simply mess around with it too much.That said, I think PKD did an amazing job with this book, taking into account a great bundle of ethical and social questions that, in the 1950s were not as developed as we may say are now.So, it was a really good book.
I'm really sad I didn't quite enjoy the story just as much as the topic and the themes, so I didn't really enjoy the book as a whole.
One of the only two PKD books I've read that explains everything in detail and doesn't leave you floating along a disorienting miasma.This is a story of time travel reminiscent of a knotted bowl of spaghetti.
For the first half of the book, it seems like the story will focus on a future society's unnatural desire to shun medicine and intentionally die young, which is really ironic once you place a doctor there.
He intentionally placed a DOCTOR in the future, in a setting where his life-saving skills were utterly detested by the population.
That sounds like an AWESOME story, and it's even blatantly acknowledged by Dr. Parsons.
This was an early Philip K Dick novel written in 1959.
It was a bit more ordinary than most of his later novels.
It followed a man who was brought forward in time to a distopian future where death was highly prized and euthanasia was practised so that the average age was 15.
The book was kinda two parts, the messed up future society, and then working with the "rebels" who were trying to alter colonisation and change the future.
The man was very in love with his wife, but still accidentally started another family with a woman from the future.
This book takes you to very surprising places.
But then, as I stated earlier, Dick takes us to very unexpected places, involving 16th-century European explorers.
I wouldn't call this one of Dick's best novels--there are a few too many italicized statement in the "He suddenly realized...!!" style.
Plus, why is the main character so intent on getting back to his present time with his wife, when we know absolutely nothing about her character?
This is not a work where Dick's female characters are particularly scintillating, I'm afraid.
God knows how these scenarios came out of Dick's brain.

I hope Phil was able to pay some bills with whatever money he got from this. It is filled with the kind of prose that sounds like the author is thinking through what his character might do next, making notes rather than telling a story. This one if definitely for completists only.
Definitely a more formulaic book. Almost written seemingly in two parts. The opening a really interesting account of a doctor lost in the future where his skills are not so necessary. Then sort of a time traveling jaunt in the second part. Certainly easy to pick out as one of Dick’s older paperback originals. Not his best by any means, but enjoyable and a good read nonetheless.
Read this book for the The Dickheads podcast. I liked this much more than my co-hosts. You'll have to listen to the review.https://soundcloud.com/dickheadspodca...
Gli stravolgimenti riguardano il genere letterario, perché il viaggio nel tempo, sia nel futuro che nel passato, è un cliché, e Dick lo usa più e più volte fino a farne un guazzabuglio in cui non ci si raccapezza: i salti nel continuum spazio-temporale si susseguono con l' avanzare della storia e le conseguenze dell’uno ricadono nell’altro, come delle matrioske, lasciandoti spiazzato e incapace di prevedere, nonostante si viaggi con il protagonista, lo svolgersi degli eventi.
Populated by young, healthy, multiracial peoples whose society is split into totemic tribes, things start badly enough for him.
The population is precisely controlled, the gene pool is always improving.
Death holds no fear and the average life expectancy is fifteen.What use could a doctor be here?All the same, someone wanted him there, which is why they manipulated time to dredge him up from the past.
And why?Like all of Dick's early novels, Dr. Futurity seems a little slim and conventional by his later standards, but it really makes a good fist of those old time travel conundrums.
I do enjoy the way in which Dick tips the conventional ideas of a utopian future on their head - this isn't the most fantastic of his novels, and it definitely would have benefited from a bit more depth at times, but I liked it all the same.Of those I've read recently, Galactic Pot-Healer seems to have been the most bizarre and memorable of Dick's.
I've really enjoyed reading through his library this year - so many bizarre, memorable novels, particularly given how short they generally are.
I can think of quite a few sci-fi/fantasy authors that could benefit from similar brevity.Ah, and I recently watched Radio Free Albemuth.
Easily the best book I have ever read about time travel.
Only a genuine paranoid like Philip K.
Without giving the plot away, I will say that one could easily run into oneself coming and going and getting all mixed up in the process.
The Starship Enterprise's transporter problems pale in comparison.I will leave you with this one situation: Imagine the descendants of American Indians hundreds of years in the future coming back via time travel to assassinate the Spanish Conquistadores and others (such as Sir Francis Drake) to change the course of history.
This was a strange little novel. I don't know that it stood the test of time too well, even though it would have been pretty progressive for it's time. Some of his writing -- particularly about women -- wouldn't stand up to modern views at all. Otherwise, his ideas of the ways in which time is immutable vs changeable were quite fascinating and I rather wish the scheme had succeeded so we'd get to experience the fallout (for good or ill). As always, MacLeod Andrews narrates excellently with his audiobooks.
For me, time travel is perhaps a little like sports. I like doing it, but I don't like watching. Our hero teleports to the future where everything is just a little too well controlled... and... well like in all time travel novels, the hero gets back to his "own" time and really hasn't changed anything. Whew!
Though the story is about time travel it is also a mystery. Good plotting and somehow more serious than some of his earlier books.
