https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62555.On_Human_Nature
OBSERVING THE HUMAN ANIMAL Many animals, especially mammals, have evolved social mechanisms to aid in survival. But a few exceptional species, such as wasps, bees and ants, have taken this to the extreme and these are the species that dominate the planet today. They can only be termed as "UltraSocial”.Humans can also be included in this elite list of earth conquerors. After all, we live in the ‘Anthropocene’ now.Wilson asks us to view humans as not an completely exceptional species, in spite of
If we truly want to understand the human species, understanding that they form part of a continuum in nature is essential - socially, cognitively and genetically.If they are truly unique, then they are a lost cause.Instead, being extra humble and situating the human emotions and social inclinations (including violence) in a larger framework of ‘possibilities,’ is what Wilson proposes to do in this book.
Unlike ants who evolved it genetically, over millions of years, we went part of the distance genetically, then got impatient and went on a fast-forward culturally.The leap to agriculture and state societies some 8,000 years ago represented a rare but highly successful evolutionary transition to “ultrasociality,” a type of social organization seen in only a handful of species, including ants and termites.
If we accept human evolution - that we have evolved from creatures spanning back in time to some kind of primal soup – then it would seem odd indeed to argue that this evolution would play no role at all in influencing or even in determining a range of things about us and the societies we are likely to create.
The question really is to what extent does our biology determine the social structures and relations we are likely to enter into, to what extent can acknowledging that we are biological creatures explain these human societies and preferences?Which brings me to my concerns with this book.
nói chung, nội dung quyển sách không có gì mới, chỉ đơn giản là tổng hợp nhiều nguồn thông tin vào làm một.quyển sách bảo dễ hiểu thì chắc chắn là không, nhưng cũng không phải là không quá khó hiểu.
This book was very informative, but maybe a little bit outdated since the field of sociobiology has gone a long way since its inception when this book was written.
It was a mixed bag, while it had moments when it was fascinating and it kept me interested, there were so many times when it was dry that I would start drifting away and not really pay attention to what I was reading.
Now, maybe I was just not in the mood for non-fiction or maybe those parts just weren't written that well.
, Skinner was a sociopath who advocated the creation of a behaviorally engineered utopia, a la Brave New World.After this you know what Wilson is but you're not sure what he's after, and he takes you on a sometimes-interesting journey through the biological origins of aggression, sexuality, altruism and religion.
Now there is reason to entertain the view that the culture of each society travels along one or the other of a set of evolutionary trajectories whose full array is constrained by the genetic rules of human nature.So now he's gone from promoting science to promoting scientific historicism.
This was one of the most interesting books I read during my college exploits as an anthropology major.
If you're ever confused by my way of experiencing the world, read this and you might get a better idea of why I think the way I do.
He basically postulates that our brains are not constructed in a way that would facilitate deciphering or understanding the life, universe and everything else, so we shouldn't freak out about not getting it.
I felt very freed by that notion: we don't understand because we aren't meant to.
For example, Paul Ehrlich's recent book on evolution was entitled On Human Natures (2000), the plural in the title suggesting that it was written at least in part as a reaction to Wilson.
In the final chapter entitled, "Hope," Wilson presents his belief that our world will be improved as scientific materialism becomes the dominate mythology.
He believes that toward that end scientific materialism will be a clear improvement over the religious and political mythologies that now dominate our cultures.No one interested in evolutionary psychology can afford to miss this book, even though it was written the 1970s.
If that perception is correct, science may soon be in a position to investigate the very origin and meaning of human values, from which all ethical pronouncements and much of political practice flow.""The biological significance of sex has been misinterpreted by the theoreticians of Judaism and Christianity.
...The Church takes its authority from natural-law theory, which is based on the idea that immutable mandates are placed by God in human nature.
The laws it addresses are biological, were written by natural selection, require little if any enforcement by religious or secular authorities, and have been erroneously interpreted by theologians writing in ignorance of biology.
Wilson asks if there is anything more important than human nature or, in other words, who we are and why?
And then he proceeded to attempting to answer that question, based on the then-new discipline of "evolutionary psychology." We humans, like any other species, are the result of millions of years of evolution, 99% of which we spent as hunter-gatherers, which makes our needs and responses based pretty much on that experience and not as a result of "civilization" during the last 9000 years or so.
Still readable and eminently relevant almost 40 years after it was published - albeit with a new preface - this slim book was a giant step for mankind, a decisive and heroic attempt to bring together science and the "humanities" by tracing their evolutionary origins.
This is a book I wish I had read 20 years ago.
It has the potential to completely redirect one's life, to make one reconsider so many notions about sex, religion, morality and history.
The book is dated only because there is more data nowadays, but the ideas and ways in which Wilson puts them together have an important contemporary tone and value.A must read.
Even for people who have read a lot on science and anthropology, even if you don't find a new hypothesis or theory in here, the essence of this book is strong and poignant and will make a huge impact on its readers.
2.5 stars for the bad and unorganized writing. I would recommend Pinker's The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature instead of this one. That book was a true delight.
Cách tiếp cận sinh học xã hội khá thú vị, đưa ra nhiều dẫn chứng cụ thể. Lối viết mềm mại, không khô khan. Thích phần đưa ra nan đề và chương cuối hi vọng, cách thức đưa ra vấn đề không biết dùng từ nào khác ngoài từ thú vị, đúng chất một cuốn sách khoa học nhưng không mất đi màu sắc xã hội.
EO Wilson has his moments of obsequiousness, but his ability to calmly state and explain strong signposts of human beings is staggeringly impressive. Especially since this book was written in the 70s. He's definitely a scientist father figure for me. I want to read his ant books.
Edward Wilson is an entomologist specializing in ants, social animals that are as different from humans as any on Earth (coral polyps are even more different, but they are not very behaviorally interesting).
No rat, chimpanzee or any other non-human animal understands the concept of a prime number - and of course, Sloane's Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences has classes of natural numbers that are far more complicated.That the differences between humans and other species are biological in nature is obvious.
That humans are more intelligent than chimpanzees is caused by genetics; what about the measured differences in average IQ between different American racial groups?
And just like that I am now a supporter of training members of a society to eliminate all sexual differences and behaviour as done by diversity quotas in the West or conditioning members of a society to exaggerate the differences between men and women and their behaviours as done by Japan.The book points out that there is a third option that societies can take to deal with gender power-imbalance and that is to actively do nothing other than to provide equal opportunity and access.
In the end, he simply thinks that it is a better myth, one more likely to be vindicated in the ultimate analysis.
His claims that biology can explain the totality of human nature are naive, and at times in the book he comes close to admitting this himself.
I find it telling that this book both begins and ends with positive thoughts and proposals about "controlling reproduction" and "intelligent eugenics".
I have often wondered lately how far back this acceptance of eugenics can be traced, and so I was fascinated to discover that an eminent scholar was advocating it way back in 78, in a book that garnered him a coveted Pulitzer.
It is not surprising that On Human Nature receives a lot of criticism in the social sciences field.
The solution he suggests is to effectively re-engineer the social sciences more thoroughly within the natural sciences.
It is interesting to point out that the 1st dilemma he suggests human society faces is a need for what Paul Tillich calls faith.
Though Wilson tries to rewrite it scientifically it is impossible to ignore this if you have read both authors.
Basically what Wilson suggests is that we engineer culture to promote humaneness.
There are sections on sex, agression, altruism and religion as part of human nature, they would have been amazing if i did not read those modern books on interdisciplinary fields mentioned above before this one.
I regret to say that it could have been 5 stars.Here is 2 ideas i like, but it is subjected to changed in the future when i grow sufficiently and intellectually to criticise it: - "scientific materialism embodied in biology will, through a reexamination of the mind and the foundations of social behavior, serve as a kind of anti‑discipline to the humanities"- Religion would be one day be replaced by science-based mythology.

I have a copy of this book signed to me by E.O. Wilson, with a drawing of an ant as well.
It is a first edition, and is NOT for sale.This is one of the most personally influential books I have ever read.
If that doesn't deserve five stars, what does?On another personal note, this book was given to me by my father, a chemist, after I "stole" it from his library.
He "took" it back, had Wilson sign it, and "snuck" it back into my library.
I had some problems with this book, but the chapter on religion is what caused me to give it 4 rather than 3 stars.
My biggest issue was his random switch from claiming the mind was essentially dispositions for certain behaviors which are adaptive (allow the organism to cope with its environment), to claiming in the last chapter that the mind is merely an epiphenomena of the neuronal machinery of the brain.
Either I'm misreading him or there's a bit of inconsistency on Wilson's part.
Other than a few problems along those lines, it's a great book and a classic exposition of evolutionary psychology.
Fascinating.
Wilson's grander claims of evolutionary biology being the foundation of psychology and sociology and therefore the only solution to the problem of ideology-driven social sciences (further explored in his 1998 book Consilience), have not been vindicated though.
In all, it's a decent book that lacks originality (I realize that I'm projecting current knowledge back in time, which is a bit unfair to Wilson) but has a convincing and interesting message: human nature is, ultimately, biologically rooted and this means human culture, itself a product of biological organisms, is on a genetic leash - albeit a long one.
We have charted the human genome and are currently working on mapping social behaviours to specific genes.
And I know correlation does not cause causation but Wilson's excuses for such behavior is incredibly accurate from my perspective.
I have to admit it can get bland but if you power through, there can be some incredible breakthroughs on, not only why other people do a thing but on why you, yourself do whatever it is that you do.
I feel like this book is everything my professors wanted to tell me but couldn't in fear of losing their job.
I have read it at least twice and I read it when I get bored and feel like learning about people.
very interesting read. Wilson explores how much of human activities are attributed to nature, by the ways of predispositions that arise from genes, and how much is attributed to nurture, by the ways of cultures and social interactions. Written in the 1970's, much of genetic science available now was unknown at the time, but the book explores the new science combining disciplines from sociology and genetics to explain human actions. The book is not technical and is an interesting read.
I am glad that he was able to publish this book before political correctness prohibits scientists from engaging in meaningful researches. This book is an antidote to so much of wrong assumptions made in politics, social sciences and biology today. While the conclusions of the book are surprising and insightful, its reasoning is simple and modest.Given that evolution is true, and humans are a product of evolution, let's use the evolutionary perspective to study the human nature.
Excellent book with a fascinating premise. I found the invocation of cultural evolution as the proximate cause of various phenomena insightful but often vague. Also, the author is very intent on trashing Marxism at every turn, even when it doesn't really seem in tune to the book. The last two chapters do start to verge more onto the author's philosophy but it was a great read overall!
A bit rough going in places, but overall very informative and holds up well after all these years. An important read for those on the right and left that insist that humanity is a blank slate, that culture is everything, that there is no difference between sexes, and that genes and evolution don't have any effect on humans.
Somewhat outdated; Wilson is trying to prove a lot of concepts that, nowadays, are almost mainstream in the scientific field. Nevertheless, a very nice read for those who are new to sociobiology/evolutionary psychology or for those who want to learn more about the history of these areas.
all over the place, but the insights it did offer were unique and deep. I'm looking forward to the "Your Inner Fish Journey", and books by other anthropologist [minded] individuals such as Helen Fisher make more sense in this light.
