https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6250169-unseen-academicals
Football (soccer to Americans like myself) is all the rage in Ankh-Morpork and Vetinari, the Patrician, has given Unseen University the duty of refining it from a street game to an organized event.
Can the Unseen Academicals, with Trevor Likely and the mysterious Mister Nutt, overcome football's rowdiest hooligans?The thing about Terry Pratchett is that while his stories take place in a fantasy world, they are about real world events and concepts.
The romance between Trevor and Juliet is an obvious sendup of Romeo and Juliet, except that they're fans of opposing football teams.The story itself is pretty funny.
One of the questions we asked was, "What football team do you support?" He replied something to the effect of not watching football because he thought it was weird.Warm, fuzzy memories aside, I wanted to love this latest Discworld novel.
However, in the end I didn't love UA - but I did like it.Mostly it felt like business as usual in the Discworld.
I like the familiarity of reading a new Discworld book, like meeting up with an old friend again but, to overstretch an analogy, this felt like they were telling the same story I heard last time I saw them.
I first read this book when it came out in 2009, and to be completely honest with you, I was kinda disappointed.
The book wasn't bad, mind you.
I've known it was just a matter of time before it started to impact his work.
That said, even a somewhat lackluster Pratchett book is pretty good, and I enjoyed the book.
But I read the book again this month, and I enjoyed it much more the second time around.
If I had to guess, I'd say that I was probably expecting the book to be bad, and that colored my initial reading.
The Wizards of unseen University must play a game of football (the round ball variety) to meet some historical statute required to keep them housed and fed to the standard they have come to expect.
This requires taking the current form of the game played in the the streets by thugs and transforming it into a more civilized form watched in a stadium with rules and a referee.
And any Discworld book is still a very good read and lots of fun by any standard.
Like crime, if there is going to be sports, it should at least be organized.The 37th Discworld novel, first published in 2007 is about sports, but like all of Pratchett’s books, Sir Terry stuffs a Librarian (OOK!) sized amount of charisma, philosophy, and human nature into a ball-sized package.Pratchett explores themes of sport in culture (and sport as a less destructive outlet for innate human bellicosity) sport rivalry and stereotypes.
Pratchett examines how gang mentality closely parallels fan mentality and how the expectations of a group do not always apply to the individual.Although Pratchett included many of our favorite Discworld characters in this novel, to me, the most interesting player here was Mr. Nutt.
Star-crossed romance between orc and kitchen maid, underdog sports story, and a heartwarming tale of raising Ankh-Morpork out of the mud and into civilized behavior once and for all.A game of Foot the Ball can make all of that happen.Brilliant?
It has all the elements that people love and this particular Audible production has a full cast of actors and actresses to bring a ton of life to it in an extra-special edition.
I have a grand fondness for full-cast productions.
But despite all that, it *IS* an excellent production that is nonetheless entertaining as hell TO ME.
As fate (or Lord Vetinari) would have it, the son of a legendary Foot-the-Ball player has been incarcerated and the only way to remain free and unpunished is for him to coach the wizards' team.
You see, Unseen University's wizards have to play a match against a team from the city in order to be allowed further funding from the Weatherwax inheritance (in case some are now confused, it's not Granny funding the game, one of the Archchancellors from the beginning of the series had the same surname).
Moreover, Trevor Likely (the afore-mentioned football legend's son) has to take a certain Mr. Nutt as an apprentice.
Strange that, in the scale of Ankh-Morporkian evolution, football arrives after the genesis of iconographs and moving pictures but there you have it.
Surprisingly the arrival of football also coincides with the arrival of high fashion, fashion models (maybe not that surprising given the association between fashion and football a la posh n becks), the rediscovery of the Orc (like the rediscovery of the Coelacanth only much more dangerous) and the arrival of the Avon Lady on the doorsteps of everyone in Ankh-Morpork who is conventional/ traditional/ rich enough to have a door.So as all the dwarves, werewolves, goblins, imps, troll and humans of a female persuasion prepare to adjust to being sports widows for at least the duration of the foot-the-ball season, the men-folk don their scarves and head out onto the streets in search of a match and pie.
The wizards themselves face an identity crisis as well - the Dean has gone off and accepted the Archchancellor's position at another university, and has now come back to try and stand as an equal to Ridcully, the head of the Unseen University.At the center of the book is Nutt, a strange young person who possesses a mysterious past.
How will the old-school, bare-knuckle footy fans deal with the changes imposed upon their game by Lord Vetinari and the Wizards?It's hard for me to filter through the sports aspect of this book, which is disappointing because it's something that a lot of people will probably enjoy.
And trust me, it was very much a pleasure because once again Mr. Pratchett has cast his sharp eye and even sharper critical skills on two cultural phenomena that cry out for both--organized sports and the groves of academe.Frequent visitors to Discworld are familiar with Unseen University, where the best of the world’s wizards, warlocks, sorcerers and magicians impart their wisdom whenever unable to avoid doing so and occupy the remainder of their time ensuring they do not suffer from malnutrition or lack of beverages suitable to accompany their comestibles.In the mean streets of Ankh-Morpork, meanwhile, the citizenry engages in what passes for regular games of foot-the-ball, a game of long standing which leaves few of its players in the same position.
The chart lists this as part of the Rincewind series, but he hardly appears in the book at all and has very little to do with the story.
He’s a fun character; I was looking forward to one last book about him.Our main characters are four non-wizards who work on the staff at Unseen University.
Part of that wasn’t the book’s fault; it was my week to be on call for work, and month end is never the calmest time to be on call, so I was distracted and tired.
What do you get when you mix football, magic, academic rivalry, an orangutan, the world of high (sorry) low fashion, a thumbing of nose (if not outright rasberrying) of Harry Potter, commentary on religion, and a designer named Pepe?Unseen Academicals.Most readers consider the last few Discworld novels to be good, though not great.
There is the shove, there is Mr. Nutt’s feeling that, as Trev points out, is something that isn’t talked about very often.Pratchett also does a far better job at reporting on the concluding match than Rowling does at Quidditch in the Harry Potter series.
Lots of Mustrum Ridcully, we see Vetinari actually drunk, Lady Margolota makes an appearance, and we have passing time with Angua, the Librarian (more than usual), and Rincewind.
Pratchett is at his best when he lets those underly, but not consume, his stories and he's as good as usual here (i.e., this isn't Monstrous Regiment).And as expected, nothing that Vetinari does is what it seems.
As I mentioned earlier, you just don’t understand men.The fact of the matter is, unless Glenda were OBSCENELY strange-looking, pretty much everyone she offered to kiss would have taken her up on it.
And I’m sorry, but a guy who asks for a smackeroo from one girl isn’t going to turn down one from another, just because she’s not as good-looking.
Because while I’m sure that you, personally, might be too fastidious to stick your hand up a girl like Glenda’s skirt, most men would be trying to pull off her drawers before you even realized she was there.Sincerely,Talulah “Mankiller” Mankiller
It should be said though that the bulk of the story follows several new characters: Glenda the head of the Night Kitchen at UU, her ditzy friend Juliet, the head of the Candle Vats and talented foot-the-ball-er Trev Likely, and the mysterious goblin Nutt with a past.
Discworld has never been about plot anyway, its about the characters and the places and Terry provides a masterclass in writing both in this book.
I think this might even be the first Pratchett book I read since his death.
I am not sure if it is just me or did sir Pratchett end up being a bit more of a romantic later on?
I don't think that has ever happened before, not with a Pratchett book.Sadly the actual plot, while not bad, was a bit more fragmented than usual.
I'm not sure if I'd got more out of this if I'd know more about football, or if it just was not one of his best books.
Just not as good as I'm used to when reading Pratchett.
The wizards have never been my favorite, and we keep getting a dose of new characters, and football is hardly my favorite topic, but, for all of that, it was still an enjoyable story.
It'll most likely never be one of my faves, but it was good.I liked Nutt and Glenda, and wouldn't mind seeing them again, but I particularly liked the addition of Mr. Hix to the UU staff - the man with the skull ring who has license to be just a little bit evil, and to say the things everyone else is thinking.
And I shall have to see about getting myself a skull ring.
https://www.austcrimefiction.org/blog...
"Unseen Academicals" gives us a good dose of Lord Ventinari (the city's wonderful tyrant) and a giant dose of the scholars of Unseen University.As I dived into this book and started devouring it page by page, I was once again impressed -- actually astounded -- by Pratchett's ability to take mediocre events or situations and describe them in such a clever and hilarious way that you laugh out loud uncontrollably.
Sadly, it's Pratchett's narrative wit that makes the Discworld series very hard to convert into movie format.
If you are new to the Discworld series, check out Terry Pratchett's website (http://www.terrypratchettbooks.com/) for a comprehensive list of his books.
Which is fine, except that Jingo, some sixteen books earlier in the series, features Carrot carrying around a flattened football during war, and using it - and the rules of football - to actually end the war between Klatch and Ankh-Morpork.
When I first realised that (and yes, I know I'm being super nitpicky), I thought that maybe this book was supposed to be set somewhere prior to the events of Jingo.
So essentially, it feels like Pratchett undid canon just to write a book about sport.
Partly it's because it's a book about sport, and I just didn't care.
Luego me dije, no será de Rincewind, pero va de magos y futbol, debe ser algo así como el Quidditch, pero…Los magos de este libro no hacen magia, lo que para mí es un gran desperdicio, admito que no debió causarme tanta sorpresa, ya que Rincewind por lo general no es muy diestro en estas artes.
Por ultimo me dije, bueno es un libro de Pratchett, por lo menos me riere, adivinen que…No me reí en toda la historia, ni siquiera una media sonrisa, si tiene chistes o son muy malos o a mí no me hicieron gracia.En resumen, este libro es, Rincewind sin Rincewind, Magia sin magia, Futbol casi sin Futbol, nada de chistoso y una pérdida de tiempo.
Very fun to read, but it ended quite quickly, without the usual bang.
All in all, it's a good Discworld book.And something I've been thinking while reading the book, but not really provoked by it:It seems more and more civil concepts from our world are starting their own life in Ankh Morpork.
Maybe losing a little bit of its brightness or spark.
Maybe it's just me, but everything starting to work just as it does in our own world, even beautifully described with the usual flawless sense of humor, takes a little bit of the magic with every book.
The books themselves are really good, though.
Fortunately for those of us who don't care too much about sports in-general, the reoccurring characters more than make up for the intrusion.
I will always enjoy these series of books because they're gentle and wise and so wise-cracking and quite un-genteel.I think, for lack of a large cast of favorite Orcish characters in my life, I feel I'll be doing an injustice in calling Nutt my favorite Orcish of them all.
Wizards play soccer.
I could leave it at there and let you imagine their pointy hats wiggling across the field.
That's almost a sales pitch in and of itself.No artists ailments affect me quite like Pratchett's weird version of Alzheimer's.
If it were some authors I like, I'd be upset, but for many of them, their best work is in the past.
It's troubling with Pratchett because his books just keep getting more compelling.What sounds like a high concept comedy ends up being a pretty bright discussion of games and how they effect society.
It's one more subject injected into the social microcosm of Ank-Morpork.
3.5 stars, but this time I rounded down, because it took me weeks to get through this.Look, it's fun.
Pratchett poking fun at sports (the chanting - HEH), while also highlighting some of the good things about it.
Pratchett is always clever, and the character work is good.
Ponder is my favourite, but Ridicully has been consistently growing on me.
But then I remember how long it took me to get into this (it picks up at the halfway point), and I stuck with my original instinct.
I wonder if the problem was one of being slightly too long...Fun, but not a favourite.
„Ono ji to jen povzbudí.“)přeložil Kantůrek takto:„Je samozřejmě potřeba jít s dobou, podporovat novinky,“ pokračoval Patricij a potřásl při tom smutně hlavou.„No, my se to snažíme na druhé straně nedělat,“ zabručel Výsměšek.
Ideální situace nastává tam, kde překládat netřeba: hostující profesor z Genovy a geniální fotbalista Bengo (česky Bingo) Macarona, to je srozumitelné po celém světě.Všechno nelze svalovat na překladatele: originál je plný slangu, fotbalových a historických narážek, u nichž sice poznáte, že to jsou narážky, ale nepoznáte, na co...
With the help of Glenda the night kitchen cook (maker of amazing pies), Mr Nutt the possible goblin, who isn't worthy but talks posh and knows everything, lazy Trev the talented tin can kicker and son of hero Dave Likely, beautiful empty headed Juliet (soon to sought after by the dwarf fashion world) and of course our dear tyrant Lord Vetinari, this looks to becoming one of the biggest matches of the city.Very fun and piss taking which I love.
I am a fan of Terry Pratchett (RIP).
But this one was a bit less to my liking.
Still funny, creative, enjoyable, but got bored by the long and slow lead-in, and by lots of football (soccer) details.
I even checked Wiki info, and found that many jokes (names of teams, specific plays etc) are very specific references to the UK soccer world, which was pretty incomprehensible to me except very generally.Note: the book cover seems to show a basketball, not a soccer ball, and hands reaching for it, while the book deals with football (soccer) where hands touching the ball is against the rules.
Редовно препрочитана и много любима, макар че е от книгите, в които някак си личи, че Пратчет... вече няма време.Препълнена и прелива от вече не толкова смешни, но супер, невероятно важни елементи от неговите възгледи за света и мястото на различните в него.Накратко - много яка книга и мегазабавна, но горчива като лекарство.
След като Пратчет с думи ни нарисува гротесков свят и ни поразходи из музикалния бизнес (Музика за душата), киното и телевизията (Подвижни картини), операта и театъра (Маскарад), пресата и медиите (Истината), сред пощите и телекомуникации (Пощоряване), монетарна система и банки (Опаричване), философия и религия (Малки богове), туризъм и пътувания (Вещици в чужбина), всички се питаха кога Пратчет ще засегне и спорта, или по-точно един от най-забележимите социални феномени, не само във Великобритания, ами и в целия свят.
