https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117484.Capital_of_Pain
Etchings by John Thein.(not the cover; that's Picasso)And also some color plates, maybe by other artists.A solid but rarely amazing or moving collection of short poems.Eluard is pretty old-school regarding women, which some readers may find tiresome.
Currently, I rediscover with happiness the French poets of the early twentieth century. Decidedly, the surreal nebula was particularly talented, fruitful and innovative. Paul Eluard was one of the greatest, transforming everything he touched into (true) poetry.Capital of Pain (what a beautiful title!) gathers texts written between 1914 and 1926, generally shorter. Some are bolder than others, but all are easy to read. Some of them seem small masterpieces, others hang a little less my attention, but almost all sound very good. There are flashes and gently suggestive images, which must not be analyzed too rationally.
He feels her tantalising power as a sweet burden he cannot get rid of, lest he loses part of his own enchanted self; so that Gala is finally identified with the truest source of his poetry:'The shape of your heart is chimerical And your love resembles my lost desireOh whispers of amber, dreams, glances.'("Nouveaux poèmes")These short poems are delicate glimpses, dreamy psychological landscapes, photographs of intimate moments of joy and meditation.
A deserted beach in the warm light of a summer sunset, a bedroom in the cool glow of a winter starry night: Gala, bathing in the sea or lying naked in bed, is the core of all poetic contemplation, the world in which the poet lives and the source of his inner light.
61)Devoured by feathers and obedient to the sea,He let his shadow pass through the flightOf the birds of freedom.He leftThe ramp to those who fall in the rain,He left their roof to all those who prove themselves true.His body was in order,The body of others came to disruptThis arrangement he keptWhen his blood first marked the earth.His eyes are inside a wallAnd his face is their heavy ornament.Another lie by day,Another night, there are no more blind men.
To sleep, with the moon in one eyeand the sun in the other,Love in your mouth,a lovely bird in your hair,Adorned like the fields,the woods, the routes, the sea,around the whole world so lovely and adorned.Flee across the landscapeThrough branches of smoke and all the fruits of the wind,Stone legs with sand stockings,Held by the waist, all the river's muscles,And the last concern on a face transformed.
Oh, man-- a beautiful read. I became curiouse of Eluard because of Godard's Alphaville, in which lines were frequently quoted.
Un sonnet surréaliste, est-ce possible ? Oui, répond Éluard. Intraitable sur la création d'images neuves, surprenantes, irrationnelles, telles que les aimait le jeune surréalisme des années 20, à la recherche de l'expression directe de l'inconscient, il ne s'en montre pas moins, dès "Capitale de la douleur" ou "L'Amour la poésie" (qui fait la deuxième partie du recueil), un maître du vers français, fût-il libre. Ses allitérations vous font des frissons dans le cou. Un maître, c'est un maître, même à trente ans, même engagé dans un étrange combat contre une littérature qu'il croit morte et qu'il revivifie.
-  Graff in Le Port du Légué, Saint-Brieuc, France  (...)Je chante la grande joie de te chanter,La grande joie de t’avoir ou de ne pas t’avoir,La candeur de t’attendre, l’innocence de te connaitre,Ô toi qui supprimes l’oubli, l’espoir et l’ignorance,Qui supprimes l’absence et qui me mets au monde,Je chante pour chanter, je t’aime pour chanterLe mystère où l’amour me crée et se délivre.(...) Celle de toujours, toute - Paul Éluard
Beautiful insight into a broken man's thought, a stellar path onto which he embarks on the journey to healing his wounds. I love Eluard's poetry, no matter how ambiguous, which surprised me since I'm not usually one to take a fancy in Surrealism... I've been proved wrong. One of the best school reads I've completed, and now a favourite of mine!
I need guidance for this kind of poetry. Most of it goes right over my head. Some gorgeous lines like 'elle chantait les minutes sans s'endormir' but ...
I adore Eluard to no end, but this awful transl(iter)ation of 'Capital of Pain' is a huge disappointment. I'd buy this edition solely for the original French work, which is included in full.
My fav is "Pablo Picasso"I got introduced to this book while reading Milan Kundera's "Life is Elsewhere"
Of all the four sections (Repetitions, To Die of Not Dying, The Little Just Ones, New Poems), I like them all the most.
From To Die of Not Dying the words deigned to be rewritten, renewed in memory.
New Poems holds gems.
Beauty and truth adequately expressed arrive from harmony in moments of syntactic peculiarities.
Love and loneliness inundate the poems.
To name a few: "Nakedness of the Truth," "Giorgio de Chirico" "She Who May Not Speak," "Broad Daylight," "Inside the Cylinder of Tribulations," "Among Few Others," "One," both the "Max Ernst" poems, "Hidden," and "In the Dance".
Finalement j'ai fini ce livre. Je l'ai détesté. Ce poète, d'ailleurs aimé par beaucoup des gens, ne me parle pas, à moi. Il ne sait rien me dire... Ou moi, je ne l'entend pas. Des images sans signification, des mêlanges de registres, des répétitions à l'infini (il y a des oiseaux partout...), des descriptions très abstraites et vagues et universelles, déjà rebattues. Il se peut aussi que mon français n'en soit pas à la hauteur. Mais j'en doute. Mais j'espère.A peine j'en aimé un ou deux, déjà oubliés.
Quand la Mélancolie et l'Amour s’enchevêtrent ... Un recueil écrit par Paul Eluard, un surréaliste fou amoureux de son épouse Gala, sa Muse. Le jeu de langage, les 'techniques' surréalistes voire même dadaïstes sont présentes dans ce chef-d’œuvre. André Breton, le chef de file du mouvement surréaliste, parle souvent des "mouvements du cœur" dont Eluard a bien su produire par le biais de la langue. Une oeuvre à lire et à relire.
Éluard genera unos poemas surrealistas (y sí, poemas, no escritos. Bretón escribía surrealismo desde el surrealismo; Éluard escribe surrealismo desde la poesía) tienen una magia única.No crea, Paul Éluard, grandes composiciones en su totalidad.... Mas sí grandes metáforas, grandes aforismos inscritos en sus estrofas.
Mais tu n'as pas toujours été avec moi. Ma mémoire. Est encore obscurcie de t'avoir vu venir. Et partir. Le temps se sert de mots comme l'amour.Je t 'ai saisie et depuis, ivre de larmes, je baise partout pour toi l'espace abandonné.
Such a gorgeous editions. &, of course, the poems.
very good!
« Dormons mes frères.Le chapitre inexplicable est devenu incompréhensible. »-Silence de l Évangile (p 60)
“I cannot be knownBetter than you know me"- Paul Éluard
Eluard's famed collection of poems does both, but like a lightning bolt for ME, he accomplishes the latter with zeal.This is a book of surrealist poetry which people in the 1920s carried around in their backpacks, argued about in cafes, and read to each other when they were in love and in pain.
Honestly, you need not know very much about surrealism or surrealist poetry, though Mary Ann Caws's essay at the end of the collection is very helpful indeed.
Eluard's poems (and to some extent, Caws's essay) have quickened in me the spirit to rush that path with my arms ablaze.
Comment prendre plaisir à tout ?Plutôt tout effacer.L’homme de tous les mouvements,De tous les sacrifices et de toutes les conquêtesDort. Il dort, il dort, il dort.Il raye de ses soupirs la nuit minuscule, invisible.Il n’a ni froid, ni chaud.Son prisonnier s’est évadé – pour dormirIl n’est pas mort, il dort.Quand il s’est endormiTout l’étonnait,Il jouait avec ardeur,Il regardait,Il entendait.Sa dernière parole :« Si c’était à recommencer, je te rencontrerais sans te chercher. »Il dort, il dort, il dort.L’aube a eu beau lever la tête,Il dort.
I have the first edition of this book, which means I have the aesthetically pleasing Picasso cover, the vibrant red inner jacket, and the coloured, glossy pages of art inside. The poetry is good but mixed with the visuals this is a lovely book to own.
Not as good as I expected after having read the 1950 New Directions Eluard edition; I think his work improved over time and these early poems lack the unity of content, form, indignation, and imagination that succeeds in his war poetry.
Un des meilleurs poète surréaliste, avec un jeu des mots qui fera rêver dans les nuits des étoiles peintes sur le papier du voisin du café dà côté."Jai la beauté facile et cést heureux..." Paul Eluard.
Un des meilleurs poète surréaliste, avec un jeu des mots qui fera rêver dans les nuits des étoiles peintes sur le papier du voisin du café d´à côté."J´ai la beauté facile et cést heureux..." Paul Eluard.
un beau livre, mais également idiot
Love this beautiful illustrated Grossman edition of these essential surrealist poems
A good poetry book to dip in and out of…like a summer breeze that knows no time but understands the direction of things that it is interrupting.
