https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205132.Orpheus_Descending
Val, the musician (our Orpheus) strand out in a variety of ways, but mostly because he is capable of sincerity and tenderness.
The myth of Orpheus is retold and art founds a wonderful and befitting personification in the character of Val. The play is certainly tragic but very touching and profound in its tragedy.
What I did not expect from this play was the strength of its message, the way its characters and story merged into one.
In one way, this play can be read as a commentary on art itself, in another it can be read as a story.
In fact, he wrote poetry for much of his life, and he and his firmest advocate - James Laughlin, the founder of the New Directions publishing house, where almost all of Williams' texts (plays, poetry, short stories, two novels, essays, memoirs) first appeared - formed their lifelong bond after an enthused evening discussing their favorite poets.
Orpheus Descending is indeed chock-a-block full of secondary characters who are types - real types - but types nonetheless, and each played a useful/necessary role in the piece.(***) It is a mystery to me that some critics label Williams as a "naturalist" or as a "realist".
I really enjoyed this Williams play.
There's a lot going on but it's all very focused and tightly woven together.
The plot and the character developments of both Lady and Val are well balanced out.
One can see that Williams was in total control here, and I like that the stage directions weren't overly intrusive, just well-elaborated at the start of a scene.
And unlike some of his other plays, including the good ones, even the secondary character were really interesting and could've been easily developed further were it necessary.
After a while, these plays start to feel like mix and match.
On paper, I find them to be a bit flat, but I know that a good actor and director can really find the life in them, and that the flatness is mostly the result of my laziness.I didn't much like either of the two main metaphors.
The characters seem drawn to this image, which they see as a metaphor for freedom?
The other idea I didn't like so much is that we are all prisoners condemned to solitary confinement in our own skins.
نصری که نمایشنامه های ویلیامز رو شاخص میکنه نشان دادن ذات غریزی انسان هاست ...
به نظر میرسه که هسته اغلب نمایش های او اعتقادی که به تغییر ناپذیری خصوصیات ذاتی و عقده های روحی وارد بر انسان هاست .
در نزول اورفیوس هم شخصیت هایی رو به تصویر میکشه که فقط برای گرفتن انتقام و حذف انسان های دیگه زندگی میکنن و اگر این ویژگس در بشر وجود نداشت او از همان لحظه افرینش دچار پوچی میشد .
نام نمایشنامه هم اشاره ای هست به سقوط یکی انسان خدا های اساطیر یونان که به نقش وال نمایشنامه ویلیامز شباهت زیادی داره .
Not Williams' best but quite strong nonetheless. All that's typical to Williams - women, men and athmosphere - are there although the theme is occasionally a bit hard to get a grasp of. At least the theme isn't as prominent and clear as it is in The Streetcar Named Desire or The Glass Menagerie. Orpheus Descending was one of the very first plays I saw in a theatre, which might make it more memorable than it actually is. Subsequent reading didn't felt the same. But still, I'm a devoted fan of Williams.
Orpheus descending is the beautiful story of love and hate in a small town. Secrets and passion. Its simple and beutiful, my favorite of Williams' plays. This is something that everyone can relate to and it deserves to be read.
Now that I've finished reading this, I feel massively bereft that I was not able to see this rarely produced play during its run in LA this January  with Gale Harold in the cast.  (Sobs piteously)
Despite a number of obvious flaws and a place of relative obscurity in Williams' body of work, I consider Orpheus Descending to be my favorite of his plays that I've read so far.
The best conversations are reserved for him and Lady, but his role as a catalyst of both creation and destruction for all the women is fascinating—and it's made better by the fact that this baffles him to no end.I think this one falls on shaky territory because of the blunt and unforgiving violence.
But I have yet to experience violence as abrupt and cruel as the kind exacted in Orpheus, and this is in printed words alone.
I like to think that Tennessee Williams wrote to entertain an audience; he was always trying to create dialogue that diverse people could enjoy equally and learn from.
To reduce his work to something liked or not would be unfair considering his own efforts to relate to us in a meaningful way.I believe with this play and within almost any hard work, there must be some value or a collection of values to take away from something I've invested my time in as an audience member.Even if it was the way he wrote that single line, or the particular flaw he describes in one character that I found pleasing, I am convinced that these bits of value lie within all art and especially writing.
Tennessee Williams is a brilliant writer, and as few have suggested below, continues to demonstrate his talent in many parts of this play.
Not sure the story is quite as thrilling as his other works but I am drawn to Lady.
Williams (in my opinion) went a little heavy on the direction in writing this, in that he is more controlling in how he wants the action played out than some of his earlier work.
Lady and Val are super interesting though.
Maybe because I find the beginning part of a relationship, whether it is a friendship or something more, most fascinating.
How people reveal bits of themselves to others: what they do reveal, what they choose to omit, etc.
Gentle tragedy, melancholy and sorrow that for me defines the works of Tennessee Williams is doing its thing again in this play.
There is a sensitive Italian women capable of great love and passion reminiscent of protagonist in The Rose Tattoo, there is the Orpheus who (like his original in the Greek mythology) is seductive but lacking in strength and there is the Lady- reminiscent of Blanche- a women searching for love in the wrong places.
However, Lady unlike Blanche finds at least a friend in modern Orpheus and I found that somehow very comforting.
It exposes human weaknesses and their tragedy.Some think that this is one of his lesser play.
A revised version of Battle of Angels. Reading these plays in order has been fascinating, as it shows how an author defines concepts and characters over years of experience. Williams had already written three masterpieces by the time this came out, so his grasp of character improved on the characters in this play. Also, after spending time abroad and becoming enamored with Italy, he added the immigrant aspect into this play. Overall it's a stronger play than Battle of Angels, with Williams keeping what was good in the original and toning down some of the more outrageous character behavior.
What a wonderful hot mess of a play--like the bastard child of Williams and O'Neil. This play is filled with some of Williams's most gorgeous speeches but at any moment seems about to collapse into hysterical camp.
I just finished playing the role of Val Xavier. A truly amazing experience that will live in me forever. I learned much more than was written in those pages. Thank you Tennessee Williams.
My all time favorite Tennessee William plays.
Tennessee Williams' Orpheus DescendingTennessee Williams (1911 -- 1983) currently [2004] is getting a great deal of attention in Washington, D.C. The Kennedy Center is presenting three of his major dramas performed by marquis stars.
It lead me to read the play and to think about it, about Tennessee Williams, and about passionate and romantic theater.Orpheus Descending was first presented on Broadway in 1957 where it enjoyed a brief run and only modest success.
and the acceptance of prescribed answers that are not answers at all."The play is a retelling of the Orpheus legend and deals, in the most elemental fashion, with the power of passion, art, and imagination to redeem life and return it to meaning.
The drama of the play doesn't quite live up to a portentous title of "Orpheus Descending", in fact it seems a little soap opera-ish at times with the chorus of busybody ladies and the shenanigans between Lady and Val literally under Jabe's presence.
The plot is essentially: "A Stranger Comes to Town".Still, there are many things to appreciate: the closeted feel of a southern town where everybody knows everybody else's business and in fact thinks it is their business, the characterizations of Val and Lady, the surreal Conjure Man, and the associated Orpheus imagery that fit in nicely to Williams' own style.
A retelling of the myth Orpheus set in the American South, I liked the idea more than the execution. I don’t think the setting and myth connected the way Williams intended, and for me, the result felt more like stilted melodramatic soap opera than an emotionally-searing drama about the darkness of the humanity. But oh, how I love this idea – I can see why the idea captured Williams’s imagination. Perhaps if I saw it staged, I would feel differently. But on page, the play falls short. Quasi-recommended.
Another GREAT play by Tennessee Williams. Val is, in some ways, a tragic figure and the embodiment of Dionysiac revelry, who tries to mingle with the people of a pseudo-/hypocritical-conservative Southern community, where gossip and envy make him the perfect scapegoat. The characters are authentic, especially Lady and Val, and the play has the element of dreaminess, present in the Glass Menagerie, although 'Orpheus' is a more realistic play. All in all, a good read indeed -one that conveys the atmosphere of a film.
Very strong soap-opera vibes. The play takes place in a small Southern town where everyone knows everyone’s business but the ultimate drama seemed to fall flat and felt cheesy. Yet, Williams is a stunning poetic playwright so the play itself is filled with gorgeous speeches, especially from Lady. But I can’t help feeling like I wouldn’t want to see this produced today. It feels dated... and at times is quite racist. A very mediocre 3 stars.
I said what on earth can you do on this earth but catch of whatever comes near you with both your hands until your fingers are broken?I never been in a position where I could turn down something I got for nothing in my life.The ones that work days in cities and the ones that work nights in cities, they live in different cities.Tennessee Williams Rules!
Ambitious three-act drama, filled with typical moments of hard, crystallized truth. The dialogue is messy and overlaps, with the occasional, natural mistake. Like most of Williams' plays, this would be better performed or read aloud. I enjoyed it for all its ambition, and the vicious ending.
I was excited about this play because of the Orpheus-related title. What I got was a play very thing in allusion and myth-layering that was actually kind of dull. The characters seemed flat and I couldn't get myself particularly invested in their story. Not Williams' best work.My rating: 3/5
Awesome! Reminiscent of something by Harry Crews. Or maybe something by Harry Crews is reminiscent of this.
I love this play. Easy play to read, so visual and full and tragic. More evocative than many novels I've read.
Whenever I experience Tennessee Williams, I know it's going to get real.
Brutal and tragic, it seems as if this play is a message, a warning to live life on your own terms or suffer the consequences.
"All right.
Take me out to Cypress Hill in my car.
And we'll hear the dead people talk.
They do talk there.
They chatter together like birds on Cypress Hill, but all they say is one word and that one word is 'live,' they say 'Live, live, live, live, live!' It's all they've learned, it's the only advice they can give.-Just live"
The play takes place in the store owned by Jabe Torrance, sick and close to death, almost absent from the scene, pervaded by many characters among which his wife Lady and Val, a young man of dubious past, stand out.The reference to the Greek myth is very evanescent and hard to find. The play is however very enjoyable, humorous with the nosy rumours of a small town, absurd at times, yet dark in its essence. Even more enjoyable are the (improbable) introductions to the scenes and directions for the actors the writer gives.
Hm, read it once a while ago, don't remember , not remarkable at all for me or
*Read for class*
