https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5364.Dragonfly_in_Amber
I AM DONE! WOW. Just wow. That ending. woah. Within 40 pages I ugly cried, my heart exploded in feels, confusion happened, hope, and now I'm mind blown by the ending. WOW. Diana, you've done it again! Took me awhile to get into DiA but once i got past the 300 page mark it got so good and kept on getting better. 5/5 stars!
Gabaldon's sex-ridden, hugely researched, academically adventurous, time travel/sci-fi meets historical romance novels qualify as trash novels for lit nerds -- they're absolutely a guilty pleasure.
Can't really go wrong.The books were recommended to me while I was living in England, and a lucky thing, too, because had I taken one look at the Fabio-in-a-kilt-of-passion American paperback cover I would have refused to read it (note: the British version was called Cross Stitch and the cover had a less-than-sexy field of heather on it).
Gabaldon has a way with characters and her prose flows along at an engaging clip.
They are staying in Scotland and visiting all of the old sites and Claire took her to see a man named Roger.
Claire and Jamie thought he was dead.
Claire thinks it was because Jamie was dueling with Randall (there is a lot of stuff behind that) but she was poisoned at one point and attacked so who really knows.
Jamie gets put in jail and has no idea what happened to Claire.
But Claire had to have sex with the weird king to get Jamie out of jail.
There are other things and more battle and Jamie sends Claire back.
And the general size of her books is off-putting, she should have left out those bits that we didn't need to hear and gave the readers a much less forboding 400-500 page novel.The start of this book was even slower than Outlander, who actually cares about Roger Wakefield here?
We are then taken back in time to when Claire and Jamie are in France trying to stop the rebellion before it ever happened.
If such a huge thing happened, it is likely that everything would change and unlikely that Claire Randall would ever have ended up in Scotland at exactly that time to go wandering through the stones.
*4.5 STARS* I've never cried so hard in my life over fictional characters before
“Hey Claire, you look a little older than the last time I saw you,moments ago , but don’t worry you still look young and fresh and beautiful.”“Oh thank you Stephanie, I have to admit that people mention that a lot!
I’m afraid to ask, but what were you and Jamie up to during the rest of the time you were back in time, besides getting drunk and having lots of sex?”“We tried to change history by joining the Jacobite cause and save a bunch of lives.
Please, don’t mess with history anymore Claire.
SWEET BLEEDING JESUS!!! I KNEW IT!!!!!!! DAMNED BLOODY FUCKING CLIFFHANGERS!!!!! Sensational story!!!! 5 STARS ★★★★★ [image error]  ”We are bound, you and I, and nothing on this earth shall part me from you.” What can I say? I am completely BLOWN AWAY by this series!!!! An amazing sequel to Outlander, this book brings Claire and Jamie through a tumultuous quest to try and change history in order to save Scotland from a pointless but inevitable war that will eventually result in the deaths of tho
An amazing sequel to Outlander, this book brings Claire and Jamie through a tumultuous quest to try and change history in order to save Scotland from a pointless but inevitable war that will eventually result in the deaths of thousands of Highland clansmen.
And Claire and Jamie both realize that this new position will allow them access to the best aristocratic circles in Paris, and thus to Charles Stuart, and even to King Louis himself.[image error]
And amongst the characters from the first book, there were some additions to the story that I really loved.
I got hooked on the Outlander series last year when I read the first book in this series by Diana Gabaldon.
I'm a major fan, especially because followers on my blog selected this as my 'Book Bucket List' read for May 2018.
When that happens, the action and plot (usually my most important element in a book) feels pushed to the side.
If you love a touch of fantasy and historical fiction, and don't mind strong sexual content, then you need to give this a chance, even if the entire series is around 8k pages at this point.
New poll to be setup today for June's Book Bucket List read.
Having enjoyed the first volume of this series, I was expecting something good of this one, so I'm a bit sad it didn't match my expectations.First, because in the first and final parts, the point of view jumps around from first person (Claire) to third person, due to the fact that we follow another character and Claire isn't always there.
We go on a long flashback, this one told only from Claire's point of view, picking up where the first volume left us.
But, if this was pulled nicely on the previous volume, the same doesn't happen here, making the book dull and dragging where there was no need.
While I did enjoy the furthering of Jamie and Claire's story, I think the format of this book didn't work for me.
The fact that the slow beginning in present day takes so much time to lead into the past events that happened right after Outlander made it difficult to connect, and perhaps this was not the best choice for an audiobook at the moment, despite my love of all things Davina Porter.
I guess to sum it up, it felt like the story was a worthy one, but the way it was told made it feel like this was a filler book, as we end up precisely where we began.
The short of it is that the romantic hero character perpetuates rape culture by using the words 'rape' and 'sex' synonymously, blaming sexual assault on what the woman is wearing, and claiming that once men get aroused they literally cannot stop themselves from ravaging anyone nearby.
That's my problem with it.Also, if you don't know what an emotionally abusive and controlling relationship looks like, read the last 3 paragraphs of page 677 and the first half of page 678.
I had so many problems with the sexism and rape culture in this book that you may be wondering why I gave it 2 stars?
This is the sequel to Outlander, and begins in 1968, twenty-one years after we left Claire and Jaime recovering in the French Abbey, pondering their decision to try and stop Bonnie Prince Charlie from starting a war which they know will decimate the Highland Clans.At first, this is such a jolt you think you've picked up the wrong book.
There was no guide on pronounciation, but there was one of those ads for the next book, Voyager, which begins by stating that Claire has gone back to 18th century Scotland because she believes Jaimie is still alive.This was a bit of a mixed blessing.
OK, so admittedly, it took me a really long time to finish this book, and yes, I have some problems with it.
While it started off great (mostly, I think, due to the fact that I was still coming down off the high caused by the first book), the story quickly devolved into a mess of boring details and gut-wrenching melodrama.
I did so in a few hours (admittedly, I skimmed some, as this is not a book that can be read in its entirety in a few hours).
It's that the book is too long simply due to the endless political machinations and battle descriptions.
This book basks the reader in lush descriptions of 18th century European history, from the political intrigue in the courts of King Louis XV of France, to the everyday life of a merchant, to the inner workings of hospitals of that time.
All in all, Diana Gabaldon simply has a wonderful way with painting word pictures that just swept me up in the story and made me feel like I had indeed been transported back in time.Just because I think that Dragonfly in Amber is stronger as a historical novel, does not mean that the other elements were in any way lacking.
I'm supposed to have this read by Sunday afternoon."Okay, Wendy's book group will meet tomorrow to discuss book three in the Outlander series, but I just finished this second one, and man, it was a long haul, and I don't just mean the length.What didn't work for me: the self-satisfied tone of the author's voice behind her main character, repetitive phrases (mouths always "twitching" rather than almost smiling), excessive detail without sensory or emotional power, too much "telling" rather than "showing," muddy use of multiple points of view, over-the-top plot turns and one too many narrow escapes.
For twenty years Claire Randall has kept her secrets. But now she is returning with her grown daughter to Scotland’s majestic mist-shrouded hills. Here Claire plans to reveal a truth as stunning as the events that gave it birth: about the mystery of an ancient circle of standing stones ... about a love that transcends the boundaries of time ... and about James Fraser, a Scottish warrior whose gallantry once drew a young Claire from the security of her century to the dangers of his.... I will sa
Twenty years have passed and Claire returns to Scotland to try and unravel some secrets.I fell in love with Jamie in the first book, Outlander.
Let me tell ye in your sleep how much I love you.
I already did with the first one when I saw something on Pinterest.As I said in my review for the previous book, I hope my son gets his place at Edinburgh Univeristy and I can walk in the footsteps of Jamie and Claire Fraser.
This book completely blew my mind. I am in awe by Diana Gabaldon's ability to write something so beautiful and descriptive, so exciting and so heartbreaking. Yes it took me about a month overall to read because there are parts which can be slow and dense, but I appreciate so much being able to really take my time with a story and become so invested in the history, the plot and the characters.And these characters!!!! They have totally taken a hold of my heart and I don't see them letting go any time soon.
Tears.  Read this review and others over on my blogBetween the sheets & covers blog Between the sheets & covers blog Between the sheets & covers blog
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest🎃 Read for the Unapologetic Romance Readers  Halloween 2017 Reading Challenge  for the category of: a romance with a Celtic theme 🎃I recently reread and reviewed OUTLANDER, to see if it would hold up to my initial reading. To my pleasant surprise, it did. I enjoyed the book so much that I immediately launched into the sequel, DRAGONFLY IN AMBER. The book starts out in the present day for Claire - the 1960s. Now she has a daughter in her 20s
After a hundred pages or so, the book slips back into the 18th century, to Charles Stuart as he holds court in France, and, of course, to Claire and Jamie's desperate attempts to avert the Battle of Culloden.Usually time travelers do everything they can not to change the course of history.
I'm a die-hard romance fan, and I guess it makes me sad that a romance novelist whose work I respect and admire seems to be trying so hard to distance herself from the genre in a way that almost seems as though she considers herself to be superior to it.That aside, the Outlander series has, thus far, caused me to read about 2,000 pages about the same characters without becoming utterly fed-up.
In this enthralling sequel to the hard-to-forget "Outlander" we're once more cast upon ancient European lands of yore with a roving eye which captures both the historical revisionism AND its own inherent nonsensicality attached to the serious-as-stone (heh heh) time traveling theme.
Yes, because it's so ambitiously girthy and practically pointillist in its detail, it has a rollercoaster line plot that does nothing if not take the reader by surprise.
Even a history buff learned in 1700s Scotland and France will not be able to tell where Dragonfly in Amber will land.
LET THE KILT DROP #2SERIES:         This series is comprised of one epic story. Each book is like a chapter in that larger story. It is recommended that you read the books in the order they were published. To find out when book 9 will be released click here.Novellas:  (#7.5)(#8.5)
UPDATE:This book was even better second time around! Probably because I knew what to expect so I didn’t feel like I would die of anxiety attack every other chapter and could properly enjoy/feel all the tiny details/emotions of this story.REVIEW: “I’m honest enough to say that I dinna care what the right and wrong of it may be, so long as you are here wi’ me, Claire,” he said softly. “If it was a sin for you to choose me…then I would go to the Devil himself and bless him for tempting ye to it.” -
Probably because I knew what to expect so I didn’t feel like I would die of anxiety attack every other chapter and could properly enjoy/feel all the tiny details/emotions of this story.REVIEW:
I love Jamie's playfulness, temper and selflessness.I love Claire's wit and determination.I love Mrs. Gabaldon's writing abilities and complex storytelling skills.And I freaking adore this series!Do not make any excuses, you have to read and experience this epic story yourself!James Fraser in all his glory:
It was a small, clean sound, like the snapping of a flower's stem.” - Claire
Reading Is My Breathing
Resumen de lo que este libro ha hecho con mi vida:¡CÓMO HE LLORADO COÑO!
I wonder how Gabaldon is going to handle the issue in her future books, but I couldn't quite understand why for instance Claire would stop Jamie from killing Jack Randall to ensure the birth of her 1st husband Frank, but would readily agree to try to change the course of history knowing that the consequences of it could in theory affect the lives of millions of people, including Claire's.
Because so far Claire and Jamie have been unable to stop anything from happening.In spite of these concerns, "Dragonfly in Amber" is still an engrossing read which makes you both happy and sad, heartbroken and delighted.
"For I had come back, and I dreamed once more, in the cool air of the Highlands. And the choice of my dream still echoed through ears and heart, repeated with the sound of Brianna's sleeping breath." For those of you who haven't read Outlander, I'd think any reviews for books further in the series would be spoiler-ish...mine included. I'm sitting here dumbfounded, having just finished Dragonfly in Amber. I'm thinking about what to say in a review and trying to think back to the beginning of the
This nine hundred pages right here gives all of those details that you don't think about, and Gabaldon shoves them in your face until you can see nothing but.And I can't help but feel such a sadness for the real men and women that this story shadows.
It's such and intense feeling, to put the book down and research it on my own and realize that so much of this is true...minus the time travel, of course :D But it's hard to not dwell on the realities that are brought to light and the tragedies that played out, things that I'd never have thought of.
The way this book is read really adds a lot to the overall experience of the story.
I would also say that I recommend the audiobook version of this series because it is a absolutely wonderful way to experience this story.
I couldn't wait to continue my journey with Jamie and Claire and have already started the audiobook for Voyager, which is book #3 in the series.
I am really looking forward to all the time I plan to spend with Jamie this year as I make my way through this series.
I realize this has to do with 1) The jarring beginning that alerts us to our favorite couple being separated from one another; and 2) Jamie and Claire leave the Scottish highlands for flashy Paris in an effort to stop the Jacobite uprising ; a place they argue rugged ScotsmanJamie Fraser doesn't really fit.
It is also the book in which I admitted that I was already not a huge fan of Roger/Brianna as a couple.
He straightened and inclined his head in turn to Mary and Mrs. Munro.
5 Out of 5 StarsThis book stole my heart, I want to establish once more that Diana Gabaldon is an amazing writer.
Her plottwists are amazing and they keep surprising me.
The beginning was quite weird, since it starts of at a very weird point.
So I had to check if I was really reading the second book.
She kept me in the dark for almost 600 pages, and I just wanted to keep reading it.
I'm really interested in where the series is going to go and I'm so glad that I started this series!
God help me. I must hate myself.******Just got to the part with the horse breeding. Holy crap it *is* Clan of the Cavebear (or rather, Valley of Horses) only with Scotsmen not cavemen.****Also, rather than spankings, there are repeated requests from Jamie to Claire that she kill him. Not sure if this is any better.****Okay. Done. On to the next one. Bizarrely addictive. Now with 1/3 less spankings!
"I woke up three times in the dark predawn. First in sorrow, then in joy, and at the last, in solitude."Finally have gathered my courage to start this. Here we go. =D
