https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2687519-eve-s-hollywood
”It takes a certain kind of innocence to like L.A.” The Iconic photograph of Eve Babitz playing chess with Marcel Duchamp taken by Julian Wasser at the Pasadena Art Museum.I have always had Eve Babitz categorized in my mind as one of the “IT” girls of the 1960s/1970s. As I was doing some research on her before reading this book, I suddenly realized that I did know her without knowing her. (I actually heard an audible click in my head as the tumblers fell into place.) The iconic photograph taken
I knew it was Duchamp (76) in the picture, but it never clicked with me until I decided to read this book that the attractive young girl (20) sitting across from him was Eve Babitz.
She also hoped that by participating in the photograph that she would be making her married boyfriend, Walter Hopps (31), who was the director of the Pasadena Art Museum jealous.√ Magnificent√ Immortalized√Boyfriend jealousBabitz’s parents were beautiful, talented, creative people, and like many people with symmetrical features and a desire to express themselves, they washed up on the shores of Hollywood.
In Nathanael West's celebrated novel of Hollywood, The Day of the Locust, Eve Babitz sees nothing but an unfair diatribe against her beloved hometown of Los Angeles.
Eve's Hollywood is a part-memoir and part-novel of Babitz's early life and her attempt at a vindication for her beloved childhood home of Hollywood.Nobody can write an opening line like Eve Babitz.
Reading this book is like hopping along the stepping stones of Babitz' memories and not stopping until you reach dry land.
Much like listening to Stravinsky actually.This book's raison d'être is to show the world that Hollywood is not a wasteland.
(Also sadly, in 1997, Babitz was injured when she was smoking and ash fell onto her skirt, catching fire and causing third-degree burns over half her body; since then, she's become a semi-recluse.) Fortunately, 2015 is a decent year for getting into her work, since you can get "Eve's Hollywood" as well as her 1982 novel "L.A. Woman," which Simon and Schuster reissued in October as well.If you do get a hold of them, in addition to taking the so-called market into your own hands, you'll have the pleasure of hearing her tales of bohemian Southern California in the 1960s and '70s among artists, rock stars, movie producers, starlets, jetsetters and millionaires.As voluptuous and chaotic as their milieus often are, these books are not without discernment and critique.
(I know 50-year-olds who still don’t get this concept.) “The Sheik” is wonderful for its descriptions of the extraordinarily beautiful but dumb girls at Hollywood High who wielded enough power over students and teachers alike to throw things into chaos on a regular basis.
the sea was one long wave to be ridden in, our skins were dark, and time even stopped now and then and let things shimmer since time, too, is affected by beauty and will stop sometimes for a moment.” I love the rhythms of the last paragraph, a great example of Eve’s style that I enjoy so much.
I could read stuff like this all day! Little snippets of a fabulous life lived in 70s LA. She brings the whole time period alive writing about Jim Morrison, books, taquitos, weed, the Watts towers and lots of fabulous arty people. I'm buying everything she's ever written.
This is a book about Hollywood, among other things, but it is not just Hollywood, it is "Eve's Hollywood." The author, Eve Babitz, is a local legend in my version of Los Angeles.
She is known in the world of the artists who live and work here, as well as a friend to the musicians who transformed this city into a world that is totally recognizable, but still a subjective landscape.
On the other hand, and most important, this is an excellent book on Los Angeles culture - and although, I'm about 12 years younger than her, I can clearly remember the same sites, food, and culture as her.
She's a good prose stylist, but it's a vapid enterprise.
Babitz, who describes herself as a "tall, clean California Bardot with messy hair..." is consistently vapid and narcissistic-apparently interested in things only as they relate to her and her appetites for celebrity, sex (mostly with much older men), booze, and drugs.
Seriously, though, why revive and revisit the work of someone so grossly narcissistic and needlessly privileged right now?
Does Babitz' other work hold deeper insights or at least better prose?
The pieces are arranged in chronological order, more or less, beginning with Babitz's 1940s childhood and concluding in the early 1970s, when Eve's Hollywood appeared around the time Babitz turned thirty; but occasionally there's a piece that doesn't fit any particular timeline, like "Grammar," in which Babitz likens writing perfect sentences to drawing perfect human faces, though "real faces, even beautiful ones," such as the face of Sophia Loren, "are sometimes not 1/8 the size of the human body," as the rules of face-drawing dictate.
Eve was born in L.A. of artistic parents and lived in Hollywood, living life to the fullest -- sleeping with the likes of Jim Morrison of the Doors, artist Ed Rucha, and numerous other males known for beauty and/or brains.
It is said that Duchamp was startled by his opponent and could only say, "Alors!"Being two years older than me, Babitz writes about Southern California about he period from about 1960 to 1972, when Eve's Hollywood was published.

****1/2 - This book is delightfully insouciant and opinionated - the collage-like and deceptively artless- and conversational-seeming memories, observations, musings, and evocations of a smart, half-confident/half-neurotic, dyed-in-the-wool L.A. girl who seems to transmute her immersion(s) in her milieu(x) directly from her mind's roving eye onto the page.

Well now I must read everything Babitz has written. What fun; what a proto-type for women's writing today (i.e., bloggers). What a woman's voice that took decades to be re-published probably because her point of view was so distinctly female as to be passed over.
Old unreleased Lana Del Rey songs
Enchantingly humorous and engaging. A masterwork.
Love is about half a sham, even in the best cases, a conscious and deliberate effort to keep the wool tight over the top of your face, but what’s the alternative, really?
I did not love New York when I first moved there – that was why I wrote City Dreaming, in fact, as a deliberate effort to intoxicate myself on the metropolis and my brief time in it.
But even if you don’t need to convince yourself you made a good decision in moving cross country to sell your soul to the Hollywood machine you would still (assuming you aren’t a fool) marvel at Babitz’s sly wit and lacerating, gleeful observations about so diverse a slate of topics as LSD and Taquitos.
I was really surprised I didn’t enjoy this book. There were some chapters I enjoyed more than others but mostly it all sounded the same. “This one time at Chateau Marmot..” but she made an effort to sound a little street by mentioning “driving down to Watts..” at times. No doubt she had a fascinating life but for me it didn’t unfold in a compelling way. I still have a nonfiction book by her I plan to read. Maybe it will suit me better.
New Yorker profile, okay let's go
The fact this book ends at Benihana is just so fucking perfect.
Journalist, photographer, album cover designer and party girl – these are just some of the roles Eve Babitz adopted during her early years in Los Angeles.
Taken in its entirety, it’s quite a ride.First published in 1972 when Babitz was 29, Eve’s Hollywood consists of 45 vignettes and a scrapbook of photos.
In some ways, the following quote sets the tone for the book – it’s taken from the second snapshot, a piece entitled Hollywood and Vine.When I was 14, I began writing a book, my memoirs, entitled I Wouldn’t Raise My Kid in Hollywood.
After all, only those who are the most comfortable in their own shoes have the luxury of regarding their own culture as something of a 'wasteland', and surely, despite Babitz's insight, this holds true by-and-large.Which is why we have something so unique in Babitz and her 'Eve's Hollywood', an Angeleno who is actually able to place herself at a distance enough to write about her own condition, compellingly and with humor.
Yes, Babitz has a true love for her culture and obviously thrives within it as a writer.
Read the blurb on the back...intriguing, huh?!Now, I want you to lower your expectations.
Okay, now lower them some more.
Okay, that should be about right.Eve Babitz is a good writer and Los Angeles is her palette to draw inspiration from.
Right?Unfortunately, even a good writer can't turn these endless-seeming series of anecdotes into anything that exciting.
Very little Hollywood glamour.
I mean, it is called Eve's Hollywood.
Turns out, her Hollywood isn't really that exciting.
(4.5 stars) Meandering, completely beside-the-point, at times self-indulgent, and altogether wonderful, Eve's Hollywood is a native's view of a certain Los Angeles/Hollywood in the 1960s/'70s.
Eve's Hollywood is in no way essential; it's a vessel for the singular voice of Eve Babitz.
I'd accompany Eve Babitz anywhere and be happy to hear her hold court on about any subject; her essay on the taquito is a glorious celebration of the everyday things that make life wonderful and the elemental pleasures of being alive.
I read it, then immediately re-read it.Eve's Hollywood is a delight.
I read quite a bit of Eve Babitz during the early 1990's because my future Grandmother-in-law was best friends with Eve's mother--Mae. "Evie" used to sneak the Grateful Dead into the house according to her mom and she did the collage artwork for the albums by Buffalo Springfield--Retrospective & Buffalo Springfield Again. I remember being sad when I discovered there was no more of her to read but it is most definitely a work of a place and time. It was right on the cusp when I read it and I think she may be having a second resurgence.
I started reading this book about a Hollywood scenester-artist like two years ago. It's been my in-the-dark book, the one I crack into when my bed partner needs lights-out. At first it was slow-going, but in the past few weeks I eagerly cranked through it. It's voicey, opinionated, name-droppy, colorful and fun. Though I keep forgetting its a novel.
even though there were a few stories that dragged, I really really liked this. can't wait to get my copy of Slow Days, Fast Company at the end of the month
New York Review Classics is known for keeping underground classics in print and is behind the recent republication of Eve Babitz's first two books: Eve's Hollywood and Slow Days, Fast Company:The World, The Flesh and L.A. I thought these books would be good preparation/background for an upcoming trip to Southern California.
Much of this is about her formative years at Hollywood High, an abortive stint in New York, her impressions and aspirations about life in California in the 60s and 70s.
Three, those first two facts constitute a tragedy of expense in ways that can't be experienced unless you've had cocaine.Here's her defense of L.A.: It takes a certain kind of innocence to like L.A., anyway.
It's like having Eve Babitz sitting across from you orating about tid-bits of her life as a Los Angeles "It" girl of the 1960's and 1970's instead of being eloquent prose that took a great deal of time to construct.
There were parts of this book that came off as pretty snobby and self-absorbed, but I would also like to add that Babitz possesses a rather deprecating sense of humor, so she doesn't take herself or anybody too seriously.
To put succinctly: It's a very enjoyable memoir, as well as being an interesting book that examines into old Hollywood and the people who became entrenched by its diverse landscape.
These pieces of writing, comprised of longer pieces and shorter pieces, some only a paragraph long, some memoir-ish, others streams of consciousness, or essayistic, are far from our expected notion of short stories.
Few people experience the wild life she lived, and of those who did, few would have the talent to write about it with a keen eye, with directness, and irony, and a laugh.
The pieces are primarily set in Los Angeles, and that city, back then, in Babitz's eyes, is a candy-colored carnival with a lowering darkness.
She's astute and funny and a mad embracer of life, and these pieces range from her childhood through adulthood.
