https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24818.The_Days_Are_Just_Packed
"I just called to let you know it’s a perfect day outside."“The Days Are Just Packed” simply confirms for me something I already knew.
I appreciate him more and more every time I return to Calvin and Hobbes, because they hold up so well.This collection has many highlights, among them a story line about a time traveling Calvin.
Calvin invents time travel in order to avoid writing a story for school.
Also awesome is a strip where a piece of clay leads Calvin and Hobbes into a discussion about art v.
This book of wisdom should be in every English teacher's bookshelf. It is full of philosophy, interesting play on words, wit and humour. Nary a year goes by when I don't use it in my lessons. It has been my companion for over ten years now and is quite tattered now. I simply love this compilation.
Reading this as an adult was revelatory. Of what, I can't exactly say. But I was at a friend's home, in a strange city that will soon be my home, and I couldn't sleep. I picked up this book, and realized that it really isn't meant for children. Or, at least, not just for children. I read all of Watterson's books when I was a kid, and I now know how much I missed, and how much I absorbed.
My parents encouraged me to read something of value when I could, so they'd talk me out of sticker books and lesser kid titles like Captain Poopbutt & His Wacky Goof Smile Crew or some shit.
It messes up your brain and you start wanting to only talk about time travel in biology class.But, when I read Calvin & Hobbes, it was sort of this weird hybrid piece of childhood and adulthood.
Calvin and Hobbes, as comic characters, did a number on me, as they were loud and adventurous while, in turn, quietly discussing philosophy.
The shock I felt upon learning Bill Watterson was discontinuing his Calvin and Hobbes series has never left me. I needed those comics. They weren't just funny they were touching and so very clever. Today's comics and graphic novels have not come close to the feelings, emotions and intelligence Watterson was able to convey in a few short panels. Hopefully Watterson will return to us in full force. The world needs him more than ever.
When you're trying to alleviate daily stress allow Calvin and Hobbs to provide pure joy into your life! I laughed out loud on buses, subways, coffee shops, and park benches. I felt wonderful and that's what it's all about. All Hail, Bill Watterson!
So good! Read it. You will be glad you did.
From spaceships and interplanetary hideous monster beasties, to creeping around the backyard the fun is never in short supply.These witty comics about the 6-year old Calvin and his stuffed tiger Hobbes, named after the famous philosophers, will amuse people of all ages.
The perceptiveness and humor of Watterson deserve the highest of cartoon awards, while his artistic creations exude hilarity.
This cartoon is perhaps one of the most piercing yet funny critiques of modern society.This book is excellent and relatively benign humor, good for any occasion when you need a break from the world.
The loveliest cover of all! The back cover is so sweet too!From this volume my favorites are the time travel stills, when three Calvins are present at the same time. And I love the snow sculptures that brightly show Calvin’s genius.
One of the best comic strips ever created. Love these two and all their adventures, and I now sympathize with poor Calvin's parents. :D
Some of them I vaguely remeber reading some of them, and my mother told me that we used to own it (personally I think we borrowed it) and that she doesn't know what happened to it.
I was showing my dad it and he laughed at some of them and when I left it in the car and went to go get something with my mother, he was reading it, he tried to put it back on my seat before I got back, but he was intensely reading a strip.
I took it from him and read the last of it.
This was the 1st C&H book I read. My best friend was home on leave (US NAVY) & left it at my apt. I picked it up and could not put it down. This is a laugh out loud funny book. For a book to make me laugh out loud when I am by myself... that is FUNNY!! If this doesn't make you laugh, then you have NO sense of humor. Some are so funny you will cry. Highly recommend!
How can you go wrong with Calvin and Hobbes? 175 pages of fun and philosophy, told through the eyes and imagination of a six year old and his pet tiger. I don't think you can go wrong starting Calvin and Hobbes with any volume, and this is definitely a good place to start.
The cover says it all, but I will say more, anyway. Calvin and Hobbes explores thought and emotion in a way very few comics ever have. And it's the dream of still being a kid in an adult world. And it's just great.
Calvin and Hobbes books are great fun and really witty humor! A childhood staple comic book for me, but even now I go back and read them and understand the humor on a different level (now that I know the meanings of some of the words!). Great books.
My review for all Calvin and Hobbes books is this:When you need to relax and laugh, this is a great place to go. Watterson is insightful, hilarious, and very, very funny. Highly recommended. I grew up on C&H, and I'm very glad I did.
An allusion to summer. There are other days, of course, where various ploys do not get him out of homework, the valiant attempt to get the story he is meant to write by time traveling, and a good number of gag-a-day comics.
Ah, Calvin and Hobbes. Is this Bill Watterson's idea of childhood? His actual recollections?I think Calvin would be happier if he were homeschooled, but I don't think his poor mother could handle it. What are we to do with kids who would rather be raised by wolves, or in this case, tigers?
A cartoon book of course. What can I say? I love me some Calvin and Hobbes.
I loved it!! the irony and humour regarding today's manipulative function of our consumer society and ethics are presice and indisputable ^__^
Hurray for laughter! Our family really loves Calvin and Hobbes. Some cartoons are just too true to real life; somehow that makes them hilarious.
I absolutely love Calvin and Hobbes. This is one of the best comic strips ever written. Calvin and Hobbes will make you laugh every time.
I love the Calvin and Hobbes books! they're so funny. Whenever I read them, I laugh out loud. I recommend this for people who like to laugh.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13136362
I always learn something new from Calvin, Hobbes, Suzy, and the parents. Always good for a laugh too!
The stories of Calvin and Hobbes make me laugh so hard that I cry. May favorite cartoon ever! Wonderful!!
Quite funny.
pure, unadulterated joy!

We get a lot of requests for Calvin and Hobbes at our Children's Desk, and just recently added the comic strips to our children's collection so we can stop sending these kids on a journey to the Adult Department 741s.
I also wouldn't hesitate to recommend this to any young kid who likes humor, because as a little goody two shoes myself, I was always able to enjoy being vicariously bad through Calvin.Some challenging of parental and school authority.
