https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184514.The_Scandal_of_Father_Brown
The last compilation of Father Brown stories.
As I said before countless number of times Father Brown is by definition of his job is humanist and rarely bothers with helping catching the criminal (in fact in one of the stories here he just reveal the way the villain vanished into seemingly thin air, but the identity of the guy was left unknown).
The character of the Father Brown makes it for somewhat slow read as the action scenes during the investigation are non-existent.
So dear Father Brown, if you ever do your church duties, that'd be great:
Αν έχετε μια φίλη που ξεροσταλιάζει πάνω απ’ τα περιοδικά του ενός ευρώ με τα κουτσομπολιά των διασήμων και φαντάζεται μια άλλη ζωή, συμπάσχει με τα παθήματα τους, θυμώνει, στενοχωριέται κι εσάς αυτό σας αγχώνει, σας νευριάζει που αναλώνεται σ’ αυτούς τους άσκοπους αγώνες, αξίζει να της δώσετε να διαβάσει αυτή την ιστορία.
In Holmes there is a sense of peril and danger; there are big dramatic moments; while in Brown there is an understated, almost academic style.
Yes there are some flashes of dry humour, but in a mystery tale a sense of suspense is usually required.And that’s why the Father Brown stories – of which this is the last volume – will never hold the place in my heart that the Sherlock Holmes tales do.
There are a few startling moments (for instance an a victim found bloody and hanging in a tree) but their understated style make them a plod rather than race.
I love Father Brown's smackdown to a racist:"Well, there was a Dago, or possibly a Wop, called Julius Caesar. He was afterwards killed in a stabbing match; you know these Dagos always use knives. And there was another one called Augustine, who brought Christianity to our little island; and really, I don't think we should have had much civilisation without those two."
I hate to rate Chesterton with only 3 stars, but this wasn't my favorite. Lord Peter is funnier. And some of these stories required a great leap of faith to solve. Just ok.
Similar to Sherlock Holmes books; that's why I liked it. Father Brown is a great character!
“There’d be a lot less scandal,” says Father Brown, “if people idealize sin and pose as sinners.”Oh, the stories?
You’ll be curious to find out what was in the book.Finally, there is “The Insoluble Problem.” Chesterton’s final collection of Father Brown stories ends on a fitting note.
Although he penned a couple more stories starring his famous priest-detective, it seems there is something especially artistic about “The Insoluble Problem” being the end-piece of all the tales.
Yes, we want the solution, but we never want a good story to end.https://www.chesterton.org/lecture-69/
In the titular story, the scandal appears to be that Father Brown is helping a woman to cheat on her husband, when really he is helping to restore her to her husband from the man she is seeing.The final story here is ‘The Vampire of the Village’.
There is little development in the Father Brown stories over time except that they become more oriented on the bizarre crimes and less on the moral messages, but this is not always a bad thing.
This book turned up my favorite G.K. Chesterton quotation in the whole Father Brown series: "People who lose all their charity generally lose all their logic." That's a keeper.
Other than that, Chesterton is just not my favorite mystery writer.
He has a beautiful way of turning a phrase, but I don't think he's at all good at constructing a story.
Many of his characters are predictable or repetitive (I learned early to look for the character with odd facial hair, because that was usually covering an alternate character).
For historic mystery writing, I still will go with Conan Doyle, who I have been reading and re-reading since I was in the sixth grade.
I have now finished the series, but I know that I wouldn't have read all of the books if I hadn't watched the TV series. The stories become too much alike, even though the solutions are different. I begin the stories expecting to figure out the character who is not what he appears to be early on, even though I may not solve the mystery. I will go back to watch previous shows to see whether I see any plot connections.
What annoyed me as the Father Brown stories progressed was the increasing moralising as well as the ever-present strange and often harsh, prejudiced remark at the beginning of the story, which would invariably prove true in the solution of the mystery. Thankfully towards the end of this book these diminished, which made me end the stories on a more positive note.
I really liked it! Also, conveniently for where I was in my reading life, the short and self-contained chapters were so much better than a longer, more complex plot would have been.
Same vibe as Miss Marple
ალბათ ბრიტანელი რომ ვყოფილიყავი, უფრო მომეწონებოდა.
Good collection.
Gilbert Keith Chesterton –uno de los escritores británicos más afamados y esclarecidos del pasado siglo, que incursionó en el ensayo, la narración, la biografía, la poesía, el periodismo y el relato de viajes– creó uno de los personajes más memorables del género detectivesco, del cual escribió más de cincuenta relatos, recopilados en cinco volúmenes; de ellos, leí recientemente “El escándalo del Padre Brown”, una breve pero sustanciosa alhaja.La genialidad del detective-sacerdote (más bien, párroco que resuelve crímenes) radica en que su proceso de razonamiento no surge de un análisis deductivo, basado en detalles científicos –como sería la contrapartida de Brown, Sherlock Holmes, personaje que Chesterton leía e incluso elogiaba–, sino en “verdades filosóficas y espirituales”; de ahí que se considere que es el personaje más cercano a Chesterton, un hombre “culto”, “familiarizado con el pensamiento contemporáneo y secular”, que se acercó al catolicismo y, hacia el final de sus días, lo amparó a ultranza.
K. Chesterton fan, I am sad that I have now finished all of Chesterton's Father Brown stories.
In this last collection of Father Brown episodes, Chesterton continues to have his protagonist solve crimes by observation and use of a knowledge of human nature, albeit sometimes Chesterton's views intrude on the good Father's conclusions.
Chesterton was said to be a staunch anti-communist, a racist and a God fearing anti-Catholic Christian, and sometimes it shows in his stories.
Thankfully, the Father Brown series is one of his less prejudiced works.
Father Brown should be seen as a rival to Sherlock Holmes but probably never will, due to Chesterton's proselytizing.
What has Father Brown gotten himself into, now?In the first story from which the book takes its name, Father Brown is staying in a hotel where a love triangle is reaching its culmination and Father Brown is in the very middle of it!The other stories are just as clever in this last of the Father Brown books.
The sharp-witted short-sighted dumpy little priest from England who relies on human nature and his experiences and friendship with a tall, broad and bold prince of thieves from France named Flambeau aren't together for all the stories, but it seems Father Brown has capable friends all over.
I've mentioned the racism in the stories.
The whyfore is decidedly second to the puzzle presented.Still, I am glad I read these stories.
Nine short stories are collected in this volume, in which the unassuming, placid Father Brown solves puzzles, most often murder mysteries.
These are not mysteries that the reader is given a full opportunity to solve.
The information Brown uses to solve the crimes is withheld, to be revealed only in his solutions, or is remarked on by him at that very moment, which spoils the reader's chance of weighing the facts.
I prefer mysteries that test the reader as well as the protagonist.
Personally I love the way Chesterton writes.One thing I noticed is how perfect Father Brown is.
It seems that all the great detectives out there have some obvious flaw; Sherlock Holmes was a drug addict, smoker, and a rather rude, unfriendly, very arrogant person.
But Father Brown is humble, courteous to a fault, and complete with all the moral decencies of every good Christian priest.
Plus he's a great detective with a keen eye and a poignant view of reality.
This did not at all detract from the book, nor from the charming character of Father Brown...
"The Scandal of Father Brown", by G.K. Chesterton, is a series of 9 stories from the 1930's.
(The book was published in 1935.) As I mentioned in my reviews of previous Father Brown collections, I think their idea of "short" stories back then was a little different from mine today, since this group seemed to average about 30 screen pages each.
But generally, I again enjoyed this look back in early 20th-century mystery fiction, even though the prose could be a bit turgid at times, and even though many of the stories reflect the racist tendencies of the era.
3 stars.
Chesterton writes in a fashion we might call formalist. His hero is always cool and calm. He solves crimes with erudition and observation. His nemeses are psychics, lawyers, men of letters. The charm in these tales is in their respect for the classic mystery tradition. The language seems almost baroque to the modern reader.But Father Brown never disappoints. With care and calculation, he always gets his man. Cloudy day at the beach. A perfect escape to another era.
A fun little read. Though I noticed a long time ago that a lot of these mystery writers have the tendancy to cheat. Usually by including things in the solution that you had no idea about because they were never mentioned. A few I figured outright. Father Brown is a pretty decent character. He seems to be able to figure things out a tad too easily without actually having to do anything to come to his conclusions. And he never seems to actually work.
I love detective stories, particularly when the story's detective is full of clever remarks and intriguing paradoxes. After reading books like Orthodoxy and Heretics, Father Brown sounded a whole lot like Chesterton, very smart and very likable. Recommended for Sherlock Holmes fans...although I'll bet a lot of you smart ones will figure out the endings. But the stories are still fun to read.
El padre Brown no es para todos los gustos, pero vale la pena darle una oportunidad. Son historias cortas de intriga muy distintas a las de Conan Doyle o Agatha Christie, apenas hay acción, todo es muy intelectual, y el estilo de Chesterton también es peculiar. POr eso mismo vale la pena leerlo: es una clase de literatura policíaca muy diferente a la que estamos acostumbrados a leer. Sorprendente.
I finished all of the Father Brown stories, a bittersweet event. The stories are great, Chesterton has wonderful prose, and his observations concerning people are insightful. I wish there were more to read; will just have to read Chesterton's other fiction. Man Who Was Thursday was a great story.
Chesterton, G.K.The Penguin Complete Father BrownIn compilation only.1) The Scandal of Father Brown2) The Quick One3) The Blast of the Book4) The Green Man5) The Pursuit of Mr. Blue6) The Crime of the Communist7) The Point of a Pin8) The Insoluble Problem9) The Vampire of the Village
This book was enjoyable. A highly poetic book of detective stories. The world of Father Brown is surreal, to say the least. I enjoyed many of his thoughts, and the solution to the eponymous first story.
I was pleasantly surprised by the King of the Paradox's take on the detective novel -- no chain of deductive reasoning for Father Brown, just a trap that springs shut in the opening paragraphs... and pages of delightful reveal for the reader.
I really liked these short mysteries they were a lot like sherlock holmes books.
