https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25.I_m_a_Stranger_Here_Myself
Who says you can't go home?Bryson grew up in America, married his English wife and moved to England with her. Now, after 20 years across the pond, he moves back. And that's when things got weird. Coming back to your native land after an absence of many years is a surprisingly unsettling business, a little like waking up from a long coma. Time, you discover, has wrought changes that leave you feeling mildly foolish and out of touch.  I suppose I feel a milder version of this whenever I visit my p
Who says you can't go home?Bryson grew up in America, married his English wife and moved to England with her.
Now, after 20 years across the pond, he moves back.
Time, you discover, has wrought changes that leave you feeling mildly foolish and out of touch.
His book certainly brings to light several "normal" things that Americans don't quite realize how out-of-the-ordinary they truly are: 
However, the spark that so charmed me at the beginning fizzled out - it just got a bit samey-samey.Audiobook CommentsGreat book (if I judged solely on the power of the voice (William Roberts)).
The short columns are fun, but they're not as cohesive as his travelogues or history books.Is this one of those times when you would recommend listening to the audiobook instead of reading the print?
Mrs. Bryson is a rare and delightful creature and goodness knows my life needs structure and supervision, but when she gets out a pad and pen and writes the words 'Things to Do' (vigorously underscored several times) you know it's going to be a long time till Monday." [On why his mother was not a great cook] To be perfectly fair to her, my mother had several strikes against her in the kitchen department.
1000 BOOKS READ!!!
Some of the books I've added to my GR read list are not even books.
On the other hand, I know I've forgotten some of the books I read as a kid, so maybe it evens out in the end, and GR's count is probably as accurate as it's going to get.
I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America after Twenty Years Away is a very long title.
The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid is a delightful recounting of his childhood in the Midwest.
So when perusing the library overdrive for audiobooks, I spotted this book and I had to download it even though I read it 10-15 years ago.
My love for him, better said for his wit, humour, intelligence, sarcasm, curiosity, observation skills and snark, has reached its highest level and after all these years it's still intact.This book is a collection of weekly columns penned by Bryson between 1996-98.
Things that have changed: desktop computers seem to have put the serial numbers in more accessible places :-), oh, and who remembers the last time they spoke to a real person in a company about installing/setting up anything you bought from them?While listening to this, I couldn't help wonder "what would Bryson make of today's this and that".
I'm not saying that this book isn't good, I'm just saying that this book wasn't for me.Second thing I will say is that I can't believe that I finally finished it.
I don't think I've ever needed this much time to finish one book (and the book wasn't even that big).I'm a Stranger Here Myself (or as it was released in England: Notes from a Big Country) is a collection of columns.
It was fun reading it at the beginning, but after few columns it just got annoying.But one thing I liked about this book (and the reason I didn't give it one star) was the humor.
As an expat about to return to the US, this book simply wasn't Weird enough for me.
Obsessions with skinny white girls named Jessica; the unbelievable noise, especially from radio and TV; un-ending ads for stuff on sale (which exist in other places, but when it's in another language, I just tune it out); the fact that no one walks anywhere; the enormous bodies(quitting smoking maybe wasn't such a great idea, folks...); the amount of non-food items for sale in a grocery store; the general ignorance and out-right disinterest in news from other places; the list goes on.
Bill BrysonBill Bryson, born in Iowa, lived in England for twenty years before returning to the U.S. with his family.
This book is a compilation of humorous articles about America that Bryson wrote for a British publication.
I wanted to tell Bryson, "if you don't like it here, go back to England" (which he actually did in 2003).The book might be worth checking out of the library but it's not worth buying.
The whole experience warms my heart.I’m a Stranger Here Myself originated as a newspaper column for a British magazine, written about the trials of moving back to the United States after living his whole adult life in England.
If you like Bryson, this will be delightful; and if not, not.As far as the ostensible subject goes—and I say ostensible because Bryson often strays from it—I cannot say Bryson quite captures the experience of seeing American culture from a distance.
But the book is not meant to be a serious work of cultural criticism, so I suppose it’s unfair to fault a lighthearted collection of newspaper columns for being trivial.
I normally love Bill Bryson's books. Unfortunately, I could swear this one was written by Andy Rooney.
This is the first Bill Bryson book I have read, which, I am told, was a mistake.
I know several people who consider Bryson one of their favorite authors and they all seem to agree that this book is not a good "ambassador" for the rest of his work.
This book is a collection of newspaper articles that document his move from England to the United States.
I was originally under the impression that Bryson was British himself, until I discovered that he was born in Des Moines and moved to England at 24.
He has spent the same amount of time in both countries, but it seems like he prefers to consider himself British.
There’s nothing very original in it, but some readers no doubt enjoy the empathy of saying “Oh, I’ve always thought that too”.It’s a collection of short articles written for a weekly British news magazine about adapting to life in the US, after 20 years living in Britain – comparing the two countries and comparing the US of his youth with the version he now finds himself in.
Bill Bryson grew up in Iowa, then spent twenty years in England.
I'm a Stranger Here is selections from his newspaper column which chronicles his experiences.
Others, particularly anything is which he tries to mock the writing style on instructional booklets, electronics, the government (I'm all for mocking the government, but he just doesn't do it well), are overreaching and dull.
He also has the annoying habit of showing off a keen sense of understanding, both of general topics and the English language, and then goes on long rambling paragraphs about how he doesn't understand anything.
It pains me to say this because I just read, and LOVED, A Short History of Nearly Everything by the same author, but I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America after Twenty Years Away was shockingly dull.
I wasn't a fan of the audiobook narrator, who comically overacted, and the content was so dated that I could barely relate to it anymore.
If you like lots (and I mean LOTS) of complaining about topics such as telemarketers, having to use ID to get on an airplane, having to actually put an address on a letter to get it delivered, and people being friendly, then this book is for you.
Too much whinging for me.
January 1, 1996A very funny perspective. It must be hard to be both a native and an outsider. Fortunately, Bryson is funny as hell, so the difficulty of it all is related in a way, that might make you laugh out loud, if you're a laughing out loud sort of person.Library copy
But I do know that I have LOVED every Bill Bryson book that I have ever even seen, let alone read.
I think Bill Bryson is very cool.
I'd like him to be my neighbor.
Like "I have this neighbor who stands in her garden and chats with her plants.
But since I really like him, I like to think that if he was my neighbor he would.Perhaps I got a little off topic here.
I think it is because of the man (I'm at the library) right behind me who is coughing a lot.
There's a lot of phlegm.
Usually I get about halfway or even (on a good day) three-quarters of the way through his books and I start to find him annoying or repetitive.
This, I had less issue with...as it's a collection of his newspaper columns, so they're short vignettes, and difficult to get tired halfway through.
I got fairly annoyed at his cutesy way of tidying up each column with a summation sentance, but I found that if I just didn't read the last paragraphs of each chapter, I did ok.All in all, not my favorite Bryson, but certainly not a bad read under the right circumstances.
This is the first Bill Bryson book I have read and I found it laugh out loud funny.
My husband was given it as a christmas gift and when he started reading it kept reading bits out to me because he thought they were so funny.
We gave up on that approach and started reading it together and both loved it.
This has inspired me to check out some of his others books which if the reviews on here are to go by should be even better than this.
I rated this a little lower than other books by Bryson because it shows the constraints of being a collection of newspaper columns, written to a length limit and a deadline.
The column about re-learning an adult vernacular (spackle?
Polyfiller?) was good for a laugh - at the time, I was struggling with the same thing over infants' paraphernalia (diaper?
and hadn't updated accordingly.The columns about the post office and the skunk were also good for a laugh.However, my favorite was probably the column about his son's departure for university.
What's not to like? It's Bryson... ;)
I'll attempt to keep it reserved.Bryson's column "The Waste Generation," about two-thirds of the way through I'm a Stranger Here Myself, starts off with a statistic that's quite simply wrong ("One of the most arresting statistics I have seen in a good while is that 5 percent of all the energy used in the United States is consumed by computers that have been left on all night." Wrong; a computer and a monitor, left on twenty-four hours a day, together consume approximately a dollar's worth of electricity per month.
To answer the latter question first, in modern computers with the Energy Saver features (which do nothing of the sort) turned off, it takes less power to leave a computer on all night than it does to shut it down and start it up.
“I’m a Stranger Here Myself” is full of hilarious and shamelessly frank observations of American lifestyle in the ‘90s as well as nostalgic reminiscences of America in the ‘70s.THUMBS UP:1) Thoughtful, sidesplittingly hilarious and seemingly effortless.I sincerely don’t remember the last time a BOOK made me laugh out loud so hard, so many times.
Otherwise, the essays become a little bit repetitive and tiresome, and Bryson’s whining, though truly hilarious, finally gets to you.VERDICT: 4 out of 5“I’m a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America after Twenty Years Away” is a collection of thoughtful, hilarious and still quite relevant weekly columns on American lifestyle in the 90s, and it is best read in short spurts over time.
A wonderfully poignant collection of Bryson's published news paper article.
After twenty years in England, where he married and had his children, Bryson returns to America to an interesting version of culture shock.
We follow him over a few years worth of articles as he reeducates himself with the strange ways of Americana.
Everything from a day at the beach to children leaving the nest, Bryson shows us his world, both intimate and familiar.
Some of his writing are silly and happy memories from childhood, or experiences with his own children.
Other occasions show his profound disappointment in the difference between England and America.
I have always wanted to read Bill Bryson's books for a long time and can say that I found this novel extremely funny and saw me chuckling well into the night.
It gave me a better understanding of the culture of Americans and the culture shock that Bryson found on returning to the United States.
The whole time he was poking fun at himself a lot.
It also gave me informative statistics of why Americans only walk 350 yards a day and the importance placed on cars and exercise and a whole lot more.
Well worth a read.
Today I had a doctor's appointment and that is when I remembered I am also reading this book.
It is a series of humorous columns written by the author detailing his experience returning to the US.
It makes for quick reading and is good when I am somewhere busy like a waiting room or airport.Well, it took several doctor's appointments and a hospital stay but I finally finished the book.
The time it took me to read is no reflection on the quality of the book.
Bryson is an outstanding writer.
I can't wait to read another of his many books.
3.5/5
Lovely collection of articles. Funny, witty, charming, reads like a dream. I can hardly wait to begin reading another book by Mr. Bill Bryson.
About a quarter of the way through this, I realized that some things sounded rather familiar.
It was only after searching on Good Reads, that I realized that I read this two years ago.
A good friend had sent me a list of Bryson books to read in order.
'Come over here to make some more money, have you?' he said with disdain and slid back my passport.
In that case, I suppose I'd better sign up for that Mediterranean cooking course now.' If you informed a Briton of the same thing, he would say: 'Bloody typical, isn't it?
Bill Bryson moves back to America after living in England for 20 years, and writes a weekly column for the two first years wherein he described every day things and events in his life.
Later he turned these columns into a book, and called it "I'm a Stranger Here Myself"I would recommend this book to anyone, but especially to those that have (like me) traveled to America and found it amazing and wonderful and strange and awful, all at the same time.
Also, if you possibly can, do try to find the Audio Book read by the author himself.
Tal vez el libro más gracioso que he leído en mi vida. Los gringos no son tan prácticos como se cree, están locos y tan jodidos como nosotros. No lo digo yo, sino un gringo como Bill Bryson.
This audiobook made me laugh out loud. A lot.The people that passed me on the highway this morning must have thought I was nuts. #audiodrivingBryson is hit or miss for me. This was a definite hit. I also will only listen to his audio books if William Roberts narrates. He is perfect. If you haven't listened to A Walk in the Woods yet, pick the William Roberts version.
