https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/393199.Down_and_Out_in_Paris_and_London
Do not read this book if you are unemployed.Do not read this book if you are homeless.Do not read th
As anyone who has read 1984 can attest, Orwell is--among other things--a master of disgust, a writer who can describe a squalid apartment building, an aging painted whore or a drunken old man with just the right details to make the reader's nose twitch with displeasure, his stomach rise into the throat with revulsion.
The people he describes may be disgusting, but they are often resourceful too, and Orwell makes it clear that it is the economic system itself--not the character flaws of particular individuals caught up in the system--which is to blame for so much squalor and suffering.
“It is a feeling of relief, almost of pleasure, at knowing yourself at last genuinely down and out. You have talked so often of going to the dogs - and well, here are the dogs, and you have reached them, and you can stand it. It takes off a lot of anxiety.” In 1927 Eric Arthur Blair A.K.A. George Orwell gives up his job as a policeman in Burma and moves back to his lodgings on Portobello Road in London with the intention of being a writer. Like with many artists, writers, and those that wished t
He picks it up in his fingers and slaps it down, runs his thumb around the dish and licks it to taste the gravy, runs it round and licks again, the steps back and contemplates the piece of meal like an artist judging a picture, then presses it lovingly into place with his fat, pink fingers, every one of which he has licked a hundred times that morning.”But the place of course is kept spic and span, right?”Everywhere in the service quarters dirt festered--a secret vein of dirt, running through the garish hotel like the intestines through a man’s body.”You may reassure yourself that restaurants are much better regulated now than they were in Paris in the 1920s and they are, but chat with a few people who work in the industry and it may not be as easy to reassure yourself.
this book isn't going to cause anyone to have the huge revelation that "poverty is hard!" or anything, because - duh - but it also doesn't piss me off the way morgan spurlock pisses me off, because orwell makes his story come alive and there is so much local color, so many individual life stories in here that this book, despite being horribly depressing, is also full of the resourcefulness of man and the resilience of people that have been left by the wayside.
thank you for writing such a fine book, george orwell...come to my blog!
The second part is a travelogue of life on the road in and around London from the tramp's perspective, with descriptions of the types of hostel accommodation available and some of the characters to be found living on the margins.عنوانها: محرومان پاریس و لندن؛ آس و پاس ها؛ نویسنده: جورج اورول؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و یکم ماه جولای سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: محرومان پاریس و لندن؛ نویسنده: جورج اورول؛ مترجم: اسماعیل کیوانی؛ تهران، تیسفون، 1362؛ در 318 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - قرن 20 معنوان: آس و پاس ها؛ نویسنده: جورج اورول، مترجم: اکبر تبریزی؛ تبریز، انتشارات بهجت؛ چاپ سوم 1385 در 269 ص، شابک: ایکس - 964667190؛ چاپ دیگر: ترهان، بهجت، 1389؛ شابک: 9789642763474؛ مترجم: آوینا ترنم؛ تهران، هنر پارینه، 1394، در 286 ص؛ شابک: 9786005205558؛آس و پاس‌ها در پاریس و لندن روایت نویسنده انگلیسی جورج اورول از زندگی فقرا و بی‌خانمان‌ها در پاریس و لندن است.
اورول این نوع زندگی را، برای نوشتن گزارشی در اواخر سال 1927 میلادی، تجربه کرده بود.
Orwell demonstrates his social conscience and empathy for the poor, which I think, makes his more famous attacks on totalitarianism more credible. This is also an interesting novel to read for a glimpse into Paris and London of that time, between 1900 and 1930. Orwell worked in some restaurants and his view from the kitchen is far less romantic than Hemingway’s perspective from the table.Not really a classic or a masterpiece, but a book that should be read.
This book was disturbing, insightful and also funny (great, great characters, some just plain weird!)The first half of the book depicts the main character's experiences living in poverty in Paris.Some of the descriptions about the living and working conditions are quite gruesome.
Orwell sheds more light on what it must feel like to be poor; the ennui etc.I don't think I'll be able to eat at a Parisian restaurant anytime soon because now I'm a little paranoid about the cooking conditions.The second half of the book finds the protagonist back in London and we learn more about what it means to be a "tramp." Equally as disgusting descriptions as those in the Paris section, especially the part where several tramps had to use the same bucket of dirty water for cleaning themselves up, yuck!Orwell definitely puts a human face on the tramps.
كنت اعتقد أن الكاتب سيتحدث عن رحلة ترفيهية قام بها في باريس ولندن، لكني تفاجئت بالعكس تماماً؛ رحلة لكن من نوع خاص عانى فيها الكاتب من ذل التشرد وتنقل بين عدة وظائف قاسية معظمها في مجال المطاعم والفنادق في فترة من أسوأ فترات ما بعد الحربتجربة مليئة بالألم لكنها صادقة تماماً وتستحق القراءة
That book is Down and Out in Paris and London, written later on in England (he wrote 2 books while in Paris but he destroyed them after one rejection.
There was fighting over women, and the Arab navvies who lived in the cheapest hotels used to conduct mysterious feuds, and fight them out with chairs and occasionally revolvers.
Orwell was not living a glamourous life.
You have thought so much about poverty—it is the thing you have feared all your life, the thing you knew would happen to you sooner or later; and it, is all so utterly and prosaically different.
However, the fact that events do not necessarily follow the narrative, certainly does not invalidate the book, or the points that Orwell makes – sadly still very valid today.The first half of the book sees Orwell in Paris.
Some of the characters in the Paris section of the book work so long that they seem trapped in kitchens and hotels around the city.
In the book, Orwell returns to England after finally being driven to write to a friend to help him find work.
The London section of the book sees Orwell living as a tramp in London.
What I learned from this book (in no particular order):1. There is hardly such a thing as a French waiter in Paris: the waiters are all Italian and German. They just pretend to be French to be able to affect that certain hauteur and charge you exorbitant prices for that mediocre Boeuf Bourgignon.2. Some of them are spies. Waitering is a common profession for a spy to adopt. It is also a popular profession among AWOL ex-soldiers and wannabe snobs.3. Real scullery maids do “curse like a scullion”
No doubt Shakespeare had watched a real-life Elizabethan scullion at work.
A French cook will spit in the soup --- that is, if he is not going to drink it himself.
A steak will not be handled with a fork: the cook will just pick it up in his fingers and slap it down, run his thumb round the dish and lick it to taste the gravy.
The Plongeur is the lowest kitchen worker in a French restaurant who deals with the dirtiest, sweatiest work available.
I've loved everything I've ever read by Orwell, including this book which is very autobiographical "fiction", written in the first person. The temporal setting of the "novel" is sometime in the 1920s I think. This is actually not a bad book to sample Orwell with, of course nowhere near as famous as Animal Farm or 1984, but it reads much like a memoir (a very interesting one) and hence can be experienced as a sample of Orwell's writing style and views on society, without those things being masked by the futurist/fantasy plots of the more famous books.
In Orwell's situation, that means he was only experiencing the details of being poor, not fully feeling the all-but inescapable confinement of being destitute.
Knowing you can't get out of a situation has a deleterious affect on one's outlook and actions.Having said that, Orwell gets as close to the real thing as probably possible in Down and Out in Paris and London.
I want to say that it's obvious what's real and what isn't, but seeing how some people fall hard for fake news these days, I'm hesitant to label anything "obvious".
Sure, he whipped out 1984 and Animal Farm, but it's from his essays and nonfiction that I'm learning Orwellian tricks--and by that I mean, the very best sort of craft points.Yes, I know that his first book, Down and Out in Paris and London (1933) is characterized as a novel--usually with some qualifier like "semi-autobiographical" or "thinly-veiled." But given that Orwell saves several chapters for his personal commentary about, among others, the life of a Paris plongeur, London slang and swearing, tramps, sleeping options for the homeless in London, and the Salvation Army, it seems a stretch to me to use the word "novel." I understand his book to, at most, have about as much inevitable fudging as a memoir.DOPL is about exactly that--Orwell mired in poverty, looking for work or working 17-hour shifts in hellfire hot hotel kitchens, begging, pawning, banding together with others in the same state, starving, and generally fighting to survive.The temptation would be to lay it all out there--"This happened, and then this happened, and then this happened....." Orwell doesn't fall for it.
از اول تا آخر كتاب، انگار در حال پيادهروي بودهاي.. يك پيادهروي مداوم در كوچهپسكوچههاي پاريس و لندن.. نه از آن پيادهرويهايي كه باعث شوند گذرت به بخشهاي خوب و رمانتيك و لذتبخش شهر بيفتد... برعكس.... انگار روزها در محلههاي كثيف و مملو از فقر و فلاكت قدم برداشتهاي... و شبها را همراه و همگام جورج اورول، در غيرقابل تحملترين مسافرخانهها و اقامتگاههاي پاريس و لندن، به صبح رساندهاي..همه اين كتاب، روايت فقر است.. نكته دلنشين و برجسته كتاب اين است كه اولا نه از زبان يك فرد گمنام، بلكه از جانب نويسنده 1984
و شبها را همراه و همگام جورج اورول، در غيرقابل تحمل‌ترين مسافرخانه‌ها و اقامتگاههاي پاريس و لندن، به صبح رسانده‌اي..همه اين كتاب، روايت فقر است..
نكته دلنشين و برجسته كتاب اين است كه اولا نه از زبان يك فرد گمنام، بلكه از جانب نويسنده 1984 و مزرعه حيوانات، روايت مي‌شود..
يكي از بهترين بخشهاي كتاب هم، آنجاست كه اورول از شخصيتهاي فقير و خيابان‌خوابي در داستان اسم مي‌برد كه برخلاف تصور عموم كه آنها را بي‌ارزش و تنبل و بي‌مصرف مي‌دانند، از فكر و هنر و ويژگيهاي شخصيتي جالبي برخوردارند...در ضمن، ترجمه (بهمن دارالشفايي) هم عالي بود.
اما نكته عجيبش اين است كه وقتي مست مي‌كند كاملا صادق است.
بلكه اتفاقا اين بوريس است كه چهارهزار فرانك به او بدهكار است.
His description of the Paris hotel kitchen will make you think twice before stepping into a high-class hotel restaurant ever again!These are some trenchant passages from the book:-When one is overworked, it is a good cure for self-pity to think of the thousands of people in Paris restaurants who work such hours (seventeen-hour day, seven days a week), and will go on doing it, not for a few weeks, but for years.I believe that this instinct to perpetuate useless work is, at bottom, simply fear of the mob.
For what do the majority of educated people know about poverty?Why are beggars despised?
By this test beggars fail, and for this they are despised.
And he has a dream to become a maitre d’hotel one day.So that our protagonists find employment in the hotel and Orwell is starting to work as a plongeur.
I smieszno i straszno as our Russian friends would say.When Orwell arrived in London where he was to look after one disabled man it found out that his new employers have gone abroad and he must manage on his own for one month.
Look around, Orwell seems to tell us, there’s always something you can improve, someone who needs help.
آآه جورج أورويل سيجعلني أفكر مائة مرة قبل تناول الطعام في أي مطعم أو فندق بعد قراءتي لهذا الكتاب ^_^فعلي الرغم من ظروف العصر المختلفةإلا أن الكاتب قدم صورة واقعية - للاسف - عما يحدث في عالم البؤس والفقر والشقاء الذي مر به البطل في رحلته من باريس إلي لندنفالبطل متشرد بين شوارع باريس وأزقة لندن ، وأنت تقرأ معه وتتشرد معه !
فجورج أورويل بارع في أن يأخذك من مقعدك أو من سريرك الدافئ ويضعك مع البطل في ملجأ واحد ، فانت تسافر معه وتجوع معه وتجلس علي الرصيف في البرد معه !
I picked up the book knowing I’d enjoy it — it is Orwell, and I’d be hard-pressed to not love him — but the book gave me more than that.It makes you think.
He’d tell us of having to go to work at 5am to scrub dishes at a restaurant to make money, and then begin attending his lectures at noon straight to midnight.
As I sat and read through the experiences of this remarkable man, I thought of how much I didn’t know, how naive I really was, and how I needed to understand much more than I do.
If he thought he only knew the fringe, that means I know nothing.
In some ways "Nickel and Dimed" has a lot in common with this book, even though one was written about the 1920s and "Nickel and Dimed" is about the working poor here in America.Orwell's character, that was based on his time in Paris and London, worked 17 hours a day in a restaurant and had to deal with the abuse and the lack of sleep.
Some sleep in their cars.What grabbed me also was the fact that some places that fed the poor in London made the homeless listen to a prayer and a sermon before they were served a meal.
Orwell’s novel about the consequences of living in poverty is not fiction.
Living with almost no money, he finds it is imperative to find work.
Working as a Plonguer (in French, “dishwasher”) in the underground caves of the Hotel’s kitchen, he becomes submerged in drudgery.In 1929, Paris was far from a paradise city, as some like to conceive it.
In it, the reader is faced with a disturbing series of first-person accounts of what it was like to be deprived of money in a society that depends upon it.Known for his pertinent essays, George Orwell cannot write novels that feed themselves solely on escapism.
Life Below the Poverty Line8 September 2016 - London There is so much in this book and it is actually really hard to know where to start, however I will start off by saying that it is not strictly an autobiography. Sure, Orwell did land up in a situation in Paris when all of his money had been stolen and had to work as a plounger, which is basically another name for a minimum wage kitchen hand (if the minimum wage actually existed back then), and he did live for a time on the streets of London a
Sure, Orwell did land up in a situation in Paris when all of his money had been stolen and had to work as a plounger, which is basically another name for a minimum wage kitchen hand (if the minimum wage actually existed back then), and he did live for a time on the streets of London as a tramp, but he did so not by necessity but rather because he was looking for something to write about.
Presenting us with very vivid accounts of lives lived under such circumstances – very much raising questions for society to answer.Dependant on which source you read – the events that are described in Orwell’s book either happened to him, he witnessed or were recounted to him as true events - the never ending drudgery of the kitchen ‘Plongeur’ in Paris, the perpetual street walking in search of food and shelter of the London tramp both recounted and portrayed here vividly by Orwell.
ياإلهي أي نوعية من البشر تسطيع أن تكتب عن البؤس بهذه الخفة ؟ رأسي كان يركض في كل الإتجاهات دماغي تحول إلى فرن . حسنًا لم أفكر بهذه الرواية أبدًا , ولم تكن في هاجسي .حينما كتب فيصل الرويس " أعرف واحد:أول رواية نصح زوجته بقرأتها كانت "متشرداً في باريس ولندن" لجورج أورويل . وبعد تسع سنوات مازال يشعر بالندم على ذلك. :) "لم أطق أن أنتظر أكثر لأعرف مالذي يدفع رجلًا بأن يندم تسع سنوات لأنه فقط نصح زوجته برواية ؟لك أن تهديه لصاحبك الذي ضجرت منه لأنه لايكف عن المفاخرة في المطاعم الفاخرة التي يقصدها . ولي
حسنًا لم أفكر بهذه الرواية أبدًا , ولم تكن في هاجسي .حينما كتب فيصل الرويس " أعرف واحد:أول رواية نصح زوجته بقرأتها كانت "متشرداً في باريس ولندن" لجورج أورويل .
‎:) "لم أطق أن أنتظر أكثر لأعرف مالذي يدفع رجلًا بأن يندم تسع سنوات لأنه فقط نصح زوجته برواية ؟لك أن تهديه لصاحبك الذي ضجرت منه لأنه لايكف عن المفاخرة في المطاعم الفاخرة التي يقصدها .
ولي أن أجد مواساتي بالتفكير فيها حينما أكون منهمكة .أنصحك أنا كذلك أن تنصح بها عشيقتك أو صديقتك التي تبعد عنها ولاتسكن معها , لكن لاأعتقد أنها مناسبة لزوجتك .تعبه وهذه الرواية هي المسؤولة .
etc.Aside from the informative and interesting content, the language of the book has the virtue of clarity that Orwell believed in but also some wonderfully picturesque descriptions of both cities in question and their inhabitants, for instance this of a left bank street in Paris:It was a narrow street – a ravine of tall leprous houses, lurching towards one another in queer attitudes, as though they had all been frozen in the act of collapse.I was intrigued with the philosophical discussion Orwell has with another destitute at some point toward the end: Bozo: (…)You don’t need to get like that.
In places this came across hugely Zola-esque in that it reminded me of some of the incredibly moving scenes of poverty as experienced by those lost souls working in mines in the north of France in Zola's classic novel "Germinal" which for me is Zola’s best book.
Orwell went to experience life as a poor person in both Paris and London although I don’t think all the experiences mentioned in this book are completely autobiographical although I do know that he did experience some of the nightmarish scenarios the book describes.
:) Here are some of the interesting points orwell raises:•	The way the tramps would bathe in the mornings at these spikes was unreal.
Yine de meteliksiz kalmanın bana kesinlikle öğrettiği bir iki şeyi gösterebilirim.
Bir daha hiçbir zaman berduşların sarhoş birer ahlâksız olduğunu düşünmeyeceğim, bir peni verdim diye bir dilencinin bana minnet duymasını beklemeyeceğim, işsizler uyuşuksa buna şaşmayacağım, Selamet Ordusu'na para vermeyeceğim, giysilerimi rehine koymayacağım, sokakta birisinin uzattığı el ilanını geri çevirmeyeceğim, şık bir restoranda yediğim yemekten tat almayacağım.
Kitap boyunca George Orwell'ın Paris'te ve Londra'da bulabildiği oldukça kötü koşullu işlerde çalışmasını, bir iki dilim ekmek ve biraz şarap için kıyafetlerini bile rehine verişini, en sonunda da çalışmadan, aldığı borçlarla çeşitli "düşkünler evlerinde" kalışını okuyoruz.
Bu sebeple diğer Orwell kitaplarına oranla biraz daha az tat aldım diyebilirim.

شرحی است بر نحوه زندگی و گذران عمر ولگردها از زبان کسی که این نوع از امرار معاش را کاملا درک نموده است .قسمت هایی از کتاب- فقر آنها را از رعایت اصول طبیعی رفتار آزاد ساخته است ، همان طور که پول انسان را از کار کردن بی نیاز می کند .- خیلی زود متوجه شدم که تردید داشتن و رو راست بودن چه قدر احمقانه است .- هرگز برای گارسون ها تاسف نخورید .
بعضی وقت ها که شما در رستوران نشسته اید و نیم ساعتی به غذا خوردن مشغولید ، در حالی که وقت مقرر رستوران پایان یافته ، گمان می کنید که گارسون خسته که در اطراف شما پرسه می زند متوجه شماست و تحقیرتان می کند یا تاسف می خورد اما در واقع این طور نیست .
The adjective “Orwellian”, of course, refers to the kind of totalitarian state Orwell depicted so brilliantly in 1984.
Maybe there should also be an adjective to refer to the kind of poverty Orwell described equally brilliantly in this, his first published novel.
This is powerful stuff and it's confronting and disturbing to realise that so much of what Orwell describes remains true today for people marginalised by extreme poverty.
These scenes contain negative descriptions of Jewish characters.
But the linking of the characters' negative traits with their Jewishness reflects the anti-semitism rampant in England in the pre-war period from which Orwell was clearly not immune.
