https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/684479.The_Decline_of_the_West_Vol_1
He comes across encyclopedic in his knowledge, and has very strong opinions on lots of topics, but after a while, as he moves through all different areas of knowledge and you (well me, the reader) finally starts to be confronted with works that he (because this is me I'm not very coyly talking about in the third person) knows something about that you (well me again) realize, that's not actually accurate, hmmm I wonder how many more things I'm just nodding along with aren't really that accurate, reductionist, or just twisted so out of shape that only a zealot would mindlessly nod-along in agreement.
A four volume book. It's hard to start reading, but once you do it's hard to put down. I don't agree with all of Spengler's philosophy, but after reading this Four Volume Set, you will never look at history and society the same way. It explains what is wrong with our culture.
Pero es innegable que tal como ocurre con la “Historia de la Decadencia y Caída del Imperio Romano” de Edward Gibbon (curiosamente, ambos libros sobre declives y ocasos históricos), la narrativa, la prosa elegante, la información y toda la sapiencia y erudición contenida en sus páginas (En un mismo capítulo el lector puede encontrarse con alusiones a Heródoto, Sócrates, saltando a Copérnico, Kant, Newton, Wagner y Goethe, pasando por las columnas dóricas y jónicas, Rembrandt y Monet, rematando con Nietzsche y Bernard Shaw); son dignas de los más sabios prohombres de nuestra historia.
A, nekmoli feminiskinje.Ovo je jedna od onih knjiga nakon koje svoj život, odnosno svoje razmišljanje, mogu razdijeliti na razdoblje prije i nakon što pročitah "Propast Zapada".Nakladnička kuća "Demetra" je uz "Eneagram" predvodnica rubne tekstualnosti, tekstualnosti kognitivne kreme, umne elite.
Sama Spenglerova klasifikacija dosta podsjeća na Nietzscheovu, ono što je za Spenglera faustovska kultura to je Nietzscheu aleksandrijska kultura.Spengler sam često navodi Nietzschea.Uvijek mi dođe da se smijem kada čujem libtarde kako govore o tome kako se događa progres u ljudskom društvu, kako se taj progres ogledava u sve većem broju ljudskih prava, kako nas je 1789.
I would be surprised if many did, because one would have to be familiar with an almost wholly new vocabulary for thinking about history to fully understand him.
And so on.- Most challenging for our time, he viewed the health of a culture by it's expression of their 'inner life.' So things like technology innovation, or even expansion, are not signs of health.
So too, the bored civilization (a sign of decay) can only think of economics, and needs to feed itself from the outside.2.
Spengler makes the vital point that cultures must be taken as a whole.
I haven't felt this excited about a book's introduction since reading Tocqueville.Spengler's project, as I understand it, is to figure out a way to study history and predict the future.
For Spengler, classical Greece and Rome are far more foreign and alien than classical India or Egypt.Chapter 2: the Meaning of Numbers!The second chapter jumps right into the differences between Faustian and Apollinian mathematics.
Part of this is Spengler's attempt to write a new sort of history that overturns the standard story about the west (ancient Greece/Rome -> Dark Ages -> Renaissance -> Enlightenment -> Modernity).
Spengler surveys many world cultures, including the Chinese, Egyptian, and Arabian, but the focus is mostly on the two cultures best known to moderns: our own Western Culture, and the Classical Culture of Greece.
For the Western civilization the prime idea is Infinite Space, typified by our Calculus, our Symphonic Music, our Landscape painting, and our Deist God. Spengler also describes the Civilization phase in detail, for this is the phase in which he says the West now is, and I am inclined to agree with his evidence.

I don't really know how much of this book I really believe is true, but man it sure puts some interesting ideas into your head.
Weighty, useful as a blunt instrument to bludgeon liberals with, but nonessential since it confuses culture and breed or race, and misunderstands as esotericism what he would have called gemeinschaft.
Maar het grote verschil met het begrip homologie is dat daarbij van een morfologische gelijktijdigheid sprake is; verschillende historische gegevens hebben eenzelfde betekenis binnen de ontwikkeling van hun cultuur.In tegenstelling tot de reguliere geschiedschrijving was Spengler vooral geïnteresseerd in de gelijktijdigheid van historische gebeurtenissen.
Een volk bepaalde dus niet haar eigen cultuur, zoals Herder nog dacht, maar een cultuur vormde een volk en daarmee alle andere historische producten.De laatste fase van een cultuur werd gevormd door het overrijpe stadium van de civilisatie.
Masterpiece.
One of the best works the West has ever made or will make.
Unmatched in its scope and vision it's a force to read.
Spengler has observed truly how the cultures are birthed and take shape and through this observation everything begins to make sense.
All these weird peculiarities cultures share in specific stages are now elucidated.
The myth of progress becomes objectified and in a sense the future of cultures is predictable.
On top of this Spengler maintains an absurdly high level of skepticism, tearing every notion from cause-and-effect to stasis to 'depth' apart.
Also it reads like an epic poem.Highly recommended.
I certainly disagree with his ideas, and not just with his conclusions, but with much of his evidence. And, unlike other authors whom I've had the pleasure of reading and disagreeing with, he's borderline unreadable (a fact that he would no doubt be proud of - he accuses Schopenhaur of being "too accessible to the mediocre mind.") There are some nuggets, some interesting ideas here and there, but as far as explanatory historical systems go, he's got nothing on Toynbee and I don't even like Toynbee all that much.
Ugh.
Borges said it best.
وتكمن أهمية هذا الكتاب في كونه ينطوي على نظرية هي من بواكير النظريات التي عارضت النموذج الخطي للتاريخ، فدرست التاريخ باعتباره دورات متتابعة لحضارات مختلفة، وهو بهذا يعارض نموذج كانط وهيجل للتاريخ باعتباره مسارا خطيا شاملا نحو غاية واحدة للبشرية.
ولذا فلا جرم أن أغلب أكاديميي وفلاسفة عصر شبنجلر قد نقدوا عمله هذا وعدّوه عمل رجل هاو متطفل على فلسفة التاريخ ، ولا جرم عارضه كارل بوبر وعدّه عبثا وبلا معنى، فبمقتضى نظرية شبنجلر يكون كارل بوبر مدافعا عن مظاهر الشيخوخة والموت للحضارة لا عن مظاهر التقدم والحيوية لها .
Though this site is but a bit of lofty archiving with side of mass opioid stupidity, I find it fair to leave some notes hither and thither pertaining to de profundis.
It had been a decade since I picked up Spengler, and in that time I came to state of knowledge sufficient to read Decline, vol.
1, without having to lose myself in notes, theasauri, &c.
I tuck the thing away and prepare to take the world by storm, for in a pornographic world chivalry is head.
Wie kann man dieses Buch nicht lieben?
No es lo que esperaba. No leeré el segundo tomo.
"drear gnawing tones"
This and volume II sit on my bookshelf and have for a very long time.
I probably will leaf through, maybe after I finish writing this.-------------------So I read the introduction and really enjoyed bits of it, but in the end have decided to set it aside again.
There are lines of deep insight, set beside stuff that sounds like utter nonsense to me.
I will take away the idea of how we view history is largely shaped from our perspective of our time and place in that history.
'Shaped' is probably too mild a world, 'warped' might be a better one.
(Perhaps I'll really cheat and read the conclusion to Volume II.)
No con los mismos argumentos que propone Spengler; pero esta jeremiada por la civilización occidental se siente cierta, próxima.
Para que se adapten a lo inevitable, conservando lo que puedan de cuanto de bueno deje tras de sí el mundo que se extingue.
Para que peleen por aquello en lo que crean, o para que se resignen a lo inevitable; pero no por estupidez o mansedumbre, sino por lucidez.
Hagámoslos supervivientes mestizos, dispuestos a encarar sin complejos el mundo nuevo y mejorarlo; pero no los embauquemos con demagogias baratas y cuentos de Walt Disney."http://www.perezreverte.com/articulo/...
Oswald Spengler cree que cada cultura se fabrica su arte, sus ciencias, sus mitos, y que todo nuestro mundo no es más que un reflejo de nuestra religión y de nuestra forma de concebir el alma.
Aunque las ideas de este libro son poderosas y pueden cambiar la forma en que miras todo lo que te rodea, se hubiera agradecido una mejor capacidad de síntesis por parte de Spengler.
Todo ha quedado expuesto de forma magistral en la introducción, pero al profundizar en el libro las ideas se repiten, los ejemplos vuelven una y otra vez como bumeranes y Spengler a veces ¡hasta se copia a sí mismo!
Pero se trata sin duda de una obra capital.
Сетих се отново за това произведение на Шпенглер, когато Морис Фадел ни даде да пишем за “Краят на демоктратичните ценности” и реших да я прочета по-задълбочено. Знам, че книгата е много популярна и много дискутирана, но лично аз я намирам за доста остаряло четиво. Изкуството не е мъртво и прогресът не доведе до упадък.Книгата се намира трудно на пазара и тук там се явява по някой спекулант, който я продава скъпо. Има по две копия от двата тома в библиотеката на НБУ.
Can't get past the style, which resembles gibberish to me. Maybe I just don't have the background or fortitude to grapple with the esoteric references. In any case, not my cup of tea. Too many books out there that I will enjoy more...
