https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/399136.Imagined_Communities
I don't think we discussed the validity of his claims at all, but rather focused on place they had in world events and history and how these ideas could affect our daily lives.This time, I'm in an international history program, filled with historians.
Anderson's basic thesis is that nations are "imagined communities," created in the New World by the creole bourgeoisie of the British and Spanish colonies by the conjunction of print journalism (which allowed groups of people to imagine themselves as a community, through providing the links that bound regions together), language, cultural imprints (such as "sacred script" cultures) and the forces of capitalism.
شهرتُه تتكلّمُ عنه أكثر منّي ...هذا الكتاب أحد أهمّ الكتب التي شغلت علماء الاجتماع و السياسة في العق
So the big idea here is that nations are limited and sovereign entities, with power over a limited territory, but also that they are 'imagined', or socially constructed through the print media.
It might be easy to dismiss the whole thing as obsolete, with the wonders of technological cosmopolitanism and the communication of new international identities, but also the neo-liberal spread of companies superseding state power.It is easy to lampoon - who would fight and die for a Special Economic Administrative Zone or a Customs Union?
Such new efforts might still be cloaked in the banner and rhetoric of a broader Community and Nation.
From the creation of Romanized script in Vietnam by the French ("Quoc ngu") specifically as a means of cutting Vietnam off from its intellectual history as well as the larger imagined community that took part in Sinic script, Ki Hajar Dewantara's "If I Were a Dutchman" letter, and down to Makario Sakay's heartbreakingly fair and anti-racist Philippine republic constitution (he was shortly thereafter executed by the Americans).During the colonial period education in Western ideas like proto-nationalism was allowed, which gave birth to a fiercely independence-driven intelligentsia.
Anderson has a good point about how language and the collapse of religious absolutism created nationalism but he fails on two points.
Second he fails to elaborate on other things that caused nationalism to rise, such as technology, revolution, ideology, and warfare.
In conclusion this work has merit, but it can be difficult to understand and it is rather limited in scope.
Read it if your are interested in nationalism because it has great observations but this is by no means a definitive and complete work on nationalism.
A hugely influential work, first published in 1983, which delineates the 'processes by which the nation came to be imagined, and, once imagined, modelled, adapted and transformed.' Anderson is an expert on Southeast Asia, and thus manages very successfully to avoid a purely Euro-centric view. Another extremely successful aspect of this work is the structure: each chapter ends with a succinct summary of its main ideas, a boon for those who need to take notes and revise what they've read, or indeed for anyone at all. The author argues his case cogently, emphatically, and with admirable clarity. Exemplary.
While showing how national identities are socially and historically constructed, Anderson at the same time finds the phenomenon too powerful to be simply debunked via ideological critique.
...Anderson has very little to say about Arab nationalism, and as I read I wondered what he would make of the past decade and a half of wars in the Middle East.
While probably its most extreme manifestations are being played out in the Middle East, state failure does also seem to be a more general phenomenon of our times, not least in the advanced capitalist countries.
All this makes me wonder if the nation-state will continue to be the hegemonic political formation of the 21st century.
اللغة المحلية، تراجع الدين، تراجع السلطة، الاستعمار، المصلحة، استخدامها كأداة، هذه الأسباب التي كانت
Boy, am I glad to have finally read this.
Imagined Communities is the force behind much of the scholarship in the social sciences I find most interesting.
Seeing someone’s name so often in brackets (Anderson, 1983) makes you curious, and Anderson does not disappoint.For me, this is history at its most interesting—incisive, global in scope, entertaining, and not overladen with facts.
Staying entirely within the purview and methodology of the discipline of history (unlike, say, Guns, Germs, and Steel), Anderson formulates a theory that explains much of the modern world.
Anderson manages to write plain English, use traditional methods, and reach a fascinating conclusion.
Asserted as a Marxist text, Anderson attempts to revise readings of the development of nationalism in attempt to sort out the possibilities its offers for a Marxist agenda.
However, the most interesting part of Anderson’s argument for me isn’t necessarily his discussion of the print capitalism, which is often read as a chronological catalyst for the development of nationalism (almost like a weird sort of telos).
It seems to me that the arbitrariness of calendrical time, as a kind of cultural logic that develops in tandem with the culture of print capitalism, is exactly what makes it so manipulatable for Anderson, and thus is where he is able to locate the promise of nationalism.
Even though the author mentions that he did not want to introduce any academic lingo, it is still difficult to comprehend at times, and the academic structure is obvious.
It will truly make you think about history in a novel way once you do understand what is being described.
However, the chapter on the Map, Census and Museum was the hardest to comprehend.
Of course, the fact that so many themes in the book were hard to understand only goes to show how different our frame of reference is now that we are products of these 'imagined communities' rather than outsiders looking in.
ربما لأنني تعرفت إلى لعبة سباق السيارات "إسفلت 8"، فشغلني هذا عنه، أو لأن كل فكرة -رغم بساطة عرضها- تحتاج إلى وقت طويل لهضمها واستيعابها.بلغت شهرة الكتاب الآفاق، وصار مقررا جامعيا في العديد من الجامعات حول العالم، لذلك أي حديث حول أهمية الكتاب لن تكون مناسبة.أشير فقط إلى بعض النقاط التي استوقفتني أثناء القراءة:1- الكتاب ليس نظريا بالمرة، أي رغم أنه يتبنى مفهوما جديدا لأساس القومية وانتشارها، إلا أن المؤلف اتجه بأغلب ثقله إلى حقل التاريخ لإبراز نظريته ودعمها بأمثلة تاريخية ووقائع محددة.2- ورغم الاهتمام بالتاريخ، إلا أن الكتاب تجاهل منطقة الشرق الأوسط تقريبا.
One ingredient, if I understand correctly, is the largely unintentional creation of a locally-born set of civil servants, native in birth to the land they live but steeped for a long period in the culture of the occupying colonial power.
(I think that's the message I was supposed to get.)As a result, we have Chileans, Americans, Ghanians, Indonesians, and others living, declaring allegiance and pride, and sometimes dying for arbitrary lines generated largely by accident, long ago.
In this case, I hope that understanding this book somehow allow me (or perhaps a more charming person with better persuasive skills) to convince a nationalist that the narrative of history could be different than he/she has imagined up to now.

اسم الكتاب رائع مرهق رغم صغر عدد صفحاته مقدمة لعزمى بشاره محتاجة 3 فنجاين من القهوة ديكتاب لوحدها ني
His best-known work is Imagined Communities, where he discusses the origins of nationalism and how they were shaped differently in the New World, Old World and Third World.
Anderson traces the origins of nationalism to three important cultural phenomena; religious community (& the language/script of the Truth), dynastic realm and the apprehension of time (most of which deals with death and to certain extent makes an individual question his existence).
Chapter 3: The Origins of National ConsciousnessThis chapter highlight the importance of "print-capitalism" in forming imagined communities.
I very much appreciate Anderson's example of West Papua, that is culturally significantly different from the "Malay/Javanese" side of the nation.
Imagined Communities is the most accessible text on nationalism that I’ve read recently. Anderson’s examination of the origins of the concept of the nation, and the spread of nationalism is logically argued and thoroughly supported. It is interesting to read a perspective which traces this structure of identity not to Europe, but to South America. An engaging and thoughtful read.
الانتشار الواسع للكتاب عالميا وترجمته للكثير من اللغات أمر يدل على أن هذا الموضوع ( القومية ) ما زال
Definitely an 'essential read', but did his style have to be so annoying? "Unjungled," Benedict? "Museumized?" Those aren't words. Not cute, either. Stop with the scare quotes, too, jeez. And would you translate your goddamn lengthy French quotations??? GOD.
إن الكتابة التي تقول عن أفكار مهمة وذكية بلغة مباشرة وسهلة، بلا تقعر أو تذاك أو بهرجة لغوية، وتصيب هذه الأفكار كما يجب، من دون تقصير أو تسطيح، لكفيلة بعدل مزاجي لأيام. كتاب ممتاز.
An indispensable canonical book for student of nationalism.
Книга надзвичайно цікава в першу чергу тим, що розглядає нації та націоналізм з філософської точки зору, як феномени, що, витворившись у людській свідомості, стали нормою сучасного життя (а не як частину ідеології правих/лівих/партій/рухів...) Автор пропонує тезу, що нація - спільнота уявлена, бо жодній людині не вдасться познайомитися з усіма своїми співвітчизниками, але вона впевнена у їх існуванні, вона може уявити цю спільноту.
(Ще цікава концепція про три хвилі націоналізмів - креольський в Америках, філологічний у Європі та колоніальний в Азії та Африці + офіційний імперський, як гібрид старого й нового світоглядів).
For example,it asserts that "Where racism developed outside Europe in the nineteenth century, it was always associated with European domination," [p186] and this opinion has been expressed by other writers (for example, in the autobiography of Malcolm X which I have read and reviewed only recently), but I find his supporting arguments too elusive to really pin them down and make use of them.
I take from this book an appreciation that nationalism is a modern construction, which serves important functions, makes use of tangible objects - language, culture, religion, geography, history - and which appeals very strongly to many people, but remains elusive.
What I found particularly useful were his marxist explanation for how print capital helped create conditions for a nation as an imagined community, his exposition of the fact that nationalism developed in the Americas before Europe, and the wonderful way he shows how colonial administration and education sowed the seeds of rebellion and left the possibility of an imagined community and theory needed to gain independence for colonized spaces.
His work also suggests projects looking at the formation of nation and difficulties in Africa - complicated by horrible divisions of states out of numerous ethnic areas by the colonizers.
As the original text on nationalism as an idea, you would think that this would be a better read.
Indeed, the plethora of translations that the author catalogs in the Afterword written for this expanded edition, you would think it would be best thing on nationalism ever.
And while it does have a few great ideas, it is a barely developed, almost completely nonsensical book.
After the first few chapters, Mr. Anderson can't hit anything.
Aside from some good, but half-baked, ideas, I would suggest finding another book to read if you are interested in the development of nationalism as an idea.
A very impressive work on both a research and theoretical level. The syntheses that Anderson generates manage to cut through hundreds of years of history and thousands of miles of geography to create a cohesive, cogent approach that, fairly uniquely among works of this sort, manages to privilege neither time nor space. Well done.
Argues clearly and poetically that identities are constructed through shared media. Examines how newspapers and other media create a shared identity with people never met.Pros: Excellent writing, clear argument, and historical evidence (almost exclusively) from the Spanish-speaking world.
There are a couple of things necessary to imagine the national community and it became possible only in modern times, with the advance of print-capitalism.
However, modern novels abound in 'meanwhile's: simultaneity made possible by this new conception of time allows for multiple narrative threads involving different characters in separate locations yet part of the same story.
Anderson doesn't like Eurocentrism, so he puts the emphasis on the more exotic places and argues that nationalism is not an European product.
Why did the administrative units of old empires like Spain become nations instead of, say, uniting?
Some notes:- "An imagined political community - and imagined as both inherently limited and sovereign."- Groundwork for nationalism: Truth was no longer tied to an authoritative language, societies were no longer hierarchical in a pre-ordained way, and a greater consciousness of how societies exist over time (backwards and forwards)- The printed word enabled these communities to be imagined on greater scales -- and those imaginations were regulated by identical copies- Creoles were barred from returning to imperial capitals, pushing them towards a nationalist identity- Imperialists struggle to reconcile the universality of empire with the particular national identities.
It prevailed over international communism which tried to present itself as its own solution.The nation has succeeded in some ways: in bringing material wealth to the first world.
But since 1980 inequality has been increasing consistently between nations, polarizing the cultural and wealth differences even more.If neoliberal capitalism (birthdate circa 1980) continues its quest for maximum inequality I think it is basically admitting that it wants to die, that it is such a lonely and isolated system that it would rather die, that it would rather wipe out our species than learn to share.
