https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953994.Venice
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Self-Reflective Frisson: "Venice" by Jan MorrisI wanted to say I have finally just about finished reading Jan Morris' Venice and the one thing that struck me more strongly about it than any other impression, was how much it reminded me of Hemingway's Death in the Afternoon. Of course, Morris is frequently in the business of evocative, poetic prose, something Hemingway would never allow himself, but the everyday prose style is very similar.
It may be strange for me to categorise this book as a biography, but Jan Morris treats the city here as a character in a melancholic story of her history, her streets, her canals and her people. It is a fantastic read and should be in your luggage should you ever visit this one of the world's most incredible magical cities (hint: read Invisible Cities by Italo Calvino too!)
In many ways this book is like the city itself.
The book, like the city, is frozen in time.
And while much of Venice hasn't changed in that time, there is a sense that we are reading two histories - Jan's history of Venice plus her own history.The book is also densely packed - again just like the city.
and then list dozens of different types of lions.The book like the city is also labyrinthine.
This marvellous unique crazy city.Will you like this book?
But there's just that little caveat that this book, like the city, has it's own unique way of doing things.
We then fell in love with La Serenissima and I determined to read Morris's classic treatment of Venice upon our return.
Trieste and The Meaning of Nowhere was written in 2002, one of her later works.
I think she admits this herself in her forward to the 1974 edition, when she notes that - upon revisiting the book to update and revise it - she'd discovered that she'd fallen out of love with Venice, that the "sad magic" was gone for her.
My guess, however, is that she did still love Venice (how can you not?).
What a disappointment - felt a bit guilty clicking on the 'Yes, I've finished' when I very obviously hadn't, but couldn't read any more. The history bits were interesting, but the current stuff was dated and patronising (still want to go to Venice sometime though, and the book group discussion was a lot more interesting than the book itself)
Which arguably doesn't matter, except it leaves me wondering whether the initial impression I had got of the Venice of 1959 as a romantic, but slightly down-at-heel place was misplaced, and it was, actually, even then, rather more of a tourist trap than the initial chapters suggest, or whether instead, it is simply that her accounts of, for example, the problems associated with managing the sheer volume of visitors the city gets were actually written into the book much later.
A calm voice, just like a gondola slipping gently in the venetian lagoon.
It's not the type "go there, see this, do that", but in fact it's like the memoirs of a city as a person.
Venice, which is one of my favorite cities, is like that old precious vases or houses that have been broken, shattered or else but still have this magical beauty that makes any plan for restoration to be very, very careful for not loose its fragile "verdigris".
I wish this writer would have write novels about Venice, too, it could be a paradise.
I think Jan Morris is the greatest travel writer of all. I've not read enough of her, but this one really introduced me to a genre that I now love.
I read this as I am visiting Venice for the first time next month. Some atmospheric passages and fascinating nuggets of information, but far too much detail and too many lists. I skipped through the last third of the book as I was on information overload by then and desperate to finish it so I could read something less dry! Still very excited about my first trip to Venice though ...
A fine combination of interesting information and a sense of humour. Although I had already been in Venice many times and read a lot about it, I learned a lot of additional things and also enjoyed the way the author presented them. Definitely my favourite travel book.

My traveling days are done, but if I had just one more trip in me, it would be to Venice.
The story was interesting, but even more were the sights of the city.
I fell in love with La Serenissima and have read everything I could get my hands on, fiction and non-fiction.
This is one of the best non-fiction titles I have read.
From the history to the story of uninhabited islets, the book covers every aspect of this great city.
Reading this book gives an idea of what it means to live in Venice.Sigh.My blog: The Interstitial Reader​​https://theinterstitialreader.wordpre...
Jan Morris writes beautifully about a beautiful city. Not your typical travel guide but more like meandering through Venice with a good and interesting friend. I've only been to Venice once. Something very sad happened to me there - my brother told me he was dying. I thought I would never want to go back there but this book makes me want to go back and see all that I missed.My only criticism of the book is that Ms. Morris is coy about her personal life there; makes allusions to things left unexplained and it got a bit exasperating.
The original version was published in 1960, and the writing seems of a different time. It is lyrical with some unexpected humor. The chapter setup doesn't necessarily flow, and it took me a good half of the book to get into the writing style--or maybe the second half of the book, and especially the last few chapters, was just more interesting. Regardless, if you have any interest in Venice, this is a pretty fascinating read. It covers history, style, art, architecture, customs, people, religion, etc.
I was rather disappointed considering all the positive reviews. I haven't been to Venice and now have no wish to. I thought the writers style very pretentious and boring - especially the endless lists!!! Maybe if you know Venice you understand what he/she is writing about. I thought it was a travel book but no the author detests those and classes this as ' travel literature'. I recommended this to my book club and now wish I hadn't.
I am interested in reading this book because it is about Venice, which is a city that fascinates me. I also became interested in Venice after reading The Merchant of Venice in my Shakespeare seminar and reading City of Fallen Angels by John Berendt earlier this year. It seems like a magical city and I am interested in learning more about its history. I found this book on my goodreads feed.
Reader beware - this is not a travel book. It's about a Venice largely gone, but you can't help but seek it. Another beautifully written book by Morris. Give yourself permission to lose yourself in this city.
In my usual fashion, when we decided to take a cruise beginning in Venice to celebrate our 20th wedding anniversary, I consumed everything I could about Venice. Eventually I came across this little gem. Jan Morris' writing is excellent - I absolutely absorbed this fantastic 'travelogue'.
Jan Morris loses one star per book for her adulation of empires. This one loses another for lack of originality--an opinion I doubt is shared by many.
The depth of history and detail in this book is uncanny. This is the way they used to write travel books, with years of research and experience.
Reading again -- This book is hard to get into; but if you love history, you will love this book~ It sits on my bistro table at all times...
Well-written, evocative portrait of a vital, lived-in Venice that has probably ceased to exist.
Too many adjectives, too overblown - another book by an author who wishes the world would never change.
Abgesehen davon, daß ich mich frage, was die Sunday Times oder Times denn nun wirklich über dieses Buch ihres eigenen Korrespondenten (!) geschrieben hat/haben, und kaum glauben kann, daß es so wenig eingeschränkt zum allerbesten erklärt wurde, wäre den Werbefachleuten doch hier zur Vorsicht zu raten gewesen.
Zum einen, weil es eine riskante Sache ist, mit einem Superlativ zu argumentieren: Es wird sich doch in der fast 1.000jährigen Venedigliteratur der großen weiten Welt wenigstens ein einziges Buch finden lassen, das man begründet für besser halten kann.
126), den "Ebenen des amerikanischen Westens..., die ersten fernen Ankündigungen eines Cañons" (Ebd.), der Seine und dem New Jersey Turnpike (S.
She became great as a market city, poised between East and West, between Crusader and Saracen, between white and brown: and if you try very hard, allowing a glimmer of gold from the Basilica to seep beneath your eyelids, and a fragrance of cream to enter your nostrils, and the distant melody of a cafe pianist to orchestrate your thoughts if you really try, you can imagine her a noble market-place again.
In these incomparable palaces, East and West might meet once more, to fuse their philosophies at last, and settle their squalid bickerings.
Venice is made for greatness, a God-built city, and her obvious destiny is mediation.
A wonderful, lively, fascinating guide to Venice and the surrounding islands and lagoon.
It brought back memories of my own all-too-brief visit to the Serenissima - three days isn't enough!Jan Morris actually lived in Venice for some time, and writes both as an outsider and as an inhabitant.
We learn what it is like to drive a boat around the lagoon's perilous waterways, to shop in the markets and brush shoulders with the tourists at the Accademia and the Piazza.
And yes, Murano glass really is that gross!I would love to return - but should the Serenissima be protected from all those tourists who boost her economy and destroy her infrastructure by overloading her?
No other book could be filled with as many details about Venice and its environs as this one.
Certainly, it made me wish that I could go back to Venice to see all the campos, small churches and artwork that I missed on my previous visits.
It is important to remember that this book was published first in 1960.
I don't think a writer completing this in 2017 would use the same terms.
There is so much detail here that it would be difficult to use the book as a modern guidebook as the material is not organzied the way that modern guide books do.
Lovely writing. I listened to this one on audio and highly recommend doing  that, because in hearing the accent and proper pronounciations it comes alive, and tranports one. I listened while walking by the lake at Fairystones Park. It's not the Grand Canal, but one does what one can. I feel that he includes so much, I may read it again in spring. Venice is probably different in spring, than she has been in fall.
Although I enjoyed Morris's book on Spain I found this one just too much and (a bit like Venice) sank in a morass of detail and failed to finish. It did have some fascinating information but it needs a special sort of person to take it all in.
Great book.
