https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1419087.The_Soul_Of_The_White_Ant
3) killing the queen, which causes all other termites to die unless there is another termitary nearby in which case they will simply serve that termitary.
(It is necessary for the termites to be familiar with the others beforehand; if simply introduced into another termitary at random they will be instantly attacked.) The whole book is fascinating in a way that I would not have expected and I am very curious to find out what further research has revealed, especially with regard to the impenetrable mysteries dotted throughout.
Individual workers in their thousands make half-hour journeys down this channel ferry up moisture a drop at a time to feed the queen, irrigate the "nurseries" and for use in construction of the nest.In the bigger picture, Marais identifies and explores the remarkable collective behaviour of the community which he sees as a "group soul" that manifests the life of the termitary through the highly-differentiated functions of workers, soldiers and royalty.
I have never been a fan of sciene or biology books but on a recent trip to africa a friend recommended i pick this one up.
It's very well known in africa but has received almost no attention here.
Because he wrote in Afrikaans his work was not widely known and eventually a Belgian author republished Marais' findings as his own -- eventually leading Marais to take his life.
I know it sounds weird to promote a book on termites but its a truly unique and incredible read.
This book reaffirms a preexisting belief that I have - if you invest enough time into something, it becomes rich with meaning.
His research is thorough and thoughtful, possessing a deep respect for this insect.
His enchantment with the termitary is so complete that you can't help but be infected by his writing.I would recommend this book to anyone who loves their work with abandon, or has an insatiable curiosity about the world.
There's not a single chance you will walk away and not feel inspired.
Warning: You will also likely walk away with a deep respect for termites.
I got this book from the local library just by chance while browsing for something else altogether.
What luck, for this opened up a whole new perspective for me regarding the lives of termites.
Hmmm, that sounded a bit odd.
A proper review is what this book deserves.
For now I will say this is an amazing book, with exceptional quality of writing.
I'm going to look for his other books now.
And if I find any of them in the shops, I will just grab without thinking.
This might be the one push for me to want to learn Afrikaans properly.
The best book I ever read about termites, hands down! Naturalist Eugene Marais's study of the termite offers fascinating insights into their world, and life itself. I'll never look at a termite's nest again the same way.
I read this book on the recommendation of Rabbi Daniel Lapin, from a discussion of it on his podcast.
I have no interest in insects, let alone termites (except to kill them before they eat my house), but this book was very interesting nonetheless.
He discusses the "group psyche or soul," which is interesting.
Even though we are a culture based on individualism, we are still interconnected, just as each organ in our bodies have separate functions, but are working for a communal purpose.
This tension between individual and community has lessons for humans, and how we organize our society.
Interesting read, thanks Rabbi Lapin.
A fascinating and very enjoyable read about termites. Written almost one hundred years ago by Eugene Marais the book discusses his meticulous observations of the termites of South Africa and the conclusions he drew from them. Some of his conclusions are dated and a few are naive but most are very relevant even today. His observation that the termite colony works very much like an individual organism I thought was very interesting. His writing was extremely accessible unlike many scientific journals and he presented his observations and conclusions in a very conversational manner.
WOW! very very very interesting. After a trip to Africa a friend reccomended to read the book. I am not a biologist and have never paid much interest in this field, but it was truly fascinating. Good Good book, RIP to a very clever, passionate man!
Lettura affascinante!

How we humans underestimate the intelligence of creatures so radically different from ourselves as ants appear to be! Yet there are parallels because ants too are social creatures. Looked at with true objectivity, are we really 'God's chosen'? Reading this book encourages as many questions as it answers.
Brilliant. Especially when you consider the time in which his research was conducted.The insight, creativity and ingenuity of his experiments are second to none.All naturalists can look up to this man and his feel for field work.
Some very interesting facts and ideas in here
Surprisingly good read. Amazing facts about termites.
He wasn't even a real scientist, just some guy who spent years messing around with termites.
