https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43641.Water_for_Elephants
The narrator/main character, Jacob, is clearly infatuated with her, but I'm not sure why other than she looks good in pink sequins.
The novel really ends up being more of a romance tale, and to be honest I think it would be just as interesting (more so?) without Marlena.There were several instances of explicit sexual encounters fairly close together in the heart of the novel that annoyed me.
I'm not sure what exactly she was trying to prove ("Look, I can write like a man: men think about sex all the time!"), but it was unnecessary.
Besides the hackneyed stereotype of the mentally ill being violent, August's schizophrenia appeared to be a plot device to bring Jacob and Marlena together without making them look like bad people for cheating.
I think the affair would've been much more interesting if August was...well, basically a normal husband who was maybe a little too obsessed with his own accomplishments.The romance between Jacob and Marlena made me yawn.
While Jacob was a fairly developed character, Marlena was the epitome of a side-female love interest: gorgeous with little beneath the surface.
If Marlena were developed further (and if she had a flaw or two), I could buy their love story.
I wanted to like this book. I really did. I even enjoyed the first couple of chapters and was prepared for an entertaining summer read Eventually, however, the lack of imagination, melodrama, and just plain bad writing did it in for me. At the risk of beating a dead horse (albeit a dead horse with tremendous appeal to book clubs across the United States), let me enumerate the problems (spoiler alert – not that I suggest you read this book anyway):1. Neither the narrator, nor any of the other cha
To illustrate with two examples: At the end of the 1930s storyline, following a deadly stampede in which the villain is murdered (yes, murdered) by an elephant (yes, an elephant), the narrator marries the girl (thus rescuing her from an abusive relationship) and takes from the recently failed circus 12 horses, a dog, a monkey, and an elephant (yes, an elephant!) to live with him and his wife happily ever after.
At the end of the present-day storyline, our same narrator, now widowed and without his menagerie, runs off to join the circus (again) and the age of 93, in what has all the makings of a Hallmark movie.4.
Oh man, this was lovely.
AND JUST FOR THE RECORD: THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS!I could not put this book down.
On the contrary I was pleasantly surprised that Jacob and Marlena ended up together because I thought the book was going to follow the format of those "never meant to be" loves.
You know, where they hook up, yearn for each other, but can't grow old together.I think the biggest disappointment I had with the book was Marlena's relative weakness.
Even so, Marlena's weakness didn't stop me from loving the book.What drew me in the most was our flash forwards to 93-year-old (or is it 90?) Jacob.
An evil owner, Uncle Al, Blackie the enforcer, August, the mood-challenged and abusive supervisor of animals, and husband of Marlena, who performs with horses, and with whom Jacob is smitten.
The roustabouts, the working men, are treated far differently from the performers and from management.
(p 131) You have to figure that any story featuring a character named Jacob should have a ladder, and indeed there are a few, but I did not see any particular heavenly references there.
Is there a parallel with the story of that earlier Jacob?
The math is simple:.........................Drum roll: Rosie the elephant works better than Ex-Lax!But on to the book now.
In addition to Jacob Jankowski's "love affair" with Rosie the elephant (and a noticeably less sweet affair with Marlena-the-bland-chick) we get a parallel story of Jacob the old guy (who is ninety.
It's a sad story of a cranky old guy in a nursing home who feels his mind and body falling apart but refuses to accept that, and realizes that life is beginning to pass him by.
I felt bad for August in the end, and I think it's the feeling the author was going for - some sympathy for the "villain".
From the big top to the nursing facility Gruen’s sharp, three dimensional, fictionally fluid characters will have you laughing out loud one minute, mouth agape in sheer terror the next.Hurry, hurry, step right up, readers and book lovers everywhere - if you hunger for a reading experience chock full of every conceivable emotion, beautifully written and wholly engrossing, Water for Elephants is a wondrous world, where fact and fiction combine, delivering the most memorable and pleasurable hours, you will be spend with a book.
Now THIS is a Good Book!When I finished reading Water for Elephants, goose bumps covered my skin.
Immediately engrossed, I had a hard time putting it down as I read the story of Jacob Jankowski and his reminiscence of days with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth--otherwise known as a train circus in 1930's America.A talented writer and storyteller, Sara Gruen takes readers on a bumpy and tense train ride through history.
It seems like most of the complaints have to do with cruelty to humans and animals in the story and the sex scenes sprinkled throughout Jacob’s experience with the circus.I do not feel that the sex described in these books was inappropriate or gratuitous.
In all instances (namely Barbra’s strip scene, Jacob’s deflowering with the circus prostitutes and the scene where he and Marlena finally made love), these descriptions helped to move the plot and create human experiences and reactions, which is what makes a book worth reading.
If the story was ABOUT the circus, there would have been no need to include details about Jacob as a 93-year-old man.
April 24, 2008 edition of Coastal View NewsThe glitz and grit, glam and sham of depression-era circus life limps along in Sara Gruen’s “Water for Elephants” with little aid from her shoddy prose, predictable plot and underdeveloped metaphor.
One or the other.” The younger Jacob is caring and cordial, while the older Jacob is cranky and more obstinate than a thousand elephants.Gruen sets her story in a depression-era circus, a second-rate one at that, in an attempt to redeem the freak show, the workingman and the downtrodden; to show that the fine line between illusion and reality is finer than most people imagine.
I don't deceive myself with the thought that modern day circuses are anything like the depression era one featured in this book but I was glad to see that Gruen didn't glorify the trade.I don't want to ruin the book for you but apparently people didn't just carry water for elephants.
In fact, not a single person in this book carries water to an elephant.
In fact, there were many moments when I wanted to put the book down, pick up some bolt cutters and track down the nearest animal-carrying circus.
Water for elephants, 2007, Sara GruenWater for Elephants is a historical novel by Sara Gruen, written as part of National Novel Writing Month. Publication date: 26 May 2006 (1st edition). The story is told as a series of memories by Jacob Jankowski, a 93-year-old man who lives in a nursing home. Jacob is told what to eat and what to do.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پنجم ماه سپتامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: آب برای فیلها؛ نویسنده: سارا گروئن (گرون)؛ مترجم: پروین آقایی؛ کرج، در دانش بهمن، 1388؛ در 383 ص، م
Jacob is told what to eat and what to do.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پنجم ماه سپتامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: آب برای فیلها؛ نویسنده: سارا گروئن (گرون)؛ مترجم: پروین آقایی؛ کرج، در دانش بهمن، 1388؛ در 383 ص، مصور؛ شابک: 9789641740674؛مترجم: مهناز سیدعلیخانی؛ تهران، آموت، 1391، در 464 ص، شابک: 9786006605098؛ ماجرای عاشق و معشوق نگون‌بختی ست، كه در دهه ی سی سده ی بیستم میلادی، در سیرکی در آمریکا، رخ می‌دهد.
در سیرک فیلی هست، که به نظر میرس،د نمی‌توان به او تعلیم داد، اما ژاکوب، راهی برای نزدیک شدن به فیل، پیدا می‌کند و ...؛ ا.
This book was PERFECT and I loved it. I want to read it again and again, and I can't recommend the audio book enough.
It's truly admirable to place the plot on a moving train and its roving fairgrounds...
There were plenty of chances to dash the reader away, to make poetry out of the circus workers' vagrant conditions, to use the animals as characters, not just decor,...
This novel is written concisely, but with often description so vague the reader just glides over it.
The result is a breezy, whimsical book that evokes the wonderment of the circus itself: there are fake lights, funny events, dashing drama, but its all definitely been seen before.NEW RETROSPECTIVE RATING: 4**** (2017: "for even artichokes have h...")
The story is written well enough, but I didn't find the idea very compelling & I just did not care about his relationships & rivalries with other characters.You may assume older Jacob's part of the book would be even less interesting by nature, but surprisingly these were the only parts I found myself engaging with.
At the end it is revealed that the entirety of young Jacob's experience in the circus takes place in 3.5 months, and I couldn't help but find that laughable.
It's through this older Jacob's thoughts and recollections that we find out his story and how his life came to the point it is now.Honestly, while younger Jacob had the more interesting setting, I really loved the older version of Jacob.
Sometimes I substitute an apple for the corn."That is a thought by Jacob as he ponders the fact that once in assisted living, the real food disapears.The real star of this book, in my opinion, is Rosie.
Not sure if I'll end up watching the movie honestly...I feel like alot of the time, the movie version doesn't live up to the vision of the book I have in my head, if that makes sense?
This book is so terrible it made me physically angry. It's predictable, cliched and unimaginative. The good-hearted poor boy meets the good-hearted beautiful girl, who's involved with the bad-hearted, controlling man. Whatever will happen?Seriously. Don't buy this book. I know the cover is pretty, and the title is intriguing, and the summary is enticing. It's all razzle-dazzle. Kinda like a circus itself.
This is a very good example of why one should have no expectations when going into a book.
I wanted this book to be great.
I thought this book was going to be great.
The only other circus book I’ve read was GEEK LOVE, and holy shit.
All of this lead me to believe that I was about to be blown away.But, it wasn’t awesome.
Normally, I probably would have just thought, meh- good, but not great.
But the fiction part… basically, is an unimaginative love story with boring, cliché characters that I couldn’t stand and a Hollywood ending.Boo.
I can fully see why this book has such a polarizing effect on its readers: the circus setting led me to anticipate this as a fantastical and magical, fast-paced read, akin to The Night Circus.
This was densely descriptive and evocative of the life of Jacob Jankowski, veterinarian for the Benzini Brothers' circus show, but there was little plot to move the story forward.The novel was split between past Jacob, as he traveled with the circus, and present Jacob, as he reminisced on his life whilst incarcerated into a nursing home by ill-health and old age.
I just finished reading "Water for Elephants" out on my deck.
Sara Gruen also tries to intersperse a 90-year-old's reminiscings and it just comes out to obvious.
It just seems like it's been done before to tell the story from this vantage point.The book does have some good points.
Also, since the terrible dialogue takes up a good chunk of the book, you can skip it without missing any of the story making for a fast read.
And there are freaks with hearts of gold.But the most boo-able thing about this book is probably not Gruen's fault, and that is the timing with the HBO show Carnivale.
2.5
Reading this was like running a marathon on bloody stumps.
Oprah's minions shall no longer rule my reading!Maybe I might have disliked this a little less if I'd just read it instead of listened to the horribly narrated audiobook.
I don't think I've ever taken this long to get through an audiobook.
My thing is, if I have a boring job to do like yardwork or servicing my lady*, I plug in an audiobook and both the book and the job whizz by.
The days-long NFL draft came in handy.* "My lady" is the term I use for my car.
I wasn’t planning on reading this story, but my co-worker insisted.
What I didn’t enjoy so much was how the story went from a fascinating look at life and hardship during the Great Depression, to circus life – its magic, sparkly costumes, and performing animals, and the harsh living and working conditions – to a tepid, plodding romance between Jacob and the kind, beautiful and lifeless Marlena.The tacked-on, sappy ending was disappointing too.Overall, it was an entertaining story, just not one that will stay with me.
So step right up folks because this old man has quite the story to tell.At the age of 23 Jacob had a predictable future set out ahead of him, one that certainly didn’t involve joining the circus.
Water For Elephants transported me to another time and quickly became one of those books I never wanted to end.Author Sara Gruen has researched the depression era circus life down to the smallest of details and I feel that this captivating and vivid story will appeal to almost anyone.
2 starsReview to comeBR with ~Bellegirl91~There are things I liked and disliked about this book.
Such a whimsical and fascinating novel. Some of the violence involving circus animals was a little upsetting but overall, I enjoyed reading about Jacob's story. I really liked him. :)
Because Gruen juxtaposes her novel against the Great Depression, careful readers will find an interesting opportunity for retrospection around how we treat elders today and during the depression and where we put our "unwanteds."The book is fantastical and clearly well researched, with the exception of one character being misdiagnosed as "paranoid schizoprenic." This inaccuracy can be forgiven.
That's a lot to put comfortably in a book - and to Gruen's credit I didn't feel overcrowded.
I don't feel that Gruen inhabited her as the writer - she didn't quite come to life for me, I didn't find her realistic or understand her.
As it turns out he has landed in a circus train.
What follows are his experiences in the circus.
His wife Marlena whom Jacob follows in love with.
Then there are the animals, especially the elephant Rosie.
The circus environment is well researched and very realistic - be it the way animals are trained to perform, including cruelty many times or how the performers make their living....However the story line is very predictable and the characters are not too well etched.
You do feel for the elephant Rosie though.
This book had incredible promise with it's circus scenario but falls short with characterization, story and pace.
Hach, was für ein schönes Ende ♥
