https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/279245.The_Concept_of_the_Political
The most important idea that Schmitt describes is the 'friend-enemy' distinction in politics.
When two groups are mutual enemies, he views their conflict as something that cannot be solved by classical liberal means of discussion or compromise, but conflict.
This edition also has an additional essay against the 'depoliticization' of life which classical liberalism claims and a blind faith in technology to solve all problems.
His idea of friends and enemies is one which resonates with many in politics, especially in the age of terrorism and Huntingon's talk of the Clash of Civilizations.
This is the most dangerous book you'll ever read!
Except it's barely 'political' in that sense at all, and is more of an essay than a book.
For Schmitt, at least, you're left with the opposition between friends and enemies, where enemies are people in the world who threaten the sovereignty of your (political) state.
Sure there's an odd suspicion that Schmitt really wishes there was more war between friends and enemies.
You can let little Sammy read this book without fear that he'll suddenly goose-step his way over your face.
Otherwise, there are three commentators here, Strong, Schwab and Strauss.
Carl Schmitt, like Martin Heidegger, has the scary Nazi stain permanently covering his philosophical legacy.
Schmitt brings up such things as how whenever the leaders of a country want to go and mass murderer a bunch of people in war, the leaders go on about protecting "humanity." Of course, the enemy of humanity (despite being part of humanity) is no longer part of humanity but something lower, something worthy of extermination.
Schmitt spends most of the book critiquing liberalism and how it is at odds with the state.
"Of the conservative thinkers I have read in the last few years, Schmitt is by far the worst. I disagree with him on every level – philosophical, ethical, practical, formal, psychological, and empirical. He epitomizes what Nietzsche describes as the worst characteristics of German intellectual life – ponderous, metaphysical, impatient, hostile, totalizing in his rigid framework, and completely humorless. I haven’t disagreed with a work so completely since I read Sayyid Qutb’s Milestones, which is not altogether dissimilar from Schmitt’s essay in spirit. "My full review is here: https://mesocosm.net/2018/10/15/carl-...
Carl Schmitt (1888-1985) is most recognised for his idea of friend-foe distinction.
The ability of a group of people to define their enemies and friends constitutes the political.
I find it interesting, that the friend-foe distinction is not the result of his thought process, but its starting point.
He postulates the friend-foe distinction as the axiom of the political sphere and develops his thinking on concepts such as liberalism, pacifism or the League of Nations (he does not think much of any of these) from that point.
Apart from that Schmitt still believes that the nation state is the core category of friend-foe distinctions.
dangerous, yet brilliant.
We recognize the pluralism of spiritual life and know that the central domain of spiritual existence cannot be a neutral domain and that it is wrong to solve a political problem with the antithesis of organic and mechanistic, life and death.
A life which has only death as its antithesis is no longer life but powerlessness and helplessness.
Whoever knows no other enemy than death and recognizes in his enemy nothing more than an empty mechanism is nearer to death than life.
In the domain of economics there are no enemies, only competitors, and in a thoroughly moral and ethical world perhaps only debating adversaries.''it cannot be denied that nations continue to group themselves according to the friend and enemy antithesis, that the distinction still remains actual today, and that this is an ever-present possibility for every people existing in the political sphere.''An enemy exists only when, at least potentially, one fighting collectivity of people confronts a similar collectivity.''War is the existential negation of the enemy.
“The specific political distinction to which political actions and motives can be reduced is that between friend and enemy”. A very interesting exploration of what the political and non-political realm encompasses, a detailed categorization of different types of conflicts, as well as a strong criticism of liberalism as a system which destroys democracy (the way Schmitt understood and accepted democracy). Asserts the need of having a strong state as the decision maker and the ultimate power.
Nonetheless, Schmitt puts forward some interesting and relevant views that would appeal to fans of Hobbes and Machiavelli, and which I think have a particular endurance for International Relations (IR).
To a significant extent I felt that there was a lot to be said for this view of the political at the level of international relations.
The only thing we as a nation have in common with each other is our supposed difference to other nations, and these relations are defined constantly in a militarised world by the underlying threat of conflict.
To that end, his fulminations against disingenuous value-neutral liberalism and the depoliticization of modern life are really assaults on the intellectual framework behind the Versailles treaty, and concomitant Allied propaganda about the Hunnish behavior of Germany during the First World War.In a penetrating essay included in my edition, Leo Strauss points out that, emotionally, Schmitt doesn’t seem to merely feel that politics (and the grounding of politics, war) is inescapable, but more so that life without the grand seriousness of politics is distasteful, mere ‘entertainment’.

I read this philosophical work with the help of the book 'Carl Schmitt and Leo Strauss: The Hidden Dialogue' by Heinrich Meier and many other works of Carl Schmitt.My objective in reading this book was to bring Carl's theological (political) worldview to the foreground.All I can say is that this philosopher made me reconsider the unproblematic simplicity of my liberal democratic worldview. Challenging my naive intuition with biting ideas. Must read for those who want to underpin their political views with philosophy and like a challenge.
Qui sopraggiunge un elemento tipico del modo di pensare di S.: non si può ragionare di Legge e politica, senza fare anche un discorso storico, poiché la Legge è qualcosa che esiste nella fatticità del reale e non solo sui libri.
cala il suo pensiero nella situazione storica da lui analizzata, ma questo rende difficile la lettura a chi non ha informazioni sul periodo di cui parla (per approcciarsi a questo testo converrà raccogliere qualche informazione sull'ordinamento della Repubblica di Weimar, visto che quasi tutti i ragionamenti fanno riferimento ad essa).
In più, affinché nasca una comunità, c'è bisogno che questa terra venga ridistribuita: il potere politico, quindi, non è che un'appropriazione e redistribuzione della terra.
"It is a manifest fraud to condemn war as homicide and then demand of men that they wage war, kill and be killed, so that there will never again be war.
War, the readiness of combatants to die, the physical killing of human beings who belong on the side of the enemy - all this has no normative meaning but an existential meaning only, particularly in a real combat situation with a real enemy.
There exists no rational purpose, no norm no matter how true, no program no matter how exemplary, no social ideal no matter how beautiful, no legitimacy nor legality which could justify men killing each other for this reason."
De todos los libros que tuve que leer para Teoría Política,. este fue lejos el mejor. Pero una precaución: no estarecomendado para ilusos, utópicos, idealistas. Es para quien quiera llegar a "la esencia" de la política, que para Schmitt radica en el "conflicto", no verbal o económico, sino que "existencial", es decir, la oposición específicamente política es la de amigo-enemigo, y se define porque al menos existe la eventualidad de matarse mutuamente.LA crítica al concepto de Estado tradicional,
De todos los libros que tuve que leer para Teoría Política,.
este fue lejos el mejor.
Es para quien quiera llegar a "la esencia" de la política, que para Schmitt radica en el "conflicto", no verbal o económico, sino que "existencial", es decir, la oposición específicamente política es la de amigo-enemigo, y se define porque al menos existe la eventualidad de matarse mutuamente.LA crítica al concepto de Estado tradicional, así como al weberiano, es implacable, y uno termina convencido de las tesis de este sujeto.CApítulo aparte es su crítica al liberalismo, verdadera joya de un espíritu crítico que uno ya no ve.
Cuando el estado decide que el enemigo es uno, pero el pueblo decide que el enemigo es otro diferente, se trata de una revolución en la que la soberanía del Estado se ve amenazada.Schmitt utiliza esta definición de lo político para atacar el liberalismo y sus pretensiones de despolitización.
La asimilación de pares amigo-enemigo, la idea de que el liberalismo es apolítico, inofensivo, se cae rápidamente cuando se pretende atacar a sus pilares (la libertad "de" y no la libertad "para", la soberanía del individuo, el derecho a la propiedad privada y demás).La crítica de Schmitt sigue siendo válida: cuando el orden establecido se presenta como lo neutro, lo equidistante es posible evidenciar que esto no es el caso atacando sus propios fundamentos.
By defining 'the concept of the political' as the friend-enemy grouping, Schmitt articulates an incisive critique of liberalism and of its alleged attempt of 'neutralizing the political' by depoliticizing the economy. Schmitt affirms the importance of reviving the political which, in his view, has been concealed by liberalism. Leo Strauss' notes are important to understand the distance between Hobbes and Schmitt, since the former is seen as the father of liberalism, and the latter as his most original opponent.
You'd think a "Nazi philosopher" would be on the outs, but serious, modern, liberal people are more into him than ever. Eric Posner and Adrian Vermeule are really into him, and they make his work the basis for their new theory of the American Constitution in "The Executive Unbound." Apparently you cannot dismiss him--perhaps he is at bottom incoherent and ultimately a very bad guy--but you cannot dismiss some of his concerns. I'm still trying to figure out what to think.
When a social tension (be it moral, economic, religious, etc) intensifies, a clear line is drawn between friends and enemies. Schmitt considers this latent possibility of violent conflict the essence of politics. After definig politics as this game of alliances, he goes on to clarify the role of the State and revolutionary partisans.An essencial read to understand Tiqqun (specially Civil War).
schmitt suggests that the concept of the political is rooted in the "friend-enemy" distinction. not a moral enemy, a business enemy...but an existential "other" that always implies the possibility of conflict and war. it's eerie how this book, written in the late 20's, speaks very much to the current political landscape - i mean, US and china? yeah.
C. Schmitt does never cease to amaze me. This man did not only introduce a simple paradigm that remains unquestionably valid after almost 100 years, but also did other astonishing things, coining the term 'depoliticization', predicting the likeliness of the break of a (second) world war and many more.
A frank explanation of politics, and the fact of an ever-present adversary in some form. No 'political science' is really science, and most 'political theory' is nonsense, but Schmitt seems to be saying things that match up with reality here. I need to read this again.
I liked it, strictly for the critique it presents for a liberal constitutionalist democracy. I might not necessarily agree with the substance of his argument, but he has quite the realist outlook on politics and makes sure not to have too much intellectual hogwash in his conceptualization.
Schmitt is a challenging thinker, and not a little controversial, but he makes some very sound criticisms of late liberalism. His critique of wars and political forces that seek world domination in the name of humanity, justice, or other abstract values is very necessary for today.
I got far more out of this go-through than I did the previous time in terms of its actual depth. Its impact when I first read it was still huge though.
I was surprised by the Existentialist aspect of Schmitt's arguments.
Dry, simple, unfinished, yet... mindblowing!
As Richard Bernstein once called out to a friend of mine while she was reading this book:"Don't be seduced!"
Schmitt believed that in the political realm- the enemy didn't require a face, the enemy is essentially whomever the state wanted to wage war with.
In a broader sense, humanity cannot inherently have enemies in accordance to nature but instead through politicization of numerous factors within their existence.
The waging of violence is a constant threat and the "enemy" serves as the prerequisite to this state of war.
In the political, the aim of the state was the declaring an enemy even when there ceased for one to exist.
Where the enemy is dehumanized and indistinguishable under the political.
