https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20443235-the-winner-s-kiss
No battle is won without a good gamble. This series has come a long way from its tame romantic beginnings in The Winner's Curse. The final installment finishes the series on an emotional, action-packed high, weaving in more game, winning and gambling metaphors to add to the running theme.A couple of years ago, I was disappointed with the much-loved The Winner's Curse. The author had a good writing style that engaged the reader, but it was so tame! So much romance dampening the secrets, revenge
The final installment finishes the series on an emotional, action-packed high, weaving in more game, winning and gambling metaphors to add to the running theme.A couple of years ago, I was disappointed with the much-loved The Winner's Curse.
However, I was so happy I gave in and tried The Winner's Crime, a far more well-written, well-developed book with a fantastic story and just enough romance.This book, though, is a near perfect ending.
Because of this, the big battle scene is perfectly told, with plenty of heart-stopping moments.In The Winner's Kiss, the romance is more mature.
I definitely didn't expect the changes Kestrel underwent; she is both the same and vastly different, exploring physical and mental strength of female characters.
I am fiercely in love with all things Kestrel and Arin.
Finally a YA book where it's not the fantasy world keeping them apart, but actual real relationship bumps that plagues us all: break down of communication, acknowledgements of individual changes and growth, trust issues, accepting faults along with strengths, understanding personal struggles, guilt of hurting the one you love the most, forgiveness, and above all, mutual respect.
"Kestrel," he said softly, "I love this person."
4.5 sooooo gooooood
Gods I love this series. Flawless.
4.5 stars Exquisitely painful, in the best of ways.
I finished this book on one sitting. I have no regrets.
a beautiful end to one of my favorite series ever. quintessentially marie <3
I'm crying and screaming and laughing and shaking, I'm full of so many emotions but most of all just happiness; I can't believe this series is over, but I am so so overjoyed with how it ended. Review to come when I finally stop smiling like an idiot and my hands stop shaking.
Before Reading: I'm going to need Arin and Kestrel kissing.
Thank you for Arin.
Seriously, thank you.
Arin has moved to the top of my YA Book Boy Shelf.
Because swooning is a real thing.Have I said thank you for Arin yet?
Thank you for Roshar.
He is the Be Fri to Arin's Est End and I want to keep him.
Thank you for the love, friendship, forgiveness, romance, and redemption woven throughout this series.
Thank you for all of the things I can't say right now--because spoilers--but that I fully intend to tackle hug you for the next time I see you.
Marie Rutkoski isn't an ordinary author.She's an artist.  “Later, Kestrel wished she had spoken then, that no time had been lost. She wished that she’d had the courage that very moment to tell Arin what she’d finally known to be true: that she loved him with the whole of her heart.”  The Winner's Kiss isn't an ordinary book.It's a poem. A sad melody. The blood that pumps in your veins. The air that ruffles your hair.It's a promise. A promise of love lost and found.It is beauty, in its purest and
She wished that she’d had the courage that very moment to tell Arin what she’d finally known to be true: that she loved him with the whole of her heart.”
Marie Rutkoski managed to compose a tale of war and love with threads of sadness, hope and despair, all of them at the same time.
In the final book of this trilogy, Arin and Kestrel got to know each other and fall in love from the start and this time, there were no lies and deception but bluntness and honesty.
An emotion tugged at his expression, a dark awe, the kind saved for a wild storm that rends the sky but doesn’t ravage your existence, doesn’t destroy every thing you love.
Shame on me!I have this hollow feeling after reading this book, I loved it and all, but the ending left me kind of devastated.
This book felt like nostalgia, a melancholic touch of vague feelings.
BUT, somewhere along the way, around the second half of the book I felt like I was reading a completely different book.
I loved the winners crime so much, that honestly the second half of this book disappointed me a little.
Kestrel: “I want better choices.”Arin: “Then we must make a world that has them.”On a more positive note, I did FINALLY end up enjoying the romance between Arin and Kestrel, although I am still not certain why Arin fell in love with her, but I already covered that in a previous review.
Suddenly, Arin is being advised constantly by the god of Death, despite not having done so in the past two books, and I’m very confused as to why Rutkoski decided to include this.
I’m speechless.This book was the perfect ending to one of my all-time favourite series.
However, as soon as I started the novel two things became very clear.1)	The writing was STUNNING.2)	I loved the female protagonist, Kestrel.As the book went on, these feelings intensified and I found myself drawn to this story of star-crossed lovers despite my aversion towards romance and books that don’t contain enough world-building.
So I ended up really liking the first book in this series, but I wasn’t in love with it yet.Then The Winner's Crime came along (click here here for my review) and I was blown out of the water.
KISS WON'T BE ENOUGH OKAY I NEED THE WHOLE ENCHILADA IYKWIM
“I want better choices.”“Then we must make a world that has them.” Doesn’t it feel good when you finish a really great book and you just stay still and thank God for what you’ve just read?After this long year of anticipating this book, the only thing I can say is: wow.Remember this review contain untagged spoilers so read at your own risk.Marie’s writing style was as rich and fluid as always and the POVs intricate themselves into something heartbreaking and beautiful. The Winner’s Kiss was fas
Everything was leading to this banquet at the end and I was expecting them to slaughter Arin and Kestrel or something like that.
I mean, I normally don’t like this and how the book can turn into a sob fest but Kestrel had all the right to feel hopeless and sad because she was!
So, for me Arin evolved and also his love for Kestrel turned into something way more mature and beautiful.
His role in the war was really important and I was glad to see more of his mind on action.The way Arin and Kestrel interacted was very different from the previous books due to the fact that there were no more secrets.
This expedient, then, was so unexpected, so much as to give me pause at first, but then I saw the idea -fleeing, elusive, very Rutkoskian- lying beneath: it was the last round of Kestrel versus herself, but while before her enemy was her heart, now it's her mind she has to overcome.
The way Rutkoski's words unfold with the finest grace, fall upon your mind like the lightest feather or the sweetest beam of light?
Rutkoski, who, when it comes to words, is a deity, makes me feel ashamed of having ever thought such a fool thing.)➽ I'll never shake this series off my heart, or off my mind, for that matter.
Arin is a twat at times and he thought everything Kestrel did to make him not like her was true.
. Kestrel's father finds a letter she had written to Arin coming clean about helping him and loving him and wanting to be with him.
That twat of a father let the emperor read the letter and they put Kestrel in a prison!!!!!!!!!
Then we have to go on the journey of her getting off the drugs, remembering who she is and who Arin is and what her father did to her.
Kestrel goes and kills the emperor!
I feel like a totally different author wrote this book.
At the mines, Kestrel is given a drug with her meals and drinks that slowly makes her lose her memories.
It's like about the first half of the book and I was just bored out of my mind.
I loved their romance when they were apart, but together they just didn't work out.
(I think it was because Kestrel didn't remember him, maybe?) Anyways, everything was just very different and I didn't like it at all.
Arin will not lose his country without a fight and with his new alliance with Dacra and the god of Death on his side, he will be unstoppable.Kestrel will break your heart in this book; she has been a force to be reckoned with through this series, her clever wits and strategic mind have been her greatest weapons but I feel you don’t really know a character until you’ve witnessed them at their highs and lows--- let me tell you, Kestrel hits rock bottom but I am in awe of her strength and ability to get back up.
The first book lacked a lot of things for me, in terms of world building and character explorations.
However, the second and third instalments, improved drastically and beautifully, and my heart is bursting with love for these books right now.
Marie Rutkoski took her sweet time and gave every character, every detail, every element to this story its due right.
The characters and the story is something that has now embedded itself into my heart.
I had the best time reading it and I'm already looking forward to the day I decide to reread them.
this book is a fr*cking masterpiece. it is everything i could've dreamed it to be and more. there's not a thing i would change about this book.
I, Erica's ghost, have a lot of things to say about this but feel inadequate to verbalize my love/obsession/adoration/fascination with this spectacular story using coherent thought.
She made the story absolutely fucking spectacular.Oh so often authors stretch out their series by adding unnecessary drama (i.e. personal relationships or magical worlds getting in the way) but Marie Rutkoski made a story where the conflicts were, however extraordinary, ultimately understandable.
Ultimately, I think that this whole series has the overarching theme of the transformative power of love.
I don't think I know anyone who hasn't loved this series, and when I found out that The Winner's Kiss was up on NetGalley, I requested it so quickly.
There were moments when my heart just broke whilst reading her PoV chapters, and I loved seeing her grow, and come to terms with the fact that her native Valorian people aren't the best, and she has more connection with the Herrani in reality.Arin, well, he had to deal with a lot in this book too.
Buddy read with Lys <3PRETTY MUCH PERFECT.“He told himself a story.Not at first.At first, there wasn’t time for thoughts that came in the shape of words.
Listen to me.Arin did."You can't trust many authors to deliver like Rutkoski did.
And to be honest Marie Rutkoski was the only author I both trusted to break my heart several times and to write a pretty much perfect series.
The winner's kiss is nothing short of perfection and I'm not even sure it's my favourite of the series.
She keeps her heart in a porcelain box, people whispered, and they were right.She didn’t like to open the box.
Fellow readers and fangirls, I have come to preach to you the awesomeness that is this book, this series, this writer. And I’ve come armed. With words. And feels. And quotes. The Winner’s Curse was a gentle introduction to the characters, the world and the romance. I loved it. The Winner’s Crime was a crescendo of court intrigue, sticky webs of lies and the first glimpses of war. I loved it. The Winner’s Kiss was a battle cry. I loved it. I had astronomical expectations for this book, and it did
The Winner’s Curse was a gentle introduction to the characters, the world and the romance.
After the The Winner’s Crime, I didn’t hold much love for Arin.
This book is as much about self-discovery for Kestrel as it is for Arin.
Introduced in The Winner’s Crime (in a not especially memorable way), Roshar was a necessity to this instalment like we need air to breathe.
Dear Ms Rutkoski, as you are no stranger to cruelty yourself (yes, I am referring to the ending of The Winner's Crime), you may understand that if I don't get "Arin+Kestrel, unharmed, reunited", I will do very unkind things to your book.
After that ending of The Winner's Crime, I was dying to get my greedy hands on this book and I could never have expected what we got.The feels start right from the beginning and it's a rollercoaster that lasts the entire book.
I have loved Kestrel and Arin and I loved seeing how much they've grown from book 1.
They're different, yet the same.
And can I please get a novella or spin off with all of the Roshar?
This book is a perfect example of how you end a trilogy.**Huge thanks to Macmillan for the invite to read**
And I feel like a lot of the side characters (Sarsine, Roshar, etc) got a lot more fleshed out in this book and I really loved getting to know them.The plot was great, though the pacing was a little off for me.
Though I do love me some ARIN and KESTREL, the book bored me at times (OMG WHAT) but the other amazing parts almost made up for it.Overall really happy with this close to the series, but I don't know if any of the books will capture me and have the same magic for me as the first book.
“Arin pulled her onto his lap. He held her shaking form, tucked his face into the crook of her cold neck as she sobbed against him. He murmured that he loved her more than he could say. He promised that he would always choose her first.”  5 Shining Stars!The Winner's Kiss is the best and the most emotional book in the series, so prepare your tissues before starting to read it! I was an emotional mess after The Winner's Crime and I'd thought that The Winner's Kiss can't make my situation any wor
This is the summary of it!After reading this book too, I can finally say that Kestrel is in my list of top 3 favourite protagonists.
She was so far one of the strongest characters I've ever read of.Arin was as good as Kestrel.
I hope he and Kestrel will find their peace in their situation as the time goes on.I don't know what I'll do with my life anymore, I am so attached to this characters and to this world :( I feel so sad and feel like I'll cry even if I got the ending that I wanted.
Este es el más doloroso para los personajes, no sólo porque están en medio de una guerra, sino por sus situaciones individuales y como pareja.El emperador se enteró que Kestrel no estaba haciendo lo que había ordenado y que era espía de los herranies en la corte y la desterró y envió como prisionera a las tundras hacer trabajo forzoso.Arin ha conseguido aliados de los cuales no está seguro qué pasará si ganan la guerra.
This book forced me to realize that I only tattooed Arin + Kestrel 5ever on my lower back supported them when they were apart.
I want to clarify here that I’m making a sweeping generalization about love in YA fantasy, NOT giving unsubstantiated relationship advice.
OKAY, so a good relationship in books consists of the two characters supporting each other.
This book takes place during a WAR, and every time Kestrel tries to do ANYTHING - like, make a plan, sneak around, or GOD FORBID go to battle - he spends 20 pages moping and begging her not to go.
