https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/808477.He_Who_Whispers
For that to work you needed a genius like Agatha Christie, who made the unique location an integral part of both the story and the mystery, as with Murder on the Orient Express or And Then There Were None.
Miles hires her in spite of her history (or maybe because of it) and along with his sister--they are co-inheritors--they travel to their rural estate, where the past intrudes on the present with frightening results.Once the story shifts to this secluded location, as with the best of Carr, the reader is hooked.
In this case, the novel falls into a smaller category of Carr's work in that it is suggested that the crime is the work of a supernatural being (here, a vampire).
The detective is Dr. Gideon Fell.This novel is of some significance in the field of the Golden Age mystery because of its treatment of a sexual theme, that of nymphomania.
This is one of a few Carr mystery novels to deal with such a psycho-sexual theme (others are "The Judas Window", where a woman character poses for obscene photographs for her lover, and "The Sleeping Sphinx", which deals with sexual hysteria).
Da uno dei maestri indiscussi del giallo della camera chiusa, un gioiello nel quale si respira l' affascinante atmosfera di altri tempi.
Coinvolgente è il modo in cui il delitto principale della vicenda, quello del vecchio Howard Brooke, viene presentato al lettore (attraverso la lettura di una manoscritto di un altro personaggio, dunque attraverso un "racconto nel racconto"), mentre intelligente è il modo in cui l'intreccio viene costruito, tanto che difficilmente si riuscirà, una volta entrati nel romanzo, a staccare gli occhi dalle pagine, fino alla soluzione, imprevedibile, studiata, sorprendente, dell'intera vicenda.
This is one of the finest, most ingenious, and most atmospheric of the classic "locked room" mystery novels of John Dickson Carr.
While the author is most famous for his intricate and hard to solve murder puzzles, at least some of his hardcore fans like myself most enjoy the brooding atmosphere he creates, with a hint of the supernatural hanging over sometimes appalling crimes.
If this sounds a bit vague that is because I am trying not to give away any plot details, as I would never forgive myself if I spoiled the suprises of a great Carr mystery novel like this one!
Bir Agatha Christie değil
Excellent murder mystery with a supernatural (vampire) twist, this is my first time reading a Carr novel, and my first Dr. Fell adventure as well...
and it certainly won't be the last!
Unlike some mystery writers from this era, Carr has a fantastically clear writing style that makes following the endless twists and turns fun and exciting, instead of frustratingly confusing.
Carr paints such a hauntingly sad portrait of a gorgeous woman plagued by her past, you can't help but fall in love with her, right alongside Miles as he struggles to unravel the strange, and deadly mystery that surrounds her.
My favorite of Carr's mysteries. Not his best "impossible crime" gimmick but, in my opinion, it is best told tale among his novels. It is also, I believe, the only story in which he manages to write a fairly believable romantic subplot. I have reread it numerous times and expect to do so many more.
Gripping beginning, great atmosphere, but eventually just about okay.Full review here:http://inkquilletc.blogspot.in/2012/0...
Bello!!! Bello davvero!!! Dirompente e geniale!!! Logico e originale!!! Impossibile che nn sia nelle liste degli amanti del giallo classico
Very clever murder, or an attempt at one, anyway.In this story, towards the end, Dr. Fell hinted towards Fay's eroticism and her numerous sexual partners, which I suppose could be considered as a sex addiction or nymphomania.Here is an interesting from Curt in this review (http://mysteryfile.com/blog/?p=6646#c...)"...I do think it’s funny, though, in these books that you never have male nymphomaniacs, so the speak (I just looked this up: male nymphomania is called satyriasis!
Plus, it always makes for an interesting and unpredictable read, unlike most of the mysteries nowadays that you can simply guess who did the deed before the book even ends.
I'm really loving this little books and tea subbox.
I'm loving these little British mysteries that I've never heard of but can spend my Saturdays enjoying with a nice cup of tea.
I'm still quite sad that didn't end up being a focal point (I'm wondering if it is in other books in this series?) but the mystery presented at the Murder Club meeting was fascinating enough to distract me, haha.
I'm also super intrigued by this series in general so I'd love to see if I can dig up some more of these books.
Book #16 in the Gideon Fell series, published in 1946, and it appears to be only after the Allies had won the war that Carr could bring himself to write about what it had done to the England he loved.
It shows what a master he is that he can write with so few words and create such depth of tragic feeling, and at the same time create a twisted and fascinating story that is part conventional murder mystery, part history of the devastation of war, part psychological thriller, and part vampire story.
Readers share in that doubt up until the end of the book.
Fairly run-of-the-mill impossible crime. Six years ago, a man was killed atop a tower in France. He'd argued violently with his son; his son's fiancé was rumored to be all sorts of trouble, and was suspected in his death. But since the man was very clearly alone on the tower when he was stabbed... As usual, Dr. Fell explains it all.The puzzle itself wasn't bad, and the murder method even reappeared on TV within the past year. But it didn't seem to have the energy or immediacy of Carr's earlier work.
A "locked door" murder mystery that hints at vampires. The book starts with a meeting of the Murder Club, which actually makes the book appear to be heading in a direction it never actually goes. I got kind of excited when I thought the Murder Club had dissapeared, but then the book when in a different direction. The actual mystery was quite cool and worth the read. I always have a slight problem with books that have mysteries we the readers couldn't possibly solve, but the actual solution in this book is worth it.
Voted by ardent JDC fans as his best and not without reason. The enormous Dr. Fell with his several chins is in top form here.
A complex mystery with a complex conclusion, a little hard to buy, but the read is quite entertaining and compelling.
Tonight it is the turn of Professor Rigaud, and his brilliant tale of the murder of Howard Brooke in 1939 near Chartres, a French town 60km south of Paris.
In Western Europe, notably in France, the vampire is a demon, living outwardly a normal life in the community, but capable during sleep or trance of projecting its soul in the form of straw or spinning mist to take visible shape.”Professor Rigaud was a neighbour and friend of the Brookes, and recounts the dreadful day that Howard Brooke was murdered, at the top of an old, forty-foot tower (the “Tour Henri Quatre”) on his estate.
He tells them the Marion and Steve the Murder Club tale of Professor Rigaud, the amazing coincidence of Fay Seton, and of his intention to hire her.
Dřív mě hodně fascinoval (i tím, že v jedné jeho knize přiznává jeho detektiv, že je jen literární postava), v současnosti je už pro mě anglická škola asi tak zábavná jako čtení zadání do křížovky.
Ale tohle má vážně hodně propracované a promyšlené zadání.
A jo, člověk fakt musí snést to, že jsou postavy (hlavně ženské) stále na okraji hysterie a emoce s nimi mlátí o stěnu.
Ale když si člověk odmyslí tohle, tak pod tím je pořád vážně dobrý mechanismus s překvapivými zvraty.
Jo, je to naivní a v reálu by to nefungovalo, ale je to zábavný hlavolam - a pořád o dost lepší než severské detektivky.
While this is no doubt one of the macabre and supernatural tone to this story, unlike any other Dr. Fell cases, the lingering suspense and fast-paced run till the climax gives it a detective, turn-next-page zeal as well.
Once, the mystery was debunked, my interest fell down as I believe the explanation was superfluous.
I do remember Chapter 17 of Three Coffins where Dr Fell explains that the mystery once unsolved may leave the reader either impressed or flabbergasted, I felt the later in this story.But still, nothing taking away from the book's different storyline (eroticism, supernatural and unbelievable murder)
Miles Hammond is bemused to be invited to the first meeting of the Murder Club in five years, then flummoxed when none of the illustrious members arrive.
It's just him, a charming young lady named Barbara, and Prof.
Rigaud, who was to lecture on an infamous murder from before the war: a staid English family, an alluring secretary, and a man found stabbed in the back atop a tower no one else could have entered.
Miles soon finds the old mystery causing ripples in the present day.
Luckily, his good friend Dr. Gideon Fell, master of the inexplicable, is on hand.
El que susurra es otra atrapante novela que nos presenta la colección El Séptimo Círculo.Ambientada en una Londres recién salida de la guerra, entre las ruinas dejadas por los bombardeos y la gente que va volviendo a su rutina; y una casa solitaria rodeada por bosques, encontramos una atmósfera opresiva y sombría, el marco ideal para un buen relato de misterio, donde un crimen del pasado sin resolver, una mujer misteriosa, y el miedo, son los elementos principales de una historia que narra magistralmente las dudas y angustias del protagonista. https://sobrevolandolecturas.blogspot...
Another AMAZING pair of impossible crimes that stick in the mind and send shivers down the spine - but populated by characters I have serious problems with. Carr's female characters, in particular, are like no human females I've ever met, and so reading about them is a frustrating exercise. But this is still classic golden-age stuff and a lot of fun. 12+*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only. Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first. Thank you!*
The atmosphere of the book gripped my interest until the mystery began to reveal itself.
By the end the plot got so hideously farfetched and the main characters dry and unnatural, so I simply stopped enjoying it.
There’s a quote in the book which would perfectly describe the impression:“I gave you theories about a certain supernatural agency.
It would appear that in this case I was misled by facts intended to mislead.
But I do not put myself in ashes and sackcloth for that.
But I put myself in ashes and sackcloth because—in fine, because this is worse.”
算是舊書重新溫習。我一直沒有很喜歡卡爾，因為他製造懸疑轉折的方式有時候讓我不太耐煩（就是關鍵時刻不該跑掉的人突然跑了，或者某人講話突然被另一個人打斷），這一本的偵探菲爾博士我又不是很愛（我比較喜歡卡爾用另一個筆名寫的系列，偵探是律師Henry Merrivale|），但這兩天不知道為什麼突然想起來——因為卡爾在這本書裡安排了一個很特別的女性角色，所以雖然大半情節忘記了，我還是記得最後結尾。作者跟書裡的角色都認同這位女性是好人，但有個特別的「問題」。通常在大部分小說裡，有這種問題的人通常是不會被寫成好人，即使是現在可能也一樣⋯⋯這樣想想卡爾的處理算是滿難得的吧。
Di fatti, Il terrore che mormora è uno dei più fulgidi esempi dello stile di Carr, e ben sintetizza la sua capacità di unire il soprannaturale con la rigida analisi razionale, e sebbene sia sempre la seconda a trionfare, il primo contribuisce indubbiamente alla creazione di un'efficace tensione narrativa.
Quanto successo in Francia sei anni prima, come pure il tentato omicidio in casa Hammond, troverà una sua inattaccabile e del tutto plausibile spiegazione (per quanto piuttosto arzigogolata), e ovviamente di soprannaturale non rimarrà nulla.
Miles Hammond is invited by Dr. Gideon Fell to join a dinner of the Murder Club.
But Miles is at loose ends.
He can't even make it on time to the Murder Club dinner.
Just another guest (Barbara Morell) and a man with a fantastic story (Professor Rigaud).
It seems the professor was in France when a man was killed a the top of a tower, with no way anyone could have gotten to him.
When the murder starts to come closer to home, Miles had better hope that Dr. Fell can help distinguish the normal from the paranormal.
"At the edge o the woods by the river stands the tower.
Once part of a chateau since burnt down, only the tower remains.
The inside is but a shell with a stone staircase climbing spirally up the wall to a flat stone roof with a parapet."On that parapet the body of Howard Brooke lay bleeding.
The murdere, when Brooke's back was turned, must have drawn the sword-cane from it sheath and run him through the body.
And this must have ocurred betwen ten minutes to four and five minutes past four, when the two children discovered him dying."Yet the evidene showed conclusively that during this time not a living soul came near him!"~~back coverAnother mystery based on subterfuge and misdirection.
I like these post-war mysteries more for their historical details about everyday life and their frankly tortured approach to the moral ambiguity of writing about death for money (and our collusion in this morally grey area as readers and purchasers of the books) than for the "locked-room" puzzles, I realized. It's an odd combination of pure escapism (the characteristic "locked-room" puzzle for which JDC is known) and disgust for the fact that the writer and reader can intellectualize it in this way.
Same kind of plot set-up as the one by him as Carter Dickson I read recently - mysterious unsolved crime in past (not actually locked room, but person on top of tower alone and observed), related crime in present; I guessed the identity of the perp of the attempted murder, though without all the intricacies of motive. Rather skimmed the last quarter or so. Also, that weak heart seemed to come and go a lot depending on necessities of the plot.
Dr. Fell is the master of the closed room mystery. Carr gives him a good run here - and in almost all the Fell books. Good story, good mood settings, good characters. "I do not like thee, Dr. FellThe reason why I cannot tell;But this I know, and know quite well,I do not like thee, Dr. Fell."This Dr. Fell I quite like.
