https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25893709-my-name-is-lucy-barton
In this short book I came to know what an extraordinary character Lucy Barton is .
We learn not only about Lucy's past but her present - her marriage and her children but about the capacity for love when it seems an improbable thing.
What I found to be extraordinary about Lucy is that in spite of the past, she knows and has pretty much always known who and what she is .
In many ways the story is about her writing , but it is also about leaving when you need to, about coming to terms with who you are -the sum total of your past and present .
But thanks to first-person narrative, we get to see inside Lucy’s head: about her growing up in poverty, being abused, rising above it all, plus her constant worry about whether her mother loves her.
Often passive people simultaneously annoy me (spit it out already), bore me (move it, why don’t you?), and make me nervous (damn it, let me know what’s going on!).
Not a yawnfest, not Hallmarky, and authentic as hell.Yet another gripe: I know the story focuses on Lucy and mom, but I was frustrated not to find out more about what was going on in her current family.
There is a kind of tenderness, a gentleness in the telling of Lucy's story.
The voice of Lucy is not overly full of emotion rather her story evokes the emotion in us, the reader.
Mother, daughter relationships are all different and yet I think many times complicated.
There are so many poignant moments here, in this short book, conversations between mother and daughter do not center on what happened between them but are often about the marriages of other people they had both known.
The focus in on Lucy's life and past, things that mattered to her that she had never been able to overcome.
This is a story about a woman who loves her daughter. Imperfectly. Because we all love imperfectly.  Depressing as hell. But I enjoyed wallowing in it for a while.My Name Is Lucy Barton covers a life story, poverty, abuse, art, marriage, the AIDs epidemic and subsequent fear, and a difficult relationship between a mother and daughter, all in less than two hundred pages. It's quite emotionally exhausting for such a short book but - perhaps because I had so few prior expectations - I found myself
But I enjoyed wallowing in it for a while.My Name Is Lucy Barton covers a life story, poverty, abuse, art, marriage, the AIDs epidemic and subsequent fear, and a difficult relationship between a mother and daughter, all in less than two hundred pages.
Her estranged mother visits out of concern and around this visit, through conversations and journeys into both the past and future, Lucy's life and relationships are revealed.There are some truly heartbreaking scenes scattered throughout this short novel, with the ultimate focus being on family and the breaking and tying of familial bonds.
I'm reading through this beautifully written, way too short novel, and the whole time I'm thinking about my own life and my past and my family and my relationships with others.
The whole time I'm reading through the book, I have this weight pressing down on me.
Elizabeth Strout can do more in one paragraph than most authors can do with several pages.
The stories she weaves together and the way she shares them left me turning the pages feverishly with my mouth permanently hung open, eyes not blinking, thinking about crying, but trying to be tough about the whole thing.
**Updating this to 5★**I was totally captivated by this soulful, unassuming narrative that packs a punch of emotion.
The narrative begins with Lucy Barton reflecting on her life from the hospital bed where she spent 8 weeks after getting an infection from surgery.
She recalls her upbringing - the tough times and fleetingly disturbing moments that aren’t delved into too deeply but remembered with clarity; she speaks of the people in her life, their impact and how grateful she is to them all; her flawed life she acknowledges honestly with raw emotion.
I must have read a different version of the book than everyone else. My version was more like notes where each note could have been formed into a chapter and the chapters could have been organized into a story. If it is the actual novel that I just finished, I'm completely missing the point. Sorry. But thanks to NetGalley for the opportunity to attempt to understand this novel.
Her mother sits in a chair next to Lucy's hospital bed day & night- and doesn't seem to sleep.
Her mother shares stories about old friends, yet she can't seem to bring herself to talk about anything personal in Lucy's life- or their life together.
I got the feeling Lucy's mother was afraid her daughter might write horrible storiesabout the dysfunctions in the family....
By the time I came to the end I felt I had just had a conversation with loving thoughtful friend, the type that leaves you feeling richer from the shared experience.
Mother and daughter sit in the shadow of the Chrysler building and chat about people and life back in Amgash.
But she never demands it; never says ‘look at me and see how I’ve triumphed despite all.’ She hungers to hear those three words that she has never heard spoken aloud by her mother, 'I love you.' Mother and daughter mostly speak of other people they knew back home, avoiding the nitty gritty details of their own troubled lives and relationships.

I had the luxury of reading My name Is Lucy Barton in one sitting -- and if you can that's how I highly recommend this very short jewel of a novel be read.
The story is written many years later, with her time in the hospital as her focal point -- but the time span runs from her childhood to the present.
Her mother comes to stay with her in the hospital for a few days, which leads Lucy to dwell on her childhood of utter poverty in rural Illinois and her fraught relationship with her parents and siblings.
For such a short novel, it's dense with story, thoughts and emotions.
Second 2017 Update Upgrading my rating from 4 to 5 stars, no idea why I didn't before. Oh, I know, maybe because sometimes I am a dork!  2017 Update So a funny thing happened to me this weekend. Have you ever had a book "triggered" you to read another book, even if they are not exactly related?After I finished reading the wonderful Lillian Boxfish Takes a Walk, I was compelled to re-read My Name Is Lucy Barton, which I originally read almost exactly a year ago.There are some small similarities,
Second 2017 Update
2017 Update
Strout's writing is deceptively understated, but is amazing how well she can craft this character in such a slim volume and what emotional punch it has on the reader.This time I listened to the audio book narrated by Kimberly Farr, which really becomes Lucy Barton on this fantastic performance.
Highly recommended!*******************************************My Name Is Lucy BartonAbsolutely loved this emotional, heart-wrenching and introspective short novel.The mother-daughter relationships are especially poignant.
My Name is Lucy Barton is a short, simple, and quiet story that took me away from the noise and to that quiet place that I love.
I liked how the relationship with her Mother and some things in this story were left unsaid leaving me to ponder and savour this story.
I found it took me longer to gather my thoughts and write my review than it did to actually read the book and after pondering this story and thinking of the things said and left unsaid.
I am going to leave the rest of my thoughts unsaid and highly recommend reading My Name is Lucy Barton.
I had some expectations about  My Name Is Lucy Barton  and truly wanted to like it better.
I know sometimes people just can’t talk about love, can’t show what they feel.
I wanted to know why Lucy's father acted so cruelly towards her brother and what I got?
Instead of hearing about nurses at hospital I wanted to know her siblings.
Lucy Barton, you could do better, you’re a writer and you could give me your story instead of casting at me some vague snippets and shreds to pick them up.
I wished I could know you better but you barely showed me your blurred silhouette.
While it may be true that not every reader likes having the space between tiles, for me, squinting and mulling were part of the pleasure.
She’s careful to avoid making her mom feel bad, though, and in return, Lucy does seem comforted by the visit.
A fellow writer who served a short while as a mentor told Lucy we all have one story to tell.
(One small tile showed how both Lucy and her instructor jumped out of their seats when a cat suddenly entered the room.) A clear-sighted vision of whatever this thing may be could inform an entire world view as well as the story one tells to represent it.
Poignant and profound on so many different levels, Lucy Barton’s tale about herself is also a tale of many people in her life and an exploration of their human condition from the random kindness of strangers to those who thrived on the most basest of needs in humans to find ways to feel superior to others by putting them down* (in this book, the prejudices were based primarily on social status (poor), regional distinctions (Southern, read “trash,” "cheapies"), and sexuality).
It's all in the conversations, the dialog, the exchange of thoughts and ideas.....and even in those moments when words, themselves, are not even necessary.
Lucy has not seen her mother in years.
Much like the poem from Lewis Carroll, The Walrus and the Carpenter, they speak of "shoes and ships and sealing wax, of cabbages and kings." Their conversations touch from the mundane to the prolific as mother and daughter dance around topics sometimes best left unsaid.
And yet, so much is revealed, especially by Lucy.Elizabeth Strout can write hidden feelings into words like no other.
Lucy says: "It's funny how one thing can make you realize something like that.
I wanted to know more about Lucy’s past, I expected a credible reunion between mother and daughter after years of non-existent communication, not the gullible, superficial conversations they exchange during her mother’s brief return.And yet, there was much potential in the silences between them that suggested issues they didn’t dare to say out loud, issues I would have liked to take the main spot in the narrative instead of being lost amidst shallow chatter.
Like a conversation, the book meandered from thought to thought, bringing up different people and past events.
This is the trademark of Elizabeth Strout's work, these somewhat interconnected stories.
I had read All Things Are Possible before this book, so a lot of the names felt like familiar old friends whose history I already knew.
If you liked any of her other work, you will like this.
If you like character driven narratives, you'll like this.
The part that struck me the most was Sara Payne’s comment that Lucy’s writing was about people that love imperfectly.
It perfectly describes this book.


This one hurts, but it's amazing. I picked My Name Is Lucy Barton up one day randomly and ended up finishing it quite quickly, especially towards those last 100 pages. I was captivated by its strange but compelling storyline. Plus, I was really loving the vibe this book gave off. My Name Is Lucy Barton was exactly what I was in the mood for: an epic but, at the same time, quiet family saga. Oh, and there’s gossip (!!!) about people from Lucy's childhood in Amgash, Illinois.Our story begins to un
Slowly over their next five shared days, they reminisce on the lives of their family and friends.Side note: her mother remains a mystery that I'm desperate to solve, especially the dreams and visions she briefly mentioned.“My family did not attend my wedding or acknowledge it, but when my first daughter was born I called my parents from New York, and my mother said she had dreamed it, so she already knew I had a baby girl, but she didn’t know the name, and she seemed pleased with the name, Christina.
She also captures my heart by carrying through on an inspiration from her discovery of reading in grade school: “I will write and people will fell less alone!”We spend most of the book time in the 90s when as a middle-aged Manhattanite Lucy is forced to spend several months in the hospital with a prolonged illness.
Once in discussion with her, a cat startles both them excessively, prompting the teacher to recognize an important thing they share: “How long have you suffered post-traumatic stress?” The teacher also gets her thinking in terms of one’s life being a story the self is writing.
The book opens with Lucy recuperating in the hospital after an operation.
It seemed to mostly provide a setting for Lucy to reflect and assess her past life of living in very poor, abusive and dysfunctional family.
Yet, ultimately, this short book still seems to convey a sense of longing and searching.I love this author’s style of writing.
This method packs an emotional punch and sustains the story for me.
There are elements of the story that mirror my own life and provoked a lot of deep reflection after I finished the book.The language is spare.
I absolutely loved this quiet, reflective novel!
I so enjoyed this book and getting to know Lucy. I was so sad about her poor, abusive and emotionally disconnected family upbringing. I feel she managed very well to turn things around with her own children.The main part of the book, the visit from her estranged mother during Lucy's nine week hospital stay was touching, but sad because I felt the mother held back much of her emotions.The rest of this book was Lucy's insights on people and living. This author really made you feel Lucy's pain.
An apparently simple tale of a woman's life from early hardship to later success, yet nothing about it is actually simple.
Lucy Barton tells much of her story from a hospital bed where she has endless time to think back to her childhood and her life since.
By the end of the book Lucy is obviously someone to be admired for her ability to not only survive but to rise above her situation.
I enjoyed her story very much and also enjoyed the author's deft, understated style where nothing was actually explained yet so much was said.
My first book by this author but not my last!
While I really liked it (more than 'The Burgess Boys') I didn’t love it as much as I wanted.
I loved the ‘gossip’ segments of the various marriages of people in Lucy’s childhood but I never felt that I got the full sense of the troubled aspect of Lucy's upbringing.
Lucy's background stories were too vague and hazy.
I never fully got a sense of the full picture of Lucy’s background and experiences.
There’s nothing more frustrating than wanting to love something but didn’t and feeling that you may have missed out on something very special.
I think it might have worked better had I read this one first because this just gave me such an appetite to read "Anything is Possible" again and again and again.This book tells, kind of disjointedly (I mean that in the best possible way), the story of Lucy Barton's relationship with her mother.
However, I still think Elizabeth Strout is on her way of becoming one of my favourite authors - I just love love love the handle she has on characters and interactions and relationships and I adore that before all else in fiction.
Thanks to Random House, NetGalley and Goodreads.Eloquent and achingly poignant, this slim volume captures the intense longing a daughter, Lucy Barton, has for the love of her mother, who abused and neglected her as a child.
Lucy, who hasn’t seen her mother in many years, is hospitalized in New York City for 9 weeks due to complications from an appendectomy.
She awakens one day 3 weeks after being admitted to the hospital to find her mother unexpectedly at her bedside.
Wrapped around this five day visit are short chapters where Lucy reveals her life story – but you have to read between the lines.
We meet Lucy as she is undergoing a lengthy hospitalization; initially scheduled for an appendectomy, she has a series of complications that results in weeks away from home and family.
Then her mother, long estranged, comes to visit her in the hospital, an unusual visit in many ways but one that fuels her recovery, her future.What a fine book to finish my reading year!
(this review is, sadly, very delayed) Lucy Barton is a story of family, of damaged relationships and unspoken childhood problems, adulthood attempts to come to terms with the past, navigating relationships throughout life while protecting the self, the remaining child.
