https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126780.Gray_Dawn
I read this book for the first time probably around fifty years ago, smitten as a kid with an obsession with all things Terhune.
In my recent reaquaintance with his writings and life, chiefly through The Sunnybank Memorial group and their yearly gatherings at Sunnybank, I have decided to re-read the old Terhune classics.
In his rather archaic prose, Terhune tells the story of a bumptious clown of a dog, who underneath his bumbling, possesses the classic Terhune-esque perfection of heart and soul and courage which separates him from the average dog.
This book was written in decidedly non-politically-correct style, but possesses the old magic that draws out the dog-crazy youngster still within me.
“Nếu anh đã bơi vượt được Đại Tây Dương thì liệu anh có còn sợ phải lội qua vũng bùn nữa không?”Và “Chỉ có tình yêu mới có thể đẩy một con chó thuần chủng vào chỗ chết.”
And that link, of love to courage, is such a priceless lesson to children today, when courage is perceived as swaggering and boasting and having big muscles, that any parent should jump to get a story that tells the real truth about courage.Indeed, GRAY DAWN is the Terhune book that, I think, most clearly talks about love as a transforming element and also as that bedrock on which all goodness rests.
Yes, Gray Dawn is a clown, and a foolish dog in many ways, but every time it comes down to what he loves, he grows one step further and does the right thing.
And Gray Dawn, like the reader, is not perfect, and that's refreshing.
This book belonged to my father when he was a boy. I found it on the shelf in his old bedroom, read it, and fell in love with the collie and his amazing, thrilling adventures. Much later, I read a review of Terhune that was most unflattering and if I were to read this as an adult, I'm sure I'd find parts that are politically incorrect and parts about dogs that are just smarmy. Still though, I remember chapter after chapter of this brave dog's escapades.
An Incredible dogI live not twenty miles from where these stories were written over eighty years ago. The home that was "The Place" has been plowed down to make way for route 17. Never before not after would such a number of grand Collies all come from one place. Though "The Place" is long gone now, it lives on in wo
Do remember this one, loved it!
Read all these as a kid. Fun to read again. Difference in language used since this was written in 1920's. Grey Dawn was one of my favorites.
These books are some of my all-time favorites.
I love all of Terhune's dog books. This book is about one of the last of the great Sunnybank collies, Gray Dawn.
