https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10967.The_Fiery_Cross
I've loved the Outlander books for a while, in spite of their fragmented nature and sometimes convoluted story lines, but this time even the most dedicated fan would notice that There is hardly any plot in it!
But then, hundreds and hundreds of pages in The Fiery Cross are dedicated to the events that have nothing to do with the main story line of it.
And another 100 pages lighter without little Jemmie pooping in a diaper or otherwise.Certainly, we, fans, have a fair amount of patience for Gabaldon's long books and a lot of love for the characters and scenes in their lives, but, come on, a novel is still a novel.
So far, the weakest book in the series.
This book dragged on and on and on...
The interesting parts were few and far between, but were just enough to keep me reading.
There were just a lot of things that didn't need to be in the book.
This is the first time reading the series that I've really felt a need for better editing.You will read this book because you're already deeply involved in the story and invested in the characters, and there's just enough in the book to keep you, but on the whole it's exhausting and a little disappointing.
I don't know if what I listened to was something from the other book or vise versa.
Jamie gets called into the army by the Governor and Roger is with him.
I thought it was stupid.
Luckily a man came and got Jamie and Bree and Claire in the nick of time to save him.
At this point I would have been thinking, the hell did I come back to this damn arse time in history.
And I'm still so happy to know that Jamie and Claire still love each other as much as they always have.
Jamie finds himself in the role of "laird" to a group of Scottish immigrants who populate his land grant known as Fraser's Ridge.I freakin' love these novels and that's why it pains me to say that I'm suffering from PTDGD (Post-Traumatic Diana Gabaldon Disorder) at the moment.
Some chapters are told in 1st person from Claire's point of view (and these are definitely the more interesting chapters, especially since you are reading about historical events from the perspective of someone who is conflicted about what knowledge she brings from the future and the dangers of revealing too much; it's easy to forget that there's a time travel element when Claire isn't narrating), but others are told in third person from other characters' perspectives.
(DON’T EVEN MISS ONE!) EVERY SMALL DETAIL AND ACTION YOU CAN HAVE YOUR CHARACTERS DO WILL MAKE YOUR NOVEL EVEN LONGER AND HOTTER AND MESSIER.
Don’t listen to the people, even your readers, who will tell you that these moments are nice every now and again, but not all the time.
5. Make sure to fit in the actual important bits towards the absolute end of the novel, after your reader has already checked out emotionally from the book and couldn’t actually give a flying saucer about any of it anymore.
Maybe so, but as I have had the books on my kindle and some of them in paperback for some time now (certainly before the glorious casting of Jamie Fraser), I feel I can join the legion of true fans, those of you who started reading this series when it was first released, many moons ago.To be honest, I am not sure where the last book finished and this one started.
I thought it stayed verra true to the book and I am sure that is what Ms Gabaldon and the fans wanted.
Okay don't judge me: aber ich glaube, dass es nie ein Outlander-Buch geben wird, welches von mir weniger als 5 Sterne bekommt 🤷🏼♀ sorry not sorry, aber ich bin einfach so ein Hardcore-Fan dieser Reihe schon seit Band 1 😍🤷🏼♀Ich hatte das Gefühl, dass dieser Band ein wenig ruhiger war als die 4 Vorgänger. Es ging etwas weniger um Krieg/Schlachten, sondern viel um Familie und zwischenmenschliche Beziehungen. Dennoch kam die Action hier keineswegs zu kurz. Meiner Meinung nach ist Gabaldon, was den S
Meiner Meinung nach ist Gabaldon, was den Spannungsverlauf angeht, eine echte Meisterin: immer wenn man anfängt zu denken "och jetzt könnte aber mal wieder was passieren" passiert irgendetwas!
Für mich ist Claire einfach die beste Protagonistin, die je der Feder eines Autors/einer Autorin entsprungen ist.
Eine herrlich clevere, charmante Frau!Neben einigen Lachern gab es für mich aber auch wieder viele Stellen an denen ich die ein oder andere Träne verdrücken musste, vor allem am Ende.
Das Ende ist dieses Mal zwar kein offensichtlicher Cliffhanger, aber es sind aus dem Laufe des Buches noch so viele Fragen offen, dass man den nächsten Band trotzdem wieder nicht erwarten kann 😱😍
I understand that letting Diana Gabaldon run wild without a heavy handed editor worked like magic in the past but there's always an exception to a rule and this would have to be it.
I read in The Outlandish Companion that Diana Gabaldon, when asked how she keeps all the details of her characters straight, said that they are like real people to her and she wouldn't forget things about someone she knew.
As a reader and fan of the Outlander and the first four books in the series I'd really like to know "What the heck happened?"

She writes fascinating accounts of history, trivia, mythology, a great love story, science fiction and people with great detail.In some places I wanted to hurry through the details and get to the heart of the story, and other places I savored every word.
That's the beauty of her writing, you have to read every word, absorb every detail because it will come back (maybe 700 pages later, but it does come back) and it has some importance.I also love the fact that she doesn't waste time with back story, she throws you right into the action where the last book left off.
Major Warning: If you have not read the four preceding books or if you have only watched the first three seasons of the television show..don't peek at this review.
Spoliers are ahead  First a confession, I haven't read this book as many times as its predecessors.
The Stephen Bonnet storyline is still going strong and Roger almost gets killed by one of his direct ancestors.
Perhaps the saving grace of the novel is that Jamie and Roger's relationship gets stronger and DG cooks up a great scene for Claire, Brianna, and the very underused Marsali.
Audio reread (at 2x). 2.5 stars.This is a long meandering book that might have a plot. It establishes the family on Fraser’s Ridge and follows them for about a year. There are medical and military related story lines, and a lot happens in 1400 pages. Some highlights:• Clare sets up a penicillin factory on the mountain.• Jamie develops a foot fetish.• Bree takes on the persona of the Professor on Gilligan's Island.• The family seems to be an unhealthy obsession about knowing who Jemmy's biologica
2.5 stars.This is a long meandering book that might have a plot.
Some highlights:•	Clare sets up a penicillin factory on the mountain.•	Jamie develops a foot fetish.•	Bree takes on the persona of the Professor on Gilligan's Island.•	The family seems to be an unhealthy obsession about knowing who Jemmy's biological father is.•	Sadly Lord John only shows up in correspondence.•	Ian mysteriously returns.•	Clare starts having hot flashes.•	Jamie turns 50 but is ok with it because he still gets morning wood.•	Then there is poor, poor Roger.
In a series of 8 books (for now) there is bound to be a stinker.
It’s not really a stinker, it’s just not as good as the rest, and probably 500 pages too long.
That being said, I love this series.
Somehow, this book is written by the same author who managed to pack an epic fantasy adventure into 800 pages with the original Outlander.
Jamie & Co. march around the woods a bit and then they go home.
Fascinating.Despite creating an ever growing cast of characters, this book focuses on the nuclear core of Jamie, Claire, Brianna and Roger.
Then there's the mystery Gabaldon seems to shoehorn in her books of late.
The second half of the book is improved over the first, especially the last 200 pages.
It takes a pretty devoted fan of the series to appreciate this book, and, even then, I'm not sure how necessary it is.
I have recently listened to the first four books in the series after having read them years earlier.
This was the first time that I have experienced this book and I was a little nervous about listening to it instead of sitting down with a book but I think it worked out well in the end.
That is really kind of normal for this series but this book has so many things going on.
I would highly recommend this book to others but I do believe that this is a series that needs to be read in order so please start with Outlander.
Had to have it in hardback because I couldn't wait for paperback and had to have my own precious copy.
Wish I had waited or borrowed it from the library.
I mean, I love to read books that don't gloss over the not-so-pretty parts of the day, but explaining that a child needs a diaper change, and it's unpleasant aroma, over and over and OVER again is ridiculous and boring.
This was a big disappointment, especially since the rest of the series is such a huge success!
Read it anyway, just to get you to the next book in the series.
This installment was no exception.....I found that this installment had so many deep emotional scenes, that when i finished, I felt that i had connected to the characters, emotionally, more then ever before.
My complaint after "Drums of Autumn" was that, while i cared about Roger and Brianna, i didnt feel as emotionally connected to them, as i did with Jamie and Claire.
In Fiery Cross, i found that the deeper exploration of the relationship between Roger and Brianna was very satisfying.
Roger especially, gave a whole new facet to the face of the family living at Fraser's Ridge.
Fraser's Ridge is a character in itself.
I think this has been my least favourite out of the series so far. I did still love it but I thought it dragged a bit whereas the previous books flew by for me. I especially enjoyed the new characters they were added, it really gave a new dynamic to the story. And seeing Jamie and Claire’s relationship evolve is truly beautiful. I still wish it had packed more of a punch though, it just wasn’t as spectacular as the other books in the series for me!
The Fiery Cross is the fifth book in a series written by Diana Gabaldon about Clare Fraser, who can travel through time by touching stones (think stonehenge).
Even though the author uses almost 1,000 pages, the story progresses less than a year through time.
Jamie continues to lead, Clare continues to freak out everyone by practicing 20th century medicine in the 18th century, Briana continues to nurse (I couldn't believe how often the author had to point that out to us readers.
In fact, I believe this book gets read solely because it is part of a series where the reader is already attached to the main characters.
Gabaldon invests much time and descriptive effort in this novel, which ties off many threads left dangling in DRUMS and introduces the reader to a plethora of new characters.
Where Gabaldon left much of the awkwardness of the Claire-Frank-Jamie triangle to small crumbs in VOYAGER, a thorough exploration takes place herein, with some interesting insight to enlighten the reader.
Told in a way only Gabaldon could, the reader is in for a long and twisted story, but never left to drift too far off the beaten path.Some have commented that this book was a turning point in the Outlander series, as it dragged on and began to derail the built momentum.
Lo cual, a mi parecer fue un cambio positivo, ya que creo que ya estaba algo traumatizada gracias a Diana Gabaldón porque todo el tiempo sentía que iba a terminar con el corazón totalmente roto, tal como me pasó con los cuatro libros anteriores 😅.De todas formas, creo que en este libro, la autora se aprovechó un tanto del cariño que los lectores tenemos por sus personajes, para hacerlo menos emocionante de lo normal, por eso no pude ponerle 5 estrellas.
And it's really hard to say what could be edited because with all of DG's books, the little things tend to come back in a big way.
I think one of the problems is a lot of the times, the family will split up....for example, Jamie will be with Roger when something happens and when they get back to Claire and Brianna, you would expect some explaining or what they might do but nope, nothing.
Sometimes I found myself going back and rereading.All in all, maybe not the best book in the series but definitely one that a lot of major things happened.
La historia no pierde cadencia, con una trama interesante, situaciones muy bien desarrolladas, personajes fascinantes, hasta los más secundarios tienen algo que contar aportando fundamento.
3. Ya van cinco libros y todavía no develan (dicen) quien es el hombre que ve Frank Randall fuera de la casa en Inverness de 1945 observando a Claire por la ventana.
(view spoiler)[El experimento con la gema “confirmo” que Jemmy es hijo de Roger y por ende puede viajar en el tiempo como Claire y Brianna.
Y por la carta de Frank al reverendo Wakefield en el cuarto libro que Roger le recita a Jamie al final.
In the fifth installment of the Outlander series, time-traveler Claire Beauchamp Randall Fraser and her eighteenth century husband, Jamie, have established their homestead on Fraser’s Ridge in the mountains of Western North Carolina.
When Governor Tryon appoints Jamie Colonel and asks he put down a forthcoming rebellion by the colonists (called Regulators) at Alamance, Jamie follows Highland tradition and calls together his fellow clansmen by burning a large cross, referred to as the Fiery Cross.
This installment addresses interesting issues of the eighteenth century, including everyday mundane activities, medicinal herbs and treatments, Highland superstitions, and a wide array of characters, savory and otherwise, made all the more intriguing by the time period.
It just seemed like I was reading so much unnecessary information.The Fiery Cross is about Brianna, Roger, and Stephen.
Then there's the details about Brianna and her freaking boobs - I was getting annoyed a lot in this book if you couldn't tell.Now don't get me wrong, I have liked (maybe loved) most of the books I've read in this series but this book was a toss up.
It should have been a much smaller book with way more interesting details.
The ending is what makes me what to read the next book - which I already know is not a small one.
It was a 50+ hour listen that I sped up 20% on fast speed using my Sansa Clip.
The story was mundane.
As a result, it seemed to drag on for an eternity save for the last 7 hours.Although I enjoyed reconnecting to the characters after about a year between this book and the previous, I was resigned to simply get through it and be done with the series.
Generally 7 hours make for an interesting stand-alone book and there was no exception here beside the fact they were at the end of the story.
Suffice to say it was interesting enough for me to want to give the series another chance and now I must continue on with the next book.Crap.
I did enjoy this book but not like the other ones. It was a bit slow but picked up towards the end. I don’t really like Roger I did feel bad about what happened to him but I like reading about Claire and Jaime then Brianna and Roger.
Great, now I'm like Gabaldon, unable to move past a Gathering, er, duck viewing....)The rest of the book didn't really improve.
That bothers me, where they can't come up with enough description and such on their own, that they have to reference another book that is so far of time period wise, even if Claire was from that time period, I just...UGH.
*throws self at stones*And then...then...the most severe of errors in the book that PISSED ME OFF ROYALLY...Jamie was bit by a 'poisonous' snake....I'll give you a second to see what was wrong there.
I have to say that it takes talent to write a book of 1,443 pages with nothing really happening.
The only thing that saved the book for me was the extremely wonderful narration.
This book was 1,000 pages too long and it could have easily been well told in 40o.
I will listen to the series again, but I will skip this book.
Compared to the first book of 800+ pages where I was afraid to blink to miss something really important...
I get that her books are magic...
The narration by Davina Porter is just fantastic.
I can't say enough good things about Davina Porter.
“I love you, a nighean donn.
I have loved ye from the moment I saw ye, I will love ye ’til time itself is done, and so long as you are by my side, I am well pleased wi’ the world.” I have to admit that this is my least favourite book out of all Outlander novels so far.
Yet, it was better than the majority of the books I have read in my life.
Outlander world has completely consumed my life and I am not complaining.
On the contrary, I am already looking forward to reading next instalment.
Bring i
I have loved ye from the moment I saw ye, I will love ye ’til time itself is done, and so long as you are by my side, I am well pleased wi’ the world.”
I have to admit that this is my least favourite book out of all Outlander novels so far.
Yet, it was better than the majority of the books I have read in my life.
Outlander world has completely consumed my life and I am not complaining.
Bring it on DG :)To read my reviews of previous books, click on pic:
I think part of this authors charm is that there is always some meandering between the important scenes, but in this book it felt like she was just going on and on about nothing, and I often found myself, thinking about other things instead of following these rantings.
I also feel that I understand Claire much better, we get to know her not only as Jamie's lover but also as a healer, a mother and a person.
She has now become my favorite person in the series.
Lastly I liked reading about life in the colonies.I hope the book six is more focused, otherwise I'll have to give up on this series.
