https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35206.Rash_mon_and_Seventeen_Other_Stories
One night I woke in the dark hours no longer able to sleep. After a while I accepted my semi-wakeful state and found my way to the sofa. There I settled under a blanket and flicked ideally through the TV channels, eventually I happened upon a film Ghost Dog, not apparently to be confused with Moondog (view spoiler)[ although to my mind ghost dogs and moondogs must be much of a muchness, no? (hide spoiler)], anyway the film seemed to be pleasing pretentious and about right for being neither aslee
Two of the stories in the collection were made in to a film, but the powers of the night which decide our sleeping have so far not decreed that I must see that film in the early hours of a star lit morning so I haven't.As it happened the film made mention of the story collection  Rashomon which seemed to be of some importance to the title character and his philosophical stance and so when it came to pass that I was gripped, not by midnight wakefulness but by mid-afternoon book madness, I ordered it from the library and in time it came to me from Gravesend, so if you are in Gravesend it will be a couple of days before it is back with you - patience!Akutagawa chronologically is approximately a contemporary of Katherine Mansfield, he also died young and was much concerned in his fiction with death and psychology, but unlike her at least based on the stories I've read, he has a broader range of story settings and is somewhat less interested in gender and romantic relationships.
The story is the death (murder?) of a man, the rape (?) of a woman and the capture of a bandit responsible (?) for both: as the story unfolds, the differences in the widely varying testimonies of the people involved force us to have a rethink on what “truth” means.I had heard about this movie a lot before actually seeing it; and it lived up to its hype and more when I finally got around to seeing it.
Note on Japanese Name Order and PronunciationAcknowledgmentsChronology & NotesIntroduction: Akutagawa Ryūnosuke: Downfall of the Chosen, by Murakami HarukiFurther ReadingTranslator's Note A World in Decay --Rashōmon--In a Bamboo Grove--The Nose--Dragon: The Old Potter's Tale--The Spider Thread--Hell Screen Under the Sword --Dr. Ogata Ryōsai: Memorandum--O-Gin--Loyalty Modern Tragicomedy --The Story of a Head That Fell Off--Green Onions--Horse Legs Akutagawa's Own Story --Daidōji Shinsuke: Th
Note on Japanese Name Order and PronunciationAcknowledgmentsChronology & NotesIntroduction: Akutagawa Ryūnosuke: Downfall of the Chosen, by Murakami HarukiFurther ReadingTranslator's Note
  A World in Decay
--Rashōmon--In a Bamboo Grove--The Nose--Dragon: The Old Potter's Tale--The Spider Thread--Hell Screen
  Under the Sword
--Dr. Ogata Ryōsai: Memorandum--O-Gin--Loyalty
  Modern Tragicomedy
--The Story of a Head That Fell Off--Green Onions--Horse Legs
  Akutagawa's Own Story
--Daidōji Shinsuke: The Early Years--The Writer's Craft--The Baby's Sickness--Death Register--The Life of a Stupid Man--Spinning GearsNotes
I think he does a good job translating Murakami's works, but here with Akutagawa, he pretty much butchers most of his early stories that take place in medieval Japan (which stories, by the way, are usually extolled as his masterpieces).
But Mr. Rubin sometimes translates conversations into highly colloquial English, and that just doesn't work with Akutagawa's early stories.The Japanese language - still today and even more so back in the day - is a very polite language, which logically makes it a very vague language as well, where curse words don't really exist and you say things in a very roundabout way.
All worth reading and in general I think this is probably a good intro to Akutagawa's work in that it contains a nice cross-section of his work from the earliest historical stories to his later primarily autobiographical stories.I personally preferred the earlier stories which ranged from tales of Samurai warriors and Shoguns and stories of religious persecution when Christianity was making inroads in Japan to satyrical stories about unfortunates with big noses.* While the settings are completely foreign to me, the characters are people I know all too well.
Akutagawa's story "The Spinning Gears" was the best of the autobiographical bunch for me.
I was Compelled to read this after loving Akira Kurosawa's classic film. Most of the stories are superb, with Akutagawa's prose full of such fluidity. He really catches you out with some beautiful quirks of description, sharp bouts of humour, and many revelations in a short space of time that it's no wonder he is considered one of Japan's greatest short-story writers.
Akutagawa known as the “Father of Japanese short stories” stays true to his designation with this collection of metaphysically refined stories.
The rendered stories: - The Grove, Yam Gruel, Rashomon, Martyr to name a few; highlights Akutagawa’s preference for macabre themes of immortality, depression, virtue, chaos and death.
These stories encompass a constant battle of skepticism prevailing over virtue of morality v/s existence of evil.
Similarly, 'Martyr' highlights the thriving soul of hypocrisy in religion and the susceptibility to strong gossip.
Akutagawa’s affinity for such themes brings out his real tumultuous relation with mental anxiety and clinical neurotic dwelling of his personal life.
DNF @ 39%These stories are not bad but I just can't muster any real enthusiasm for them.It is not helped by the stories being unconneced and by themselves not being great examples of the short story format.Of course, they were not written as short stories in the Western literary sense. It's just that the way they are written is boring me stiff.Maybe I'll pick this up again at a later date, but right now, this is not working for me.
First read in 2007In his characteristically measured, conversational introduction to this book, Murakami Haruki tells us that Akutagawa is his third favourite author in the modern (post 1868) Japanese canon (after Soseki and Tanizaki).
He called Soseki 'The Master', and worked as an editor as well as writing; the autobiographical stories in this collection demonstrate the literariness of his short life.As well as drawing on his own daily experience and mental anguish for source material (a form related to the 'I-novel' style of some of his contemporaries in Japanese literature), Akutagawa wrote stories set in the Edo period when Japan was governed by military overlords.
Like, if you want to impress someone at a cocktail party, "I didn't understand truth until I saw Rashomon," you might say.
You can win any argument by nominating Rashomon because no real people have actually seen it.Anyway, I haven't seen it.I read the book though!
Rashomon the movie was mostly based on a different story by this same guy, called "In a Bamboo Grove." I know this from reading the introduction.
Would you like to go on a date with me and I'll tell you about a pretentious movie I haven't even seen.What book do you think is the Rashomon of books?
Throughout my life I've been experiencing the strangest tendency when reading a really great literary work: after finishing a particularly brilliant passage/story/poem, I just have to put the book down for while, to stop reading it altogether as if I was afraid that this was the peak and nothing better will follow.
Naturally, this issue is a fact of life, not a bad thing in itself, but the way this volume is compiled and filled with incredibly elaborate commentary on the autobiographical element of his writing, one sort of feels like sinking into that utter darkness with the author (the most dismal posthumously published stories are ordered in the end of this compilation).
(view spoiler)[For the record, in the story Rashomon I believe the ghost, Tekehiro, is the most truthful.
I believe he incorrectly reads his wife's actions and motivations, but he was the most truthful as he understood what happened.Tekehiro’s wife, Masago, saw in Tekehiro what she interpreted as contempt in his face after she was raped.
After raping her, Tajomaru, I think, added insult to injury and tormented Masago, only increasing her distress and her certainty that her husband would despise her.
When the thief revealed his trick, she was triply humiliated - first the rape, and then her choice of deserting her husband, then in being fooled and rejected.
He seemed to have a lot going on in his mind unfortunately, but he seemed to write a lot short stories before he killed himself.
I think the three stories that stood out to me were "The Nose," "Hell Screen," and "The Life of a Stupid Man." Usually I like the title story, but not really this time around.However, I'm not really sure I fully liked Ryūnosuke Akutagawa work.
"Hell Screen" was like Kafka and "The Nose" was like Anderson.
Not sure who'd I recommend these too unless you are interested in Japanese short story fiction.
Then the servant sees something...Thereafter comes one event after another which felt like Murakami's earthquakes, with a similar ending that leaves unanswered questions.In the Introduction to the life and works of Akutagawa a Japanese literary critic, in 1917, described him (Akutagawa) as "a writer who can't write without props." I was amused by this because elsewhere in goodreads before, discussing Kafka on the Shore with a Murakami fanatic K.D., I wrote that Murakami had used a lot of juvenile, ineffective props here (like talking cats, mother and son fucking, eels falling down from the sky, etc.) which were not even original as you can see parallels from Greek mythology and even in works of Lewis Carroll.
I bought the book and told myself that I’d read it slowly, one short story at a time—and found myself caught like a fly in a spider’s web.
I ended up reading most of this book in long stretches, until my eyes hurt.
The way a person lives is what evokes criticism.”The translator, Jay Rubin, also provides useful notes on stories and their elements, which help in a better understanding of the story (especially for someone not familiar with Japan and its culture).
I would advise reading all of these, besides the stories that comprise the book: they help get a better insight into the author, and so add to the experience.
perhaps 2006?) introduction, Haruki Murakami gives us what he thinks would be Japan's 10 most important "writers of national stature".
They are writers that "left us works of the first rank that vividly reflect the mentality of the Japanese people ...
Equal #2 are: 2.Akutagawa Ryūnosuke, 2.Ōgai Mori, 4.Shimazaki To son, 5.Shiga Naoya, 6.Jun'ichirō Tanizaki, 7.Yasunari Kawabata.
He goes on to say that "Kawabata's works, to be honest, have always been a problem for me.
The last time I finished a long book this quickly was 4-5 years ago when I read Jonathan Stroud's "The Amulet of Samarkand" in one night.
I finished the 236 (268 if you count the afterwards and the notes) page behemoth of short stories and a short novella.There is something really creepy and superb in the way Ryonosuke Akutagawa writes his stories.
I have never ever read an author who put suicide notes in their stories but there's gotta be a first time (it's sad as hell so be warned).Ryonosuke did stories that included horror, cynicism, comedy, drama, realism, and of course, beauty.
Akutagawa fused he aesthetics of haiku with the psychology of Dostoevsky and other Western writers; style and form are as central to his stories as structure, psychology and characters, yet few short story writers are able to match the sheer diversity of Akutagawa’s ouvre; whether it be Gogolian fantasy in ‘The Nose’, discourses on the power of art in ‘Hell Screen’ or proto magical realism in ‘Horse Legs’, the breadth of Akutagawa’s stories in immense.The highlight of these stories is undoubtedly ‘Hell Screen’, a macabre exploration of the darker elements of artistic inspiration, as the titular character, the morose and morbid painter Yoshide, tortures others to gain inspiration for his depiction of hell.

I'm trying to work out whether I like these stories or not. They were powerful, interesting, weird and unexpected.
Contrary to my expectations, Akutagawa's eponymous story lends nothing to the concept, save its title, and it is another story from the same collection, In a Bamboo Grove, that provides the basis for the film and embodies the effect itself (intriguingly so).The collection is divided into four thematically connected sections: A World in Decay, Under the Sword, Modern Tragicomedy, Akutagawa's Own Story.
The first section contains Rashōmon and In tha Bamboo Grove and four other original, quirky tales a Western reader would easily appreciate.
I like how the stories are being told, told by a master storyteller. However, to talk about thieves, corpses, and more corpses and such morbid things doesn't appeal to me. At least, I gave it a try and came out of my literary shell :)
13th book read in 2018.Number 430 out of 673 on my all time book list.The fiction stories in this were amazing. The non fiction was meh.
Inside are heaps of dead bodies from the recent plague and a strange old woman wandering about, going through the corpses' clothes.
It's one of those "be grateful for what you have, accept who you are" type tales and not nearly as brilliant as Gogol's "The Nose" (Gogol being one of Akutagawa's influences and, frankly, a better short story writer).
"Spinning Gears" is the final story he wrote before his suicide (pills) and is about the slowly disintegrating mind of Akutagawa.
But compared to other short story writers and other Japanese writers, Akutagawa isn't nearly on their level.
Hmm, these stories are so unlike what I'm used to expecting shorts to be like.
*********************************************************I'm not sure whether to be amused or annoyed that Murakami gives Akutagawa such grudging praise in his introduction to this edition.
Couldn't the publisher find another Japanese or American author to give Akutagawa a proper tribute if this is indeed meant to attract contemporary readers?
Or is Murakami's familiarity with Akutagawa enough to make fans of his (like me) want to read stories he doesn't really care for?
Well, I read the introduction and have had my fill of this book.
But I did buy it, so I suppose that's all the publisher really cared for.
من التهاون أن يتم استحضار أسماء رواد القصة القصيرة في الأدب العالمي، من غير أن يُذكر اسم ريونوسوكي أكوتاجاوا كرائد في هذا الجنس الأدبي.
فإن كان لروسيا أن تحتفي بتشيخوف، ولإنجلترا بإدغار، ولفرنسا بموباسان، فلليابان أن تفخر كل الفخر بريونوسوكي أكوتاجاوا، كواحد من عباقرة هذا المجال.
أسلوب ريونوسوكي يتّسم بالهدوء.
صوته الروائي يشبه طنين الصمت.
فعندما يصف الجحيم البوذي، يفعلها وكأنه يصف حديقة منزله.
ويصوّر سقوط الرأس المقطوع عن الجسد، كأنه يصوّر سقوط الملعقة من على الطاولة.
يتحدّث ببساطة عن كل ما قد يقف الكاتب العادي أمامه حائرًا في الوصف، فيلجأ للإستعارات والكنايات.
ولكن ريونوسكي، المتسامح مع القلم، لا يفعلها كذلك.
بل يفعلها بطريقة بسيطة للغاية، هكذا، كساحر.
I can't recommend this collection highly enough.
I had previously read In a Bamboo Grove and thought the story masterful, but to discover the other works in this collection has been a journey of discovery.
Akutagawa's range and depth is highly skilled; I loved the stories which combined the supernatural with social commentary.
Favourites included the classic Rashomon, the bizarre afterlife of Horse Legs, the tragic ending of Spinning Gears and the incredible opening of The Story of a Head that Fell Off. These stories are incredible, and added to this are the excellent translation, introduction by Haruki Murakami and the extensive end notes.
I'm really loving the Penguin Classics short story collections.
It's the following story in the collection, "In a Bamboo Grove," that Kurosawa based his masterpiece on.
(The title story "Rashomon," which precedes "Bamboo Grove" is one blackest stories I've ever read.) It's one of those rare instances where the movie is better than the story it's based on.
It turns out Akutagawa is not Murakami's favorite modern Japanese writer, though he greatly admires him.
In a number of these stories the reader will pick up, uncomfortably, with this writer's obsession with madness.
"Hell Screen" may be the best story in the collection.
Definitely a collection worth reading, just don't come to it thinking the "Rashomon" of the movie is to be found in similar form.
A must-read for anyone wanting to understand Japanese history, culture, and literature. Highly recommended.
I resolved to seek out more Akutagawa, so I was delighted when I chanced on this Penguin Classics volume containing eighteen of his tales.It’s a retrospective of his entire life’s work (he died when he was only thirty five) and divided into four sections.The first section is devoted to his early stories.
The last story reads almost like a profoundly literary suicide note, and in fact Akutagawa did take his own life before it was published.Nine of the stories in this volume are published in English for the first time here; and the book contains a perceptive and lengthy introduction by Haruki Murakami together with a chronology and extensive notes.
