https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2398995.Fortunes_of_Richard_Mahony
Cry Me a RiverI don't think I have ever cried so hard and so long as when I arrived at the end of th
She is Australia's Melville, having written a quasi-symbolic novel about her young nation's growth and, more importantly, its flaws.
Sadly, Richardson's major novel is not as great as that by those men and women, but 'Richard Mahony' is, I'm fairly sure, unique in world literature.
'Australia Felix' is a standard, enjoyable realist tale of a young migrant, who wins a wife, makes some money, and decides to return home.
More importantly, Richardson begins the book in a fairly bland, realistic style, but as Mahony becomes more and more unstable, the strong third person narrator loses its grip.
I read this book shortly after the birth of my second child (who turns 29 in about six weeks time). It was on the syllabus for a university course I was doing at the time. My enduring memory is sitting in bed at 2.00 am, reading while feeding the baby, with my tears falling onto his head. And then, continuing to read, well after the baby was asleep again, because I couldn't put it down. An epic book.
This is mainly due to the character of Richard Mahony and his self-induced tribulations, and the intimate details of his marriage to Polly (later known as Mary).
(Though I think this holds up against European novels set in the 19th Century, is in fact much more accessible than many of them.) I had, for example, never thought very much about the way the gold rush messed up the class system for those who clung to it, fresh from the old country, and what that meant, how confusing it could be for them.
Fantastic epic of what it means to be human, by following the life of a man and a marriage, with all the foibles of humanity and love and weakness and fear, but the memory is love. A rereading of a favourite.
A soul's slow, slow descent. I remember the trauma.
Beyond brilliant. Without peer.
This was a difficult one to rate.
For most of the book (nearly 90% of it, according to my Kindle) I was ready to give up at any moment.
I was going to give it a two-star rating.
Not one star, because even in the depths of its interminably meandering middle, it had clear literary merit.
But god, it was so BORING.
In the chronicle of the lives of Richard and Mary Mahony, it felt as though the author left not a single day undescribed.
And then, towards the end, it suddenly became not only interesting but heart-rending.

I can see why this book was a classic, but I found it too long. I disengaged several times. The strength of thos book to me, was the characters. They really evoked strong emotions ranging from sympathy and affection to disgust and annoyance, often about the same character in the same chapter.
LOVED this book. Absolutely unputdownable
Whew! Amazing!
What makes me want to give it 5/5 is the incredible, central portrait of a marriage, in-depth and life-long, showing two completely believable natures and how they unite then drift apart, so that, when you're reading the part that alternates POV sections (done in 3rd person but pov), you believe this person is totally write, a living, breathing person, reasonable and feeling, and the other is a selfish monster, of each person, as you read it in turn: how can one person manage to write that, to inhabit both and make both fully real?
Given its length, inevitably it is uneven and lags a bit in places, but - the third and final book, in particular, is unbelievably moving, displaying a piercing insight into married life and familial relationships. I wept at the end.
One of the most enjoyable books I have ever read, and easily the best Australian book. I continue to be amazed that this is not more well known and recognised as one of the best examples of Australian fiction. I read it as a three volume set and couldn't put it down.Highly recommended.
A perfect descritive book of early Australian life.
One of my favourites, always ready to read again.

‘The Fortunes of Richard Mahony is a masterpiece, a great novel. Reading it was one of the most fulfilling literary experiences I’ve ever had.’Angela Meyer, LiteraryMinded‘More than any other novel in our literature, more than Voss, The Fortunes of Richard Mahony deserves the accolade of the Great Australian Novel… it is a mighty and moving work, this bursting at the seams anti-epic to the muse of a vanity which sees every golden bowl broken and every silver cord loosed.’Peter Craven
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive list: Family and SelfSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time.
