https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50850.The_Unpleasant_Profession_of_Jonathan_Hoag
A solid collection of early Heinlein short work.All You Zombies is THE going back in time book, the Velvet Elvis of that sub-genre.And He Built a Crooked House is classic SF, told by a grandmaster, flipping it upside down, reversing the strings and playing it left-handed.The title story --- eh ---, well told and fun to read, but we may see a very early foreshadowing of weird 70s Bob Heinlein.Heinlein fans need to have read or have on the list and this would probably be a good introduction to his works without reading a full novel.
This book could reasonably have been called Collected Paranoid Tales of Robert Heinlein. Most of them are satisfyingly creepy, and it's hard to get them out of your head. Anyone who's got even the tiniest trace of paranoia ought to read They. (You haven't come across it? Interesting. Do you think that's just pure chance?) All You Zombies is in some ways still the ultimate go-back-in-time-and-meet-yourself story. And if you figure out what Jonathan Hoag's unpleasant profession is before he tells you, you're good at this kind of thing...
Six stories from Robert Heinlein, all dating from the 40s and 50s.One, The Unpleasant Profession of Jonathan Hoeg, takes up half the book and should properly be called a novella.
The other 5 are short stories.
Short stories usually don't allow for much character building, but Heinlein does well, especially in the novella, where the relationship between husband and wife is sensitively drawn.
Mostly though this is spec fic and relies on ideas to carry the stories rather than characters.
Over all, a bunch of interesting stories from a master of the genre.
I can't say much about the other stories, but the title story has remained with me since I finally tracked the book down years ago.
I had read about the story in Zizek's LOOKING AWRY.
The excerpt and the Zizek described it gave me chills.
I had trouble finding a copy and when I finally did I unwrapped the book and sat on my porch and didn't move until I had finished.
It's only 75-100 pages ( ican't quite remember) The effect, on the other hand, has remained with me and still I watch people going into buildings with a different feeling about who they are and what I project onto them.
Heinlein's Norah is the voice of reason as her brain dead husband ignores everything and acts like a buffoon for the duration of their investigation in to what exactly it is that the rather unpleasant Mr Hoag gets up to during daylight hours.There are some other stories in the collection, most notably the excellent All You Zombies which was recently turned in to the very nice low fi Australian science fiction movie Predestination.
Largely it's from the fantastical end of Heinlein oeuvre which would explain my lower than anticapted enthusiasm for the book.
3.5 stars. Good early collection of Heinlein stories. The title story is different from just about everything else Heinlein wrote and is worth reading for that alone. "All You Zombies" is a lot of fun as well.
Or a comic book!"Unfortunately, it's a bit long for what it is.
Strange things happen repeatedly, and the characters puzzle over it for too long.
There's also the typical Heinlein joking about, which creates plenty of filler.Eventually, it develops and ends as one of those strange old fantastic yarns that paranoiacs and cultists thrive on - it doesn't answer questions in a satisfying way.
It's just weird.It's not a bad story - it's quite entertaining at times - but it's too long and ultimately doesn't do much with the time it has taken to build a world and framework.
Sort of weird (remember, "i" before "e" except after "c", weird?) little book with more off beat stories than we're used to from Heinlein.There are 3 stories here that are overtly fantasy...not as usual as science fiction for Heinlein (see Glory Road). We've also got science fiction and one undisguised political tale. Another book I read back in the 70s I believe.
Specialization is for insects.Of course, the problem with that quote, which is the underlying philosophy of all the characters in his juveniles, is that it comes from his book Time Enough For Love, when, frankly, Heinlein had completely fallen off his typewriter and disappeared up his own verbiage as some sort of free-love guru who liked big guns and springy nipples.
The later books, when Heinlein's fame and an overly permissive editor allowed him to write for as long as he wanted, are, quite simply, embarrassingly bad.
Imagine the bloat of the later Harry Potter novels but with bad sex and women who only ever say, 'Yes.' But then...
"-All You Zombies-" is a twisted time travel story about a man who offers another the chance to have revenge upon the one he believes ruined his life."They" is about a man who seems to suffer from the solipsistic delusion that he is the only real person and everything else is an elaborate facade enacted for reasons he's yet to uncover.
I read this a few years ago in a horror anthology.
A newspaper columnist teams up with a sentient whirlwind to bring down the corrupt local authority."-And He Built a Crooked House-" explores the perils and pitfalls of owning a four-dimensional home.I'm still fairly new to the work of Heinlein at this point, but I really enjoyed these stories and look forward to continuing.
Fantastic collection! Includes the novella "The Unpleasant Profession of Jonathan Hoag," and the five short stories "The Man Who Traveled in Elephants," "All You Zombies," "They," "Our Fair City," and "And He Built a Crooked House." This book is a great introduction for anyone looking to get a taste of Heinlein without trudging through some of his denser material.
I really loved the opening novella, which is a mix of science fiction, fantasy, horror--and noir mystery.
I'm not particularly impressed with the story's premise or plot, but the characters made it for me.
"The Man Who Traveled in Elephants" is a sweet tale, and pure fantasy, not science fiction, but not to me a standout.
"All You Zombies" is about a "temporal agent"--it's a twisty and memorable time travel story.
All of these stories are well worth the read--particularly if you're a science fiction or Heinlein fan.
Hard to describe much of this without giving the story away.
I really loved the husband and wife private eye team, batting quips back and forth whilst being awfully plucky and determined as they do their job and make the most of each other's strengths.
They feel cool, professional and loving.
This just increases the sense of genuine threat, which soon ramps up while they investigate the daytime whereabouts of the titular Mr Hoag.
The fear they feel is very effective and you'll never look at a mirror in quite the same way again.
SPOILER WARNINGEventually, the truth comes out.
This isn't one of my favorite Heinlein novels. Most of the elements are there, but it comes off as a horror story through most of the novel. It's dark. It's depressing. Normally, through hair-raising trouble, you wish you were there fighting along his gallant heroes, finding changes to sneak off with his heroines. In this story, you want to stay well-away. There's nothing wrong with that per se, but I don't love it like I love most of the others.
This is a brilliant book with a scary concept at its core. I meant to do some housework on this first day of vacation but I could not stop reading this. It is beautifully written, too. I have to read more Heinlein. A warning: buy from Amazon, not from iBooks. iBooks is twice the price for the same edition but it does have nicer page numbering formats.
This is a collection of short stories. The title story is one of the most hair-curling stories I've ever read.
A finely wrote short story.
This was a rather unusual, imaginative novella—or long short story—I would categorize as supernatural.The story centers on a married couple, who are detectives for hire, and a disturbed society-loving man, named Jonathan Hoag.
Hoag has a job .
Each evening, his normal awareness "awakens" to attend social functions, but he is unable to remember what he did during the day.
He hires the couple to follow him, to find out what he does with the time he cannot remember.
The case turns into something the detectives could never have imagined, and changes their lives.The story was written in the 60's and may not appeal to everyone.
Cross the Thin Man with a bit of Chuthulu and you have a peak at this book. Heinlein is weirder that most people think.
As reported in "The Science Fiction Encyclopedia," Heinlein was the guest of honor at three World SF Conventions, received the first Grand Master Nebula Award, and was selected "best all-time author" in many readers' polls.
Heinlein." The collection kicks off with the longest tale of the bunch, "The Unpleasant Profession of Jonathan Hoag" (which first appeared in "Unknown Worlds"; 10/42).
Amazon readers who wish to see additional comments on this book are urged to look under the original title.) Next up is a short tale called "The Man Who Traveled In Elephants" ("Saturn"; 10/57), supposedly one of Heinlein's favorites.
The Unpleasant Profession of Jonathan Hoag is a novella by Robert A. Heinlein. It was originally published in the October 1942 edition of Unknown Worlds magazine under the pseudonym of "John Riverside". It also lends its title to a collection of Heinlein's short stories published in 1959.This 1942 work is an eerie precursor to PKD.

An excellent Heinlein, who proves that he can master other genres than science fiction.
The book is mainly a thriller, with some supernatural tension in it as well.Jonathan Hoag hires a married couple of private detectives to help him find out what he does during the daytime.
Every morning when Hoag leaves his appartment, his next memory is of himself coming home at night.
The plot thickens when a secret society of people who travel through mirrors tries to scare the detectives out of persuing their investigation.Well written, with good dialogues, this book build up to a great unexpected climax.
"The Unpleasant Profession of Jonathan Hoag" (1942, 1959) is a very intriguing yet bizarre novella written by legendary sci-fi author Robert A Heinlein. Jonathan Hoag retains the services of husband/wife private detectives Ted and Cynthia Randall. Their charge: Find out what Hoag does for a living during the day because he doesn’t remember. What ensues is an odd story with religious and science fiction elements. The reader will appreciate the strong female co-lead character, a concept ahead of its time but the story gets bogged down in exposition toward the end. Still, recommended.
My favorite of the batch was the endcap AND HE BUILT A CROOKED HOUSE. A fantastic balance of humor and math and storytelling. The portrayal of architects being crazy and fixated on designing the impossible is completely accurate.ALL YOU ZOMBIES remains the bizarre time-traveling self love story that I remember. The remainder are not what I was expecting, but absolutely worth your time.
One of the better Heinlein stories I've read.
Great rec Alexis! I love Heinlein and I loved the couple in this story.
Title story starts classic, ends up overcooked. Other stories like "Crooked House" are fantastic short fiction at its best.
Best just to read it, without knowing what to expect.
Originally published in the pulp magazine Unknown Worlds, in October of 1942, under one of Heinlein’s pseudonyms, John Riverside.It starts promisingly enough:“Is it blood, doctor?” Jonathan Hoag moistened his lips with his tongue and leaned forward in the chair, trying to see what was written on the slip of paper the medico held.Dr. Potbury brought the slip of paper closer to his vest and looked at Hoag over his spectacles.
Edward and Cynthia (Craig) Randall are well experienced in everyday investigations; after some debate they agree to take on Mr. Hoag’s case, and the plot immediately thickens.Up to this point the story is engaging and very nicely written; the mood is very 1940′s noir; we’ve all been there before, and we look forward with anticipation to the next logical step.
