https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199531.Daisy_Fay_and_the_Miracle_Man
Fannie Flagg is a brilliantly funny, authentic writer. If you ever read "Fried Green Tomatoes At the Whistle Stop Cafe" or saw the movie, you will surely like this one too.It is a highly entertaining account of the formative years of a very down to earth girl growing up in Coastal Mississippi in the 50's. Great characterization! The writing style is unique and is as though Daisy were simply have a conversation with you. Most enjoyable. Give it a try!
I did enjoy the end of the book more than the beginning, but it was hard for me to want to keep going through this. I have to admit that I like Ms. Flagg's later books much better!
Un affresco divertente, ma di certo non idilliaco, della piccola provincia del Sud degli Stati Uniti negli anni '50, narrato da una ragazzina, Daisy Fay Harper, nel suo diario, a partire dagli undici anni fino ai diciotto.
Vengono affrontati numerosi temi - la discriminazione dei neri, l'alcolismo, i finti predicatori e vari tipi di truffe, le associazioni femminili che cercavano di educare le figlie dell'America con una moralità finto-puritana, la violenza domestica e l'incesto, ecc.
(hide spoiler)]
This is one of my favorite books. It is so fun to read and fun to review. It is fun to see the adult world in this way through the eyes of an optimistic child. The story takes place during the 1950s in the South. The antics of Daisy Fay are heart-warming, crazy and at times side-splitting hilarious. I would recommend this book for everyone to enjoy.
One easily comes to love Daisy Fay, who takes her circumstances as a matter of course and does not let her reality get in the way of her adventure.
Fannie Flagg writes a novel that clearly indicates the damaging aspects of Daisy Fay's father's alcoholism, but also presents the miracle of his imagination and spirit.
I quickly fell in love with Daisy Fay when reading this novel.
By the time I finished the novel, I was also in love with Fannie Flagg, her writing, her wit, her humor and her perspective on life.

La storia di una bambina che pian piano diventa donna, che affronta la vita con leggerezza pur vivendola nelle sue sfumature più tragiche.
La Daisy Fay intelligente e birichina delle prime pagine lascia a poco poco il posto alla Daisy Fay più donna e matura delle ultime pagine.
Suo padre all'inizio è presente e insieme fanno tante cose quando cresce però è assente e viene nominato poco, quelle poche volte che lo vede mentre sua madre è sempre nei suoi pensieri.
Mi è piaciuto molto il personaggio di Jimmy Snow, amico di Bill suo padre, che si prende cura di lei soprattutto durante l'adolescenza.
This is Flagg's first book, written in a diary format of an 11-year-old girl who grows up in Mississippi spanning until she is 16 years old.
There's little plot in the book, rather it's a series of anecdotes about growing up in the South in the 1950s.
I used to teach 4th grade and read it aloud (I edited out about 100 pages of PG-13 content) to my students, but though I had read it about a dozen times previously, found myself unable to read it aloud because I was laughing so hard.
As previously mentioned, there is some PG-13 content, and the book isn't without sadness.
I liked the first 100 pages of this book and really appreciated the fresh, funny voice of the 11-year-old narrator. She seemed like the embodiment of that age as I remember it. I eventually tired of the story though and honestly didn't think a lot of the things that happened to her were funny.
Podréis leer sobre el Sur de los Estados Unidos y un magnífico estudio sociológico de personajes y situaciones de esos años.
Por desgracia, Fannie Flag es una autora a la que en España no se le ha dado nunca importancia (a pesar de su famosa obra "Tomates verdes fritos").
Buscad el libro en bibliotecas o librerías de segunda mano, ya que por desgracia, está descatalogado.
He reído a mandíbula batiente, he llorado a moco tendido y desde luego que este será uno de esos libros de relectura, de los que te dejan con una sonrisa en el alma al acabarlos.
It’s narrative voice is that of an eleven-year old girl from Jackson, Mississippi who is watching her parents struggle through a nasty break up and separation, her father addiction to alcohol, her mother’s inevitable abandonment of the family, and the mistakes of a myriad of other adults who should be stabilizing influences in her young life.
Her father’s drunken behavior, the death of her mother after an “unnatural separation” for years from her child, the bitterness of her extended family, the racist pathologies surrounding her poor white community would all pulled her down if not for her sense of loyalty, humor, and eccentric pluckiness.
Daisy Fay’s daddy is a drunk but she stands by him through thick and thin, he isn’t a mean drunk so that’s ok LOL.It is so fun to read about her discovering life especially since this book is set in the 50’s.One of my favorite scenes is when they are living in Shell Beach and Daisy likes to sneak in and watch the entertainment at the local Blue Gardenia Lounge like the one-legged tap dancer and Ray Layne the young singer but the one she is so looking forward to is a real dancer from New Orleans named Tawny the Tasseled lady and her reaction to that was “She isn’t even a real dancer!” “All she does is spin them tassels one way then the other and shake around” I laughed so hard picturing this!Not only is Daisy a great character but everyone else is this book is too from her bingo addicted grandma, to her daddy’s best friend Jimmy Snow who is a crop duster but seems to crash his plane a lot!
Daisy Fay and the Miracle Man is a coming-of-age story set in Mississippi in the 1950s.
The story is told in diary entries (which I love) and follows Daisy from age 11 until after she finishes high school.
There are all kinds of interesting characters involved including a crippled girl, a man with elphantiasis, an albino woman, Daisy's best friend Pickle, and Daisy's arch-nemesis, Kay Bob Benson.Fannie Flagg manages to incorporate so many of life's complex issues into the story that it really adds depth and meaning to the experiences of the characters.
The author weaves in issues such as race, abuse, and homosexuality applicable to the time period and location.
We meet Daisy Fay Harper when she is eleven years old, and we follow her transformation from girl to woman through the pages of her diary.
I love this book; every time I read it I laugh out loud.
The Haunted House scene in Part I is priceless, as is the Miss Mississippi beauty pageant in Part 2.But life is not all candy corn and roses for Daisy Fay. She has to come to terms with some very adult issues over the years, and all of these are handled with delicate skill by the author and Daisy herself.
Anyone who enjoyed Fannie Flagg's Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe would also enjoy this book.

I have read several of Fannie Flagg's books and thought some were better than others.
She says that the preacher should have known better than to try to forge Jesus' signature.Flagg's next book was "Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Café, published six years later in 1987.
It was made into a movie and is the book for which Flagg is best known as an author.
When we first meet him he is working at a projectionist in a movie theater and later on owns some small businesses.
Flagg's father was a small-business owner and a projectionist.
It's written kind of like a journal, but with many more details than a regular diary.Through all her ups and downs, Daisy had people who loved her everywhere she went.
And the few people that really couldn't stand her, like Roy Grimmett, Kay Bob Benson, and Claude Pistal, just couldn't understand how someone with so little could be so happy.
Daisy Fay Harper made up for what she didn't have materially with her kind heart, her faith in herself and the people she loved, and her larger than life personality.
I've read almost all of Flagg's other books and saw this one on a list of best Southern books, so I had to give it a shot.
If you've had kids, especially girls, in the past 10 years, you might have read some Junie B.
Daisy Fay could well have been Junie B.
While I really enjoyed reading Junie B.
Jones books with my girls, Daisy Fay was written much more over the top.
I enjoyed the story of Daisy Fay's life and was disappointed with where it ended, and actually, how it ended.
I have never read a book as brilliantly funny as Daisy Faye.
Whenever someone I love needs some cheering up I buy them this book and can't wait for them to read it so I can laugh with them about it.
Her disarming sixth grader stream of consciousness prose was so refreshingly different from anything I have ever read.
Daisy Fay is irreverently, accidentally funny in her description of her "white trash" life in her formative years.
It's so fun and refreshing to laugh like this alongside a funny sixth grader when most comedies (and jokes for that matter) today are crude, overly sexual and lacking in imagination.
Hilarious!
This book is funny all the way through and one short chapter had me rolling.
Deftly written from the perspective of an 11-year-old girl, who ages in the book 7 years, from 1952-1959.
It's hard to write humor, folks, and this is splendid.
It was a joy to read and I hated that it ended.
I've read other books by this author, not all of her writings, and this one stands out for me.
This is the author of Fried Green Tomatoes that was made into a movie.
This book would also make a great movie.
Haaaaaated it!
I don't understand the inspiration behind this book (or, shall I say, the lack thereof?) For starters, what would possess a person to write a book about "white trash" in the first place?
Secondly, why do her critics call it "side-splittingly funny" and "sheer, unbeatable entertainment"?
I didn't miss the attempted humor...I just found this book to be morally degrading and not all that funny.
Some parts caused me to wonder why on earth someone would send this book to print and not be embarrassed.
I'm very disappointed in Fannie Flagg, as her other books I have read were great.
Loved it. Did some laughing, enjoyed some characters and finally gave myself an excuse not to giggle uncontrollably or mutter the words "oh, I thought that had cleared up" whenever I hear the words Fannie Flagg.
Not my favorite Fannie Flagg book but a fun easy read.
Daisy Fay's father was a ne'er-d0-well, skirt-chasing alcoholic who couldn't hold a job, but he did always take care of his daughter.
Luckily for Daisy Fay, she did find several adults who took a healthy interest in her and tried to help her become all she could be.
The story is set in 1950's Mississippi, so there are some real racial overtones to add authenticity.This is one of Fannie Flagg's early books and I think her writing, with the exception of "The Whole Town's Talking" has improved over the years.
I had a few nights when I got little sleep because I had to read "just one more day", which it never was.
I had a few days when I was a little late to work because I had to read "just one more day", which it never was.
I recommend this book to anyone who grew up in the South, to anyone who likes to laugh, to any female, to anyone who grew up and realized that their mother gave a false explanation.
When Daisy Fay shared her mother's explanation for a Kotex, I thought, "That sounds like something my mother would have told me!"
Il diario di Daisy, simpaticissima undicenne americana, ci accompagna per mano nella provincia statunitense degli anni ’50 con una semplicità di linguaggio quasi disarmante anche dinanzi agli argomenti più crudi.Con la stessa leggerezza si parla, infatti, di discriminazioni razziali, sessuali, drammi famigliari ed espedienti più o meno leciti per cercare guadagni e successo.Forse non il migliore dei libri della Flagg sinora letti, ma comunque sempre piacevole e ricco di quella profonda ironia e umanità che ho apprezzato nei suoi racconti. Con il sorriso sempre in agguato.
No. I hated the way this was written. I enjoy Flagg usually for what she does but this story was just a string of sentences thrown together. Try another first.PS. I just read where this is her first book... she gets better
I generally don’t enjoy reading from the perspective of a child. I read half the book 320 pages total) before it clicked. After that, I couldn’t put it down. I recommend this book as a relaxing and funny story with fantastic characters. You will enjoy it.
Con tratti ironici, taglienti e graffianti Daisy ci racconta la sua vita con un padre alcolizzato, la madre che alla fine scappa perchè non ce la fa più a stare con un uomo che rovina tutto ciò che costruisce e che dopo poco tempo lascia un vuoto incolmabile nella vita della ragazza perchè muore di cancro, ha un'amica Pickle che ha un padre prete battista che la punisce spesso picchiandola, ha il migliore amico di suo padre Jimmy Snow che è compagno di bevute che si prende cura di lei e le vuole un gran bene, c'è l'eterna rivale Kay Bob Benson dove Daisy fallisce lei puntualmente eccelle e poi ci sono tanti tanti altri personaggi che costellano le sue storie quotidiane, mai ovvi, particolari, stravaganti e originali.
This book was written as a diary so there was some humor but most of it was because of Daisy Fay's ignorance.
The Miracle Man wasn't introduced until at least half way through the book and his character really didn't seem to have that big of a part.
I was hoping that the Miracle Man would come back and save Daisy Fay at the end but he didn't.
I didn't enjoy the sentiment that Flagg tried to establish with other characters that loved Daisy Fay. In addition to the unlikeable characters a major issue I had with the writing was the author's use of the "r" word several times.
