https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121291.Robbers_Roost
Wal, Pard, Another good book to read when yo're out on the trail.
In the secluded canyons of Robber's Roost, Jim Wales makes an effort to rescue the kidnapped Helen Herrick in the midst of fighting between two rival gangs. Written in the romantic style of the 1930s.
A regular Zane Grey novelLead character joins band of thieves meets brother and sister leaves with gang of baddies falls in love with sister has battle with another gang after girl gang on both sides get killed shoots main baddie saves girl returns her home gets girl story ends with all forgiven gets girl the end
Robbers RoostThis book was very in depth and very intense at times. It is full of raw emotions. Zane is a great story teller. Like Louis L’Amour his heroes are larger than life and have character.
A western love storyJim wall a cattle rustler and bank hank hays robber battles for Helen at star ranch in utah. For ransom and for cattle stealing, very boring western, not a lot of action just a ok story.
Entertaining. it's been a long time since I read a western. turns out they're pretty fun!
Good Zane Grey western.
Can there be anything better than reading Zane Grey around the campfire while camping at the Grand Canyon?
Yes, this is a typical formulaic western by Grey, set in the American Southwest (near the Dirty Devil River in SE Utah).
Loner cowboy with a vague and shady past meets beautiful woman new to the west and vulnerable.
Cowboy saves the day, falls in love, overcomes tremendous odds brought by nature and evil men, kills a few bad guys and demonstrates outstanding shooting skills, and still has to be convinced by fair maiden that he is the worthy recipient of her undying love.
My new guilty pleasure is Zane Grey. It's pretty guilty, and it's pretty good. This is one of my new favorites, maybe because the damsel is British? And the characters are good in this one--even the bad dudes are well drawn.
Outstanding!In true Zane Grey style, you feel like you can see the scenery up close and personal. His description of the characters is remarkable so I felt like I knew them personally.
A little too much hillbilly English, but otherwise a pretty good western.
