https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/667.Anthem
I cannot believe I just realized now I did not have this book marked as read!
I read this back in high school and loved it!For those thinking about trying Ayn Rand, this is a good intro book considering it is only a little over 100 pages and her other popular titles (mainly talking about Atlas Shrugged and The Fountainhead) are quite daunting in their length.Now, in the past I have had trouble reviewing Ayn Rand because she is controversial.
Usually this leads to people not being able to separate a review of a book from a political statement.
So I can relate and completely understand the events described in the book, where the word “I” doesn’t exist, when it is a shame to stand out and be different from the rest.
We struggle to stand up and not to get under the influence of the media propaganda and continue to act with the high integrity and high morals no matter what.This book is about the man, who stands out on his own and is not afraid to position himself against everyone else just to rediscover his “I”.My favorite quotes:"My hands...My spirit...My sky...My forest".
I am the meaning" Many words have been granted me,...but only three are holy: "I will it!" "I am a man.
. This god, this one word: 'I' "...man will go on.
a long day at work with a lot of that work left unfinished+ happy hour drinks with colleagues, no they're more than that, with friends+ I have to get around to reviewing a book by mutterfookin' AYN RAND of all things=DRUNK ЯEVIEW #?so I've been on a hiring spree lately, just hiring people left and right because yay my work is actually getting multiple contracts and that means we can actually hire people instead of everyone doing two jobs per usual nonprofit social services type staffing patterns, so anyway I hired this one young lady who is clearly super smart and super organized and super perfect for the job I hired her for, good job mark, yet again, but she is 21 and so I wonder sometimes if her big brain is the tail wagging the 21 year old, who is very, very much 21 years of age, or at least what I remember of myself when I was 21.
I read this in high school when I was reading a lot of dystopian future literature and thought it was by far the worst of the lot.
I don't think you really need to come up with some faux cerebral excuse to justify selfishness; if you're going to be self-centered your actions are ultimately justified by your own selfish inner drives, not your intellect.
At best Rand was a shrewd self-marketed Cold War personality.
At worst she's cynical, petty, pedantic, and most unforgivable of all, _boring_.
The baby version of Ayn Rand philosophy, heavy handed, unimaginative, and unfortunately assigned to my son for high school reading.
I struggle with Ayn Rand because I agree with some of her points and I vehemently disagree with others.
It is really stunning to think of the millions of copies of this book that have been sold.
I would say skip it, but if your child is assigned to read it please do read it.
I'm a firm believer that parents should read any book their child is assigned in school to read.
The real tragedy of this book is that the billions of copies that have been printed could have been more appropriately used to build homes for people in third world countries.
This book could not be more self indulgent if it came with a bottle of Absynthe and a membership to MENSA.
Not only is it impossibly boring to read, the characters are so one dimensional that they put V.C. Andrews to shame.
Do yourself a favor: set this on fire and use the fourteen hours that it burns to read Martin's Song of Ice and Fire series instead.
Definitely the only book by Ayn Rand I will ever need to read, unless I happen to be reincarnated as an asshole. When people start modeling their book covers after Mussolini-era Italian architecture, worry.
Neither a science-fiction masterpiece, nor a futuristic predicament, ANTHEM is a personal reaction to the collectivist system, dominant in Soviet Union and its modernized colonies for more than seven decades.
Assumed too much reactionary by leftist intellectuals for rather a long time, it depicts the apocalyptic chaos in a world ruled by collectivist thoughts in the same way that Orwell’s 1984 builds it (for instance, you can think of a world after a nuclear crisis and then come to the meaning of nothingness).
But forgetting all about suspense and action, it defines what it means to forget individuals for the sake of a system.
I either get tired of self-indulgent prose and put it down or I start reading it out loud and I can't take it seriously (a friend and I did this to pass the time while waiting for a bus once.) The character thinks in short, declarative sentences that seem to rely on the reader seeing his struggle as novel and impactful.
Mocking, Childish Review The ending, with the Statue of Liberty emerging from the beach, was a nice twist. "You maniacs! You blew it up! Ah, damn you! God damn you all to hell!" As it turns out, it was Earth all along.And, yes, for those keeping score at home, I do intend to use this exact same review for every dystopian novel I read. At least I amuse myself and, really, isn't that what matters most? Slightly Less Childish Review Look, I fully appreciate how Ayn Rand and her family suffered at
But honor is a thing to be earned.Aside from plus-sized, pain-killer-addicted Republican talk-radio hosts and octogenarian former Federal Reserve chairmen, who takes this horseshit seriously at this late date?OK, in addition to the aforementioned, I guess there's one other group of readers for Rand's novels even in the 21st century: self-centered, bookish teenagers seeking affirmation for their assumptions that they alone are individuals, they alone have it all figured out, they alone understand how the world really works, and everyone else is a mindless conformist.
Being relatively short I had nothing to lose, unfortunately by the time I reached the last page, put the book down on the table, went to make a coffee, before gazing out the window, Anthem had already started it's super quick journey of escaping my thoughts, scampering off to the nearest forest.So then, this is some sort of stupid future, where all sense of the individual is annihilated in deference to the collective state and each man’s role in that society is assigned to him.
I wished to know the meaning of things.
I need no warrant for being, and no word of sanction upon my being.
For I know what happiness is possible to me on earth.
My happiness is not the means to any end.
Neither am I the means to any end others may wish to accomplish.
I guard my treasures: my thought, my will, my freedom.
And to earn my love, my brothers must do more than to have been born.
Compared to the voluminous Atlas Shrugged and The Fountainhead, Anthem is a chapter. But Rand may have been better adapted to writing shorter fiction because this one packs a lean, economical and hungry punch. Dystopian but told like a fable, this is a serious work that works on multiple levels. Very good.Of the three works, I liked them in this order:The FountainheadAnthemAtlas Shrugged
Of all the dystopian novels I have read, this one felt like one of the least inspired. The characters are one-dimensional, the story lacks context altogether, and is entirely made to support Rand's liberal philosophies. Sure, it's really short--so is Animal Farm, but that is a story with depth. Ironically, they both claim to be about Soviet Russia--or at least the author's experience with such. I hope I can claim that my reasoning for disliking this book has more to do with its content, and less to do with the Ayn Rand's complete and utter ignorance.
Ayn Rand was the most overrated writer (I can't even call her a philosopher) of the 20th century, and a great gaping asshole to boot. This book is yet another to support those facts.
A truly interesting read, Ayn Rand's book holds a captivating narrative.
But as I watched the character swerve from the absolute collective to an absolute, egocentric conclusion, I ended up pitying the hero and his hapless companion for stumbling upon the wrong conclusion upon which they would base the rest of their existence.
All I could see was that for all the hero's self realization, his mate was merely a follower and a worshiper of his fantastic, glowing sacred "I".
I am sorry to say Ayn Rand started with a great idea of individualism and ended in the trainwreck of selfish isolation.
ANTHEM by Ayn Rand is a novel set in a far-off post apocalyptic future, in a world where technology has been relegated into the land of myth and fancy.
It is not until they (he) comes across Liberty 5-3000, renamed the Golden One, that Equality 7-2521 begins to think outside of the proverbial collective box.
Later, when Equality 7-2521 discovers a secret cave (which in reality is an abandoned subway tunnel) does the meaning of individuality actually begin to take root in their (his) head.
Equality 7-2521 is overwhelmed by this discovery, and wants to share it with the World Council of Scholars.
“It is a sin to write this.
It is base and evil.”  - Ayn Rand, AnthemBefore my Goodreads days, before I knew anything about Ayn Rand, I kept spotting her name on booklists and decided to buy a few of her books.
I liked the writing style, and I enjoyed Rand’s depiction of a dystopic world, one in which the pronoun ‘I' is not used as it is a collectivist society with no time for individuality.
My only problem with this book is that it was too short!
Quick read with a lasting impression. Released over a decade before George Orwell's '1984', this is Rand's objection to the idea of Socialist unity and embraces the idea of the human ego and individualism. Rand herself described this story as a poem, allowing the story to flow. She is able to enforce her philosophy of 'objectivism' without the challenge of a long winded novel (Atlas Shrugged, anyone?)Although her writing in 'Anthem' is more transparent then her norm, the book still captivates and makes it's point.
It's given a beautiful, but somewhat dark and gritty visual interpretation by Parsons, that made it easy and fun to read.
I read this in about thirty minutes and it felt like cheating, getting through an Ayn Rand work in that little time!
The planet has nearly experience destruction at the hands of (nuclear?) war leaving a dark time.
Mankind rises in a 'great rebirth' only though an extreme authoritarian world order that worships 'We' at the complete expense of indvidual freedom.
We have to have some level of social order and give up some freedoms to have peace and to support the less fortunate, etc..
This book illustrates this extreme form, and at the end once the main character discovers his sense of self, he claims that he will never again use the term "we".
It worked though in this case, because for him, there is no concept of a singular person existing just in their own head, so it's like he assumed from the very beginning that his writings would be read by someone else.
But, once he starts reading at the house, and discovers his sense of self, Rand goes a bit wild via this character.
One of my all time favorites.
I read this for the first time when I was a senior in high school.
So short...but SO much within those short pages.
I used to read this book, without fail, EVERY New Years day.
After about 10 years I stopped the tradition.
I just picked this up again for about the 12 time and it still grabbed me...this book is timeless.
Do yourself a favor and read this book!!UPDATE: For the people that gave this 1 star...
I believe you missed the entire meaning of this ORIGINAL Dystopia book and the beautiful message it conveys.
ridiculous
Ayn Rand is I think deserving of the appellation "an odd duck".
One of her dearest ideas (and I would suppose ideals) is the the right, willingness and ability to think for one's self.
This book is worth reading and I think there are valuable things to take away from this little novella.
Ms. Rand is a classic case of "throwing the baby out with the bath water." I'd say, read and learn, but don't be guilty of the simply absorbing and following...think for yourself.Any more on this and I'll have to go into my own ideas and thoughts.
I never quite figured out why my highschool lit teacher made this required reading. It's something I've always wondered about. Anthem struck me as too much "anti-communist." Somewhat propaganda material for the anti-communist forces. I've always been skeptical of rabid anti-communism. In the novella, the characters have serial numbers instead of names, isn't that what's happening in the capitalist system as well, with our identity cards and employee numbers?
Futuristic society that doesn't recognize individuals -- everyone's name is "Equality" followed by a number.
One day, Equality-some-number-or-another stumbles across a cave with books in it and discovers the word "I" and immediately realizes what it means even though his cultural and linguistic backgrounds have in no way equipped him to understand but whatever, it's a novella and Rand doesn't have time.
Anyway, now Equality-### has an "I" and so he lives in the cave forever and is free.
The end.This book is really, really stupid.
Soviet Communism sucked, in extremely general ways!
Individuals!
With the subtlety of a falling safe, Ayn Rand delivers this short treatise on the subject of egotism masquerading as science fiction with only the barest rudiments of a setting, story and plot set out for the reader to classify it as a "novel".Anthem is set in a world where individualism is dead and collectivism is the only way to live; a complete social, cultural and industrial overhaul has been conducted, and the word "I" has been eradicated from vocabulary.
The only virtue of Anthem is that it's mercifully short; as a work of fiction it's painfully simple and transparent, the plot is predictable, weakly imagined and heavy handed.
At age 15 we are told what we will be doing every day until we are 40, when we will enter the Home of The Useless.
We are not allowed to think about anything other than what we are told to think.
We find a way to nurture ourselves within that great WE and we survive.
I look around and see people being molded into a great herd that follows orders: Buy this, Drink that, Eat here, Do this, Don't say that, You need this, You cannot do that.
Is it possible that in a few more generations society will be just as Rand describes it?
Witless, styleless, and self-righteous. "1984" and "A Brave New World" are far more effective books. Although I can't say I agree that individualism is more important than collectivism, especially when people come together as a whole to do things positive in this world.
Huxley's Brave New World (1931) takes Henry Ford's philosophy to its logical extreme not because he thinks we might end up there precisely, but to criticize what it's up to right now.Dystopia in the hands of a good writer is an elaborate way of saying, "Chill, dude." In the hands of a nutjob, it's Anthem.Like Huxley before her, Rand rips off We blatantly.
It's poorly written and poorly thought, and it's a crap book.Literature is never dangerous.
The dangerous thing is bad judgment: when you're wrong about which ideas are good, and which are bad.
