https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7913305-the-immortals-of-meluha
The book is based on the belief that perhaps the actions, the deeds and karma are the only deciding factors in transforming an ordinary man to Mahadev - God of Gods.WHAT I LIKED THE MOST ABOUT THE BOOKUsing the same characters, places and names which are associated with Lord Shiva -Mansarovar,Sati, Nandi, Daksh, Gunas, makes the whole story very believable and easy to relate to.Many euphoric moments throughout the narrative, especially the episode when Neelkanth inspires the Suryavanshi army to believe in 'Har Har Mahadev' - each and every person is Mahadev.
A different take on Shiva the destroyer, a god revered by millions of Hindus all over the world, one of the Trimurti (three main Gods, the others being Brahma the creator and Vishnu the preserver ), known as Natraj -- the lord of dance and one of the most passionate men in Hindu mythology.The author has done a good job of integrating all the details known to us about the Indus Valley Civilization and has also given his own explanations for various concepts.
The author had some good places where he could have ended this book but he chose to end the book with a cliffhanger and a 'To Be Continued'.
Or was he not convinced that his story was interesting enough for audiences to want to read the next book if he had given it a proper ending.
Good story poorly written Amish Tripathi weaves a splendid but totally fictional & fantasised account of Shiva's traivails.For the folks looking for Lord Shiva's mythologicaly accurate chronical would feel frustrated.
This book is certainly not for the purists; they should explore authetic SHIVA PURAN for that goal.This is a fabricated, but very well conceptualised story, weaving together the history(Indus Valley Civilization), geaography ( North Indian plains above the Vindhayas) & mythology; it still is a fantasy neverthless!
The publishers should have added an asterix with a disclaimer somewhere, else many readers might feel cheated, like me.The writer deserves kuddos for coming up with such creative story-plot, however the quality of writing is very pedestrain.
The book never touches a pinnacle while you're reading Indian mythology.
But in this book, the author is just engrossed in moving the story forward while he forgets to add any substance to the grand character Shiva himself, the Lord, the one of Trinity.
The characters in modern day fiction are more researched and elaborated, create a more connect with the reader than the protagonist in this one.
I just wish that the writing was more elegant, content more researched and the story presented as the could be story of Shiva the God, rather than Shiva yes someone like yeah who transformed.
“Death is the ultimate destroyer of a soul’s aspirations. Ironically, it is usually the approach of this very destruction which gives a soul the courage to challenge every constraint and express itself. Express even a long-denied dream.”   This was supposed to be a BR with Sillyhead! but it fell through due to real life shit. Sucks ass. I know not when I will get another chance to read with her. While she finished the book ages ago and wrote an amazingly detailed and dissecting review of everyt
BUT, I will try to keep my prejudices out of this review.Before I tell you what this book is about, let me tell you what its NOT about because I feel that is more important.This is not the story of Shiva, the God!
Or is he in for a surprise?As I said in the beginning, I am biased towards Lord Shiva and so understandably, I have tried to read some stories and books based on him.
He kills mercilessly, yet he never goes to battles.Shiva, atleast for me, is a Human God. He makes mistakes, he loves, he punishes, he laughs, he kills, he cries, and he dances!!
This book is a nightmare for all those who not only are devout lovers of Shiva but worship him for what we know of him.
Moreover, if you really want to read a good mythology, why not read Shiva Purana or Saivism this book is not for you.
But, if in case you just want a not so well-written Indian fiction you could waste your time on this!
Just that this book could have talked about a time way before that which would have actually made sense.
Read Kalidasa instead, go back to 1BC, his plot and writings are way more interesting than this well marketed book!
Oh! What a book I have just finished reading... spell-binding and refreshingly different from the rest..! Amazed by the writer's flights of fantasy and how beautifully he has woven the mythology with fiction in a contemporary style..!! Must read..!
I tried to avoid reading this book but eventually i fell prey to the so called 'positive reviews' and some really good marketing by Amish.
Also, mention of oxygen (& free radicals) is totally out of place considering it was not discovered up until late 18th century.
The book seems like the work of a dilettante.
But regular & mature readers, who have read some good books before should refrain themselves from reading this one.
It is utter waste of time & money.
So, don't get fooled by the positive reviews & find a good book to read.
When I first heard of the book I was a bit apprehensive for a few reasons.1) I’m not a fan of Indian mythology, I adore Greek mythology and I am mildly interested in Egyptian but Indian mythology never appealed to me.2) The author had said in an interview that he worshipped Shiva. People tend to sometimes show their own heroes/idols in a supreme being/perfect way therefore I assumed that Amish Tripathi had done the same.3) The Indian market is full of books written by authors who come from field
People tend to sometimes show their own heroes/idols in a supreme being/perfect way therefore I assumed that Amish Tripathi had done the same.3)	The Indian market is full of books written by authors who come from fields which are completely un related to Literature.
There are plenty of good authors who have never studied literature and have yet written excellent books, writing is an inborn talent.
But it did give me a few pleasant surprises.I liked the way the characters, especially Shiva, developed throughout the book.
I felt the author tried too hard to flower up the language by using big, ostentatious words repeatedly, and the effort showed.
And isn’t ‘arrogant’ a lot less conspicuous than ‘supercilious’?And because the writing was so contrived, it was impossible to connect to the story.
It felt like a really long bedtime story that you simply read for the sake of reading and maybe, falling asleep.The characters were nothing new.
And throughout the book, I was painfully aware of the fact that the characters were just characters: fictional, fake elements of the story.
I couldn’t visualise them in flesh and blood.And the end isn’t exactly an end.
The book is a midpoint between Chetan Bhagat's mind-numbing thrillers and a good mythology book.It's a sad state of affairs that most Indians have prescribed to a fast way of life and refuse to read a good book, but will take the short-cut by reading a fast-paced thriller that cheats us into finding out loads about our own culture.
The trilogy is based on mythology but what Amish does is modify it to make it more palatable to the chick-lit loving Indian.
I first saw the ad for Immortals of Meluha on You Tube and it piqued my curiosity.
With a plot that is virtually non-existent, characters that are quarter-baked, terrible language and dialogues that range from asinine to absurd, Immortals of Meluha can be best described as a brilliant concept gone complete awry in execution.
It is only because of my strict principle of finishing a book I start, no matter how horrible it is, that I managed to drag myself to the last page.
In short, a book that was a complete waste of time.
Reading the yellow pages might have been a better way to pass time.
I have read many Lord Shiva's book.
Shiva wasn't really smiling.
Shiva's portrayal as a strong and mighty fighter at times conflicts with his easy banter and almost juvenile interactions with his friend, but in some sense, that's partly where the fun is.And how can I tell you how mesmerised I was whenever I read about Shiva's interactions with Sati here?
Amish wrote them just the way I picture Shiva-Sati relationship.
The love between Shiva and Sati was exactly as I pictured in my mind all these years.
I love the book so much, it's difficult for me to lend it to my friend who also wants to read it.
It is not a version the religious or the traditional will appreciate, but is one that will appeal to those who are not averse to morphing mythology.I tried reading the novel objectively, independent of the Indian and mythological contexts, and found it middling in story line and execution.
Having said that, the success of his work shows that the average English novel reading Shiva devotee has high tolerance.In summary, it is good in parts, and may be enjoyed by those Indian readers who are not very picky.Overall Rating: 2.5 / 5Sub-ratings: Setting (3); Story (2); Characters (3); Writing (2)
It has taken a good amount of effort to even finish the book, and I think it will take a monumental effort to even  consider  liking this bookUnfortunately, no matter how much I have tried, I have decided in the end that I am not a fan of Tripathi’s workBefore I explain why, I’d like to offer a snippet of the actual story:Shiva, one of the three main deities in Hindu mythologies, is called Neelkanth (man with blue throat).
It grows on you.. even though childish for the most part, the child in us can not help but grow to like shiva
A pure adult fantasy (in a nice way)...
Gods are humanized and traditions are questioned.Without revealing too much I would say it traces beautifully the journey of Shiva from being a tribal to a 'Mahadeva'.
Even other popular characters of Ram, Nandi, Sati, Daksha, Brahma are neatly placed.
Only one issue the English used is too local and common phrases like 'dammit' 'what in the name of' etc sound too cliched and take away the glory & grace of the story..
By writing this book Amish unlocked an entirely different genre in the Indian Fiction writing scene. Strong narrative, vivid imagination and good story-pace keep you engaged with the book. The way he weaves Shiva as a human character with an ethereal out-worldly aura is remarkable. Top that off with picturesque descriptions of tools, weapons, battles, strategies, and way kingdoms and ancient commerce behaved, keeps you wanting for more. The book was a good story in itself, but at the root of it though I did not find the story engaging and suspenseful enough to read the next two books.
What if they weren't passive observers with their abodes in the skies, but instead were living, breathing, confused, loving, hating, full-of-life beings just like the rest of us?History meets mythology in The Immortals of Meluha which undertakes the unenviable task of retelling the tale of the Lord Shiva, the Destroyer of Worlds.
And that is the biggest grievance I have with Mr. Amish over his bestselling debut novel.I don't need to go over the plot (hell, all my friends in college who call themselves 'casual readers' had read this about a year back & had been telling me to read this ever since & then I finally borrowed the entire Shiva trilogy from a dear friend back in March in the middle of my university exams) & needless to say, Amish had a brilliant one on his hands.
The writing is a major let-down, for a story of this scope deserves a hell lot better prose than what Amish offers.
And, the author could have avoided the usage of the phrases like 'Damn it'.Above all, the climax is a pity.
When you put down the book after reading, you feel like you had accidentally changed the channel & watched stupid ending of a prime-time soap.
Negatives apart, i would like to end the review on a positive note.
The author indeed is worthy of all praises for showcasing our Mahadev as a simple man just like you and me with flesh, bone and blood.
The writer starts of by saying that he wants to make shiva believable as a man and someone just like us, yet in the entire story, miracles keep happening all the time (none of which happen in our lives and hence cannot be related at all).
Just for an instance, I started counting the number of times the word "hell" has been used by shiva in the entire book - 32 times.
And in answer shiva keeps swearing - "What the hell with this blue throat?" LOL.
The first time i came across reading a book with mythology blended with some fiction!
The author should be appreciated for his braveness in thinking to write a book like this!
He has chosen a high profile god in India as a lead in his franchise!
The author not only succeeded in avoiding it but also came up with this wonderful epic book!One thing i would like to tell for the would be readers of this book, pls remove Lord shiva and think u r reading about a leader shiva.
I started the book with a different set of mind and the ending was much pleasure.
For many readers the terminology and settings of the story might be very different that what they have come to expect within epic fantasy however the glossary provided will help tremendously in their understanding of the plot and terms.
Many might feel that the story seems very formulaic by epic fantasy standards in spite of the Indian settings and that might something to keep in mind while reading this debut.
This book is highly recommended for those wanting to read something different in the field of epic fantasy.
He sure knows how to tell a story, with memorable characters who we'll end up rooting for, vivid detail of the great nation of Bharat, its people and culture several thousands of years ago and truly nail biting action and heart tugging romance that actually place you right in the midst of it all.Amish has vividly re-imagined Lord Shiva as an intelligent, witty, strong willed and macho man who rose to be God of Gods (Mahadev), rather than sticking to the standard known premise of him being worshiped as a God. So 'Immortals of Meluha' is nothing but 'Shiva Puran' for the Millennials.
Long since I read this book, still I could feel the reverberation of "Har Har Mahadev" in my ears _/\_Being the first novel in Amish's Shiva Trilogy series, this novel is all about the rise of Shiva and his romance with his better-half, Sati <3 :)What intrigued me to read this book is the fact that this book is not for those who believe in Shiva Puran, Saivisam and lord Ram's ways of ruling.Its a piece of pure-imagination, where the author gives scope for tribal Shiva to elevate himself to be the God-of-Gods breaking the rules of Lord Ram with the course of time with his intellect and bravery.
I could sense the love in Amish Trivedi which he had for his beloved Mahadev, Shiva.Cant wait anymore to grab the second book !P.S. If you're that single person who cannot come out of Indian Mythological facts, this book can hurt your sentiments, seriously.
When I took up this book the one thing that drew me to it's premise was the fact that the main character Lord Shiva is portrayed as an ordinary human being who became an immortal and the great Mahadev through his deeds alone.
Simple enough story but when the savior is Shiva aka Mahadev the story takes a life of its own.
I liked the author's creativity of give Siva's love interest the name Sati, the name of his first wife in Hindu mythology and stating that she is also known by the name Parvati, the second wife of Lord Shiva according to myth.
The author is brilliant in the way he blends mythology and history to tell the epic story of Shiva, a tribal warrior from Tibet whose destiny leads him to become the promised saviour of Meluha (the land of the Indus Valley civilization).
The biggest disappointment in the book is the Shiva - Sati love story that had immense tragic and romantic potential but was completely wasted.Overall, definitely worth a read but I'm unsure if this is worth a buy.
I will definitely be reading the next book ('The Secret of the Nagas') though...in the hope that the writing gets better because I really do love the story and the setting.
The only advantage of a book with an interesting story line; but with poor writing is that you can finish it in 4-5 hours.
Either the editors are in the wrong job or the author did not know any english when he wrote the manuscript.The charm of reading fantasy fiction/ historical fiction, is not only getting immersed in the story.
The great fantasy books stand out, because it marries an intriguing plot with descriptive prose.
Immortals of Meluha does none of these except have an intriguing story line.
I am pleasantly surprised after reading this book. My recent experience with Indian authors wasn't great and also portraying a mighty character like Shiva is not an easy task.On the whole, I liked the book. The description of the scenes is extensive which tends to be boring after a while. But the blend of facts and fiction was really good. Especially loved the last two chapters. Would definitely read the second book.
