https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/431366.The_Photographer_s_Eye
A book to savour; to come back to time and time again."Robert Capa expressed both the narrative poverty and the symbolic power of photography when he said..'if your pictures aren't good enough, you're not close enough'".
Szarkowski was probably wrong in suggesting the narrative poverty of photographs.
But he was right in emphasising their symbolic potency.
This book examines this potency through five lenses: the thing itself; the detail; the frame; time and vantage point.
What's here is great, but I was hoping for more text. John Szarkowski's introduction to William Eggleston's Guide is a brilliant piece of writing, and was partially responsible for inspiring me to learn more about the art of photography. I guess I figured this book was his opportunity to really flesh out those ideas and add depth to the concepts he'd discussed previously. But really, it's a lot of the same concepts, and a whole bunch of black and white photos to back them up. Which is great, and still valuable, but not exactly what I'd had in mind.
I wish I could give this more stars. Read it, then get The Nature of Photographs by Steven Shore and grab a broom. Sweep your melted face off the floor, mop up any remaining brain fluids. Repeat and see the world with clarity and coherence.
(MOMA), New York, in 1964.
perhaps the debate about the role of photography was useful in mid-1960s, but now this book seems outdated.The key contribution of this work is the rather outdated theory of the elements of expression in photography: composition (focusing on realism and displacing/replacing painting), detail (instead of a while narrative), frame (synthesis), time (from short-exposure stills to long-running ghosts), and vantage point (which enables new angles to view the "real" world).As a possibly timeless contribution, this book depicts well over 100 photographs, among others of Atget, Matthew Brady (secession war pics), Bill Brand, Peter Buckley, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Walker Evans, Robert Frank, Lee Friedlander, Andre Kertesz, Jacques Henri Lartigue, Paul Strand, and Edward Weston.
It was because of John Szarkowski that I am re-discovering black & white photography once again. Saw a quote by him in Photography: Foundations for Art & Design and was curious to know more. He's someone who has an appreciation and passion for photographs and imagery/representation. His words have enticed me to re-look and relish the old b&w images taken by Weegee, Andre Kertesz, Lee Friendlander, August Sander, etc... It's fascinating how when I look back I realise the photographer's eye has not really changed that much after all.
A beautiful exploration of the first hundred-or-so years of photography, from the early tin-types of Matthew Brady and countless others whose names are forgotten to history, to the modern masters: Robert Frank, André Kertész, Edward Weston, et al. A wonderful collection of photography akin to Edward Steichen's famous Family of Man. Excellent for those who want to understand early photography.
A short and sweet book about the photography - the book is in B&W but the principles work for all types of photography.
An incredible collection of photographs, curated to get at the grammar and possibilities of photography
If you are just starting out, or have lost your way taking photographs this is a book that you should read and absorb.
A must read for photographers. It's a bench mark book on the examination of photographic composition.
Just a selection of excellent photographs, famous and not famous photographers, over many years, organized by several themes.
If you have an interest in photography, or are an amateur photographer I really recommend the book.
This is a really gorgeous collection of photographs. The soldiers on the bridge! I go back and look at it often. Recommended to anyone interested in photography.
This is one of the best books on photography I've read.
Beautiful bit of writing at the beginning of this. A well curated exhibition.
Great compilation of photos from masters of the 19th & 20th Century. Separated into chapters such as the frame , the subject, etc.
Just read the introduction, and it was amazing.
this is a wonderful framing of considering photographs from certain vantage points. To understand the aesthetic of a photograph Szarkowski presents five frames that can help decipher and further discussion of a photograph- Time, Vantage, Frame, Detail, and the Thing Itself (the subject of the photograph, is it actual or does it challenge the observers concern with realistic presentation of a thing).
insegna a leggere le immagini, quasi senza testo. Ha un sacco di bellissime foto dal 1850 al 1960. Sorprendente la qualità di quelle più vecchie.
Scholastically and historically interesting, but not for a casual camera (or smart phone) user.
Great collection of photos organized to exemplify Szarkowski's "issues" with photography; or, rather, the "characteristics and problems that have seemed inherent in the medium." Was hoping to get more insight and criticism from Szarkowski, though. I read his introduction in William Eggleston's Guide and was blown away. I wanted more of that. This book actually only contains a few pages of Szarkowski's writing - the bulk of the book is photos.
A somewhat brief introduction to the development of photography as an art form. I found it fascinating to see some of the earliest versions of what are now considered fairly standard shots/techniques.The text, though sparse, is elucidating and critically written.Several of the photographs were fascinating for their sheer inventiveness. Others were more banal, but perhaps valuable for their historical influence on the artform.
After reading Kevin Moore's analysis [critique:] of Szarkowski, I couldn't resist reading this book, which Moore suggests is central to the construction of an idea of Art Photography in the United States. What can i say except that the pictures are wonderful. I'm sure that I will go on learning from the pictures in this book for a long time.
changes the way you think about making pictures
Basic forbeginners
Wonderful book. Pretty insightful!
Loved this!
Oh, you are a photographer?????!!! Have you studied this book?. .... NO????!!!!! .... Well go f*ck yourself for a while, read this, and then get back to me.
A great primer for anyone who wants to get a crash course or primer in what makes a great photograph, and of course Mr. Szarkoski is one of my favourite photography writers
This book blows my mind in a way few art books ever have.
