https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130580.Old_Yeller
And, yet, when we got to the first of the two pivotal parts of the heart-breaking plot, she jumped up and shouted, “WHY ARE YOU MAKING ME LISTEN TO THIS?”I asked her, “Would you like me to stop?”She sat back down and answered, “No.”When we got to the second sad part of the story, I collapsed in deep sobs, but I still heard her little voice say, “Mom, it's like Charlotte's Web all over again.
Asked her, “How many stars would you give it?”She looked up at me like I was an idiot and said, “Five stars.
I read this book because I love dogs and I'm a masochist.
This 1950s Pocket edition, purchased from a Sonoma used book store, presented today as a gift to my eight year old daughter (more on this later).
My memories of the movie are hazy, but it seems that the film action follows closely to the written word action, and while there is definitely sadness in the passing of Old Yeller, it doesn't feel like maudlin melancholy.
As an eight year old it is the kind of book I would want to read about such weighty subjects as death, grieving, living.
While reading the book I hand it to my daughter and ask her to flip the pages under her nose and breath in.
I actually had a lump in my throat from time to time as I continued reading this book.“We called him Old Yeller.
The truly sad part is when hydrophobia (rabies I guess) strikes and does the family suffer in that regard.I initially thought that Old Yeller was the catalyst in this book but it is indeed the horse as Travis, through sheer hard work, progresses through the early stages of manhood.
Some will say how they love these books and how possibly there was just no other way to "realistically" end the story.
While fiction does instruct, there are some lessons I learned from life, I don't need to have them rehashed in leisure time activities.This book/movie (I know but in this case I'll lump them together) scarred me and I suspect other young people.
Maybe this book is well written.
I sometimes suspect that many if not most of the people who come to "love" books like this maybe haven't gone through that pain in life.
Amazing!
There is a reason this book is such a classic.
I cried at the end.
What a dog that Yeller.
A frontier family survive with the help of this scoundrel dog.
This book is so grounded and down to earth.
They had a lot of ingenuity living on the land as they did.
I appreciated how Fred handled the emotions of the characters.
Everything and everyone felt so real.
I felt like they were living and breathing.
Travis's emotional arch is touching.
This is a work of art, it really is.
I'm so glad I gave this a go.
Here's the story of Old Yeller: Daddy, Mama, young son, and early teenage son live as a family on the Texas frontier.
You might even consider having your sons read this book.
In truth, Old Yeller is the timeless story of the journey a boy goes through to become a man.
I suspect these men have been shielded from hard and unpleasant tasks, and by being so protected, they fail to learn to do the right thing, regardless of its difficulty.I have seen Old Yeller on film two or three times and had read the book in years past multiple times.
Gipson’s simply told tale of a boy and his dog living in the Texas Hill Country of 1860 is a genuine classic of children’s literature.
Just as Old Yeller worms his way into the family’s hearts, this book will burrow into the reader’s heart.
I am not a “dog person,” but I really connected with this book.
I think this in part due to the fact that I grew up in the Texas Hill Country, so the scenery was alive in my imagination.
This was rough and cruel (not in a bad sense) and heart-breaking.
I started this with an audiobook from HarperCollins.
The narrator's voice sounded like a character from an old western film The Good, the Bad and the Ugly.
But then I dropped the audio and started to read when I reached the emotional parts, because, well, I couldn't bear the insensitive reading and needed to read it myself.Oh, and I am not a big crier (view spoiler)[(even when Dobby died) (hide spoiler)], but yeah, Julie, I cried during the whole last chapter...
Fantastic narrator, perfect voice for the part.I thought I remembered the book well, but I hadn't, not really.
Super movie, but nothing beats the book.Gipson perfectly captured a mature 14 year old, the kind of boy I'd expect given the times, post Civil War Texas, late 1860's.
The feelings he had were very well done as were the descriptions of life at the time.
Makes me glad to live now.I won't even bother saying anything about that old yeller dog.
I will say the book handles the end better than the movie, IMO.
For a childrens' classic, this book is better suited for animal lovers with a good streak of masochism, because that ending was rather brutal on the feels.
This is the first book that ever made me cry. I would read it during my study period in the 4th grade each day for almost 2 weeks (it was my class copy-- so I had to keep putting it back and hoping no one else would take it). I held my tears back until the lunch bell rang and then ran for the bathroom to cry. It may have been the first time I realized how incredible it was to read.
Πρόκειται για ένα κλασικό young adult αμερικάνικο μυθιστόρημα, στο οποίο γινόμαστε μάρτυρες της φιλίας που μπορεί να δημιουργηθεί ανάμεσα σε έναν σκύλο και έναν έφηβο.
Η όλη ιστορία διαδραματίζεται στο Τέξας, στα τέλη της δεκαετίας του 1860, όπου ο δεκατετράχρονος Τράβις γίνεται ο άντρας του σπιτιού, από τη στιγμή που ο πατέρας του φεύγει για να οδηγήσει ένα κοπάδι σε άλλη πολιτεία.
Μια μέρα, θα κάνει την εμφάνισή στο αγρόκτημα του Τράβις, ένα αδέσποτο σκυλί, ο Κιτρινιάρης, με την πρώτη γνωριμία να μην είναι και η καλύτερη δυνατή ανάμεσα στον σκύλο και τον πιτσιρικά.
The fact that this book is assigned in many elementary schools supports my belief that the government wants to discourage pleasure reading from the earliest possible age.
This cycle is almost foreign to us anymore, and I believe that that isn't a good thing.
One of my favorite quotes from the book is when Travis is talking with his dad about his feelings after Yeller's death.
His dad says, "Now the thing to do,"he went on, "is to try to forget it and go on being a man.""How?" I asked.
"How can you forget a thing like that?"He studied me for a moment, then shook his head.
That makes it all bad."Another point made in the book that I really liked was about man's dependence on the land.
It is about a boy named Travis living with his siter, alice and mom.Travis always wanted a horse to ride on but everytime the dad said, " when you are a man,".The dog came to the house one time and ate the meat they hunted for and lay down dirty and guilty.
They named it Old yeller because of its color.Travis started to like the dog and took it out for hunting an dthey had fun.
It was a hard time especially for TRavis and he finally got his horse too.Dear Fred Gipson, why did you make Old Yeller die at the end?
Old Yeller takes place just after the Civil War when Texas is still being settled.
Travis Coates is 14 and his father leaves him in charge of the family while he goes on a cattle drive.
Travis has the help of a stray "yeller" dog to protect his mother and little brother, Arliss.
It's a wonderful story of perseverance and self-sacrifice in the face of drought, wild hogs, hydrophobia, and other dangers.
Travis often remembered what his father had taught him to do in various situations.
So though his dad is physically absent, his presence is felt throughout the story.
A terrific coming-of-age story.
Old Yeller is definitely a classic, I read it in the fifth grade and it's a well-written, unforgettable and original story, though incredibly depressing. The imagery, characters and scenery were what really made this book stand out.
sad...
When I was about 9 years old, we decided to read Old Yeller together.
It was a special time for me, as I had my mom all to myself in a busy house, and we both really enjoyed the story, characters, and the writing.
What I will say, is that Old Yeller, was the first book that taught me as a youth, in a deep and powerful way, how strong the written word can be.
I remember being almost shocked that I could feel such immense empathy for characters who I knew logically were not real.
Even after all these years, I still have very strong feelings about this book.
I still love this book about a boy and a dog he never wanted after losing his faithful old dog, Bell.
He wanted a horse.
All Travis had to do is take care of his mother and his little brother, Arliss.
His mother suggests that the little boy will need a companion to play with, to keep Arliss company while she and Travis are working the farm.
“We called him Old Yeller.
One part meant that his short hair was a dingy yellow, a color that we called “yeller” in those days.
I must be a dog mood.
I can say both are beautifully written books, but I prefer Old Yeller.
It has a lot more heart.
You already know that the dog dies, but the story around his eventual death is a lot more harrowing than you might suspect.
Life in Texas at this time in history was bru-tal, and this is mostly a story of survival and fighting with the land.
Amongst all this though is the story of a boy and his dog, which is also interesting.
A great book if all you've done is see the movie.
First book that made me cry. Old classic favorite.
Such a simple yet powerful little book. You can't help but fall in love with Old Yeller, which makes the ending all the more heart breaking.
But the challenges of feeding and protecting his family prove to be greater than his boy's abilities, and he comes to depend on and love the stray dog which adopts their family.The story follows chapter after chapter of gritty, riveting and often funny adventures as the family wrestles out a living from the land, dealing with angry bulls, thieving coons, an enraged bear, vicious javelinas, and an outbreak of "hydrophobia" (rabies).
In the culmination of the story, Yeller is bitten while fighting off a rabies-infected wolf that had attacked Travis's mother.
Although he loves Yeller, he knows his responsibility is first toward his mother and brother.
Filled with the lore of backwoods Texas in the 1860s, including a great deal of information about how they went about surviving in perilous circumstances with threats on every side from the natural world and their fellow humans.The main character, of course, is a mangy cur named Old Yeller, who comes to stay with Travis's family one day, out of the blue.
Travis can't stand him at first, but comes to love Yeller with his whole heart.
Throughout it all, Old Yeller is companion, friend and protector to the whole family.If you have never read this sweet story, give yourself a treat and pick it up.
Boy, reading this bittersweet story for the first time brought back so many childhood memories of watching the endearing Disney film over and over and over, and crying every time!
As I read this, I couldn't help but think how excellently cast everyone was.
I loved reading this from Travis's point of view.
It's a rare thing these days for teen boys to aspire to manhood, and it was great to read the old-fashioned country story of a boy taking care of his family while his pa is away.
Loved this so much!
I can't remember when I first read this classic.
Maybe I was nine, maybe ten.
I recently borrowed it from the library to reacquaint myself with the story.It's still a great read.
I mean, of course it is.
The words remain the same as back then.
But it still evoked the same emotions, especially at the end when I felt like crying - only to experience a smile wrench me back again.Some won't have read it yet, so I won't spoil it for you all.
But I urge you to find it.
It's a children's book, but it holds some grown up lessons.
Ah. I read this back in the day. (third grade? i don't know.)I was not a big fan of this book. It was mainly about a dog. (read my review of The Incredible Journey to understand)I was not a very big fan of this book. In fact, I liked the Incredible Journey better, and that itself was not a book I liked. That's just my opinion because I really am not the biggest fan of animals.
3.5 stars. This is an easy, quick-reading book, and the story was nice. I'd recommend this to anyone who wants to read a nice and easy English book :)
