https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15843166-you-are-a-badass
Listened to the audiobook for this one and really enjoyed it! The advice itself wasn't super original, but it's still a very motivational and inspirational read, and the way the author presents the info is fun and entertaining. I wouldn't classify this as a life-changing read for me, but after each listening session I definitely did feel more motivated to get my shit together, and that is exactly what I wanted from this book, so I'm counting it as a win!
But in the end, there was just the same "you get what you put out" anecdotal nonsense that has kept the self-help industry in its happy place for decades, with a few four letter words thrown in to trick people into believing that this book is edgy and thought-provoking.It's not.You Are A Badass feels like a guidance counselor trying to "connect" with their high school students by sitting down for a "rap session" and telling them "I know how square you must think adults are--but I know how lame life can get some times!
"It's not enough to desire something, you've got to want it"Seriously?
Did I just get tricked into reading a rip-off of The Secret because I liked the title?
There were a few things that really bothered me.
If you are depressed, you cannot simply decide that you are not going to be depressed anymore and get yourself out and have fun.
I also feel that some of her advice is not very practical in the real world.
I should buy expensive things, that I might not be able to pay for?
There is some good advice on stopping negative thoughts, but some of the examples of going for what you really want are just not practical for most people.
Basically it all boils down to the theory that everyone has the power to "manifest" their own reality and if things are not working out for them it is because they are not manifesting hard enough and / or not "vibrating" at a high enough level.
Sometimes people are served up an unresolvable shit sandwich by life, and making them feel they should be vibrating and manifesting their way out of it kind of lacks humanity, you know?It's not like I am some sad sack sitting here at home spending my days feeling sorry for myself and the human race.
I read one and a half chapters and then stumbled on the whole idea of source energy. If I want some real change in my life, I want real tips and not some esoteric mumbo jumbo. I'm also a bit peeved that the author mentioned in the very beginning that her readers should be open minded about her methods, and if they weren't they should just deal with living a sucky life. As if her methods were the only working ones.So I hardly have to mention that I stopped reading it immediately.
The point Jen Sincero makes in this self-help book is we are all great, we all have enormous potential, we all possess the power to succeed at absolutely everything we direct our energy towards, but we are also our very own obstacle.
Ms. Sincero identifies common thought processes and behaviors that keep us from living a truly awesome life and she coaches the reader on how to identify them, replace them, and move forward like a badass.The first half of this book was absolutely perfect in my opinion - my favorite chapters were the ones about the power of gratitude.
A friend, who will remain nameless for her personal safety, told me that this book changed her life. I am so very happy for her. What I took from Jen Sincero's self-help-memoir was: that I am most definitely not a "badass", that I'm really, really fine with that, and that reading about it did not make me want to "share my awesomeness with the world" so much as contemplate a life of violent crime. Please do not ever, ever read it.
If no one tells me to love myself for the next five years, that would be great.
Served with a healthy dose of humor, a smidge of sarcasm and plenty of great quotes,  Jen Sincero dishes her take  on self-help, self- acceptance and (of course)   self-love. This has all the hallmarks of a Self-Help book - cheesy one-liners and a perky "You CAN do it" attitude. I honestly expected it to be just another cookie cutter how to become the real you. Bleh. Needless to say, I was totally ready to hate it.  Yet, the more I read,  the more I enjoyed hearing her advice.  She's hilarious.
This has all the hallmarks of a Self-Help book - cheesy one-liners and a perky "You CAN do it" attitude.
If you’re serious about changing your life, you’ll find a way.
If you’re not, you’ll find an excuse.You are responsible for what you say and do.
Sally always says She can't find a good single man because there aren't any left out there.
All the good single men were hunted down and killed so no matter how many dates you go on or how many times you put on sexy high heels and hang around home depot, you'll never bump into one?
This book was Badass!!!!
If you have any mental barriers that are holding you back from achieving your goals then this book is for you!
You have to be comfortable with some colorful language, and the idea of the Law of Attraction, but if you're open minded you will get a lot from this book.
I've read a lot of books on this subject, but this one was so much more in your face (in a good way) and more easy to put into practice.
I plan to read it again right away to make sure I get the full effect!
4 stars!
And then I got to a couple of sections that I thought gave advice that was downright irresponsible -- and decided I would review it.
While I respect that this made her change some things in her work life to enable her to pay for a luxury car she couldn't afford, it is irresponsible to give this advice.
While some of the tips that she gave were useful and could help a reader make positive change in their life, there were enough areas where I thought her advice was overly simplified and ignored the realities that many face.
At first I really liked this book. I laughed my ass off. I kept thinking, "yes! That's exactly what I do!" But then...the book kinda started going down the same old self help book road. Still there were some funny bits, but there was nothing new or earth shattering. And then there was the chapter on money and finances that really left a sour taste in my mouth. So superficial. And sad. After that, nothing could make it better. I was half heartedly reading just to finish and check it off my list. Check.
In an effort to broaden my reading horizon, I have made it a goal to read some inspirational books that will help me grow! This book was very helpful and offers some great skills and techniques to apply to your life so that you can be a BADASS! *I listened to this book on audible.com! For more reviews/reveals/giveaways visit:
I think some of the ideas in here are on the right track, but her "just do it" kind of attitude is shortsighted and potentially harmful for someone who is dealing with actual mental health issues like depression and anxiety. There is a way to believe that I am a badass capable of overcoming my self-doubt and my other obstacles, but I don't think Jen Sincero is going to help me with that.
This book is Bad!
Ass!I don't think I've ever laughed out loud that many times while reading, though comic relief is not the intent.
The whole purpose of the book is to freakin' change your life already.
Make a difference.
Love yourself.
Love yourself.
Love your life.
Put your best foot forward again and again.Are you where you want to be in your life?
Doing what you want?
Living where you want?You have to want it, crave it, need it - can't live without it!
If that's the place you're in, this is your book.
After that, keep reading, achieving and surrounding yourself with other rock stars.
But I read 82% of it, all the while growing more and more unimpressed, until finally I got to the point that I just had to stop.
My kindle says there's 33 minutes left for me to read.
But I've decided I want those 33 minutes to myself.This book is basically a regurgitation of all other self-help kind of writings but with a "fun and hip" tone, or something.
While I like the unbridled optimism that Sincero brings to this kinda half-baked self-help book, I've never been able to get behind advice of that nature.
I'm down with taking a positive spin on life, believing that I deserve happiness, and all that crap--it's gotten me pretty far, actually--so good job, book.Despite its inherent gooshyness, You Are A Badass did reinforce some ideas that I already had about my role in my own happiness, and it did give me a few new epiphanies to chew on, which made it a successful self-help book.
One thing I hated about You Are a Badass is that Jen Sincero works really hard to make you feel like a big loser if you haven't yet achieved every single dream you've ever had in life.
I wish I'd known it was intentional all along—I still wouldn't have found it motivating, but at least I would have been annoyed or angry instead of feeling like a giant loser the whole time.Beyond that, this book was way more woo-woo than I was expecting.
I'm looking to make some big changes in my life, but I know it's going to be hard and a lot of work, and I've just been feeling depressed about it.
Literally finished this book and immediately jumped into taking action. It reminded me how much of a badass I truly am and finally helped me overcome my fears. Never again will I doubt my faith and the awesomeness that I WILL bring to this world. Everything is available to me and I deserve it. Here I come world. :)
*****The full review of this book can be read at Darling & Co.*****I was really excited for this book.
I have the day-by-day calendar and I love it.
The book version was...a let down, for a few reasons.Between the repetitiveness, Jen insulting the reader, and the big one, talking more about herself than actually how to help a person be a badass, the whole book was a disappointment.
I don't know, maybe I'm already a badass and that's why I didn't like it; but I really didn't learn anything new from this book that I haven't read/heard a million times before.
This book is marketed as no-nonsense and plain-spoken, and it is definitely the latter, but has as much nonsense in it as any self-help book.
There is, however, a lot of interesting information in here and I think can be a motivating to many people.
You just have to get past what amounts to a bunch of sentient universe mumbo-jumbo, including the idea that, following this author's advice, you will always magically get "rock star" parking at the mall, etc.
The mind is a wonderful thing.Beyond that, there really is some great advice about really going after your dreams, and I have already started heeding some of her advice.
I enjoyed this book very much. Their was some very insightful concepts introduced to improve our inner self talk and the way we think of our own accomplishments.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
ok this is extremely pre-mature and probably not a valid opinion but -I picked up this book today, got through about 4 chapters and can't finish it.
maybe i should give it a chance but honestly, i'd rather not lol.
also, i might be an asshole for this but i can't stand the voice of this book.
it just felt like i was reading a knock off version of the secret.i feel like such an asshole saying this because this book is SOOO highly raved about.
maybe i'll give it a chance another time.
4 Stars Jen Sincero is a badass who woke up from her mundane existence (THE BIG SNOOZE) and began throwing all her money, time and energy into the process of getting her true life back on track.
Jen Sincero is not reinventing the wheel when it comes to the tried and true methods of getting out your own way and opening yourself up to possibilities of life.
Or In order to kick ones ass you have to be willing to lift up your foot.All the passages really resonate with me; meditation, spirituality, gratitude, body scans, and the power of manifesting your true life.
I was like who fears having money!!!???
I don't remember the exact quote, but she said something like this: 'You can decide to either listen to this book and take my advice or you can go back to your sucky life.' Seriously??!
Second of all, I kind of regret sticking here listening to your 'advice' rather than coming back to my 'sucky' life.So, what I'm trying to say here is that you do not insult the reader, that's not what makes a book good.
.I know this book is an extremely popular book and have changed many people’s lives, and there’s nothing wrong with learning from others, but I was frustrated.
If this book was marketed as “things I learned from years of reading other’s books,” I would’ve given her a pass, but that wasn’t the case.
.It’s a great content & well-organized, but I cannot get pass the fact these aren’t her work.
And she tried to be so funny, it wasn’t funny at all..You can certainly learn a lot by reading this book, but it’s things that have been said over & over again, unoriginal is what I’m saying.
I'm a sucker for a peppy self help book. There's nothing new here, but it's quick and a good pick me up. Basically, The Secret via a sassy coach. I don't mean that in a snarky way. My take on self help and diet books is similar...just because it's been done before doesn't mean it's not worth a read. Timing, refresher info, a kick in the pants all contribute to moving you forward in life.
