https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25242224-the-story-of-the-lost-child
It is the culmination of Elena Ferrante's Neapolitan series, and it wraps up the story of two friends, Elena and Lila.
Meanwhile, Elena's writing career has ups and downs, and Lila becomes entangled in the underground politics of their old neighborhood in Naples.It is hard to explain to someone who hasn't read Ferrante why these novels are so powerful.
Their lives are so well-drawn, their emotions and experiences are so real, and the history and neighborhoods of Italy are so well-described that this book feels more like an autobiography than a novel.
One lives it.I have become deeply connected to Elena and Lila over these four books.
I'm done. I'm actually done. The journey is over, and what a wonderful journey it was. Maybe soon I will be able to write a better review, but for now I can only say that this series is truly unlike anything I've read. It's a modern masterpiece, and Elena Ferrante is one of the greatest living authors. I'm sure to revisit these books again and again and again. In the mean time, goodbye Lila & Lenu. It's been a pleasure.
This is the end Beautiful friend This is the end My only friend, the end Of our elaborate plans, the end Of everything that stands, the end No safety or surprise, the end I'll never look into your eyes...again Can you picture what will be So limitless and free Desperately in need...of some...stranger's hand In a...desperate land Lost in a Roman...wilderness of pain And all the children are insane All the children are insane Waiting for the summer rain, yeah~The Doors, "The End" Nothing about th
But as her friend Lila had done years before, Elena throws propriety and security to the winds and follows her passion back to Naples, the scene of so much crime in the streets, so many crimes of the heart.
We know from the very beginning—hundreds of pages ago, when we embarked on this political and personal Odyssey—that Lila has disappeared as an elderly woman, at the twisted and burnt end of her rope.
Book Four has less of a feel of fictional memoir about it; it reads more like a novel.
Elena Greco finally writes about Lila, except it isn’t these books (these books play no part whatsoever in her story); it’s a seventy page novella called Friendship.
It’s a novel that constantly springs surprises, that constantly makes you stop and question lazy emotional and moral assumptions you realise you harbour.
In contrast, the more of Elena’s vanity we see the more we doubt that Elena Greco could have written these novels.
Questo gesto cambiò tutto tra noi per sempre.Per il primo paio di pagine ho fatto un po’ fatica a riannodare il filo: benché il racconto riprenda esattamente dal punto dove era stato interrotto la volta precedente, alla fine del terzo romanzo, Storia di chi parte e di chi resta, è comunque passato un anno da allora.Ma è stata una sensazione di breve durata: in poco tempo Elena Ferrante mi ha preso e portato via, mi ha trascinato con sé, all’inseguimento della vita e nella vita - nella vita dei suoi personaggi, incalzandoli, seguendoli, entrando nel loro intimo, nei recessi più nascosti, negli umori cattivi, per quanto a volte innocui.
Slum, Naples, Italy, 1947In reading the 'Neapolitan series' of Elena Ferrante, I am constantly reminded of the clear influence of 19th-century realism - description of ordinary or familiar events as they are, with digressions into political events or societal norms to fill in the background.
There is a code word spoken very early in the first volume which tipped me off to the later developments of the rest of the book, when the two girls talk about Little Women.
And of course the author is not so blunt as to just tell you such a thing happened, but to show individual reactions, facial expressions, choices in words, who talks to who and who avoids who.
Definitely a journey to Naples that you do not want to miss.One thing that struck me with this series is the similarities and differences with another classic story which crosses four decades in as many books: the Rabbit Tetralogy by John Updike.
[SPOILER SECTION - STOP HERE OR BEWARE!]I really enjoyed the allegory of the doll which brought the story full circle from the beginning of the relationship between Lena and Lila and was a beautiful reminder of that first wonderful book.
There is a terrible sense of loss once you reach the last line of the last volume of Ferrante's saga, her writing is so addictive, it has kept me company for over a year now and waiting for the next installment of the story has been a delightful suspense.I feel abandoned to my own device now that the curtain fell on this wonderful story.
Her writing keeps digging, like a furious fox terrier the depths and the folds of the relationship between Lena and Lila.
This writer has a ferocity and a depth that I've rarely encountered.
Book Four....The Final Conclusion to the Neapolitan novels:And so this story begins.....-[page 1]:"From October 1976 until 1979, when I returned to Naples to live, I avoided resuming a steady relationship with Lila.
Lila had never displayed the slightest interest in Dede and Elsa; almost certainly she didn't even remember their names.
I can't help but wonder if other readers -'had/have' a long term friendship of 40 to 50 years.
( that's a very sad story:.he died)....Lisi and I are still close friends -now in our 60's.
This is the fourth and final book in The Neapolitan Novels.
It is the final story of many of the characters that lived in this town and came in and out of Lila and Elena lives.I'm not sure how to feel about this one.
On one hand, I'm happy to hear more of the story of these two women and all the wonderful characters in the neighborhood.
Lila on the other hand, at times, I found her very mean.
I wanted more, I wanted the full details of the story.This is a wonderful series of books that I would tell anyone to read.
[From Celle qui fuit et celle qui reste] Whenever you read a book that the author seriously cared about, you realise after a while that in fact it's two books: there's the book that got written, the one you're holding in your hands, and there's the other book, the one the author wanted to write but couldn't, due to the problems inherent in being a mortal human being. Sometimes the distance between the two books is close enough that you can believe they're the same. (I don't know how one would i
Moving on to more recent cases, Wittgenstein famously apologised for not being able to write a better book than the Philosophical Investigations, which nonetheless is often cited as the twentieth century's most influential work of philosophy; and, a personal favorite, Jan Kjærstad's Jonas Wergeland trilogy gives you numerous clues about the nature of the true, ideal version of the book, and how it differs from the imperfect copy you have received.I think Elena Ferrante's L'amica geniale also belongs to this distinguished club.
(view spoiler)[(If you want to do this too, start by talking to Sophia at Looking for Lila.) (hide spoiler)] Laura, who grew up in the rione herself, comes to meet us: she is super friendly and, far from being offended by our desire to gawk at her childhood stomping-ground, which is what I'd been worried about, she actually seems rather touched by it, and is genuinely excited about the chance to show us around.
I am a little surprised, if only because, in the novels, the locals are not so happy when Lenù starts writing about the area.But of course, Elena Greco is not Elena Ferrante.
3.5 stars"I’ve been writing for too long, and I’m tired; it’s more and more difficult to keep the thread of the story taut within the chaos of the years, of events large and small, of moods.
So either I tend to pass over my own affairs to recapture Lila and all the complications she brings with her or, worse, I let myself be carried away by the events of my life, only because it’s easier to write them."Gosh, relationships - particularly those of the ‘girlfriends’ variety - are quite complex, aren’t they?
This book feels like the last gasp of someone who really wants to give up and say the hell with it- but can see the top of the mountain- and almost wishes she couldn’t, almost wishes that she had some excuse to sit down forever.Elena and Lila are no longer girls in any sense of the word- they have lived what would have been even just a few decades earlier the better part of their lives.
Posso esimermi dal dare un commento lucido e ragionato? Ho appena chiuso il volume. Ciò che sento è di aver lasciato una storia cattiva, smarginata, insalubre. È stato come guardare un pozzo nero, con qualche riflesso di luce appena che però mi ha abbagliato.
Brilliant, though I'm feeling a bit bereft now. Better review to follow, but for now I'll just say that this has been a year of great reads for me, highlighted boldly by Ferrante's Neapolitan Novels. Read them, trust me.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
There is a showcase full of people involved: the Grecos, Cerullos, Carraccis, Pelusos, Sarratores , and the path of tragedy and heartbreak is as difficult as it can get for all of them, no matter how well veneered their lives seemed to be.Lila and Elena completed their journey in this final book in the series.
The one thing Lila never did though, was write a book, in competition with Elena.
However, change did come, for all of them.In the end, when everything is said and done, the beeper on the monitor flat-lined for Elena and Lila's story.
Não é má, é o que posso dizer."Se um homem (genial), que diz, quase sempre, mal dos outros escritores, afirma que Ferrante não é má, poderemos deduzir que é muito boa?
A narradora, Lenù, após o desaparecimento da sua amiga Lila, decide escrever a história das suas vidas desde a infância até à velhice.
Eu escolhi a "minha" nas primeiras páginas e não me deixo convencer por Ferrante quando me diz que é a outra...2.
Eu tenho uma ideia (mas deve ser de jerico)."Ao contrário do que acontece nas histórias, a vida real, quando é passado, não se debruça sobre a claridade mas sim sobre a obscuridade."
There is nothing easy about relationships, marriages, having and raising families, living on tight budgets, deciding what career path to take, dealing with family members on drugs, raising kids who are young and becoming sexual, and in this particular environment in Naples, Italy in the 50's, friends and families with a lot of influence who are basically mobsters.
4. There is a lot of realistic and sometimes difficult to handle marriage and relationship situations, adultery, abandonment, way too much forgiveness of one particular womanizing fellow who affects the life of each of the girls who are becoming women.
One that struck me particularly hard: “A woman without love for her origins is lost.” But there are other home truths as well: “Love and sex are unreasonable and brutal.” and “It was a good rule not to expect the ideal but to enjoy what is possible.” and “How many words remain unsayable even between a couple in love?” Most moving here for me have been the stories of Alfonso, a gay man; of Lenù’s mother, Immacolata; and Lennucia's difficulty with her first love, Nino.
Women, Lenù finally realizes, after having his child, are Nino’s giddy enablers.
Ferrante deserves much of the praise, but, like any serious author, she also deserves criticism, because these are some deeply, deeply flawed novels.
But conjoining an earthquake with (another) personal disagreement between the protagonists of your novel is i) insensitive and disrespectful to the quake's victims, and ii) the kind of narrative move that Hollywood film makers dismiss as 'too obvious.' This is one of the two major flaws in these novels: they are, far too often, ridiculously melodramatic.
Of course, that nothing much happens really is a pretty major flaw in his books, and, like Ferrante, he often descends into melodrama.
For 2000 pages, however, Elena's style is like an extremely rational jackhammer, and I hope very much that Ferrante's example doesn't influence other writers.

I am saying a very sad farewell to the Neapolitan Novels. To say that Lenu and Lila's story gripped me it would an understatement. I was consumed by these books. I have never read anything like this before. It's hard to put into words what I felt when listening to these books. The thing is these novels are not perfect. But all the good, scratch that, all the great things far outweigh their imperfections, uncannily, making the novels feel more authentic, more impactful. These books will have a special place in my heart.
In this book, the narrator Elena becomes a lot more reflective, and the story is more about her children and their struggles than it is about Elena's and Lila's friendship.
I liked how this implies that Elena is growing up and starting to care more about the people around her, but at the same time this book just didn't click as well with me as the other ones.
There's no question that Elena and Lila have made an impact on me which will stay with me for a long time to come.
Não vislumbro outra forma de produzir esta escrita que se nos impõe sem pedir licença, que se nos mete pelos olhos e pelo cérebro adentro sem querer saber se estamos a gostar da história, das personagens, da linguagem...
Só sabemos que queremos ler mais e mais, e mais depressa para saber o que vai Lila dizer ou fazer a seguir, mas ao mesmo tempo não tão depressa que nos possa escapar alguma palavra, pois todas são preciosas.Ferrante conseguiu "escravizar-me" durante as últimas semanas e, por estranho que pareça, eu gostei de ser escravizada!Lá vou ter de comprar os outros livros desta autora, e vou ter de me refrear para não ficar intoxicada pela sua escrita, corro o risco de se acabar a "droga" e depois ter uma recuperação difícil!...A brilliant ending for this story!
Yet, as I read on, the full sentences, the obsessiveness, the narrator's male-female/female-male theory and, much later, an image of a storm obliterating the horizon of a violet sea reminded me of -- don't laugh -- Proust.When a recent commenter on my review of the earlier Those Who Leave and Those Who Stay agreed with my description of the series as a "hyperrealistic fever dream", I realized I wasn't as deep in this one, whether I'd gotten used to the style or perhaps an inherent something or other was different, I'm not sure.
«…Όποιος νιώθε ταμένος στις τέχνες και κυρίως στη λογοτεχνία, κρύβει μέσα αυτή την αλαζονεία: δουλεύει θαρρείς και έχει αναλάβει μία αποστολή, μα στην ουσία κανείς δεν του έχει αναθέσει το παραμικρό, ο ίδιος εξουσιοδότησε τον εαυτό του να γίνει συγγραφέας και παρόλα αυτά πικραίνεται όταν οι άλλοι του λένε: Αυτό το βιβλιαράκι που έγραψες δεν με ενδιαφέρει, η αλήθεια είναι ότι το βρίσκω βαρετό, ποιος σου έδωσε το δικαίωμα;…», τάδε έφη Λενού δια χειρός Έλενας Φερράντε, άρα αφού εγώ που δεν είμαι πα
«…Όποιος νιώθε ταμένος στις τέχνες και κυρίως στη λογοτεχνία, κρύβει μέσα αυτή την αλαζονεία: δουλεύει θαρρείς και έχει αναλάβει μία αποστολή, μα στην ουσία κανείς δεν του έχει αναθέσει το παραμικρό, ο ίδιος εξουσιοδότησε τον εαυτό του να γίνει συγγραφέας και παρ΄όλα αυτά πικραίνεται όταν οι άλλοι του λένε: Αυτό το βιβλιαράκι που έγραψες δεν με ενδιαφέρει, η αλήθεια είναι ότι το βρίσκω βαρετό, ποιος σου έδωσε το δικαίωμα;…», τάδε έφη Λενού δια χειρός Έλενας Φερράντε, άρα αφού εγώ που δεν είμαι παρά ένας ταπεινός αναγνώστης μια χαρά μπορώ να κρίνω το τελευταίο βιβλίο της τετραλογίας της Νάπολης.Η Φερράντε ξεκινάει ή μάλλον συνεχίζει την αφήγηση από κει που την είχε αφήσει με το ίδιο ύφος κι εγώ συνέχιζα να την διαβάζω μαγεμένο σαν να παρακολουθούσα την αφήγηση της ζωής μιας γερασμένης κυρίας που μιλάει για κάποια ωραία νοσταλγικά και παλαιικά.Η Λενού επιστρέφει στη Νάπολη, και μένει κολλημένη με το Νίνο, τόσο εμμονικά κολλημένη που ο τύπος την κοροϊδεύει ασύστολα και κείνη ‘γαμώ τη μόρφωση και την παιδεία της και τη φήμη της, κολλάει σαν γραμματόσημο πάνω του.
and the fall is just as miserable as one would expect.As far as I'm concerned, one of the main changes in this last book was my propensity to keep judging every character, as opposed to the constant sympathizing with them:- Lenu is a dismal mother figure.- Lila is way too happy with her role of stoic martyrdom, if only to stick it to anyone who pisses her off.- Elsa has made it her life goal to be the meanest person in existence, without completely stepping into outright villainy.- Adele is the most jealous (ex-)mother-in-law in the entire universe.
Repeatedly.Score: 5/5 starsI remember reading this book and getting mad at either Lenu or Lila, or even just the cruel fate of the neighborhood...
Ms. Ferrante struck me so personally (though not necessarily so profoundly) that I can't help but thinking again of a sentence I read in the reviews of this book that I wished I'd first written to describe the Neapolitan novels : "The depth of perception Ms. Ferrante shows about her characters' conflicts and psychological states is astonishing....
Her novels ring so true and are written with such empathy that they sound confessional." Wall Street J.I'll also add these 2 blurbs as really fitting from my point of view: 'If you haven't read Elena Ferrante, it's like not having read Flaubert in 1856...Incontrovertibly brilliant." National Post.‘The older you get, the harder it is to recapture the intoxicating sense of discovery that comes when you first read George Eliot, Nabokov, Tolstoy or Colette.
So ends the final part of the Neapolitan series in which I have been immersed, one after the other.
I feel I have lived alongside Lena and Lenu, have experienced their many trials and tribulations, have gazed up at Mt Vesuvius and heard the clatter of the neighbourhood.
I wonder if I will ever read another epic story of friendship and rivalry that will compare.I enjoyed it just for the story's sake - as in, what will happen NEXT?
But I also enjoyed its self-reflective and cerebral qualities.
So superb was the commentary on class, motherhood, feminism, sex, education and self.Bravo, signora Ferrante!
