https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22443261-the-rithmatist
Listened to this one on audio, vainly hoping beyond hope that I might finally read a Brandon Sanderson book I don't like so I can feel better about myself as an author.
I enjoyed this book as much as any of his.
Good worldbuilding, just as you'd expect from Sanderson.
Good mystery surrounding the world.
And I really like that things aren't easy for the protagonist.
He wants things at the beginning of the book, and at the end of the book, he still wants them.
Rating: 4.5 starsThis was such an enjoyable and fun read!
Sanderson’s created a character in Joel whose enthusiasm for explaining the strategy behind Rithmatic duels is just infectious (sure, he can also be described as an annoying know-it-all at first, but it's a redeeming flaw because I liked how he grows as and becomes a more rounded character, particularly once he begins interacting with Melody and Fitch), though it’s really because of what Sanderson does above and beyond every other fantasy writer approaching a magic system that makes the real difference.
It's nice to see a Young Adult story where two main characters of opposite gender can just exist without a shoehorned kissing scene, but otherwise, I don't see myself thinking about either of them much past the time it takes me to write this review.
In fact, I think I would've enjoyed the story a bit more if the protagonists had been younger because the plot felt so much like something out of Percy Jackson and the Olympians or The Children of the Red King.I suppose it was the atmosphere more than anything else.
The ending did a good job of tying up all the threads in the story, and introducing a new thread to be explored in a sequel.Throughout the book, without overwhelming the reader, Sanderson presents Rithmatic principles that help us understand his magic system in better detail.
the book includes renderings of some Rithmatic defenses, as well as chalklings drawn by some of the Rithmatist characters.
Sanderson put so much thought and detail into this magic system that I couldn't help being dragged along for the ride.Even before reading this book, I was a fan of Sanderson's.
"What good is having friends if they don't put you in mortal peril every once in a while?" I FLIPPING LOVE THIS BOOKThat's it.That's the review.
Must read 'The Rithmatist' for those who are:huge fan of Sandersonhuge fan of fantasy bookschildren (10 years old+)teenagersadultsThe magics of Rithmatics are very strange because I haven't seen this kind of magic before. The Rithmatist is an usual book. I haven't read this kind of fantasy book.This book has mixtured genres: fantasy, crime and mystery.My favourite characters are Joel and Melody.
The Rithmatist definitely reminded me of Hermione’s role in Harry Potter – very academically inclined and whenever she was around I felt like I learned a lot about magic.
The friendships formed in this book were also reminiscent of HP, and I especially love that Joel and Melody’s relationship was organic and atypical – very different from most YA.The book also had a fun “whodunit” style mystery that did a great job keeping me guessing all the way until the end.
With so many things keeping me glued to the pages, it’s no surprise I devoured it so quickly.Overall, The Rithmatist had a great mix of good characters, compelling mystery, and magic infusion.
Then students start disappearing from their rooms at night and as he is assigned to help the professor who is investigating the crime, Joel suddenly finds himself entangled in the mess.Besides the cool magic system, my favorite thing about this novel was Joel.
I also really liked Joel as a character though.
He starts off as a bit of a know-it-all and is quite smug about his own intelligence but goes through considerable character development and I was totally rooting for him all the way.
I really enjoyed the dynamics that developed between her and Joel and liked the fact that Sanderson didn’t make their relationship into a romance (at least not yet).
One of the reasons why fans of Brandon Sanderson (including yours truly) love him so much - when he gets into a writing funk he sidetracks himself by writing something completely different from his main project and it can result in a gem like this book.MG and YA are not my go-to genre and hence, I'm very selective when it comes to these books.
Ever since I've read The Way of Kings - one of the most character-driven books in epic fantasy - I've come to appreciate how my engagement with such fictional beings drive my enjoyment of the book.
4.5/5 starsI wasn't going to round up. I mean not every Sanderson's book can be 5 stars, right? Wrong. Because when it came down to the last pages I was tearing up...So I just had to.I thought that maybe because this was intended for younger readers (middle to young adult) it will be duller and not as interesting as his other series that I've read so far. I thought that I will read it and just think of it as a nice stand-alone book. I thought that there couldn't have possibly been another new an
I think that she actually turned out to be a great role model (in her own unique way).If I had to compare Melody to any other character in any other book, I'd say she is very much like Luna Lovegood (from Harry Potter series) - as they were both truly and unapologetically themselves.
"Unless you were the witch.”If you are not new to Brandon Sanderson's books you know that there is always that one character who loves books more than...well anything really.
Being a huge Sanderson fan, my thoughts were along the line of: there's no way, his magic is THE reason I love his novels, there's literally NO way.As it turns out, there does seem to be a way, although only just a bit.The magic of The Rithmatist is as creative as ever.
I've mentioned this before and I'll say it again, Sanderson's magic really takes on a life of its own in any of his books.
I love the characters in any given book, but it's the magic that makes me want to live in the world forever.
I loved this book.The story was solid and the world was AMAZING. So much fun to read, the characters were lovely. This book is technically young adult, but it is so unique and so focused on a beautiful and well thought out world, and not romance that I forgot sometimes while reading.
LONG STORY SHORT: THIS BOOK IS FUCKING AMAZING! DON'T BE STUPID. PICK THIS BOOK UP.  REACTION AFTER READING THE BOOK This book was fantastic. Everything about this book oozes with awesomeness! I mean, who would have thought chalk figures could be so menacing and scary? Who? Has it ever crossed your mind that chalk drawings could eat you, or worse, kill you? It hasn't for me. The concept just sounded so farfetched. Too weird. But this is Sanderson. I shouldn't have doubted his ability to make som
The story followed a boy named Joel who attended Armedius, a prestigious school who not only caters the rich, but also a special set of students chosen to study Rithmatics.
Despite Joel's love for the craft, he wasn't chosen, by this god-like person named the Master, to be a Rithmatist.
The book has this illustrated map of the new world Sanderson created which I think is called the United Isles?
The more you read the book, the more you learn about the world and its characters.
I don't know how Sanderson does it! To come up with a whole system of Rithmatics was brilliant. I didn't guess who the rogue Rithmatist was and I loved the main character Joel and his friend Melody working together. Looking forward to the sequel when it finally gets released.
2.5*'s with a rare round up. I just didn't think this was the usual Sanderson quality.
3.5/5 starsThis was a really enjoyable read!
The whole concept is so interesting - a really cool take on steampunk without actually being steam punk!I loved the reimagined US as islands and the whole world in general.The plot was interesting but (mostly) pretty predictable, Joel was an alright main character - not great though, and the story, while overall interesting, just didn't have enough meat to it.
It was a really great concept but the actually story played out had too many pacing issues for me.Was it an incredible book?
But was it really fun to read and enjoyable?
Absolutely.
This was good and ... different :DI loved the magic system! Even though it wasn't as good as the others magic systems created by him (in my opinion), it was entertaining and I WANT TO BE ABLE TO DO THAT! JUST FOR FUN! We get the opportunity to know a lot about this magic system but there's still a lot we don't know and the book ends with "TO BE CONTINUED". NOOOOOOOOOOSeems like we still need to wait a few years for a sequel :( "So someday I will get to this, but it’s going to require some alignm
This was good and ...
different :DI loved the magic system!
Even though it wasn't as good as the others magic systems created by him (in my opinion), it was entertaining and I WANT TO BE ABLE TO DO THAT!
We get the opportunity to know a lot about this magic system but there's still a lot we don't know and the book ends with "TO BE CONTINUED".
NOOOOOOOOOOSeems like we still need to wait a few years for a sequel :(
(from State of the Sanderson 2017)Brandon Sanderson, write something about a sequel on this year's State of the Sanderson, please.
"Description begins in the writer’s imagination, but should finish in the reader’s."Brandon Sanderson has hit a home run here in this awesome world of chalk, just sick with possibility.
He drops you into this world of chalk drawings that come to life, possess power and threaten the main protagonists, who also duel and defend in chalk.
These protagonists, the people of whom I speak, are interesting; possess a depth that contradicts Sanderson’s sparse prose.
Get in your circle, imagine well, your chalkings, then plan and maintain your offense.
Our main characters are Joel who is not a Rithmatist but wants to be and Melody who is one and does not care.
The story reads like a mystery and, as is the case with the best mysteries, the author convinces us totally that one individual is the guilty party and then right at the end says "Haha, fooled you!" All in all a very enjoyable book and the only reason that it is a four star instead of five star book for me is that it is very much aimed at a young reader.
De entrada ya sabía que, una vez más, Sanderson me iba quitar horas de sueño.
Siento que Sanderson pudo haber explotado mucho más lo que creó.
Podría haber hecho un libro bastante más largo.
Espero que en el siguiente aborde temas que quedaron un poco a la deriva en este, porque tiene asuntos muy interesantes por extender.El final es lo único que no me gustó del libro.
Sanderson engendró una obra con mucho contenido, entonces confiaba en que iba a concluir con algo más complejo.
Sin embargo me sorprendió.En suma, un muy buen libro.
Magicians' power is derived from chalk lines and drawings that obey the maker and affect the real world.The Rithmatist tells the story of Joel, a normal guy whose greatest wish was to become a Rithmatist, a chalk wizard.
Since Joel was not selected to learn Rithmatism, he dedicates his time to studying as much as he can about the world that's forbidden to him.
Sanderson also devoted much thought to Joel's mother, who struggles with grief, debt, and worry for her son.
The supporting characters, Melody and Fitch, were more likable than Joel if you ask me.
I especially liked the contrast between Melody, a Rithmatist student who doesn’t take her studies seriously, and Joel, who lacks Rithmatist powers.The story, setting, and magic system also reminded me a bit of The Name of The Wind – especially the part where Kvothe attends magic school and studies a rigidly structured magic with specific rules.The world is pretty similar to our world near the turn of the century with magical elements added to it.
It almost feels a bit like 20th century England with parts of Lord of the Rings added into the geography.Overall, The Rithmatist is a fantastic book that will guarantee to keep both adults and kids entertained.
Awesome YA read. I need him to write the sequel already!!!
Good ol' Sanderson. I'll be drawing chalklings and lines in my office building in the next week or so. I hope nobody cares.
I certainly enjoy most things about this book...
all except for the chalkling things.
Just when it came to the chalklings being these big scary things that have terrorized the world, I wasn't feeling it.
I am not sure if the idea was not fully developed enough in the book or maybe it was lacking something, maybe a detail of the world.
The characters are fantastic.
They made it very easy to look past the whole chalkling parts.
I would rate it 3.5 stars if I could.This was my first Brandon Sanderson book.
Definitely will be reading more Brandon Sanderson.
The more I read his books, the more convinced I am he's not from this world.
His creativity amaze me every time!If Harry Potter, CSI Sanderson and Steampunk had a baby, it wouldn't be this book but it would be a close call.
It's YA after all, so while the magic system and world building are perfection, the story is simple and captivating at the same time, so this will take you minutes to read.
You heard me, MINUTES.Both Joel and Melody are unbelievable mature and brilliant teenagers and as any Sanderson book, the story is enthralling since page one.
Joel saving the world again and again...
Magic System and World Building.
I recommend Sanderson to the nth degree. N being whatever you like, because he friggin rocks. This novel rocks and I'm now convinced the man can't write a bad book. I read it through audio, but it didn't matter. The diagrams that were so essential to the action were still very clear and fascinating. Again, his magic systems soar. It was a near perfect win.
Go buy a copy of Mistborn and then after you have read that and probably also binge-read all his other books, return here and nod knowingly.Longer review:Rithmatics : definitionA magic system that uses chalk circles, lines, and drawings known as chalklings or lines of making.I won’t go into the details of how Rithmatics works as it is explained thoroughly throughout the book, but the basics is that Rithmatists can draw shapes, objects and creatures and give them power.
It was that simple.Boys or girls with the power are sent off to one of eight schools that teach Rithmatics, with Armedius being the premier establishment.
I thought it was the equivalent of an American senator but once they started talking about the incident being a potential international issue I began to think that maybe a knight-senator was an ambassador of some sort, maybe England.Then, there was the Rithmatic “non-religion.” The plot glossed over religious conflicts, probably because it didn't want to bog down the pacing.
Not only was it majorly reckless, it was a kick in the suspension-of-disbelief’s knee that Joel was a poor student.I did not like how he was so into his passion that he showed little understanding for why people did not share his passion, why one in particular, Melody, would not want to be a Rithmatist, hate it in fact.
