https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10079321-the-magician-king
In the first book, Quentin was a brilliant but disillusioned teenager who found life a boring slog and desperately wished that things were more like his favorite fantasy series set in a magical land called Fillory.
It seemed like Quentin had forgotten everything he’d suffered and learned in the first book, and he was once again an obsessed nerd who is convinced that he’d be happy if he could live like he’s in a fantasy novel.
first off, new co-protagonist The Completely Self-Absorbed Bitch is actually pretty interesting and her parallel flashback adventures are often enthralling.
much like a creative, outsider-type teenager - full of unearned cynicism and irritating snarkiness, but also full of vibrant energy, a host of ideas, and a fresh, sometimes even brilliant way of looking at things.so, when all is said and done, i'd actually recommend this book as an interesting and often enjoyable experience.
but i'd have to give a big disclaimer before recommending it - a disclaimer delivered with a little snark and a lot of eye-rolling.
First, if you didn't like the first one? Pass!You're not going to suddenly fall in love with these characters or this style of depressed storytelling. But for those of you who loved  The Magicians, or maybe even those of you who were on the fence, I think this will be a winner for you. Because instead of starting out in Hogwarts and ending up in Narnia, this one is basically just a huge adventure quest, so it doesn't leave that odd sort of fractured plotline taste in you mouth.  Not saying that
Yeah, he can still act like a whiny douchebag, but compared to his maudlin attitude before, he's positively chipper this time around!
Instead of drugs, she was infected with an addiction to magic, but the end result was the same.
Just like any other addiction, she was absorbed with it to the point of not only destroying herself, but the lives of everyone who loved her.
Loved it!And after reading the preview chapters for the next book, I can say that I'm definitely excited to see how this all wraps up!
Not only does Grossman tell the story of Quentin rising to the occasion and stopping his rampant douche-baggery, he also tells the harrowing tale of Julia's own rise to magical prowess after her failure during the Brakebills exam.
Then it all clicked and I was hooked, devouring the book in two extended sittings.Quentin rises above his roots in The Magician King, finally becoming someone we actually like reading about.
More on that in the spoilers section.Grossman did a ton of world-building in The Magician King.
What Julia and her friends summoned, however, was pretty unexpected.I liked Penny's reappearance and the revelations about the Neitherlands, the gods, and the Order.
It's both a criticism & an endorsement of the "happy ending" we've come to respect so much in our stories.It's kind of dreadful to read a tale like this that is both depressing & beautiful at the same time.
I know this story isn't going to speak to everyone, and I think it's easy to get bogged down in the smaller details before the larger picture comes into view, 
Therefore, it was a big disappointment, and a bit of a surprise, that I really didn't like it much at all.The Magician King picks up some time after the end of the first book.
Some chapters branch off into Julia's history, which I wanted to be interested in, but the book never quite shakes off the feeling that she's secondary to Quentin, plus she's just not very likeable - not to mention the fact that her story goes beyond ridiculous in the end.And then there's the way it's all written, which I could talk about forever.
A book has never made me so angry before. I am absolutely bewildered that 93% of people like this book. No offense, but I think you all deserve a fucking double-slap across the face. This was, hands down, the worst book I've ever read. Where is the zero star possibility, Goodreads? Because, for this shitty fucking book, we need one. In The Magicians, I felt that Lev Grossman was actually a beautiful writer, and that's one of the reasons I gave it two measly stars. Here, though, Grossman just sh
Why in the fucking world would Julia, a twenty-something year old magician described as "a freight train of magical pedagogy," use a rock to break into a sports car?
We should also talk about the fucking ideas you stole, Mr. Grossman, but, you know, after reading The Magicians, I wouldn't expect anything less.
We better stop now.") (hide spoiler)] and it takes fucking 80% of the book to set this one thing up?
This series can be really frustrating because it takes everything you expect and think you know and goes "....nah." I enjoyed this book so much more than the first one.
The characters, while still realistic and frustrating, grew on me a lot and I found myself really caring for them.
The introduction of a "new" character was also a great addition as well, and I enjoyed learning about their backstory.
I noticed a lot of connections being made between situations and characters in this book already, so I'm excited to see the conclusion and how everything is going to be wrapped up.
Honestly, he was decent-looking, better-looking than he thought he was, but that moody boy-man Fillory shit cut like zero ice with her, and she was smart enough to know whose problem that was, and it wasn’t hers.”Julia is casting a few stones at our hero Quentin, but Quentin is relatively stable compared to the snarled mess of snakes that are rolling around in her head.
(Technically she does show him her breasts, but not under the circumstances that was part of a romantic interlude.)The golden key quest goes sideways and Julia and Quentin are zipped out of Fillory and back to...OMG...Earth.
(I could never tell if the sexism was supposed to be Quentin's voice, or if it was latent from the author.
I suspect the latter.) At first, I thought Julia was going to be a manic-pixie-dream-girl to replace Alice (who filled that role in the first book, and who was my favorite character.
The main story was fast paced, and learning about Julia's magical underground, and her group of friends, was really interesting.Then the book totally blindsided me.
At the end, Julia is raped.
Julia lost her humanity from a rape.
When the book started I thought I had missed something, since it was an idyllic picture of life in Fillory, where Quentin and Julia were co-rulers of the magical world, together with Eliot and Janet.
In a sense, all the characters are on a quest of their own, but we get the opportunity to concentrate on Quinton, always questing for that elusive "something better, something more", while rarely noticing the blessings in his life, and Julia, on a quest for much more than just Magic, a search for her complete self.
It seemed like the author had much more of a purpose and idea where he wanted to lead with the story, thus controlling the action and pacing much better.
I read  The Magicians in 2014, I thought it was pretty good but, like many Goodreads reviewers, I disliked the protagonist Quentin Coldwater.
This second volume, The Magician King, has a much smaller readership (less than half of book#1 according to GR’s number of ratings), but a higher average score of 3.89.
More interesting still, the final volume  The Magician's Land again has a reduced readership, but an average rating of 4.17.
He somehow fell into that enviable position where his fantasy work was considered literary by the mainstream community that often scorns genre work.A sequel, it would seem to me, is more of a declaration.
I liked the main characters better than I did in the first book.
It was interesting to see Julia's side of the story, largely untold in the first book, though I got frustrated with elements of her journey as well.
Four because Quentin had a better arc than in the first book.
(hide spoiler)] I'm going to go with the four, but know that it is a star with an asterisk.
I love that this series is like a more "realistic" fairy tale where not everything is perfect and amazing all the time, but it's still not really an anti-fairy tale.The characters are still wonderfully flawed, and I really enjoyed getting to see more of Julia's back story, but it was just harder to get through.
It didn't grip me as much as book one did.The audiobook narrator is still fantastic though - I don't know if I would've liked it as much reading the physical book.Will definitely be reading book 3, however, because THAT ENDING THO
I absolutely loved the drama of that final scene, with Eliot, Janet and Julia hovering thirty stories up in the air and shattering Quentin’s office window to drag him along on this new adventure.The Magicians left lots of questions unanswered.
Once Lev Grossman has set up Quentin’s quest, roughly every other chapter starts filling in Julia’s story, recounting what happened to her between her failed entrance exam at Brakebills and the final scene of The Magicians.
Book two is fulled with even more sexism then the first one, which is almost hard to imagine, but Lev Grossman manages to pull it off by writing like some kind of horny per-pubescent teenager looking for any flimsy excuse whatsoever to get his female characters topless so he can describe their breasts in feverish, obsessive, totally unnecessary and excruciating detail.
The book itself is divided into two more or less equal story halves: one follows Quentin and his friends in Fillory as they go on a diplomatic mission of purely cursory import that turns into a fairly inconsequential 'quest'…this in turn ends up having wider ramifications (though it didn’t totally pull together for me…or to be more precise in many ways it pulled together a little too neatly); the second flashes back to show us what Quentin's old friend Julia was up to while Quentin was doing the Harry Potter shuffle at Brakebills.
In the Magician Kings we meet up with Quentin and friends again, this time as kings and queens of Fillory.
Fillory is a magical place outside of Earth as we know it.
I found this king and queen stuff corny, and I still couldn't stand the whiny, self absorbed Quentin......twerp.
But things thankfully picked up for the last half of the book.Julia's story saved this book for me.
Julia is one of Quentin's high school friends who took the Breakbills (think Hogwarts at the college level) entrance exam, but failed.
I got soooooo mad and weird when I read The Magicians five years ago, I swore I would never read any sequels, or anything else Lev Grossman ever wrote, and then somewhere along the line I changed my mind, acquired the sequels (in hardcover even) and decided to re-read.
Essentially, Quentin has to grow up, and he has to do it the hard way.Another thing that elevates this book above the first one is that half of it is Julia's story.
I thought the parallel narratives actually worked really well together, as Quentin and Julia et al go questing in a very Voyage of the Dawn Treader meta sort of way in the present day story, right alongside the flashbacks into Julia's magical education.
In no particular order: I am insulted on behalf of us non-magical scholars that the Murs magicians come up with a system that ties together all world religions and beliefs in a matter of months; I am deeply fucking offended by Grossman's portrayal of Free Trader Beowulf and the policing of depression he describes; I am even more offended by the rape scene, which was just gratuitous.
Seriously, it adds nothing to the narrative.)Poppy is the only goddamn redeeming feature here, and I lose a lot of respect for her in the last pages, when she walks away from her dissertation on dragons to be a queen in Fillory.
"So Madeline," say you, my imaginary reading companion, "what did you think of The Magician King, Lev Grossman's sequel to that book that smashed your childhood love of fantasy stories into smithereens?
Does the second book achieve similar levels of heart-crushing, or is it more of a balm after the pain of the first book (since in this one, the kids get to live in Fillory and be royalty)?"To you, faithful reader, I reply that everything you need to know about what kind of book The Magician King is can be found in the following excerpt: "'This isn't how it ends!' Quentin said.
1.5/5 but closer to 2 Like the first it succeeded in entertainment but not much else. There wasn't so much as plot holes as insufficient fillers that seemed a little rushed. It wasn't enough to take me out of the story but I did ask myself a few times while reading this what the point was with a few scenes and why certain things were explained in such detail while more important elements were just glossed over.
In the first book, Grossman took a lot of time to set up his fantasy multiverse, including creating a quidditch-like game, Welters, which didn't add anything to the overall story, and sending Quentin-and-company on a semester abroad to the antarctic as geese, which, despite being in a fantasy novel, was still too ridiculous to be taken seriously (it was the Tom Bombadil moment of the first book).
(view spoiler)[And the one sex scene that is shown is the rape of Julia by the fox-god, which is integral to the overall plot of the second book as well as to Julia's character development.
Running alongside this is an episodic, analeptic retracing of what Julia was up to during the events of the first book – her story does a lot to flesh out Grossman's world and his idea of magic, and her narrative offers a very welcome counterpoint to Quentin's point of view (though he, too, has noticeably matured from the adolescent dick he was in book one).
Who didn’t make it into special people magic school like Quentin, and who had to force her way into power by a completely different route.
Quentin says early on that magic school had “taught them to be arch and ironic about magic, but Julia took it seriously.” Well, of course.
That was a judgment on the test, not on her.” Which is a pithy summary of being on the wrong end of privilege, if I’ve ever heard one.My point being that this book is arch and ironic about fantasy literature, right up to the point where it takes it deadly seriously.
The first book in this series, The Magicians, started out soooooooo slllloooooowwwwwlllllyyyy.But wh
For those familiar with the series, Mr. Grossman flip-flops between the actions of Quentin Coldwater and a back-story on Julia, who was a minor character in “The Magicians.” This was effective, as I became enmeshed in both tales and was easily compelled to read chapter after chapter.
Besides, “The Magicians” is an awesome read.I found Julia to be as interesting a character as Quentin.
In the realm of characterization, Mr. Grossman is king.Yes, this is the same series that the television series “The Magicians” is based on, although from watching the first season, there are changes not only in the story but also in the mood.
Unfortunately, the plot keeps running afoul of that great mechanism in the sky being cranked by a great silvery being.I keep thinking about that one line from the first book where Alice complained at Quentin that he was the only student in the school who truly believed in magic, despite the fact that all the actual practitioners performed magic daily.
He is the antithesis of love.On the other hand, Julia was probably one of the most delightful of characters in either novel, and I did get the feel of complete obsession and grasping joy surrounding the magic she had been denied, like an addict or a spurned lover.
I did like Quentin more in this book, but he'll never be a favorite hero of mine.
And in a strange way, Quentin turns out to be a true friend to her in a way that she never was to him.Grossman is a very good writer.
It's all and good to keep a reader reading because of witticisms and clever ideas, along with entrancing imagery, but many people read books because want a hero to root for.
Also that mental superiority of the characters gets pretty old.Why do I keep reading these books?
Executive Summary: A few minor complaints, but overall another enjoyable entry in this series, and far less depressing. If you enjoyed the second half of The Magicians, you'll likely enjoy this.Audio book: Mark Bramhall once again does an excellent job narrating, making this a perfect choice to do in audio. Great inflection, and pretty good accents. Full Review This one started a bit slow for me. I wasn't really sure where it was going to go. Once it got going, it didn't slow down again.I think
If you enjoyed the second half of The Magicians, you'll likely enjoy this.Audio book: Mark Bramhall once again does an excellent job narrating, making this a perfect choice to do in audio.
It gave me a bit of that "magic school" trope that I love so much despite being essentially the complete opposite.Once again though I think Mr. Grossman takes this a bit too far for a sense of realism or something?
I don't feel like they added anything to the story, but that sense of gloomy malaise that bothered me in the first book.Thankfully it's not nearly as constant or as thick.
