https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1240585.I_Thought_of_Daisy
However, as I read pages and pages of his thoughts trying to choose between Rita and Daisy, I could not help but see my young self in the narrator.
Wilson was able to put on paper what are the thoughts that go on in a young man's brain, what are the risks that he'd like to avoid or minimize, what are the fears that accompanies his decisions, what are the hopes that he likes to achieve in entering a relationship.Then yesterday, while I was reading the second half of the book (this classic American novel is actually a one long narration without any chapters), I googled the author and found out that this is a disguised autobiography.
Each chapter represents a recollected moment, usually a day or a night long.1 Party at Daisies and start of relationship with Rita – span in time: night to morning2 break up with Rita and starting with Daisy – day and evening3 Party at Sues and disappointment with Daisy – evening and night4 Discussion with professor philosophy, meeting Pete and Daisy who live now together.
– afternoon - evening - morning5 A hot summer day with Daisy at Coney Island, and finally making love to her (even though she is engaged to Pete) – day and eveningStoryThe book has five chapters.
A blow by blow account of what goes on in a young man's mind as he falls in love with one women, out again and in with another of an entirely different type! But another take on the novel is that it is a "coming of age" story of Edmund Wilson's early adult and professional life where for the first time he decides for himself how he will viewAmerican society and the world.
I THOUGHT OF DAISY. (1929). Edmund Wilson. ****. This was an early work of Wilson’s (1895-1972), who later went on to fame and fortune when he wrote “Memoirs of Hecate County.” That was a novel that shocked America, but at least gained Wilson the readership he deserved. He is read today primarily for his literary criticsm. If you don’t know him, the Library of America has published an excellent collection of his works. Anyway...this novel, written in the first person, is about our narrator’s exp
He, like others of his age group, is a drinker and party-goer, and meets a young woman, Rita Cavanaugh at a party in the Village to which he has been invited by a friend of his, Hugo Bamman, to help him get introduced around.
He finds his thoughts constantly going back to another young woman, Daisy, whom he also met at the first party.
When our narrator’s affair with Rita sours, he turns to Daisy as someone he decides he wants to try, but finds she isn’t willing to give up on her current loser to foist herself on him.
This was a very interesting look into the 1920's life in Greenwich Village. The characters were very entertaining and enlightening as they partied on during the days of prohibition and American communism. We also get a glimpse into the narrator's thoughts as he is trying to decide between two women he is in love with (Rita Cavanaugh or Daisy Coleman). The book is very well written and I recommend it for anyone interested in the time period.
If you've read enough Dostoyevsky, and Shakespeare and all the other authors and thinkers referenced in this novel, than the bits where the characters are tossing grand ideas around make sense, because you understand what ideas they are reacting to or utilizing.
Actually I read the second half twice, because the first time 'round I found the characters too tedious to focus on very closely.
They were all acting so unbearably 'young' and stupid and I was dealing with family holiday stuff and had no patience for such dumb characters and their dramas.Actually the second time through, I liked this book.

The book ends with the main character asking Daisy to run away with him, she says no even though she asked him to run away with her three pages ago because I don't fucking know, bitches be crazy, and he loses her mouth organ, which she's vaguely unhappy about because she wanted to show her boyfriend that she could play it.
And the book ends on the mouth organ.
He left an actual mouth organ that they won at the fair in the taxi and she's mildly disappointed about it.
Now you don't have to read this book unless you're dying to know what his thoughts on sonnets are.
I always end up picking out books like these because the words "Greenwich Village" and "1920's" pop out to me on jacket blurb. I find myself reading the book and enjoying small details about daily life in the city back then, and believe me, this book was full of them, but it wasn't enough to keep me interested for more than a few pages. I finished the book so I wouldn't feel like too much of a Philistine, but it was a chore getting through the long passages of the narrator's trenchant internal monologues. Dude, keep it for your Xanga.
Simply brilliant with its brilliance increasing with each subsequent read. Edmund Wilson gives you a window into the world of authors, poets, and intellectuals in 1920s Greenwich Village, NYC. A series of vignettes that all come together in one sweet moment in the final pages.
