https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18423.The_Left_Hand_of_Darkness
The question that permeates Le Guin's 1969 sensational for its time novel about the ambisexual society is what remains once the male and the female labels are stripped away?  What is underneath the labels - is it simply humanity? 'Androgynous' - Which is how I could not help but picture the Gethenians. "A man wants his virility regarded, a woman wants her femininity appreciated, however indirect and subtle the indications of regard and appreciation. On Winter they will not exist. One is respecte
The question that permeates Le Guin's 1969 sensational for its time novel about the ambisexual society is what remains once the male and the female labels are stripped away?
Neither man nor woman, neither and both, cyclic, lunar, metamorphosing under the hand's touch, changelings in the human cradle, they were no flesh of mine, no friends; no love between us."
He tries to view the Gethenians as male, and is appalled at all the femininity that he sees in them, feeling that it is wrong, inferior, alien to him.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------The Left Hand of Darkness is a deep story of humanity, love, betrayal, alienation, and acceptance.
“I'll make my report as if I told a story, for I was taught as a child on my homeworld that Truth is a matter of the imagination.”  I can't say why it's taken me so many years to finally get to The Left Hand of Darkness.
Perhaps because every time I passed it in a bookstore or library it looked like a typical dated 1960s sci-fi novel.
But it is so much more than that.This book is quite astonishing.
Hannah Gadsby has made me reluctant to say "ahead of its time" but if any book is ahead of its ti
The Left Hand of Darkness is definitely a tough read at times, especially in the beginning when Le Guin throws in Gethenian terms without explanation and leaves us to work out what they're referring to.
The world is so rich in detail that it becomes an adventure to explore it, and the nuanced character dynamics keep the pages turning.The story is about Genly Ai, a male human envoy, who is sent to Gethen to persuade the Gethenians to join the Ekumen union.
The plot is definitely dynamic and a lot happens over the course of 330 pages, but I do think the book's strength lies in how Le Guin explores character interactions.
But you can only read so many space operas and pretentious near futures before it gets to you a little.And then you decide to give an author a go because of some weird research string you were on...
LeGuin approaches sci-fi as it should be; a thought experiment.
I have no idea how she does it and am now rather enamored with this author.As for the book itself, it approaches more than the simple issue of gender; it's almost zen-like, with an exploration of a duality in a whole.
Best book I've read in a long while.
Le Guin has demonstrated again how she can create a science fiction fantasy novel that is both entertaining and enlightening, using the fantasy as a vehicle to explore social and psychological themes, and to state observations about our culture as metaphor.
Ray Bradbury noted that to distinguish between science fiction and fantasy, fantasy is the larger genre, a mere impressionistic lens through which we can better view our world.
In this sense, Le Guin uses TLHOD to speak to us just under the surface about a great many subjects: sexuality, social mores, violence, politics, psychology, religion, and anthropology.
The setting is another planet in the future, but right from the start, mentions of rain and reign contributed to the non-sci-fi feel.There were some some fascinating ideas, but I felt they weren't really developed.
Also, the multiple names of many people and places made it a little less reader-friendly than it might have been.PLOTGenly Ai is a single human envoy sent to very cold planet (Gethen, aka Winter) to see if the humanoids there want to join the inter-planetary alliance, the Ekumen (etymologically related to "ecumenical").
Left Hand of Darkness is a gorgeous sci-fi novel of political intrigue, heroism, and humanity that works like an anthropological study complete with folktales and history as Le Guin creates a unique society, enabling her to take a probing look at gender roles, religion, and bureaucracy and their configurations in oppression and nationalism.
It is also postulated that “the dominant factor in Gethenian life is not sex or any other human thing: it is their environment...here man has a crueler enemy even than himself,” Whatever the cause--and both are likely part of the systemic whole--Gethen has not known war, though the King of Karhide does fear loss of power and many in both countries are scheming and cooking up ways to become mightier than the other.
But not until Le Guin familiarized me with Ekumen envoy Genly Ai and Gethenian citizen, ambisexual Estraven's mutual suspicion of each other was I able to pinpoint the cause of my visceral dread in that cab years ago.
I thank that anonymous person years ago, whose humanity we have whittled down to the distinctness of his-her gender, for causing me to take notice of injustices I help perpetuate every moment with my ignorance and indifference.
From an aesthetic perspective, she uses it as a metaphor.From all points of view, she is interested in gender as the arena of power and its abuse.Just My ImaginationLe Guin's dual ambitions were supportive of each other.In order to explore the possibilities of "ambisexuality", she had to construct a whole new sexual, social and political world that was materially different from the known world.
It is largely a vehicle to allow the differences in sexual, social and political characteristics to be showcased.Most of it is portrayed in alternating journal entries by Estraven or sections from Ai’s official report:"I'll make my report as if I told a story, for I was taught as a child on my homeworld that Truth is a matter of the imagination.
“The only thing that makes life possible is permanent, intolerable uncertainty: not knowing what comes next. Is Ursula K. Le Guin’s The Left Hand of Darkness only a science fiction story? Far from it, and that is why I enjoyed it so much. Oh, I like reading science-fiction, sometimes just for the entertainment of it. But this goes much beyond that. Different from some reviews, for me it did not seem a feminist advocacy. I would venture and say it is an anti-prejudice assertion. It is just a bri
Le Guin’s The Left Hand of Darkness only a science fiction story?
It is just a brilliant, endearing novel about people, relationships, and desires; that leads to insight and questionings on plenty of topics.
Le Guin’s narrator is Ekumen’s envoy Genly Ai, a young man from Earth, that is in Gethern, on Winter, to bring the planet to his multi-world federation.
He is labeled a traitor and has to flee to the entirely different culture of Orgoreyn, where behind every man is the inspector.Genly and Estraven’s relationship grows from mutual suspicion to a deep friendship, and I found captivating to be along with them as their bond evolves.
In view of her interests including cultures, ecology, anthropology, Zen philosophy LeGuin writes  humanistic  science fiction, focused on creating unusual social models and analyzing living in them people.
That way  The Left Hand of Darkness  can be read as a cross between a philosophical parable and anthropological and sociological report, only wrapped up in sf costume.Main protagonist and narrator ( in fact there are two narrators ), like a galaxy Marco Polo, arrives at the planet Gethen also called Winter.
Light is the left hand of darkness...
Harlan Ellison famously hated the term 'sci fi', scorning the implication that his stories had anything in common with Flash Gordon or Lost in Space.In Speculative Fiction, technology is not there to facilitate the plot, or to dazzle readers with fantasy, but to provide the author with an opportunity to explore the human mind in unexpected, innovative ways.
The Should I Read This Book Quiz: Ursula Le Guin is considered a Very Important science fiction writer for her anthropological chops, and The Left Hand of Darkness her classic in which a lone representative of the Ekumen is sent down to a heretofore un-contacted planet to convince its denizens to join this interplanetary human collective.
I really don’t know why you haven’t read The Left Hand of Darkness yet, unless you are a sexist pig or one of those people who think all science fiction is people in rubber suits and Star Wars and therefore not smart enough for you.2.
Light is the left hand of darkness,And darkness the right hand of light. On the distant world of Winter, ambisexual beings have lived in solitude for as long as anyone can remember. This peace is shattered when an envoy arrives from the Ekumen, offering the nations of Winter the opportunity to join a vast alliance of thousands of worlds…This book was my first foray into the science fiction works of Ursula K. Le Guin, already one of my favourite authors. I did not find it quite as strong as the
I did not find it quite as strong as the Earthsea books, but that is mostly a matter of personal preference, as the focus of the books are quite different.The books in the so-called Hainish cycle are set on a variety of pre-spacefaring planets, and the reader experiences their interactions with the highly technologically developed outside perceived through the eyes of both agents of the Ekumen, the League of All Worlds, and indigenous citizens of the planets themselves.
And in that aspect I have never seen her succeed like she does in The Left Hand of Darkness.More than anything, the book theorises on the answers to questions about human nature.
Even their politics interest me, and I don’t normally like political SF, even Le Guin’s own  The Dispossessed is something of a drag for me.When I first read The Left Hand Of Darkness a few years ago I really liked the beginning and the end of the book, but there is a long section of around 50 pages in the second half of the book that depicts the two main characters’ trek across eight hundred miles of glacier that I found (at the time) to be very slow going, and a chore to get through; much like how our two heroes feel about their journey.
Wow, there's a lot about this novel that I hadn't remembered.
Like, basically the entire plot, other than the bare-bones outline.I'm going to stick with 4 stars here.
Review to come.Initial post: Next up read from Ursula K.
Le Guin: The Hainish Novels and Stories.* This one I read back in my college days, so my memories of it are pretty hazy.
So this'll be almost like reading it for the first time!*I received a free copy of this collection from the publisher for review.

Firstly on account of an affair with a sibling - while most of the time sexless, the people have a sexual cycle and at a certain time of month develop desires and capacities which are otherwise dormant - and then as a political refugee.Despite, or maybe because of, their personal alienation these are the two who are committed to the idea of this wider community, the Ekumen of worlds.These are the two who travel together through the planet's Arctic circle who share a mission, an ideal but also their isolation as they are divided by the most basic notions and preconceptions including gender.
LeGuin’s genius is that she explores the implications of this “thought experiment” from so many angles, examining politics, war, economic development, friendship, love, loyalty, betrayal, all against the backdrop of a planet trapped in a relentless Ice Age, which also shapes the two nations of Karhide and Orgoreyn that features prominently in the story.The Left Hand of Darkness centers around Genly Ai, an Envoy from the Ekumen, a loosely-linked association of 85 human-inhabited worlds.
What is the first thing we ask when a child is born? - GENDER The six-letter word, not the three-letter word "sex" of the child - because gender involves our perception of what the child will be, our expectations of what roles the child will perform in the future - the life of the child is determined right away when we ask this question. As Judith Butler puts it, Gender is Performance.But imagine a world where genders can be changed at will - an androgynous world where humans remain in neuter g

I’m probably missing the whole gist of this book because it basically flew right over my head, but I’m sure if I read a few analyses of it I’d enjoy it more!
Thus the world of Winter is unlike our own in climate and culture.Though there are guaranteed to be thought pieces, theses, and reviews that have put it more eloquently than myself, The Left Hand of Darkness is a different breed of sci-fi.
Where other books would spend time with physical conflict, The Left Hand of Darkness relishes in the expansion of Genly’s personal understanding of gender.It certainly makes for as topical a read today as it did when first published back in 1969.
There is a bit of suffering involved in the reading of The Left Hand of Darkness.
I hated the harsh, intricate, obstinate demands that he made on me in the name of life. 4.5/5This is no The Dispossessed, a judgment equal parts quality of the work and personal taste of the reader, unfair and yet true if one keeps in mind that, regardless of individual ratings, I regard Le Guin as a gift to literature. Plenty are the authors who forge ahead with little regard for the reader, nearly ubiquitous are the ones who stay stolidly put in the kiddy pool out of want and necessity, leavi
4.5/5This is no The Dispossessed, a judgment equal parts quality of the work and personal taste of the reader, unfair and yet true if one keeps in mind that, regardless of individual ratings, I regard Le Guin as a gift to literature.
Slowly but surely the narrator breaks the binds of his upbringing in order to appreciate the freedom beyond inexorable duality, handled in such a wonderfully constructed melding of thought, prose, and world building that any reader inclined to reading will find something to enjoy.
Genly Ai is an emissary of the Ekumen (a union of human worlds) to planet Gethen, or Winter (called so for its extremely cold climate).
However Genly is met with some reserve as the decision to join is hindered by alien to him intricacies of Gethenian politics and culture.
At the time of kemmer each Gethenian can become either male or female.
As the story progresses, Genly learns to understand this strange world a little better and even finds love.I was extremely impressed by Le Guin's imagination.
DNF 😠 This book began by lecturing me—for just about 12 minutes—on what science fiction was/wasn't and telling me that authors are liars.
By 7:32 into the first chapter, which was narrated by what sounded to me like a very disinterested, very old man, I was done.
The Left Hand of Darkness tells the story of a lone human emissary to Winter, an alien world whose inhabitants can choose - and change - their gender.
Embracing the aspects of psychology, society, and human emotion on an alien world, The Left Hand of Darkness stands as a landmark achievement in the annals of intellectual science fiction.
To fans of feminist and political science fiction, it is more than a classic - it is a touchstone, a founding document, a rallying post.It follows Genly Ai, an envoy from the Ekumen (a perhaps-utopian union of worlds) to the planet Gethen, where the entire habitable zone of the planet has a climate at the extreme cold end of human tolerance - and where Gethenian natives lack biological sex and gender, but can unpredictably develop either male or female apparatus when "in kemmer," which is a monthly cyclic state of being ready and driven to mate (yes, there has to be a better way to say this, and Le Guin manages it).
LeGuin explores deep questions of gender, about what it means to be a male or female, by creating a society of androgynous individuals, who take on male/ female sexual characteristics only at the time of mating, which happens monthly.
Any individual can become a male or female depending on the situation.
In consequence, they look at "ordinary" human beings as perverts, being continuously "in heat" according to them.Add to this mind-blowing concept interplanetary diplomatic relations and intrigue, and you have a gripping novel which manages to be literary, exciting and genuine science fiction at the same time.
I generally visualize a book as a scale.
On the right side is the entertainment value.
But if the scale is fully tilted to the left (supposedly genius but unreadable or boring) or to the right (fast-paced, fluffy nothingness), it is not getting five stars.This books leans to the left for me.
This is a concept book, primarily about gender.
All of this is very satisfying.However, the book stumbles on the entertainment aspect.
There is a goal and solid action which drives the plot forward, but I picked watching a movie during Christmas break over reading this book several times.
The Left Hand of Darkness is the sort of book which realizes the great promise of science fiction. It explores the meaning of the human condition in new and untested ways, and it creates worlds far different than many of us have ever known. Yet it all seems so familiar and profoundly real.
I did not understand Genly's mistrust of Estraven (and I disagreed with him, actually, that the 'king' was 'crazy'), at times he seemed to lack cultural understanding and be misled by his ideas about gender, projecting them onto his understanding of 'shifgrethor', the Gethenian concept of prestige which, for instance, makes it insulting to give advice.
Fortunately, he becomes more humble and self-aware about this as the story progresses.The narrative is intercut with beautiful, fascinating, often violent Gethenian folktales on themes of love, death and time, which illuminate the two main spiritual disciplines Genly encounters, which both inform/reflect the people's concepts of time and knowledge.
"The old days or the new times, somer or kemmer, love is love."Ok, so I really have mixed feelings about this book.
I really liked the, for its time, daring message and play on gender and roles, and the journey that the characters go on, but I really could not get invested in the characters or the story.The setting and use of words that are obviously "other-worldly" made me feel alien to the story, which I guess is part of the books point.
