https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35545737-a-walk-to-remember
Not a proper review. Just me gushing over a book/movie that makes me cry everytime I watch/read it. Beautiful.  This is in random order. Don't try to make sense of it. You won't.
I like the book better than the movie.the struggle of jamie and langdon for their love over death...sounds cliche, but i think the book is the second best romance story next to Love Story by Erich Segal.try to read it at 2 am in the morning when all you hear is silent and you'll get into the story until you burst into tears...i smiled.i cried.nice.
I was pretty unsure about this book at first, and when I was told by a friend to read a Sparks book, absolutely any of my choosing, I didn’t really want to.
But, despite not wanting to read I book by him, because I was being stubborn and thought I would absolutely hate it, I went on my library’s website and looked up Nicholas Sparks.
I will absolutely be reading A Walk To Remember again.
So please, even if you’re skeptical to start reading Sparks like I was, go to your library and ask if they have A Walk To Remember.
Nobody touch me akdhsjaj.*throws chair and has to be restrained by bewildered co-workers*
I am surprised by how much I liked this one. This was my first Nicholas Sparks read and after years of it being recommended to me I finally gave in. I expected a by the numbers, cliche, love story. And it was in a way, but the characters were great and so the journey was great. And sad. You know where this is headed from the very beginning in a way, but it still surprises you at points.And no, I did not cry... I think... Maybe... Manly tears only...
i'll be honest i'm not huge fan of romantic books but this book was different in some way have a beautiful message and i get it
Then for the last 3 days, as I wanted to please my friend Patrick, I read without stopping and I really liked it.It's an easy read and the characters, though caricaturish, are sweet and lovable.
I mean, the world is full of treachery and duplicitous people but here are Sparks' characters that are their total opposites.
This book is totally an escapist work but I love it.
It's nice to escape to reality and this book is a nice way to do it.Reading Sparks is like eating at McDonald's.
Despite having all those choices for good books, I still pick, once-in-a-while, a Sparks.
it makes me realize how ugly yet beautiful love is.years later, i finally read the book.preferably, i enjoyed the movie more.the book didn't make me cry, the movie did.
i wish it was the opposite...but, it's not the case with this book.i'm still giving this 5 stars.i guess it's cause i've seen the movie, which is always a bad idea to do first.i guess it's because i knew what was gonna happen, even if the dialogue was completely different, even if everything was different, from the plot, characters, and the overall narration.this deserves all my love.the movie deserves all my love, and it has it all.i'll forever cherish it.nicholas sparks, thank you.
thank you for making me believe in love even when i doubt it.
They say opposites attract and for Jamie Sullivan and Landon Carter this was true.
Where as Landon was totally the opposite as he was one of the cool popular kids who would hang out with his friends after dark.
Hard to imagine, but Landon finds himself dateless for the homecoming dance and as much as he doesn't really want to ask Jamie to go with him as he knows everyone will talk about him, but he figured it was better than not having a date at all.
He held no feelings for Jamie what so ever, but that would all change after the dance and Landon would see Jamie in a totally different way.
I've been ugly crying for the last 20% of the book.Emotional wreck.
A Walk to Remember details the story of Jamie Sullivan, a preacher's daughter who seems to know everything, and Landon Carter, the boy who would never be tempted by Jamie in real life.
The plot is predictable enough, even if you haven't seen the movie.
I won't spoil the ending here, but it leaves quite a lot to be desired.I wanted to like this book, since so many people I knew enjoyed it, but I ended up hating it.
I could see how Nicholas Sparks fans could like it, but it didn't have enough heart or plot to keep me interested.
It was short, but it would definitely be etched in my cranium for forever.Who wouldn’t know Landon Carter and Jamie Sullivan?
He litters at the cemetery and he’s one of those who ridiculed Jamie.And A Walk To Remember is told by the eyes of Landon.
We see how he was a boy who walked the earth without actually savoring and changing into a man who knew how to count his blessings and relish them for as long as he could.Well, all I could say is: The love story was beautiful while it lasted.
I fall in love with this book more and more each time I read it :) This is my favorite book and I'm glad I made it a tradition to reread it every year :) Read for the first time: 2002? 2003?Read for the second time: 2009?Read for the third time: December 9, 2013Read for the fourth time: December 3, 2014Read for the fifth time: November 19, 2015Read for the sixth time: December 4, 2016Read for the seventh time: December 23, 2017
first book of 2016 is a reread! I haven't read this book in a really long time. I forgot how short it was, it took me about an hour and a half to get through.I still love it as much as I remember. Yes, its different than the movie, and I watched the movie first, many years ago...but the book is great, and its probably my favorite Sparks book to date.come find me: IG: @ash.reads
It has taken me 19 years to finally read 'A Walk to Remember' the book.. the movie version is one of my all time favourites. Although after reading the book I now realise that the movie was tweaked a bit, it nevertheless still retained the essence of the book ❤.
It has taken me 19 years to finally read 'A Walk to Remember' the book.. the movie version is one of my all time favourites. Although after reading the book I now realise that the movie was tweaked a bit, it nevertheless still retained the essence of the book ❤️.
As Landon's world becomes closer to Jamie's, he'll find a plan he never thought fated for him.I was sure then before I tried that I wouldn't like this book, though I was in the mood to read this kind of book.
But I'm very much glad, for I think that choosing to read first the book over watching the movie is one way or another, a smart decision.I honestly admire Sparks for writing down the solid description of Jamie Sullivan, yet unknowingly behind her image is a great mystery.
I am not a Nicholas Sparks fan. I like my love stories with a little more pizzazz, wit and humour. I want the heroines to be headstrong and dripping with pithy comebacks. I expect the heroes to be unassuming to begin with and memorable by the time I shut the book. And most of all, I want...no, I DEMAND a happy ending. So, keeping all these requirements in mind,  A Walk To Remember  is not my cup of tea.And yet, dare I use a dreadful pun? The books had it's occasional *sparks*. It helped that I r
And it helps that it was Shane West doing the shoulder-nuzzle.Spark #3: The last line wasn't in the book.
It was also, pretty much, the essence of Jamie Sullivan.Spark #5: This line sounds super-cheesy but considering the fact that Reverend Hegbert spent a good part of the book disapproving of Landon Carter and his heathen ways, it was pretty special for Landon to hear this at the end of the story.So yes, the book is not for those who want a fast-paced read.
given that i have watched the movie multiple times before, this book is not what I expected to read. the are so many differences between both the movie and the book. the book is special but I love the movie way more. The movie meant a lot to me than the book did.
3.5 stars (:So beautiful :') ..I have seen the movie many years ago, but I still enjoyed reading this very much❤..My favourite part here is the part where Landon starts to change..My only problem was that I felt their love but I couldnt feel their sorrow..Am I making sense?Eventhough I really liked this book, I have to say, I had expected a little more when I first started it :( ..
Read prior to GR. I just bought this last week for my daughter, so you never know. I may re-read. Loved the movie too, the lesser known Shane West was a fave from my very most fave show ER. Sweet, innocent and hopeful. What's not to love about that?
'It was, I remembered thinking, the most difficult walk anyone ever had to make.In every way, a walk to remember.'  If I was to shorten the story in one sentence, I'd say A Walk to Remember is the story of bad boy Landon falling in love with sweet and innocent Jamie.The writing was easy and the plot wasn't too complicated. Some things were also a tad bit cliché but I don't think that anything will ever be new in romance novels anymore. At first, Landon's character really pissed me off but he g
'It was, I remembered thinking, the most difficult walk anyone ever had to make.In every way, a walk to remember.'
If I was to shorten the story in one sentence, I'd say A Walk to Remember is the story of bad boy Landon falling in love with sweet and innocent Jamie.The writing was easy and the plot wasn't too complicated.
Some things were also a tad bit cliché but I don't think that anything will ever be new in romance novels anymore.
At first, Landon's character really pissed me off but he grew to be okay.
So, sometimes I fall in love with a sappy story.In some ways I prefer the movie to the book, which might be only because I had seen it before I read it.
I don't think it was because I already knew what was going to happen - it would have been pretty obvious where it was heading had I not ever seen the movie, and I have re-read books before and still been as touched as the first time.
ah! what a beautiful heart wrenching poignant love story. its very very simple yet very much complx at the same time. this is the only nicholas sparks novel that i love. none of his other novels can compare to this book. and the movie.... tear jerking for sure.
معصوميتي كه توي اين داستان احساس ميشه خيلي وقته از داستان هاي عاشقانه محو شده(حداقل تا جايي كه من ديدم) خوبه همچين كتابايي رو بخونيم و به خودمون ياداوري كنيم كه همه ادما -توي هر وضعيتي كه باشن- ميتونن فرصت عشق و عاشق بودن رو داشته باشن-و گريه كنيم،خيلي گريه كنيم-
Si les gustan las historias de amor ligeras, es una muy buena opción, por eso mi calificación de 4 estrellas. Sim embargo, después de terminarlo admito que no soy fan del escritor y todavía no tengo la razón muy clara, me encanta el romance, pero creo que es el tema de los clichés lo que hace que me desilusione un poco de la lectura.
At first I was kind of reluctant to read it since the story is set in 1958 and I thought it was going to be slow and well, boring.
It is very seldom to find their kind of love, which is pure and honest in today's teen/YA novels.
I have to admit a lot of tears were involved (both sad and happy) during this particular scene.
(hide spoiler)]A poignant novel that broke my heart and proved that miracles do come true...
Of course, eating comfort food later sure helps as well.Highly recommended for those seeking a beautiful story about young love.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Hated it. First and last Sparks book for me. Tried way to hard to go for the tear jerking moments.
This is like, the only book in my life that gave me that heartwarming I-want-to-be-a-better-person feeling.
When Landon asked Jamie to go to the school dance, little did he know it would only be the beginning of a long-time memory that would last with him forever.
Now, however, after reading this book, I start thinking of miracles and small differences to make the world a better place.
Like I said earlier, I think it's amazing how he never notice life's smallest details until he met Jamie.
And the scene when he married to Jamie was like the most beautiful, lovely, heartbreaking, powerful thing I've ever read in my life!!!!!!!!!!
It was my favourite aspect of the story compared to the movie because it was so touching, and so beautiful, and really added a new dimension to the high school feel of the book.
I love her loyalty, her kindness, her integrity, her generosity and the way she makes it sound so very easy to be good.
Just one of the most beautiful, simple, pure and wholesome love stories ever written, which truly deserves to go down in history alongside Romeo and Juliet, Pride and Prejudice, Wuthering Heights and the likes.
I decided to read this novel on a whim after watching the movie twice and being devastatingly impacted by Jamie's agony.Landon is a popular, rich guy who makes a habit of discreetly picking on Jamie, the priest's daughter who does not know how to match her clothes, does not wear any cosmetics and spends time helping wounded animals, hanging around with her lonely father, praying for her community and donating money to the orphanage.
They embark on the most beautiful, short journey which is about to end before it even started when Jamie announces her sickness to Landon.In contrast with the movie, the novel is narrated by Landon.
