https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/915554.Taltos
3.5 starsAnother prequel, as we learn both how Vlad came to the be ruthless assassin that he is and how he got involved in/survived one of his old war stories.
Giving Vlad magical talents was an inspired addition.Because there are two stories involved, there is a fair bit of shifting back and forth between the two.
Those are perhaps some of the reasons why Vlad’s stories appeal to me as much as they do.
I can see Vlad as the predecessor of characters like Harry Dresden (The Dresden Files) and Atticus O'Sullivan (The Iron Druid).Book 234 of my Science Fiction & Fantasy reading project.
(The earliest segment is actually the prologue to Jhereg, but we decided not to break down the books piecemeal.) It is the weirdest experience reading it out of order, so to speak, and I really can't recommend that new readers to the series do it this way.
Brust is a master at keeping track of which of his characters knows what, when, and with this book, number 4 in publication order, he's jumping back in time to when Vlad doesn't know Morrolan or Sethra Lavode, and Aliera barely exists.
Those first sections relate to the rest of the story in ways that enhance Vlad and Morrolan's experience going to, and within, the Paths of the Dead, but that's not always obvious.
It wasn't wrong, per se, but it seemed kinda useless.That's not to say I didn't entirely enjoy reading about his first assassinations or his first really big job, but frankly, I just wanted more of the main action which felt so much more important.Not to give such plot secrets away, but my biggest enjoyment in the novel was learning how Vlad met and gained the trust and friendship of the inhabitants of Castle Black.
Excellent audio.Taltos is the fourth novel in Steven Brust’s series about Vlad Taltos, a human crime boss in the fantasy world of Dragaera, where humans are short of stature and lifespan compared to the species that rule the world.
Taltos is actually a prequel to the previous novels (Jhereg, Yendi, Teckla) in which Vlad tells us about an incident that happened years ago while he was solidifying his reputation as a new crime lord.
Vlad followed.
This is how he met some of the main characters who we already know from the previous novels, including Morrolan, the powerful sorceror...
I absolutely love this series. Can't recommend enough. If you haven't read it, and are a fan of fantasy, do yourself a favor and start it!
My favorite Vlad Taltos book so far. It was made much more interesting to go back and visit the start of Vlad's career after getting to know him in his full power in the first three books.
Unfortunately it was a much weaker book for a few reasons.First, it's a prequel, which isn't always a bad thing, but it seems to exist only to explain how Vlad becomes friends with some of his cohorts from the first book, unless there were some other important revelations I missed by reading it out of order.Second, there are two different prequel stories being told, from different parts of Vlad's life, and these are split up by switching back and forth between timelines every few paragraphs.
Compared to the previous book, this one is awesome! It's the funniest so far, very witty and gives us a lot of insight on how the Vlad we know actually came to be. It's a solid 4 for me, would've been a 4.5, but the paragraphs at the beginning of every chapter were kinda annoying for me.
Dans ce quatrième tome, Brust s'amuse à nouveau à remonter dans la vie de Vald tatlos, pour nous faire découvrir comment il est devenu l'ami de puissants (Morrolan, Sethra Lavode et Aliera), et ce avec un style incroyable qui me rappelle certaines des folies de Iain M Banks.Oh, bien sûr, l'histoire peut parraître un peu simple : Vald Tatlos, qui débute dans le métier de parrain de la mafia, doit assassiner l'un de ses sbires qui est parti avec la caisse.
The book follows three timelines that intertwine until they merge by the end of the book.
The second and third timelines switch between Vlad’s initial steps in becoming an assassin and a minor power within the Jhereg and his trip with Morollan to the lands of the dead to retrieve Aliere.
Ordinarily, the above statement would be considered spoilers but since this all has been alluded to in the previous books, most readers will already be aware of the outcomes of these events and will be reading this book to see how it all happens.
If you are reading in publication order, like me, this follows Jhereg, Yendi, and Teckla.
The plot was a little thin, but that may partly have been because we already know from the previous novels that Vlad walks the Paths Of The Dead and comes out alive.
The rest of the (pre-Paths) plot line sort of felt a bit contrived, as if Brust really just needed an excuse to get Vlad and Morrolan to the Paths Of The Dead so he could tell the story he wanted to tell.Also, I felt like the action sequences weren't quite up to the high standard Brust had set with his three previous books.
And here I know you can see the cool cover that is terribly inaccurate.
I would like the cover, if it weren't so terribly, terribly inaccurate.Anyway.
I realize, now, that a good portion of my feelings for it stem from knowing the rest of the series.
A lot of that comes from reading the first three and knowing where Vlad's coming from.Which is funny, when you consider that, chronologically, this is "first."There's too much to say, here.Basically, though, I hear so many say how these books aren't "well written." I suppose that's true---but if they were the most well written books on the block, they'd suck.
3.5 stars. I'm reading these in publication order, and this is my favorite of the series so far. It's a prequel to the first book and I enjoyed being introduced to familiar characters. We meet Vlad's unobtrusive partner Kragar for the first time, and learn how Vlad's unlikely friendships with Morrolan, Sethra and Aliera were forged. I didn't miss Vlad's wife Cawti one bit.Brust's writing is amusing - I laughed out loud at least once while reading this. The plot is fun, and I liked way the book was structured with alternating timelines. These are such short books, though!
This was a fun read, Vlad is quickly becoming one of my favourite characters.
Good read. Wasn't fond of the jumping around
This was an excellent flashback.When we first saw Vlad, Morrolan, Sethra, and Aliera together in Jhereg, they were friendly, despite the fact that Vlad was both an Easterner and a member of the House of Jhereg, and the other three were Dragaerans of the House of Dragon.
But back to a general overview of the book -- there's a reason why this book takes its name from its protagonist rather than one of the Great Houses of the Dragaeran Empire -- not only does it offer more detail about Vlad's childhood, but it also offers more detail about Vlad's transition from working in his dad's restaurant, to becoming an enforcer, to becoming an assassin.

Well, it took me four books to realize "Dragarean" just meant "elf." That was an interesting realization that explains so much.
It's easy, solid fantasy with characters I like and not too much going on.
It's straightforward, interesting, but nothing amazing.
I like that.
I did feel that this book was a little more uneven than previous ones--I don't think the flashbacks-within-flashbacks style worked very well.
It just jumped back and forth a little too often to be able to hold a coherent narrative.
But it was fun, which is all I expect of these books.
Päris vahva lugemine endiselt. Natuke jäi mõistmatuks, miks oli vaja kaht paralleelset lugu (kolmanda kohaololu oli mõistetav ning olen rõõmus, et aimasin selle mõtet enne kui tekst asja paljastas), aga tühja sellega. Ei hõiska elevusest, aga väike õhtutäide on siiski tore.Iseenesest on mingil veidral kombel vaimustav, et maailmas, milles on valitsev liik mingid haldjalaadsed semud, on peategelane inimene noorpõlves lihtsalt väike vastik rajakas, kes käib kaigastega haldjanolke peksmas... Ja siis hakkab haldjamaffia turvameheks.
Highly enjoyable entry in the Vlad Taltos series.Taltos is another prequel, similar to Yendi (Book 2), but this one is actually set earlier than we've ever seen (so far).There are two stories being told simultaneously - First, the story of how Vlad first met Sethra and Morrolan, and was tasked with venturing into the Paths of the Dead to free Aliera.
And Second, Vlad's life story of growing up in the streets, working with his grandfather, becoming a Jhereg, and eventually an assassin.Both stories were excellent, and helped to flesh out the amazing world that Brust is building.
I loved every minute, and I'm really excited to get back to the present day with Book 5, Phoenix.
3.1.2018 - 4,5*Originalita. Sarkasmus. A skvělý styl poskládání příběhu, retrospektivní pohledy vložené do současného přiběhu, všechny ty drobné detaily. Parádní jízda. ^^Uvažuju, jestli by bylo lepší začít touto knihou. Koneckonců je chronologicky první. Ale mám takový dojem, že příběh roste spolecně s ubíhajícím časem a nejspíše bych si tuto knihu tak neužila, kdybych jí začala. Jhereg je, nakonec, skvělý startovní bod. :)
I didn't really like this one as much as the others, it's not that the story wasn't good, it's that this one was so jumpy. The time like was going between two main times, then a third at the beginning of each chapter. What really annoyed me was that at the end you saw the one time line was basically ending not to far it seemed from the other beginning. I think a more linear approach would have been better.
This book gives some more backstory on Vlad's relationship with Sethra, Aliera, and Morrolan. Unfortunately, I found Vlad's refusal to abandon Morrolan unconvincing, especially since they would have just met. And the solution is literally a dius ex machina that Vlad had no reason to think would work, and, for that matter that Kiera had no reason to entrust Vlad to keep (especially as she didn't seem to care that he had to lose it.) Disappointing.
My favorite Taltos novel so far. I really enjoyed this prequel, traveling back to the early days of Vlad Taltos. I enjoyed the parallel stories, jumping between Vlad's first assassination in his youth, his witchcraft, and his introduction to Sethra Lavode, Morollan, and Aliera. This felt like a more mature novel than the previous works in this series.
Enjoyed the audio version of this book, which I had read before as a paper book. Don't know if I'd have liked it as much without being previously familiar with it - I might have found the frequent shifts in story line really confusing. As it is, I think my appreciation of Brust's writing actually increased.
I like the way Vlad Taltos tells his stories as if the reader and he are old friends. That sense of familiarity lends to the likability I have for this character.The use of past events intermingled with the current events was a tad confusing at times. That being my only complaint, the book was a quick read for a lazy day.
This was hard to listen to. The narrator is talking about three different periods of time and there is no way to distinguish them. From one paragraph to the next the setting can change with no indicator.
probably the best example of an author telling a story in the characters present and one set into the characters past while jumping back and forth between the narratives. For all the action, something about the pacing or the authors style makes the Vlad books relaxing while keeping me hooked.
Another good procedural Vlad Taltos story. Tongue firmly in cheek, the tale of Vlad's trip to the Land of the Dead and part of how he came up in the Jhereg.
Actual rating: 3.5 stars
