https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28660.The_Curse_of_the_Mistwraith
Janny Wurts has, in TCOTM written a book I’m not a great fan of extremely well.Actually, I liked the first 50 pages a fair bit, soldiered on through the next 600 or so, and enjoyed the last 200.There are two main elements I’m going to discuss.
Threat and tension largely take a hike, and we spend 500 pages on traveling about a wet and misty countryside slowly world building while our two main characters and a small collection of wizards agonize over what choices to make.The book focuses on two princes imported from a different fantasy world to end the curse of the mistwraith.
The Master of Shadows, or Arithon and his brother, The Master of Light, or Lysaer, are only a continuation of a seven generations feud between royal families exiled from another world, Athera, to Dascen Elur.
Just as most, we are all conditioned to think of Shadows and Light as arcanely negative or positive, but this first book in the series is going to challenge our perceptions and make us pay attention to everything, since nothing is exactly what it seems.
The writing perfectly fits the story, giving it an epic feeling, making it feel like history in the making.Sometimes it's just a phrase framed with a negative instead of a positive and while I loved this book, I had a really hard time being forced to reread so often.
As in example, within the first twenty-seven pages of the book, we are treated to a "Prologue," written in historical fashion; a sea rescue written from the viewpoint of a non-significant first officer; sword practice and embedded memory from the view of a prince; a chapter with an unnamed high mage and farseer; and "Fragments," which are, quite literally, three separate and incomplete sentences that reference other scenes, some of which are inconsequential but attempt to be portentous.
We aren't told why this is so, and Lysaer's own self-taught knowledge seems to belie the thought that it is strictly a matter of time; already he's been taught duties of prince while learning magic.
4.5 Stars.I loved this first book in the Wars of Light and Shadow series.
I will definitely re-read the entire series once I'm done with it, and I can imagine that it'll turn into a five star read.
It feels like every word is hand picked, and I must admit I fell in love with Arithon, Master of Shadow, who just wants to play his music and instead gets pulled into an epic conflict.I recommend this to everyone who enjoys high fantasy, is looking for an epic series, maybe even for a bit of a challenge, and who doesn't mind reading slowly, absorbing the prose and putting in some work.
The first book in a sweeping epic, it sets up a complex set of worlds & yet also has a ton of action.
Every word is hand picked & polished to wring out the full meaning.While the book is a setup to a series, it doesn't end on a cliff hanger, something I appreciate.
(The complete series this time - they're all coming now!!!)This is a book I'll keep & re-read, something I don't do lightly any more.
There are too many good books out there to re-read any but the best.
"The Curse of the Mistwraith" took me completely by surprise.
Based on (obviously mistaken) assumptions, I expected something completely different - epic fantasy, yes, but nothing even close to the gorgeous prose and astounding depth I found in this novel.
Two half-brothers, Arithon and Lysaer, are on opposite sides of a conflict that spans generations.
As they become involved in the struggle against the Mistwraith that keeps the world of Athera in a stranglehold, the reader quickly realizes that the half-brothers' conflict doesn't just go back generations, but literally ages.
It takes concentration, patience, and quite a bit of faith to become completely absorbed and brought along to the book's climax (actually the second one).
And at that point, it scores a winning run...This is certainly one that will inspire two things: first, that I get ahold of the rest of the series and dive into them, and second, that in time I go back and re-read this.
I can see that there is much to be picked up with subsequent readings, especially after continuing on in the series.
The language is beautiful, the story at time humorous and others quite tragic, the pace is very quick and intense.
I'm constantly hungry for more.March 2015: I'm currently reading Stormed Fortress, this series is simply awesome, a fantasy jewel of unique complexity and emotion of story and prose.
It was a reading experience and I am looking forward to continuing with the rest of this powerful series.The main characters, half-brothers Lysaer and Arithon, are a living embodiment of Light and Dark in all its permutations: each always in contrast but both absolutely necessary to the other.
There are consequences to the disagreeable actions that often seem necessary and justified when serving the “greater good.” My favorite aspects of Wurt’s work are the wonderful depth demonstrated in the characters, the richly imagined setting, and the beautiful and effective literary style.
I am so glad there are more books because I'm not ready to let go of Arithon.It took some time for me to get oriented in the complex world that Janny has created.
In a sense, it's the old war of good and evil, or of consciousness and unconsciousness; but the complexity and ambiguity of good/bad, light/dark are not so easy to discern.The one character that I fell in love with is Arithon in all his intensity, his deep understanding of the consequences of action/non-action, love/hate, good/bad are so painful at times that it brought tears to my eyes.
I'm a huge fan of Janny's work and have read and reread Curse multiple times because Janny doesn't hand-hold her readers like most modern authors do these days.
I would bet that if I picked up Curse of the Mistwraith and reread it I would find even more depths and layers that I missed the first three times I read it.
No other author challenges me as Janny does and I adore her for it.
But in this age of soundbites, social media and nanosecond attention spans, I can see where the masses would get lost and confused in the mists and completely miss the crucial linchpin of the series buried in plain site in Curse of the Mistwraith, as you obviously did.
I have no idea if the efforts being made are likely to work or not, and so the descriptions fall pretty flat as far as building dramatic tension goes.
I see no basis for the conclusions characters are drawing about the magical nature of the threats they are facing, so I'm not really drawn into wondering or considering for myself whether they are correct or not.
As it is, this anonymous person is just mentioned every now and then in an attempt to create some kind of sympathy for her alleged lover, but again, it falls flat, because there's nothing there to make us actually care about this person and no reason to feel that her lover actually cares about her, other than the fact that we are repeatedly told that he misses her.
It's not often I quit a book, especially after having waded through 400+ pages (and it so highly recommended by readers I trust), but I'm going to be the odd man out on this one.The farther I got, the less I liked it.
But there's no excuse today.
The book would have been better for being two-thirds as long.
(That's not a compliment.) No wonder so many are writing opaque fantasy tomes today, if this gets high praise.Quibble: The map was so small scaled that it's impossible to read.
Perhaps Janny should stick to art.Not recommended for anyone with any other books on their to-read pile.
Epic high fantasy at its highest and I absolutely adored it!!!What is it about?It is the story of  2 half-brothers, divided by the vicious throes of a blood feud – Lysaer, a prince raised as heir to a crown, and Arithon, brought up by mages. One bears the gift of the power of light and the other, command of darkness. Exiled to a world not their own, the pair must find common ground to defeat the Mistwraith that has banished the sun.Yet there is more at stake than one battle with the Mistwraith –
(from the back cover)There are so many things I loved about this, starting with the prose.I’ve seen many people complain about it being dense, but it is high fantasy and it is a huge series after all!
At that time Arithon, called Master of Shadow, battled the Lord of Light through five centuries of bloody and bitter conflict.
And when that time comes, because of the brilliant way she writes her story, you will be left numbed and shocked to the core!
And Ms. Wurts does it well.The book grabbed my interest right away and I got into the story (in spite of the elements that I found a bit annoying).
I got very tired of the dichotomy between the two brothers and then the "cause" of the final conflict("so to speak" as things really can't be said to be finalized) truly annoyed me.
As I said, this is a good book, but I am not a huge fan of the "hate theme" that continues to lay at the heart of the story.
I've read this one at least 3 times, I enjoyed it that much.
Of power struggles, murder, love, grand battles and characters that are to die for.
The last battle scene in this one had me in tears this time.
It's not easy, light weight reading.
Even though I knew what was coming, it was vivid and dreadful.If you decide to read it, I hope you enjoy it as much as I did, in spite of (or maybe because of) the intensity of it and the tragedy of it; because in the end everyone is richer for it.
I really want to like this book.
I'm not engaging at all with any of the characters and little things like the action sequences are also wanting.
If Wurts threw me a few crumbs of something like exceptional action sequences or vivid imagery I might be encouraged to go on.I'm going to make a comparison to my experience reading Erikson's Garden's of the Moon.
- I found it difficult going first time I read it as well.
But it also had some fantastic snapshot moments of vivid imagery and second to none badass action sequences.
If I had read just the last 50 pages of this novel I would have been quite impressed.
I didn't believe the characters.
And the biggest failing -- though many published (best-selling even!) writers fail at this one, so maybe it doesn't bother others as much as it does me -- all of the conflict in the novel rested on characters refusing to tell each other anything.
If the mages and the two leads had simply sat down together on page 100 and pooled their information, all the conflict would have been brought to a head where it could be dealt with summarily.
It is very hard to do justice to a book I find so amazing.
There isn't anything I don't like.The rhythmn of Ms Wurt's writing captures me from page one; a lyricism to the prose I find compelling.
I never have to question who or what or where, because, simply, I am there with the characters.The story itself is the beginning of a fairly long series following two brothers who have been cursed by a mistwraith.
It is very easy to see in the devastation of Athera's clans.Arithon and Lysaer's battles are heartbreaking.
Every book is a delight.
*SIGH* This book is one of those that grips you tightly and takes you you on a journey...
*speechless* It's not an easy read...it takes concentration to gleam understanding and the characters (and you) are more than put through the wringer.
(And yes, there are still certain characters that I want to rip apart with my bare hands.) But...this book is so worth it.
It has been over a decade since I first read it and yet it's lost none of its power.And on Thursday I start the second book in this arc...The Ships of Merior.
I have had this book for many years, since it's original American release. The story that begins in this volume has incredible depth. There is magic, there is music, there is love and friendship and companionship; finally, there is deep-seated, curse-induced hatred and war(well, closer to a genocidal campaign). This book, indeed, the series as a whole, is not an "easy" read. It is complex and challenging and worth every second that is spent reading.
Astonishing and remarkable, this series is exceptional… The curse of the mistwraith volume one of the wars of light and shadow opened my eyes to the greatest fantasy series of all time that is a testimony to what a dedicated, visionary writer can achieve.
I did not want this tale to end hence I went to then read book two of the series and continue on the journey, delving back into Janny’s world feeling as if I was back home with something so familiar and memorable.
I was really impressed with Janny Wurtz collaborations (Empire trilogy) with Raymond E Feist, which led me to this book.I gave it a good shot; you know, it's great writing, and I'm sure there is a great story in there somewhere, it just wasn't visible to me.There was a couple of things that stood out as barriers for me, the first was over-description of everything, it's just not necessary and slows down the action - which leads to the second barrier - lack of action.Not engaged enough and DNF'ed it (hence unrated).
The best answer I can give is that the narrative style is too scattered and random and too much is spent on background and history without forging any connection to the present and the main characters.
The flow of the main story, if it can be called that, is completely derailed by these diversions to other people, times, places that supposedly lend import to what is about to happen hopefully sometime in the next 600 pages.
Then after each prologue, we get random flashes of scenes from other people, times, places that we have no idea who or where they are or whether / why they might be important to the whole.
And considering it was first published in 1993, that wouldn't have been a particularly rare flaw in a book of its time--fantasy as a genre was just coming into its own--Robert Jordan had just started publishing his series, and  A Game of Thrones was still a few years down the road, with the Malazan Book of the Fallen not out until the late '90s.
Seeing all the things that this novel sets up, there's a richness that I didn't recognize on my first reading of the series.
Within this ancient world, they do battle against the Mistwraith, which curses them to hate each other to the point where they seek to destroy each other, regardless of their own safety or that of those around them.
The Curse of the Mistwraith sets a great stage for The Wars of Light and Shadow.My thoughts:The most appealing aspect of this story for me is that there isn’t an all-powerful Dark Lord, no evil sorcerers and no clearly defined good and evil.
Her complexity of good/bad, light/dark is not so easy to discern, keeping you never quite knowing who you are meant to support.
This book was like a solid dose of nostalgia for me.
In fact there is quite a bit of stuff that can act as a critical commentary of TolkienIf this book has one fault, it is that its a bit too slow.
I felt like 70% of this book was setup for the future series.
I often got the feeling that the primary importance of the things I was reading was to create a juxtaposition to showcase future changes and developments.
Overall the feeling I got from this book was awe as I gradually understood the scope of the series and the world.
I am eager to get into the later books
I would like to get more into the world she built, but the act of actually having to read this thing really detracts from it.
This whole bit with Arithon's coronation is pretty interesting, because finally, we have some distinct characters (not just different shades of the same wizard) running around doing things.
I am annoyed that Arithon keeps whining about having to be king like a martyr.
I like the idea of the distinct kingdoms with distinct governing characteristics, but it's just not worth it to read this book to get the story.*****I give up.
