https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40923.Theodore_Rex
When Teddy sees some black people, Morris describes the state of America’s race relations.
Morris knows how to tell his story clearly, but he is also able to slip into an evocative prose that brings you into events: Indistinguishable as the whistle-stops soon became, even to him, each was supreme drama to a little audience that had been looking forward to it for weeks.
Still, it’s not the best way to tell a story, because it requires you to remember all the details of all these flare-ups as Morris leaves them for hundreds of pages before circling back.Robert Caro’s greatest trait is to expand the world of his biography.
Theodore Rex is a meticulously researched and beautifully written biography of Theodore Roosevelt and the second book of the trilogy by Pulitzer prize-winning author, Edmund Morris, of one of our more beloved presidents.
The many facts that are contained within these pages are riveting as the President, the youngest man to hold office, brings his progressive values to the White House, promising fairness for all Americans, the breaking of long-held trusts and conglomerates, regulation of railroads and the conservation of America's natural resources being of primary importance as he established national parks, monuments and forests, whether by executive order or through the coaxing and persuasion of Congress.
The book is an excellent account of the presidency of Theodore Roosevelt.
In 1902 Anthracite coal miners of North eastern Pennsylvania decided to go on strike due to poor pay and working conditions.
It was viewed, however, by the public as a significant win for the working class and helped increase the new president’s popularity.Also, in 1902 an attempt was made to control the country’s railroad system.
Amidst a great public outcry Roosevelt sued the large company under the Sherman Anti Trust Act. In 1904, in a close decision, the Supreme Court ruled against Northern Securities and in support of President Roosevelt.
He left office as one of the most popular presidents to ever serve.
Theodore Roosevelt – what a guy!!! A whirlwind . A remarkable individual  way, way, way  ahead of his time. I recommend reading this book to those of you interested in all the details of his presidency AND to those of you who like reading about exceptional human beings. I cannot think of any other person at all similar. You must of course start with the first book of the trilogy: The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt. This is the second, and I am off to read the third: Colonel Roosevelt. I know they ar
You must of course start with the first book of the trilogy: The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt.
By reading the book you will understand the magnitude of each accomplishment.
I know that the narration by Nathan Marosz really made it difficult at times to pay attention to the words being read.
I kind of think it was the narration that made it so impossible for me to really enjoy this book as I should have, but at times I did feel just a little bit bored.
If you cannot get the second volume narrated by Mark Deakins, read the paper book instead!
This, the middle book of a three book trilogy, is focused solely on Theodore Roosevelt's presidency. The book is exellent. Richly detailed in all that happened during his presidency. The book captures more than a presidency but also the man himself, his energy, his faults and his strengths. Paired with the first book, this makes a wonderful duology. However, if you are just looking to read about his presidency, this is book can just be read on its own.
Three and a half stars. One has to have almost as much energy as Teddy himself to get through this massive history of Roosevelt's presidency. I did not enjoy it anywhere near as much as Morris's earlier book, The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt. Theodore Rex was too often a rather dry chronology with little context or analysis of Roosevelt's place in history. Still....Bully for Teddy! He was a giant.
The second installment of Edmund Morris's biographical trilogy of Theodore Roosevelt.
Densely written, well researched and with excellent research notes Theodore Rex is a serious piece of political biography.
This is a book meant to be read a few chapters at a time.
Of the three books "Theodore Rex" covers the shortest span of time - a mere eight years.
It's the Roosevelt Golden Age. If you're interested in Theodore Roosevelt and the Ragtime era I recommend this book.
Actually the entire trilogy which I'm reading backwards from the end to the beginning.
However, I believe it was these successes during his presidency that led to his overconfidence (hubris?) that ultimately tarnished his legacy later in life, but that'll be covered in the next book.His biggest domestic policy contribution was is environmental conservation.
It is so funny that he was the first President to ever promote conservation and that if he did that in the modern day Republican party he would be crucified as a commie-liberal-pinko.
Clearly he had a big impact with this, I mean, his face is carved into a mountain for crying out loud.The Teddy Roosevelt in this book is the one we remember but he had many miles to go before he slept.
I am sorry, Obama, Clinton, and Bush, this guy makes you look like the janitor of America.
I think he may be the only president who could help us open the greatest canal in the world's history, help thwart a recession (very similar to ours today) by telling the rich people, "Hey you like making money?
I only gave this four stars because the book does not cover his post presidency: His huge trip to Africa which is the only reason for most of our artifacts in our museums and his hatred for his successor Taft.
Therefore, Taft is the only current incumbent of the presidency to come in third in a presidential election.

A brilliant biography.
IT is hard to separate my love of Morris' second Roosevelt biography from my love of TR.
The book captures the dynamo-President's force, eccentricities, and political skill while also accurately capturing the politics of the time and the rise of America's global power.
Occasionally, a person enters the global stage with such energy, power, competence and audacity that it seems the earth moves for them and water separates.
I can only think of a couple other leaders that capture the Nietzsche' Übermensch ideal (Napoleon, Fredrick the Great, Alexander, Caesar, etc) as well.
Even when Teddy wasn't super, he was still super lucky.
Leading the narrative through these themes--American race relations, forging the American superpower persona, and carving out strong national sustaining policies--Morris depicts Roosevelt as both a man eager to make a name for his country and to push it into the 20th century, prepared to face any challenge.The second volume, reviewed here, encompasses the presidential life of Theodore Roosevelt from 1901 through to 1909.
I could not help but think of Robert Caro's third (?) volume of his LBJ biography, when the Senate Majority Leader sought to forge ahead with racial integration laws, fighting a powerful Democratic south in the Senate, where LBJ would not let up and kept pushing for race relations into his time as president.
His 1908 Special Message to Congress directly attacks corporate greed, “The vast individual and corporate fortunes, the vast combinations of capital which have marked the development of our industrial system, create new conditions, and necessitate a change from the old attitude of the State and the Nation toward the rules regulating the acquisition and untrammeled business use of property.” Even famous muckraking author Upton Sinclair and Democratic Progressive leader William Jennings Bryan approve.
Most of the better-known American presidents gained acclaim for their leadership during war (heck, Washington is far more famous for his exploits as a general) so it's nice to see one that isn't, even if his rough-rider days form a sizable part of his image.By contrast, Roosevelt's peacetime accomplishments are numerous; the Panama Canal, workers rights, trust-busting, environmental protections and a brokered peace between Japan and Russia.
'Nobody likes him now but the people,' one ambassador quipped near the end of Roosevelt's reign.To put things in perspective, one of the most frustrating moments for Roosevelt came when his administration won a trust-busting Supreme Court case.
My second favorite President. Reading this, you may be struck at how he would be skewered by the Left today. Like Reagan, he seemed to have a natural understanding of his age and the important issues that needed to be addressed. He did it with strength, courage, resolve, and charisma. This book does a great job of following him from the earliest hours of assuming office and then staring down some of his most important battles.
http://bestpresidentialbios.com/2015/...“Theodore Rex” is the second volume in Edmund Morris’s highly acclaimed three-volume biography of Theodore Roosevelt.
Morris spent much of that time working on his now-infamous memoir of Ronald Reagan.“Theodore Rex” conveniently picks up where “The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt” left off – with Vice President Roosevelt receiving word of President McKinley’s imminent death and his inheritance of the presidency.The first forty pages cover his breathless dash from a remote cabin in the Adirondack Mountains to take the oath of office in Buffalo.
The dichotomy between the two accounts must be that Morris focuses primarily on domestic affairs (although America's involvement in the Sino - Japanese War negotiations, the Kaiser's obsession with Moroccan affairs and Latin and South American politics - specific as they related to the Panama Canal Treaty) while Bradley stayed intent on the Pacific Theater and U.S. relations with Japan in the early 20th century.
It's actually a calming realization - to accept that the vitriol and bile that emanates from inside the Beltway today existing long before the construction of the massive thoroughfare.
The first volume The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt won the Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography in 1980, setting high expectations for the rest of the series.
This is a fantastic biography, in which Mr. Morris does an excellent job of bringing Theodore Roosevelt's presidency to life.This prologue of the book starts with the death of President McKinley on September 14th, 1901, and the epilogue is March 4th, 1909, the day he hands the Presidency over to Taft.
From that perspective, I can say that this book does not require the reading of the first volume, but that I expect that doing so would enhance the experience.
Morris has done his research, making good use of primary sources (diaries, letters, papers, memoirs) to recreate day-by-day and even hour-by-hour scenes of Roosevelt making decisions, negotiating with legislators, ambassadors, and heads of state, talking (he was a non-stop talker) with friends and acquaintances, and traveling, playing, reading, and writing.
(He surely ranks as one of the top 5 best-read Presidents we've had, and probably the most prolific writer.) I didn't find a dull page in the book.
As the book ends, Roosevelt seems to be moving in a more progressive direction; it would have been interesting to see what he would have done with a second elected term, which he could have had for the asking.
not as good as the first book in the trilogy (The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt), but then it's hard to imagine how that would be possible.
still, well worth reading by any measure, though more on the level of Caro's LBJ books (though at least here you're assured conclusion of the work, whereas we're all wondering whether Caro will last through the fifth volume of The Years of Lyndon Johnson).i'd summarize by saying that The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt is required reading for all people, whereas Theodore Rex is optional, though i doubt anyone who reads the first volume will skip this one.
All biographers should be this passionate about their subjects. Morris paints a detailed portrait of a tumultuous presidency with compassion and verve. At times, however, the book falls into melodrama (not that TR wasn't a character worthy of it) and amounts to a biographical blow job. While I admire the depth of research that is so evident, some glossing over faults and aggrandizing go down in Theodore Rex that made me scowl. I mean, the title sort of says it all. Well-written, but over the top.
Mighty! The book, the subject, the author, the research, the story, the effects of this administration, the depth of the errors when errors were made, the president-congress battles, the sheer amount of interesting things one learns while reading this book -- all are mighty.
Yet, he ran his presidency with a belief in relieving the working class of the burdens of unbridled labor abuses, breaking up business trusts which controlled America's economy, and preserving nature's most beautiful places from exploitation.There was an awful lot going on, both domestically and internationally, at this time.
It became the first of 45 antitrust suits against trusts by this president, who wasn't afraid of the political costs involved.During this time, the United States recognized the Republic of Panama's secession from Columbia, and Roosevelt led the effort to sign a treaty to build the canal.
This book is the story of the Roosevelt presidency.
Morris does a terrific job of weaving story lines so one feels as though the book is reporting current news.
Morris does a really nice job of providing background and mixing in details that make the story personal and human.
In a recounting of an administrations legislative, diplomatic and judicial battles, one might fall into simply covering cold hard facts.
It would be difficult to do a nice job on a single volume biography without leaving so much out that the book would be compromised.
Excellent continuation of the first book (The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt) and covers the presidential years. Personally I liked the first book somewhat better but this was still interesting and just as well done and detailed as the first. The first book made me wish I had just 1/10th the energy and stamina of the man and the second book made me realize that politics and government hasn't changed a whole lot through the years. Now on to the third book!
An excellent study, looking forward to the other two in the trilogy.
This novel read like a report of the day to day activities and special events of Theodore Roosevelt day-to-day operations and political railings during his presidency.It highlighted taking power after the death of the sitting president's assassination, through his re-election, the politics of the Panama Canal, the policy of the railroad and some of the federal investigations of anti-trust.It covered his horrible decision of dismissal of Black Troops in the Brownsville fiasco to him establishing the conservation movement with establishing National Parks to preserve the legacy of America's beauty for all to see for generations to come.
Sadly, it is not required a reading of the current president as he and many politicians would learn from history how to perform better at their duties.
All in all an excellent historical novel, providing details about a popular president.
(Had he been president during the time of Polk, we likely would have seen Mexico and Canada as part of the American homeland—or at least suffered the war to accomplish such.) Teddy's accomplishments with the Panama Canal and his efforts to preserve natural parks are commendable, but by 2017 standards, they are little more than larger scale lobbying efforts.
Lincoln invented an economic system that supported the ability for individuals to support their interests within their lifetimes; Teddy only weakly supported labor (much less individuals) when he absolutely had to, and did it in such a weak way that it didn't benefit said labor past his presidency.
Throughout this period, Roosevelt also outmaneuvered any possible rival for the Republican nomination in 1904 then got elected in dominating fashion.After the election of 1904, the book's second section begins and there seems to be a shift that becomes noticeable as one reads.
As Morris explains in the book, because of the way Congress met basically all of 1905 was void of the anything meaningful happening on the domestic front while Roosevelt was active in foreign affairs.
If you are interested in Theodore Roosevelt, early Twentieth Century politics, or American history in general I wholeheartedly recommend this book.
Although it took me nearly a year to finish this book, it is no fault of the author: from the moment of TR's assumption of the Presidency following McKinley's assasination (the account of which really drew me in) until the end of the second term, Edmund Morris not only gives a detailed account of Roosevelt's presidency (oh, now I see why he joins Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln on Mt. Rushmore), but of his personal life and the times in which he lived.
