https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274392.Black_Skin_White_Masks
Black Skins White Masks is a scary book. In it Fanon discusses the black man’s experience in a white world; he ironically, and justly, creates an image of the world through a black lens, so to speak.   “The N**** enslaved by his inferiority, the white man enslaved by his superiority alike behaves in accordance with a neurotic orientation.”  The crux of the work resides on the black man’s experience and how he is perceived, and how he is forced to perceive himself. Fanon argues that language is t
Fanon argues that “to speak is to exist absolutely for the other.’’ Fanon points out that for the black man to be considered equal in the white man’s culture, he must become whiter.
And here’s the rub: such a relationship creates a profound inferiority complex for the original culture of the black man; it is, in essence, repressed and destroyed.
He recognised that the black man, although embracing white culture, is still treated as inferior; therefore, there is little point in doing so because a patronising relationship will only be achieved.
Appiah concedes this point in his introduction to the Grove edition.These criticisms aside, however, what I think remains most valuable in Black Skin, White Masks is the fact that at heart it's a small, personal book -- a meditation on the author's own experiences as a black male intellectual -- that can't quite live up to the reputation it has earned as the record of an entire generation.
Despite the "vintage" gender politics and analytic practices, Fanon's book conveys a palpable sense of subjective hurt, and also a surprisingly conciliatory desire to forge new, mutually beneficial relationships with white people.
I appreciate this book and the way it turned the mirror back on me and made me question certain practices I have in the context of my "Blackness" and how I've been conditioned to assimilate to certain European cultural practices that I can never truly be a part of by de facto.
This book is a must read for those who study topics of race relations, cultural studies, and Black/African/Afro-Caribbean history.My only negative comment is that I wish Fanon would have devoted real time to looking at the woman of color and her personal struggles with Whites, but alas, he is a man of color so he may not have been able to truly do it any better justice than he did in this book.
3.5/5 What is there to say? Purely and simply this: When a bachelor of philosophy from the Antilles refuses to apply for certification as a teacher on the ground of his color, I say that philosophy has never saved anyone. When someone else strives and strains to prove to me that black men are as intelligent as white men, I say that intelligence has never saved anyone; and that is true, for, if philosophy and intelligence are invoked to proclaim the equality of men, they have also been employed t
When someone else strives and strains to prove to me that black men are as intelligent as white men, I say that intelligence has never saved anyone; and that is true, for, if philosophy and intelligence are invoked to proclaim the equality of men, they have also been employed to justify the extermination of men.
I'm giving this one more of a benefit of a doubt because it was never written with me, a white woman, in mind, as well as the simple fact that Fanon is worth reading period.
However, his stating that he is not using the story of one to generalize for all doesn't help when every black woman is stripped of agency and every homosexual is defined as a mental illness.
This doesn't make it tedious as you might imagine; it takes you on a journey through intellectual thought around the post-colonial race-relations situation, and reveals quite some interesting literature that you might not have known before.A word of warning,though, and he mentions this specifically himself: his analysis is limited to the people of the Antilles, the Martinicans, the French-colonised Caribbeans.
Still, some of the more general points he makes seem still relevant, the writing is brilliant, and, I would say, it's a must-read for anybody interested in the history of race-relations and whoever wants a partial insight (with outdated aspects) of what it means to be coloured in a world where white is privileged.
fanon takes psychoanalysis, phenomenology, and his incredible mind and goes amazing places; evades being bogged down by psychoanalytic dogma, while using its concepts to tease out a living constellation of power relations and problems of race and representation.
so apt and agile and fascinating that it gets my 5 stars despite its raging sexism, ablism, homophobia.
The first lines are just stunning.
"The explosion will not happen today.
It is too soon...
or too late.
I did not come with timeless truths.
My consciousenss is not illuminated with ultimate radiances.
Nevertheless, in complete composure, I think it would eb good if certain things were said."
"I am black; I am in total fusion with the world, in sympathetic affinity with the earth, losing my id in the heart of the cosmos...
27)~ Thus Fanon reaches into the experience and meaning of the black man's alienation.
The white man, who has been obsessed with eradicating the body out of collective consciousness for millennia, now associates this abjected domain of the body with the black man, and constructs it as the essential evil Other.
The white man does this because he is insecure—he does this out of hatred, a hatred that he works to cultivate, that consumes his time and energy.
The white man is dehumanized.
"O my body, make of me always a man who questions!"To an extent, a liberating and poignant experience.
Again: "It is the racist who creates the inferiorized...The Jew is one whom other men consider a Jew: that is the simple truth from which we must start ...It is the anti-Semite who makes the Jew." (analysis by Jean Paul Sartre) -Frantz Fanon (Black Skin, White Masks, p.
73)As Fanon realized while confronted with the atrocity of the past: "there is no white world; there is no white ethic-anymore than there is a white intelligence.
As someone without much formal training in psychology or sociology, and (more significantly) as a white middle-class male, it difficult for me to find a comfortable vantage from which to discuss this book -- and perhaps that uneasiness is part of the point.
Fanon's exegesis of the impact of colonialism on colonized peoples, and the psychological displacement and cultural violence that arises from such interactions, is compelling and exact.
Notions like "wounded identity" (eg, attachment to an injurious sense of self and history), cultural hegemony, and "post traumatic stress" are all here in nascent form, and should be counted among Fanon's contributions to our understanding of the self.
haunting and rightfully paranoid thought on anti-blackness as "psycho-existential structure", and for a psych h8r like myself an inspired bit of disciplinary criticism (from the vantage of the behaviourist turn, eyeing both philosophy and methods, with an absolutely cutting bit on adlerian psychoanalysis as a way of laundering and privatising general dishonour towards the end) and an example of what fanon himself calls "methodological dereliction". analysis at the tempo of emergencya puzzle- demands a 3rd read
Questions:On summary comparison, it's hard to overstate how bloodless and jilted the 2008 (Richard Philcox)translation seems next to to the 1967 Charles Lam Markmann.
Somebody that speakie de French, take a look!
Tell me!compare here: http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/08021...(Note that it says that this one is the Constance Farrington Translation here, but that is wrong.)with here:http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/08021...With some of the original French here: http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peau_noi...How much you want a bet that Philcox is English and Markmann is not?
Still, a striaght man with that much penis in his name ought to be able to handle the french language.
And, anyone know about the Constance Farrington one (1963)?
I was reading Blacks Skin, White Masks to compare how much things have really change in relation to the conditions of black people or people of color on a world scale.
Fanon had a deep insight into the psychological impact of racism and white supremacy on black people.
This book explores the different dimensions of racism and the psychology of black people in a white supremacist world.
Black Skins White Masks remains an important contribution today in the struggle's of black people and people of color in their quest for a true humanity.
رائع رغم صعوبته خاصة بالانجليزية، فانون متقدم عن عصره بمراحل وعن عصرنا ربما، ينصح به.
دراسة بسيكولوجية عميقة للعلاقة بين الأبيض والأسودلن تخرج من هذا الكتاب كما دخلت
it's a fucking joy reading this with other black people.
i felt like oprah bread everyday, millions and more.
i read the translation that had the fact edited back out, and if the colorline is that factual exteriority beyond how or what blackness feels or is, the hashtag of external mattering shattering this mass-mediated social present, then otherwise must be or approach a collaborative becoming in black elsewheres.
fanon's culmination of our queer futural absconding remains critical in canonical resistance as erotic difference and defiance.
against speculative shattering and neurotic anti-sociogenic non-being.
a question for the questioning body is also what is other than the other?

this book is a wound. it is a seminal text in (to borrow from berger) ways of seeing--and, along with audre lorde's sister outsider, it taught me about the uses of anger.
4.5
Rien à dire excepté que ce livre était difficile et ennuyeux. J'ai eu du mal à comprendre les idées de l'auteur. Le récit est submergé de misogynie, de généralisations et de contradictions. Apparemment, cet oeuvre n'est connu que pour le fait qu'il soit l'un des premiers à aborder des sujets compliqués tels que l'identité noire et le problème du classicisme des races, mais c'est pas le meilleur qu'il en soit.
But every single line in the book carries great weight, not only of vehement critique of European racism but also the outrage of an anguished soul of a white Negro at the traumatization of his fellows.
What I find very interesting about this book is Fanon doesn't follow the well-trodden path of exclusively decrying European racism but he emphasizes on the liberation of the Negroes from an inferiority complex and the revival of the desire to find one's value through their existence.
Some say his books are difficult to read but despite some of the medical/psychiatric termingologies he was always on point and what he writes is still relevant in today's world.
If France was so racist and biased as he state in his book why would Josephine Baker, Langston Hughes, Richard Wright, James Baldwin, Miles Davis and Charlie Parker choose to live there.
The only aspect I found missing from this book is his opinion on Black American ex-patriots living in France.
Did these African-Americans living in Paris not realize the effect of colonolism on all Africans in the Diaspora?, or were they treated as "Honorary Whites" in France.

This book is incredibly honest and would put Sartre's introduction to "The Wretched of the Earth" in context.
If you don't want to go through the whole book; the introduction, the first chapter and the conclusion make the case about "the Black destiny" being "White".
The most emotionally charged chapter for me that is worth coming back to more than once is the fifth.
While many folks refer to this book and its central theme of psychoanalysis, I don't find the content as important as the emotional depth and honesty.
Fanon takes Aimé Césaire's words and flies into the deep wounds of human suffering and commences an eternally readable work.
It has taken me a whole year to read this book (although I read several chapters several times over the course of the past year). What an important phenomenological countering of Hegel, a necessary racialization of Freud, Lacan, et al; definite sexism and perhaps essentializing in the attempt to display the psychological/phenomenological conditions of the Black individual, but nonetheless, a truly important work for understanding the actual embodied experience of racism.Using the "Look, A Negro!" passage as the beginnings of a theory of ambivalence that can be used for queer bodies.
A faux-intellectual hotep’s manual. Archaic, misogynistic, queer-phobic and hardly useful. Heavy jargon and endless diaspora narratives with neither much direction nor sensibility.
I really won't do this justice so I won't be bother, but I'll remind you to be critical especially when reading the chapters on the 'MOC and the white woman' and 'WOC and the white man'.

Important historical person of colour perspective for on colonialism and racism. Too bad the book is peppered with misogynistic and homophobic arguments (white womyn and homo men want to raped?!? Black womyn want to have children with white men to create more white lineage?! Say what?!) and the long sections on analysis is obviously extremely dated, dull and irrelevant.
Fanon has a very poetic way of addressing the whiteness/blackness problem. I was surprised to say the least, expecting a fiery argument in academic language, seen as Fanon is a proper academic mind. Fiery he definitely is, but in an utterly refreshing and compelling sort of way. Fanon draws from own experience, or rather lets the first person narrator undergo racism. What follows is a brilliant alternation between reflections on being "the negro" and heartfelt poetic outbursts. Not your average academical study.
