https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87715.Indian_Summer_of_a_Forsyte
This book was a complete surprise.
But what a lovely surprise it was.
I cannot remember reading about aging and approaching death with such candor.
Jolyon is 85 years old, and as his life approaches its end, his perception of beauty and love sharpens.
If in the previous book in the Forsyte saga, John Galsworthy impressed me with his perceptive social commentary; in here it is his understanding of human nature that shines through.
I highly recommend it, especially for those of us with aging parents or grand-parents.
Actually, I recommend to anyone who needs a reminder of what is important in life.
Melodrama, but good melodrama. And short (a few hours at most).
Old Jolyon was easily the most likable and sympathetic character in A Man of Property, so, while it's sad to see him exit the series, it's also a pleasure to get to spend more time with him. This short installment is necessarily less sordid than its predecessor, and so I enjoyed it quite a bit more. Its musings on life and death are thought-provoking, even if the short length keeps the story as a whole from reaching any great depth.
Nice short story and interlude between the major novels of this Saga.
A few things popped into my mind: There is no fool like and old fool (Old Jolyon); Beauty is Art and a real attempt to bring Oscar Wilde and his philosophies to Old Jolyon; the irreversible pull of death and the Faustian desire for just a little more time on Earth.Nice story that takes place about 5 years after Book 1 ended.
Old Jolyon is smitten with her and while most all of the family is away on vacation in Spain, he becomes close to her, and even wants to assist her financially.
But we write less about it; we are too polite to talk about it; but we need Beauty and we need old people in our lives, too.
We are willing to preserve them in our egoism to have them by our side for longer: parents, grandparents, old friends, teachers.
If he preserve his principles in perfect order, a Forsyte may live on long after he is dead."This is a short read about the power of life, the passion for beauty and the strong heart, willing to feel and breathe in Life in all its splendorous ways.What a blissful passage onto the other side!Victoria Evangelina Belyavskaya

His love for Holly, his love for the house that the Buccaneer had built, his love with being in love all burnt up his old self like Forsyte's are never supposed to do.
Galsworthy is specific: "He was living on the capital, which no Forsyte should never do." But the reader felt all the beauty with Old Jolyon, no more than noting that it was bad for him; knew what was coming; and rejoiced that he was having one great final thrill of joy that filled him to the brim only to leave him cast up a greatly thinned out thing when the love left.
In this short (55 pages) interlude between The Man of Property and In Chancery, Galsworthy explores the situation of an older man (old Jolyon, who has bought Soames' house) and a beautiful young woman (Irene Forsyte, who has left her unhappy marriage and ekes out a living giving piano lessons).
He is drawn to her beauty as so many men have been, but perhaps because of his age, he simply appreciates her without the desire to possess her.
A pearl. How beautiful! As much as I appreciated the social satire of A Man of Property, I loved more this nuanced exploration of the human condition -- that inner tension between selfless lovingkindness and selfishness playing out in every friendship. The writing is more subtle and intimate--and sometimes more stabbing.
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts...............................................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008........................................................................Interlude: Indian Summer of a Forsyte:-Indian Summer here refers not to unbearably hot 45-50 degree centrigrade summer but the soft warmth of India of post rains in September - October that here the author uses as a silent metaphor for the beautiful life of Old Jolyon in his old age after he has bought the house Bosinney built for Irene, after Bosinney is dead, where he now lives with his son Jo, Young Jolyon, and his three children from his two marriages, June and Jolyon "Jolly" and Holly.
I quite enjoyed this little "interlude" story. Old Jolyon has been my favorite character in the Forsyte Chronicles so far, so this story being focused on him was delightful. He's an old sweetheart. It was charming.
:(A sad and quick read, and quite a pivot from Man of Property.
This is the little book that breaks my heart. Every. Single. Time.
This would be a ‘novella’ today. But it’s the next section of the Forsyte Saga. Loved Old Jolyon Loved seeing how his character has developed. Love these characters.
This was a short and light book, and tragically bitter-sweet.
It is a story written by a middle aged man (Galsworthy was 50 at the time he wrote this) and I think that to express how we feel getting older and how youth never truly leaves us, it does take someone who has lived to a certain age.The story is about Old Jolyon (with his son Young Jolyon, my favorite Forsytes), being alone with his granddaughter Holly for the summer while his son is travelling with the rest of the family (bar Jolly who is in school...
3 1/2 starsThis was lovely, although, being short and meant as a sort of sandwich filler between The Man of Property and In Chancery it doesn't have a lot of substance. It fairly much just deals with the fact that Irene is very beautiful and that means she is valued. Not exactly a worthwhile reason in my eyes but John Galsworthy at least deals with the subject of beauty by writing in a beautiful way. This was a charming interlude.
This was a smaller read then the Man of property and I think it was written to explain the time between the man of property and In chauncery which is the next one I find it interesting to see how men are effected by irini and it will be interesting to see how the adding of irini in Old Joelyens will will effect the rest of the family
A good continuation to "The Man of property". I am glad that we got some closure on Irene's story and I think that after this story I started understanding Jolyon better. But not as great as the first book, of course.
As "A Man of Property" never gave the reader a look into Irene's thoughts, this interlude was a good way to get a little bit of information about how she had been feeling and what she had been thinking during "A Man of Property," and how she had been doing after the events of that book.
This book focuses mostly on Old Jolyon. I particularly enjoyed Galsworthy's descriptions of Old Jolyon's capacity for beauty in his old age. Great book!
a wonderful novella of the love of a grandfather for his family and one who has been outcast by others. The writing, setting and narrative is beautiful and compelling.
Очень и очень понравилось! Маленькая повесть, или даже рассказ, но вся пронизана светлой грустью, читается взахлеб, чуть не проехала свою станцию метро, пока читала :)
This had always been a favorite part of mine in the TV miniseries - I am sure now it will be the same for the written saga.
4 stars. Read on my Kindle as part of "The Forsyte Saga - Complete"
4½ stars. Read on my Kindle as part of "The Forsyte Saga - Complete"
A gorgeous, lingering goodbye to old Joleyn Forsyte.
