https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/439840.Midnight_Cowboy
This disconnect will accompany our fake cowboy to New York, where his dreams of becoming a highly paid gigolo for the rich ladies of the metropolis come face to face with the predatory nightlife of Times Square: They wove their way through the traffic of people whose complexions appeared never to have seen the real sun, only this topsy-turvy daylight of neon and electricity, a kind of light that penetrated the first layer of skin, even cosmetics, illuminating only the troubled colors under the surface: weary blue, sick green, narcotics gray, sleepless white, dead purple.
This was hard to read.
Authors like Cormac McCarthy seem to want to sink into and wallow in depressing and disheartening; Herlihy was just handing me a world and saying, "here.
I actually took a break from this book for a day or two because I wasn't ready to be brought back into Joe Buck's mind.Herlihy demonstrated a great ability to write compact straightfoward prose.
I was amazed by the way he showed me Joe Buck's helplessness and confusion without suggesting I look down on him or pity him.
I wanted to stop reading.
The book is a relentless assault of loneliness and confusion and hurt.
Great moments in feline cinema #2: Sure, everyone knows the movie. But I didn't even know it was originally a novel until quite recently. That is unfortunate because the novel is a brilliant portrayal of down-and-outers. Herlihy's tale of dreams and struggles in unforgiving New York is as relentless as it can be but there is a certain poetry in the characters of Buck and Ratso. The biggest difference in book from film is that we find a out a lot more about Buck; his upbringing, his torments, and
Herlihy's tale of dreams and struggles in unforgiving New York is as relentless as it can be but there is a certain poetry in the characters of Buck and Ratso.
The biggest difference in book from film is that we find a out a lot more about Buck; his upbringing, his torments, and why the likable but not-so-bright kid is so easily manipulated and trusting.
He doesn't even make it to New York until the second third of the novel and Ratso doesn't appear until close to the middle of the book..
Buck and Ratso are certainly one of the oddest and most interesting couples in either novel or film.
I have never seen the film of 'Midnight Cowboy' and I was happy that I had not seen the film when I started reading the book, I could see the characters as I would see them as opposed to two actors on a screen.
The book is also about a ever changing America and what the America dream is for both characters, a sad book in so many ways but also funny at times especially the bickering between Joe and Rizzo.
Joe's naiveness and personality shines through the book and you can not help but like him and Rizzo too, they are characters you will care about.
The 1969 film version of Midnight Cowboy is an absolute classic & one of my favourite films ever, so I approached James Leo Herlihy's original story with a little trepidation. However, his novel made me smile & feel for the characters right from the opening paragraph when Joe Buck walks out of a shop wearing his new boots.The prose is wonderful, although I did find it impossible to get Jon Voight & Dustin Hoffman out of my mind as I read. A superb book that became a classic film.
Ratso appears to be the villain as he leads Joe on in the beginning, but I felt sorry for him most of the time because his life had just been one fail after another and crazily, Joe was the tangible bright spot in his life.I've read my share of writing books and they emphasize a lot about there being some sort of “bad guy” in a story.
This is a terrific novel about an amazingly neglected man-child trying to find his way in the world.
The whole first part of the novel was left out of the movie, which begins with Joe Buck's arrival in New York City, and it is important to make real sense of some of the character's ideas (like that he could make a living off of grateful women since NYC is filled with "faggots").
I came to have real affection for Joe Buck, and I hope he found his place in the world and lived out his dreams of love and domestic bliss.
As promised, our hero is young, dumb and full of cum. He may not be a real cowboy, but he's certainly from Mishima Country. But the rest of the story was a bit of a disappointment. There's not as much sex as you'd think, the violence is weird, there's a really boring scene at Warhol's Factory (or similar) and I found it hard to care about Ratso.
Midnight Cowboy is one of those books that has not profited from the reputation of its far-better-known movie version.
Almost everyone has seen the great John Schlessinger movie of the sixties but very few have read the source novel, also called Midnight Cowboy.
Every incident and characterization is perfectly rendered and the reader instantly forgets that he or she is reading a novel.
Herlihy’s reputation as one of America’s finest novelists would probably have been better served if the movie had been less successful and more people had read the book.
This book could only have been written by someone who knows what it feels like to be an outsider in some respect; someone who understands how it is possible to prefer the company of an enemy to the prospect of being alone again.Joe has a recurring dream of a marching line of people stretching around the globe dressed in the uniform of their profession, with a great chain of golden light connecting them, while he watches from some dark corner.
Although comparisons are odious, Midnight Cowboy is similar in tone to City Of Night and unfortunately I think the latter work is a superior novel.
I think John Rechy conveys the feeling of hustling as an escape from loneliness a lot more subtly than Midnight Cowboy, which never fails to remind us page after page that Joe Buck is lonely.The book is also facile in its use of stereotypes, most notably in the Lower East Side hipster party scene.
That part was almost embarrassing in its Charlton Comics view of the beautiful people.
Not a terrible book but you'd do a lot better watching Jon Voight breathe life into this one-dimensional character.
The movie is better, one of the great movies of all time. But this is still a great story about loneliness and friendship. It is a fitting tribute to the lives of those destitute people we would rather not know too much about.
The book is just too sad, and I felt like an ass giving two stars to such unrelenting misery.So, for starters, I was under the impression this was an LGBT novel.
What Midnight Cowboy is, is a novel about poverty.
(hide spoiler)]Despite the fact that Midnight Cowboy is itself not a LGBT book, I found myself drawing parallels with the street youth depicted in David Carter's account of the Stonewall riots (Stonewall: The Riots That Sparked the Gay Revolution).
Midnight Cowboy was published in 1965, the Stonewall riots took place in 1969.
But mostly, Midnight Cowboy is about how terrible poverty is.
I loved this movie, and the book is a pretty direct piece of source material, so I knew I wasn't in for any major revolutions to the story.
I think I just like to start a story knowing that I'm already invested in the characters.
But I was amazed by how much I enjoyed Midnight Cowboy as a novel, and what a pleasure the text itself was to read through.
Reading Midnight Cowboy felt like entering a world of just me and the characters, with no intermediary storyteller between us.
Granted, it was by way of a fascination with Dustin Hoffman - working my way up to see the film.
A year later I found the story online, a free e-book somewhere, and read it in, what, a few hours?
And that was it, time to hunt down the film.
I've seen this described as a quintessential American Novel and I'd go further--it's quite possibly one of the best pieces of American writing out there.
The New York/big city life Herlihy writes about is still so present, whether literally or culturally, and the language of loneliness Joe Buck and Rizzo speak together -- my words can't do it justice.(Then I saw the movie and, well.
Not only does he create these street people, but he brings them to life with his writing and often leaves you with sympathy for their ignorance and childlike decisions.
The part of the story that raised my attention was that Herlihy was able to bring to life the cultural chaos of the late sixties in a way that brings this novel to life at a time that included Viet Nam, mass introduction of drugs, assasinations, integration, moon landings, cold wars and eventually Watergate.
Do not read this book to be entertained or informed, but rather to explore your levels of compassion, sympathy, ambivalence, apathy or disgust.
Wow - I honestly didn't know this would be so good.
and yet - it's a very odd little book, sort of.
I would say it is creative but can't seem to explain how/why - it has a dreamlike quality.
The subject matter is not my typical reading fare.
I wrote down a few pages for interesting quotes: p.
218 "Loyalty is fixation, duty is guilt, and all love is some sort of complex." I think I will use words from page 216 to qualify this little novel: gifted, sensitive, and unusual.http://bkclubcare.wordpress.com/2009/...
Although Joe Buck is clearly uneducated and too naive for his own good, he is still very likable and the writing style is so fitting that it only makes me understand him more. The story is dark and truly sad, yet Joe Buck's thoughts lend a humor that keeps the book from ever feeling overly heavy. My only hold-back from giving Midnight Cowboy five stars... There a couple of scenes that I wish had been approached with more distinction between them or, if not, the similarities had been acknowledged in some subtle way.
Midnight Cowboy by James Herlily (Simon and Shuster 1965) (Fiction) is the novel from which the Academy Award winning movie arose. The novel and the screenplay closely track each another. Joe Buck, a naive and slow-witted orphan from the southwestern U.S., moves to New York City with a plan to prostitute himself to wealthy women. There he meets the crippled small-time con artist Rico "Ratso" Rizzo who takes Joe Buck under his wing. It is a story of survival and friendship which becomes an unlikely love story. My rating: 7/10, finished 4/11/13.
Great read. Part 2 is exactly like the film but the first half is Joe Buck's entire life right up until he gets on the bus to New York and it's at odds with the weird, incomplete flashbacks we see in the film with the exception of the scene when young Joe is delivered by the blonde women to his grandmother, Sally. Heartbreaking and funny and just ... great. Git along, little dogie and read this book.
Fantastic little novel, but very bleak. An unsentimental & harrowing piece that confronts the meaning of love, loss and identity. A good book to read if you are also feeling dirt poor.
Near the end this is no longer necessary:'It occurred to him that he was doing some thinking without the aid of a mirror, and he wondered if that wasn't some kind of improvement.'The last twenty pages or so of the novel possess a transcendent power as Joe grows into a realization of a new identity in which he is ready to take on the burdens of his brother, in the person of Ratso, and to join the throngs of humanity without deluding himself.
I've seen the movie Midnight Cowboy a dozen or so times. After a recent viewing, I decided to check out the source material. The book, like the movie, is about loneliness. Herlihy was apparently a big fan of J.D. Salinger, and it's the tender look at lonely outsiders that these authors have in common. The first half of the story is wildly different from the film. Once Buck gets to New York, it's pretty similar. The movie bests it at times (with great performances by Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight), but it's still a strong book.
It's not enough to say that Midnight Cowboy is a sad book; it's more that it's human loneliness at its rawest, soul crushing worst, with a sheen of 60's weirdness. There's a little love/hope to it, but it gets right back to lonely.
Fără disperare și oarecum optimist, deși personajul lui Hoffman moare înainte de a ajunge în locul în care a visat să trăiască. Iar cântecul ăla e așa catchy.
Although different in many minor instances from the movie, the novel clearly explains the psyche and background that account for Joe Buck's behavior.
The novel deals basically with loneliness in its various forms.
There is the loneliness that pushes Joe to hustling and his longing for acceptance.
Ratso's family and childhood misfortunes, including his crippleness, even the raving Jesus freak, Mr. O'Daniel preaching to the wind in New York's streets and the squallor in which he lives.
I happened to be reading a book about iconic movies and up popped "Midnight Cowboy" the 1969 mega-hit that broke a lot of ground in the industry.
It peaked my curiosity enough to want to read the actual novel and see how closely it followed the film.
I was surprised that the book was covered rather well in detail in the movie itself.
The only difference was the movie skipped much if the detail of Joe Buck's early life and time before heading to New York.
The remainder however followed true to form of the novel.
Also, the central premise that Joe, by all reports a good looking man although a bit dumb, can't get paid to lay ANYONE in NYC in 1965, I find impossible to believe.
By then, even before then, I'm sure there were some empowered gay men (the theatre industry, the advertising industry, interior design, etc etc), not the repressed closeted ineffectual types Joe only encounters, who would have been ready, willing and able to pay.
And whilst the women he's involved with are much more empowered than the gay men, they were few and far between.
I never really cared much for the movie as I always figured it was one of those 'guy' films that I just don't get--like The Magnificent Seven The book fixes this--and fixes it beautifully.
There is much more about Joe Buck: who he is, why he's like he is, why he takes up with Rico so quickly and completely.
This is some of the best writing I've read in a long time (not counting Sherman Alexie).
But did it make me like the story?
The story is still not one of my favorites, but the story-telling....now that's a different thing entirely.
This is a very well written book and deserves a higher rating. I only gave it two stars because the subject matter was very depressing and it is not a book I would ever read again. I reccomend it even though I can't honestly say I liked it. Simalarly, I reccomend the movie Requiem for a Dream, although I will never watch it again and I really didn't care for it because of its disturbing subjects matter.
