https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211855.A_Night_of_Serious_Drinking
The narrator goes to see those who think they have escaped from the drunken world after a night of getting shit faced with a whole gaggle of people who ultimately annoy him.
But even with all these faults, it's the particularities of Daumal's humor, his fantastical inventions, his logical propositions that lead inevitably to a higher non-sense, his wordplay and wit, his sincere truth-seeking (always thirsting for transcendence), and his ultimate quirky vision that saves this book from its larger faults.
Perhaps Daumal knew this when he decided to include a 5 page index to this 113-page book (this is probably the shortest book I've ever read with a full index) with entries as varied as 'young people', 'timeless truths', 'axolotl', 'dietary systems', 'Jarry, Alfred', 'bicycle (made of gold)', 'Flatulencers', 'hashish', 'space (secretion of)', 'pre-actors', 'caterpillar', 'useless gestures (art of)', and 'ouroborism'.
What is a better occupation: to drink, to talk or to think?
René Daumal combines all three into a single continuous process.
A Swiftian satiric travelogue through a version of the contemporary world that only needed to be very slightly reconfigured to fit Rene Daumal's concerns and frustrations with it.
As Jimmy observes eloquently, there's pointed allegorical directness that would be limiting were not Daumal's imagination and wit so up to the task of getting beyond it despite his earnestness.
In particular, the insane bit at the end where the body and mind must recompose themselves out of the disorder of the prior night, Daumal's narrator apparently encoutering Daumal himself, various fevered alcoholic hazes.
It's a shame that this is the only novel he managed to finish before his untimely death.
Our narrator eventually makes his way out of the vestibule of the novel and into the text proper as, creeping upstairs in search of an exit, he finds an impossibly large space ("space is generated by need") that serves as a Accident Ward for those injured by the world, a space which opens even further into the land of "The Escapees" (those who have created a false paradise for themselves in order to be convinced that they have left the Accident Ward - and, very importantly, they do NOT drink and one should never mention drinking).
Something like a combination of Dante, early Beckett, Flann O'Brien, and a Max Ernst painting with dialogue. Equal parts satire and a survey of knowledge and language. It loses a little momentum around page 50 (where things started to feel strung together and less able to compensate for the lack of characterization) but this is one of the most inventive things I've read. Plus, near the beginning, there really is some serious drinking that goes on.
I'm not really sure what it is I just read. I need to process this...
A couple books I have read fit into this category: Nights and Days by Alfred Jarry, and Moscow to the End of the Line by Venedikt Erofeev.
These are not books simply about a drunken narrator, but a foray into a strange imaginative reality.
Daumal’s book reminds me if Dante’s Inferno met Alfred Jarry in the land of The Third Policeman.
Like Dante, the narrator has a guide to describe and to help transverse this weird world made of Clarificators, Fabricators, and the other subgroups within.
Daumal uses these strange categories of post-drinking types to satirize certain intellectual endeavors.
It is witty, poetic, inventive; however, it is also – unfortunately – a bit simplistic in its satire and overall themes.
Overall it is quite enjoyable: the first section ducks and weaves through drunken revelry, propelled by a swift, erratic energy that is a joy to read; the second section – a swiftian journey lambasting artistic and intellectual pursuits – is a bit overlong, and, as noted, simplistic, but is carried by Daumal’s wit and creativity; there is a third, concluding section, that wraps everything up fairly nicely.
On the last syllable (I had already drunk enough for it to seem perfectly natural), the guitar exploded in Gonzague’s hands.
How could a book this short be too long? A great beginning, and what starts as a great middle until you realize the middle will last for 90% of the novel. Still, I found the book to be hilarious throughout, even though there was only one joke repeated ad nauseam.
Like the Phantom Tollbooth if it had been set in a whimsical world of recovering alcoholics and set off, not by a playful dog, but by the need to heavily drink. Despite its frame, it contains really depthy discussion on a range of existential issues. It's also whimsical, weird, and, at times, all-out hilarious...
I was super into this book for the first quarter of it, when it was a bunch of drunk guys philosophizing with abundant acute points. But part 2 jumped the shark for me with the extended surreal sequence of observation that made me go crossed eyed and completely lose track of what I was reading. I was so happy it was a short book.
drunken rant transforms into social satire into spiritual parable. the drunken rant is kind of creaky -- just keep going till you get to the attic of the tavern which contains an entire country of savagely portrayed modern human types.
René Daumal's  A Night of Serious Drinking  is both a polemic attacking contemporary culture but also an ode to the necessity of unfettered escapism.
The first part of the book centres around a drinking party.
Later, our protagonist, now alone, encounters a variety of surreal situations including a fastidious analysis of a white rabbit with a group of researchers and conversations with 'Gods'.
These encounters, and their explanations, leave the protagonist lamenting the hollowness of contemporary society.
This drives him to yet more drink.
The intention here is that this constant thirst for alcohol epitomises our very real yearning for escapism, to be rid of hypercriticism in favour of pure, unadulterated, contemplative living.
A wild, rambling, excessively critical allegory with little characterization and an entirely unsatisfying conclusion, Rene Daumal's A Night of Serious Drinking was still a rather enjoyable read, despite its weaknesses.The novel reads much like the liner notes of a mid-1960s Bob Dylan record, which is to say that it doesn't make a whole lot of logical sense, but still has plenty of interesting imagery and turns of phrase.
Of course, anyone picking up A Night of Serious Drinking probably knows what he or she is in for.If there's a major flaw to be found in the book, it's that Daumal is not clear on how to make anything much better.
The book is divided into three parts and depending on your disposition you're going to like one of the three parts better than the others.
Some here have criticized the "simplistic" or otherwise over generalization of the book, but there's a self awareness that undoes some of this criticism.
Daumal nearly matches the pace of Candide or Micromégas that few can.
And like Voltaire, at points his satire is as subtle as a hammer.
If you don't like surrealism or somewhat slapstick satire, don't bother with the book.

This was OKAAAAAAY.
Definitely inventive and with great ending.
I'm with stupid, I'm with ending (that is good).
But it was pretty out there.
My friends have Mount Analogue tattooed on their ribs, so this guy's obviously a genius.
However, I wouldn't recommend this to anyone other than Dickens.
And myself, who loved it.
It's got sharp wit.
It's good for philosophy chicks and dudes.
Good for a literary mind.
A good job through the ol' cerebellum.
Not good for a summer beach read.
Just know what you're getting into, and you'll have a blast.
Do know what you're getting into.
cuckoo-clock"Patchouli-scented breezes. Glycerine dews which never evaporate on lawns of waxed paper which never fade.Angels inside filmy skeins inflated with hydrogen floated through the cataracts of limelight, their soft hands waving aeolian harps from which there emerged like snow the rustle of Viennese waltzes and jolly military songs - in a word something for everybody."
I'm a Mt. Analogue kinda guy...
Weird, hallucinatory, genius.
1992 Notebook: begins great and is fascinating, French surrealism.
Ugh. This book is by turns incoherent and uninteresting.
It is hard to understand why so many reviews of this book are favorable.
Perhaps the reviewers are suffering from some of the allegorical diseases described in the second part of the book.
From the title of the book and its description, I was hoping for something along the lines of "My Drunken Dinner With Andre." That sounded like a fun idea, but that was not at all what it turned out to be.
Wow. This was a fantastic, quick read. The first bit was especially brilliant. Then it got a bit weird and dense. Then weirder still. Then ridiculous. Then came back to just a little weird and dense. I got the feeling it would be extremely insightful, thought-provoking and wise, if only I could apply my mind to it completely, but alas, I came to it with brain already fried and distracted. I may have to read again, more slowly. Would definitely recommend to my snarky, savvy friends.
i am not ashamed to say that i decided to read this book simply because of the title.it's not all that much about drinking, though. kind of like descartes's meditations meets what i imagine gulliver's travels
This story moves from a rather hilarious tale of verbose drunkenness to a mildly amusing allegory of a society full of idiots parading around as artistic and scientific geniuses (which is supposed to sound familiar!), and then on to deliver a vague and flimsy message, which I don't even remember. If the book had gone on for much longer, I would have lost patience, but it's worth reading for the first part. And if you are in a spiteful mood about how horrible everything and everyone is, the second part might also be a balm of sorts.
"Io nego che un pensiero chiaro possa essere indicibile. (...) Se il linguaggio non esprime con precisione che un'intensità media del pensiero, è perché la media dell'umanità pensa con quel grado di intensità; è a quell'intensità che acconsente, è a quel grado di precisione che aderisce. Se non riusciamo a farci capire chiaramente, non è lo strumento che dobbiamo accusare". Daumal dà pirotecnica e paradossale dimostrazione della potenza delle parole e della debolezza del pensiero. E fa venire una gran sete. Sarebbe stato bello sbronzarsi con lui.
Holy cow. This guy is a short little shot of life, and certainly warrants a second, and possibly third reading. While I appreciated the overall satirical feel of the story, it would take another read to distinguish social commentary from deliberate nonsense (as caused by 'drinking'). Also, there were times I found myself detecting sarcasm layered on top of itself three and four times. Certainly the most challenging book I've picked up in some time.
I chose this book purely based upon the title. And apparently both the title and the story leave much to be desired. I consider myself a very perceptive and humorous person and enjoy the use of metaphors a great deal, as I do use them a lot myself. The only part of this book that really made any sense to me was the page we were told to 'read before using'. The rest, in my opinion, could only be absorbed by someone after "a night of serious drinking". Goodness.
This was an interesting read, and certainly not an easy one. The story is, at times, allegorical to a fault. It becomes difficult to follow and make sense of all of Daumal's metaphors about heaven and hell. At times, however, the story has moments of absolute lucidity. Other times, it becomes rather muddled. Over all, I'm glad I read it but I can't help thinking I didn't grasp everything he was trying to say.
