https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35696171-enlightenment-now
His new book, Enlightenment Now, is even better.Enlightenment Now takes the approach he uses in Better Angels to track violence throughout history and applies it to 15 different measures of progress (like quality of life, knowledge, and safety).
It’s like Better Angels on steroids.I read the book slowly since I loved it so much, but I think most people will find it a quick and accessible read.
Pinker covers those areas, but he also looks at more obscure topics.Here are five of my favorite facts from the book that show how the world is improving:1.
Steven Pinker takes 500 pages to create a world where everything is so fabulously much better than it ever has been, that anyone who says different is perpetuating an intellectual lie.
Unfortunately, he balances this with a tendency to ignore states or countries that don’t conform to his claims, and he swings numbers around to make them look better.
Pinker goes even further, claiming “most historians” don’t think the atomic bombings caused Japan to surrender in three days, but rather it was the potential of Russia turning its attention from west to east.-There is a great deal of nonsense about how much cheaper life is today.
(I’m going to venture a guess, since I didn’t read all of the book: the author doesn’t like ‘identity politics’ and gets bothered by ‘political correctness’ and thinks ‘both sides’ are to blame.
I don’t know if that’s where he was going, but I wasn’t going to find out by wading thru a familiar story I’ve read better told in other books).The author is completely out of his depth on economics and inequality.
This author was teaching me nothing I didn’t already know, and worse than that seemed to have a disregard for the truth by trying to defend his own thesis beyond what the facts would take a reasonable person.
Why I won't be reading this:https://www.theguardian.com/commentis...
Nevertheless, some traditional environment groups persist in denying them to the world.I just loved this quote from the book: In 1976, Mao single-handedly and dramatically changed the direction of global poverty with one simple act: he died.Pinker devotes chapters to improvements in the environment, and the problem of climate change.
Pinker lists all of the ways in which President Trump has resisted progress, and backtracks to a less advanced way of life: Reversal of health care, reversal of globalism, reversal in the growth of wealth, reversal of the environment, safety, law and order, international trade, equal rights, tolerance, and the judicial system.
We are not, contrary to popular belief, going backwards, and have in fact made astounding progress in all measurable areas, such as wealth, health, safety, education and equality.Faced with the numbers, it's hard to disagree, though I went into this fairly convinced already.
One example I checked on was his source for the claim that black people are no more likely to be shot by police than white people in America.
His single source for such a bold claim - here - actually found that black people were more likely to be shot by police than white people, but offered an opinion as to why this might be.
O livro é uma continuação do Os Anjos Bons da Nossa Natureza: Por Que a Violência Diminuiu, onde o Pinker escreve porque a humanidade está progredindo em quase todos os sentidos, apesar de termos a impressão do contrário.Para alguém como eu, que não tem a menor bagagem filosófica, esta obra foi excelente.
Se você não leu Anjos Bons, parta direto para este que traz uma lição mais abrangente e mais bem argumentada, ainda que menos detalhada, sobre como a humanidade está avançando a passos cada vez mais rápidos.O destaque para mim ficou com a parte 3 onde ele combina ciência, razão e conhecimento para argumentar por onde poderíamos caminhar para avançar ainda mais rápido.
Ever since Bill Gates tweeted his endorsement for Pinker's Better Angels, fans have rushed to support his writing of big ideas by big thinkers!Enlightenment Now illustrates Pinker's practical yet tangible style, but is freshly positive as well. His explosive understanding toward social science and political empathy will appeal to all big thinkers and affirmative readers alike.
To prove this, Pinker offers fourteen separate chapters, each covering a totally different area of progress, demonstrating that since the Scientific Revolution human conditions have gotten better.Pinker starts with Life—he shows how life expectancy, both at birth and at later periods of life, has dramatically increased over time—or, rather, since the Industrial Revolution in the West, and since the early twentieth century in much of the rest of the world.
Everyone should read Enlightenment Now. It seems odd to require a defense of reason, science, humanism and progress, but we suffer if we do not understand how far humanity has come by application of these principles.
A quote from Barack Obama summarizes this view: "If you had to choose a moment in history to be born, and you did not know ahead of time who you would be - you didn't know whether you were going to be born into a wealthy family or a poor family, what country you'd be born in, whether you were going to be a man or a woman - if you had to choose blindly what moment you'd want to be born, you'd choose now."This account of progress plays out on a variety of quantifiable measures, and it's not just good news for denizens of first world countries.
This book is a sequel to Steven Pinker's other book "The Better Angels of our nature". The "The Better Angels of our nature" is a detailed comparison of violence in history. And how it reduced. The reasons for reduction and existence of these violences was covered. But "Enlightenment now" Covers other topics such as health, wealth, knowledge and many more. These two books have changed my mind about many of my core beliefs such as anarchism, nuclear energy, and endless other topics.
In his newest book, (Neoliberalism) Now: The Case for (Positivism), Scien(tism), (Atheism), and (Globalization), Steven Pinker seeks to cash in on the Trump election by rushing out what is mostly a rehash of material from his previous book, The Better Angels of Our Nature.
If you are interested in learning about humanity's recent exponential growth in material wellbeing, there are much better books on the subject that I highly recommend to you instead, such as Bourgeois Dignity, The Rational Optimist, The Ultimate Resource, or The Skeptical Environmentalist.Part III: Pinker uses pop psychology to pathologize anyone who disagrees with him politically.
According Pinker’s diverse compilation of world health data, beginning in the mid nineties and continuing to the present and foreseeable future, global life spans, individual purchasing power, heath and wellbeing (by a multitude of measures) are all hella on the rise, while violent crime, poverty and disease are on the yard dart (see footnote at end of review) like trajectory nose dive decline.
T. Barnum style ascent, lending support to the O.G.’s (difficult at this particular historical juncture to deny) assertion that there’s ‘a sucker born ever minute’.Pinker invites us all to simply stop watching cable news (the overwhelmingly ‘uge’ beneficiaries of the Trumpster fire none of us can easily take our eyes off of) and have a look at some Good Organized Data (GOD).
Pinker’s latest is getting a lot of press, of course.Here are a few links:His own synopsis at the Wall Street Journal:  The Enlightenment Is Working  (paywall; try Googling wsj The Enlightenment Is Working and clicking through from Google, maybe into “private browsing mode”. Works sometimes.)Ezra Klein of Vox is a pretty good interviewer, and he hooked up with Pinker at his podcast. I  really  liked that they both name-dropped Dan Kahan's work at his Cultural Cognition Project at Yale Law School
Here’s the text from that review — if you yank out Ridley and insert Pinker, I strongly suspect my critique of Enlightenment Now would be congruent:MaterialismRidley points out that humans have evolved into incredibly efficient organisms at solving the problems our paleolithic ancestors faced.
Most humans alive today have access to food, health and a length of life that would astonish even our great-grandparents.And given how important those things are in our life, I’m also optimistic that we’re going to keep getting better at them.
review to come
Very uplifting reading, especially for pessimists like me.
He clearly points out the effect of distorted/exaggerated news, the negative bias of people, dirty politics and the lack of reason behind all the sky-is -falling attitude that seems to dominate communities.I have learned so many good facts from this book that helped me view things differently such as the global Cosmopolitanism, 8x increase in number of countries ruled by democracy within the last 50 years, the increased life quality and expectancy.He believes in our ability to create solutions and adapt.
(and act accordingly)Great book, I am so glad I read it.
This book will no doubt earn the author a lanyard to every corporate boardroom and conservative think tank in the country.His thesis is that Enlightenment principles must be defended – but not against mindless consumerism, not against the growing disparities of wealth, not against the disruption of earth systems.
Yes, the idea of progressive thinking is that maintaining a heightened level of concern can motivate greater gains towards Enlightenment ideals – unless, that is, you are an 'intellectual' who, when maintaining a heightened level of concern, is just being unappreciative of the meaty bone the status quo has already thrown you.Pinker says “police shoot too many people, but it’s not primarily a racial issue”.
And I would love if everyone fact checked and powerful people and interests bowed to reasoned argument and were willing to eat there profits, put up with regulation, and sacrificed shareholder value for the long term benefit of all based on calm rational inquiry and argument but that isn't how the all too human political arena works.Reason and enlightenment values like the philosopher king of Plato should rule the roost but it never seems to get voted in.
I like Pinker's book I would want it to be on a philosopher kings shelf but reason by itself can't move entrenched power.
His argument is simply that if we stand a chance at confronting these challenges, we must stick with the enlightenment values of Reason, Science and Humanism that have achieved progress in the past.Agree or disagree (everyone will have quibbles, and many will accuse Pinker of outright sophistry), this is an essential read that will be talked about (Bill Gates just named it his "new favorite book of all time").
As for myself, my puzzlement is over why Pinker's arguments seem so contrarian when they should be part of the mainstream.I had the privilege of reading an Advance Release Copy.
In Enlightenment Now: The Case for Reason, Science, Humanism, and Progress, Steven Pinker spends 550+ pages attempting to disavow you of any notion of "the good ol' days".And he IS pretty convincing.
He's got stats and graphs and lots of evidence to bolster his case that we live in amazing times - that progress and Enlightenment-era ideals have lead to better conditions in almost every measurable sphere.
That's a good thing to remember, and a clarion call to keep going with research and evidence-based activism.
I see a lot of hostile commentary on this book.
My opinion is that they didn’t read it as they hash the same issues that the author addresses.
This book is flawed.
They want you to sit down and solve problems - not wait for things on faith and not always be wanting to tear the structure down.
The structure is working and the doomsday doomers (which I find myself gravitating too at times) are wrong.
I think this book is worth reading.
It’s the best book I’ve read so far this year.
And they are coming out of poverty because of a communist party running a capitalist economy (with disregard for human rights) in ways overlooked by Pinker for free-trade American-style that has 8 men (including Bill Gates) owning more than half the world's population!
To apply oversimple and overgeneral Pinker-logic that there are more slaves than there ever has been means one can conclude the world is worse than it ever has been.
Pinker euphemises the consensus of contingent American liberal-humanists as Reason.
This massive undertaking examines the progress of human welfare in almost all aspects of life, and covers the most pressing questions about health, income, inequality, violence, safety, democracy, freedom, human rights, knowledge, happiness, climate change, artificial intelligence, and more.
Objection #2: Bad things still happen so isn’t progress an illusion?Pinker never makes the claim that violence, death, disease, suffering, or poverty has or ever will reach zero instances.
In the words of Pinker:“The idea that the ultimate good is to use knowledge to enhance human welfare leaves people cold.
This book is Pinkers best attempt to defend the enlightenment; that is to say humanism, science and reason.
I agree with Pinker in that we are living the best possible time but what bothers me is the fact that I believe that the welfare state won't be able to sustain this growth (or progress if you will).
Although Pinker has a certain classical liberal leaning, he is not very worried about the implications of an ever expanding welfare state: the destruction of the family, mass immigration, and the infantilization of citizens in the west.
While my values often may coincide with Pinkers, I believe in a slow and organic change in society, rather than a forced political one.
Pinker points out early in this book that people have a tendency to marshal evidence that confirms their convictions whilst dismissing evidence that contradicts them.
He’s completely dismissive of the Elon Musk/Stephen Hawking arguments about the threat of AGI, (which made me feel rather foolish, since on this website I’ve previously written a favourable review of a book which articulates those fears).
Pinker when it comes to the threats to progress posed by nationalism, populism, political extremism (of the left and right) and religious fanaticism, all of which seem to be on a world-wide upswing at the moment.
What is progress? You might think that the question is so subjective and culturally relative as to be forever unanswerable. In fact, it’s one of the easier questions to answer. Most people agree that life is better than death. Health is better than sickness. Sustenance is better than hunger. Abundance is better than poverty. Peace is better than war. Safety is better than danger. Freedom is better than tyranny. Equal rights are better than bigotry and discrimination. Literacy is better than ill
The difficulty I had is that while author Steven Pinker does define and defend each of these principles throughout the book, he is actually attempting to make the case for optimism – as though the entire world today has progressed in the direction of betterment (to greater or lesser degrees), as a direct result of Enlightenment thinkers, and as there isn't any problem facing us that can't be solved by doubling down on Enlightenment thinking and the advancement of science and technology, anyone who tends to pessimism (whether over the environment, existential angst, or the rise of populism and despotism) simply needs a long history lesson about all the ways in which things have gotten better and better.
Steven Pinker was one of the first writers to kindle my passion for scientific thinking. When I read  The Blank Slate  in 2011, it exposed me to a host of intellectual disciplines that my undergraduate training in philosophy had neglected––most notably evolutionary psychology, skepticism, and the empirical foundations of human nature. Nearly a decade later, I am thrilled not only to have another opportunity to journey through Pinker’s impressive mind, but also that his chosen message is rooted i
He advocates for “Ecomodernism,” a nascent field of study founded on three tenets: (1) some degree of pollution is unavoidable due to the entropic nature of the universe, (2) industrialization has generally been good for humanity, and (3) technology is the primary tool we should use to mitigate environmental damage without relinquishing the myriad benefits of modern life (123-4).While Second Culturists will surely write Pinker off as an obsequious technocrat beguiled by the corrupt comforts of elite capitalist culture, a sober assessment of Ecomodernism reveals it as the most reasonable and realizable approach for dealing with climate change.
This is nonfiction and it covers a giant host of various topics, including politics, racism, war, etc.
The author moved effortlessly and quickly from topic to topic to topic.
So the 4 stars is for the entertainment value that I was able to place on this.
Now with all that said, it usually bothers me when the author slants all the info to fit his views and then completely glosses over other things that might deflate his defense.
While this author did that (abundantly), I didn't find it offensive or annoying.
He had some well placed humor to soften that reaction.
I didn't feel the same way about Pinker.All of this isn't helped by how reading this book felt equivelent to eating raw almonds.
I know he's not trying to say that we shouldn't work hard to improve the world, but I don't particularly feel any inspiration from this book, particularly when the vast majority does try to read as a pat on the back in spite of his introduction.
I felt like a majority of his arguments were flaccid with the occasionally toxic take, and this book in general was overbloated.
Ok, it took me a while to finish this one not because something is wrong with it but because the amo
