https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28295.Things
Things: A Story of the Sixties predates all those tiresome novels about corporate-culture ennui, Ballardian death of affect, and dehumanisation through advertising and leaves them weeping into their MaxPower V9 toasters-cum-dildos.
Perec narrates from a distance, leaving his characters Sylvie and Jérôme to fumble through a blank lower bourgeois existence, besotted with appliances and desperate to shimmy up the ladder without accepting their place as adults.
By piling up descriptions, razor-sharp character analysis and cultural scene-setting, Perec captures the painful loneliness of upwardly mobile corporate life—his writing glitters with perfect, wrenching subtlety and humour.
This book brings together two early novellas by Georges Perec, who is best known for Life: A User's Manual.
These are not easy stories to review, and neither is essential to understanding Perec, so I'll just write a few brief notes.Things follows a Parisian couple in their 20s and explores the way their lives are determined by material possessions, and follow stereotypical paths for all of their attempts at individuality.
Although this sounds critical the story is told in a matter-of-fact non-judgmental way.
A Man Asleep is a rather bleak tale of a young man losing interest in life, probably inspired by Kafka.
Two intriguing and poignant novellas (Perec's first published work) that you can clearly see had a influence when approaching Life: A Users Manual years later.
With Perec, all the little finer details matter, just passing through the day is done in a way that draws vivid images, pondering over life with a thought process that digs deeper into your soul.
Despite his characters trapped, weary and decelerating actions, Perec's fertile imagination throughout is fresh and appealing, delivering a worthy read for any Perec fan, and actually a good place to start for anyone thinking of Reading Life: A Users Manual.An Impressive work.
But I read Flings, then Things and Strings and Wings have faded into the unserious penumbra of whimsy which seems to follow me around most days.This novel is not really a novel, it’s a rueful self-filleting, a wry meditation , a cool, dry analysis, of Georges’ own generation of early 1960s lower middle-class slackers.
Okay, one thing does happen to our tiresome and fraying at the edges couple – they observe their circle of friends dwindling as they each decide to join the salaried middle class properly by getting proper jobs and going to live in the suburbs.
That they are "right in the middle of the most idiotic, the most ordinary predicament in the world" (Perec) from which the majority of them won't be able to escape.This, then, would be most fun for me: for them to read this book as I watch their faces when they see themselves in there and , by magic, I also get to see their thought processes as they get horrified, in one small step after another, as Perec describes to them their hell.
The only glaring anachronism is the married protagonists' irregular employment as market researchers - replace that with freelance web or graphic design and Perec has perfectly parodied any couple in their late 20s currently vibing on down in Hoxton, Williamsburg or Fitzroy.
Highly recommended, this is a satisifying yet quick read UNLESS you over-indulge in the litany of ideal home furnishings that Perec satirises in the opening chapters.
I AM the person that Perec is parodying.
Four stars, that man.
Sadly, the novella in the bunk below, 'A Man Asleep', is all rather hopeless - a shuffling two star character sketch that attempts to describe a student teetering on the precipice of lethargy.

(Yeah, I actually think about stuff like that, and yeah it burns my biscuits.) 2) I was so jazzed up after reading Things: A Story of the Sixties that I probably could have written a pretty good review: you read A Man Asleep and you become less enthused.
You keep reading the book and thinking that it reminds you a bit of Beckett and you don't really enjoy most of his stuff.
You find it tolerable, but tedious and repetitive.
You find it repetitive and tedious.
Will you ever return to write a proper review of the book you actually liked?
Θα επανέλθω αναλυτικότερα καθώς διαβάζω για τρίτη φορά και τις δύο ιστορίες του βιβλίου. Το "A man asleep" αν το είχα διαβάσει 2-3 πριν θα ήταν μέσα στα 4-5 αγαπημένα μου βιβλία. Το "Things" μου άρεσε λιγότερο απ' το "A man asleep", αλλά δεν μπορώ να σταματήσω να το σκέφτομαι.Σίγουρα καταλαμβάνει πολύ χώρο μέσα μου. Βάλε και το ότι διάβασα σχετικά πρόσφατα το "Ούτις" του Σαμσών Ρακά, θα κάνω καιρό να πιάσω άλλο βιβλίο.Μέχρι μέσα Μαρτίου, μόνο artbooks των ταινιών του Miyazaki!ΥΓ: Ευχαριστώ την πιθανότατα μεγαλύτερη φαν του Περέκ παγκοσμίως που μου το έδωσε.
This combines two novels from Georges Perec.
They have a deep hunger to live the good life, and try any and everything to get there.
The story is largely about materialism, and people not living the lives they think they deserve.
A Man Asleep is the story of a young student who veers in completely the opposite direction, and desires nothing, even working to rid himself of desire in general.
The main character/narrator never even gets a name.I'm not a big "literary" reader a lot of the time, but I try and branch out occasionally.
And it's a scathing critique of the way modern western life is based around consumption ("But money -- and this point cannot but be an obvious one -- creates new needs.") Every other page seems quotable: "They lived in a strange and shimmering world, the bedazzling universe of a market culture, in prisons of plenty, in the bewitching traps of comfort and happiness." Things is light on plot, with the most momentous shift occurring when Jerome and Sylvie (the never-ending "they" of the narrative) move to Sfax, Tunisia.
If I looked hard, I could see the lines of the window ledge in the original photograph were now composed by a tree branch and the silhouetted edge of a grass verge.Of course the inevitable happens, and the narrator experiences a kind of Proustian collapse:Strongest of all was the feeling of 1982-ness: dizzy, illogical, as if none of the intervening disasters and wrong turns had happened yet.
And yet here I am.Almost near the end of A Man Asleep, Perec describes one of the walks as feeling "like a messenger delivering a letter with no address." This is pretty apposite.
So we start with Things, a rather charming story about that hipster couple you know that are always trying to point out the ways in which it may look like they have sold out, but they totally haven't, promise. A Man Asleep is a rather more, nail-biting, more deliberately Oulipo affair. I appreciate it because it marks Perec's move from that sort of charming, a-bit-of-Godard-here, a bit-of-Tati-there, very '50s/'60s French writing into weirder, wilder territory. It's not a great first step -- hell, it's a bit boring, actually -- but it paved the way for his '70s masterpieces.
we were packing our things and moving cities when i read this, i finished reading this, "before they had at least a passion for possessing...and then what? What had they done?" the author spoke of sylvie and jerome. In the epilogue, it said "the quest for truth itself must be true," barring any formal disjunct. In "A Man Falls Asleep," a lake is born in the middle of the man's head, and is that not pretty, water flowing, dancing like sea somewhere near your cerebellum?
Alas, when he gets to the end of his troubles, our young man is no longer quite so young, and, to cap his misfortune, it can even seem to him that his life is behind him, that it consisted only of his striving and not of what he strove for, and even if he is too cautious, too sensible - his slow climb has given him plenty of experience - to dare to say such things to himself, it will none the less be true that he will be forty, and straightening out his home and his weekend place and his children's education will have filled more than adequately the few hours he will have been able to spare from his work .
Life is a wonderful book about the possibilities of a story in an age of excessive post-modern exploration and specifically, I think, in response to the question of how one writes a good novel when others have already tried to exhaust the more conventional forms (Robbe-Grillet and Beckett, etc.).
The funny thing is that the book -- what I read of it -- is just as well written as "Things", but it's amazing what a difference the choice of topic makes!I personally prefer Chapter 52 of "Life: A User's Manual" over "Man." I think, there, instead of the apathy taking over the whole book as it did here, it is merely one mini-story in the larger idea of a rich and varied life of experiences, emotions, objects, time, and so on.
Each thing I've read by him has been significantly different from each other, each has been strong.
(Did you forget that that long-winded sentence was working toward being a question?) According to David Bellos' introduction, Perec, himself, went thru a similar period to that of the main character (essentially the 'only' character) in "A Man Asleep".
Now he's a street person who claims he doesn't know what happened to himself - except that he developed a problem of feeling "paralyzed" & incapable of doing things.
&, of course, there's Perec's writing itself.
"Things," the first novella, includes maybe some of the best autobiographical-seeming expository stretches (no dialogue, no traditional scenes) about life from age 21 to 30 (albeit here in the '60s in Paris and Tunisia) I've read.
Excellent and worthwhile in terms of descriptions of a young man's life (mostly) in Paris in the early '60s, but even an intentional project by a writer as good as Perec to describe cracks in the ceiling and what you see when you close your eyes or what it's like to read the newspaper didn't really seem to me to serve as too much more than an excellent soporific.
The meticulous cataloging of objects and decor, room by room, in various dwellings presages the later Life: A User's Manual and evokes Alain Robbe-Grillet, plus no Frenchman can write about the hypnagogic state of awareness without someone thinking of Proust."Things" draws on Perec's own experience as a young man of working in the nascent field of market research (as well as some time in the provincial Tunisian city of Sfax).
(Hell, I probably am them.) And even if the satire is a bit too obvious, Perec delves beneath it - turning the never-ending litany of objects and what they symbolise into an almost mystical experience; it's not a sibling of Herzog's Fata Morgana, but definitely a distant cousin.That said, it's not a nice novel by any stretch.
Young Perec is ruth- and merciless in the way he eviscerates his characters...
It's a novel to admire, but unlike much of his later work, it sneers where it might have winked.
The first novel in this book, Things: A Story of the Sixties, outlines a 20-something couple in 1960s Paris.
They are incredibly materialistic, and the only interesting thing that they really do in the whole book is decide to temporarily move to Tunisia.
But there is apparently no reason for how the depression comes about, and chemical assistance is never discussed (not that it's always effective, but it might have made this guy more...I don't know, interesting?
I know I've used that word too much already in this review, but I'm at a loss--I was really uninterested in this book).
Of the two books in this one volume I prefered Things, I've done the emigration thing about 3 times now and I'm considering a 4th. I also liked the use of the possessions of the story in driving the story on.
Both of these stories are unlike anything I've ever read before. It takes a minute to get your head around but once you do, I think they're both brilliant
Depressed patients who are extremely gifted with words?
A bit long but interesting afterwards.
The fatalest problem is that I cannot look inside characters in the story. All of them are hollow images.
It's hard to pick only one lane, it's hard to find the courage to choose only one life to live to the fullest because of the possibility - no, the certainty - that you'll either go on that path and turn back, regretting you have ever started, or you'll go as far as you can and realise you're still not happy, you still want something else, something more.
Why do we choose not to live life to the fullest?
Perec wants you to live without fear, without anxiety, without restraint.
A pair of strange little novelettes."Things" describes a couple of materialists, obsessed by things, who cannot really enjoy them. Who yearn for experiences and luxuries that they ultimately find tasteless and pointless."A Man Asleep" is even stranger, and describes a student who literally puts himself to sleep. Who drops out of the world into a half life of somnambulism, without hope of redemption.Both tales are relevant to our own age of runaway materialism and "A Man Asleep" could be any of those zombies walking along the road clutching a smartphone.
Read for university, found it oddly relevant to my life but alas was not an enjoyable read.
He is "asleep."[return][return]The interest here is the form of life Perec is trying to imagine.
Because the character does very little, and spends days on end in his tiny garret, it seems to owe its torpor and pessimism to Beckett, especially early Beckett like "Murphy." But Beckett's willful self-paralysis is presented as a condition of life, of living.
But I don't think that's right either, because Perec is at pains to say that his character is not a flaneur: he doesn't take any interest in what he sees, and in fact he trains himself not to care.
(But which Goldsmith himself completely ignores when he reads: but that's another matter.)[return][return]The book is also interesting for its second-person narration.
