https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10913.Keeping_Faith
In short, complications ensue for father, mother, daughter, and the hot Southern television guy that's supposed to be proving Faith to be a fraud if he wasn't falling for her mom.My irritation at this book exists on many levels.
I then remembered what a predictable book this had been up to that point and sure enough, we had to endure a hundred pages or so of courtroom scenes where Picoult desperately wanted us to think that the happily ever after for mother/daughter was in jeopardy.Those are just a few things that bothered me.
Ay yi yi..ok, no more Jodi Picoult books..I always say that and then end up reading more...I WANT to like her books...and they always have sooo much potential...then, always...always always...they disappoint...I was especially excited about this one because of her latest interveiw she talked about this book and how it's her favorite and most challenging so far because of it's ground breaking subject matter...Stigmata?
Are you serious Jodi?
I DO like Jodi's characters though,the Ian Fletcher atheist characte was charming, but I was really hoping for some "come to Jesus" moment for him after his experience with his brother.
This book was pretty good, overall.
Definitely kept you reading, wondering what was going to happen next and, of course, WHY!?
There were a few things that bothered me about it though.
I think there were too many questions left unanswered.
I understand that maybe this was purposeful, but I didn't like it, personally.
I was also put off by the fact that the story was told 'about' several different characters, in the third person, but ONE character was told in first person.
Overall though, it was a powerful story that made you think, whatever your personal beliefs are.
However, Keeping Faith just didn’t hold its momentum for me.
Recently separated from her husband, Mariah and her strong willed mother are attempting to raise Mariah’s seven year old daughter Faith with as minimum disruption as possible.
Mariah is chronically depressed due to her husbands infidelity, and as such is neglecting her child.
Keeping Faith differs slightly from the other books but the writing remains true to the Picoult style.
Oh well, hopefully the next Picoult book I pick up will help make up for the time spent on this one.
I loved this book while I was reading it, and I was very disappointed by the ending.
A mother who has just discovered that her husband is cheating on her (several years after another cheating incident lead her to a suicide attempt) finds out that her daughter has an imaginary friend--God...who happens to be a woman.
Faith's father sues for custoday, and there's some question as to whether the mother might be forcing her daughter to do this for attention.But they never actually say whether Faith is actually seeing God, or whether she's making it up, or whether her mother planted the idea in her mind somehow.
4.5*Absolutely fascinating. I love the mixed religion, religion in court, stigmata, psychological and medical, and family dynamics themes that arise while reading this book. This was one of my favorite Jodi Picoult books so far. My marathon continues with Change of Heart!My short and sweet overall: interesting story and entertaining characters!
In any other child, this may not be startling; however, Mariah has raised her seven-year-old with no religion present in the household.Things go from strange to miraculous as Faith begins spontaneously healing people, developing stigmata, and speaking with her "guard." Could Faith truly be speaking with God, or is she delusional?Atheist Ian Fletcher is a cynic, and decides to investigate the story for his anti-evangelical television show.
After awhile, he finds himself drawn to Mariah...and after further investigation, he's not ready to draw any conclusions about her daughter.Not as compelling as some of Picoult's other books; it had a slow start, but was intriguing and made me want to know what happened in the end.
My impression was that readers would be allowed to come to our own conclusions about this (whether it was real, invented by Faith, invented by her mother for attention, etc.), but it doesn't work out that way: clearly, within the context of the story, Faith is healing people, experiencing stigmata and so forth.
The story of how her mother Mariah, the local churches and the media react to this phenomenon is somewhat interesting, but hardly requires a book of this length.
Unless this is your taste in guilty-pleasure reading, I'd recommend moving on to books of real quality.
I think I fell in love with Ian just when Mariah did—when she and Faith saw him interact so sweetly with Michael.
Totally by accident, I happened to read Keeping Faith right before the release of Change of Heart, and I was delighted to discover that Ian Fletcher was 'resurrected' in that novel.
To me, Change of Heart was worth reading just to learn about how Ian, Mariah and Faith were faring since I last left them.
Although I liked Keeping faith better than Change of Heart, I found both books captivating.
3  starsThe story is a bit formulaic as most Jodi Picoult books are but sometimes that makes for comfort reading.The story: Seven-year-old Faith is caught in the middle of her parents crumbling marriage and in much need of a friend to confide in. That is when her imaginary friend steps in. Not long after, miracles start to occur around Faith, and her mother starts to realize that Faith is not only speaking to "God", but that her God is a woman. And then the media and church gets wind of this…The
3 ½ starsThe story is a bit formulaic as most Jodi Picoult books are but sometimes that makes for comfort reading.The story: Seven-year-old Faith is caught in the middle of her parents crumbling marriage and in much need of a friend to confide in.
Picoult writes well and chooses interesting and controversial issues to work through and I also appreciate the fact that she kept the ending slightly open to interpretation so readers can draw their own conclusions.I have no hesitation recommending this as a nice and easy read however, for me, it was not completely flawless.As the majority of the story focuses on Mariah and her struggle to keep her daughter with her, I think an opportunity was missed to flesh out Faith’s character and not just use her as the catalyst to create controversy and momentum.
This one questions whether God is real or not, it dicusses different faiths and non-faiths, it talks about supposed miracles and believing in them or not, but most importantly it discusses the power of love.
While the majority of this book questions faiths, and what's happening to the little girl, Faith, I think that this story, instead of being about believing in Faith, is really about Mariah, her mother.
Above being about Faith and her "miracles." I think that this story is about Mariah's strength, her becoming the mother she's always wanted to be and her willingness to do all that she can to be able to hold onto the ones she loves the most.
Compared to her other ones, so and so.
7,5 de 10*Em “Uma Questão de Fé”, Jodi Picoult aborda um tema bastante controverso, uma criança que supostamente faz milagres com todo o circo mediático à volta da situação.Gostei muito desta leitura, mas terminado o livro fiquei com a sensação de ter as minhas expectativas defraudadas, porque não obtive as respostas que pretendia. O livro está bem escrito (como é habitual nesta autora) e as personagens estão muito bem construídas, mas parece-me que Jodi acabou por fugir à questão principal. Eu, pelo menos, esperava um final mais concreto e diferente do que foi. Comentário completo em:http://abibliotecadajoao.blogspot.pt/...
Não gostei da maneira como a historia evoluiu e detestei o final, fiquei com a sensação que não me deu quase respostas nenhumas e que a autora acabou por se perder na historia.Uma desilusão visto esta ser uma das minhas autoras favoritas.
It is watching her twirl in a tutu and having one's mind leap over the years to wonder how it will be to dance at her wedding.It is maintaining the illusion of having the upper hand, although you've been powerless since the first moment she smiled at you from the rook's nest of your cradled arm.""Uxorious: Excessively fond of one's wife.""This is the codicil of motherhood: like it or not, you acquire a sixth sense when it comes to your children - viscerally feeling their joy, their frustration, and the sharp blow to the heart when someone causes them pain.""My mother...
This book had a bit of a slow start, but I was hooked by the ending...
As Mariah finds herself fighting to keep her daughter, she has to push past her own insecurities and stand up for herself and her competence as a parent.Keeping Faith explores a family plagued by the media, the medical profession, and organised religion in a world where everyone has an opinion but no one knows the truth.
At her controversial and compelling best, Jodi Picoult explores the moment when boundaries break down, and when the only step left to take is to take a leap of faith."
I already feel so bad because I really don't like saying mean things about novels which someone obviously spent a lot of time working on, but in all honesty I don't have too many nice things to say.I loved The Storyteller by Jodi Picoult and so I thought I'd love this story as well, but it wasn't the case at all.
Ian is an a**hole in the beginning, and as soon as he starts questioning his atheist beliefs, what a miracle, he suddenly turns into a likeable guy on the heroic good side.I know it's a topic that's really controversial and probably very hard to write about without offending anybody.
This novel is more about the ideas and questions than about characters or plot.
The characters are unoriginal, and if you like a neat linear plot that resolves everything at the end, this book will disappoint you there, too.However, the strength of the novel -- and a strength much more important than any weaknesses -- is the authenticity with which questions about 'faith' and God are approached.
Second, the novel did not discuss the problem of evil, or how and why a good, loving, all-powerful God allows suffering.
I've only read one other Picoult book but I've already figured out that what they're not just stories.
Picoult likes to leave the door open just a bit, so the endings tend to be a bit ambiguous.
In that light, the story was a success for me, but I'm not sure I really liked it because I'm not completely sure if I interpreted the ending the way the author intended it.
If it's the latter, I kinda think the book should have been more ambiguous all the way through so I didn't feel so jarred by the ending.
Very interesting & thought provoking Jodi picoult never ceases to grasp my complete attention with her writing and this book was no exception.
She writes with such passion and knowledge about her subjects you can't help but praise her for all the research she has done even if you don't agree with the subject matter.Keeping faith will evoke many feelings some of which are anger, passion, love, respect, frustration, and pure joy.
I am not even a mother to a human child and I thoroughly enjoyed his book.
I would recommend Keeping Faith to anyone who has children, enjoys religious books, or just enjoys Jodi picoult in general.
Kinda typical J.P. novel...lawyers trial at the end, etc. It wasn't bad and I like to read her books every now and then as a "break" more serious literature. Her books are an easy and fast read and her characters are interesting and (generally) likable. This book had a unique twist in that the 7 year old child supposedly "sees God" and performs "miracles" - good topic, made for some interesting reading about how crazy religion really can be and how it divides people. I liked how the Rabbi and the Priest kind of end of as buddies...LOL
It was okay. I thought the characters in My Sister's Keeper were better written, but this book is older than that one. The relationship between Ian and Mariah was kind of annoying. The portrayal of autism is probably very offensive.
This book just took me aloot of time !! it is totally not what i expected " not in a good way " , over dramatic !!!, but i don't want to hide the fact that it tickled the back of my brain in several beautiful points !!
could not get into - one of main characters was so depressed I stopped reading it
I feared for Mariah and Faith. I teared up from worry, the pain, the not knowing what would come next. I was not expecting that ending and I was seeing the worst case scenario at every turn of the page.I am not a religiously educated person nor am I a non believer of God, Jesus, The Virgin Mary. Jodi Picoult did something with this book. She really did her research on every aspect and made the reader feel like they were going to gain something in keeping Faith.
To the contrary, I thought it was a good book (not great, but good), just a little too slow for me.
I've only read one other Jodi Picoult book (My Sisters' Keeper), but I also thought that story had a cop out in it too - which was the ending.
Those questions, while it made for a nice story, never would have played out in a real trial.
Mariah's attorney would have objected continuously and the Judge never would have allowed that line of questioning to continue.
In the end, I will never re-read this book.
Keeping Faith is about broken marriage.
In this book, it's like one of those book that gives you a slap in the face; realizing that when it comes to broken marriage, we should never dwell on it, but we should always move forward.
"Keeping Faith," however is a good title for the book.
This book makes me wonder through the impossibilities in life; especially bringing me closer to God. For me, as of now, reading this book gives me the good kind of goosebumps.
March 10, 2013Keeping Faith is definitely one of those "life learning" book.
There is so much to recommend this book -- a unique, unexplored topic, great writing, realistic characters.
While I'm willing to suspend disbelief in favor of a great tale, I'm only wililng to go so far, especially if the writer wants me to get lost in the story.
A few examples: The idea that Ian would risk so much to hide his brother is ludicrous, as is the thought that a judge would bar a mother from her critically ill child.
As is the thought that even if she were barred, any mother on this earth would be camped outside the hospital door, or no further than the cafeteria...
While I haven’t read all of her books, I notice similar patterns.
She also likes to switch points of view between other characters (in this book, between Mariah, Ian, Colin, and Millie), and finally includes the child’s point of view in the last chapter (in this case, Faith).
However, what was strange about this one was the lack of a surprise ending.
I felt a little cheated when I got to the end and was suppose to believe that Faith really was experiencing something.
If I learned something about writing from this book, it’s that you have to be faithful to your readers.
I enjoyed this novel as much as any other Jodi Picoult novel, the only thing I didn’t like so much was how the book focused a little bit too much on religion and little bit too less on Faith.
Otherwise, this was another great novel by Jodi Picoult, it included a lot of interesting plots and twists, great characters, and a storyline that had me hooked until the end.
