https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168571.Shadow_Prey
Lucas Davenport is assigned to lead the investigation, but he's hampered by the fact that he has few contacts in the Indian community.The killings are being orchestrated by two elderly Indian men known as the Crows, who have developed a plan to settle some long-standing scores, particularly with a high-level government official whom they are attempting to lure into their trap.
(Both of the Crows were sleeping with his mother when Shadow Love was conceived and so they both act as his father.) But Shadow Love has an agenda of his own and even the Crows may not be able to deal with him.This is a high-energy novel with a lot of great scenes as well as the particular brand of humor that would come to mark this series.
Two aging radical Sioux named Sam and Aaron Crow have planned a murderous terror campaign in which they’ve sent their followers to several locations across the country to kill various government officials and other people they consider enemies of Native Americans.
When throats start getting cut from Minnesota to New York, Lucas Davenport and the other Minneapolis cops find themselves in the middle of a national crisis.While John Sandford greatly expanded the scale from the first book to the second, he doesn’t skimp on adding new dimensions to his main character.
Not quite as good as book one but still a great read.
There were an awful lot of dead bodies, some excellent police work and a great story.Problematically the author gives us a main character who is at once charming and talented and morally bereft.
Actually I coped with his attitude to women which is basically self serving but did not like some of his policing methods which included planting drugs on a youth in order to blackmail information from the mother.
Not worthy of you Lucas!Nevertheless this is an exciting, fast paced and intelligent police procedural.
The story is interesting and the characters well defined.
I enjoyed it and look forward to moving on to book three.
This second book reads like a primer for how to have an affair.
Our hero, Lucas Davenport, feels a little bad about his behavior, but as he keeps telling us over and over again, "I just love women." Mind you, that's okay, because his idea of women come in all shapes and sizes and even though he moves back and forth from one to another, he just LOVES them.Oh, oh, and it's okay because the married woman in this case finds her faithful husband boring.
Davenport says, "just don't tell him for the first five minutes and then you'll be able to get over it." Something like that.
Three stars is quite optimistic, but there. I find JS's books mediocre so far, not sure whether I will go on reading the series.
The main character is still a massive ass and that is what makes this series stand out for me; where the drunk/loner cop routine has been done to death it’s not often I read about a cop who is sober, a game creator, rich and openly a dick and doesn’t apologise for it.This book concentrates around the Native American (or whatever the PC term is, forgive me I’m not au faux with the culture) tribes who are wrongly treated so take matters into their own hands by slaying a few people of varying importance.
Frankly, I wish that book had made it into the final cut.Told in the third person we once again get to read how Lucas and his band of merry men go about trying to track down these killers.
I wish that I could arouse some sympathy for these characters (which I think that Sandford wanted us to) but I don't agree with murdering innocent people to get to your own ends of justice.
However, this book takes place in 1990 and every time we have a scene with Lucas talking about gaming or working on one I just kind of roll my eyes.
If this was Sandford's intention, it has misfired a bit.On the negative (4-star), the pacing does lag for short periods in the second half of the book, but to compensate (5-star) the motives and character development of the villains is a great surprise.There is some poetry in the book; the first time I have encountered Sandford opening his heart to express life so beautifully -She’s old.
He remembered her from the early fifties, the Ojibway bohemian student of French existentialists, her dark hair pulled back in a bun, her fresh heart-shaped face without makeup, her books in a green cloth sack carried over her shoulder.
"People die all the time. Now some folks are dying who were hurting the Indian people. That's too bad for them and it's a crime, but I can't get too upset about it." We're right on the borderline between four and five stars here, and I'm holding back only because I have it on good authority that the series gets even better later.Shadow Prey takes place roughly a year after Rules of Prey. Lucas Davenport has a new infant daughter and an affectionate but tenuous relationship with Jennifer, the gi
I said in my review of Rules of Prey that I liked that Sandford doesn't go out of his way to get you to approve of Lucas, and that streak continues here as Lucas, among other things, cheats on Jennifer and effectively frames a teenager for possession with intent to distribute to leverage him for information.The wild card in the book is Shadow Love, the Crows' son (they were both sleeping with his mother at the same time and so he considers them his fathers).
The Crows are sympathetic and complex--however extreme their actions are, they're coming from a place of principle, while Shadow Love is driven much more by rage.
The second book in the Lucas Davenport series is a little bit of a letdown from the first book, RULES OF PREY.
This is not to say it isn't a good book, because it is.
Unfortunately, its just not as good as RULES OF PREY was.
Most of the blame falls on the romantic subplot, which just isn't very compelling, and relies heavily on Davenport's apparent ability to have every woman in the world fall in love with him.
Again, though, there were times I had to suspend just a little too much of my disbelief.The action is quite good, and there are some genuinely suspenseful moments.
I started reading this series as a buddy read and from all of the great reviews, I thought it was right up my alley, however, I just can't connect with the main character. He is an intelegent, womanizing, adulterous cad. The story was okay but tedious and I found myself loosing attention. The ending was exciting but not satisfying. I've been told Lucas becomes more interesting and not so demeaning in the next books, I'm just not sure I'm going to continue.
I've finished book 2 of the Prey series...and I'm so tickled that there are a LOT more for me to read. I'm learning that these books are not for the faint of heart, sometimes the violence and language are pretty rough, but written in such a way that I'm riveted to the page (or I guess I should say to the screen of my Kindle!) I'm immediately headed into Book 3 - Eyes of Prey.
As with anything by Sanford, great characters, great plot, lots of action. Always a great read!
4 stars.🇺🇸🤙
Wasn't a huge fan of Shadow Prey (book 2), especially when you compare it to the first book in the series, Rules of Prey.
Davenport as well as a team from NYC are on the case to catch whoever is behind these murders.
First of all, I wasn't too into the murders.
The only mystery was how was Davenport going to figure it out.
Then there is a whole new annoyance with Davenport's personal life.
Davenport is a new father and is kind of living with the baby's mother, and they seem to be making it work.
Overall, I wasn't a huge fan of the novel.
This second book was as good as the first.
New to writing a series, he wrote, submitted, & wound up completely rewriting it.
Similar pacing, expansion of characters, & a great ending.I was rooting for the bad guys half the time.
As for some of the 'good' guys...
Let's just say I was satisfied with how it all worked out.Davenport is a bad ass, but we get to see that he's no superman.
Made him believable.I'll certainly continue this series.
They definitely need to be read in order.
I'm glad I put off reading them until I could do so.
Being a cop is all about enforcing the laws that govern our cities, states and country.
Being a seasoned investigator is about taking a little information and compiling it together to see the big picture.
Lucas Davenport does that and some.
He's not a bad cop but he does skirt along the edges of becoming one.
You must understand that Lucas does not play when it comes to getting to the bottom of any situation.
This time he's trying to figure out why a particular group of guys are being murdered by Indians.
It goes beyond providing information from all parties involved.
It may have improved after the first 90 pages, but I couldn't wade through it.I read the first of the Prey novels sometime back and remember liking the lead character...Here are some reasons why I did not like what I was reading:1) With very few exceptions I don't like novels which switch back and forth between villain and good guy.
I want to discover the motivation along with the detective.3) The character in this series is a part-time game designer and getting rich.
I'm sorry, but game designers don't get rich...
The debut book in John Sandford's Lucas Davenport series, Rules of Prey, was expertly done but still really just a high grade Thomas Harris knockoff with all the expected trimmings: ingeniously loopy serial killer, obsessed and messed-up detective hero, twisty plot full of investigative arcana.
In his new introduction for this paperback edition, Sandford notes that it is probably the least popular entry in his "Prey" series, but I think it's second only to Secret Prey in terms of plotting and interesting psychology.
I was disappointed with this one because I loved the first one.
In this one, the author gives more description of the main character, Davenport, which totally conflicted with the image I had built of him.
Plus Davenport wasn't as suave in this novel-- he cursed way more than I remembered from the first one and he spent half the book trying to get another character into bed (there was much philandering in the first one but it was more like women just fell in with him-- not that he connived it).
I had to DNF this book because I just could not get into.
There are several reasons why.
He has an attitude of nonchalance it seems, like his sh*t don't stink, he is a player, and he is as much of a criminal as the criminals are.Also I don't enjoy that there really is not any mystery to the book.
I just don't get that in this series so far.
I will not be rating this book since I did not finish it.
It is just not a series for me.
I will not b going any further with this series.
The 2nd installment in the Lucas Davenport storyline. The Minneapolis detective is pulled into the hunt for someone who is killing people who have no connection to one another. The only link is that it seems to be Native Americans doing the killing.Lucas is balancing his girlfriend, their new baby and his net of informers. Soon, a female detective arrives from New York City, and his already chaotic life accelerates towards the deep end.These stories are an andrenaline ride, mixed with humor and cringe-worthy male chauvinism.
I have read several of the Davenport books and am now going back and reading the ones I have missed in order. It is amazing to think how Lucas grows in the series. For those who are upset with his behaviors in this book, for cripes sake it's a book of fiction. People have affairs, people kill people...the Indians were savagely abused by the whites... I live in Minnesota and it is a very sad part of our history. This was a great read. Wonder if Leo shows up later?
2 Indian cousins, who cal themselves The Crows, along with their assosiates goes out to kill famous and politically important persons, to take revenge on the cruelty done to their community and at the sametime, their own blood Shadow Love has something else in mind.
Crows do a good job while Shadow Love is there just because of the Title.Description - 5/5 : The investigations, the survillences, the hold up, the chase are so well done, that I felt I was at the scene.Violence - 4/5 : Guns and More guns.Romance - 3/5 : Not a romance to cherish.Philosophy - 0/5 : Nothing said.Art - 0/5 : History - 2/5 : Some background about the Indian and the cruelty done to them.
Shadow Prey is the 2nd book in the Prey (Lucas Davenport) mystery / cop series by John Sandford.
In this story, a group of native Americans begin a guerrilla war against various powerful people, aiming for a certain man who has harmed them in the past.The murders take place across America and bring a female NY police officer to Minneapolis as part of the investigation.
It's an easy, fast-paced read and an entertaining story.
I will continue reading the series.
It's one of those series that you can enjoy when you want a break from heavier reading.
My taste in thrillers and detectives stories has clearly evolved.
This is one of the early Lucas Davenport stories (2nd Prey book), and maybe these books haven’t aged so well for a reader like me?
I want Lucas to grow some sense in that area.
He can’t seem to commit as a mature man when it comes to relationships with women.
He would marry the reporter (Jennifer Carey) because he has a daughter with her, but he's not capable of love & commitment.
Apparently Lucas will grow more mellow in later years and later books.
The Lucas Davenport novels have been really entertaining thus far.
They've got a 90s action drama movie feel, including the not so subtle view on what's sexually appropriate or not.
I can't wait to see how Davenport and Sandford mature with the times, especially being this novel was originally written as social commentary.
The first entry was considerably better than this one, the second, but even still I couldn't put it down.
I really like Lily's character and the deepening of recurring characters from Rules of Prey.
The Native American backdrop was neat, and as aforementioned Sandford's first manuscript was a social commentary on Native treatment...
...in which the protagonist (Davenport) becomes quite unlikable, kills a lot of people, brushes near death twice, has an affair with a married woman, and solves a series of murders that end up only related to the ultimate final crime by the thinnest of threads. This book gets a rating of "pure stupid"!
There are no words for how angry this makes me.It’s almost a tour of Lucas’ life as he escorts Lily around Minneapolis as they work to dig up hints, clues, ideas on who’s killing all these people.
He and fellow street cop Carl Reed set the scene with their rape of a young Indian girl.
To their own people they are the Crows, named for their mothers’ father and they have been inseparable for the past 60 years after a harrowing winter they spent with their families.
His wife, Louise, caves when Lucas sets their son up.Some of Lucas’ network includes:William Dooley is a barber.
Though not as good as the first novel in the series, Rule of Prey, Shadow Prey is still a solid mystery thriller.Lucas Davenport is still a lieutenant in the Minneapolis Police Department.
He is a loving father, but fatherhood appears to not have changed him much.In this novel, Lucas is tasked with finding and stopping a group of American Indians (apparently, this book was written before the term Native Americans became common) who are targeting state and government officials with a history of mistreating the Indian population.You don't see this kind of mystery a lot.
