https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153529.Madame_de_Pompadour
There's a way some of these women have of staring you down with utter unconsciousness that anyone could sensibly feel anything different that makes you blink even when you know there's something wrong with that reasoning.I think part of it really does have to do with the fact that so many of them descended from the aristocracy.
As well as her wonderful novels, Nancy Mitford also wrote four, less known, historical biographies- Madame de Pompadour in 1954, Voltaire in Love in 1957, The Sun King in 1966 and Frederick the Great in 1970.
Despite being married with a young daughter, she saw her future as the mistress of the King of France and set about making herself the most influential woman at Court for many years.The new Marquis de Pompadour comes alive in this biography, as Nancy Mitford delights in recreating the splendour of Versailles.
Louis XV & Mme explain the worldly French sexyouall sensibility : after 5-6 years the pash is over (we should all know  that ), and love deepens while outsider sexercises play on. Yes, some of us know, but few have the French toleration & understanding. Nancy Mitford reports with her usual sparkle.I will NOT expand as Amazon doubles prices on books with good GR reviews. I discovered this when I went to buy a gift etc. Amazon also doubles prices on books that get well-reviewed on its site. ~~ (These lines were writ in 2013).
Mitford describes the “laudatory poem” he penned after the victory over the English at Fontenoy in 1745: Richelieu, a great friend of Voltaire’s, got even more praise than he deserved; and the cunning old poet mentioned a lot of other people who might be useful to him.
This poem sold ten thousand copies in ten days, mostly to the army; subsequent editions brought in so many sons and lovers that the thing became a farce.That friend of Voltaire’s, the Duc de Richelieu, is another of the book’s scene-stealers.
I've never posted an image before (other than book covers) so this is likely to be painful. & I don't know why I'm starting with La Pompadour, as her brother apparently said that none of the many portraits of her resembled her. But I have always loved this Boucher painting.Mitford's style is conversational - I felt like I was was back in the 18th century having a good old gossip over a cup of tea . No doubt Nancy & I would have been whispering behind our hand painted fans. Mitford's wri
There is no explanation of this & no cite either.So you just have to go with the flow!Pompadour's rise to the top was remarkable A bourgeiosie with a beautiful but rather common mother (who had made a very fortunate alliance after the banishment of her husband)she was educated at home, but as Mitford writes, " a more accomplished woman has seldom lived."After she attracted the attention of Louis XV her taste was given full rein!
& unlike the aristocrats she (or rather Louis!) paid her bills.Mitford theorises that history & her French contemporaries don't always judge her kindly because of her extravagance & because her fondness was more for beautiful small things rather than large monuments that would stand the test of time.
An enjoyable biography of that greatest of all courtisanes, Madame de Pompadour, told in the extremely posh voice of Nancy Mitford.
Nancy Mitford is through her own aristocratic upbringing very apt in commenting on the ways of the French court and courtiers.
I had no idea that Madame de Pompadour had such an influence at the French court that, through her actions, she changed the course of the war with Prussia and England and, consequently, had a great influence in the course of French history.
Especially this last characteristic must have been pretty rare at the French court!
Nancy Mitford was a witty woman and that made this biography pretty pleasant to read.
"Madame de Pompadour excelled at an art which the majority of human beings thoroughly despise because it is unprofitable and ephemeral: the art of living."Decadent 18th century French life told in the crisp tones of the 1950's.
I came into this knowing nearly nothing about Madame de Pompadour and I left knowing at least an outline of the events of her life.
I think Mitford tends to idealise her.
It reminds me of a piece of Jane Austen's juvenilia about Mary, Queen of Scots.
Reading Nancy Mitford's biography of "Reinette" Poisson, whom history knows as Madame de Pompadour, is like sidling up to a knowledgeable guest at a vast party full of strangers and asking her what's what.
Mitford is great fun to read, breezy, well-informed and opinionated.
She feels her subject has been unfairly maligned by history and wants to redress that, in the process giving us all a wonderful look at a most fascinating woman.
I've probably said it before, but if they're well written they're an instant 4 star read for me.
This one I rated 3 stars.
Sometimes Nancy's writing got a little confused, jumping around in chronological order and made a lot of assumptions about our knowledge of French life and courts, as well as being able to read passages in French.
There was a lot to like though.
Nancy has an intimate way of writing, that really draws you into the story.
In fact, I wonder now why I didn't rate it 4 stars.
From her beginnings as Jeanne Antoinette Poisson to the cultural curator of the French court, Nancy Mitford chronicles the rise and death of the most famous French king's mistress.
Mitford's narrative consists of Mme du Pompadour going up against an engrained nobility (which in retrospect was not far from failing miserably) as a more bourgeois but also more authentically French personality.
Once again, Mitford has captured the spirit of a time as well as accomplishing an incredibly readable biography of a famous figure from pre-Revolutionary France.
I've wanted to read a biography about Madame du Pompadour ever since I saw her on a Doctor Who episode.
When I found out that one of the Mitford sisters had written about the King's mistress, I couldn't wait to read the book.
The book was centered around Madame du Pompadour but also included the major players like King Louis and his wife.
I don't know the history well enough to know how well researched the book was but I tore through this book in two days even though I normally plod through biographies and loved almost every word.
Her real name was Jeanne Antoinette Poisson, Marquise de Pompadour: she was the official mistress of the French King Louis XV.It was quite interesting to learn that she a major patron of architecture - École Militaire and such decorative arts as porcelain - Manufacture national de Sèvres.
She was the direct responsible by the purchase of the well-known Élysée Palace.She was a patron of the philosophies of the Enlightenment , including Voltaire and Montesquieu.The author wrote a magnificent portrait of this important historical character who played a positive influence under the Louis XV realty.
Page 232:Voltaire wrote: "I am very sad at the death of Madame de Pompadour.
Mitford's biography pales in comparison to a book like Claude Manceron's Twilight of the Old Order, 1774-1778.
Now, granted, Manceron's book (the first in a tetralogy) is much vaster and covers a wider range of personages and geography.
Both books have been called novelistic.
And interestingly, neither writer had much formal schooling; Mitford was tutored only in French and riding, and Manceron's education ended at age 11 when he became crippled by polio.
I know which author I'd like to read more of.It was interesting to learn the origin of mayonnaise.
The important thing is that Nancy is interested and I enjoy reading her books.The court was snobbish, with courtiers vying for position and influence.
It is all about having great fun and ignoring the consequences.Even Nancy, not the most enthusiastic proponent of Liberté, Égalité, Fraternité, admits that shutting the King, court and government away in the Palace of Versailles cut them off from the majority of the population and that this was not a good thing.
Prior to reading this book, all I knew about Madame de Pompadour came from an episode of "Doctor Who" (Which is to say, given the episode involved a space ship that opened into her fireplace, I knew next to nothing.) So I can't really comment on the historical accuracy of Nancy Mitford's "Madame de Pompadour."I can say that I was delighted by the coffee-table style of the book and Mitford's ability to pick out little, insightful details (a hallmark of her fiction as well.) The book has an almost gossipy style that is well-suited for a mistress of a king.I've been absolutely spoiled by Alison Weir's wonderful books on the Tudors, where she backs up each and every detail and supposition with evidence from source material.
I love biographies that not only give a good historical overview (any history book can do that), but also somehow communicate the essence of the personalities involved. This biography is beautifully and engagingly written, but Mitford gives more: there a is a charming, humorous quality that I find completely engaging. She has a wonderful facility of language, of vocabulary, that is so intelligent if at times a bit flippant. I would (and have) read anything Nancy Mitford writes simply for her voice alone, and then, of course, Madame De Pompadour is such an interesting subject. I highly recommend this book.
I didn't think that Nancy Mitford was a very organized or clear biographer. She didn't tell the story chronologically and assumes the reader knows all the titles of royalty and courts. She often would quote French poetry or phrases without translation. Even without these flaws, I don't think that she was a particularly skilled writer. She seemed to let her own fascination with Madame de Pompadour skew her writing.
I'm torn because in parts I was really enjoying this book, but in the end, about 70% of the way through, I had to abandon it. Probably due to my ignorance and also my habit of skim reading, I found the lack of background confusing. Mitford assumes the reader knows more about 18th century French politics than I do.
Just read Kelly's review; she says it waaay better then I can but agree with all of it. In short; a good read if You like Nancy Mitford.
Based on what I could glean from cobbling the disparate timelines in this book together, Madame de Pompadour was a fascinating woman with remarkable influence on a unique culture inside a historical period that I'm personally super into.
de Pompadour's life in chronological order, it's incredibly difficult to understand the context of events and so much gets lost in between countless pages of gossip about various unimportant courtiers.
I've had a love for 18th century French culture/politics for a long time and I was really looking forward to this book.
To her, as to most women, politics were a question of personalities; if she liked somebody he could do no wrong — a dear friend was sure to make a good general, a man who could write Latin verses, and amuse the King, a good minister.
To be fair, though, Madame de Pompadour apparently described the imperial army led by General Daun as 'the most beautiful, the gayest army possible to be seen', which is all kinds of amazing to imagine, and to imagine writing.)On the other hand:
Catty, chatty, naughty (for the times) account of Louis XV's influential mistress.
I picked this up because 1] its a NYRB book and 2] Nancy Mitford was Oswald Mosely's sister-in-law and Walter Mosely's step-aunt.
Also, this book provided a nice intellectual counterpoint to Duff Cooper's Talleyrand insofar as it is quite explicit in describing the strange unreality which permeated so much of the royal politics of the Ancien Regime, and how that sense of insular gamesmanship survived the Revolution,the Napoleonic era, and found its apotheosis in the post Congress-of-Vienna European political order.
One marvels at just how vast the chasm truly was between the politically powerful and the undifferentiated mass of the European "citizenry".

How to keep a King entertained. The pompadour was one hell of a woman. Woman who was truly in love and fought for the love of her king & country. She had amazing taste especially for Champagne! The history of her life with King Louie XV sets France up for its devastating revolution. She was BF's with Voltaire bet neither of them could have imagined the horrors their shared enlightened philosophy would build up too!
I think that it is of questionable use as history, but it does provide a fascinating glimpse of Mitford's mind (and she would not like people saying that). Louis XV is clearly the Colonel, and Pompadour is You-know-who. My favorite review of this when it came out stated that "Miss Mitford must try harder not to refer to Louis XV as "perfect HEAVEN!" every time she mentions his name." A very good read.
Strangely absorbing. I would start a chapter feeling slightly nonplussed and then suddenly an hour had passed. I think I would have enjoyed this more if I had a more solid knowledge of French history, but her ability to develop a compelling narrative is, nevertheless, outstanding.
Not only a historical biography of a woman in a very different world than ours, but an interesting study of France in that time.
Any one who has read Nancy Mitford's novels The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate knows what a delightful, witty writer she was.
Her Madame de Pompadour is equally fun.
It may not be "serious" history--some professional historians, such as A.J.P. Taylor were cruel in their reviews--but unlike a dull monograph, it offers not only the story of Jeanne-Antoinette Poisson (later to become the marquise and then duchesse de Pompadour) but a real glimpse into what life was like at Versailles under the Ancien Regime.
When I first started it I really liked it and thought - I wish all the history books I read at university were this interesting.
So I stopped reading and started another book.
When I came back to this I enjoyed it for awhile - then felt bogged down again but just forged through to the finish.
Most of the illustrations were interesting - though towards the end I wondered if they weren't starting to be used as padding as well.
But since I enjoyed a good chunk of this informative book - I decided to rate it "liked it".
I never knew much about la Pompadour, so I decided to rectify that situation. This book is much like Mitford's later The Sun King, being a chatty, gossipy, opinionated dance through the court of Louis XV, mostly but not always through the filter of la Pompadour's experiences. Mitford's style is plush, she has a keen eye for a telling vignette, though less care about strict chronology or, heaven forfend, dates! Still, this is highly readable, entertaining, and informative, and I'm glad I read it.
