https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9938498-in-the-garden-of-beasts
(And as one of his critics of the time pointed out, an ambassador who refuses to meet with the government of the country he’s in really isn’t accomplishing much.) Dodd irritated others in America’s diplomatic service with his constant criticism of their spending and seemed more concerned with cutting costs at the embassy rather than dealing with the Germans.The odd thing about this book is that Larson all but ignores Dodd’s wife and son in favor of giving a detailed portrayal of his daughter, Martha.
300 pages of "But unknown to Dodd, all the rich dudes in the US hated him and were saying things like blah blah blah" and "Martha was having yet another affair" and "Everyone in Berlin seemed happy but THE ATMOSPHERE WAS TENSE" that all led up to a rather anticlimactic Night of the Long Knives.
Martha was pretty insufferable and ultimately I had no idea why so much time was spent on her affairs.
I would've vastly preferred a book about characters named only briefly, like Bella Fromm or Sigrid Schulz.
It held my interest better than any novel, and it filled in all the gaps in my understanding of how Hitler was able to gain so much power so quickly, with so little opposition.
Dodd and his daughter Martha to reconstruct "a year in the life" for Americans in Berlin from 1933 to 1934.William Dodd had no idea what he was saying yes to when President Roosevelt offered him the position of ambassador to Germany in 1933.
William Dodd remained in his position as ambassador for three more years, during which American leaders continued to refuse his requests for intervention in Nazi Germany.This book has already earned a permanent place in my home library.
Larson chose to deliver a one year slice of the darkening life of Nazi Germany.
News was the connections the ambassador’s daughter made with questionable characters.Ambassador Dodd’s daughter, Martha, appears to have had a very lively social life.
But even though there were interesting elements within the book, even though I read through it all relatively quickly, I still did not feel, by the time I had finished, that it was all that much.
Larson is interviewed in this outstanding NPR piece: William Dodd: The U.S. Ambassador In Hitler's Berlin - May 2, 2011
Ambassador Dodd, perhaps one of the most unusual ambassadors to a major country we have ever had, was initially reluctant to criticize the Hitler regime, mainly due to his nostalgic memories of the time he spent studying in Germany decades before.
President Roosevelt listened, seemed to agree, but did nothing.It seems clear from this personal view of the early Nazi years that pressure from abroad, especially from the U.S., might have resulted in an early exit for Hitler.
Why did Roosevelt fail to act?One theme that recurs several times in Larson's book is concern over Germany's re-payment of its debt to U.S. interests.
Dodd and his family's idea of Germans must necessarily change as well.
Martha!This is just as much a story of political intrigue as it is an innocence lost/coming of age tale.
Martha Dodd, the ambassador's fetching daughter is a socialite of the first order.
I say "somewhat" in reference to the Dodd's ambassadorial ineptitude, while giving a nod to Martha's post WWII involvement in the cold war spy game.
What Larson does with this wealth of information is not outstandingly spectacular, but it is an admirable piece of work and an interesting viewpoint from which to approach the coming of World War II.
Αυτό από μόνο του είναι πολύ ενδιαφέρον, μια και συνήθως διαβάζουμε για τα γεγονότα του πολέμου (και για την Ελλάδα πιο συγκεκριμένα της Κατοχής), αλλά όχι για αυτά που προηγήθηκαν της εδραίωσης του καθεστώτος.
Είναι εύκολο εκ των υστέρων και εκ του αποτελέσματος να κρίνουμε το καθεστώς του Χίτλερ, όμως, όπως φαίνεται μέσα από αυτό το εξαιρετικό έργο, τα πράγματα δεν ήταν το ίδιο απλά στη Γερμανία του 1933.
Differing mightily from the “Pretty Good Club” of independently wealthy, aristocratic leaning gentlemen diplomats usually deployed by the state department, Dodd had vowed to operate the Berlin embassy on a strict budget and would live within his means on his government salary of seventeen thousand dollars a year.
Roosevelt hoped that Professor Dodd would be a shining beacon of American common sense and constitutionalism in the fanatical leaning Germany that was embracing a young Hitler.
This story covers the Dodd family and their lives amongst the beast machine of Hitler's Nazi Germany.
The rest is history the persecutions of Jews and all non Arian is well documented the author is trying to give us a pigeon hole on how it was for this family amongst the turmoil and documents the ambassadors interactions with Hitler's Germany.
In a letter to Roosevelt, he stated:“A clique of U.S. industrialists is hell-bent to bring a fascist state to supplant our democratic government and is working closely with the fascist regime in Germany and Italy.
I loved Erik Larson's 'The Devil in the White City', I found the subject matter fascinating and the writing fabulous.
But the people in this story never came to life for me, with the exception of Martha Dodd who I didn't care for.I read an advance reader's copy so perhaps the final product will have some additional editing but what I read wasn't of the same caliber as 'The Devil in the White City', the pacing was relatively slow and there were places where the story was choppy.
Dodd and his daughter Martha get most of Larson's attention in this book (so much attention, in fact, that Dodd's son Bill is almost never mentioned at all, and I have no idea how he kept himself occupied when the family was living in Berlin).
Anti-Semitism was just as rampant in the United States as it was in Germany, and Martha Dodd even admitted in her memoirs that the German government's treatment of Jews didn't bother her or her family very much at the time, because "we didn't really like Jews." For much of book, William Dodd doesn't do very much, and mostly just acts as a witness to current events without influencing them.
It has some interesting parts, like a bit of an inside view of events and people, both German and American officials and citizens.
We see through their eyes how Hitler was able to take more and more power over Germany.
There are parts that are interesting, like several appearances of the Jewish Bella Fromm, a popular society journalist of the day.
Every time the story moved from Ambassador Dodd's work and events in Germany to Martha's sex life, Larson switched genres - from History to Romance; and I can't say that he writes the latter particularly well.There isn't much in this book that is new.
He uses the broader context of historical events and personalizes it, so that, in effect, the parts become greater than the sum of the whole.In his latest book, In the Garden of Beasts, Larson takes on the rise to power of Adolph Hitler and the Nazis in Germany, as seen through the prism of William E Dodd, U.S. Ambassador to Germany from July of 1933 to December of 1937, and his family.
As a 30 year old I can look back at the story of the Nazis and say, "What the?!!
The story is of William Dodd, a mild-mannered college professor who is appointed ambassador to Germany after basically everyone else refuses the job.
Information and content: 5 starsCompelling-ness: 3 starsAmid he chaos of my life (packing, cleaning, and listing a home - renting said home, moving, accepting a job offer, moving again across the country, etc.) this was not a quick read.
Εξελίσσεται από την άνοιξη του 1933, χρόνια που ο Χίτλερ κατέλαβε τον θώκο του καγκελάριου μέχρι το τέλος του 1937, όπου αντικατασταθηκε.O Dodd μετά τη θητεία, κατά την οποία επέλεξε συνειδητά να κρατήσει αποστάσεις από το καθεστώς, έγινε διαπρυσιος κήρυκας κατά της ναζιστικής Γερμανίας και έχει μείνει στην ιστορία ως η Κασσάνδρα της αμερικανικής διπλωματίας.Μέσα από το αφήγημα ξετυλίγεται με αρκετή ακρίβεια και έντονο ενδιαφέρον όλη η ζωή του Βερολίνου το 1933-1934 και η μετατροπή μιας χώρας και ενός λαού από φυσιολογικη σε τερατώδη, χωρίς κανείς να μπορεί να κάνει κάτι.
Through the eyes of the American ambassador to Berlin and his adult daughter, Mr. Larson shows in stunning fashion how the world was determined to ignore the warning signs, and thus the true intent of Hitler and the Nazi regime in Germany, until it was too late.
Even the main characters in the book, Ambassador Dodd and his daughter Martha, were mesmerized by Hitler and the leading characters of the Third Reich in the beginning.
I learned so much about Hitler and the forces that allowed him to get entrenched by reading this book.
Quite possibly the most boring book written on one of the most riveting times in recent history.
I still don't know, even though it was explicitly asked several times in the book.
Not that there is a definitive answer, but I would have liked to hear his take on it after doing so much research on the subject.
Larson has this way of writing in super small details that I have a hard time believing came from journal entries or letters.
It's like he was there, but he wasn't, and it feels forced.
The amount of cautionary stories with the backdrop of Nazi Germany or WWII in general is astronomical.
We all know we don't want something like this to happen again.
And yet, to read something like this and realize that all the warning signs were clearly present and just as clearly ignored is what infuriates me.
People saw what was happening and brushed it off, assuming that somehow things would stop before they went too far.
Did they have too much faith in the system?
And what exactly is the system?
The amount of willful ignorance is what continues to chill me.
It makes for a readable story as well as a discussion of international attitudes (and blindspots) towards the Nazis as they consolidated power.
Martha's memoir seems to have been particularly revealing in regard to her initial fascination with the Nazis and subsequent disillusionment.
Strangely, though, the book mainly covers the years 1933 and 1934; it makes quick work of the following couple of years even though Dodd served until 1937.I do think this work was limited by the author's inability to read German.
Dodd was uniquely placed in the ambassador position, being a history professor and a loyal believer in the principles of US government, as well having his own strong personal principles regarding wealth, economy and efficiency.
Instead of taking heed of any of Dodd's many missives regarding the rapidly changing and dangerous environment in Germany, they focused on what they thought of as his embarrassing lack of protocol, made fun of and published many of his heartfelt concerns and actively sought to remove him from that position.
Larson parses every faction of the Nazi Party; every evil personality, every evil viewpoint, every indefensible position, in clear, breathlessly thrilling prose.Roosevelt selects a new Ambassador to Germany, William E.
Dodd, a University of Chicago history professor, gets the nod because he happens to know someone in Roosevelt's intimate circle, his main qualification being that he spent some time in Germany when he was a student.
Still, they understand something Dodd fails to see; the Nazis respect shows of power and might, not dignified diplomacy.
At the heart of the story is Martha Dodd, the ambassador's daughter, a beautiful and free-spirited young woman.
They could never answer the question: "How could such civilized people commit such atrocities?" and not just in Germany.
This book comes a little closer to answering the question.
I feel as if the incremental evil perpetrated by the Nazis desensitized people and caused them to ignore it.
The infatuation with the Nazis was due to their carefully controlled message and the power of that message (early Martha Dodd).
The book is impeccably researched and well written (with a few hiccups);we see developments in real time rather than ín the rear view mirror.
I will read this book again because I probably missed a lot in the first reading.
I think there are some applicable lessons in this volume that apply to situations that are current.William Dodd was in many ways a sort of square peg in a round hole when he became America's ambassador to Germany in 1933.
His duties as a professor had kept him too busy to actually work on it.This posting would leave the frugal history professor little time to write.
The somewhat slow disillusionment and then dismay and shock at the events around them.The book is also very much about Dodd's daughter Martha.
The man she fell in love with was actually an agent for the NKVD a forerunner of the KGB and Martha was recruited.
This was a very interesting read for me that read almost like fiction. I learned new things about Hitler and Germany. The book takes place just as Hitler is gaining power. The author uses excerpts from people's diaries which gave me a real feel for the time as opposed to just reciting facts. A significant part of the book is about Dodd's daughter Martha. She had many "friends", Nazi's Russians, artists, journalists, etc. To quote a GR friend "she was a trip"! Recommended!
It’s that good.In his preface, Larson writes, “Once, at the dawn of a very dark time, an American father and daughter found themselves suddenly transported from their snug home in Chicago to the heart of Hitler’s Berlin.
And astoundingly, he tries –without success – to refocus the State Department’s priorities; their “main concern about Germany remained its huge debt to America’s creditors.”Through the eyes of history, we – the readers – know the eventual outcome of the story, and it’s viscerally painful to see all the junctures where Hitler’s nefarious plans could have been stopped – but weren’t.
Εξαιρετικά ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο που καταπιάνεται με τα πρώτα χρόνια της εξουσίας του Χίτλερ (ο οποίος ας θυμηθούμε ότι ανέβηκε κοινοβουλευτικά στην εξουσία και όχι με πραξικόπημα) και της ανόδου του φασισμού στη χώρα του Γκαίτε και του Μπετόβεν, όπως τονίζεται και προς το τέλος.
Θα έλεγα πως αυτό το βιβλίο ΠΡΕΠΕΙ να διαβαστεί για μια πιο σφαιρική άποψη σχετικά με τα πρώτα χρόνια της ανόδου του φασισμού, αυτά που φαινομενικά δεν προμήνυαν τη φρίκη που θα ακολουθούσε.
Dodd was not President Roosevelt's first choice for his ambassador to Germany in 1933 and many in Washington thought the mild-mannered college history professor was ill-suited for the job.
His family accompanied him to his posting: his wife, Mattie; his son, William Jr (28); and daughter, Martha (24) and they became eyewitnesses of Hitler's rise to power.
Eventually they became eyewitnesses to the murderous power struggle between the Nazis themselves and Dodd could see the handwriting on the wall that there would be war.
Back home in the isolationist political climate of Washington, they weren't terribly interested or concerned with these issues: they just wanted to know when Germany would pay their debts.
dnf
a fascinating story about the American ambassador to Nazi Germany in the 1930s. Hindsight is twenty-twenty, but this book does a good job recapturing a time when everyone was desperate to believe that the Nazis actually wanted peace. The book shows how the ambassador's idealistic young daughter initially bought into Hitler's charisma, but soon realized the truth. A chilling and riveting story, In the Garden of Beasts shows how an entire nation of otherwise reasonable people can be seduced by an evil movement, and kept paralyzed by fear.
Συγκλονιστική η εξιστόρηση της τρελής πορείας του Χίτλερ (κατά τα έτη 1933-1937) σε συνδυασμό με τον στρουθοκαμηλισμό Αμερικανών και Ευρωπαίων, από τη σελίδα 280 όμως και κάτω-πιο πριν είναι άκρως ανιαρή η εξιστόρηση πάμπολλων λεπτομερειών.
