https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100779.Reminiscences_of_a_Stock_Operator

But one of the central points of the book is that fear, greed, hope and ignorance will drive the markets for as long as humans make trading decisions.
And I don't think I've ever read a better explanation of how each of those things can impact trading decisions and price movements.As with many memoirs, the beginning is the most electric, and has the most personal interest.
And the explanation of those mechanics showed me, for the first time, how it might still be possible (though much more sophisticated nowadays).Even more extraordinary, given the feeling of authenticity throughout this book, is that it is a fictionalized account.
The book is a distillation of that experience and those interviews.
If you have the slightest interest in stock markets then you should read this book. Even though it got dry at some parts in the middle of the book, I truly enjoyed it.
Fear, greed, hope and pride are the same today as they were in the early 1900s and these core fundamental human emotions can account for the rise and fall of every Wall Street trader, from the tiny retail players to large hedge fund and private equity fund managers.The book is a non-fictional Wall Street primer about "Lawrence Livingstone", a pseudonym for Jesse Livermore, the legendary lone Wall Street trader whose personal fortune purportedly peaked between 1.1 and 14.0 billion dollars normalized to the value of today's US dollar.
Equity prices rise and fall according to vagaries of human emotions - think fear, hope, greed and pride.
The fact that I remember that way is my way of capitalizing experience."2- "It takes a man a long time to learn all the lessons of all his mistakes.
You begin to learn!"5- "After spending many years m Wall Street and after making and losing millions of dollars I want to tell you this: It never was my thinking that made the big money for me.
It is absolutely wrong to gamble in stocks the way the average man does."10- "The professional concerns himself with doing the right thing rather than with making money, knowing that the profit takes care of itself if the other things are attended to.
Livermore describes many of the tactics that he would use to drive prices, either up or down, and most importantly, how he would use the tape to understand prices.Now that the markets are all fully imersed in the information age, a single speculator would be hard pressed to use the exact tactics that Livermore used 100 years ago, but the overall strategy and how the markets actually operate is surprisingly the same.
One of my favorites. I'm a big time Jesse Livermore fan. For a guy like myself. I didn't come from a shiny university or have bankers as parents. Without those two credentials, breaking into high finance is hard. Livermore worked his way up, started with $0 and earned over $100 Million. His life is full of tragedy and redemption. He is a great American storyteller and turn of the century personality. More people should take the time to get to know the story behind Jesse Livermore.
This book is almost a hundred years old, but it's timeless. It chronicles the life of one of the most legendary stock traders. It reads like a fiction book. One can learn and have fun.
And when you know what not to do in order not to lose money, you begin to learn what to do in order to win.
I mean that after a man makes money in the stock market he very quickly loses the habit of not spending.
But after he loses his money it takes him a long time to lose the habit of spending.""To learn that a man can make foolish plays for no reason whatever was a valuable lesson.
The money a man loses is nothing; he can make it up.
An interesting insight into the work of Jesse Livermore, one of the most prominent stock speculators of the early 20th century.
Given that this book is primarily an account of his numerous failures, contradictions, and his total inability to ever enjoy a vacation with his endlessly acquired, and then destroyed fortunes, the only thing I'm left confused by is why any sane human in their right mind would ever read this book as investment advice, which it seems that a good many confused people have.
Read only for novelty, or as a moral fable against the hazards of stock market gambling.
What i think is he really was an heavy trader who cared more for the game of stock broking principles rather than the money part.A detailed book of intrinsic thoughts and feelings as an stock broker experiences during the trade off from his early trading days itself and how it actually affected his trading actions.good read
Absolute MUST-READ and timeless classics!(If I had to recommend one book to read on the topic of trading in financial markets, I would recommend this one!)
Fantastic book. Only if I could give it more than 5 stars. Add to the list of books to be reread many times over.
Must read for everyone investor
This is the best book I have read so far on stock trading. Each page of this book should put in a frame and hang on your wall. A must read.
Reminiscences of a Stock Operator is a rollercoaster ride on pre SEC stock markets.
If the market traded a quarter of a million shares, it was a huge day.
As a teenager, he went to bucket shops and put down margin – a dollar a share on hundred dollar stocks - and waited there for a gain of a dollar before selling.
The bucket shop never actually executed the trade.
When he tried it at a real New York brokerage, he lost.
Once, when someone cornered a commodity, he broke it by shorting a related commodity, causing the whole edifice to crumble and allowing him to get out, at his own price.
Interesting read. Reads like a first person novel.
Livermore started trading at the age of 15 and became known as the "Boy Plunger" because he was famous for taking huge short positions in the market, hoping to profit from price declines.
Livermore was an active trader on the NY Stock Exchange for 40 years, and during that time he made and lost 4 different multi-million dollar fortunes.
Of course, in the great crash of 1929, Livermore took another short position that made him over $100 million during the crash, a sum that equates to more than $1 billion dollars in today's money.
But there is only one side to the stock market; and it is not the bull side or the bear side, but the right side.--No man can always have adequate reasons for buying or selling stocks daily - or sufficient knowledge to make his play an intelligent play.--Another lesson I learned early is that there is nothing new in Wall Street.
Whatever happens in the stock market today has happened before and will happen again.--After spending many years in Wall Street and after making and losing millions of dollars I want to tell you this: It never was my thinking that made the big money for me.
My sitting tight!--The average man doesn’t wish to be told that it is a bull or bear market.
A fascinating look at stock trader Jessie Livermore, a self-made speculator who made and lost fortunes repeatedly in the early 1900s, before the advent of the Great Depression and securities regulations (no accident, I might add).
The first part of the book is very interesting, covering his early swashbuckling days making money from "bucket shops", essentially unregulated stock gambling establishments where the house bets against unsuspecting customers.
He gets so successful that he has to rotate among different locations and use disguises to avoid being discovered (a lot like modern-day card sharks or the movie "21".Once he moves into more legitimate brokerage trading, the story gets quite repetitive detailing his various trading schemes, along with successes and failures.
It really is an extraordinary read, and completely timeless.This is part-biography, part-guide to speculation, part-warning to the public about the tricks companies and Wall Street pull on private investors to part them from their money.What's remarkable is that he was calling these 'old tricks' and referring to behaviour in the 1800s.
Apple - one of the world's top ten stocks by market capitalisation at the time of writing - underwent such a pointless split just two months ago (June 2014) and the investing public loved it like the suckers they (we) are.Why bother reading the current slew of books about Wall Street cons when you can buy this classic for pennies?
Jesse Livermore ,or Livington, an author of this amazing, compelling, easy-to-understand book has implemented tips and tricks of how to beat the market and knowing ahead of the "stock manipulators" through story-telling about his life as an independent trader.
Not only you would get to know tips and tricks from reading this book, but also a life of one of the most talented trader of all time as well.
This book is a "must" have for traders who are seriously planning on making a fortune through this dynamic-volatile stock market.
You will surely not regret reading this book.
Be that as it may, the book is refreshing in showing that even an unregulated market is not a market of thieves: It is still difficult to make money because the market itself has punishing mechanisms that may reflect the vagaries of human nature.
The character in the book always seeks clarity and is wonderfully aware of his own limitations -- but that doesn't stop him from trying to beat the market.
Fascinating insights into human nature from a journalist who understood the character about which he wrote this book.

This is a great book, expertly written, that takes you inside the mind of stock speculator Larry Livingston (AKA Jesse Livermore), who made and lost fortunes in the stock market in the early 1900s.
The narrator is a great writer, who guides the reader through Livingston's ups and downs, speculations, and the logic behind all of it.
Without it, a lot of the book's information might fly right over the reader's head; hence, 4.5 stars.
This is only the second book that I've read about Stock Market speculation, but I'm pretty sure that it'll be hard to find any better.
I suppose the biggest plus about this book is that these principles aren't discussed in a dry, theoretical fashion, but instead, delivered through a series of (entertaining) experiences recounted by the narrator.
If you're new to the stock market game, read this book.
And if you're not, and you still haven't read this book, you probably should.
Right out of Grammar School, Larry Livingston got a job as a quotation board boy in a stock brokerage office where he posted numbers on the big board in the customer’s room.
The book talks of his experiences from his first trade on Burlington and his profit of 3.12$ and getting the name of Boy Plunger in the bucket shops to his entry and winnings on Wall Street.
Larry was wiped out clean several times which taught him his lessons and have been narrated in detail in the book.
There is no asphalt boulevard to success in Wall Street or anywhere else.
I liked the book.
As many authors stated, the rules of 1923 stock exchanges are much different than they are today.
For example, insider trading was rife before the Great Depression and many of the best stocks were locked up by insiders or groups.
This second example does happen today (Sears Holdings anyone?) but is much more difficult to maneuver legally for fun and profit.
A very good book and I wish I had read it in my 20s when I first started trading.
I had a slight interest in stocks and trading before I read this and then got even more interested.
Of course, this book has a significantly different bend - with the narrative primarily being about huge sums of money won and lost through big (and mostly bearish) stock market trades.I enjoyed it thoroughly and finished reading it in February while walking down the beach in St Petersburg FL on a sunny, cool and blustery day.
If you have a remote interest in the stock market, I recommend this read.

