https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/437563.On_the_Way_to_Language
yeah this book booked the hellouta me. several holy moments, several hours into reading, would grasp me and pull me all the way in ... but reading this from the outside is torture
In fact, and maybe this is in part due to the translation, but only in part, I found the reading of this collection of essays on Language and poetry and poetic thought to be fun, inviting reflection in ways that was engaging and constantly pulling me farther, forward into the essays rather than--as is often the case for me when reading philo--making me stop for months of reflction before getting to the next pages.
The styles of the essays are varied, from imagined dialogues to a line-by line close readings on german poetry, all equally satisfying.
This is pretty wonderful. Deeply illuminating. I recommend this one. It will make you rethink what is "Thinking" and what are we really doing when we assume we "Understand" one another in conversation.
Ich habe Stunden und Tagen verbracht an jeder Zeile. Es hat mich wirklich bezaubert, wie Heidegger mit den Wörtern gespielt hat. Eine echte Kunstwerk für jemand, der Interesse an übersetzen und Philosophie hat. Unbedingt auf Deutsch lesen!
The best evidence for my belief that Heidegger's and Wittgenstein's theories of language are intertwined....
On the Way to Language consists of two texts: the first one is about a poem of Trakl.
This relation between things, its presence and its absence, both at the same time, are what makes Heideggers way of thinking so fascinating.
In just the exact way that I tried to explain above - it feels like absorbing a strong drug into your very brain while reading.The following dialogue with a japanese man follows a very similar theme.
There it is revealed, what I long expected while reading Heidegger: there is a heavy link between his way of thinking and the ancienct asian one.
Right, so this is an extremely challenging collection, Heidegger's examination of language is definitely key to his overall way of thinking, which is probably why it's so hard to get at, for a lot of these he seems more interested in pointing the way towards a meaningful inquiry than actually trying to engage and wrestle with one.
I felta lot less confident about what he's trying to pursue here than I do about the stuff in 'Poetry, Language, Thought.' Even taking them at just 5-10 pages a day, I think I'll need to go through these again some time later on before I can get a definite sense of them.
Major translation problems. Heidegger's German is all about forging and asserting conceptual linkages between etymologically related or similar words. The translator has neither made an attempt to recreate this, nor shown the German words in brackets so that we can follow the movements of Heidegger's thought. So it just sounds like he is making random assertions about the connections of things that do not otherwise seem to be connected. The translation of the essay "The Way to Language" in Basic Writings is better than the one here, but still problematic.
As per usual with Heidegger, the Teutonic thickness proves an obscurantist hedgerow encasing clearings—minuscule but not infrequent—wherein the brilliance and relevance of the essential depths the philosopher is mining startle in their openness, and provide ample food for thought.
This appropriating occurs insofar as the essential unfolding of language, the peal of silence, requires mortals in order to sound out as the peal of silence for the hearing of mortals.
Only insofar as humans belong within the peal of silence are humans as mortals, in their manner, capable of vocalized speech.
Many of his ideas from Being and Time show up in his dialogue and lectures, but the most important part of Heidegger's corpus to know for this book is his essay entitled "Letter on Humanism." It is in this letter that he brings up the idea of language as the house of Being.All in all, this is one of the more understandable works I've read of Heidegger's.
I think he is often unfair to science and the analytic tradition of philosophy.Still, this is a must read for anyone interested in Heidegger.
I'm not exactly sure what's going on in this book. Something about letting language speak to one as language. For Heidegger, language speaks as language when in the poetic form. I picked this book up because I was completely bored with my analytic philosophy of language course (Kripke, Soames, Quine, etc).
Good stuff. Heidegger posits being in language; in other words, you are what you speak, you speak what you are. Heidegger had a wonderful command of language; even in translation his presence is felt.
I am really interested in the thought but found the language so inaccessible that the meaning was hidden.
discussed here: http://www.5cense.com/11/madrid.htm
Людина мовить, лише коли вона мові відповідає. Мова мовить.
