https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/714380.The_Discoverers
The book is divided into wonderfully concise chapters of about 5-8 pages, and in almost every one of them I became instantly interested in the protagonist, and awed by the courage or brilliance of his discovery.
In a good number of them I either found the answer to some question I had always wondered about, or found intriguing discussion of something it had never really occurred to me to wonder about -- such as why there are seven days in a week, when nothing in nature dictates it.
It took me about six weeks to read this book because I wanted to take my time with it.The Discoverers is a history of our attempt to understand the world and our place in it.
Also, a theory of evolution isn't possible until geology extends the age of the Earth far beyond the traditional age of a few thousand years.The focus is mainly on The West, meaning Europe and America, but there are also sections explaining how other cultures (mainly China and Islam) were an influence on events or why what was happening in the West wasn't happening there.
Začeci nauke su se desili kada su ljudi počeli da kvantifikuju stvari, vreme i događaje.
Njihova učenja su se prenosila kroz čitave epohe u srednjem veku i, pošto su se poklapala sa hrišćanskim dogmama, bila su neprikosnovena.Tek u vreme kada ljudi više nisu mogli tako lako da budu optuženi za saradnju sa đavolom ako, na primer, koriste kompas ili teleskop započelo je veliko Doba otkrića.
Ovakve stvari dokazuju da ima još mnogo da se ide, i da kritički duh još uvek nije dopro do svih, uprkos svemu što nas, između ostalih, uči i ova knjiga.Preporučujem je svakome koga interesuje istorija nauke, kao i "velika slika".
I recommend this edition for the fantastic visual context it gives for the huge sweeps of history Boorstin surveys.
I finally finished because I broke down and lugged it on my commute (my main reading time).The book itself is an ambitious survey of advances that lead to greater and greater precision of describing the world in scientific terms, divided somewhat arbitrarily into four sections - "Time", "The Earth and Seas", "Nature" and "Society." Boorstin illustrates this progress through colorful biographical sketches of individuals who contributed to these advances, with some asides for analysis and historical what-if questions.There's much to criticize.
Boorstin's reliance on biographic sketches of 'men of genius' sometimes neglects the broader social context that lead to the discoveries, and sometimes neglects detailing previous advances a particular discoverer was drawing upon.
He underestimated the circumference by 15% and extended Asia way too far east which would delude Columbus when Ptolemy’s geography reappeared in the West in the fifteenth century.
Boorstin points out, “The great obstacle to discovering the shape of the earth, the continents, and the ocean was not ignorance but the illusion of knowledge.” As he notes, “More appealing than knowledge itself is the feeling of knowing.” Christian Europe was in the Great Interruption lasting from the fourth to the fourteenth century.
Thus Europe was shut out of Asian trade until the Portuguese in the fifteenth century found their way around Africa launching the age of discovery.
Three-and-a-half stars for the book itself, which presents the history of human thought in chapters that detail the world's greatest discoveries, scientists and thinkers from astronomy to geography to psychology to religion and dozens of other points in between.
I round my review up to four for the fact that my copy is dog-eared and falling apart because it was my late father's favourite book.
He was an armchair traveller and pursuer of knowledge who was curtailed only by his life's circumstances from being an adventurer and discoverer himself.
I had no idea this Boorstin guy was well known when I stole the beat up old book from my family's bookshelf for my own perusal. I was pleasantly surprised the entire time, amazed that what I thought was a run of the mill shelf filler would be so consistently interesting an engaging. It's a neat book, one worth reading - it's been a while now and I don't remember most of what is in there, but I can tell you that I'll never think of clocks the same way again.
I bought it as an ‘airport’ book for a long flight in about 1985 and could not put it down.
Boorstin documents in wonderful conversational and personal prose the historical process of discovery of the heavens , earth and man - of himself and his place in the cosmos .
The focus is on this process in the west mostly through science and technology , with some passing reference to philosophy and religion.
However , this is not a conventional history but a sweeping view across more than 2000 years with many of the authors personal opinions and areas of interest providing the necessary stimulating examples to carry this multi layered narrative forward .
It tells the history of scientists and discoverers in the form of a story.
It draws you into the story and develops the same spirit of inquiry the discoverers themselves would have experienced as they set out to discover.2.
I am so weary of history books that pretend to be unbiased when they aren't.
This books is unabashedly biased, but you know he is biased and you know what that bias is.
You don't have some author trying to pretend he isn't biased, which really means he is trying to subtly teach you his bias.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading and teaching from this book.
I enjoyed hearing about human ingenuity over the ages.I particularly liked hearing about the mapping of the seas.Points on a map, incrementally added over time, arrived at byexceptional adventure/vision/luck/greed. Another interestingtheme was the transformation of old ideas to new; the tenacity of tradition. The often mundane and sometimesbrutality of dogma. How a person forges a new path withinsight and research and encourages those two great tasks; yet, his followers deify the thinker, create a new fortress aroundthose ideas and now we're stuck with it for 1 thousand years. And here comes a discoverer to start the process over again.
I'll write a more detailed review latter but this was amaze balls!
The Discoverers by Daniel Boorstin, published in 1985, is a solid, thoroughly researched and well documented series of 82 essays on the history of human discovery.
For me, the book has two aspects that set it well above similar works on scientific history.
That is, an exploration of how we discovered things that one might not normally think of as a discovery, such as the measurement of Time, or how did the idea of divisions in pre-history into Stone, Bronze and Iton ages develop.
"Why not them" is at least as interesting (if not more) a subject than why Gutenberg did invent it.
This is definitely a book to review while one is reading it.
I read it almost every morning over breakfast.
After a few pages every morning for about a year.
This was indeed an adventure in reading.
The final discoverers discussed by Boorstin, Faraday, Maxwell and Einstein (among many others), discovered evidence that the universe is a unified field rather than a void containing the interaction of discrete units.
Boorstin's history brims with this excitement on every page.One of the best features of The Discoverers is a wonderful bibliography wherein Boorstin not only lists, but discusses his voluminous source material.
The book is a history of exploration both geographic and intellectual.
It spends time on the scientific revolution of Copernicus through Newton, it goes into Darwin and Lyell.
It covers the intellectuals and explorers that any educated person in the mid to late 20th century was expected to be familiar with.
Strangely it didn't have very much material on 20th century developments this seems odd.
For a book about discoveries it seems strange to omit much of century where the most discoveries had been made.
The style of the book was pleasant and interesting if a little idionsyncratic but on balance worth the time.
An adventure story of our gradual awakening to the world through clocks, telescopes, microscopes, maps, and the printing press. There is immense scholarship that mines the lives of thinkers, scholars, rulers, poets, inventors, scientists, and artists.Boorstin's book is a tour de force, pulling together sources from multiple sources and cultures to give us a mirror of our intellectual, scientific evolution. The conflict between traditional sources of authority and liberating technologies provides an excellent context in which to understand the current political upheavals as the Internet, AI, and robotics reshape our language, culture, and expectations. Highly recommended.
Neither deep nor systematic, this popular history of human discovery is still a fun, albeit anecdotal, read.
I listened to the audiobook of this one, which means that I need to go back and dive in deeper, but on the surface, the book was aesthetically beautiful and the conclusions pushed me to think a lot about progress, achievement, multiculturalism and the pursuit of knowledge.
I particularly loved the descriptions of Portugal during the Age of Discovery, the short history of medicine and the long meditations on the role of Christianity and Western Culture on scientific discovery.
While it's certainly a book that expounds a great-man's theory of history, it's style of writing reminded me of Keegan's History of Warfare, and I was struck by the sheer joy of following along with Boorstein's path through modern history.
These general topics are related to the reader through the stories of the explorers and scientists who uncovered new lands and new knowledge, and Boorstin's smooth writing style and talent for both panoramic surveys and detailed explanations should make the content stick in the mind a bit better than the somewhat disjointed style of most textbooks.
The overall lesson is that progress is very difficult: people's prejudices - be they the spontaneous generation, geocentrism, the threefold world map - are almost always seemingly reasonable and justifiable by simple inspection, and it takes a lot of deep thinking and hard work to advance the frontiers of knowledge.
You have to invent Time to invent a watch.
Of course, something better than bricks may come along as well.From Time, the book moves on to Geography, and more than just if the world is flat, round, or riding on the backs of four elephants on the back of a giant tortoise.
The parts on economics should have interested me more, but by this time I was tired of the book and looking forward to the "Some Reference Notes" which turned out to be a chatty and enthusiastic bibliography.
Great, just what I need: more reading that will make me sexually unattractive ...
I may be be experiencing a bit of a recency bias since he was at the end of the book but he was such a well-intentioned visionary and I enjoyed reading his letters.A few critiques -Sometimes Boorstin would get out of discovery territory and that would bother me.
Food for thought - A major theme in the book is how fear of things that are difficult to understand, religion, and the confidence in one's existing "knowledge" serve as barriers to true knowledge.
We must learn from history and not let fear and false confidence block progress and understanding.
I took that as a hint, and that's how I've discovered this book, bits and pieces at a time, and in no order except the order of my interests.The book is organized into four 'Books'.
For example, within Book One: TIME, there is a Part III: The Missionary Clock and then three numbered sections; #7 Open Sesame to China; #8 Mother of Machines; and #9 Why it Happened in the West.
The page numbers follow each named section.I have throughly enjoyed my start/stop manner of reading this book.
An amazing journey through discovery. I found this book very challenging to read. My pace was about 1/3rd what my normal reading rate was. Although had to restart many times I kept returning to and attempting to read. This year I finally made it through and am happy for it. The book is full of fascinating stories of people that changed the world or the perception of it. It took me more than 10 years to finally read cover to cover and I'm already considering reading it again. But in a few years...
I re-read this after a hiatus of many years. This is Boorstin's exploration of "discoverers" - those who have pushed back the boundaries of the world in time or space (those who formulated the calendar, or mapped the world, discovered new trade routes, discovered the principles of mathematics or physics or biology, etc). A truly encylcopedic view of the history of discovery - well worth reading.
Facinating view of the key people whose discoveries made a significant change in the history and culture of the world. My only complaint is that it doesn't have the footnotes most works of history have, but it is well written and deserves to be read by those who appreciate the heroics of those who dare to explore beyond the conventional borders of the culture in which they live.
hmmm. do I still own this.....
A monumental achievement. Well worth the reading. It wasn't as compellingly written as I might have liked. It took me a good while to get through it. But it's a great reference work.
This book is required reading for anyone trying to understand how the world works.Some of the best quotes from the book:"The most promising words ever written on the maps of human knowledge are terra incognita—unknown territory""THE great obstacle to discovering the shape of the earth, the continents, and the ocean was not ignorance but the illusion of knowledge""Slow to change, the sacred written sources acquired credibility by repetition.
“Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.”"The “finality of Jesus,” elaborated by Augustine into a theory of history, would govern Christian thought in Europe for the next thousand years.""Only in 1949 did the Chinese government go New Style with the Gregorian calendar.
Where can we ever found another book that its author decided to start a chronicle of mankind's history, not with a material theme such as writing or metal-working, but with a theme much closer to man's being, that all-mysterious concept, Time?It was then, I knew, that reading this book would be a wonderful journey.
And, it is.Starting from Time, Boorstin brought us into a journey recounting man's Promethean effort of freeing himself from first the binding of the moon (lunar year), and then overcoming the sun itself (solar year) and then stood at the peak with an affirmation of Man's independence from the nature with his inventions of minutes and seconds, free from the binding of Selene and Apollo.Then, he successively unfurled entire Man's history.
Nhìn ngày bắt đầu đọc quyển sách mà giật mình vì lượng thông tin quá lớn bên trong, 11-2016, tức là mình đã mất hơn cả năm để đọc 750 trang sách (mà vẫn không tự tin hiểu hết được mọi điều đã đọc qua).
Có những thứ tưởng chừng như quá hiển nhiên trong thời đại hôm nay nhưng chúng lại ẩn chứa cả một câu chuyện dài tính bằng đời người, bằng cái nghìn triệu năm.
Mình học cho nhiều để cuối cùng nhận ra mình đúng nghĩa là một hạt bụi, nhỏ bé và rốt cuộc vẫn chẳng hiểu gì về thế giới.
Consider Galen's work on medicine, without it (even when mostly erroneous), there could be no enlightenment and improvement.
Imagine how much farther along medicine would be if people were able to move past Galen.
This book is about discovery and those interested in a deeper understanding of why the West rose to prominence should look to Civilization: The West and the Rest by Niall Ferguson.Boorstin isn't afraid to take down historical favorites such as Adam Smith and Colombus (whom he has a particular dislike), but balances his critique with the application credit where and when it's due.
