https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1785267.Principia
I read this for Neil deGrasse Tyson's list of eight books every intelligent person should read. I don't feel like I can give it a rating because I didn't follow any of the math, but I did enjoy Newton's arrogance. It was amazing how much people could learn in the 1600s with the limited technology and religious influences that surrounded scientists.
Dear me: Archive.org has the full text for free: http://www.archive.org/stream/newtons...
e book review: A challenging science book but a rewarding reading experience to appreciate the powers of observation and mathematics. A discussion of the scientific proofs on the motion of the planets by Newton.The Dr. Tyson book challenge:http://www.openculture.com/2011/12/ne...
Neil says to read this book: "to learn of our kinship with all other life on earth"
This is difficult read that reminds me of the days of plowing my way through Calculus.
Although painful, it's a humbling experience to realize my limited intelligence and desire to be this focused on a subject.
In addition, I appreciate the brilliance of the people that made these discovers.
But, I do not want to read the details.In addition, I do not want to read the never ending detail about water tides.
I did however have an ah ha moment when water rises in one place it must recede someplace else.
Чтобы понять, почему предположения Ньютона следует считать истинными, нужно ознакомиться с приводимыми им правилами для умозаключений в физике. Исходить приходится из понимания достижений науки на определённый момент времени. Более имеющегося Ньютон брать не предлагает. Нельзя уходить в измышлениях в доселе скрытые материи. Всё требуется объяснять посредством проведённых опытов. Ньютон провёл оные, о чём написаны первая и вторая книги, подготовив доказательства для обоснования собственной системы мира.(c) Trounin
A short but incredibly difficult book to read. I have an interest in space, astronomy and science but this book delves quite deep into the working of the solar system. My difficulties came from the language used (obviously I am aware it was written sometime ago). Not recommended for anyone but the most dedicated science historians for you can get all this information in much clearer (and up to date) way for any number of current books
Can anyone please give some review? I really really interested in science and this book, but is it worth my money?
I may have understood more going in with a basic understanding of calculus, but still interesting reading about the forces working upon the planets, moons, tides, etc.
i will read
The first bit was interesting where he describes his famous laws of motion. After that it is a challenging series of proofs.
"...I just like a boy who plays a ball on the sea-shore...."
