https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64960.The_Face_of_Fear
So what better person to buddy-read Koontz books with- than the "in your face no passes allowed" Edward ?
I needed someone to take off my rose colored reading glasses and shake things up a bit.
The first on our list of buddying up reads?
THE FACE OF FEAR.[image error]A serial killer "The Butcher" is stalking the women of New York City.[image error]Until he turns his sights on Graham Harris and his girlfriend Connie...[image error]Graham Harris used to climb mountains- until a fall left him with a bum leg, a fear of heights...and psychic abilities.
I read a couple of his other books later – they were decent but not great.
He quotes the poet William Blake and the philosopher Nietzsche.Now enters Graham Harris – a clairvoyant who gets visions of the Butcher and gets somewhat close to discovering his identify.
Graham would have to face his worst fears in order to protect himself and Connie.
Graham is a somewhat fleshed out character.
Connie is the devoted girlfriend who tries to restore confidence in Graham and helps him face his fears.
At times, the dialogues between the two were a bit too melodramatic for me.
I got this book for my 20th birthday last week!
I loved it back in junior high school and this book reminds me very much of it.
These ultramodern office buildings are always quite creepy simply because they're so high above the ground, reaching for power up in the sky but trapping any inhabitants.
This is a daring, fast-paced thriller with a streak of madness and mayhem as two people struggle to find a way out of an abandoned office building with a murderer out to get them.
Later in his career, he released the novel version, and it is one of my favorite books from him, although many Koontz fans hate it.
It's been a decade since I fan-flailed over a Koontz novel, and two decades since he was consistently good.
Every single book by Koontz with cover art like this is at least worth a read.
Graham's visions are public information, so The Butcher decides to kill Graham and Graham's subservient live-in girlfriend Connie.
I enjoy reading about strong female characters.
My Second Read - Koontzland Group Read - February 2018  Rereading was fun & allowed me to add the following:Graham Harris (ex-mountain climber) falls & hits his head from Mt. Everest getting "clairvoyant" powers. He & Connie Davis (girlfriend) help the NYPD track a serial killer that leaves "nude female bodies" behind in a NY office building. The serial killer has them on 40th floor. They need to think how to escape from this crazy man trying to kill them, "The Butcher"?!They can't
My Second Read - Koontzland Group Read - February 2018
He & Connie Davis (girlfriend) help the NYPD track a serial killer that leaves "nude female bodies" behind in a NY office building.
The serial killer has them on 40th floor.
They need to think how to escape from this crazy man trying to kill them, "The Butcher"?!They can't jump.
Isn't a 40th floor jump from any tall building impossible?
My first read - July 2015A murderer ("The Butcher") chases Graham Harris and Connie Davis (girlfriend) up & down a empty office building on a snowy weekend.
Koontzland - Group Home
What sets it apart from countless other paperback thriller sold at drugstores and airports is the concept: the whole novel plays out in an skyscraper, and the stairs and the elevator are off limits: the only way out is to climb down.The Face of Fear features Graham Harris, an ex-mountain climber with a bad fall in his past.
As opposed to his newer works, Koontz doesn't focus on character study, instead choosing to focus on the action sequences that drive the plot forward: the floor to floor chases and climbing down maintain the suspense to the very end.
The story reminded me of reading The Voice of the Night also written by Dean Koontz using the pen name Brian Coffey.
The audiobook has the same narrator as The Voice of the Night.
The Face of Fear also has some similarities to another early Koontz title called The Vision.I think the big pay off is in the end of the book, which I thought was fun :-) Some Favorite Passages:The senses inward rushed, shrinkingBeneath the dark net of infection.______If you try to call for help, I'll push this pig sticker straight into your lovely throat.
I've read so many mediocre books lately, I just want to throw this at all of those authors and say THIS IS HOW YOU WRITE A BOOK.
This is how you make your main characters fall in love.This is how you write something worth god damn reading.I was hooked from the very first page.
It's been a long time since I read a book that made me lose track of time, but I looked up after finishing this and realized I had lost two hours somewhere in there.The fact that this book is listed on Dean Koontz's WORST books...is insane to me.
I haven't read much by him but if this is his poor work, I'm not sure I can handle the good stuff.
This was an intense story. For me, it was a really wonderful story line. Death, love, athletic intensity, views of the future, facing fears, blah blah blah. I can see why he has been writing for as long as he has. In this book though, at times the writing was a bit over the top which ruined everything else going on.
This book was an easy read, but I thought the character development could have been better, and the ending seemed a little rushed, still it was a page turner.
When I read the back of this book to someone, once we reached, “and there’s a blizzard outside, they laughed and said, “Oh, of course.”The plot may sound interesting but nothing like Koontz’s usual work.
But after the first few scenes, the book begins to get a bit too much, and throughout this review I’ll touch upon the stepping stones that explain why.The atmosphere was tense, of course, but this actually worked against it.
After all this is constantly whirling around, the tension loosens as it just grows tiring.Graham came across as a likeable character and as I mentioned above, his visions were unique.
3.5 stars. Great plot, exciting story, definitely old school Koontz. However, the characters aren't fleshed out very well.
A garden variety Koontz thriller. It was enjoyable and fast paced but nothing special.
Phantoms is a great horror novel (from what I remember cuz it’s been a while) and I immediately labeled DK a horror writer because of it (and probably also because his books are always sitting right next to Stephen King’s at every book store.) 8 or 9 books later I have yet to read a DK novel that is up there with Phantoms and I’ve come to terms with the fact that most of his stuff isn’t horror at all.
(My brain didn’t have to work at all in this one.)Phantoms it’s not and yeah there are some flaws (like some horrific dialogue for one thing) but all in all it’s a fun little book that deserves somewhere between 3.5 and 4 stars.
whilst on a tv show he has a vision of murder 10 obviously the butcher learns of this and sets out to eliminate graham before any more damage is done.
this leads to a 42 storey building in a snowstorm that the only way to escape is rappelling down the o/s - if he can overcome his deep rooted fear and not be murdered in the process plus his girlfriend is with him a suspenseful novel with great characterisation though it was fairly obvious who billy was from early on just a couple of questions - why did he not take out the cameras or destroy the tapes?
In this one, Graham and his girlfriend are trapped in a high rise building by a serial killer known as The Butcher.
The majority of this book is about the chase and it is one of his better chases that the author has wrote.
The problem was the author never left the reader with any options for the reveal and because of this it wasn't a surprise.This book is a quick read and I liked the concept and setting of this book.
If this book was written now I believe it would be so much better.
Five stars for very likeable protagonists, who find a creative way of escaping from their situation. The villain is another one of those crazy sickos with a knife. Not my favorite kind of horror. But, with the fantastic action/adventure, I have to give this one a high rating.
Good suspense filled read with a great twist at the end.
if you're really low, almost brain-dead, and you wish to read a book that makes you feel like you're watching a second-rate TV movie from the 70s, this might be the book for you.It was the book for me when I read it, and I quite enjoyed it.
Very short novel, but a great read! It's exciting and fast-paced, and I totally guessed the mystery person! This book was awesome!
Most people have a fear of falling, but in The Face Of Fear, by Dean Koontz, it takes the fear of falling to a whole new level. Graham Harris was rock climbing on Everest and fell 30 feet shattering almost every bone in his body. Now it’s time to climb again, and for a good reason too. He is being hunted by a murderer who blocked the stairs and disabled the elevators, which means the only way out is outside. With a mystery that the readers try to figure out from word one, this book is one not to
With a mystery that the readers try to figure out from word one, this book is one not to miss.In this book, a climber named Graham Harris fell rock climbing on Everest and broke 16 of his bones.
After realizing that the Butcher had killed the security guards, disabled the phone and elevator, and blocked the stairs, Graham realizes that the only way out is outside the building.Graham and Connie find a climbing exhibit and take the gear out.
I have read many books and in no book do I feel as close to the characters as this one.
On board the Braniff plane, there's a one-hour delay on the runway.
Luckily, you bought this book (and some Bubs Daddy gum*), which lasts you the whole flight and keeps you from looking too often at the incredibly garish yellow and orange interior of your plane (google-image it, but not if you are feeling queasy.)By the time you hello-hug your aunt/mother/fiance whom you'll dump in four weeks anyway, you've forgotten the book.
I had the urge to push him off the ladder at one point myself.
The main premise of the book is an unknown serial killer who is out to murder and disfigure women.
Because of this, he and his girlfriend have to be murdered.
As with most of his books, Koonz plays around with psychology a lot and has created characters with some supernatural talent.
He has borrowed his characters heavily from the Leopold & Loeb case.
Connie annoyed me at times but once the chase is on, everything becomes too thrilling to worry about characterisations.
At times, there are too many details about climbing equipment, making parts of the book a little boring.
This book resembles a lot of "The Vision" by Dean Koontz where he used a clairvoyant who is been chased by a killer.
In "The Face Of Fear" it is not the question WHO is the killer as in "The Vision", but how will the hunted victim escape in a deserted skyscraper.I pretty liked this book because the story is plain and it reads smooth.
Stirring and off and on surprising.I think Dean Koontz wrote some good books, but also a lot worse (mainly too much too sweet clichés) but this one, is fairly good.
"Voice Of The Night" is my favorite book of Koontz.
I've been pretty tough on Dean Koontz lately as I've been rereading a lot of his books.
The Face of Fear is long on plot, a little short of characterization (with the notable exception of Harris), and suffers the ill fate of an abrupt climax.The action flows until Koontz gets hung up on climbing details, and then it flows again until the ending which feels, after a suspenseful build, a bit rushed and slapdash, almost as if Koontz was just tired of writing and was trying to get the story wrapped up.
Mostly good, but it still feels as if a few changes could have made this a better book.
Either be killed or climb out of a 40th floor window.... what's not to like! I know a lot of people aren't Koontz fans, but his older works are creepy and exciting! The Bad Place, The Voice in the Night, Shadowfires, just to name a few are great books. Pick up an older Koontz book and have fun! They are fast and powerful reads!
I liked the book! While it wasn't one of my favorite Koontz books It was good! that is why I only gave it 4 stars!
Knocked this out in a day. Very fast paced and exciting. Maybe a little too sappy an ending but it was a good read anyway!
Gripping read.
While on air the interviewer tries to discredit Graham.
Later, Graham is asked to a crime scene by a detective he has been working with.
The crime scene has clues that Graham indicated on air would happen.
The poetry lines (written in blood), refer to women's corruption of man, the eventual fall of man of man if something is not done.
Meanwhile, Graham returns to his Girlfriend of 18 months and his publishing company in an old high rise in Manhattan to try and catch up on some work in his publishing company.
Decide to kill Graham and his girlfriend in the high rise.
