https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3562.Emily_of_New_Moon
https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...Anne fans, I INSIST that you try Emily at some point.[image error]-----------------------------------I love the Emily books so much.
Her passion and her dreams, along with her dignity, were expressed in a way that really appealed to me when I read them as an impressionable teenager.
The formative years of every girl's life are filled with wild hopes and worries and exhilaration, and as an adult, I re-read this series with a great deal of fondness.I also love Teddy Kent.
Such a romantic character, and how lovely to have your childhood friend be the love of your life!
Emily of New Moon (Emily of New Moon #1), L.M. MontgomeryEmily of New Moon is the first in a series of novels by Lucy Maud Montgomery about an orphan girl growing up in Canada.
It is similar to the author's Anne of Green Gables series.
Similar to her earlier and more famous Anne of Green Gables series, the Emily novels depicted life through the eyes of a young orphan girl, Emily Starr, who is raised by her relatives after her father dies of tuberculosis.
داستان امیلی بیشتر واقعگرایانه است و بیشتر رخدادها برای نویسنده ی کتاب پیش آمده است.
نقل از متن کتاب: «...
امیلی گفت: کاش آدمها از همان لحظه ی تولد همه چیز یادشان میماند.
Emily of New Moon is right up there with Anne of Green Gables. Emily Byrd Starr is another timeless and unforgettable character from the mind of L.M. Montgomery.She's more serious and complex than Anne but just as stubborn and just as lovable. Written for teens and young adults, but anyone can enjoy this wonderful classic.
In many ways, this book ressembles "Anne of Green Gables" a lot.
I also really liked the fact that Emily actually grows up in this book and goes out a little bit in the world (something that I missed in Anne of Green Gables).
All of this made sure that I was never bored, and I gradually grew to care a lot about poor and sweet Emily.
Nevertheless, I grew to appreciate even those because they added very much to her story and her growing up.
All in all, a really endearing and honest story that I'm keen on continuing very soon with the next novel in the series.
With this review, we're revisiting another one of my old favourite, my comfort reads, the books I can still pick up and read with a great deal of pleasure, almost as much as when I was curled up in my bed as a girl, discovering this world for the first time.
Which is all to say that this review is naturally heavily coloured by all of who I was and who I am now, and how this book has fit into my personal mythology for many, many years.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
Before Maud's Betsy-Tacy series had its Emily, bless our souls, Lucy Maud had hers. And I say "bless our souls" in the most literal sense, because time spent with either Emily can feed an inner flame reduced to the faintest flicker by heartbreak, doubt and despair. But please--Emily Byrd Starr is no shrinking violet. Here we have a fierce, free-spirited young iconoclast who, even more than Anne with an "e", has a thing or two to teach any adult with enough sense (and imagination) to listen.
Emily of New Moon  has a much darker quality than the Anne of Green Gables series – and Emily as a character is not nearly as likable or sweet as Anne. But she seems real. Although LMM tends to stylize/idealize her heroines a little, you can sense the three-dimensional quality of Emily's personality from the first chapter. Anne is 3D too, of course, but Anne's character tends to emerge little by little, whereas Emily dominates her story right from the start. And there's plenty of attention to E
has a much darker quality than the Anne of Green Gables series – and Emily as a character is not nearly as likable or sweet as Anne.
Although LMM tends to stylize/idealize her heroines a little, you can sense the three-dimensional quality of Emily's personality from the first chapter.
Anne is 3D too, of course, but Anne's character tends to emerge little by little, whereas Emily dominates her story right from the start.
As beloved as Anne is, Emily has more interesting possibilities.
Bottom line: One of LMM's more complex and interesting stories and heroines, if not as heartwarming and lovely as the Anne series.
It had its moments, but I couldn't help comparing it to Anne of Green Gables, one of my favorite books.
There were many similarities between the two books: orphaned girl with spunk, stern Aunt, clumsy mishaps, writing and poetry, the works.
Moments I would not have detected as a child reading it so I'm quite glad I picked this book up when I did.
I thought he was a lot more memorable and romantic than that Teddy Kent.I'm quite excited to pick up the next two books and find out what happens to Emily and her friends as they tackle high school!
I wouldn't be the person that I am today if it wasn't for Emily Byrd Starr.“It had always seemed to Emily, ever since she could remember, that she was very, very near to a world of wonderful beauty.
While she is able to perceive all the glistening beauty in the world, she is touched by sorrow, her father's death and the stern eyes and expectations of her aunts.
She is able to observe and appreciate the little wonders in life, which people so easily overlook.
I am completely under Emily's spell, and yet again I find myself wondering how my childhood would have been without her.
Yes, I do give it three stars: "I liked it".
That is, in sixth grade, and for lack of a two-and-a-half star rating.
L.M. Montgomery created a pleasantly spicy heroine in the Anne series, but for me, Emily is a bit cloying.
The first time I read it, I was perfectly enamored with Emily; she was pretty, delicate, smart, and talented (and what?
Anne's hyper-emotional, hugely imaginative self made her admirable and interesting; for Emily, it was a bit over-the-top.
Overall, I enjoyed the book, but I found Emily a bit hard to swallow.Also: Dean Priest.
When she hid under the table to listen to the family conclave and was retorting furiously to them in her mind, I immediately thought, "I like this girl!" I also feel like I relate more to Emily than to Anne.
Emily is more brooding and withdrawn like me, whereas Anne is someone I wish I was like.Delight and magic are found in Emily's fancies, such as the Wind Woman, and in the characters Cousin Jimmy and Father Cassidy.
But what I love most about the book is what I have in common with Emily: the glory, relief, and fascination of writing things out.
"It had always seemed to Emily, ever since she could remember, that she was very, very near to a world of wonderful beauty. Between it and herself hung only a thin curtain; she could never draw the curtain aside - but sometimes, just for a moment, a wind fluttered it and then it was as if she caught a glimpse - and heard a note of unearthly music." *relates*
She told us how her father, the quiet newspaper editor, took her to the library and insisted she had to read about Anne Shirley.
Something about the book jacket made Mom sneer, but her dad insisted, so she read it.
Her older daughter appreciated them, but her younger daughter (yours truly) was the true kindred spirit.Mom told me she was just sure there had been more books, but her collection stopped at Anne of Ingleside.
Then in a few more months, my personal favorite of the Anne books, Rilla of Ingleside.
I read Emily's Quest regularly, whenever I'm feeling particularly tempestuous.
This book is just... perfect. *sigh* I absolutely loved it! It was  so  good! Anne of Green Gables is a masterpiece; however, I can't compare it with Emily of New Moon. There is a certain different aspect with Emily. Anne is simply Anne (although there is nothing 'simple' about her), and Emily is particularly Emily. Anyway, I highly recommend this book! It is SO WONDERFUL! :)
I wish viciously that I'd read this as a child, because goodness, there is so much here that brought back what it felt like to be enraptured by words, and thinking that putting them together was the single best thing I could do with my life. How wonderful Emily is. Extraordinary. Big sigh.
Such a beautiful story! I really savored this one. As a child I read the Anne series but somehow I missed this little gem which is just the same sort of warm and fuzzy goodness! They don't make stories like this anymore.
One thing my husband and I enjoy doing is reading a book out loud together.
There's no surprise here that he hadn't read Emily of New Moon because it definitely looks like a girly book, but I think the first in this series by L.M. Montgomery is a classic, so we read it together.
It seems the author just felt some responsibility to explain what happened to Emily and they don't carry the same magic the first book has.Every time I read this book, I find more things to like about it.
My husband described it as the most emotional book he had ever read.
I recently decided to reread this – one of my childhood favourites – because I am sick of people banging on about  Anne of Green Gables  when Emily was always my favourite Montgomery heroine. I told my mother I was rereading it and her face absolutely lit up, because Emily was her favourite too, and the copy we both read had belonged to my mother's mother.The early chapters I found viscerally moving. I was reading in the window at Mario's and found myself snuffling away tears at Emily's loss of
(After my mother laughed at something I'd written in utmost teenage seriousness, I never showed her any writing I cared about again.)I had never realised that this is a period book: from the clues here and there I think it must be set in the late 1880s or early 1890s.
But I did adore that Montgomery shows Emily herself realising this: reading back over her old work and finding it embarrassing and callow.As an adult I find some of the 'adult themes' here a bit heavy.
Got a lot better as it went along, but the beginning was pretty brutal.
As someone who really likes to see change and self-discovery in characters, there are a lot of growing pains in this novel.
At my book club, we chatted about how Emily is sort of the "dark" Anne, a lot more like L.M. Montgomery as a person, and she's got a lot more Gothic/Romantic influence in her story.
She's also a lot more ambitious, making EoNM a 'portrait of the artist as a young woman'.
I still like Anne a lot better, but this is worth reading for the contrast.
While it certainly wasn't Anne of Green Gables, this book, featuring a slightly similar character, is nearly as fun and well-written. Emily's adventures, day-to-day life and friendships are intriguing and easy to follow along with. I think my favorite character though was Ilse, she really added a feeling of rebellion and excitement to much of the novel.
This series is so dear to me! I cannot describe how much it meant to me, what a gorious friend I found in Emily, and how her journey to become a writer and a woman fit so well with my own heart and aspirations. I hope to visit these beautiful books again; Emily will be a kindred spirit for life!
Not close to the masterpiece that is The Blue Castle, but thoroughly enjoyable and engrossing.
This might be an unpopular opinion but very tempted to say that Emily is my favorite Montgomery heroine.
I just love L M Montgomery's writing and I cannot wait to read the rest of the series and watch Emily grow up.
But the writing just made the whole book feel magical, and paired with Emily's amazing imagination, it was just delicious.
From what I can remember, the writing was more beautiful in Emily, but Anne was a much more endearing character, in my opinion.
But I did prefer the setting and the writing in Emily, just not the characters.
I love reading about people writing, and this book just gave me that.
Emily's father dies and she goes to live at New Moon with her two aunts, but aside from that the book just chronicles her adventures.
It follows Emily as she changes, grows, writes, and lives at New Moon farm.
However, there is one thing which bothers me about the book and wish I get so angry at Montgomery for.
This book doesn't have them in it together very much but when they are it is frustrating because Emily is so innocent and young, and Dean is waiting for her to grow up so he can marry her pretty much!
I think in the time this book was written, it probably wasn't as strange for age to make such a difference.
However, I found myself drawn to the Emily character far more firmly, as she was much more like myself: an incurable writer.
The story of Emily is much darker, much bleaker, and yet, L.M.M. does what she does best, gives us brilliant characters, brilliant dialogue, chapter after chapter of little stories, and fantastic language.
Each character somehow manages to redeem him/herself at some point in the story.
It takes some serious doing to find the good in some people, but Emily manages to make the best of her situation.
Newly orphaned Emily is sent to live with her relatives at New Moon Farm, particularly her stodgy Aunt Elizabeth.
I think people identify with Emily and Anne because--well, spirited, bookish girls live on in all of us, and I'm no different.
Girls who are principled and stubborn and DO NOT GIVE IN, even when they're expected to, and especially when they're right.
I'll never forget the blow-up Emily had after Aunt Elizabeth read her diary.
And sigh, that diary--the way Emily still writes to her deceased father about how lonely she gets--makes me so sad and yet sympathetic.
I do love L.M. Montgomery. I read this with my book club, and I'm glad I had the excuse! I don't know if I would have gotten around to it on my own. I am a huge fan of Anne of Green Gables, and this one is just as lovely, if a bit darker and more brooding. I am thinking I might have to revisit the TV series one of these days!
The Anne of Green Gables vibe was always there and it would have seemed repetitive if it weren't for one simple difference. The presence of a father. That was what brought this book to the same level as Anne of Green Gables. Will be looking out for the sequels.
Perry and Emily are immediately close friends, though Ilse is never one to stop ragging on him about his grammar and his manners and whatever else he does that is improper.And then, of course, there's Teddy Kent.
This book has so much in it and it's so detailed and it's actually a very interesting novel.I would recommend this book to all readers.Main Character: EmilySidekick(s): Teddy, Ilse, Perry, Laura, Jimmy, Elizabeth, Mr. Carpenter, etcVillain(s): Elizabeth (at times), Rhoda, Ms Brownell, etcClassic Elements: What makes a book a classic?
