https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154472.The_Great_War_and_Modern_Memory
This in turn paved the way for the reactions after the war in the Modernist masterpieces of irony by non-participants with better writing talent (e.g. Joyce, Woolf, Pound, Eliot) and later for a more unfettered vision of its absurdity and obscenity in postmodernist works like Heller’s “Catch-22” and Pynchon’s “Gravity’s Rainbow”, despite their ostensible settings of World War 2.
Despite the appearance of a memoir with names changed, the work leaves out that Sassoon was gay and that he was intensely active in writing and publishing poetry in this period and neglects the personal impact of his friendship with and mentorshiop of fellow poet Willfred Owen at the hospital.Sassoon’s friend, Robert Graves, also wins high marks from Fussell for successfully capturing the miserable state of the British soldier and military society in his “Good-bye to All That”.
Fussell is interested in English war writing because Sassoon, Owen and Blunden modify ironically the pre-modern tropes and imagery with which they must describe a modern experience.
Highlighting the insanity of trench warfare, and the ‘ridiculous proximity of the trenches to home’, Fussell first traces the various ways people responded to this grotesque irony, and then considers how it has affected language, culture and thought processes since.Though he does look at some contemporary letters and diaries, his main sources of evidence are the great literary responses to the war, especially Sassoon, Graves, Blunden, Owen, and David Jones, and he locates the source of all their techniques in ‘irony-assisted recall’.I love this attention to irony as the defining quality of the war; but it also epitomises a sense I had that Fussell was claiming a special status for the First World War that it didn't really possess.
He has elsewhere made it clear (in an essay included in his Thank God for the Atom Bomb collection, though I can't remember its name) that he thinks authors who respond to their critics in depth are idiots, so I guess it was never meant to be, but an ounce of humility might have been nice.Anyway, with due admission of the importance it holds to many people, and the reputation that it has won, there is much about that makes it a very poor book.Fussell makes a very big deal about how he wants to get back to what the real, regular men doing the real fighting had to say and think about the war experience, and to wrest command of this idea away from the intellectuals, the generals, the politicians -- the "official" narrative.
They would read nothing of the great disasters of British arms such as The Battle of the Somme.There is so much to this book.
But it was a peculiar English literary convention that settled upon the poppy as the symbolic flower of the war.
There are other overtones to the poppy that perhaps the official remembrance committees would like to overlook.
Words, and the shape they give to our memories and imaginations individually and collectively, have an effect upon even the most visceral of experiences like modern warfare.
I did not understand this so fully until I read this book.
I rarely read non-fiction, but this just took my breath away. It's both a wonderful (and achingly sad) introduction to the poets and writers who emerged (or didn't) from World War I, as well as an eye-opening description of how that conflict shaped modern life.
Back in the days of Operation Desert Storm, when Barnard educated NY Times columnist Anna Quindlen was sneering at American combat troops as blue-collar rabble "not smart, not rich, not directed enough for college" she also found time to make a ritualistic little salute to "that graceful writer, Paul Fussell."But you can't always judge a man by the friends he chooses -- or who choose him.On one level, this certainly is an anti-war classic.
Perhaps Fussell's idiosyncratic approach was one of the only ways to really convey the true nature of this monumental cesspit of humanity's failure.Of dozens of books I've read on WWI, both memoirs and first-generation and second-generation histories, I consider "The Great War and Modern Memory" absolutely one of the essential works on the topic.
My short list also includes Tardi's "C'etait la Guerre de Trancheés," Graves' "Goodbye to All That," Sassoon's "Memoirs of an Infantry Officer", Blunden's "Undertones of War", Penguin's compilation of First War verse, Modris Eksteins' "Rites of Spring" and Keegan's traditional history, "The First World War".I consider WWI the birthplace of our current global condition: the point at which European hegemony began to crumble via its own immolation and the beginnings of the global movement towards liberation, self-determination and universal human rights.
An exceptional book, especially for those of us who appreciate the interconnections Fussell makes between literature and war. With a deft hand, he pulls together literary tradition right into the middle of the fray and opens the very heart of the wound. This is the first time I've truly understood war, and I see how it had to be done through literature. This will be a very personal book -- there will be lovers and haters. I can't imagine sitting on the fence on this one.
Paul Fussell's now classic examination at how World War I is remembered by looking at British literature - both fiction and non-fiction.
This is not a military history of World War I though Fussell does provide some background in order to put things into context.
It has been pointed out by some that this book is now out of date and Fussell's research and conclusions are obsolete (as if they were last year's model).
Well perhaps, but I believe it's up to the individual reader to reach his or her's own conclusion and the only way to do that is to read this book.
But the arguments he makes are fascinating and enjoyable to contemplate, with a bonus being that he ends up giving a tour of the incredible poetry and literature during that era.Fussell reviews the work of a couple of WWI veteran writers that most people will be familiar with, including Siegfried Sassoon, Robert Graves and, briefly, Erich Maria Remarque.
In many ways the victory of irony has meant the death of genuine moral reflection, because it makes it seem as though nothing high-minded in the world can actually exist or be aspired to.

Paul Fussell raises a provocative question in his most acclaimed nonfiction work The Great War and Modern Memory: What happened to the world between 1914 and 1918?
Famous writers of the war, Siegfried Sassoon, Wilfred Owen, and Robert Graves are highlighted, as each in turn contributed to our understanding of the Great War. But Fussell's study is also a grim portrait of the burgeoning modern world, how bureaucratic institutions got their foothold, how form letters found their origins, and how the 20th century's eyes glazed over with bitter irony after The War to End All Wars merely lead to yet more horrifying conflicts.
I highly recommend this work to anyone fascinated by history, war, and literature --they are all here in remarkable if sometimes tragic details in The Great War and Modern Memory.
THE GREAT WAR AND MODERN MEMORY is not a military history, it's a cultural history of World War One from the British soldier's point of view.
Fascinating, and nabbed author Fussell the National Book Award back in 1975.
With chapters like "Oh, What a Literary War" and "Soldier Boys," Fussell, an American WWII combat veteran, showed the world that there was more to the Great War than the suffering it entailed -- he maintained that the war ushered in the Twentieth Century, and proved his point brilliantly.
By the author of Class: A Guide Through the American Status System.
One of the most important books I've ever read.
I found upon finishing this book that I had a shopping list as long as my arm of books mentioned in these pages that I want to go on to read.Fussell's central argument seems to be that WW1, more than any other war, was a literary war, both in the way that those who fought in it used literature as a tool to help them understand what was happening, but also in the way that we ourselves have to come to remember it.
Most people's impressions of the Great War have not come from the history books; they've come from the literature that came out of the war - from Graves and Sassoon and Owen.
Before tackling Paul Fussell's book, it's useful to understand that this is in no way a conventional history of World War I.
Readers who are already well read on WWI history and WWI era authors will gain the most from "The Great War and Modern Memory;" those looking for an introduction to both WWI and the war's literature may first want to look elsewhere.
For newcomers the best benefit of Fussell's book is that it will find them searching for the original works he analyzes; since many are in the public domain, there is a real treasure trove readily available online.
Over the years I have read quite a bit of history, but never a book quite like this one - it is thoroughly unique.
It brings together poetry, literature, language, and all sorts of events that changed our way of speaking and thinking of war forever.
Take a little time to read about Mr Paul Fussell and you will understand how he was able to accomplish what I have described.
It proved a solid foundation to pursue the poetry and fiction that came from those horrible years, and also a foundation for works that dealt with geopolitical and military events.
Paul Fussell's landmark study of WWI remains in my mind as fresh and gripping today as when I read it many years ago.
Exploring the work of Siegfried Sassoon, Robert Graves, Edmund Blunden, David Jones, Isaac Rosenberg, and Wilfred Owen, Fussell supplies contexts, both actual and literary, for those writers who most effectively memorialized WWI as an historical experience with conspicuous imaginative and artistic meaning.
Fussell is one of the finest writers I have encountered in my years of reading, a pantheon that includes Orwell, Didion, Manchester and others.
I learnt more about WW1 from this book than almost any other.
For example, 'the fallen' quickly became 'the dead', 'chargers' became 'horses', clearly showing the men's utter disillusionment and contempt for euphemism.
It was a literal, as well as ideological, shift.There's lots more but I must re-read the book to elaborate.
I last read it about 1983, so you can see how powerfully it has affected me.
The sad thing is, I have noticed that the outpouring of grief on every news bulletin now refers to the dead soldiers as 'the fallen' in Afghanistan.
A book that is very special to me, autographed by Paul Fussellhimself during a two-hour class meeting of only three people.My professor and Fussell were old friends, and both wereextraordinary as teachers. It was an intense, fascinatingexperience, and I have treasured this fine book ever since,
The Great War as the genesis for all modern artistic/critical sensibilities. Loved the beautiful web of history, reporting, literature,and influence.
Wade Davis said of Fussell's masterpiece: "Every page is a revelation." He was right on the mark.
What Fussell does is to lead us into the special horrors that was trench warfare in WWI and try to explain to us , and himself how humans cope , internalize and respond.The reader should know that Paul Fussell was a junior Army officer in WWII.
. That this book is focused almost exclusively on the British soldier's enrollment in close modern combat and he main reference will be the mostly young officer class who survived, or at least survived long enough to publish books and poems about their experience.In nine chapters he will explain how combat divides people between those who have been there, and the rest of us.
I shouldn't have to assign this book a star rating.
I'm only giving it four stars because it took me a while to read.
If you read it and gave it less than four stars, you're either much, much, much better read than Paul Fussell on WWI, and so able to contest his argument, or much, much poorer read than Paul Fussell, and capable of believing your bullshit opinion matters more than an scholar who put years of work (and military service) into the creation of this book.
It also wounded 20 million more, turned large parts of Europe into a wasteland, and destabilized the continent’s governments in a manner that would encourage the rise of totalitarian regimes and the outbreak of an even bloodier Second World War. And according to Paul Fussell, the Great War did one other thing: it exerted virtually a controlling influence on how the people of the 20th century would look at war, society, and life in general.The Great War and Modern Memory won a National Book Award for the seamless manner in which Fussell, an emeritus professor of English at the University of Pennsylvania, combined historical analysis of the Great War with literary analysis of the manner in which literature of the time, and specifically 20th-century British poetry of the post-war years, reflected the influence of that war.
Everything is "ironic" about the war - in the Alanis Morrisette usage of irony. That is, he should have looked up the word before using it twenty times in the first 10 pages.
A hugely insightful work, providing a look at how the war has been presented, commemorated and eternalised through the work that came after it.
Fussell provides analysis, as well as historical background to a selection of the most famous and relevant pieces of First World War literature.
I found the chapter "Oh What a Literary War" especially interesting, but this book was littered with quotations that are extremely helpful to me in my study.
I encourage anybody who is going to be studying First World War literature in depth to read this text.
The conflict broke out within a cultural framework that had only recently sprung up and was fated soon to vanish, and which expressed itself through two major channels: books and theater.
Literature, poetry and plays became the means by which soldiers understood and expressed their reality.Once he establishes the contemporary backdrop, Fussell then takes readers back to this unique era by stripping away the intervening imprint of World War II.
The Great War, on the other hand, had no similar reference point, and its origin remains a mystery.
Despite being considered a "classic" in the realm of WWI literature, "The Great War and Modern Memory" ought to be retitled "The Great War and The Modern Memory of Sensitive, Artistic English College Graduates", as the book is almost entirely focused on the effect of the war on that particular niche to the exclusion of all else. While I'm sure sensitive, artistic English college graduates found the book cathartic, it really doesn't have much to say to anyone else.
