https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45245.The_Reality_Dysfunction
Mix space battles, zombies, interplanetary smugglers, space pirates, living spaceships, mysterious highly advanced alien race vanished without a trace for no apparent reason, a very lucky guy with a dream, struggling colonists on a newly discovered planet, devil worshiper cults, sentient planets, mercenaries with some serious high-tech body modifications that would make any cyborg in science fiction die of envy, and a lost doomsday device.
Having said this I need to note that this book will test your patience to the limit.
After that exciting scene the plot would switch between great action which kept me on the edge of a seat and yet another slow but oh so imaginative world-building piece.
So far we've had:Awesome:- Humans biologically bonded to technology: Because I can't wait for my own neural link into the internets.- Space colonisation programme, settlers, frontiers, etc.
And I'm not even half-way through.RidiculousThe plots so far: Joshua has found an artifact that may hold the key to the self-destruction of an entire alien civilisation!
The most wanted man in the universe (and a bunch of satanists) are possessed by strange energy things from the dungeon another dimension!
And sexy times!) Joshua is on Lalonde buying wood!
By the time the book hits one third there has been a multitude of uneasy things for the reader to digest.
It’s also clear by this time that Hamilton is only getting started.
Yes, it’s that kind of book.
Looking for a sense-of-wonder fix?
Look no further.
I read Hamilton’s Commonwealth Saga before this, even though it was published later, and it’s clear that Hamilton thrives on this kind of thing.The second half of the book is really where it’s at, with themes like redemption and sacrifice juxtaposed with the despair of the earlier portions.
*sigh*I wanted to like this. I did. And I liked parts of it a lot, many of the ideas were fascinating, several of the characters I really dug. But there were other issues that hampered my overall enjoyment, and they can't be ignored.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
The story just powers through that.I'll address most people's two biggest critiques of Reality Dysfunction.
Humans have split into two groups: Edenists embrace the introduction of biotechnology into the human genome and all the wacky consequences and Adamists stick to mechanical and cybernetic technology.
There is a whole chunk of religious, political and technological interest in the book, but the real story comes in the form of an unknown invader that is threatening first a planet in the Confederation and then perhaps even beyond.I'm very excited to continue onto the next volume, The Neutronium Alchemist.
Wow, what to say about this book.
The first 1/4 almost is like running through a valley of quicksand, but I swear the momentum is worth it.
This book requires stamina but if you're into sci-fi is worth the effort.
The book definitely gets going at a certain point because you latch onto characters that are fascinating, and once the mystery behind the "invaders" becomes more evident you really can't wait to see what happens, or at least I couldn't.
Anyway, for hard Sci-Fi people this is a great recc.
Off to book 2!
"TL,DR. There are very few SF stories that justify more than 120,000 words."- Jo Walton's blog on Hugo Nominees: 1998 Jo Walton is the best sf books reviewer extant (IMO), as an author she is no slouch either. Unfortunately for her The Reality Dysfunction  is the exception that proves the rule, this is one of the "very few SF stories" that she is talking about. Certainly a book this magnitude, clocking on at over 1,200 pages, is dissuasive for many people. If you are interested in reading this
Of course nowadays long novels are in vogue, especially for fantasy novels, clearly books this size is exactly what a lot of readers want.The Reality Dysfunction is Peter F.
Any way, it is not about zombies, there are no zombies in The Reality Dysfunction (I can't speak for subsequent volumes at this point but I doubt the zoms will show up), but I now understand the oversimplification.As he is working on such a huge canvas Hamilton takes time to setup his pieces, worldbuilding, characters developing (so damn many of them), and meticulous plotting.
I like trash and Hamilton writes the best trash. so elaborate. the dead are coming back to possess the living except it's all science fictional! great world-building. I love world-building when the world being built gets destroyed. in this book, that's a bunch of worlds. plus some cool but corny but still cool sex scenes. Hamilton sure likes his sex scenes. I guess we have that in common.
vai: satanism, exorcizări, crime, violuri, torturi, (view spoiler)[ sufletele morților care tânjesc și zbiară fără încetare după senzațiile lumii fizice (hide spoiler)], mercenari amplificați fizic și genetic, lupte spațiale, lumi noi și specii extraterestre inteligente; e destul de dificil să ții pasul cu ritmul acțiunii și complexitatea universului creat de Hamilton.
De exemplu, îl avem pe "fermecătorul" căpitan Joshua Calvert căruia nu-i poate rezista nici o femeie și care iese întreg din orice situație, Syrinx, căpitanul șoimului-de-vid Oenone (și a căror legătura este una dintre cele mai emoționante și minunate creații din toată cartea), Ione Saldana, Lordul Ruinelor și coordonatoarea Seninătății și...
I wanted to get invested from the sheer length of the novel and come out the other side, saying, "Wow, that was fantastic." Just because I'm not doesn't mean that the novel wasn't worthwhile, it just means that the negative qualities of it managed to outweigh what was good.Let's face it.
It was interesting.I would have thought it was more interesting at half the total size, too.Maybe I'm just overcritical and grouchy, but I really got tired of reading this novel in sections and just prayed for my favourite characters to come back.I think I got spoiled because I had read Leviathan Wakes long before I picked this novel up.
Peter Hamilton is probably my favorite SF writer when it comes to world building and action.
After creating this very high-tech universe, a supernatural element is introduced to the story (I highly recommend that anyone interested in this series avoid reading any plot synopses on the books).
While this is not primarily an action story, when it does first hit at around 200 or so pages in, it is some of the most enthralling I have read.
Only Neal Asher has come close to matching Hamilton in conveying the kind of kinetic, over-the-top action contained in this story.
Re-read because I own the two following installments in the series, but couldn't remember much about "The Reality Dysfunction" (apart from the fact that I enjoyed it heaps) as I read it back in 2000...maybe 2001.What we've got here is super-advanced technology featuring sentient starships able to give birth to other starships.
(Art by Paul Chadeisson)The first twenty chapters or so are equally divided between space & starships and the surface of the planet Lalonde which is some kind of tropical rainforest paradise far from being hyper-technologically advanced.
Another group, the Edenists, has a different kind of technology that is organic.
This bond allows them to share thoughts and feelings inside their own heads, without speaking, and to see through other people's eyes.
The distinction between the two groups is essentially religious; they trade and coexist more or less peacefully.The plot of the book revolves around a new planet, Lalonde, which is being settled under a Dutch East India Company-esque scheme.
However, an evil force appears on the planet and begins to take over villages and people in a mysterious way.
The best thing about this book was the world that he built within.
The story and the characters are almost irrelevant and forgettable compared to the universe within.The book is very difficult to keep things straight for the first couple of hundred pages as the cast is immense.
Hamilton treats the reader to an incredible chapter that was Kinetic and exhilarating in which we see the birth of a new starship.
I almost skim read large portions of the last couple of hundred pages.I am a huge good fan of Peter Hamilton, he is one of my very favorite authors.
And his sex scenes, gratuitously introduced whenever he feels the action is flagging a bit, make signally unpleasant reading.
The dozens of subplots twist and turn all over the place, and if the outcome of no scene is ever in doubt, Hamilton still manages to spring a surprise or two to keep us interested.But all these are just self-justifications, really.
I consider myself a literary gourmet, and this book is a bit like junk food--tasty in a crude way, unwholesome and empty of real nourishment.
But some of them do stand out, and the story weaves around them.Few characters which I liked in this book are1.Joshua CalbertHe is a star ship captain, and makes his living by scavenging artifacts of a race which has been destroyed thousands of years ago.Also lady luck tends to favor him a lot as he always manages to find something unique.We don't get much back ground story as regards to him which was a big surprise for me.2.Quinn DexterHe is a convicted criminal who has been sentenced to public duty for a period of 10 years, and as part of that he heads to the planet La Londe.Unknown to the authorities are the fact that he belongs to a satanist cult and has powerful sensors hidden in his body.He uses both of these weapons to full extent, and unleashes a dangerous thing on the confederation.3.LatonHe is an edenist serpent who has been hiding on La Londe for a long time, he is obsessed with immortality and will leave no stone upturned to achieve it.2.TechnologyIt's 26th century and humanity is spread across hundreds of world.
The word "epic" was created for books like this.
Clocking in at 1100 pages, this is only part 1 of a trilogy that consists of two more similarly sized volumes.
I thought at first that the author might just need a really good editor, especially since the first half dozen chapters kept introducing entirely new settings and characters.
Despite the massive page count, it never seemed wordy and it certainly never dragged.
It may have helped that I flipped back and forth between this and other books instead of trying to devour this in one go, but I never got tired of the story and am eager to start volume #2.
Thanks to Graham loaning me a copy, I learned that many of the books I had previously enjoyed, we actually quite weak and 2 dimensional by comparison.A much longer book than I would normally read (especially considering the whole trilogy is around 4500 pages) but I would would been happy if it had continued to be twice the length.Character development is great, and a good background is even given to people whose play only a small role in the plot.
The technology is interesting and creative, but almost always serves to fuel the plot rather than to show off the authors imagination.Following this book I have continued to read just about every other book Hamilton has written, and loved them all....
Acum că am terminat pentru a treia oară această carte pot zice liniștit: este la fel de bună ca atunci când am citit-o prima dată și a doua oară!!!
Deși este cam contestată pe internetul românesc, din cauza includerii unor elemente horror și fantasy, pentru mine este una dintre cele mai captivante cărți SF din toate timpurile...
Sfârșitul m-a făcut mai mult decât curios despre ce o să se întâmple mai încolo și, mai ales, cine câștiga la final.
“Disfuncția realității” este prima carte în care deşi nu țin cu vreun personaj, ci cu omenirea în general, nu vreau să aibă un happy end!Recenzia completa pe https://anaarecarti.ro/main/disfuncti...
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Since I read those first, it didn't feel as fresh or unique and since this was a very early novel in Hamilton's career, the writing wasn't as good.
The dizzying caste of characters was too dizzying and I lost insight/connections to several of them.
Maybe there is a larger plan to tie it all together but I am not sure I want to wade through the other 2000 pages to find out.
Some characters good, plot line decent but nothing awesome.I am not sure if I will read the next book, right now I am leaning no but I am definitely on the fence.
Actually this might be the first big book I ever read in this genre.
so glad I mustered the patience to keep reading this book.
Actually I felt that the writer is going somewhere big.
Mystery of life and universe big OK?
It is, in lack of better words, a highly 'advanced' book.
Hope the metaphor doesn't stink.I don't have much time to actually write a full review of the book and I'm probably not even good at writing thorough reviews but if you like science fiction and adventure, mystery, philosophy, horror, thriller, love stories and originality than, oh man...
Please read this book.
Unfortunately The Night's Dawn trilogy is a huge, festering shamble where a few nuggets of interesting story is drowned in a horribly over-long stream of irrelevant and meandering side- and subplots.
It starts off ok, focusing on just one plotline, which leads up to a rather nice "?" moment, but then it seems like Hamilton lost all his marbles because the story loses all focus and coherence, and the only thing that kept me painfully reading the last 4000 pages was to find out how in the world he would be able to tie everything together in the end (which, regrettably turned out to be a big fizzling anticlimactic Deus Ex Machina disappointment).His male characters have an unfortunate tendency to be rather flat and Mary Sue-ish, and he can't really write female characters at all, but his vivid imagination makes for at least potentially interesting stories IMO.
If you trying to decipher a bunch of techno-babble, without any initial explanation, that may or may not get clarified chapters into the book... This book may be for you.This is what grandparents must feel like when hearing a casual discussion about how VOIP TCP/IP packets are prioritized with next generation networks using IPv6, and the potential social ramifications of packet filtering from ISPs who are owned by content providers.Edit:I would like to add that the story does seem interesting, but I can not get over the disregard to uninitiated readers, especially in the first book of a series.
Warning: this is NOT science fiction, it's Christian fantasy disguised as Radical Hard SF.
It starts out as a fairly ripping space opera with some clever worldbuilding, but then somewhere around page 700, a Satanic ritual conjures forth the souls of the deceased from the Afterlife into our universe.
One of the few books I've ever literally thrown across the room in disgust.
I sold the book back to the used bookstore from whence I bought it, but in retrospect, I deeply regret not keeping it by my toilet so I could tear out pages to wipe my ass with.
Great world building, action packed, stunning concepts and the most beautiful creature-ships ever imagined: the Voidhawks
I love everything that Peter has written, except this old series from 1996.WARNING: includes very graphically described torture and rape and mutilation (sometimes of teens and children!)Overall this was a very good book, but only half the fun and quality Commonwealth series books.
the dark side of the book is very dark, including graphically described torture and rape and mutilation (sometimes of teens and children!
readers do not need to be subjected to such graphic detail of the evil-gore, and certainly not of children.I recommend this book BUT BE WARNED to just SKIP PAST the truly unnecessary scenes of child mutilation and abuse.
(The two big factions of humans are the Edenists, who are telepathic and use a lot of biotechnology, and the Adamists, who generally refuse these things for religious reasons.)I’m completely fine with consensual sex, but the prevalence of sexual coercion and rape was too much.
Maybe it’s believable that sexual violence and coercion would be so common and apparently unpunished by the law in 600 years, but I would hope humanity could do better.There’s also the fact that (with the exception of one bad guy) homosexuality seems to not exist, even among the Edenists who lack religious objections.
Quinn Dexter, just a punk if you will, is soon in the middle of taking over the planet of 20 million people.
Having found the dark brother he starts taking over people by a type of possession, or sequestration as the off planet citizens call it.The dark brother can allow souls to come back and inhabit the bodies of their hosts.
He then ruined it with a rambling, juvenile, magical-spiritualistic plot that feels very out of place in said universe.
I didn't feel like there was significant plot movement until well over halfway through.
Then there's the main character, Joshua, who is developed sloppily, and lacks depth -- galavanting around like James Bond -- making women magically swoon and always cleverly outwitting problem situations with flair.
If you like space opera and science fiction that doesn't drip with Christian pseudo-babble and has modern, believable, characters, steer clear.
