https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398925.The_Summing_Up
Summing up, W.
Somerset MaughamThe Summing Up is a literary memoir by W.
Somerset Maugham, written when he was 64 years old, first published in 1938.
It covered his life from 1890-1938.
The subject matter includes his childhood, his initial success in theater, his transition from theater to fiction writing, and other miscellaneous topics such as travel, and philosophy.
It is a small book filled with memorable quotes.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و نهم ماه ژانویه سال 1971 میلادیعنوان: حاصل عمر؛ نویسنده: ویلیام سامرست موآم؛ مترجم: عبدالله آزادیان، تهران، فرانکلین، سازمان کتابهای جیبی، چاپ نخست 1343 ، در 272 ص؛ شرح زندگی حرفه ای نویسنده قرن 20 ما.

البته این را باید بگویم که فصل هایی از کتاب بیشتر به سبک و نوع نگارش نویسندگان و روش های تقلیدی آنها از گذشتگان و دستور زبان در نویسندگی و نقد رمان نویسی و نمایشنامه نویسی، پرداخته است و نکتهٔ خاصی برای نوشتن در این ریویو ندارد------------------------------------------------‎تراژدی بزرگِ زندگی این نیست که انسان هلاک میشود، بلکه این است که عشقش تَه کشیده و تمام میشود...
عالی بود این کتاب. تمام آشفتگیهای ذهنی زیبای نویسندهی موردعلاقهم راجعبه تجارب نویسندگیش، ورودش به فلسفه و نظریات مختلف و اعتقادات جالبش که بسیار از شباهت داشتن افکارم بهش جا خوردم. بهنظرم با این همه راهنمایی مفید، این کتاب میتونه مقدمه و آغاز خوبی واسه پیگیری جدی نوشتن هم باشه.
عالی بود این کتاب. تمام آشفتگی‌های ذهنی زیبای نویسنده‌ی موردعلاقه‌م راجع‌به تجارب نویسندگیش، ورودش به فلسفه و نظریات مختلف و اعتقادات جالبش که بسیار از شباهت داشتن افکارم بهش جا خوردم. به‌نظرم با این همه راهنمایی مفید، این کتاب میتونه مقدمه و آغاز خوبی واسه پیگیری جدی نوشتن هم باشه.
He avoids discussion of his personal life, saying nothing about his marriage, his child, his homosexual relationships and very little about his parents, his youth, his initial medical career, or his work as a British intelligence officer during the First World War. The focus of the book is his writing career, but it does not detail his own short stories, plays or books.
Given the wide scope of the author’s own writing, it is not strange that he felt the need to analyze the characteristics and requirements of each.
That the book is as it is is what you would expect given his writing career.
He felt that to give them weight would detract from the important life points upon which he wished to focus.He was always bothered by setting down his thoughts in the first person, considering that he was more comfortable speaking through the characters in his novels."Fact and fiction are so intermingled in my work that now, looking back on it, I can hardly distinguish one from the other."Mixing fact and fiction, Maugham's characters and themes were "created" from many of his acquaintances and experiences.
از اسم کتاب مشخصه که با چه کتابی طرف هستیم؛ حاصل عمر یک نویسنده.
مجموعهٔ ۷۷ مقاله از دغدغههای شخصی و یا موضوعات اجتماعی هست از سامرست موام که همگی با عدد مشخص شدند و عنوان ندارند.
برای من از اون دست کتابهاست که نمیشه یه نفس خوند چون داستانی نیست ذهنم نمیتونه کاملا درگیر محتوا و فضای کتاب بشه و یک دفعه به خودم میام و میبینم ده صفحه خوندم ولی اصلا یادم نیست چی خوندم..
:/ شاید به همین دلیل شنیدن این کتاب رو ترجیح میدم..
من نمونه صوتی این کتاب رو تو سایت ماه آوا شنیدم اون هم با اجرای رضا عمرانی..
برای من از اون دست کتاب‌هاست که نمیشه یه نفس خوند چون داستانی نیست ذهنم نمی‌تونه کاملا درگیر محتوا و فضای کتاب بشه و یک دفعه به خودم میام و می‌بینم ده صفحه خوندم ولی اصلا یادم نیست چی خوندم..
:/ شاید به همین دلیل شنیدن این کتاب رو ترجیح می‌دم..
من نمونه صوتی این کتاب رو تو سایت ماه آوا شنیدم اون هم با اجرای رضا عمرانی..
آپدیت: من کتاب رو به صورت صوتی از ماه آوا شنیدم و بسیار لذت بردم.
لحن اجرا و صدای گوینده تماماً حس نویسنده رو منتقل می‌کرد در حدی که حیف بود کمتر از ۴ ستاره یه این کتاب بدم.
لینک دریافت کتاب از ماه آوا؛http://maahava.com/7F3Q
"In my 20s the critics said I was brutal, in my 30s theysaid I was flippant, in my 40s they said I was cynical, inmy 50s they said I was competent and now in my 60s they say Iam superficial." Maugham lived far too long - into his 90s -but, don't diss Uncle Willie.MOM wrote over 30 (produced) plays, 100 stories, a dozen novels and, somehow, married and fathered a daughter (his sexual screen, needed for any ambivalant youth after the Wilde crise), divorced, and balanced 2 Signifs, kept a lusty sex life and was also a UK spy WW1, and a global traveller while managing a glittering social menu.
If you haven't read : DO.On writing - "It is not truth the writer attains, but merelya transposition of his own personality.
I read this book every few years—and enjoy it more each time. In his early sixties and not knowing how much longer he might live, W. Somerset Maugham decided to set down in The Summing Up not so much an autobiography as his observations about life. He then went on to live another 30 years (born in 1874, he died in 1965 at age 91). Maugham was a keen observer with a “tell it like it is” attitude and a simple style that made him very popular first with the play-going and then with the reading pub
Maugham was a keen observer with a “tell it like it is” attitude and a simple style that made him very popular first with the play-going and then with the reading public.
Maugham was like an anthropologist who sets out to study human nature in all its forms.
He tells a good story, his style is simple, and his insight into human nature keen.
One interesting thing about him is that he wanted to be more than just a writer: he set himself the twin goals of experiencing as much as possible of life (“You only go around once”), and of fully developing his character.
•"For my part I do you not think I’m any better or any worse than most people but I know that if I set down every action in my life and every thought that has crossed my mind the world would consider me a monster.
The unconscious does its mysterious business; and then suddenly springing you might think from nowhere the idea is produced".•"In great cities men are like a lot of stones thrown together in a bag; the jagged corners are rubbed off in the end they are as smooth as marbles.
کتاب صوتی حاصل عمر را با صدای رضا عمرانی از ماه آوا بشنوید؛http://maahava.com/7F3Qکتاب صوتی به سبک ماه آوا
In "The Summing Up", a non-fiction book detailing Maugham's own personal philosophy, I thought I'd enjoy it far more than I did.
He writes at length on God and religion which, despite concluding in favour of atheism to which view I subscribe, I found quite dull as it contained many arguments I've heard and read from various sources over the years.
Maugham is an excellent writer but a biography written by someone else is the best way to go if you're looking for views on his life and work.
Even though I know this book cannot be compared with "Of Human Bondage", I still rated it four stars.
After all, he himself wrote many passages about seediness, sordidness, and even one short incident of a very poor couple living in very poor quarters trying to have a baby etc.
Probably because the era he was living in --he wrote this book in 1930s, his conservatism is probably even considered liberal leaning.
No matter how I love Maugham's style, he cannot be compared with George Orwell in giving people inspirations.I took a hiatus from reading this book.
B. White quoting Maugham's "Summing Up", I came back to this book.
I remember being taken for a drive in a foreign country by a kind lady who wanted to show me round.
Her conversation was composed entirely of truisms and she had so large a vocabulary of hackneyed phrases that I despaired of remembering them.
But one remark she made has stuck in my memory as have few witticisms; we passed a row of little houses by the sea and she said to me: 'Those are week-end bungalows, if you understand what I mean; in other words they're bungalows that people go to on Saturdays and leave on Mondays.' I should have been sorry to miss that."
Един необикновен разказ. За изкуството. За човека. За творчеството. За опита. За философията.За смисъла. И липсата му. За бог. И има ли го? (Едва ли... Но все пак...)За човека. И за хората. За вярата. За живота. За смъртта. За истината. За красотата. За любовта. За добротата.
This book gives you the experience of sitting down with an accomplished old man, and listening as he beautifully explains his life story and the wisdom it gave him.
"Non scriviamo perché lo vogliamo: scriviamo perché dobbiamo.
Possono esserci altre cose, assai più necessarie, a questo mondo: noi dobbiamo liberarci l'animo dal fardello della creazione.
Dobbiamo andare avanti, anche se Roma brucia.
Altri possono disprezzarci perché non diamo una mano a spegner l'incendio, portando un secchio d'acqua; ma non possiamo farci nulla, non sappiamo neanche come tenerlo, un secchio.
Inoltre, l'incendio ci eccita e ci riempie la mente di frasi." (p.
[...] Lo si pretende per molte cose che non lo meritano.
Spesso non è altro che l'omaggio convenzionale che prestiamo alle cose delle quali non abbiamo molta voglia di interessarci attivamente." (p.
„Равносметката” е неговата автобиографична книга, писана през далечната 1938 година, в която Моъм разказва прямо, задълбочено и увлекателно за живота си като драматург, писател, читател, пътешественик, шпионин, атеист, бунтар и вечно търсещ човек.Макар и страдащ от туберкулоза дълги години, той живее на пълни обороти - чете лакомо, пише страстно, пътува постоянно и никога не изпуска нова възможност за приключение.
Онова, което наистина ми харесва в Моъм е ясният му, безкомпромисен, лишен от позьорство стил, винаги изобличаваш и осмиващ човешкото лицемерие.
Научих се да следвам своя път, без да ме е грижа какво мислят за това другите."Из „Равносметката” – Съмърсет Моъм
At was at this crossroads in his own life and the life of the world that he felt the need to sum up all that he knew.‘The Summing Up’ is a blend of material: it is autobiography, writer’s guide, and philosophical treatise.
Late on in the book he writes, “The best homage we can pay to the great figures of the past… is to treat them not with reverence, but with the familiarity we should exercise if they were our contemporaries.” Somerset Maugham has become one of the great figures of our literary past, but when one reads his books his world retains familiarity, though the days he describes have long passed.
Having long misunderstanding as his novel whenever I came across its title in any bookstore or library, I just finished reading this one as his first memoir that may contradictorily intrigue any reader when he/she reads its opening sentence, “This is not an autobiography nor is it a book of recollections” (p.
1) but it’s categorized as such at the back cover and in his ‘Other Works’ list inside, his other memoir being “A Writer’s Notebook”.
Perhaps, this might have been a ground-breaking way of writing a memoir, I mean stating as such he has meant to be differing from the ordinary way of writing this genre especially around during his lifetime of writing career.
Reading it is like sharing a conversation over a brandy with a congenial and intelligent old friend.
For fans of Maugham this is an enjoyable read which provides insight into how much of his personal experience is reflected in his works such as Of Human Bondage and Moon and Sixpence.
While not necessarily agreeing with him on every point that he makes ,I thoroughly enjoyed the conversation and would deem him a person well worth knowing.
Like all his works ,this is extraordinarily well written and lucid.
This requires some experience with his work to be fully appreciated.
Somerset Maugham gives the reader an account of his inspirations for various books, his beginnings, his early successes as well as the way in which said successes impaired his potential to have a wider scope on his surroundings. He tickles us with his travels, and explains his love for plays. He predicts the coming dominance of films and television! :D How awesome. I think this would only interest Maugham's most devoted readers, as it is the man, Mr. Maugham Himself speaking to those who care about him about his intimate relationship with letters.
Uggghh. Why did I willingly read this? It was just awful. The only miracle was that I liked it better than Ashenden. I've only read two, but I have yet to find a Maugham I like. There were some good lines, but only to make up a pointless mish mash. There was some insight, some that was tiresome, and an ample amount of 'get off my lawn.' Reading this was a bad idea.
Now let me begin by admitting that I will give five stars to almost everything this man wrote. But I do believe this book is one for his fans. I think you have to be into Mr. Maugham's style to truly enjoy all the wisdom and insight he offers here.
This was at least interesting (if you love Maugham's novels & plays) until the third part begins, when it devolves into his rambling personal philosophy. Too bad.
قيم وغني ودسم ورشيق هذا الكتاب ولكن يحتاج إلى أجواء هادئة لاستيعابه
He had an amiability of disposition that enabled him in a very short time to make friends with people in ships, clubs, bar-rooms, and hotels, so that through him I was able to get into easy contact with an immense number of persons whom otherwise I should have known only from a distance."This is a very subtle and low-key tribute to the man who shared his life for 30 years – a relationship which survived and outlasted Maugham’s marriage.
Maugham sheds his particular light on literature, art, life, ethics, and philosophy.
At times, he loses focus, but as he says, he doesn't write in a Euclidean manner.
Nonetheless, if you are a fan of his you'll want to read this, as he elaborates on the conditions that provoked his plays, novels, and short stories, and responds to subsequent criticism, within and without.He spends an inordinate amount of time on the inner workings of the artist, writer or otherwise, and some of his ideas are presently-to put it cautiously-not in vogue, and may require a certain allowance on the readers' part.
He appears dogmatic and often cynical, but frequently slips and coins some unbounded and optimistic sentiment worth holding on to.
chuckle-inducing passage from Maugham's description of his grandfather: "An old solicitor, whom I knew when I was a boy, told me that as an articled clerk he was once invited to dine with my grandfather.
My grandfather carved the beef, and then a servant handed him a dish of potatoes baked in their skins.
There are few things better to eat than a potato in its skin, ...
He rose in his chair at the head of the table and took the potatoes out of the dish one by one and threw one at each picture on the walls.
He told me that no one took any notice." p.13
I'm a big Maugham fan and read a first edition of this book. (An accidental find!) My favorite parts were the beginning and the end (the summing up, I guess) when he discusses his opinions on human nature and philosophy. I was hoping that he would talk more about the writing process of his novels, but instead he seemed to focus more on play-writing. Anyway, I thoroughly enjoyed it and loved the last sentence in the book.
Авторът споделя вижданията и своите мисли върху писането на книги и пиеси, а също и наблюденията си и своето мнение за живота, смъртта, изкуството, любовта, вярата, доброто, красотата и още повече. Изключително находчив, проницателен и доста рязък на моменти. Беше ми много интересен, защото отдавна споделям голяма част мислите му, а други ме накараха да видя различна, интересна гледна точка. Книгата звучи много искрено и силно.
