https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44516.Switch_Bitch
What did I just read? WHAT DID I JUST READ???This was NO Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. This was designed for a much, much older and maturer audience. My eyes. Scrub my eyes. This is not the Dahl I remembered. The Visitor  - Oh good Lawd. Where to start. Should I start with how this old pervy Uncle Oswald finds himself alone in the desert and is rescued by a fine Middle-Eastern man (who has a gorgeous wife and daughter) and how the uncle couldn't decide which he'd rather screw? His host's wi
Should I start with how this old pervy Uncle Oswald finds himself alone in the desert and is rescued by a fine Middle-Eastern man (who has a gorgeous wife and daughter) and how the uncle couldn't decide which he'd rather screw?
They are terrible excuses for husbands - they made sure that everything was the same - height, weight, male genitalia, lovemaking techniques (etc) all so they could go swinging without their wives noticing.
They have terrible plans to use this scent on the field, only things go awry.I am never planning on reading these stories ever again.
Naturally, he's best known for his children's stories, like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and James and the Giant Peach, but what you may not know is that he wrote some adult's stories, including the ones in this volume of short stories, that are brilliantly, hilariously dark and fucked up.There is a collection of four stories in this volume.
The answer is fabulously fucked up.In "The Switch," we have two neighbors...one of whom covets his neighbor's wife...he slowly plants a seed in his neighbor's head, and together, they seek to seduce each others' wives without them knowing it.
hey did you know that acclaimed children's author Roald Dahl also had a sideline in dark, pervy short stories for adults?
and I especially especially loved the cruel and fitting ending.3 Stars for the second tale: "The Great Switcheroo"two cheerio my good chap type suburban husbands decide that the best way to spice up their lives is to start sleeping with each other's wives - but without telling those wives.
ugh.3 Stars for the fourth tale: "Bitch"Uncle Oswald is back and he has found an equally pervy comrade-in-arms: the olfactory scientist Henri, who is about to create a scent for women that will cause men to go in a sex-trance, rip off their clothes, and immediately and violently ravish the scented woman on the spot.
The stories have a strong underlying theme of misogyny, lewd humor and dark sadistic sexual fantasies, with stories about predatory seduction, revenge sex, wife-swapping etc.
Oswald decides to repay his host's kindness by planning a tryst with the daughter...."And the beautiful Princess is imprisoned within its walls by her strict and jealous father, King Abdul Aziz, who refuses to allow her the pleasures of masculine company.
Prince Oswald Cornelius decided that he cared not one whit about the beautiful Princess who was held captive in the castle by the jealous King.
Roald Dahl's short stories for adults are amazing, terrifying, creepy, disturbing, sexy, disgusting, morally bankrupt, and well-written. It's an entirely different side of the children's author, one that doesn't get enough exposure. I mean, I'd hate to traumatize children with this writing, but for adults who grew up with Roald Dahl's books, this is a foray into something strange and disturbing and weirdly fun to read.
These stories were great. I had no idea Dahl wrote for adults - but I'm happy I came across some of his stories. This is perfect for a quick, entertaining read if you aren't too easily offended ;)[image error]
This is not Roald Dahl of the children books This is the adult themed Roald Dahl.
Many people gave this collection of short stories 2 stars and less; perhaps they executed YA themes and children stuff or they were shocked that an author like Mr. Dahl would write some crude stories full of sex, lust, adultery, and misogyny.
The stories are well written, some have unexpected twists and some make you wonder an open ending.
We meet Uncle Oswald the world most famous fornicator and his 23 volumes of intimate diaries and we get to read his last diary as is...
And we meet the bitch ...
Very misogynic, quite chauvinistic, mildly entertaining.Four very well-written short stories about "sex" written by a man who very likely had some major mommy issues.
All four stories have something in common: rape, that is perceived by the author/protagonist/rapist as deserved and mutually-consented intimacy.
This is by no means an explicit/graphic novel, as most of the action is implied, however unless I missed some great irony about the book, I found it very strange.
The fact that this man was a children's book author is chilling.
The only somewhat redeeming factor about this book was the author's writing style.
when i was nine years old i picked up a roald dahl from the (school!!!) library that turned out to be Not For Kids and involved a woman murdering her husband by hitting him on the head with a frozen lamb shank, and then serving said lamb to the policeman who came to investigate, thereby destroying the murder weapon. i enjoyed it immensely. i hope this book is like that one.
Original pre-read review, 4/15/2012:This does not sound like the Roald Dahl I remember.
Color me intrigued.After reading, 9/10/2013:So yeah, okay, this isn't the Roald Dahl I remember.
These stories are highly dated, though.
All of the male characters are highly misogynistic, and that's at their best -- many of them are downright rapey.
Uncle Oswald is one of those people that would be absolutely insufferable in real life--a snobby womanizer who is completely self-absorbed--but he is wonderfully amusing as a character to read about.
This goes about as well as you would expect."The Last Act" -- 2 starsDefinitely my least favorite.
SWITCH BITCH is a collection of four short stories of Dahl's.
Apparently, Dahl wrote a lot of short stories involving this character's travels and exploits.
It's not in a thriller sort of way, mind you, but once I read one story and realized the technique Dahl was using to write each story, I found myself a bit hooked, very curious, and rushing toward the end to see what happens.
I guess now I can honestly say that I read Playboy just for the articles.I was quite entertained by Dahl's short stories in this small collection.
Roald Dahl wrote a series of short stories for Playboy, before he got into the brilliant children's books, and here they are.
They're all to some degree about sex, because Playboy, but they mostly avoid wicked bad sexism.
More or less."The Visitor" is a Chauceresque story about a guy who wants to seduce a married lady, or her daughter, whichever, but it's super dark and whom has he ended up with?
It's cool, nothing super special."The Great Switcheroo" is about two guys who hatch a complicated plan to nail each other's wives.
this book was something entirely different than I was used to when it comes to Roald Dahl!
These 4 dark, sexual, but funny stories really showed me a different side of Dahl.First of all, I absolutely love his writing style.
English isn't my native language, therefore it was incredibly pleasant to read this book.The 4 stories; The Visitor, The Great Switcheroo, The Last Act, and Bitch, are all full of dark humour, lots of sex and women, and unexpected plot twists.
I never knew Roald Dahl had such darkness in him, but I can tell you this...
Switch Bitch is a collection of four short stories about sex, connected by the same protagonist, Oswald Hendryks Cornelius, whose hilarious or disturbing adventures were later developed into a delicious novel - My Uncle Oswald. I really recommend both (Switch Bitch and My Uncle Oswald) to adult readers.
I'll tell you something for nothing, Roald Dahl must've been awfy good in bed.
I guess if the book were longer this would probably start to get "old", but four stories is just about perfect."The Visitor":	I heard people talk about this one before I even read it, so when I did, it was an "oh man, it's this one!" kind of feeling.
Well, it's no surprise (after reading many Dahl short stories at least) to learn that Oswald has the rug pulled out from him by the end in a nasty, unforgettable way.
Mr. Trivizas what are you waiting for? Click on the Microsoft Word icon and type away!
Mainly funny but heart-wrenching as well, especially the "Last Act", it is an utterly delightful collection of short stories.
If you haven't read  "Switch Bitch" , some wonderfully sly, bawdy and remarkably well-written entertainment awaits you.There are only four stories in this collection but its well worth reading, especially if you've already read Dahl's "My Uncle Oswald", one of the funniest books on erotic humor I've ever read.
Makes me feel like reading the other book again, to re-acquaint myself with that Victorian lecher of a character.
Bitch  >> Returning to another entry in Uncle Oswald's diary is the story of his acquaintance with Henry Biotte, one who has devoted his life to the study of olfaction.
A wonderful collection of my favorite Dahl storiesThe collection, definitely for adults, is mostly erotic humor, a micro-genre that is in woefully short supply.Here's a sample from "Bitch", my favorite story here.
The protag has been dosed with the world's most potent aphrodisiac:[quote] ...the two of us were millions of miles up in outer space, flying through the universe in a shower of meteorites all red and gold.
I was the Lord of the Universe, scattering the planets and catching the stars in the palm of my hand...Oh, ecstasy and ravishment!
this book was disturbing, morally wrong, cruel, and dark.. although it is one awesome book, it's hard to wrap your mind around it... i couldn't and i still can't believe this guy wrote children's book...
Here’s a relatively common human experience; having the veil of bullshit shrouding the truth behind some childhood concept ruthlessly torn from your eyes, and being exposed to the cruel realities of a world more twisted than a silly straw.  Your only image of Bill Cosby (or Bob Sagat, for the slightly younger crowd) was that of the consummate family man, always there to impart loving wisdom or perhaps slap a little Neosporin on that skinned knee. Then you were introduced to Cosby’s second LP of
The story proper is prefaced by a narrator advising that the ensuing tale is one of the many momentous exploits of his badass Uncle Oswald Cornelius, a figure long-estranged from the family and shrouded in mystery, or, as Dahl describes  “a wealthy bachelor with unsavoury but glamorous habits…the rest was all rumour and hearsay, but the rumours were so splendid and the hearsay so exotic that Oswald had long since become a shining hero and a legend to us all.”  It’s been at least thirty years since the narrator has actually espied Oswald with his own eyes (or perhaps single eye, we never learn a whole lot about this schlub, and I’d hate to jump to conclusions), and quite unexpectedly, a crate containing the 28 unpublished journals of his Uncle, The Cornelius Diaries, are delivered into his safekeeping.
The first and last stories are both based on the diaries of dear Uncle Oswald, a traditional cad that enjoys travel, luxury and women and manages to find himself in a few sticky situations, all of his own making.
The third story is about a woman struggling to move on from her husband's death and looks up an old flame, only to find him a little bitter, with tragic results.
And in all but one the stories end better for the women than it does the men, which sort of makes up for it.
Mankind’s favorite pastime is what draws you into these stories yet it’s Dahl’s excellent plotting and diabolical creativity that keeps you turning the pages.The first story, “The Visitor,” starring the irrepressible Uncle Oswald (never has such a morally repugnant protagonist been such good company) is fantastic.
Strange, funny, and titillating, it keeps you on edge until the good, old-fashioned twist ending.
The next two stories are equally engaging if a little less satisfying (in fact, in a pinch, you might skip the third altogether), but the last, featuring Oswald again, feels thoroughly unique in its sex-farce weirdness.
In my naivete, I assumed that the only Roald Dahl I would ever read would be the canonical works I can remember from childhood.
...so now I have a strikingly different reason to thank him.This volume is comprised of fun little stories about sex, love, sex, and sex.
However, a lot of the humor comes at the expense of women, and oftentimes in ways that sound a lot like rape.
Moments like this were incredibly disconcerting for me as a reader.
But, overall, the stories held my attention, and even made me laugh a little.
What I love about Dahl is that almost all of his stories dovetailed into a neat little ending.
This book is funny and sexy, verging on pornographic and it has restored my love for him absolutely.
What I love about this author is that he can take totally unlikeable characters and somehow that just made the story even more readable?If you like hilarious, bitter, dark, sexy little books about terrible things happening to terrible people, this book is most likely for you.
c: P.S. If you read Roald Dahl throughout your childhood like I did, then prepare to have it completely torn to shreds, ok?cw: suicide and non-consensual sex
Hilariously twisted and just what I would expect from Roald Dahl. It's definitely no children's book but you'll shake your head and chuckle the whole way through!
Bei dem Untertitel könnte man es vielleicht für ein etwas fragwürdiges Geschenk halten, aber unsere gemeinsame Leidenschaft ist nun mal die Literatur und wir versuchen uns immer wieder gegenseitig von Autoren zu überzeugen die wir mögen.
So kam es vor ein paar Wochen nun dazu, dass diese vier erotischen Überraschungen bei mir einziehen durften.Anfangs brauchte ich etwas Zeit um den Humor und Sarkasmus von Roald Dahl einschätzen und verstehen zu können.
Das Ende ist ein Geniestreich und kam für mich so überraschend, dass ich es immer noch feiere.Auch die anderen drei Geschichten sind absolut lesenswert, obwohl man wohl als kleine Vorwarnung dazu sagen muss, dass man es schon mit sehr skurrilen Charakteren und Begebenheiten zu tun bekommt.
"Del mismo modo que una mujer aficionada a los caballos acabará por tener las piernas estevadas de tanto montar, a una mujer muy apasionada los hombros se le redondean curiosamente de tanto abrazar a los hombres.
Se trata de una deformación profesional, la más noble de todas ellas"Relegar la lectura de Roald Dahl a sus historias infantiles me parece el error más grande que pueda cometerse.
Cuatro relatos de lo más ameno, divertido, terriblemente amoral, sorprendente y desconcertante.
Donde Relatos de lo inesperado tenía como eje central historias corrientes con un final que deja al lector a cuadros, en El gran cambiazo el tema es el sexo como motor.
Roald Dahl no estaba bien de lo suyo.
I am a huge fan of Roald Dahl, but this book was a disappointment. I started reading a few pages, but I just had to drop the book after the fourth page because it was so boring. It lacked the mystical feeling that Roald Dahl would bring in his stroies. Maybe this book is one of his adult collection so he has a different writing technique. I guess I am more into his children's collection.
