https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/288644.Q_A
I should mention that this 1-star review is not at all related to my opinion of the movie "Slumdog Millionaire" which I liked much better than the book.
These are a few snippets of this book's review from Amazon by people outside India:"Despite heartrending descriptions of sexual abuse, racism, poverty, homeless and much, much, more in modern India, this is an utterly enjoyable picaresque adventure that is one of the best reads of the year.""..this is an easy and entertaining story that captures much of the essence of this fascinating country.
Q & A = Slumdog millionaire, Vikas SwarupQ & A is a novel by Vikas Swarup, an Indian diplomat.
Over the course of the novel, Ram Mohammed Thomas gives flashbacks of his life to explain to the police how he knew the answers to the show's questions - including the corruption he was faced with and had to overcome.
In 2008, the book was loosely adapted into the multiple Oscar-winning movie Slumdog Millionaire, which features a new main character named Jamal and his brother Salim.
MUST READ! MUST READ! One of the books I've discovered for Serbia, and I'm very proud of doing it much before the movie is made or won the Oscar... This book has that "something" that makes you instantly fell in love with it from first sentence... And you don't forget it ages later... It took quite a time to catch readers' attention in Serbia... Although this book had many editions in Serbia, his publisher completely ignored his second novel, pitty... :(
However, much as I was unimpressed with the movie, I couldn't shake the feeling that there was the kernel of a very interesting story there, and that maybe, just maybe, I might have a good experience with the book.I am pleased to report that I was correct - the book [u:]Q&A[/u:] is far superior to the film.
By contrast, the character of Sunil in the novel is a sweet boy, with no relation to the narrator, who loves films, who doesn't kill anyone, and who does not become hardened by the life around him.
"You are the sum total of your life's experiences"?
This is the book that presents a very young man who has already racked up quite the collection of life experiences, just by experiencing each day of his existence.
Nobody can believe that "someone like him" could have known all those answers.They don't know this young man and what his time in this world has been like.
He endured so much grime, he deserved to have his time to shine!Whatever your opinion of the SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE film, I humbly suggest that your experience isn't complete without Q & A.Thanks for reading.
Really liked this book, surprisingly it was as good as the movie. So, great read :)
Ο Swarup, στο έργο σχολιάζει κοινωνικά φαινόμενα όπως η διαφθορά, η εκμετάλλευση, ο ρατσισμός, κ ακόμα ποιο αποτρόπαια, όπως η κακοποίηση, η παιδεραστία, η πορνεία και η βία σε πολλές τις μορφές.Το χαρακτηριστικό του βιβλίου όμως, που με έκανε να το αγαπήσω, δεν είναι το θέμα του, αλλά η αφήγηση του.
Πραγματικά τέτοια βιβλία για εμένα είναι η απόδειξη ότι η αφήγηση είναι η ψυχή ενός βιβλίου και όχι το θέμα του.
On one hand, I just loved the unusual plot, and could have easily given it 5 stars.
On the other hand, wow, I don't remember the last time I read anything so blatantly homophobic.
Three different male characters, two of whom are clearly identified as "gay", were predatory pedophiles who abused young boys.
A third man was also a pedophile who abused young boys, but at least the author never claimed he was gay.
It's too bad, because this book could have easily made my list of my favourite novels of all time, but the homophobic overtones sort of ruined it for me.
My review is based on the audiobook read by Christopher Simpson, who is absolutely outstanding given his vast array of accents and vocal gymnastics.
I loved the movie but I found the stories in the book far more appealing.
The movie is based on the dynamics from this book, but I wish it used a few more of these stories (while politically, I can understand why they didn’t).
Salim and the host of other good and bad guys and all of their stories will stay with me for a long time.
It’s heavy at times, but a powerful read.
Ας το διαβάσω πριν πεθάνω, κρίμα δεν είναι ;Λίγα θυμάμαι από την πολύ καλή ταινία στην οποία βασίστηκε το βιβλίο, αλλά διαβάζοντας το, βλέποντας ξανά μόνο το τρέιλερ, και διαβάζοντας μια-δυο κριτικές είναι εμφανές ότι είναι αυτό που λέμε loosely based on.
Πήραν την βασική ιδέα και μεγαλούργησαν : η μαγεία της διασκευής, δημιουργώντας ουσιαστικά μια άλλη ιστορία !
Δεν με πήραν ποτέ ένα τηλέφωνο...ΥΓ2 : ήθελα να πάω και στο Ρουκ-Ζουκ πριν καμιά 20αρια χρόνια.
I have rarely been as ambivalent about a book as I was about Q&A. I realized about half-way through that I could put it down, never pick it up again, and not feel any remorse at all. Yet it was just engaging enough to continue reading, and I finished it. I was moderately intrigued throughout, but nothing in it lit a passion in me at all.Basically, I'm glad I checked it out of the library.
Bolna i surova knjiga o detetu koje je prinudjeno da se bori za goli opstanak u okrutnom svetu...Istovrmeno nas uvodi u svet Indije, njenu kulturu i obicaje. Cita se u jednom dahu i definitivno ne moze nikoga da ostavi ravnodusnim. Preporuka.
A book that was suggested to me by many of my friends.I'm sure it would be as fantastic as the movie.
رام محمد توماس " المليونير المتشرد " فتى هندي مجهول النسب يعيش حياة حافلة بالأحداثوالقصص .. يقرر المشاركة في برنامج من سيربح البليون وينجح في الإجابة على جميع الأسئلةرغم افتقاره للتعليم .. ليتم اعتقاله بعد الفوز والتحقيق معه عن كيفية معرفته بالأسئلة ...وعن الخطة التي اتبعها للكسب  تعود بنا الرواية للخلف لطفولة وشباب رام ومن خلال حياته الحافلة نكتشف أجوبة الأسئلة التي طرحت عليه ونكتشف معها حياته البائسة والقاسية يصور لنا الكتاب الهند بكل ما فيها من تنوع ثقافي ,ديني واقتصادي .. وما فيها من تعصب دي
رام محمد توماس " المليونير المتشرد " فتى هندي مجهول النسب يعيش حياة حافلة بالأحداثوالقصص ..
يقرر المشاركة في برنامج من سيربح البليون وينجح في الإجابة على جميع الأسئلةرغم افتقاره للتعليم ..
ليتم اعتقاله بعد الفوز والتحقيق معه عن كيفية معرفته بالأسئلة ...وعن الخطة التي اتبعها للكسب 
تعود بنا الرواية للخلف لطفولة وشباب رام ومن خلال حياته الحافلة نكتشف أجوبة الأسئلة التي طرحت عليه ونكتشف معها حياته البائسة والقاسية يصور لنا الكتاب الهند بكل ما فيها من تنوع ثقافي ,ديني واقتصادي ..
وما فيها من تعصب ديني وانحلال ,تشرد وظلم ..
لنصل للنهاية التي تتحول فيها الأحداث كليا الرواية جميلة بكل ما فيها من أحداث ومعلومات 3.5
Wow. Simon Beaufoy really deserved that Best Adapted Screenplay Oscar.
I didn’t think that Slumdog Millionaire was the Best Movie EVAR!
as some people seem to, but the book is just awful.
Scattered and poorly written, with a narrative that relies on more farfetched coincidences than a cracked-out Dickens novel, Q&A also manages to make its protagonist completely unsympathetic, and its romance entirely unromantic.
If you loved Slumdog, this will merely taint your appreciation of it.
Though I guess it’s interesting to see how the same concept can be taken in two wildly different directions—one that’ll make people hand out Oscars, and one that’ll make them want to mimic Oscar the Grouch.
Rất lôi cuốn, rất giật gân, rất dữ dội. Tình tiết nhanh và hấp dẫn. Nhiều thông tin thú vị về lịch sử, xã hội Ấn Độ. Và trên hết là cách cho ra đời quyển sách này của tác giả. Một người viết tận tâm.
Story of a tiffin-boy who plays and wins the biggest game show on the planet and becomes a Millionaire. Each chapter has been crafted beautifully. Recommended.
I saw the movie made from this when it was on at the cinema - Slumdog Millionaire - and I thought it was a clever premise, although overly graphic in some respects.
The book is just as clever, although different to the movie, because of course movies always change things.
The book is less descriptive of disturbing scenes than the movie was graphic.It was a very interesting read - I liked reading about the different places that Ram Mohammad Thomas lived and worked, and seeing how chance encounters gave him the knowledge to be able to answer 12 random questions on a quiz show - highly unlikely, but still fun to read!
★★★★★انا ماشفتش الفيلم -مش بشوف أفلام اصلا- بس مظنش اني محتاجة اشوفه، الكتاب رائع بما يكفي.حاجة تاني حبيتها جدا انه بيشرح كتير جدا عن الهند، ومعلوماته بتتكلم علي كل حاجة من السنيما هناك لحد الأكلات المختلفة.بصراحة بيبهرني جدا الكاتب اللي مش بس بيكتب قصة حلوة لا كمان بيحط فيها معلومات كتير فبيخليني اتسلي واستفيد في نفس الوقت
Swarup's novel is obviously flawed & has its shortcomings, but that shouldn't take away anything from the credible effort he has put into his first novel & he retells the age-old tale of the triumph of the perennial underdog in the modern backdrop of a popular quiz show.I particularly liked the style of narration - how it switches effectively between non-linear narration in flashback mode at the start of every chapter & reverts to the present tense towards the end as the protagonist Ram Mohammad Thomas (shades of 'Life of Pi' in his name) goes on to explain how he happens to know the answer to every question he's asked in the game show.Characterisation is not the strongest point of this novel, given one might happen to lose count of the different characters introduced throughout on account of Ram's numerous experiences.
For this alone it is an amazing read.I found one or two aspects of the plot a little contrived - but then, we're talking about a plot where the unlikely hero wins a billion rupees on a game show!
The pace is quite quick for such a substantial book, but the structure was, I thought, just a little repetitive.
Only a little.
There are, however, no detailed sex scenes (not the same thing as *no* sex scenes) and minimal use of foul language.In the end, I call this a wonderful read, which I was unable to put down until I'd finished.
This sort of thing tends to bother me quite a bit and I just can’t get past it.Let’s review specifically what has turned me away from finishing this book:1)	In the vignette for the opening question, the hero’s childhood best friend is obsessed with film star Armaan Ali, who has recently been featured in the gossip rags for a very public break up with his co-star.
When a young priest arrives, the hero spies on him and observes homosexual pornography stuffed in his mattress, men dressed in leather and chains (and riding motorcycles!) showing up at all hours of the night, and cocaine use.
Một câu chuyện tàn khốc, đẹp đẽ một cách đầy đau thương!Phim điện ảnh này đã biết tiếng từ lâu nhưng chưa có dịp xem, truyện cũng chưa có dịp đọc.
Không phải vì nội dung hay cảm xúc tương tự, mà vì tính tàn khốc của tầng lớp đáy xã hội sao mà khốc liệt giống nhau đến vậy.
Cảm động có, đau lòng có, tàn khốc có, đoạn nào cũng làm mình ứa nước mắt cả.
Chưa từng đọc bộ nào có nội dung lạ đến vậy, lấy trò chơi giải đố Ai là triệu phú trên truyền hình làm nội dung xuyên suốt cả bộ truyện.
4,5*
Anh đã liên tiếp vượt qua 12 câu hỏi trong chương trình Ai là tỷ phú và trở thành người thắng cuộc đầu tiên.Trớ trêu thay, anh lại bị bắt chỉ vì chiến thắng, vì có quá nhiều tiền, vì không có địa vị xã hội.
Những tưởng anh ấy sẽ phải kết thúc số phận thảm thương ở trong nhà tù lạnh lẽo thì may mắn một lần nữa lại mỉm cười với anh!Ram quả thực đã vượt qua nó đầy bình tĩnh và mạnh mẽ như một anh hùng vậy!Mình rất phục anh ấy ở điểm đó.
But when his lawyer asks him to explain how he knows the answers to those twelve questions, he takes her on a wild ride consisting of stories from different periods in his life, from the day he was found abandoned at a church to his days as a tour guide at Taj Mahal to only a few days before the quiz show.
Each story contains an explain as to how he could possibly know the answer to each question.Oh god.
Poor, uneducated orphan kid wins a billion rupees (About $20 million USD) on a game show.
- Too predictable, you knew he wins the billion rupees from the beginning.
About halfway through the book, I was like "I bet his "lucky" rupee has "heads" on both sides, etc, etc.- This teenage kid, kills people at will, robs people at will, has sex with underage prostitutes, is a fraud and liar, had no problem finding work or money, and guess what he wins a billion rupees!
Aside from this bare bones outline, the book and movie are really two entirely different stories made up of almost entirely different details.Q & A is definitely not for the thin-skinned/weak-stomached.
Practically any and every bit of human suffering imaginable is found within its pages: murder, rape, molestation, pedophilia, abuse, child labor, prostitution, suicide, theft, corruption, poverty...the list goes on and on.
Setting it aside really wasn't an option until I finished the last page.
تتسلسل أحداث الرواية في شرح إجابات توماس عن الأسئلة الثلاثة عشرة المقدمة له في برنامج من سيربح المليون ، حياته مزيج من الأحداث الدرامية التراجيدية التي يستحيل أن تتكرر مرتين مع شخص آخر و في مكان غير الهند ..
يتبادر إلى ذهن القارئ أن توماس قرر الاشتراك في البرنامج ليجرب فرصته في الابتعاد عن حياة التشرد التي يحياها ، لكنه في النهاية يُفاجأ بالتحول الدرامي لأحداث الرواية ، توماس قرر الاشتراك فقط لينتقم ..
ينتقم مِن مَن ، و لماذا ؟ لن أحرق أحداث الرواية لكنني بالتأكيد أوصي بها و بشدة .
رواية سؤال وجواب للمؤلف والدبلوماسي الهندي فيكاس سواراب تحكي قصة فتى مجهول الوالدين يدعى رام محمد توماس - وذلك يرمز لانتمائه للأديان الثلاث الهندوسية والإسلام والمسيحية - يشارك في مسابقة من سيربح البليون وينجح في الإجابة عن جميع الأسئلة بنجاح رغم أنه ليس متعلم ولا مثقف. والسر في قدرته على كسب الجائزة أن كل سؤال تتعلق إجابته بموقف مر عليه في حياته البائسة. الرواية سهلة وسلسة وممتعة وتترابط كل أحداثها بذكاء وتشويق. وقد تفنن الكاتب في تصوير حياة البؤس والشقاء في مساكن الفقراء بما فيها من جريمة وانحراف ومغامرة ونحس وحظ. تم تحويل هذه الرواية إلى فيلم اتطلع لمشاهدته قريبا.
