https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50803.Velvet_Angel
As this is the end of the Velvet saga I will be doing a series review first and then a short review for book 4 so if you’re interested in this historical romance series ignore my other individual reviews and read this consolidated one.****************** SERIES REVIEW  “You’ll love only once in your life. You’ll take your time in giving your love but once it is given, no power on earth – or hell – will break that love.” I wish there was a Velvet saga boxed set on GR because overall I give this se
As this is the end of the Velvet saga I will be doing a series review first and then a short review for book 4 so if you’re interested in this historical romance series ignore my other individual reviews and read this consolidated one.******************
I won’t deny that each individual book has its faults (actually, a LOT of faults) but from a general/overall POV, this saga embodies a lot of aspects of what makes historical romance so appealing to me.Just what is it about these Montgomery brothers?
Book 4 is the conclusion to the Velvet saga and the story of the youngest Montgomery Miles and his romance with the daughter of his family’s enemy, Elizabeth Chatworth.
At least these men are consistent about having no common sense if they get jealous or think their pride has been insulted.I think my favorite part of this was just catching up with the characters from the first 3 books and seeing them all again.I did have some issues with Roger's story in this.
Anyway, my problem was how it panned out in the end (view spoiler)[ I wanted to see Roger redeemed, but the whole buddy buddy thing with Miles in the end was beyond absurd.
The redemption should have been more sober with no side love story for Roger.
I may have not loved it, but it was a worthy ending to a series of books I first read in high school and revisited so many years later with high hopes.
If you hated the first one then the rest will probably not be your cup of tea, even if the heroes do improve from the douchenuggetry that was Gavin Montgomery.This saga is composed of 4 books corresponding to four different brothers, all knights of the realm of king Henry VII in Medieval England.
Feifei and I commented during our buddy read that these books have the most boring, sucky, "MEH" endings ever.
Elizabeth is the most unbearable and antipathic heroine, and thanks go to her that the story is realy bad for me.
Con este libro empecé, allá por el año 1997/98, a leer literatura romántica "seria" y no los Deseo, Barbara Cartland y Violena que consumía desde hacía años.Me lo prestaron y me volví loca con los Montgomery.
Tardé muchos años en poder leer la serie Velvet (o Audaz, en su traducción al castellano) completa y más aun el resto de las historias de este clan.
y tres, que los personajes no tienen muy en claro sus POV, es todo más bien una historia relatada en acciones con pocos flashes de los pensamientos de los protagonistas.De los cuatro hermanos, Miles es el que siempre me gustó más.
I hated this when I read this because the hero Miles had a lot of bastard kids with lord knows how many peasant women. That was just so effing yucky. That just ruined the romance for me. I'm sorry but a group of bastard kids does not equal romance for me. I enjoyed the novel Highland Velvet, in this series but when I had read that the heroine in Velvet Song was plain and that the hero was short I didn't bother to read that one.
Giving a book one star says a lot for me and I guess I am making a statement.
On page 19 of this book it reads -"I will grow so dirty I will look like a Nubian slave and my hair will crawl with lice ..." Pretty unacceptable that 1.
author wrote this line and 2.
Still in a book after original print date of 1983.I wanted something to make me forget issues.
This certainly didn't do it and really, I'm soured on the author.
What I also find discouraging is that when I went to look for an author website to contact author and drop a note, there wasn't one.
I'm so wishy-washy with books.
What I will accept from one book, I can't tolerate from another.
I usually like this author.
Some of the first romance books I read were by Jude Deveraux, but I wasn't and am still not fond of this book.
But of course the hero can't help that women like him so.
And the heroine, don't even get me started on her.
Come on now, my young daughter has put up better fights over what she wanted to wear to school than the heroine did to protect her "virtue" from the hero.
I mean, sure, he wanted to prove to her that the Montgomery weren't such bad people but for a guy who claims to love and respect all women, where was the respect for Elizabeth when he refused to let her go home?
His relationship with his son was soo adorable.There is one character in this story I feel deserves recognition and absolution: Roger Chatworth, Elizabeth's oldest brother.
He deserved his own story and the love he was deprived of--which was why I was soo disappointed in this section of the book when it comes to Christiana.
She had to learn how to defend herself against these barbarians, because of this, she made a vow to herself to never trust men and to hate all men.years later she is taken captive and given to Lord Miles Montgomery, he is known as the local playboy who rumor has it he has fathered many bastards.
She swears worse than a sailor man, she is full of spunk, and sassiness that had me laughing out loud at times.Lord Miles tries to tear down the walls around Elizabeths heart and get her to trust him and love him.
There are four Montgomery books. All of them about the 4 brothers and the women they marry. I like the way Jude Deveraux wrote about all of them.Funny how Elizabeth Chatworth changed her tune about the Montgomery brothers.
Je suis certaine de l'avoir lu. Mais je n'arrive pas à me souvenir de l'histoire. Vu qu'il n'est plus dans ma bibliothèque, j'en conclus que je n'ai pas trop aimé.
This book is as not bad so I think my rating has to stay with a three. There were parts where the characters were just too hokey and immature. That being said she was a young girl so maybe to be expected but it was pretty trying on my nerves at times. This author has better books than this so I would seek out those before this one.
Miles was actually the mysterious one of the Montgomery brothers.
And he was determined to show Elizabeth Chatworth that the Montgomerys were not evil as her brother Roger instilled in her to believe.
I felt his redemption should have been more with the Montgomery's tolerating him now because Miles' married his sister and him continuing to prove to them that he is sorry and has changed into a better man.I enjoyed seeing previous characters come back.
But at times it still felt like a chore to read this novel.
I first read this book in high school and loved it then.
So I decided to reread it and see if I still enjoyed it as much as I did when I was in my teens.The short answer: yes!I must identify subconsciously with Elizabeth at some level, because I just really like this book.
All I know is that I remembered most of the plot, and I still couldn't put the book down.
I read it in one session.I don't know if some women will be ok with the plot device used to keep them together, but I just love the interaction between Miles and Elizabeth, and I wish I could follow them passed this book and into their future.
I haven't read a Montgomery book for years until this. The story was just okay, but the way Jude put the Montgomerys together made the entire novel more fun! It's like catching up with old friends. LolAnyway, Jude Deveraux remains to be one of my favorite historical romance authors of all time. I'd love to read about the story of that present generation Montgomery girl (and Taggart guy) she mentioned in the epilogue, but I still haven't figured out which book that is yet. Help please! Haha
This is the second worst thing I've read from Devereaux. I had hoped that the Lady Trilogy was only a fluke, but now... I'm suddenly regretting having bought so many of her books. I've never had buyer's remorse over literature before. So unfortunate.
The ending seemed so rushed compared to everything else. And Elizabeth and Miles’ Baby was never mentioned again after their return from France. I have liked Deveraux’s books in the past but this one just really missed the mark. There was nothing really great about it.
ugh i can't really absorb her writing (sigh)okay the plot is somewhat interesting, and somehow got an idea as for i've read velvet song before it---so yeah, my rating says it all.
14 leopardů rodu Montgomeryů  s.
67 lvy rodu Montgomeryů  s.
179 tři lvi  Bylo by dobré to ujednotit.s. 132 Gavin věznil Chatwortha jenom proto, aby ti poskytl trochu času a tys mohl propustit lady Elizabeth na svobodu  Takže jeden bratr Montgomery vězní jednoho sourozence Ch, aby druhý bratr Montgomery mohl propustit sestru Ch na svobodu?
Dává to smysl?Navíc s.
Scéna, kdy Miles zabil pět medvědů a „měl u sebe jenom meč a malou dýku“ a pes tři z nich přitáhl, protože ho Elizabeth poslala zjistit, co Milese tak zřídilo.
Navíc ho našla uprostřed ničeho, protože měla tušení...
It reminded me a lot of a sweeping historical adventure like Outlander, complete with big swaths of time when the couple is apart (and not necessarily sad to be so).
But like the Outlander series, I won't be reading more of this quadrilogy, and I will admit that I skipped a lot of the last third of this book.
I just didn't care about the adventure in France (again, hello, Outlander series), but I did listen to the epilogue.
But it was written well and if adventuring in 16th century England and Scotland were more my thing, then I would be more inclined to read the 3 preceding novels.
I was really happy with Elizabeth, who maintained a stance nearly half-way through the book, and didn't waiver.
Unfortunately when she did change, she did so too fast and for no discernible reason other than the one she gave which was not believable, at least to me.
Otherwise, I really enjoyed the tying together of actions seen in other books with Miles' story.
It was good to see what was happening between Miles and Elizabeth from their own perspectives, instead of their brothers'.
Well done and I suspect not easy to write about one or two things in other books in the series and then put them into context here.
I first read this book in my teens so I was curious what I would think about it now, after years and years :D (of experience and romance novels under the belt). I confess I liked it quite a lot. My main problem with it was that at about the 70% mark, the plot turned a bit ridiculous, in my opinion. I would have been more than happy for the storyline to continue in the "serious" manner it was written before, without the overly dramatic actions of the last part. But overall, Miles and Elizabeth were a cute couple.
Short Review:Book started great, Elizabeth was a lot more likeable than Bronwyn, although they both shared an intense dislike/hatred for what would end up being their partners. My bone to pick is how Roger, who has undoubtedly been a villain, got a happy ending. There was no major challenge for him, (in my opinion,) that he overcame, and so, could justify him finding true love. It felt very inorganic and left a sour taste in my mouth. Otherwise, great end to the series!
I found this series by accident and was happy I did.I was sick for the whole week between Christmas and New Year. I downloaded all four of the books and listen to them as I lounged in my sick bed.I enjoyed all of them pretty well. They are not masterpieces, but fun and easy to listen to.The last one is the one with the most fluff, but they kept me sane as I sniffled and coughed.If you like historical romances, you'll like these.
"it was ok", seria la descripción exacta. Nada destacable. Me embolan bastante que el prota haya sido tan joven. Me aburrió bastante las idas y vueltas de ellos, la trama de ella de odiar y temer a los hombres (ok se entiende pero ni ganas de leerlo). No me gustó que el hermano haya tenido un final feliz (WTF). truchisima la escena donde todas las protas se unen y salvan... Bua.
If I could have given this book 0 stars (and still have them counted towards overall rating), I would have. This book was truly atrocious. The characters were tstl, the plot was pointless, the grammar and sentence structure was grating. And honestly, for such a short book, it dragged on and on.
Great suspense & actionI loved this one, stayed up until 2:30am because I could find a place to stop! Just as I thought I figured out the plot, it would take a turn. As in all great reads good triumphs evil!
A tak ostal štvrtý brat, aby si našiel manželku. A aby to nebolo také jednoduché (lebo to u Jude nikdy nie je), aj Elizabeth je tvrdohlavá až hrôza a navyše je z rodu nepriateľského.A zazvonil zvonec a rozprávke je koniec.
Amazing book...very intence...at the end it felt like I read 2 books.
