https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3764789-the-king-s-confidante
I actually found this really short, sharp and sweet. It was really fast paced, I personally thought. I've always been fascinated with Thomas More and his family, especially his "favourite" daughter , Margaret. I really enjoyed Jean Plaidy's writing style, her narration moved smoothly from Thomas More, to Margaret. Definitely an interesting family. Oh, and I liked how Plaidy portrayed Wolsey.
St. Thomas’s Eve, republished as The King’s Confidante, is a story of the life of Sir Thomas More – scholar, lawyer, councilor to the King and ultimately Chancellor, after the fall of Wolsey.
Henry VIII had much respect for Sir Thomas More, and at first was amused by his honesty and integrity, but soon learned that More would stand in the way of his divorce from Katherine of Aragon.This novel is the story of a happy family that continually grows as adopted children, step-children, spouses and grandchildren, most of whom live in the household, flourish under More’s love and devotion for learning.
This was a pleasure to read about Sir Thomas More, a notable figure among the prolific Tudor court of Henry VIII.
This novel does not focus on Henry VIII, it follows Thomas More's personal life as he marries, has children, remarries and becomes a grandfather.
We hear about the problems with Catherine of Aragon to the "Frenchified" and deformed Anne Boleyn and "The King's Secret Matter".Plaidy seemed to be on a mission to make the novel not read like a book of the Court Life, but truly focused on the travails of this family who struggled to control the way the vengeful court affected it.
For Fortune delights to strike down those who are too high and to raise those who are low; and if we do not anticipate trouble, should it come, we shall face it with greater fortitude".Saint Thomas's Eve takes a step aside from the Palaces of King Henry VIII and his wife trouble, and concentrates on the life of one his closest friends and confidantes, Thomas More, and his family.
If anyone disagreed with him, he would conjure up tales about that person in order to get them executed - and this is what happened to lovely Thomas More on St Thomas's Eve.The novel traces More's rise from being lawyer, writer and family-man to his reluctant position of Lord Chancellor, and his life following his resignation from the Lord Chancellor's post.
However, I felt Plaidy undertook too much in this book, and as a result, we are left with a very superficial take on Thomas More's life.[return][return]Part of the problem stemmed from Plaidy's attempt to delve into the psyches of too many characters--Katherine, Thomas More, Queen Katherine, Jane, Alice, King Henry VIII, to name some.
The style vacillated between very proper, "thou" and "thees" to more relaxed, improper style; there seemed to be no rhyme or reason between the vacillations.[return][return]Overall, I did not feel this book presented other viewpoints from the Tudor era.
The idea of such a book from More's viewpoint is intruiging--but alas, we weren't given that with [The King's Confidante].
Nam aspernatur saepe harum quo. Libero ut ea sunt consequatur enim quae dolore. Rerum cumque perferendis tenetur laudantium. Ut totam exercitationem molestiae.
The King's Confidante focuses more on More the family man, and his life outside of his role at court, so the title seems a bit of a misnomer.
Regardless, it is an interesting alternate perspective on the man, tempered as it is by the love of a daughter and her inability to see faults in her father.
And it is of course an important perspective, for as much as we've read about Sir Thomas More at court, by necessity his life outside of court would be much different.
This is the first of Jean Plaidy's books I have read and I am definitely eager to read more.
I liked the fairly fast pace and the lack of needless description, allowing the reader to create the images themselves.
I feel like there was a lack of shock and excitement, however that may be because of the age of the book and the fact that I am not accustomed to the writing style.
Conclusively, the book was rather enjoyable and I have learnt an awful lot of history without seeming to try.
I look forward to reading more of Plaidy's work.

Interesting story of the life of Sir Thomas More, focusing on his personal and family life - enjoyable if a bit light on the details of his time at the court of Henry VIII.
After reading this book, I realized that the publishers are re-releasing a bunch of Victoria Holt/Jean Plaidy books with different titles.
The sub-title suggests that the book is about Sir Thomas Moore's daughter.
I wondered how I'd never heard that Meg Moore was a king's favorite.As I read I realized that I'd never heard that Meg Moore was a king's favorite because she wasn't.
The story is really about Sir Thomas Moore told by two of the women in his life: his first wife and his eldest daughter.I continue to be fascinated by the Tudor world but I'm going to be more careful about the books I get.
I liked seeing the old story of Henry the eighth in a different way, specifically from the point of view of the King's counselor Thomas More and the More family.
He raised and educated his daughters and son the same, a very unusual practice for the times.
Yet at the same time he was almost violent in his hatred of those who he saw as heretics.
This fictional book attempts to understand his motives and tell his story.
I would reccomend this book to anyone who likes history, or a good historical fiction.
I think the title of the book is confusing.
The book is really about Thomas More who most certainly WAS the king's confidante.
But the sub-title says the story of the daughter of Thomas More.
Although Meg is a main character, it is very obvious that Thomas is THEE main character, not Meg. I think this is a publishing company trying to capitalize on the rise of popularity of Philipa Gregory and other such authors.
Because it's supposed to be the Renaissance and not the 70s, these issues are very minor.I will certainly be excited to read the others book in her Tudor Saga.
The title of this book is somewhat misleading.
While Meg More's relationship with her father is central to the book; it is Sir Thomas More's life which is the main feature.
Still, this fact doesn't detract from my pleasure in this quaint novel.There is much to admire in the humble Sir Thomas; but the loving family life he held so dear,especially the bond between him and Meg is most admirable.
More's goodness was evident in his dealings with his family, extended family, friends and countrymen.
He strove to always do right and upheld justice even at the expense of his family.
I've always had mixed feelings when it comes to Sir Thomas More.
On one hand, he was a brilliant and forward thinking man, far ahead of his time.
On the other, he represents the very worst of the religiously dogmatic mindset of his era.
Nothing like a man who extols virtues like honesty and kindness, yet doesn't bat an eyelash at burning people at the stake simply for having a different perception of God.That said, the self-righteousness and hypocrisy that I find so offputting is tolerable in this book – certainly not the central focus.
I enjoyed this one, far more than I thought I would.
I didn't know very much about Sir Thomas More before reading this book, but after reading I have come to have a great respect for him and his family.
This was a great novel, allowing readers to see a very different side of Tudor life - the quiet family life in the country.
The More family may have been one of the happiest and most loving families during this time, and it was great to read about them and the quality family life they shared.
This is definitely a Tudor novel that I recommend!
We all unfortunately know the outcome of this story.
What I didn't realize was the warm family life that Sir Thomas Moore would have been perfectly content with.
He got himself tangled in the court of Henry VIII and just never was able to free himself.
In the end, he was presented with the choice to make himself a public hypocrite or go to the chopping block.
He chose the latter, with grace and good humor right up until the end.
Henry could not tolerate one of his entourage publicly putting God above himself (Henry), and for that Thomas Moore was decapitated.
Even before I developed my obsession with Tudor England, I had a keen interest in Sir Thomas More. He’s always been a historical figure that stood out to me – someone that dared to openly defy King Henry VIII, fully knowing the consequences of doing so? That’s an admirable and curious man in my book. So when I realized that Plaidy, one of my favorite historical authors, wrote a book focusing on More’s life, I had to read it.To read the rest of my review, please visit:http://www.dorolerium.com/?p=1164
I became so thoroughly absorbed in this book. It provides a real insight into the character and ideals of Sir Thomas More, the dynamics of his family and household, and a different perspective of Henry VIII's whimsical favour at Court.I feel completely in awe of Thomas More and revere him as a special man within both English and European history.
It sounded better than it actually was. I liked the background on Thomas More, but the times jumped so quickly, I wasn't sure where I was at in the story at some points. And the fact that the summary played up the story of More's daughter, Meg, didn't completely correspond with the book. I've read another book on the More family, and it was better written, and easier to follow.
One thing I find really annoying about some of Plaidy's works is that they are marketed as something they are not. I expected this book to mainly be about the daughter of Thomas More but it really becomes more Thomas' book than Margaret's in my opinion. That is not to say that I didn't enjoy this one. The King's Confidante is one of the better ones but not my favorite.
Quite interesting that this book was supposed to be about Sir Thomas More's daughter - it was more about Sir Thomas More and revealed some interesting things that I didn't previously know. Henry VIII was quite a tyrant.
Jean Plaidy always draws the reader into the story and you become involved with the characters. In the case of this book you really share the anxieties and sorrows of Thomas More's family, especially those of his daughter Meg.
Brilliant. This is Jean Plaidy at her best. It tells the story of Thomas More and his family life. It depicts Thomas as an ordinary family man as a loving husband, father and Grandfather. but he gets caught up with Henry VIII 's shenanigans and that is the tragedy.
I came upon this book in a thrift shop today, and i remembered that I read it in high school. I don't remember its details anymore, but I do recall being struck by Plaidy's portrayal of More's commitment to truth in the face of the king's selfish and pragmatic reign.
Very readable fiction about Sir Thomas More. I enjoyed the focus on his family life, and the dodgy-from-the-get-go portrait of King Henry. I did feel, however, that the depiction of More himself was so sympathetic as to be almost cloying.
A book everyone who is interested in Tudor history must read . Beautiful description of the life & times of Sir Thomas Moore , the author of "Utopia ." His life seems so perfect, one envies this great, wise & simple man !
This is about Thomas More and his daughter during the times of Henry VIII. I'm rating it a 3 because I usually rate everything a four anddon't want to look too consistent... Lynnette
Not really about Margaret More but about Sir Thomas More's life.The first chapter is horribly repetitive and a little bit boring but I enjoyed reading this book and found it informative
A moving depiction of Thomas More and his relationship with his family, especially his daughter Meg. This is a reprint of Plaidy's novel St. Thomas's Eve.
