https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40603730-safe-haven
I am saying this just to explain that I have to love this book because I spent a fortune for it and I should try to entice members to read by coming up with a fair review.Which is a roller coaster.First hundred pages:Typical Sparks.
What I am saying is that there is nothing wrong with Nicholas Sparks' novels.
They are like movie starlets trying to win people by smiling a lot and saying all the right things.But this doesn't mean that I will not drop by a McDonald's outlet anymore.
Opening line:“As Katie wound her way among the tables, a breeze from the Atlantic rippled through her hair."Wow, this is definitely one of the better Sparks books I’ve read, I sure hope he keeps going in this darker, less sappy direction with the next book too.
Of course we also get the romance (nicely done) and it again takes place in a small North Carolina town (write what you know) but this was way darker then anything of Sparks’ I’ve read before.
With a slowly and deliciously unravelling story, we don’t ever get a huge background dump with any of the characters multiple POV’s instead their lives, secrets and issues are gradually introduced, which I loved.
2.5 rounded upIt's not so much that there is anything bad about this book, it is just that it is....
boring.
A very large portion of the story is devoted to describing the day to day life of the characters who live in a small, seaside town.
etc., comprises not only most of the book, but each of our own daily lives.
While familiar, it's NOT what most sit down to read about.
We all live it.
Most people choose to read for an escape from the workaday life, not to endlessly re-hash it.
He genuinely doesn't see that his behaviour is wrong, something seriously fucked up in his brain  (hide spoiler)]I also appreciated the twist with her neighbour (view spoiler)[ turns out she isn't actually real - she is Alex's dead wife visiting Katie in spirit form  (hide spoiler)] very random and I did not see that coming.Overall, nothing revolutionary, but it was enjoyable and as Sparks' novels go, it had a nice ending rather than a soul destroying one.
:)  I'm not sure anyone's life turns out exactly the way they imagine.
This book, in my opinion, was completely different from any other book I've read of Sparks'.
I would classify this book as a romantic suspense, or even a suspense in general.
There were many instances where my heart was racing, and I couldn't find the strength to put the book down.
And, as with all of Sparks' book, I found myself tearing up in parts.
But not for the normal mushy-gushy reasons.
The pace of this book was an excellent break from the normal, and I think any Sparks fan will love this book, regardless of the fact that it's so different!
When you don't have any family to turn to and you think your in this world by yourself you still have to keep strength to keep moving on.This woman is treated so badly by her husband that is a detective, so why would anyone give her the time of day and belive her story?
She makes a brake for it but her husband is really good at his job.
Little does she know there is another good kind, caring detective out there that can read all the signs.
This is when the strength and unknown power pours out of her.
Ahhhh I'm literally speechless and my heart is racing!-------------------------------I should start off by saying that I already knew I would love this book before actually reading it.
I do not find it boring at all.Safe Haven follows the life of Katie, as she tries to hide from her husband, Kevin.
It reminded me a lot of The Guardian and why I loved it so much because of the suspense, (my favorite book by Nicholas Sparks.) It had my heart racing just by sitting here reading it.
“I’ve come to believe that in everyone’s life there’s one undeniable moment of change.
I watched the movie before I read the book and shocking as it is...
I preferred the movie over the book, just a little bit.
The characters and plot were well developed throughout the story but there were a few parts that either lacked a bit too much or felt out of place...
Overall a great read buuut I don’t think I’d give NS’s books a reread.
If you stay, I promise, there’s no safer place in the world than right here with me.”
It's Nicholas Sparks best book yet!
The love interest, Alex, was a nice guy, albeit too good to be true.
The bad guy, Kevin, was a decent enough villain-ignore some "too convenient coincidences" and he'll do in a pinch--and thanks to him the plot hummed along at a good pace.
If we didn't have Kevin to hate, surely we'd be left with perfect Alex and perfect big-in-only-the-right-places Katie and there goes the entire plot.I read this book in one day because I did want to know where the author was going with this.
I'll just continue to make small talk about the weather any time someone wants to talk about a Nicholas Sparks book.
This is a MUST read for anyone in an abusive relationship. It will give you the courage needed to escape. I have a personal friend who did this exact thing and now her life is much better. When I listened to her tell her story it sounded exactly like Safe Haven. Nicholas Sparks is a wonderful writer. You can see truth in his writing.
This was my first time reading Nicholas Sparks.
I never even seen any of the movies.
I don't know if I can even explain why I loved this book so much.
The characters are great, the romance is done well, and the conclusion was deeply satisfying.
I am eager to see the film, now!When I think of NS I think gooshy, sappy romance with a hint of sadness...that's what I always hear his books are like.
The writing style was amazing, because switching between the comforting, safe life Katie has now, and Kevin's search for her makes for an edge of your seat read.
I don’t see why this book is categorised as romance.
There is no love struggle, not really.
The movie is actually more romantic, maybe because is not completely loyal to the book.When I read a romance, I am looking for a love story that grip you and doesn’t let go, for emotional turmoil, I want to feel, to be moved, have your heart beat so fast you have to stop reading to take a deep breath.
This novel was too plane.
This is my third Nicholas Sparks novel, and so far I have found all of them flat.
The Best of Me
5 stars  The emotions attached to them were like sand castles in the tide, slowly washing out to sea.,  What a beautiful, heart wrenching story! I loved Katie’s strength and Alex’s devotion to his kids and the people he cares about. Katie’s journey kept me glued to the page and seeing her open herself up to Alex and his kids was beautiful… I can’t really give away too much and I’m so glad I haven’t seen the movie (which I hope to rectify ASAP) but you just have to dive in and experience each mom
I loved Katie’s strength and Alex’s devotion to his kids and the people he cares about.
Katie’s journey kept me glued to the page and seeing her open herself up to Alex and his kids was beautiful… I can’t really give away too much and I’m so glad I haven’t seen the movie (which I hope to rectify ASAP) but you just have to dive in and experience each moment with them.
The only thing that killed me was there was no epilogue, now this is the first ( I know shocking, Nicholas Sparks book I’ve read, so I’m not even sure if this is the norm) but I wanted more, to find out how their HEA turned out.*Reviewed on 01/01/2014 - after the holiday craziness*
Read as part of the ABN Summer Reading Challenge recommended by SamAbout fifteen summers or so ago I was in a real Nicholas Sparks kick.
So for the most part I stopped reading Nicholas Sparks; I read The Lucky One soon after I watched the Zac Efron film because...
I think I'm officially done with Nicholas Sparks.
They all follow that cheesy romantic plot line and while I can watch the films still (for the eye candy purposes!) sadly I think my Nicholas Sparks book reading days are behind me.
This was defiantly one of the darker books I've read from sparks.
While this was one of sparks more darker, twisted plots, he was able to write the story in a way that gave just enough information but still let you to fill in some blanks.
Something clever I thought sparks did was wrote some of the book from Kevin's ( the abuser) POV.
Then I read a part in the book that reminds me.
And for this, Nicholas Sparks, I both love you and hate you.
And then, because he had a fabulous smile and was a man who seemed to understand true romance and could write about it minus the smut, he got assigned to the best PR person in the history of publishing.Sparks is a mediocre writer at best.
Alex was directly opposite of Kevin, but Katie couldn't risk getting too close to him.
Finally Kevin found Katie--er--Erin and was enraged to see her with another man.
Then Nicholas Sparks couldn't resist taking it to the hokey and totally unbelievable level by making it so Katie's neighbor was really a magical spirit.
I watched the movie twice in 2013 and I know exactly what would happen and how the story will end so before turning the first page I conditioned my mind to forget about it, to not even think about it, to give the book a clean slate that it deserved.The first part is engaging enough, Katie is a strong character and I liked that.
I would never ever dream of someone even remotely close to him in anyone's real life but in Nicholas Sparks' novel of generally good and normal people, he's everything I could wish for.And then there's Jo. Oh, you'd never suspect Jo to be who she turned up to be in the end.
There is no doubt that you can rely on Nicholas Sparks to deliver a warm-hearted, well-written piece of contemporary fiction which combines romance with drama and current community issues.
This is an entertaining story, with just the right mix of elements, that engaged this reader from the opening pages.Katie is working hard as a waitress at Ivan’s cafe, in coastal Southport, NC, and living in a run-down, low-rent house.
As their friendship grows, Alex and the kids arrange to present the penniless Katie with a bicycle, so she can ride places.
I know that there are most defiantly people like that in the world.
Though most don't even know they are having never felt the joy/love to miss it.Moving on we have Katie.
His actions and thoughts so humane in everything he did making me love reading his POV.
Him Never yelling, lying, yes he wasn't perfect (no one is) but he became the best he could be and always tried to stick to that.
This story is perfect.
I will most definitely be reading Nicholas Sparks books in the future, I'm so impressed with his writing.
Katie es abusada por su esposo y le abandona. Llega a Southport, en Carolina del Norte, y ahí conoce a Alex, un viudo con dos hijos. Deberá decidir si seguir huyendo o darle una oportunidad.La película es una mala adaptación del libro.
Southport, North Carolina sets the stage for this book.
Katie is running from a bad relationship right into the arms of Alex, the local store owner who has two adorable kids and is a widower.
As with most predictable love stories by Mr. Sparks the bad relationship catches up to the good one-- this one ending with a massive firestorm and a unrealistic twist that doesn't quite make the heart strings pull.
I found this one overly wrought with scenes that would never happen in real life, and the ending made me roll my eyes so hard I almost had to close the book before it was over.
I am still one of those people that enjoys Nicholas Sparks books and movies.
I really prefer to read the book before I watch the movie, so I've owned the movie since it came out but never watched it.
This was the first TBR takedown book and I am happy to say this seems to be working well, and now I don't have to unhaul this book.I really enjoyed the story and the characters.
Not going to lie I am just excited that I can watch this movie tonight!
This is my 3rd book from Nicholas Sparks, and just by the 3rd book I already know Sparks' writing formula.
The beginning was sort of a drag since I already know what to expect from the way in which the author would set the tone of the story, introduce the characters as to who's the good, the bad, and the one we should watch out for, etc.
In a nutshell, it's a light, familiar and feel good read.
You pretty much know what to expect from Nicholas Sparks, and he never disappoints.
The book is another romantic novel by Nicholas sparks that took place in South Carolina.
in addition, he captured the emotions clearly and carefully and I truly felt the romantic spark between the two main characters, Alex and Katie.
In light of the above, I learned a lot from the way Nicholas Sparks writes and I believe that I could use that in my own personal writings when it comes to writing short stories or even novels.
Εντάξει σε ορισμένα σημεία το βρήκα λίγο υπερβολικό,όμως η ιστορία είχε ενδιαφέρον!
Katie arrives in the small American town of Southport with very little money and rents a run down cottage with a cheap rental.
And then there is Jo, who moves into the run down place next door to Katie.
Over time events from the past Katie is running from come to light.
I had seen the movie of this one years ago but had not read the book till now.
The book definitely goes into more detail especially of Katie’s past and the horror situation she lived through before escaping.
Αρκετές πρωτιές με συγγραφείς φέτος και χαίρομαι που μέχρι τώρα έχουν στεφθεί με επιτυχία.Πρώτη φορά βιβλίο του Nicholas Sparks λοιπόν. Δεν είναι απλά άλλη μια ρομαντική ιστορία. Περιέχει μηνύματα διαχείρησης πένθους και ενδοοικογενειακής βίας. Πιο πολύ θα έλεγα ότι είναι η ιστορία μιας γυναίκας που καταφέρνει να το σκάσει απο τον δυνάστη και βίαιο σύζυγο της και προσπαθει να χτίσει μακριά από όλους μια νεά ζωή, με το φόβο της καταδίωξης πάντα στο πίσω μέρος του μυαλού της.Άραγε, ο έρωτας έχει θέση στη ζωή της?
sve skupa kad se zbroji, malo je meh
Having said that, I had the pleasure of talking with a 96 year old lady at the hospital the other day and she had this book sitting on her bedside table and told me she likes N Sparks' novels "because they aren't too racy for me" which I thought was adorable so hats off to Mr Sparks for providing a good read for people of a certain age and disposition.However.This book especially irritated me with the whole "dead wife's ghost trying to fix up hubby with some new sweet young thing to raise their kids and have great sex with plot" eww.
It depicts the story from the wife as well as the husband point of view.
He kept such a tight reign that she couldn't leave the house without him, she had no friends, she had to continually change hairstylists so she didn't become too friendly with them, she could only go in the backyard because they had a privacy fence, she had to have a receipt for everything she bought and had to turn over the change to him and worst of all, he made her dress very attractive and wear heels all the time.
In his mind she was happy, in love and had everything a woman could want from her husband......NOT!
The magnetism of the story will leave you wanting more, happy for the outcome and surprised when you find out who Jo really is.
