https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/408.The_Names
There were times in this novel when I wished DeLillo did plots.
The opening hundred pages of The Names is dazzling, especially there’s some of the best travel writing you’ll find anywhere in literature.
And that’s my job." And yet, ironically, the novel begins to backslide more and more towards the primitive.
And thirdly DeLillo is one of the all time great stylists; he can write sentences which take your breath away; but he doesn't really do storytelling in any accepted form.

An intelligent, mature and often quite complexing work from DeLillo who I am a fan, this is set mostly in Greece which centres on an American risk analyst staying in Athens who is slowly drawn to the workings of a mysterious 'language cult' who are obsessed with ancient alphabets and seem to be behind a number of unexplained murders.
Many will be turned off as it requires time and patience and does leave more questions than answers.
but I found it slowly absorbing and very well written.
The cult is a kind of tar baby, an inert web, that traps the protagonists for no point whatsoever.Everyone sounds the same in The Names, men, women, children, adults, bankers and archaeologists.
And since DeLillo doesn't do reflective internal dialogue except to confuse, it's also difficult to decipher motivations.
What attracts his characters to the distributed cult?
I get lost, as if I've become one of his rootless, bored, superficial characters who is "vaulting into eternity." I suppose this is his intention.
Our offering is language.” ― Don DeLillo, The NamesFor 4/5 of this book Don DeLillo was surfing in Mao II, White Noise, Underworld, and Libra territory.
But there was 1/5 (yup, math works) of this book right before the last few pages where DeLillo just let go of the narrative kite.
It was like I was meditating and almost ready to escape the wheel with this book Don, and at the very end your chanting just put me to sleep.
DeLillo's novel is an archeology or words, a history of terror, a hunt for God and the economics of understanding.
Seriously, he's one of the all-time greatest American prose stylists; his knack for catching the rhythms of (educated, disaffected) speech is uncanny, as is his always-apt use of the interrogative-with-no-question-mark, which I've not seen effectively used in most writing but hear in speech every day.
Well, I would say this was notably better than the other two I mentioned, if only because it's set in Greece, but also I think because it was written BEFORE White Noise and his other really good stuff, though I couldn't exactly say why that helps.
As I said before, the prose style is near-perfect, which is nice.
The timing was perfect, the toss deceptively casual.
Maybe my theory is starting to run out of steam, but I think there are some interesting connections between the first few Delillo novels and DFW.
Maybe sometime later this year I'll commit myself to giving Infinite Jest a third read and try to incorporate some of them into how I approach the book (the first time would have been not knowing what to expect, the second time was knowing what to expect and being given the obvious (to me it wasn't because I'm stupid) Hamlet parallels by Karen, and this third time will of course be read through the lens of the great big awful thing that would happen, and with whatever other bits and pieces I'm brining to the novel that I didn't have last time.
THE NAMES astounds & scarifies even w/out the crowd scenes that tend to define DeLillo at his most breathtaking.
More moving, though wildly different, is the phone conversation between the protagonist James, committed to Athens because of his cutting-edge work in "corporate risk-assessment," & his former wife, the evening she commits to divorce & to taking their preteen son to live with her in Seattle.
James becomes an homicide investigator malgré lui, drawn into making sense of a series of cult murders, & so this Italian-American's version of the return to the Old Country (most immigrant cultures have such stories, but this ethnic group especially) -- anyway, DeLillo's version avoids all sentiment as it excavates the axial lines of one family's collapse & what it has to do w/ the larger cultural moment.
"En cierto modo, apenas existimos. Se trata de una vida difícil. Hay numerosos inconvenientes. Las células pierden contacto unas con otras. Surgen diferencias en torno a la teoría y a la práctica. Durante meses, no ocurre nada. Perdemos tesón, enfermamos. Algunos han muerto. Otros han decidido marcharse. ¿Quiénes somos, qué hacemos aquí? Ni siquiera hay peligro de que la policía nos identifique como criminales. Nadie sabe que existimos. Nadie nos busca".
Έχουν περάσει 3-4 χρόνια από τότε που το διάβασα, αλλά δεν με είχε ενθουσιάσει, όπως ο ο αγαπημένος "Υπόγειος κόσμος".
(Someone else “now worked on a consulting basis, advising mainly on fire safety, something of a drop in status and income, considering the living to be made in terror” (40).)Narrator draws up a list of what he alleges his wife to hold as grievances against him, the “27 Depravities” (16-17), including such items as “Self-satisfied,” “You think being a husband and father is a form of Hitlerism,” “Politically neuter,” and “reluctant adulterer.” Text is very much about his relation to his wife, and includes many cool observations: “My mouth at the rim of her ear, all love’s words unvoiced.
Πέραν τούτου, δυστυχώς, ο Ντελίλο δίνει ένα (αχρείαστο, κατ' εμέ) στοιχείο θρίλερ στο βιβλίο με ένα εξωφρενικό εύρημα για μιαν αίρεση και κάτι δολοφονίες, που όχι μόνο δεν προσδίδουν τίποτε αλλά επιτείνουν τον πονοκέφαλο, ο οποίος όμως δεν έχω πει, ακόμη, από τι προκλήθηκε αρχικά: α) από τον πανομοιότυπο και κατ' εμέ αφύσικο τρόπο με τον οποίο συνομιλούν οι (στην πλειοψηφία τους, ασχημάτιστοι) χαρακτήρες του βιβλίου β) από την -δυστυχώς- κάκιστη μετάφραση.
Ξέρω σχεδόν από πρώτο χέρι πόσο δύσκολη και (συχνά) κακοπληρωμένη δουλειά είναι η μετάφραση (και η επιμέλεια), γνωρίζω επίσης ότι μπορεί να έχουν συντρέξει χίλιοι διαφορετικοί λόγοι για την προχειροδουλειά αυτή, για τους οποίους ενδεχομένως δεν ευθύνεται ο μεταφραστής/ια, αλλά εδώ ο αναγνώστης βρίσκεται αντιμέτωπος με μια χρήση των ελληνικών που στο τελικό τους αποτέλεσμα δεν μοιάζουν με ελληνικά.
There you are sitting with your handful of friends and acquaintances you managed to scavenge in a foreign country, drinking local wine and talking about the politics of your own country.
Add traveling to the mix, you are living out of suitcases and hotel rooms, dangling conversations in airport bars, flirting while changing lanes and expanding your obsession with random encounters.
They talk about your country in a way that makes you uncomfortable with a perspective not really foreign or out of place but is that of a victim.
Her yell about context and words slam you in the worst way, making you stumble your words.
Death, like context, needs words.Words change with time.
I think I dove into DeLillo with the wrong book.
An estranged American/Canadian couple raising their son in Greece.
The descriptions of Athens and the Greek Islands are spot on, it really captures the feeling of those places.
Any book set in Greece automatically draws me in.
The way it smells there, the way the sky looks on the islands, the people.
All the elements were there for me to like this book.
I kept waiting to start enjoying the book but it never came.
Lovely writing in parts and DeLillo manages to create an impending sense of doom, a creepy undertone of unease, which I loved.
I go everywhere twice. The first one to have a false impression, and the second time to strengthen it.Lisbon Book-Fair 2015.
One of the characters, Owen Brademas, (who is obsessed with alphabets, the shape of words, and a cult that kills people based on their initials’ matching place names) posits that ancient structures were erected, tombs built, in order to have a place for the words.
“The river of language is God,” he says, which is pretty close to Nietzsche’s “Without grammar, God is not possible” (or was it the other way around?).Lurking throughout the book is the Wittgenstein-ish idea that there is no meaning behind words or events but just the speaking of the words themselves, an act itself.
Late in the book the narrator concludes that when people visit a sacred place, the main thing they have to offer is language.
The word is meant to be whispered … Use names,' I said."If there’s a plot, it is largely about the possible existence of a "death cult" about which the main character sets about trying to discover the truth.
It is perhaps one of those books where the best plan is to let it wash over you - enjoy the craft of the writing and worry less about the plot.In his review in The Guardian (written in 2014), Geoff Dyer argues that Delillo would have won The Man Booker prize 3 times if Americans had been allowed to enter earlier, firstly for this book and then later for White Noise and Underworld.
The Names is an underrated gem, lost in the shuffle of the epic grand theme books by DeLillo that followed.
The opening scene is written so well my jaw dropped to the floor and I literally shook my head and laughed out loud at the pure swagger and command of the prose.The plot is a conundrum.
It maintains relevance through its geography and, for protagonist James Axton, a symbol of order that has survived through the millennia.There are secrets, hidden plots, archeologists, an independent filmmaker, and a mysterious death cult woven into an oblique tale about family.
Mostly though, The Names is a book about language.
Sétimo romance de DeLillo, precedendo a publicação de Ruído Branco, que impulsionou a sua ascensão no panorama literário internacional, Os Nomes, apesar das críticas favoráveis, continua a ser um título imerecidamente menosprezado dada a sua qualidade, mas também por se desprender da crítica à sociedade americana pela qual o autor é reconhecido, para nos apresentar uma meditação política e espiritual do início da década de 80."When I work," he goes on, "I'm just translating the world around me in what seems to be straightforward terms.
Here is a caveat: I read poetry, novels, and short stories for both pleasure and work: to enjoy the writer's use of language and to learn how the writer did what he or she did, and to take away from the experience lessons for myself in my own work.
As a writer I stand in awe of DeLillo's use of language.
Even as I was enjoying the beautiful and startling use of language on the pages, I was thinking that these conversations could never take place because real people do not speak like this, nor does a person think like the main character thinks.
then:DON DELILLO DROVE ME INSANE BY MAKING MY BRAIN EXPLODE AT REGULAR INTERVALS.
I DIDN'T EVEN REALIZE I WAS IN A FOREST, FOR ALL THE TIMES I WOULD GO BACK AND READ THAT ONE TREE, JUST THAT ONE TREE, OVER AND OVER BEFORE I WAS ABLE TO TEAR MYSELF AWAY AND MOVE ONTO THE NEXT PAGE.
AND WALK AWAY, ELSE RISK HAVING A SEIZURE.
if the term 'thinking' even applies in this case, and i'm quite sure it did not.
Politics basically.
Money and politics.
And that’s my job.”But gradually the story turns into a highbrow mystery, sort of The Adventure of the Dancing Men by Arthur Conan Doyle gone postmodernistic… The mystery based on religion:“Was religion the point or language?
If you will know the correct order of letters, you make a world, you make creation.
This is why they will hide the order.
If you will know the combinations, you make all life and death.”But the same signs seen by different people can be interpreted in different ways.
I came back to this book for a couple of reasons; first, because I am about the lose my "Staff Favorite" pick at work (feckless customers who don't realize what a wonderful book Kurosawa's SOMETHING LIKE AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY truly is!) and am thinking about using this as a replacement, and secondly, because I recently read YOUTH WITHOUT YOUTH, which, however flawed it is as a novel, shares some of the linguistic concerns that inform DeLillo's novel.Set in the period just before and during the 1979 revolution in Iran, THE NAMES is told almost entirely from the point of view of James Axton, an American who secures a post in Athens as a risk assessor in order to be near his estranged wife, Kathryn, and nine-year-old son, Tap, who are living on a remote Cycladic Island.
But somehow this novel, which is set almost entirely in the eastern Mediterranean, in a world of early 1980's American expats idly wandering around pictaresque Greek islands and middle eastern desert ruins half-following rumors of some weird language cult, feels like a much more valid and vital use of his style than his more domestic novels.As someone who has spent some time living in this part of the world, the weird mix of calm and creeping anxiety that not very far away are places stricken by intense political violence and socio/religious upheaval that Delillo evokes feels incredibly accurate and estranging without being cheaply orientalized.
I started off liking the book, but about halfway through I was bored and annoyed by the characters' distanced, anthropological view of themselves and each other.
It became really hard to care about any of the characters since they seemed so blase, even when discussing emotional ties.
That combined with a meandering plot that was based more on mood and worldly observations than a narrative arc, made the second half of the book a drudge to the finish.
Although I could appreciate the quality of the writing, the book made me at turns depressed and annoyed at such calculated distancing and witticisms.
DeLillo's writing is so pretentious. He disregards plot in order to create art, which is a noble effort to make but leaves many readers, including me, wanting more. The rape scene was also extremely distasteful and added nothing to the plot, only establishing the main character as a misogynist asshole. Necessary? No. I've heard that White Noise is better, but after reading The Names, I don't want to read any more of DeLillo's work unless academics compel me (which was the case for this one).

This book frames DeLillo's usual obsessions in an international context: he casts Americans, and Westerners generally, as unable, or unwilling, to engage other nationalities at any levels beyond quaint foreigners or menacing terrorists, or pawns in economic and geopolitical strategy...and naturally, the resentment bred through such actions.
While DeLillo is rarely strong on characterization, this book especially strains to make the quieter parts interesting, with a protagonist who's a moody cipher and supporting players who are, at best, mouthpieces for the author's message.
The scenes of human interaction ring utterly false, especially a scene where the hero essentially harasses and badgers a woman into sleeping with him which reads uncomfortably.
The Names by Don DeLillo is a fascinating but somewhat fuzzy book. Set primarily in Greece, it tells the story of James Axton, an American who develops risk analyses, those odd-sounding reports used by international investors and insurers. When the book was published in 1982, would readers have suspected that Axton worked for the CIA? It was the first thing I thought of.But Axton's work is only a part of this intricate story about language, alphabets, secrecy, and cultural identity. See the rest of my review here
Thank you Mr. Graye for recommending this book as my next Don DeLillo read, as I navigate thru his body of work, this being my fourth. There are few authors who have received the gift of perfecting every sentence laid down, absolutely right in the place they belong, throughout the length of the entire novel. Of course DeLillo is one of these artists, and he doesn't disappoint here. Sheer perfection throughout. Honestly, uhhh, well, no, never mind. Some things are better left unsaid, left to the imagination. Burp.
