https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/652484.Fables
I just ♡ Arnold Lobel's books and this is a fav. Anyone can enjoy it. My favorite fable in this book is The Pig and the Candy Store. 5*****
This book was a quick read with a nice old writing style that is built up of a bunch of tiny little fables. The book was okay, but the book didn't pop out as the best book I have ever read. (Finished my genre graph)
1981 Caldecott MedalThis has 20 written and illustrated fables. Each fable contains a timeless moral that all children could benefit from. I think reading a fable or two at a time would work best, since the fables are sort of lengthy.
But with an autistic child who doesn't understand how their behavior impacts others - this kind of lesson seems harsh in a very "you get what you deserve" sort of way.
And I have to wonder if it teaches children to react to this kind of behavior in that way.Perhaps the better lesson would have been a teaching moment, where someone with compassion can work with the offender to understand that they did something not acceptable.
I certainly didn't like this 'lesson' and while I understand that this isn't the most recent book, compassion is something that's been around for centuries.
Arnold Lobel’s writing is witty and inventive as he narrates each fable with a wise and proper air, indicating that the main characters are of high class (which might explain why they are dress in Victorian-era clothing) yet they tried to learn the trials of life as explain by the moral at the end of each fable.
“Fables” is a wonderful book of fables that help teaches children about valuable lessons in life and how they must try to be wise in the decisions they make.
1981 Caldecott Medal: Lovely pictures to illustrate each fable. We read two or three fables each day during Morning Time. The kids guessed at the moral for each fable, which was fun for them and entertaining for me.
Love this book! I remember having it as a child in the 90s and when I saw it at the library I picked it up and brought it home! I then gobbled it up! fun+ nostalgic !!

SUMMARY: 'Short, original fables with fresh, unexpected morals poke subtle fun at human foibles through the antics of animals.
Fables would be a great read aloud for older elementary students.
Each story in and of itself would be a great discussion prompt and/or writing prompt.
His illustrations as always are wonderful and even they could be used as great writing prompts for students to develop their own fable.
The original fables held many great morals.FAVORITE QUOTES: "The highest hopes may lead to the greatest disappointments."Love can be its own reward."
There are sublime stories that teach gentle but important life lessons paired with Lobel's thoughtful and colorful artwork. what more could you ask for? 1981 Caldecott winner!
These original animal fables are still as wonderful as I remember them; with short morals at the end, and attractive illustrations.
I think I have a new favorite Caldecott winner.
It is a very funny book, just a little hard to read if you want to really understand the meaning behind each story.3.
Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)I would use this book to help teach about fables.4.
Small group use (literature circles) (1 pt)If I were to use this book in small groups, the students could read a fable aloud to each other from the book.
Whole class use (read aloud) (1 pt)I would read this book aloud to my students, one a day, when talking about fables in class.
I could read a fable and have the students guess the meaning behind it.7.
1981 Caldecott Winner. I use this book when teaching 2nd Grade Fables. It is such a cute book!
I don't think I read this back in my Frog and Toad days, although some of the illustrations seem familiar. But they are so luminous and fun that they may have been reproduced somewhere else. I don't love the fables themselves quite as much -- I'd rather have a story -- but they are nice and sufficiently silly and tongue-in-cheek to not be preachy.
A collection of fables by Arnold Lobel, similar to Aesop's in that they involve animals in human situations which call for wise decision making. Lobel's illustrations are what make these fables special, some I wish I could frame and put on my wall, especially one of a camel in ballerina shoes. My favorite fables were rather dark, including one about a trio of frogs who chase rainbows into a cave and are eaten by a snake. The moral was something like, 'some hopes end in disappointment.' Ha!
Caldecott Winner 1981This has some truly funny fables. I love the one about the umbrella and the one about the misbehaving kangaroo. It is a fun way to talk with students about fables especially when paired with Squids will be Squids by Scieszka.
Lobel’s inclusion of distinct morals at the conclusion of each tale sets his book up to be received by young audiences – children who still need help creating their own morals for tales they read.
The fantastical realism of this style supports Lobel’s personified stories which, though unrealistic in their characters and situations – such as a crocodile being entranced by a painting – ends with real lessons for his young listeners.
His ink and watercolor medium – evidenced by the distinct lines and blended, pastel colors of his illustrations – creates and sustains the gentleness of Lobel’s fables.
This book contains twenty fables for children.
The way the book is set up, the reader can open to any page and find the fable on one side of the page and a corresponding illustration on the other.
The illustrations are detailed and help the reader visualize the setting and what is going on.
This helps the reader to form more of a connection with the characters, along with the illustrations.
The next day, however, he is able to let out a big crow and succeeds.Target Audience: 1st-4th grade (some words may be tricky for young children, but fables are a third grade standard).
Arnold Lobel writes and illustrates this fable filled book that includes twenty stories with animal protagonists centered around spirited and cheerful moral lessons.
The format of the book includes a full page of text on one page, paired with a single large illustration on the next.
In order to understand the messages and storyline of each fable, readers must not rely strictly on the stylistic illustrations, but instead must read the individual text.
Arnold Lobel writes word heavy moralistic pieces, coupled by broad illustrations that often only reveal the setting and image of the animal protagonist.
This book consists of various fables with different moral messages.
Another fable is about a baboon and its broken umbrella.
The baboon hopes to enjoy a sunny day out in the jungle with the umbrella that won’t close.
The moral of the story: Change is necessary at times.
Overall, the collection of fables has a unique point they wish to get across.
There is only one picture per story, which goes well with fables since fables are meant to be short.
Overall, I recommend this book for parents and teachers to read to their children.
Summary: A collection of 20 Aesop's Fables, each with a beautiful illustration.
The moral of each fable is printed on the page for the reader to consider.
Evaluation: This collection contains a variety of traditional Aesop's Fables, each with a moral or possibly more than one moral of the story.
It is nice that the moral of the story is printed at the bottom of each fable for the purpose of understanding.
However, it may be that having the moral printed on the page is limiting the possibilities of interpreting the fable in more than one way.
I picked up a copy of this because I recognized the cover; I remember nothing about the content of the book, but I'm SURE I read it when I was little (3rd grade at most).
It does have truly superb illustrations, and some of the fables are very good (my favorites are "The Hen and the Apple Tree" and "The Mouse at the Seashore").
Not all of the fables work--just skip the hippopotamus one--but overall, it's a solid collection.
And I cannot overstate the quality of the artwork.I read this aloud to my husband and my pitbull, and they both enjoyed it.
1981 Caldecott Winner; You may better know Lobels' work from his popular Frog and Toad series; This award winner is a simple collection of his own retellings of Aesop Fables and other similar morality stories; The illustrations are very cute; The book is good for Grades 2-3, as any younger would probably not understand some of the morals or even the words; This is a re-read from my youth as well, though I'd forgotten about it. Good read aloud, but be prepared for questions after each fable.
Summary:Lobel’s book is a collection of twenty short fables.
Each story emphasis a key lesson and this can be easily recognized through the text.
Likewise, the lesson is explicitly described in one short sentence at the bottom of the page.
The text in the story is short, so students will not become distracted by extra details.
The text is not difficult to read, so student could independently read the fable or the teacher can read this aloud.
Because the theme is explicitly stated, the teacher already has an 'answer sheet' to assess students' responses.
Students can either verbally state the theme, or write a short sentence.
Wonderful. One man’s unusual but nevertheless wise observations on the behaviour of various characterful animals. Beautifully illustrated. Lobel described himself as cautious and apprehensive when it came to writing, not entirely consistent with the lessons to be learned from his fables, which give cause for hope - for those with courage and an appetite for life, albeit tempered by common sense and an understanding of human nature.
This was very cute. At first I wondered if I might have missed some of Aesop's fables previously, but I believe all of these were new. They are all about a page long, so they could be used as a series of very short storytimes. The illustrations are cute, with several of them being funny as well. A few of the stories do have the fable tendency to end in disaster, but not as many as I was expecting. Overall, this one was fun.
15+ fables with “Lessons” that include:There is such a thing as too much orderChanges of routine are healthyThe high and mighty have the furthest to fallSmall risks add excitement to lifeIt’s always hard to pass as something you are notAdvice from friends is like the weather: some good, some badhighest hopes may lead to great disappointmentsWhen the need is strong, there are those who will believe anythingLove can be its own rewardNothing is harder to resist than flattery
Fun book with unexpected and fresh moral that are taught by animals. Every Fable has a moral to it and it is complemented by a painting to get and idea of each fable. With 20 different fables I will use this in my future classroom to have group discussion. I want to ask my students what did they learn and what was the moral. I can read one by one everyday. It is an excellent learning guide.
Some of the moral lessons are quite harsh so tho' it is a book nominally for children i think it is really for adults because sensitive children could be knocked back or hurt if they took it too deeply to heart ... it is aesop crossed with shades of struwelpeter and Belloc's cautionary tales ... read with care
