https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48213.Sapphira_and_the_Slave_Girl
Cather's last novel, written just a few years before her death, was the only one set in her home state of Virginia.
It occurred in 1856, shortly before the Civil War, and provides an example of what must have been endured by many of the young house slave girls.Willa Cather was one of the best American novelist's of the 20th century.
Her two novels, My Ántonia and Death Comes for the Archbishop are ranked in the top 100 novels of the 20th century on many lists, and she won the Pulitzer Prize for One of Ours.
Rating: 4* of fiveI suspect that the passing of time has improved my ability to read what writers don't write.
This book's many creaks and wobbles mattered to me as a younger reader, whereas now I'm not really that interested in cataloging failures.
As one important example of this trend in my analyses, the concept of a woman "marrying beneath her" once made me furious: If you don't want what's offered, don't say yes!
Now I see a shade of grey I never thought to look for: How else is a smart woman going to stay on top?
I love reading first and last books by dead authors.
Sapphira and the Slave girl, has elements of family autobiography about it – Willa Cather herself making a somewhat surprise appearance in the epilogue of the novel, as a five year old child who witnesses the return of a runaway slave.
The Virginian community that Willa Cather was born into – like that of the community in this novel, was not a traditionally slave owning one.
Me ha encantado como escribe Willa Cather...
In 1856, Sapphira and Henry Colbert live on a mill farm where Henry is a miller.
The titular slave girl is Nancy, a pretty mulatto whom Sapphira, now past middle age and crippled by dropsy, becomes jealous of when she notices that Henry seems to have developed an affection for her.
Sapphira begins to persecute Nancy in subtle ways, including inviting her lecherous nephew Martin for a long visit.
Martin soon makes life miserable for Nancy.
Two clandestine abolitionists live nearby the mill farm, the postmistress, and Sapphira and Henry's grown daughter Rachel.
I know this is classified as one of Cather's "lesser" works but I love it. The view of life from the slave, master and mistress lens is somehow a thread that weaves a mournfully beautiful tale. I started reading this at sixteen and haven't stopped.
I began reading a biography of Willa Cather and only a few pages into the book the biographer began to talk about "Sapphira and the Slave Girl".
This was Willa Cather's last book and it is the only novel of hers set in Virginia.
"The novel is set in pre-Civil War Virginia and concerns the household of Sapphira Dodderidge, a wealthy slave-owning Southern woman, married to the miller, Henry Colbert.
So this was a very personal story written when she was nearly seventy years old.
Nancy, the slave girl of the title, can't be the woman depicted on this book cover. Well, perhaps this is stating the obvious because Nancy's a fictional character and the photo is clearly of a real person. More accurately, then, is that the women depicted on the cover can't be seen as a good representation of the character Nancy. That's because Willa Cather describes Nancy as a beautiful, young mulatto--so attractive that men, white men, are drawn to her. Her owner, Sapphira, even becomes jeal
More accurately, then, is that the women depicted on the cover can't be seen as a good representation of the character Nancy.
Cather has the uncanny ability of truly affecting the reader's emotions, and this novel comes close a few times, it just always seems to fall short of closing the deal.There are some profound undertones to this story, and while the novel may seem simple on its surface, I've read some online literary criticisms that imply there's much more to it.
The structure of the story was there, and pleasantly crafted, it just didn't...capture the emotional and psychological essence Cather is known for in her finest works.
Cather brings the reader into the Virginia region where she was born, west of Winchester in the back country, in the lyears right before the Civil War. She draws her characters well, allowing the story to unfold as she describes Sapphira, Henry, Nancy, Rachel, Fat Lizzie, and the Colbert men.
She allows the reader to live within the community, to know the people, and to confront moral issues from there.
I read a critical review of SAPPHIRA by Toni Morrison and I understand the comments.
However, reading this in the context of the time in which it was written, I appreciate the boldness of the novel.
Willa Cather's novels seem to reach into human nature and tell her stories with few embellishiments, just weaving a good true-to-life story.
"Sapphira and the Slave Girl" was the author's last novel, written when she was in her 70's, and retold from a story told to her as a child (she was born and lived in Virginia till she was about 10).Story of slavery in the 1850's, and may be offensive to some as it's written in the descriptive dialogue used in that time.
A lovely story, beautifully told.
This book, written in 1940, is a melodrama involving characters in the pre-Civil War South.
She suffers from dropsy (I used this book as an excuse to finally look up what exactly "dropsy" is--it's edema, the accumulation of fluid in the legs and feet) and is catered to by the slaves she brought with her when she married.
She becomes envious of and begins to hate Nancy, the young mixed-race daughter of her maid Till; Nancy tends to the miller's office/bedroom.
I found myself enjoying the soapy story and wincing at the attitudes of the characters and author.
Her thoughts on the slave culture that her older relatives in Virginia lived in is hidden.
(This book is a fictionalization of a story Cather was told as a child.) Cather uses dated, derogatory language here, because that's the language they would've used in the 1850s.
The Southern ethics and thoughts of the time run through the entire story; the way they treat blacks as property is abhorrent to our modern ideas.
Still, this book feels a little more "dated" than timeless, because even Cather's 1940 ideas seem antiquated now.
It's an interesting and very readable curiosity - the last book of one of America's greatest writers.
The only of Cather's that could be considered a "page-turner." And pretty gripping, if complicated by the racism that may or may not be there. Her last finished novel.
In her case, that's high praise.Cather wrote this book because she wanted to write about racism at the time when Hitler was taking over Europe.
Because she's trying to portray the time accurately, African American characters talk in dialect and white characters use words like "darkies." But Cather makes a good effort at depicting how enslaved people felt.
Sapphira gets the idea that Nancy, a modest young woman, might become her husband's mistress.
Sapphira even invites a young white man with a reputation for womanizing to come to stay at the mansion so he can seduce or force Nancy.
I LOVED this for Willa Cather's ability to tell a story, her beautiful and tangible descriptions and the tremendous amount of discussion that could take place when you read about all the characters and the different aspects from which they come. Disclaimer: "slave language"
Oh, it's nice to get back to something really good after all those non-girly books I had to read over vacation.
Mrs. Colbert, Sapphira, grew up rich and privileged.
Mr. Colbert is a miller, not really of the class or pretentiousness of his spouse.
At some point, Sapphira turns against her personal maid, Nancy, aka "the slave girl".
She thinks Nancy has something going on with her spouse.
She contrives first to sell Nancy, but her spouse blocks that move, because in those days women had agency only through the good grace of their spouses.
So, how to save Nancy?
I thought that the way it ended, with Sapphira and Henry by the fire, was all that needed to be said.
What you learned in the epilogue added nothing to the story and I was very annoyed at the first person narrator who came in.
Who were they that allowed them to be at such an intimate moment in Nancy and Till's lives?But even if that was solved, even if the narrator was revealed I still believe that the epilogue was not necessary and that the book ended more beautifully with Sapphira and Henry.
Based on an incident in Cather's own family, in which her maternal grandmother helped a slave escape in 1856, this southern plantation novel details the complicated marriage of Henry and Sapphira Colbert, who operate a mill and a small farm in Back Creek outside Winchester in the years before the American Civil War. Henry's wife, Sapphira, believes that her housekeeper's daughter, Nancy, is having a relationship with Henry.
Martin fails, but his mere presence prompts Henry, and his widowed daughter, Rachel—both of whom have long harbored antislavery notion to assist in Nancy's escape.
A complicated novel that harkens back to Old Virginia, Willa Cather's birthplace.
Cather has captured strong memories of the slavery era, with both romantic vignetting and hard glimpses at its cruder sides.
"The Slave Girl" portion offers a sensational quasi-slave narrative that reminds me of the novel Pamela.
The depictions of slavery in general are problematic but worth critical reading and contemplating.I felt the epilogue was too quick, wrapping up the Civil War and (view spoiler)[letting Sapphira off the hook too easily (hide spoiler)].
This is the last book in the Willa Cather Novel Reading Challenge 2012 and it is Cather's last novel.
Sapphira and the Slave Girl is different from Willa Cather's other work, and if you're looking to start reading Cather, this isn't the one to begin with.
It's set in Virginia, where Cather and her family first lived.
And because the household owned slaves, there's a lot of unpleasantness in this story, including racist language and attitudes and threats of sexual assault.
As always, though, Cather is able to effectively dramatize real-life events, and underneath the nastiness of slavery is a good story with complex characters.
If you make it to the end, there is a special treat in the epilogue...
My rating for this one would really be more around 3.5, and not because I didn't like it. I did like it. I just didn't love it. Willa Cather writes well, but I felt like there were large parts of the story left out and that it was mostly just like any other novel similar to it.
3.5 rating. Willa Cather's writing is A+, but this isn't one of her best novels.
I almost gave up on the book, then I read some literary criticism, which helped me to understand some code words of the time, i.e., a fooled woman is one who has given up her virginity to a man who she thought loved her, but ultimately leaves her.
Ultimately, this book is not about slavery, it is about a woman, Sapphira, who when she thinks her husband might be attracted to her slave girl, Nancy, conspires to get her raped.
The book is ostensibly not about slavery, although Sapphira's husband and Mrs. Blake are against it and struggle with the morality of it.
Henry, Sapphira's husband, has never agreed with his wife owning slaves and would prefer not to, but because they came as Sapphira's property, he puts up with it.Henry and Sapphira's daughter, Rachael, feels the same as her father, so when Nancy comes to her for help, she feels she must get Nancy out of her mother's house.
Rachael enlists the help of her preacher, the postmistress, and her father to get Nancy to the Underground Railroad and to freedom.Sapphira and the Slave Girl, written in Cather's quiet and descriptive tone is the last of her works.
"Sapphira" is unlikely to please either pole in the ongoing revisionist history struggles over slavery - "slavery was unmitigated brutality" versus "slaves successfully manipulated the situation to their advantage".
I would certainly not recommend that anyone see "Sapphira" as the last word on slavery, but I also think it's debatable how much the novel is really about slavery at all.
Rather, the book is about Catherian themes of place, displacement, and the ways in which humans (from Sapphira and the miller to Old Jezebel, Till, and Nancy) deal with the cards they find that life has dealt them.
Read for college. I was so unsure about this book because the previous two we were required to read were not interesting at all, but I was pleasantly surprised when I began to read and enjoyed it. It's a simplistic novel with not too much drama but laid back in a sense that the plot just smoothly occurs. I enjoyed the character dynamics and some of the backstories. Maybe not a wowing story but definitely one of the best I have read for college this year so far.
Maybe I just really like Willa Cather, but I very much enjoyed this book. While certainly not as strong as her other novels like "My Antonia" and "Song of the Lark", "Sapphira and the Slave Girl" was still a fun read. I could have used a better explanation as to why Sapphira became jealous of Nancy, but ah well. It is especially good if you like lush and adoring descriptions of pre-Civil War Virginia countryside.
I love Willa Cather. I have a hard time even explaining how I feel about her books because all of them resonate with me so deeply. When I read her writing it just take me right in and I feel like her stories become part of me. She isn’t like other authors who tend to shout out their point from the pages. Cather has a point, but she just tells the story softly and it seems so simple all the way through, until you get to the end, and you realize you’ve been changed just by reading it.
No one quite tells a story like Willa Cather. A modern author would have made Nancy suffer a harsher fate and no doubt there would have been an explicit scene. The threat was real to the reader and that was ultimately enough to keep me hooked and reading. That being said, the ending was abrupt and rather unsatisfying after all the time spent.
To finish off my Cather marathon the last novel I read was this, the last novel she wrote. A very interesting story of the effects of owning slaves when one of a married couple is for it and the other is not. My Antonia is still my favourite book by Cather but this came close.
