https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5190.Open_House
Sam is devastated and simply doesn't know how to make this new life work.
I'm fortunate not to have experienced this first hand however Berg certainly made this experience real for me.
She also decides to find work for the first time in her adult life.
With wonderful skill Berg managed to bring her characters to life and with them I traversed their journey and experienced the gamut of associated emotions.
Fortunately Elizabeth Berg was selected as the BT Author read for December.
I've read a couple of her titles and have enjoyed each one and this was no exception.
Her stories are true to life, her characters are relatable and I tend to fly through her books and end them with a sense of satisfaction for time well spent.
She backslides some but gets quite a bit of help from her no nonsense friend Rita, "clueless" Mother and a new friend, King.
Her son Travis even offers up quite a bit of 11 year old advice.....mostly, "You really are crazy!" This is a thoughtful and often humorous look at the end of a marriage and one way of life...and all the new avenues that can open up to you if you are willing to travel them.
She blends strength and a fragile sensitivity into the character of Sam (as well as King), and this makes the main character someone you would want as your best friend; someone you want to be happy and to be loved.As a writer, I find it impressive that in the 241 pages of Open House the author has created endearing characters and a story that touched me so deeply because as I read it I thought, Yes, that!
What makes the whining and self-pitying of Sam so perverse is that, by all accounts, she lives a really good life.
-	Determined to live in “elegance” following the divorce, Sam decides she will make her son freshly-squeezed orange juice...despite the fact that he doesn’t like it.
Following this outburst, she begins to mope about her bad breath, gray hair and cellulite rather than the fact, you know, that she just horribly upset her son.-	Deciding not to resort to vindictive pettiness, Sam goes to "Tiffanys" and charges $12,000 worth of stuff she has no need for to her husband’s credit card.
Next time I find myself thinking that I need a really easy read, I'll edit my thought to be "I need an easy, BUT STILL WORTHWHILE, read."Although I hate to love, and love to hate on Oprah and her book club books, they usually are pretty decent.
Oprah needs to fire who ever read this book for her, at once!And the thing I find the most perplexing is that my mom left it in my room at home to read.
I mean, she actually read this book and thought to herself "Liz would like this" and then put it in my room for me to find.

Shallow sketches of uninteresting characters paired with the bare outline of a plot whose every development was easily guessed.
Had Berg gone any deeper into any of the characters, we might have had a reason to empathize or sympathize with them, to root for them even, but instead we can hardly wait for the book to end.
Which doesn't take long, because there's nothing of substance to slow down the page turning.
I started the book two weeks before I finished it, because I set it down after the first third (which was read in under an hour) and then *forgot that I was reading it* because it was so inconsequential.
I've been enjoying Elizabeth Berg's books since I picked up a copy of Say When at my library in 2004-- since then I haven't read one I didn't enjoy a great deal...until now.
The characters were very hard to connect with, or even like.
Finally, the conflicts were tied up with a neat, tidy, and abrupt bow in the end while glossing over a great deal of pain and trauma.
I'm really surprised that THIS was chosen as an Oprah book club selection when Ms. Berg has written wonderful books like The Year of Pleasures and Range of Motion.
I was having trouble settling on a book after so much dense school reading, so I decided to let Oprah guide me. This book is kind of like advanced chick lit. The prose is simple and honest, and somehow very comforting. Ideal if you want to spend a weekend lying on the couch with some sort of snack food, but still sophisticated enough to not induce that "I just watched a marathon of The Bachelor" feeling.
Berg described feelings and characters in such detail that I was eager to read more of her work.
I really felt for Sam, the main character, and I loved how Berg added Sam's inner thoughts as an aside of the regular plot.
I was debating between 4 and 5 stars because I kept thinking about what would happen at the end and I was really into the book.The last 1/4, I wanted to throw it out the window.
I don't like to review with spoilers because I like to think my friends occasionally use my reviews to help their next choice for what to read, like I do with most books.
This was a horrible book, I had to give up. I couldn't finish it. The protagonist was so pathetic, I was embarrassed for her and she's a fictional character!! Lol. A complete waste of time!!
The perfect kind to take you into another world, wherein you find life true, almost familiar.After her husband leaves her, Sam wants to recreate her life.
Then there is her mother who thinks that Sam needs to move on, date, have fun, and live.
While she looks at her son and feels like a cheap failure, she looks at her mother and remembers the loss of her father, and how the mother went on to date man after man.
Sam cannot find one thing she likes about herself.
This is an immensely readable book.
This is probably the fifth or sixth time I've read it, and it never gets old.On its surface, it seems like a familiar story: husband abandons wife, wife is crushed, her circumstances and responsibility to her child force her to pick herself up and eventually embrace life again.But Berg's writing is heartbreakingly beautiful and poignant, her characters so real and funny and likeable.
She's so good that reading her books makes me want to throw my hands in the air and say, "I give up!" when it comes to my own writing.For example, to show tenderness and love, she has a man take off a woman's glasses, clean them for her, and gently replace them.
I didn't really care for this book.
I understand how devastating a divorce can be, but was thoroughly irritated by how pathetic Sam became (at one point even throwing herself at the very man who abandoned her and her son).
Also, while reading the book, you get the sense that the time span is over several months, when actually the whole book takes place inside of a couple of months.
So basically, if you nothing else to read, then by all means curl up with this book.
It is a quick and easy read, but not one that will compel you or leave you wanting more.
True to form, Elizabeth Berg sucks again. What do I care about a dumpy, depressed, middle-aged divorcee who spends her evenings reading Oprah book club selections and chowing down chocolate bars? On the up-side, it made me feel thin and accomplished.
Oh, of course this isn't anything like I usually read, but sometimes a book can happen at just the right moment. it's pure chick lit. Sam is presented with a divorce she doesn't want, so immediately goes out to Tiffany's and makes $12k worth of purchases. Eye roll, preceded and followed by several pages of eye rolling. I was darned near certain of the ending by about page 71. Still, it was fun, required no thought whatsoever. Sometimes you just have to take a break.
I really did enjoy this book - it was very readable and fast paced.
Alot of what happens in the book felt true to life, and I particularly enjoyed the relationships between Sam and her son, and Sam and her mother.
I've struggled with that; I read this book ages ago and I've avoided reviewing it because I've been torn.
The problem is that although the book was good, it wasn't particularly great.
And I wanted to like the character of King more.
He was just goofy to me.In short, if you want a book that's well written and a fast read, you'll like this book.
I recommend it to anyone who wishes to be amused by the antics of a recently separated woman ("Sam") with an 11-year-old son, who takes on a roommate to help pay the mortgage.
Sam's preteen son's indifferent, sometimes nasty attitude is right on (I would know).
I loved the other characters in the book as well.
Sam's long-distance friend, Rita, is blunt and honest and over-the-top but at least you know where she stands; and her new friend "King" is likable and sweet (the way they meet is quite interesting).
I don't know that it's worthy of "amazing" (5 stars), but I was definitely entertained and would recommend it to others.
I won’t say what the things were because someone might want to read the book but feel free to contact me for further discussion.
One of the things I didn’t like about this book was the subject matter- it is depressing to read about divorce and it is a topic that frustrates me anyway.
However, I don’t want to seem like I am so unoriginal in my book choices that I need Oprah to tell me what is good literature or not.
Okay, I am done—I guess the bottom line is that you probably don’t want to read this book.
If I could give this book zero stars I most definitely would.
I don't know WHAT I was thinking delving into another book on Oprah's book list.
I have found very few books on her list that don't make me want to poke myself in the eye with a dull pencil.
I listened to this as an audio book and couldn't make it past the 2nd CD (out of 6).
I know Oprah is admired on a lot of fronts, selecting books is NOT one of them.
I can't think of any reason someone would suffer through this book....
I liked my first Elizabeth berg book so much I decided to go read a second one, and I read what I thought was a popular choice: "Open House." It was an Oprah Book Club selection, and was a bestseller.
The first thing I noticed is that it is kind of dated: characters still watch movies via VHS tapes, and people still calculated long distance phone call costs.
That's not necessarily a bad thing, but the book felt like a historical novel in that sense.
I found this book very weird: it seems like Berg couldn't decide on the tone of the book.
So a lot of things confused me.
In this book, Samantha, a woman in her forties with an eleven year old son, must face her grief, helplessness, and frustration when her husband leaves her. She ends up renting rooms in her house and taking temporary jobs to make ends meet. Through these, she meets characters who help her boost her confidence and build a new life. I love Elizabeth Berg's writing and the way she develops realistic characters, so the only reason I gave the book less than 5 stars was because I felt Samantha was a little pathetic and weak.
This was a nice easy read, a good story that moved along quickly and enjoyably. Would have been a good beach read if I could ever get to the beach. I enjoyed it.
This book deserves more than three stars but not quite four.
Part of three-star rating could be attributed to the audio book reader.
The voice was a little whiny.
I do think that Berg perfectly captured the emotions and reactions that a woman undergoes when she is abandoned by her husband, having experienced it myself.
The idea of taking in roommates for extra cash is an interesting aspect to the book, and I wish Berg had stayed with it a little more, especially with the third boarder.
The latter half of the book, maybe even the latter two-thirds, is better than the beginning and worth reading.
Sam’s life falls apart suddenly when her husband walks out. We get to mourn and laugh along with her as she navigates her new reality.Great characters, great dialogue, tender moments and some inspiring self-discovery. I thoroughly enjoyed this book.The narration was just right, and probably made me like the book even more.
I am pretty much crazy over this book💗It is short, it is sweet, it is laugh out loud funny in places, and cry into your Kleenex sad in places-a gem and a joy.
I really enjoyed this book.
A sweet, easy read. Likable characters; laughed out loud in some parts. Sometimes it’s nice to read a book where you can just enjoy it and not have to think too hard.
Loved it. Liked the character, the way she seemed to question everything and herself.
A good story. Berg is a good writer, I enjoy most of what I've read of hers. This one, I felt, was better than "Sights Unseen". Good storyline, believable characters.
