https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1718916.The_Apostle
Although I have read the book of Acts and the Pauline Epistles many times, this book really brought all those events together. It also added a lot of background/historical information that I hadn't known previously.  I wish I would have read it slower and following along in my Bible, making notes in my Bible about the history and culture of the places Paul visited.
Excellent biography of the Apostle Paul which is scrupulously accurate and detailed. It does a remarkably good job at helping the reader see the life-setting of the epistles. Paul comes to life through the pages, and although Pollock is at times a little quick to label Paul's decisions as mistakes, I thoroughly enjoyed the book.
The Johnny Cash biography led me to an interest in Saint Paul.
Though not one of the 12 disciples - born the year after Jesus died, Paul arguably had the biggest impact in spreading Christianity during a time when idolatry was still prevalent and worshipping Christ as the Messiah was considered blasphemous and treasonous - punishable by death.With that as backdrop, this book does an excellent job of bringing Paul and other biblical names into character, and identifying the courage, risks, and struggles associated with what these men were attempting.
This book reads like a true biography, explaining Paul's flaws, his mistakes, lapses of judgment and his ultimate unwavering faith.
But it can't be said that Pollock identifies these as such and yet they interact with the narrative and the biblical account so well it causes in essence a reaction to the early church and the struggle within and without.
What was incredibly convincing was his ability to draw in his own way a conviction about what the gospel meant to Paul and how far he was willing to take it.
Almost unwittingly, Pollock puts together an apologetic for the early church validity and gospel message relevancy for today's church.
Mr. Pollock gives us an intriguing look at the Apostle Paul through a most interesting historical unfolding of his life: through personal experiences, and through the exhibition of his unconquerable faith in Christ.
You get a deeper look into his motives, actions and reactions to the times and the reality of the Christ within him.
Pollock helps us to see Paul in ways we might not be able to see him if we only read some verses here and there from his epistles.
I'm officially giving up on biographies. I don't know why I dislike the genre so much, but I almost always find that they bore me to tears. And after not even being able to get into this biography of the apostle Paul, for crying out loud, I'm done trying. Give me a memoir or a narrative nonfiction history that includes shorter, more focused biographies any day of the week.
Excellent I feel as if I know Paul personally now - as if I have traveled with him. I would like to read this book again with my Bible and maps in front of me and trace his route. Highly recommend.
It’s weird, but I don’t know how else to say it.When I got this book, I was hoping it would humanize Paul and provide all the little details about his era that would make his whole story come to life, that would put meat on the bones of historical artifacts.And that’s exactly what the book does.
It meticulously follows his travels, right down to details about what the scenery looked like from the particular roads he walked on.
So, we end up with a dramatic story that reads more like a history textbook.The author certainly knows his history — I learned a lot about Paul and his era.
Polluck brings together all of the information on the Apostle Paul from the New Testament and supplements it with extra-biblical source material (including primary and secondary sources).
The author also uses his tremendous grasp of NT Greek to expand on the nuances of some of Paul's words.
For anyone like me - who has long tried to piece together the details of Paul's life with his Letters - this book is well-worth a thorough read.
Fascinating and compelling, it provides the context for Paul's Letters in an engaging and spiritual light.Recommended for: Everyone, but especially those interested in missions and the early church.
Too much reliance, preference and references given to corrupt Bible versions and manuscripts.
The ubiquitous Apostle Paul, formerly Saul the persecutor, is a classic story in the book of Acts about a pharisee turned Christian that has a timeless element to it.
From this, we see a different side of the Apostle.What is also interesting is that Dr. Pollock meshes the accounts in Acts with the corresponding Epistles that Paul penned, showing the connection between what Luke wrote about Paul and how that connects with what Paul wrote himself.
In turn, you see the time spent with the Galatians and the heartbreak Paul experienced in his letter to the Galatians when they turned away from what he preached there.Many read the Pauline Epistles and find a jaded man with a temper that lashes out with passion.
My knowledge of Paul really did not go beyond his story in the book of Acts.
Mr. Pollock supplied insight into his personality, the torture he went through during his lifetime and the effects it had on his body.
Suffering for his Lord and Savior Jesus Christ was not a problem for him and his life of ministering to others reflects that over and over again.
You are one person Paul, that I really want to see and speak with when I get to heaven.
Thank you Mr Pollock for this book and the historical facts within.

I enjoyed the book tremendously.
This book greatly describes his life upbringing his devout Jewish faith how he persecuted Christian's then on the road to Demascus of course was converted.
This book also describes his many journeys throughout the Roman Empire, the pain and suffering he endured his joy and doubts along the way.
It lists many biblical names I was not familiar with and cities I had never heard of.
All in all a great biblical and historic read.
For those who want to gain a better understanding of WHO St Paul was this book will become a great read.God BlessDNC
Gave me a different view of PaulI want to make this 3.5. At times it was wonderful. You could see the sea and the storms that crashed the ship Paul was in. At other times I would be counting pages to see how much more I had to read. It has made me want to catalog the order of Paul's letters in the New Testament and read them in order in light of this book. It certainly makes each of these letters more relevant when you read them within the context of when and how they were written.
Faith grows when combining Paul's written words with the events of his life brought forth as his biography This book gave reality to Paul's writings. Combining the history of the era gave a great feeling of bringing Paul's words to life. His epistles are daily bread to the soul and I now am fed to the full reading the work of the Holy Spirit live in him and impressed in a new way.This is a "must read" for all people everywhere. Your life in Christ will be found, renewed, grown.
I love this book! Pollock's prose flows easily, his ability to combine history and religion compels the reader to turn the page, and his portrait of Saint Paul is engaging. His use of historical people and places is so much more interesting that a map of Saint Paul's journeys - you know...those finely crafted-color coded-thin to dotted line-pictures in the back of your Bible. This is a book I will read again!
Great book!This book includes tons of scriptures and descriptions from the Bible, but also many descriptions of the cities, travel routes and experiences Paul encountered, again out of the Bible, but also with narratives of current day geography of those areas. The book made me think more deeply about what some of the feelings Paul may have had, as the author tried to “fill in” what Paul or anyone else may have thought as Paul experienced what he did.
A literary portrait of the Apostle Paul Good and comprehensive account on the life of the Apostle Paul. John Pollock does good job in providing historical context and circumstance under which Paul made certain statements in his writings - a supplement which goes a long way to enhance one's understanding of the Apostle's epistles.
What a great book to fill in the historical details of the enigmatic Paul. I have never been much of a fan of Paul, I'm afraid, but this book has finally put me at peace with him. Understanding the backdrop of history within which he was operating has made all the difference! (It helps if you are already familiar with him through his many epistles in the Bible....)
I really enjoyed this book, and learned quite a bit from it. It was easy and enjoyable to read, it really brought the book of Acts and the New Testament together in my mind, and brought the apostle Paul alive to me as a human being. This is not an "imaginative" book, but is researched and detailed. I highly recommend!
There are so many chapters in the New Testament that Saint Paul wrote that I was compelled to read this book. However, I was able to download it on hoopla and Dennis and I listened to it on our trip as we were driving back-and-forth to Omaha. It is an amazing story. Saint Paul was an amazing man and devout follower of Jesus.
This was surely a daunting subject for the author to take on. But it's obvious that he did a lot of research. The author is an excellent writer and keeps the story interesting in spite of the numerous details. I think this is a good read for anyone studying Acts or the writings of Paul who wants to add a greater background understanding to the text of the Bible for context.
A book written for everlasting faith !!I choose 5 stars because I will remember for a long time this story of Paul. It excites me to know about the the man who wrote so much of the Bible. As I read the books and chapters of the Bible, I will Smile inside because I now know!!
Very well-written biography - both interesting to read and did an excellent job of tying in Paul's writings. I also liked the descriptions of Paul's travels. This book did exactly what I'd hoped when I found it: gave me a much better appreciation and perspective for a saint whose readings are so often a part of the Mass.
Essential companion to the Epistles of Paul. I started reading this while in a study of Romans. Puts the reader in his life and times. Deepens understanding of his letters and why they were written. Spirit filled, adventurous and enlightening. Hard to read at times, yet hard to put down. Gems of historic facts throughout. I will treasure this book.
FaithfulnessI found this story of Paul's life to be a great encouragement. That God would use someone who began his life as a persecutor of Christians to write a great deal of the New Testament is a great example of the Grace of Salvation.
A very good read on the Apostle Paul. His biography of the man offers insight into the person reposnsible for so much of the New Testament. After reading this book, you will better understand the man and his writings.
I love this Book it's exceptionally well written This is by far the best book written on the Apostle Paul besides the Bible. It Helped fill in some information that I looked for. Definitely Worth Reading!
A Must Read!The scriptures have come alive for me in new and powerful ways through this biography of Paul! Thank you for giving us a clearer and deeper portrayal of who Paul really was, and his true witness of the faith!
