https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180930.Wicca
Where would I be without Cunningham? His view of Wicca and of magic in general shaped mine. His practice is where mine begins and ends.
Books on Wicca religion by author Scott Cunningham are often recommended to me, and this particular one is generally considered to be his most popular and best-sold one.
His chapter on magick was especially lacking since he didn’t explain the reasoning/philosophy behind it all; nobody just looking into it can grasp the concept of magick and how it’s used in Wicca from the way he’s written that particular chapter.
Sadly, this isn’t a very good book in my opinion, and not one I would specifically recommend as it paints an unbalanced and incomplete view of the Wicca religion.
"Wicca: A guide for the Solitary Practitioner" by Scott Cunningham is an amazing book that was recommended by several wiccan/pagan youtubers on youtube.
This is actually my first wiccan/pagan related book that I've ever read in my entire life.
I thought for me it would be a little bit easier to start with a book.
I highly recommend this book if you are recently starting your spiritual journey into wicca, or paganism.
And its such a wonderful resource that help me learn and comprehend about wicca, and paganism.
Though at times i felt that the book moved a bit fast leaving you shorthand on wanting to learn more about a certain chapter.
I feel like too much time was spent spelling out the differences between Christianity and witchcraft and that it's not devil worship, as if I already didn't know.
I have a feeling I will be dealing with this a lot in introductory pagan/witchcraft books.It was okay up until his Standing Stone BOS.
I didn't care much for his prayers or for his spells, as they are not my own and not how I would do things.
I felt the herb section was useless, but I hear great things about his herb book, so I may check that out.
This is Scott Cunningham’s attempt at simplifying all things Wicca for the "newbie". It does cover subjects with a common sense approach, but leaves out many needed fundamentals. He does have a gentle voice, very inviting for the inexperienced, won't be appreciate by the seasoned pro.It is important to note that Scott Cunningham practiced Wicca 20+ years and was the author of more than 50 books. He passed from this life on March 28, 1993, after a long illness. He is missed.Blessed be.Get Your Copy of Wicca: A Guide for the Solitary Practitioner by Scott Cunningham on Amazon Now!
When I took my first brave step into exploring paganism this is one of the books I fortunately encountered.
Although I don't class myself as Wiccan now, it certainly provided a fantastic overview of this spiritual path and introduced me to elements of paganism that I have kept as part of my own belief structure ever since.
The ancient Celtic calendar, also known as the Wheel of the Year, is given an adequate introduction and there are some beautiful poems and blessings for each Sabbat, plus ideas on how to celebrate, what ritual is and the tools commonly used and their meanings.
It's a great reference book and ideal for beginners or just those with a curious mind.
Often times in reading books on Wicca you have to pick and chose what works and what to take seriously.
Cunningham provides an excellent guide to Wicca for beginners, one that covers all the basics-what magick is, how it works, and, more importantly, provides a deep understanding of the spiritual roots of the religion tied directly to mother earth and the Pagan old gods.Wicca: A Guide, is no book of spells or incantations, though it has some basic information.
Which I personally needed when I first started coming from the background I did.
It's a personal kind of feeling and I loved that so much.
There is a lot of info in this book, everything one would need to start down this path that they've chosen.
Some have said that this book is too 'fluffy' and while I agree that it leans to the lighter side of things.
I liked that going into this from my background it was a good thing.
I think these 'fluffy' books are perfect for people like me.
So I will always love this book and think it's great.
This book was the first one I ever read on Wicca (as with most judging by the reviews) It literally blew my mind and set me on a path that I have never diverted from since I was 13. Now in my 30's I can't help but look back at this book with a sense of nostalgia and love for Scott Cunningham. I would recommend this book to anyone starting out on the Witches Path as it is written in a simple and beautiful format that is easy to digest yet still covers all the essentials.
A good time to connect to the Goddess is when viewing the moon at night and saying a little prayer.
The same could also hold true for the God.The Goddess goes through three stages, as represented by the moon.
The Male God goes through three stages as well represented by the changes in the solar year.
It is a good time for doing spells that involve future gain or tending garden.Beltane occurs on April 30 This is symbolic of the Goddess becoming pregnatn from the God. Phallic symbol are erected mostly May poles.
There are so many useful little tips in this book that even though it convinced me that I would not be happy as a Wiccan, I am happy to try many of the exercises Cunningham puts forth for trying to attune myself to a deity.In general, this is a very clear and easy book to read, with a good general overview of many, many things.
After reading the (necessarily) short section on the sabbats, I decided that I probably should get a proper book on those so I have a better understanding of some others' points of view of them.
Then, of course, it has a large bibliography with a good range of books on Wicca, should you read this and then decide that this really is the path for you.
For example: He performs this spell over a drawn version of his phone bill and states, “Within a day or 2, perhaps a week, Ill either receive unexpected or delayed money, or will satisfy other financial obligations in a manner that frees me to pay the bill”.
It seems to me that it’s just taking bits that you like from other faiths (Pagan rituals, ancient Egyptians rituals, Greek mythology and even a bit of yoga!) and mashing them together to form an anything goes, do whatever you want sort of thing.The rest of the book is spent pointing out its differences to Christianity.I’m in the mood to watch Hocus Pocus now :D
The late Scott Cunningham presents a clear, concise, and easy-to-read introduction to the topic of Wicca, both for the new practioner and for those simply interested in expanding their understanding of a path that dates back centuries. Cunningham is known for his earnest and down-to-earth approach to his chosen topic. He explains each concept so that the lay-person can understand the history, meaning, approach, and results of the practice of Wicca and Paganism. Highly recommended for anyone with even a passing interest in the ancient arts of the Craft.
Everyone recommends this book as a perfect beginner's book for Wicca and I can kind of see why. I wouldn't say it's the best book out there but I've read a lot worse and Cunningham does cover the basics really well.
The chapters in the Theory section explain just what Wicca is, how it's practiced in a group/coven structure, and how the reader/seeker can modify that practice to become a "Solitary Wiccan".
Cunningham's presentation of the "Wheel of the Year" is solid, giving the seeker a framework to begin a year's worth of Wiccan observances.The Practice section outlines a basic format for Wiccan ritual: preparing the sacred space, casting the circle, calling the Gods, the Work itself, and closing the ritual and breaking the circle.
Cunningham explains how those traditions are not the only paths to the God and Goddess.From a writer's perspective, Wicca: A Guide for the Solitary Practitioner gives good information for character development.
Cunningham's masterpiece is an excellent first guide to the Old Religion, with an emphasis on personal autonomy and a do-it-yourself spirit. Highly recommended for anyone just starting out on the path.
wonderful book, great for beginners
Well written, very informative.
4.5
Contrary to this, many books say moving clockwise is waxing or growing energy, and moving counterclockwise is waning, or letting go of energy--(to mirror the moon's cycles.) I have been witness to the deliberate use of counterclockwise action in my years of practice with others.I also disagree that Wiccans believe in reincarnation and past lives.
I did like the addition of using gestures and mirror work because this is rarely mentioned in beginning wicca books.
I also found his use of stones as his source of power in practice and in visualization interesting.
When I decided I wanted to learn more about paganism (specifically neopaganism and Wicca), I immediately started doing my research on the most refutable and trustworthy books out there that could simultaneously give me a beginner's/outsider's view of the religion that has formed into modern day Wicca.
Upon completing it, I can see why.The information given in this book is very basic, however it still covers a very wide range of material.
Wicca is so multifaceted and encompasses such a wide range of practice that finding a book that will make you an expert (or even bring you out of the "beginners" zone) is impossible.
I still found it interesting to read though because it helped me think more deeply about my beliefs.
For example, I found this paragraph on page 26 very interesting: "If you truly desire to know the nature of magic, practice it!
Even if I didn't agree with everything he said, it made me stop and think.But as it went on, there was some very useful information I keep going back to even now.
I think if I had read it sooner in my spiritual journey, I would have found the information more helpful.This is one of the most well-known books on Wicca worldwide.
Scott Cunningham is such a popular author in the Wiccan communities. I've come across people who love him and people who hate him. Personally, this was the very first book I read about Wicca and it certainly helped educate me. It is a good 101 book and doesn't go into very much detail. I would recommend it to anyone who is just starting on the Wiccan path or one who is trying to understand it. It also does have some great references in the back that I find very useful.
What can I say? An inspirational person that left too soon. A book you use over and over again throughout your years of practise and you always say.... Scott Cunningham will know. The book and man with the answers if you can call it that?
I found myself furious with the depiction of the Goddess.
there is no reason to associate the Goddess solely as symbolic to fertility.
I can disagree all I want with religion itself, but I feel like I got a good grasp of it, which is what Cunningham sought out to do.
I'm sure there's a better book out there (I've been recommended a few goddess-centric ones and am looking for suggestions!!), but I feel like for what it is, it was good and it's what was available to me.I don't know what kind of witch I intend to be, but I'm interested to find out.
I listened to the audiobook version of the book while I was working on some sewing.I read this book way back when it first came out and I was hungry to learn about Wicca as a faith.
This book gives you the information you need to start practicing Wicca in your own way, while still giving you basic foundations of the faith as many follow and have been taught.
Cunningham highlights traditions and what are accepted practices, but also encourages you to do your own thing to make the Craft your own.

I mean, I'll pray to Thor right now so that I'll have a way to pay my utility bill next week.
I'll get my paycheck from my job, pay my bill and Thor will have come through for me..behold the power of thor.He also makes silly statements like "if you have difficulty finding a cauldron,persevere and one will eventually materialize.
It certainly can't hurt to ask the god or goddess to send one your way." Yes, more time increases the likelihood of finding something...there's nothing magical about that.All in all, his explanations were satisfactory but his stories and justifications just showed a whole lot of confirmation bias.
If one was so inclined to find a starting point or just curious of the practices held by those who practice the craft, this book is a great resource.
Perhaps I was a fool for not considering the highly religious aspects that would play apart in Wicca but nonetheless it was a great read.I would highly recommend it to anyone who is slightly curious about Wicca for whatever the reason.
While taking an introductory course on Wicca last year, several people recommended Scott Cunningham’s books to me.
Classmates said that his books are filled with comprehensive information in an easy, readable style, and they were right.
He doesn’t tell the reader that his is the only true or correct book on Wicca.
To that end, Cunningham supplies a comprehensive list of books by other authors, as well as a glossary of terms, which was quite helpful.
The book certainly inspired me to read more on this fascinating topic, and to read more of Cunningham’s work.
