https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/653396.Feel_the_Fear_and_Do_It_Anyway
I was afraid to leave this review, but I did it anyway.
Kidding.Really, though, this book is probably really important for some people.
Women leaving relationships, I'd imagine.
They highlight an important truth that you can't wait for the fear to go away before you do something.I know that this book influenced a lot of other books I've liked.The 3 stars instead of 4 or 5 is partially because of sentences like these:[This] "Higher Self is capable of a high degree of sensitivity and attunement to a harmonious flow within the universe."I just have a hard time reading sentences like that, sober.And actually I never finished the last chapter, largely because the above sentence was in the beginning of it, and I have a lot of other things to read.
I was afraid to return the book unfinished, but I did it anyway.
It was a real eye-opener to me that I lived much of my life hovering around the perimeter of the pool rather than jumping in with both feet.
Most eye-opening for me, though, was it was the first time I had been taught that fear was fine - embrace it, don't dodge it.
I'm still more Woody Allen from "Annie Hall", but the book did fuel me toward some braver choices in life, and I think it's a great read - not too clinical, not too esoteric - just good guidance through learning to live with the beast that resides in everyone's anxiety closet.
There are some decent ideas and suggestions in the first couple chapters, but it goes downhill for the rest of the book.Between the constant ads for her other products (Inspirational Audios, books of affirmations, etc) and the unabashed brute-force self-brainwashing there are tidbits of insight wrapped thickly in late 80s psychospiritual nonsense.
In fact, she stopped just shy of making a mini version of The Secret.I don't think this book deserves 1 star, as it does make some good points.
But if you value reason I would suggest reading the first 3 chapters in a book store and start building the skill of Doing it Anyway ®.
In other words, facing our fears is something we can practice and get better at, even if we can never completely obliterate fear from our lives.She goes on to talk about decision making.
In this enduring guide to self-empowerment, Dr. Susan Jeffers inspires us with dynamic techniques and profound concepts that have helped countless people grab hold of their fears and move forward with their lives." Around Chapter 3 (only 15% into the book!), Jeffers starts veering pretty far away from the subject of facing your fears.
Having lived most of my life with debilitating Panic Disorder (google it if you're curious) this boo
"Should be required reading for every person who can read," says Jack Canfield (author of Chicken Soup for the Soul) and I concur. Jeffers has a PhD in Psychology, and her book is full of inspiring calls to action and powerful, accessible techniques to help one take charge of one's life. There are many practical, simple (although not necessarily easy) things one can do to confront fear. Jeffers suggests ways to take small steps, and then what was scary isn't as much, as you gain experience.
Susan Jeffers writes brilliantly, clearly and concisely, and is so inspirational that its hard to feel anything but positivity when reading this particular book.I have now told my father i am transgender, and last week i actually went to the dentist to have teeth pulled out.
لأنه كما ذكرت في غيرما كتاب أن أكثر مشاكلنا اليوم هي نتاج طفولتنا.النقطة الأولى: بشكل شخصي أحببت الكتب التي تبدأ في حل المشكلة من أساسها بدلا من إعطاء أساليب وعلاجات لمعالجة الأعراضsymptomatic treatmentوهذه الطريقة يستخدمها ( جون غراي في كتابه ما تشعر به ) وَ ( كيث هاريل في طريقة تفكيرك هي الأهم ) وغيرهما من الكتبوقال لي أحد الأطباء النفسيين أن كلا الطريقتين مستخدمة، وإن كانوا يتجهون إلى الطريقة الثانية الآن.النقطة الثانية: كثير أو أكثر أفكار الكتاب هي تماماً (١٠٠٪) أفكار كتاب كيث هاريل / طريقة تفكيرك هي الأهم، لكن طريقة عرض كيث كانت أفضل.كذلك هناك أساليب شبيهة جداً في كتاب حقاً المريخ والزهرة لجون غراي.حيث كانت تركز سوزان على تغيير طريقة التفكير، والاهتمام بفريق الدعم (أى: الناس المساندين لك)، والاستيقاظ كل يوم بتفاؤل وحماس..

In life, we encounter many trials and tribulations (these may be internal or literal realities) yet the only way to overcome our struggles is to be ‘a tryer’ and try until you overcome the obstacle.
Life is too short to dwell in jealousy, bitterness, resentment, insecure of self, assumptions of negative impressions etc..
Nothing is as bad as it seems and if you keep on endeavouring to learn, grow, experience, learn from lessons and mistakes, be honest and if something doesn’t work out then don’t dwell in darkness and animosity – be HAPPY cause’ life is special, precious and full of memories..
A friend of mine recommended this book to me and at first I was a bit skeptical but fell in love after the first 10 pages. It seems to cover every issue you come across without actually pinpointing one certain issue.It's a good book to fall back on as a quick picker-upper if you're having a bad day or just feel discouraged. It's helped with my personal life alot and it's something I'm sure to have memorized within the next 10 years.
Some stuff a bit overly simplistic and unrealistic, but some real pearls of wisdom as well.
And I think her expectations for people to choose to feel positive even under the most dire circumstances (e.g. bereavement or cancer) is a bit severe and unforgiving.
Nevertheless, I did find myself quoting parts of the book to other people whilst reading it, so obviously I found several parts to offer helpful advice.
I'd say that the 2nd half of the book is excellent but the first half, a bit simplistic.
Sir Ken Thompson recommended this book in his, The Element. I picked it up with some trepidation, because the whole idea sounded so simple. But it's a top-notch self-help book, about a whole lot more than just fear. Jeffers covers the whole waterfront of ineffectual behavior and patiently tells you how to stop it and replace it with better behavior. If you're stuck at any point with fears, resentments, bottled up anger, and so on, this book will help (if you let it).
Originally published in 1987, this self-help classic was reissued in a 25th anniversary edition in 2012. I looked over it for a proposed comparison article with  How to Win Friends and Influence People  (later cancelled, alas) and found this one to be more relevant and readable. Jeffers says that at the base of every fear is a belief that “I can’t handle it.” Our fears are either of things that can happen to us (ageing and natural disasters) or of actions we might take (going back to school or c
Jeffers says that at the base of every fear is a belief that “I can’t handle it.” Our fears are either of things that can happen to us (ageing and natural disasters) or of actions we might take (going back to school or changing jobs).
The most helpful thing of all to me was the “Whole Life” grid of nine elements: work, relationship, family, friends, hobbies, leisure time, alone time, personal/spiritual growth and giving back (e.g. volunteerism).
Give yourself 100% to each one, Jeffers advises, and set goals or to-do list items related to each one.
A great book for everyone even if you don't think the title applies to you.
Sometimes the only way to overcome the fear and feel better about yourself is to just go out and do it.
But it also talks about taking more control of your life instead of indecision ruling because of being afraid of making mistakes.
Tells you how to move from a position of pain ("It's not my fault, I'm never satisfied, It's terrible") to one of power ("I'm totally responsible, I want to learn and grow, It's a learning experience").
Making your life well-rounded and "whole".
Basically just having a great attitude and how that changes everything.
You will be relieved to know that Jeffers does not believe that our fears are psychological--phew!
Rather she believes our fears are, in most cases, an educational problem, and her book is loaded with ways to help us reeducate our mind.Not heavy, but practical Jeffers puts a lot of focus on saying, "Yes", seeing the possibilities for change and growth, and choosing love and trust.
It's all about committing to and learning how to push through the fears and becoming more than you are, because as Jeffers points out "so much of the joy in life is the challenge of figuring it all out".
Susan Jeffers has a lot of sound, practical advice for taking the step to overcome the nagging fears that are standing in the way of getting to the places you want to be in your life and career.
The first year I was teaching at a university I was really nervous and anxious whenever I stepped into the classroom.
I loved what I was doing, but hated not being an expert with years of experience yet.
It was good to have a reminder that I could handle whatever situation I was placed in, even if it was new and unfamiliar.
Great book, it was an easy, quick read. I actually read it a few times. The author brings up some good points on how we see fear. How even as children we are told to "be careful" and we see an optimist as a Pollyana and their positive view as unrealistic even though most of our fears of negative things never actually happens. The author gives you a few strategies to try to keep out of the negative/fearful mindset and gives great examples of how she overcame her fears.
This book truly changed my life.I read it whilst training to be a counsellor, and it impacted me greatly. Many years on I still hear this phrase when faced with a new and/or daunting situation.Truly one of the best books I ever read. I have become a fiercely independent woman, and I have to thank in part, this gem of a book.
Savā ziņā grāmata ir kā mierinājums, ka bailes ir visiem. Neviens nav gatavs pārmaiņām vai kaut kam jaunam, neizjūtot bailes vai šaubas. Bet, ļaujoties tam, no kā mēs baidāmies, tā, pirmkārt, ir iespēja paplašināt savu komforta zonu (jo šaurāka tā ir, jo vairāk baiļu mums ir) un, otrkārt, tā ir iespēja pārvarēt bailes. Jā, bailes var pārvarēt tikai, izdarot to, no kā baidāmies. Plašāka atsauksme blogā: http://pl-inga.blogspot.com/2017/06/p...
After suffering from severe almost crippling anxiety, I was giving this book to help me cope and it was the best thing that I ever read. It changed my relationship with anxiety, fear and future dreams. If you do the exercises in the book, it helps change your understanding and except the many issues you believe are holding you back.
1.5 stars
This book brings up some very interesting thoughts; we are in control of our own attitudes and decisions.
Jeffers accepts that as someone who suffered cancer, she did not choose to become ill, but how she decided to react as a consequence was entirely her doing.Jeffers is an inspiration, however, my only issue is that she quotes herself in her own book - and although that is her inner strength, my reaction to it was a very English one; I thought it was just a touch arrogant.
We used to think that feeling fear is a good reason to not do sth BUT it hasn't to be this way.
Here is some of them: 1) fear isn't ganna go a way as we continuo growing.
She looked at this as a positive thing that helps to face fear.2) the only way to get rid of fear is to go put and do what we are afraid of doing.3) the only thing that ganna make you feel good about yourself is to go out and do it; NOT wait to get rid of fear to do it.
The one complaint I have is that the author has some very irritating attitudes towards disability and chronic illness.
In more than one anecdote, she implies that a patient was faking or making up an illness and once they adopted a positive attitude, all their symptoms disappeared.
For people with chronic illness, we already face doctors and peers telling us we're just hypochondriacs and it's all mental.
Having a positive attitude can help deal with illness and disability, but it is not a magical cure for real physical illnesses and disabilities, and those anecdotes felt dismissive and insulting.
هر وقت کتابی میخونم که نقطه ی عطفی میشه شگفت زده میشم.
نکته اینه که تعداد این کتاب های شگفتی آفرین هر روز بیشتر و بیشتر میشه و از جذابیتشون ذره ای کم نمیشه یا تکراری نمیشن انگار همشون شاهکاران یکی شاهکار ادبیات و دیگری شاهکار موسیقی ...
وقتی میخوام بیام اینجا ازشون تعریف کنم میمونم چی بگم آیا همون حرفهای قبلی تکرار کنم که حتما این کتاب بخونین، میتونین با این کتاب تو زندگیتون شگفتی بیافرینین...یا با این کتاب و عمل به اون میتونین شادی رو توزندگی خودتون تضمین کنین...همه ی اینها هی داره تکرار میشه.
It took me a while to get into it but once i'd gotten through half and i started taking on the advice, I felt so much more positive as-well as calm.
I definitely underestimated how this book could simply explain basic instructions that drastically reduced my day to day anxiety and depression.
Its helped me to learn how to maintain good mental health.
I feel more optimistic, more grounded and overall I was pleasantly surprised by how powerful this book was for me.
I would certainly recommend this to anybody with an open mind who would like a little insight into building up their skills, confidence and learn better how to enjoy life!
This is one of the most popular and often recommended self-development books on the market and it is easy to see why. Author Susan Jeffers offers up a very easy read that makes a lot of sense, helping the reader to understand why many of the common fears that hold us back from living our lives are, in reality, irrational and that we can re-program our minds to overcome this irrationality and live full, productive and rewarding lives.I found this book an easy read with every chapter hitting home with practical advice.
I first read Feel the Fear and Do it Anyway when I was a young manager, and it made a big difference in how I approached my life and career. I still refer to key points in the book when coaching leaders, students, and anyone facing a change in their life. Susan Jeffers was teaching about crucial aspects of emotional intelligence before Goleman's book popularized the term.
Stumbled up on this book some years ago and was glad I picked it up. It helped me get past the fear of sitting down and talking about business with individuals I didn't know. This book is a real eye opener, deserves a re-read.
