https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27323.Hiroshima
The scene featured a spot-lit survivor of the atomic bomb, a minister, a man who put tireless efforts toward assisting his fellow survivors through worldwide fundraising despite the impediment of living as a hibakusha, a sufferer of the for generations felt, infinitely complex and boundless in physical manifestations, lifelong, crippling beast that is radiation sickness, a man who championed the notion that hatred of America and anger toward the attack(ers) is a knee-jerk reaction and that it is the notion of Total War rather than that of American militarism in general or atomic warfare specifically which should be the target of emotional examination and legal action, and which should be fought against by redirecting all the power of concentrated anger rippling through Japanese society after the bombs were dropped toward the goals of peace, acceptance, and precautionary measures taken for the future of the world, a man who stood in front of the United States Senate and prayed to them for their welfare, congratulated them for their role as the leaders of Planet Earth, and thanked them for bringing peace, stability, and democracy to his nation.
It seems almost indecent to put a rating on this book, I feel as if I am giving all these poor people's horrific suffering an excellent.
By following certain survivors we come to see and in my case to care greatly about these poor people.
How much suffering and horror this bomb caused, on innocent people at the mercy of their emperor's decisions.
A young doctor, one of the few available in the immediate aftermath, who tries to take care of those he can with very few supplies and with only one hour of sleep in three days.
Haunting. Gut-wrenching.Utterly shame-enducing.In Hiroshima Hersey has cobbled together the tales of a handful of survivors and woven them effortlessly through his narrative to create a spellbinding history lesson not to be forgotten. The engrossing eye-witness stories are horrifying, too real, and charged with emotion and drama without the least bit of induced melodrama. There's no need. Hiroshima shows that truth is far more terrible than fiction.
The book is stronger as a result, showing the full range of horrors caused by the dropping of an atomic bomb -- in particular on six people we come to know and care about deeply.It speaks to Hersey's talents as a writer that, despite the tragic subject matter and the physical and emotional turmoils he recounts, we the readers don't want the book to end, because that means leaving Miss Sasaki, Dr. Fujii, Mrs. Nakamura, Father Kleinsorge, Dr. Sasaki (no relation to Miss Sasaki) and the Reverend Tanimoto behind.
Chapter 5 is the John Hersey follow up 40 years later telling the story of the main characters after the original magazine article in 1946.
Read a physical edition published after 1989 for a more complete picture.*********After reading a note written by a German Jesuit priest who survived the atomic bomb at Hiroshima, John Hersey located him and was introduced to five other survivors and documented their stories.
This was a new horror, the face of nuclear war to which Americans were vastly ignorant until John Hersey made the world aware.I also read complaints at Amazon that the article was unbalanced because Hersey did not list Japan’s war crimes, especially the Nanking Massacre, or that because of these war crimes the people of Hiroshima and Nagasaki got what they deserved.
১৯৪৫ সালের ৬ অগাসট, সকাল সোয়া আটটায় পৃথিবীর পরথম পারমাণবিক বোমাটি বিসফোরিত হল জাপানের হিরোশিমা শহরে। মানুষজনকে নিরাপদে মেরে ফেলার সহজতম উপায় আর কী হতে পারে? বোমা বিসফোরণের কেনদরে ৬০০০ ডিগরি সেনটিগরেড তাপমাতরা ছিল। ৪ কিলোমিটার বযাসারধের সবকিছু ঝলসে যায়। মারা যায় লকষাধিক, যার ২৫% সাথে সাথে, ৫০% পরের কয়েকদিনে আর বাকিটুকু বছর গড়িয়ে।বিসফোরণের হাইপোসেনটারের ৫০০ মিটারে কোন মানুষের চিহন খুঁজে পাওয়া যায়নি, উবে যাবার আগে দেয়ালে কিছু ছায়ামূরতি তৈরি হয়েছিল! জন হারসে আমেরিকান সাংবাদিক, ১৯৪৬ সালে হিরোশিমা গি
সরকারি হিসেবে, ‘৪৩ এর কোমল গণহত্যায় ৩০০০০০০ টি মানুষ না খেয়ে মারা গেল। কার তাতে কী?ইম্পেরিয়াল জাপান আর্মি যুদ্ধের খারাপ অবস্থা দেখে হাতে নিয়েছে সুইসাইডাল মিশন 'কামিকাজি'। একজন বৈমানিক, একটা যুদ্ধজাহাজ এই নীতিতে বিমানে বোমা বেঁধে সোজা পতিত হত জাহাজে। প্রায় দেড় হাজার তরুণ বৈমানিককে এই মিশনে ঠেলে দিয়েছিল জাপান আর্মি। সফলতার সাথে আমেরিকান নেভির প্রায় ৪০০ জাহাজ ধ্বংস করে এই কামিকাজি'র পাইলটেরা। জাপানের যুদ্ধ'বাজে'রা ভেবেছিল এই স্পিরিট দেখে অন্তত আমেরিকানরা পিছিয়ে যাবে। কিন্তু পার্ল হারবারে ২৫০০ মানুষকে আকস্মিক হত্যার ক্রোধ রুজভেল্ট ভোলেননি। জাপানি সামুরাইদের বিশ্বাস, মৃত্যু হবে পালকের মতো হালকা আর পরাজয়ের গ্লানি পাহাড়ের মতো ভারী। তাই নিশ্চিত হারও স্বীকার করতে নারাজ জাপান।এই স্পিরিট শুধু আর্মির নয়, জাপান-সম্রাট, আপামর জনগন,সবার!
Using a simple prose reminiscent of such writers as Yasunari kawabata, John Hersey basically splits the book in two, firstly we have the immediate aftermath of events where widespread panic and confusion are placed on those who managed to survive and try to grasp just what is going on around them, and rather than go into too much detail regarding the actual deaths which were just horrific, Hersey mainly pays attention to those frantically looking for loved ones or those able enough to help.
If I could be granted just one wish, world peace would be the only thing on my mind, and today we need it more than ever as there doesn't seem to be a day that goes by without an atrocity taking place somewhere.
The reactor collapse was made public days after the explosion and only because, in Sweden, at an another nuclear facility noticed increased radioactivity levels on their own clothes and figured out something nasty must have happened in the eastern block.
That's my own, little, nuclear story.
Nothing in comparison to Hersey's Hiroshima.
Hersey's second by second account of the bombing has a feel of Armagedon.
It turns out nobody was left unaffected.There's the poor government handling of the survivors.
Hiroshima was pretty much left to tend to its own needs.
There's the initial unwillingness of health professionals to provide help to Hiroshima victims.
“Do not work primarily for money; do your duty to patients first and let the money follow; our life 
یک کتاب از هر کشور: 2.
ژاپن فکر نکنم کسی باشه که از این فاجعه چیزی به گوشش نرسیده باشه.
اسم شهر هیروشیما و ناکازاکی همیشه بمب اتم رو همراه با خودش میارهولی اینکه بودن در شهری که بالای سرش اولین بمب اتم منفجر میشه و حداقل صد و پنجاه هزار نفر رو می کشه ولی تو به طرز عجیبی زنده می مونی چطوریه؟ چه چیزهایی می بینی؟ چی میشه که نجات پیدا می کنی؟تعدادی از نجات یافته ها تجربه هولناکشون رو شرح می دن.
از نور درخشان، از حرارتی چندین برابر خورشید، از شدت تخریب و پدیده های عجیبی که فقط یک بمب اتم می تونه به و
از نور درخشان، از حرارتی چندین برابر خورشید، از شدت تخریب و پدیده های عجیبی که فقط یک بمب اتم می تونه به وجود بیارهبیماری رادیواکتیوی، موهای در حال ریختن، سوختگی، پوستی که از بدن جدا میشه و آدم هایی که از شدت اشعه ها سلول هاشون پاشیده میشه و در حالی که سالم به نظر میان میمیرندهمه ی این ها اما فقط یک شروعه.
تسلیم شدن به کشوری که از جنگ جهانی برای امتحان کردن بمب هاش استفاده کرده و سال ها تلاش برای بازسازی و مواجه شدن با عوارض ژنتیکی رادیواکتیو  چیزی که هیچوقت بهش عادت نمی کنماینکه در جنگ میشه چه کار هایی کرد و از عواقبش برای همیشه فرار کردفقط تصور کنید که بمب های اتم امروزی قدرتی 3000 برابر بیشتر از بمب های گذشته دارند۹۵.۱۲.۲۶
I always wondered if those atomic bombs had not been dropped, would that have increased the chances some other president or other country might have dropped one later in history?
Did they serve as a deterrent once everyone witnessed the results?
Or this question: If there were survivors, why not practice hiding under your desk?
Or this: If you were a soldier fighting the Japanese, would you want the bombs dropped?
The Japanese avoided using the word "survivors." Instead, they were called "hibakusha," which means "explosion-affected persons." I read this book once long ago.
This second read has lost none of the power.
Most painful and most disturbing even after seventy years. KOJIRI Tsutomu; Shrine gate and the Hiroshima Dome.[Image taken from Children of the Atomic Bomb; used without permission](see status updates for more images)
It is not often that I find myself unable to convey the magnitude of importance a book has - but that is exactly where I am at when trying to describe this book. Read it - look at our world - try to get others to read it - hopefully a critical mass of common sense will implode in our collective hearts.
Very good book where the author follows the lives of several survivors of the bombing of Hiroshima.4 Stars = It gave me much food for thought.
We've all heard about the Atomic bomb, whether it's the Scientific or Military point of view, it's always referred to as something majestic and always entails awe and power.
John Hersey's journalistic master-piece uses a different approach, it uses the humanistic view towards the use of the Atomic bomb on Hiroshima.
"The atomic bomb is all but incredible." This article/book is the most celebrated piece of literature that came out of World War 2 because it shows the truth of the matter.
This is the detailed account of 6 very lucky people who were in Hiroshima the day the atomic bomb exploded and lived to tell their tales.
I think I would leave the readers to read about each survivor in the three chapters mentioned above as their post-explosion phases, in other words, as another understanding base to Chapter Five titled THE AFTERMATH, written 40 years later by the author who revisited Hiroshima to meet them and his "account of what he discovered about them is now the eloquent and moving final chapter of Hiroshima." (back cover)Again, I would cite a short extract from Chapter Five on Mrs Nakamura that sums up her view on her unimaginably unwelcome plight in which, I think, her words have subtly taught the posterity something:As Nakamura-san struggled to get from day to day, she had no time for attitudinizing about the bomb or anything else.
The day the Atomic Bomb was dropped on Hiroshima.
The story is told in the days before and after and gets you thinking about more than just the minutes during the actual detonation.
In the days leading up to the event many planes fly over, some drop bombs but the Japanese go about their daily business, only scattering if it lands in the same building or neighborhood.
Just think of the confusion and horror when the big one is dropped, the searing heat, the wild winds, the complete destruction and the death.
This is one of those books I meant to read years ago but never found the time, even considering the short length.
I knew the book began as an article Hersey published in The New Yorker, roughly one year after the events described.
I have read more terrifying accounts but I am sure at the time of publication this was an effective piece of journalism.
But from the viewpoint of getting the American people to begin to fathom the repurcussions of the bombs, and considering it was 1946, I feel Hersey should have taken greater liberties.
More people should read this.
Today's world leaders, especially Trump, should read this book.
Just saying...Those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it.Read this with my soon to be 9th grader and found it worthwhile as it is a great book to provoke discussion of the real costs of war, human and otherwise, as well as the complex moral issues surrounding the dropping of the bomb in the first place.There was also an interesting albeit minor topic that presents itself in the last section of the book in which one of the survivors is involved in a decade-long campaign to raise money for those directly affected by the bomb.
This book had its disturbing moments but it was very exciting.The book described the experience that these six survivors had after the atomic bomb was dropped on the city,Hiroshima. Jhon Hersey included even the smallest but most dramatic details from their stories. Not just researching but to acctually talk to the people who witness this horrible event was brilliant. It is a serious and definitly captivating book.I truly reccomend this book to those who enjoy exciting world histroy book.
The horrifying testimonies of six civilians in the days after the first atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, included are an impressive set of pictures, particularly chilling are the before and after photos. A must read.
A lively city that was touted to be the capital of Japan at the fall of Tokyo in World War II was in a moment turned into a dead city with nothing but ruins.A Sample Picture:The devastation conceded some the existence of some 'survivors' - the Japanese government did not want to use the word survivors for it was in a way rendering disrespect to those who had perished.
In spite of such great damages to their city and to their own lives, it is recorded that none of the Japanese spoke anything against their government for entering into the war.

I read this very quietly.
Quietly as in with careful consideration of the words Hersey uses.
It’s a book that reads very serenely.
Isn’t that strange and awful?Hiroshima covers the stories of six survivors of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima, Japan on 6th August, 1945.
This is one of those brief covered topics in school that is difficult to talk about even 70 years after the event.
Difficult because it shouldn’t be so hard to separate the government from it’s people, yet it is.Give this a read if you ever want something that will make you question the world we live in.
It’s a very good read, I promise you.
It is told through the lives of six people – a Christian priests, two doctors, a mother of three and a clerk.
John Hershey gives us a short account of the lives of each character and what they were doing on the morning that the bomb hit.
All of them live in a constant state of anxiety because Hiroshima is one of the few places that have not been bombed.
We stocked food (in the book, the Christian priest helps his friend and daughter move valuable stuff to another house in case there is a bombing).
El autor explica que no significa sobreviviente, si no "persona afectada por una explosión".Este libro parte de aquella primera bomba (apenas menciona la de Nagasaki), y va intercalando las historias de 6 hibakushas: un metodista, un misionario alemán, una joven oficinista, un doctor joven y abnegado, un doctor maduro y menos abnegado, una viuda de guerra y sus hijitos.
Una y otra vez se van intercalando las historias, que llegan a cubrir la vida y muerte de estas personas hasta aproximadamente 1985.
Hay una especie de hilo invisible que atraviesa todo el libro y son las ideas religiosas: de los 6 sobrevivientes, la mitad son cristianos.
Robert Oppenheimer (My review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...)********************************Remember, my rating is in no way a judgment of the suffering of those who lived through or died as a result of the events that occurred in Hiroshima on August 6, 1945.Although it does feel wrong to give this book anything but five stars, my reaction to it was not one of pure love.
It is a very clear description of exactly what happened that day to six Japanese people who lived through those events.
It is important to lo look beyond the event itself and look at how it changed forever the lives of those who survived.
Perhaps, at the time this story was published in its entirety by the New Yorker, there was little knowledge or comprehension in the West about the horrible effects of this "greatest achievement of organized science in history" (excerpt from statement by US President Harry Truman who ordered the bombing); and so there was a widespread reaction to its publication.Today, we all know already the horrors visited on the people of Hiroshima (men, women, children alike, including foreign missionaries).
As such, the writer's approach left me feeling a little detached from the people he wrote about.
A very interesting non-fiction, heart-rending story of the dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, Japan in August of 1945. It follows six people who survived, and the story is told in such a way that the reader can follow what happened chronologically through time and see what the people there went through. So sad :'(
হিরোশিমা আর নাগাসাকি, মানব সভযতার দুটো লজজার নাম। কী হয়েছে, কেন হয়েছে ইতযাদির পেছনে অনেক যুকতি বা অনেক বযাখযা দাঁড় করাবার চেষটা করা হতো আগে, এখন মনে হয় তাতে কাজ হবে না ধরে নিয়ে গিলটি পারটি দোষ সবীকার করেই নেয়। সেই লজজাজনক ইতিহাসের বিসতারিত বিবরণ এই বই।পরথমে বলি বইটার ভালো দিক নিয়ে- আমি সাধারণত নন-ফিকশন বই পড়তে পারি না। এর আগে কয়েকটা টরাই করেছিলাম, টানেনি। সেই হিসেবে এটাই পরথম। জন হারসি সাংবাদিক বলে, ভেবেছিলাম এটাও পরবনধ মতো হবে। কিনতু পড়তে গিয়ে সেই ভুল ভেংগে গিয়েছে। একেবারে গলপের আদলে লেখা বই। ঘ
হিরোশিমা আর নাগাসাকি, মানব সভ্যতার দুটো লজ্জার নাম। কী হয়েছে, কেন হয়েছে ইত্যাদির পেছনে অনেক যুক্তি ব
