https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397867.The_Rats
By gnawing through a dike, even a rat may drown a nation.Edmund BurkeThere are rats and then there are RATS. A scientist has brought back an oversized rat from a radioactive island, and he begins breeding it with the local London rats. These rats are famous in their own right for bringing down London more than once with plague in the long, distant past. Obviously, we all need bigger rats, right? That would be a negatory. Rats do what rats do best which is out rabbit rabbits in the area of fornic
These rats are famous in their own right for bringing down London more than once with plague in the long, distant past.
It doesn’t take long for an army of gigantic rats to emerge from the sewers and the underground and begin to attack the most plentiful species in London...rather tasty British people.
The rat leaped out, not at me, though at the time I thought he was coming for my eyes.
He received a lot of harsh criticism for his graphic depictions of mutilations from the rats attacking people.
Dachshunds were dressed up in rat suits, which sounds weird enough to make me want to see the movie.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Gory, shocking, and moderately offensive, The Rats reads like a campy B-movie train wreck one doesn't want to watch but cannot look away from.
Sure, the rats might have been selectively bred to be giant and vicious, but they are still rats: they are still little bundles of loveliness with their little ears and cute noses.
Sure, you might say they are disease carriers and pests, but in reality who pesters who?
As with all animals in the modern world, their natural environment has been drastically reduced so they flock to our cities and our streets.
Rather than looking to destroy such animals, more humane alternatives should be perused.I'm going on a political rant here about ecology, but the point is rats aren't scary and this book is shit.
Pack up your bags and run,  my friend, because oversized Rats are here.... And they are really hungry.Welcome to London, the ground zero of a terrible rat infestation. Nope, Ratatouille rat infestation was almost cute. This is much worse! Let me put it this way. If you are on the streets, You'd have a better chance surviving a Zombie apocalypse than this rat invasion! Not only they can devour you in minutes, a bite from these mutant bastards will infect and kill you within 24 hours!This is a bl
And they are really hungry.Welcome to London, the ground zero of a terrible rat infestation.
Nope, Ratatouille rat infestation was almost cute.
The book works because of its old-school charm, an overload of blood and gore, thrilling chases and near death experiences.
A rat sat in his lap gnawing a hole into his stomach.
All the Rat attacks were fun to read, especially the Train, Cinema hall and of course, the school scenes!
Overall, Rats rule the book.
A worthy read if you are into macabre.And in case you find yourself stuck in a world full of killer rats, I suggest you find this guy and join him.
I listened to this on audio and have to say it's pretty entertaining, in an upper class, hoighty-toighty kind of narration, we get to know various characters some very quickly as they get, well, eaten and a few others that are in it for the long run.
Decent story, enjoyable horror, plenty of cringing and I have to say, where would we be without the hero that decides to go it alone, bravely, stupidly going into the most dangerous of situations.
But it was entertaining and the rats were sweet, I've got the second in the rats story and I'll be on it soon.Also posted at http://paulnelson.booklikes.com/post/...
They had tasted their first human blood."There's a new breed of rat in London, England, and they're bigger, more intelligent and more vicious than their predecessors.
The pace is pretty relentless with the rats getting their teeth and claws stuck into humans right from the beginning.
These rats travel in packs too, so there really is no getting away.An aspect of the book that I didn't expect was the humour, although at times I'm not sure if the humour was intentional or not.
When I bought The Rats I wasn't aware it was part of a trilogy, but now I'm definitely interested in reading the other two books.
Era și ăsta un fel de a o descrie.
La treizeci și doi de ani se întorsese și preda unor copii care erau replicile lui fidele din tinerețe.
La început, nemernicii ăia mici încercaseră să-i dea bătaie de cap, pentru că desenul reprezenta pentru ei o oră de joacă și oricine l-ar fi predat era considerat un ciudat.
Îi luase atât de tare, încât le era teamă să și șoptească în prezența lui.""Închise ușa și se îndreptă repede spre scări.
Intră, închise ușa în urma lui și se strecură în jos pe scări.
Pe culoar nu era nici o mișcare.
Holy heck, this was  brutal. Herbert's writing is brilliant, and the story launches straight into the action, with rats having their fill of human flesh in the first chapter. What follows is basically a near-200-page massacre.The plot is so incredibly simple: mutant rats are attacking people and devouring them in horrific ways. There's nothing particularly smart about it, but what it lacks in intelligence it makes up for in graphic, gory detail.I really enjoyed the way Herbert introduces charact
There's nothing particularly smart about it, but what it lacks in intelligence it makes up for in graphic, gory detail.I really enjoyed the way Herbert introduces characters, giving you a bit of their backstory so you get attached.
It's quite interesting to consider how divided we can be as a whole society, considering we are all human, and this book explores that brilliantly by creating the 'us-vs-them' storyline.
If you're a raging feminist, this book is gonna make you mad with all the stereotypes.If you're a bit squeamish, this is likely to give you nightmares, but I'd highly recommend to anyone who appreciates simple, gory horror.
"Something landed on his bonnet with a thump causing him to swing round to the front again. One of the giant rats was staring at him through the windscreen, its evil face almost level with his own, the distance between them only two feet, a thin sheet of glass his only protection.  THE RATS....not your average ordinary big rats....but ugly humongous bristled creatures larger than a dog....attacking type creatures with teeth like electric saws and a taste for human blood. They first arrive in th
THE RATS....not your average ordinary big rats....but ugly humongous bristled creatures larger than a dog....attacking type creatures with teeth like electric saws and a taste for human blood.
There's blood and gore galore, but there's also a decent storyline and a few subplots that deliver until the first devoured victims are discovered and the true power of the first bite realized.
THE RATS is a horror of a read, a true thriller and a great classic addition for your October picks that does actually have a few laughs and a bit of sex....BUT....you must be willing to handle some tough to swallow gruesome times involving small children and animals other than....THE RATS!
This is a old fashioned Horror book and just having revisited in perhaps 30 years time makes me realise how weel it is written and how good a scribe James Herbert actually is.
In between the main story you get the experiences of various people who are fleshed out well enough to make you care about them and then picture them under attack.The book might be considered old school but even if it is rather short perhaps for a decent yarn these days the book has got a serious kick and as it has to be an nice ending that remains open for future installments.
This was probably a massive oversight on my part, given that this was the book that defined a genre!Herbert's The Rats gives a chilling insight to what a world overrun, with the creatures that bear their name in the title, would look like.
Herbert never once took his foot off the pedal and the reader is raced through to the grand finale, which too leaves a sour taste in the mouth, although in the most chilling and best possible way.
This modern horror classic still certainly has the ability to appeal to its modern-day readership and compete with the its predecessors in the genre.
The Rats is pure horror goodness. Unrelenting, unapologetic horror. Babies, puppies, giraffes, nothing is safe from the teeming mass of mutant rats that are terrorizing London. 5 squirming stars.
Old school horror fun! This was the kind of book that I read as a teen in the early 80s that caused me to become a life long fan of horror. A rollicking good time. :)
It will make the review significantly more entertaining.So, James Herbert was an awesome horror author.
The book is structured almost like a series of short stories, with most chapters being random citizens chased/devoured by rats in a new and creative way, while our lead just happens to tie together everything together in a few interconnected chapters.Also, with the exception of the last chapter, there’s very little in terms of tension building.
With all complaints aside, it is a very entertaining read, which is really all I can ask for from a book about killer rats.
A new breed of rat, which is larger, more intelligent and far more vicious, starts to appear in London, England.
These new rats start their killing from the very start of the book to the end.
It's a cast of characters trying to figure out where the rats are coming from and trying to eliminate them.
Easier said than done however.The book is dark and brutal all the way through with the menace of the rats being very impressive; they're a real malevolent force that just won't go away and is always near.
Rats by James herbert is horror at its very best i loved this book sent chills down my spine i hate rodents & reading this i hate RATS even more.well written no wonder this book sent Herbert career sky rocketing blood sucking rats devour everything in their wake even a baby that made me sick what else can i say BLOODY BRILLIANT 5 big stars
Good old fashioned mutant animals run amok horror. The writing was somewhat thin, but the story was fun, and there are two sequels to look forward to. As far as Herbert goes, this is only the fourth or fofth of his sizeable canon I have read. I enjoyed The Fog was similar in construct and plot, and I liked it a little better.
My English teacher took exception to this idea and told me “I don’t like James Herbert, you’ll have to review THIS instead,” and handed me a copy of something that was no doubt more worthy as a piece of literature, but to a thirteen year old was utterly dull.This was like a red rag to a bull – if she didn’t approve, then they must be worth reading!
The ending is pretty good, and it was one of the few parts of the book that I had any kind of memory of at all.With all these criticisms in mind, however, it’s still a bloody good read, and I shall be revisisting its two sequels in the near future, along with such other gems as ‘The Fog’ and ‘The Dark’.
In this horror story by James Herbert rats have mutated to the size of dogs and kill off humans.
I like that it starts with the first kill, that means you are with the story from the start and see how these rats evolve.
I liked the characters but I thought sometimes they made weird choices.
In the beginning this woman , is introduced and I thought she had quite a special story, almost 20 pages where dedicated about how she got where she is.
I am not going to read the sequel because I am not really interested in a continuation off this story, this book told it all.
It was exactly what I needed at the time to propel me back into the world of reading for fun so I have fond memories of all the James Herbert books that I am now revisiting 15 years later.
This book is really great, from the cover (I bought the 1980 edition with the giant rat on the front) it looks kind of like a cheesy cult horror movie poster but this book has a lot of action, the story moves quickly but makes you want to read more, it's fact-based and well researched (there were never giant killer rats but it does provide some credible info on the times when rats were spreading the plague back in the middle ages), the characters are likeable, there is never a dull moment in this book, I really loved it.
It does get a little bit preachy about how we should "save the natural environment" though.
Nevertheless, this is still an excellent little horror novel and definitely worth reading if you ever get the chance to read a copy.
Three and half starsI read The Fog a few months ago and I was curious about The Rats, the first novel from the author and a success that made Mr. Herbert instantly known; and when I saw it in the Kindle Flash discounts, I could not resist.
It is intersting how the author describes (very well) de daily life of some London citizens as a resource to give realism to the novel (of course before becoming victims of the rats!), although this can divert a bit the attention from the main plot..
Twice on the book he commands her to make him a meal, rest of the time he just tells her about the amazing dangers he experienced fighting the rats.
Through the book groups of students are described in gender binary, when the school is attacked the girls are scared and the boys excited.Literally the only female character that gets any spotlight is a hobo that is about to be attacked.
Literally a man with such a big dick that it made her have an orgasm for the first and apparently only time.This book is mediocre shit.
The first of the Rats trilogy, A special 40th anniversary edition of the classic, bestselling novel that launched James Herbert's career.I read this book many years ago in some form of paperback and quite enjoyed it. This is a beautiful hard cover edition with a die cut cover published by Pan Macmillan, so how could I pass it up.6/1/15 Update.I purchased the Centipede Press set also which are a set of 3 Herbert books.This is number 40 of 300 signed numbered copies, signed by:James HerbertJason C, EckhardtDavid HoStephen Jones
Muy bueno! Hay escenas que dan todo el mal rollo del universo (el tren, el zoo...) y los ataques de las ratas son descritos con todo lujo de detalles. Ideal para leer antes de ir a dormir, vamos 😂.
I would have been looking for some science-fiction, but what I found was The Rats!I'd never read a "proper" horror story before, so why I picked this, I'm not sure.
Whatever the impetus, I bought Herbert's book.I knew that my dad wouldn't have allowed me to read a book of this type, so I resolved to read it all in one go before going home from the park.
I was staunchly anti-littering thanks to the Keep Britain Tidy campaignAnd so this is why I've never read another "proper" horror book: No more Herbert; no Stephen King (actually, maybe one Richard Laymon, but I can't remember which, so it obviously didn't impress), etc.
The Rats is, without doubt, the BEST horror novel I have ever read in my whole life.
James Herbert certainly knows how to write a good page turner, and this talent is brilliantly borne out in his subsequent novels, especially Lair (the direct sequel to The Rats) and The Fog.Often imitated by the many animals-on-the-rampage books which resulted from its success, but never bettered, The Rats stands alone as being the ULTIMATE horror story of what happens when the animal world turns against mankind.
James Herbert's debut horror novel about killer mutant rats terrorizing London may sound somewhat corny, but this slim novel shows an early work but one of the true masters of modern horror fiction.
Mild sociopolitical dialogue is at play here, as those responsible for the postwar slums getting out of control point fingers, and a ragtag team of rat exterminators attempt to thwart the threat from spreading...but the truth behind the mutant rats is both inventive and chilling!
La historia empieza con diversas escenas donde los personajes van siendo liquidados por una sanguinarias ratas negras de un tamaño mayor al habitual, y que además parecen poseer inteligencia.
Si hay un protagonista, este es el joven profesor Harris, que se verá envuelto en situaciones de los más peligrosas.
El panorama no pinta bien, ya que las ratas van proliferando, así como sus masacres.
Además, cualquiera que sea mordido, muere a las 24 horas.‘Las ratas’ (The Rats, 1974), primera novela del británico James Herbert, me ha gustado bastante.
El ritmo es muy bueno, trepidante hacia el final.
Harris was a bit full of himself at times but I had to cheer for someone!There are tons of rats causing chaos and death in London and this is a nightmare for most people.
Most people do not look on these creatures with fondness.Seriously, can you imagine the city of London being infested with large deadly rats that like to eat humans and animals?!
If you like your horror with scary creatures, this might be a fun book for you to read.I’ll definitely be continuing to the next book in the series so I can hate rats even more.
