https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/479572.Anarchy_State_and_Utopia
However tempting such an idea is, Nozick's self-contradictory approach is seriously flawed in an economic sense, where the theory's broad promises dissolve upon contact with reality like a porcelain vase struck by a brick.Nozick begins with an exposition of John Locke's right of property, Kant's Categorical Imperative, and the economists of the Austrian School (Friedman, Hayek, etc.).
Nozick offers them no answer or comfort.The end result of this system is the one which unabashedly states that Money is Power.
However, this approach consistently ignores the power of money and of corporations as well.
This book had a huge impact on me when I read it at the age of 22 as a post-grad student of political philosophy.
It is really only know, at the age of 44, that I realise quite how much Bob Nozick's master-work has shaped my thinking on the state, politics and society over the past 22 years.I came to the book with preconceptions - Nozick was neo-liberal and Hayekian.
I didn't want to agree with his arguments but I couldn't help but admire them!I did write a 'counter-blast' essay based on the premiss that Marx could not be criticised within the paradigm of 'liberal thinking' - ie.
Any other goods or services should be provided by private actions (business or donations), and any redistribution of wealth is a violation of property rights.
Nevertheless, the overall view is highly implausible and supported by very weak arguments.Nozick begins with a thought experiment involving a Lockean state of nature—one composed of morally decent people who recognize and (for the most part) respect absolute natural rights of life, liberty, and property.
(So there will be fees instead of taxes.) Nozick defends a laissez-faire form of distribution and argues that any form of redistribution, through taxation and entitlement programs, violates an absolute right to property and amounts to forced labor.
This is a work of political philosophy arguing for minimal government, the libertarian counterpart and answer to the liberal John Rawls' A Theory of Justice.
In other words, yes, this is the work of a professional academic, a Harvard professor of philosophy who wrote the kind of rigorous book used in graduate studies--it even won the National Book Award.
When an amount A in addition to f(H) is expended in self-defense, the punishment which later may be inflicted is reduced by that amount and becomes r X H - A.
Finally, there will be some specification of a rule of necessity which requires one not to use more in self-defense than is necessary to repel the attack.
This book is a must-read in order to sharpen your thought.
Philosophy is all about debating in which you have to understand both sides to be able to ‘deconstruct’ whatever you want to deconstruct (under the rule that you must respect both sides!).
I think Nozick’s idea is very important as well as Rawls’s idea, both of them really contributed some good ideas to the world of political philosophy.
I like Nozick’s idea (which is radical, but really straight-forward - it draws clear), and I think it can be develop further.
It is clear that this book is a rough sketches of what he was thinking...
T_T I want to read more.
Nozick was a philosopher-for-rent. His theories were built on demand to provide justification for an increasingly unequal society where the richest few control all decisions and accumulate more and more wealth, and the poor wither. The reader is expected to believe that this is how it should be. If Nozick was smart, he was not honest. If he was honest, he certainly was not smart.
The first 40-50 pages were almost unreadable.
A few clear statements surrounded by almost impossible to understand or follow statements that just did not seem well connected or to logically prove anything.I was actually very disappointed, since I had heard so many positive things about the book for over 35 years.
I even had some positive memories of when I read some of it about 30 years ago.Our South Bay Libertarian Book Club discussed the first part last Sunday and almost everyone had similar comments about how disappointing the book was.One positive: around pages 50-60, he started getting much clearer and more logically connected.
But I essentially ran out of time and interest and am not sure I will ever get back to it.
I wish more libertarians would actually read this book and acknowledge that this is not a road map for policy making or even directly transferable to a non-hypothetical world.
Nozick makes a powerful case against re-distribution, but even he points out that his theory only works where distribution has not been unjustly accomplished in the first place.
Nozick also (justifiably) criticizes Rawls for making assumptions about first principles that are not self-evident; but Nozick does some of this as well and ultimately his step-by-step account of how justice is constituted is far simpler but no more persuasive than Rawls's.
It's just a lot more fun to read!
Five stars. Nozick's style is great. He just loves to fool around with various ideas. Most of his conclusions are more like "it seems like logic is suggestive of X" statements. Yet he is also a very formal and dense writer (I don't see these as negatives, especially in this case). He also puts in so many caveats that even his offensive conclusions are not so offensive.
They were introduced to the movement by Ayn Rand, Ron Paul, Murray Rothbard, or Stefan Molyneux, but none that I talked to was introduced to it by Nozick.
With it, Nozick demonstrates that a minimal state is compatible with libertarian principles, that you don't have to go all the way towards anarchism like Rothbard did.
This was one of the main gripes that Rothbard had with Nozick.The worst problem, of course, the one I already touched upon at the beginning, is that Nozick made his compensation-principle up.
Very thought provoking book.
His attempted critiques of utilitarianism didn't go much beyond the classic 'Utility Monster' and 'Experience Machine' thoughts experiments, both of which I've found to be unconvincing, though they are interesting to think about and shed light about our instincts and natural impulses, and how clearly they can diverge from logically moral conclusions.
Regardless, Nozick no doubt seems to have a lot to offer regarding this intellectual realm, particularly for libertarians looking to strengthen their arguments.
Looking forward to reading his next book!
There seems to be some very important fundamental issues and modes of discussion raised that seem to be all but ignored in a lot of discourse.
I love how Nozick digs down into the assumptions upon which all kinds of theories of government and justice are based, which people don't even realize they're making and certainly don't state out loud.
Nozick forces us to break down our theories, fills in the gaps between what we're saying.
Although he does make his arguments about the state and justice and so forth, even more important is his argument for how to come up with and evaluate arguments.
The political philosophy of libertarianism finds its best apology here, but the contents of the book, and the method of presentation will and has found application to other political philosophies, and to legal philosophy.In the first chapter, the author asks the reader to consider what he calls the "state-of-nature theory".
The game-theoretic, optimization-theoretic approach that the author takes, although not advanced and rigorous from a mathematical standpoint, is very straightforward to follow for those not familiar with the more analytical and formal aspects of many modern treatments of political science.In part 2 the author attempts to deal with alternatives to the minimal state, such as those proposed by the political philosopher John Rawls, and incorporating the doctrine of "distributive justice".
Robert Nozick presents an extreme logical book that is unquestionably the personification of analytical thought.
Anarchy, State, and Utopia is merely finding the logical consequence of natural rights in context of society.
The last part of his book, entitled "Utopia," turns around all the stale ideas of liberalism and provides the idea that in a "minimal state" there is the ability for socialist societies, anarchist, etc.
Only when large groups of individuals are united together can the market truly be changed, and thus society can only be reformed through the popular wishes, which would inevitably violate the rights of a portion of the society.
Under this thought experiment, you don't know upfront if you'll be the guy who gets given the good deal or the crappy deal, so you take it easy on the guys at the bottom of the distribution.
But the best argument against "patterned" allocations Nozick makes is a lot better than that.
It's something that follows very naturally from proving that there is no such thing as a universally acceptable "pattern" for distribution.
A lot of the time, reading "Anarchy, State and Utopia" feels like needing to hang up on a call from a lonely old relative, but not having the heart to do so.So this book does not flow in a straight line.
If you really think Rawls has said the last word on political philosophy, then it might be time to read this book.
In the first of the three parts, Nozick shows that the existence of the (minimal) state can be justified by the principle of compensation, just as well (or better) as by Rawls's principle of (re)distribution.
Nozick shows that this necessarily involves an end-state or a patterned view of the distribution of property in a society.
According to Nozick, it is better to think of the ethics of property as governed by the historical entitlement view.
The minimal state treats us as inviolate individuals, who may not be used in certain ways by others as means or tools or instruments or resources; it treats us as persons having individual rights with the dignity this constitutes.
Treating us with respect by respecting our rights, it allows us, individually or with whom we choose, to choose our life and to realize our ends and our conception of ourselves, insofar as we can, aided by the voluntary cooperation of other individuals possessing the same dignity.While the book is rife with interesting and challenging theories that deserve careful consideration, it also suffers from Nozick's frustratingly abstruse writing style.
Some of the arguments are marred by digressions, odd footnoting, and confusing formalizations.
wack
The author carefully proved moral possibility and necessity of the minimal state.
Even more rigorous he showed that all other types of government cannot exist without violation of basic rights.His analysis of redistributive systems is excellent.
But there are several problems with this work.First - mentioned by many critiques - the framework of the minimal state entirely depends on the set of the basic rights.
I don't think we can dispute that there isn't any source of legitimacy.
If there was a source then we wouldn't have to worry about fairness at all.
Fairness like beauty is better as a metaphysical guide than an enforced physical standard.
I do however, think that his pursuit of an analytical analysis stems from the same kind of ill-fated kind of origin as logical positivism in its insistence that its transcendental logics be of the same level/kind as the phenomenon it seeks to explain.
Nozick attempts to establish how government and property could be established without violating people’s rights to themselves and to nature, by starting with voluntary protection agencies who find it in their interest to submit to higher arbitration between themselves, members are compensated to not engage in risky behaviors, and services are offered to non-members.
Assuming self-ownership, the conditions are 1) original acquisition of unclaimed resources (homestead) 2) voluntary transfer of justly acquired things 3) no entitlement but thru repeated application of 1&2.
The Lockean proviso of not making others worse off by appropriation and transfer can justify limiting property rights and offer compensation though.
That means at the end of the season Messi has 1 million euros to feed his children just for being talented.
Take a hard-working man that puts all his effort in handling goods in a warehouse and gets 10 thousand euros at the end of the year to feed his children.
That is because the million people freely consented to give their 1 euro to watch Messi's talent, even though it has nothing to do with hard-work.
The warehouse worker might himself consent to give 1 euro to watch the extraterrestrial Messi.Nozick argues for a minimalist state that would only control means of coercion, protect people against theft, fraud, slavery and other magical human being constructs.
Nozick proves through moral logic (including plenty of propositions and equations) that the minimal libertarian state is the single desirable and natural end-state, that anything beyond that is immoral, and that the only utopian option suitable for diverse mankind, is only possible based on this state.
His work includes many of the arguments I've considered over the years (the possibiliy of private owners trapping someone by surrounding them; the implications taught in micro about compensating someone for their cost, while not realizing that provides additional indifference curve options).
The first part of this book, proving the minimalist state, is painstaking but rational.
Nozick's book is more readable than Rawl's A Theory of Justice but it is filled with incredibly bad arguments.
He basically says, "yeah I like the benefits of living in society, but I'm a dick so I don't want to pay for it." 3.
Would a salary cap violate Nozick's concept?
4. Nozick makes an analogy of ten separate men on a desert island to show that nobody deserves another's labor.
5. Nozick uses a "marriage" example to show how actions are still voluntary despite restrictions.
Except marriage isn't something you need to live and some people do not even want to get married.
This book is oddly constructed, focusing on tearing down all other points of view rather than constructing and elaborating upon Nozick's view of libertarianism.
Besides Nozick's position at Harvard, I have no idea why this book is presented as THE book promulgating the position of libertarianism.
There are, ultimately, several interesting passages throughout the work, such as the discussion of invisible hand processes, the Wilt Chamberlain argument, Nozick's challenge as to when slavery ends and when the state begins, and the final "book" discussing his conception of utopia.
I can't believe this absurd book is the bible of the libertarian right.
Honestly, it's intellectually embarrassing—a collection of ridiculous thought experiments built atop absurd assumptions.
Assume that differing-minded people can just geographically separate from one another!
Assume that people possess individual rights for which there can be no exceptions!
Assume that people all start with equal endowments of money, etc!
I sort of wonder whether the whole book is a kind of trolling exercise, an insincere set of political provocations from someone happily (free!) riding on the liberal utopia of a Harvard professorship.
I would say his most convincing arguments are in Part II where he explains why the minimal state is the most extensive state that can be justified.
Part I of the book explains why the minimal state itself can be justified and form spontaneously without violating anyone's rights via coersion.
While I agree with his conclusion that a minimal state is justified I didn't find the logical process of forming a state without coersion of any kind completely convincing.
However, as a whole, the book gives a very powerful case for the minimal state over any form of intrusive, collectivist government.
Nozick is well-known in political philosophy circles, and has much to offer.
Taken together with the writings of John Stuart Mill, Rawls, and maybe Chomsky, it is a good source of what many believe to be a modern movement in politics.
Before embarking on meaningless political rhetoric with those who would have you believe that they "have the answer", I would propose reading Nozick.
While Nozick seems to believe his ideas to realistic, they fall short for the reasons that John Rawls points out in his book "Justice as Fairness"
While this book did force me--as uninformed about basic political and economic principles as I am--to reconsider some of my assumptions about legislation and society in general, overall it was a pretty dreadful reading experience. Nozick lurches in and out of both relevance and comprehensibility, occasionally making an interesting point but more often than not drowning in his own verbosity. Only read this if you're interested in pursuing government or economics professionally... Otherwise, I suspect there's a better book to read if you want to familiarize yourself with some of the basic ideas Nozick so robotically lays forth here.
One of the very few philosophy books I ever had a hard time putting down. Nozick is just so damn enjoyable to disagree with. Every page has at least a dozen logical errors or horrible philosophical mistakes. In fact the entire method he uses to build his argument is pretty obviously, and glaringly, flawed. But AS&U is a lark to read. Philosophically the strongest part of the book is probably his critique of Rawls (pt. 3, I think), which actually does bring out some significant issues for John's theory.
