https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/617804.Mariana
"Mariana" has become one of my favourite books of this year so far!
Reading the chapters about her childhood kind of reminded me of the childhood scenes in "To Kill a Mockingbird" by Harper Lee, simply because they brought back the nostalgia of my own childhood and what it feels like to be little and free."Mariana" continues the narrative of Mary as we follow her into young adulthood and later adulthood.
And I'm thankful that I have another book by Monica Dickens waiting for me on my bookshelves :)
I really enjoyed this - an interesting coming of age story, looking at life in the 1920s and 30s. I really liked the character of Mary, and loved the exploration of different kinds of love.
While she waits to find out whether her husband is one of them, she takes refuge in thinking of her past: the vivacious mother and actor uncle who brought her up, the beautiful Elizabethan house belonging to her father's family, her education at a strict girls' school and a drama school, and her love affairs in England and Paris.
Just as One Pair of Hands and her other autobiographical works do, Mariana draws on Dickens' personal experiences: she too spent her holidays at an ancestral house, she too went to drama school, she too spent time in Paris after leaving school.
In 'Mariana', we follow a young girl growing up in the 1920s and 30s. We follow her infatuations, her precious memories, her dreams and disappointments. The book is beautiful, dreamy and a wonderful pleasure to curl up with. I enjoyed every single page and wished it would never end. People don’t want to read about people in heaven. They like to lick their lips over them in hell.I adored our protagonist, Mary. She appreciates the good things in life. She's passionate, creative and dreamy. Althou
With other people one was only an unconsidered fragment of the company; alone, one was a complete entity by oneself.'Mariana' is a wonderful novel that I would recommend to anyone who liked I Capture the Castle, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, 'Anne of Green Gables' and Jane Austen.
Or anyone who likes to read novels filled with dreams and creativity.She was nineteen and it felt wrong not to be in love.Monica Dickens is an - for me at least - unknown author, despite the fact that she has written tons of books and is Charles Dickens' great-granddaughter.
This is one of those comfort reads that take you back to a lovely safe place when it's miserable outside or you're ill or simply having a duvet day.
This is her second book, but her first novel.
Mariana (named for she of Tennyson's moated grange)is the spirited, but ultimately conventional daughter of a widowed mother, and brought up in shabby genteel circumstances.
During the novel she rambles through a series of romances,including an engagement to a wealthy French boy,until she finally discovers her soulmate.
You could also say that it's Bridget Jones's Diary for the 1930s.Some readers will find Mariana a little smug, but I didn't mind that too much.
Charming and highly readable. It was a tad predictable but Persephone novels have yet to disappoint me with wonderful observations of the time period and witty conversation I really connected with Mary as a heroine, it was a nice cozy read!
Mary Shannon has gone away to brood while her husband is at war in WW II.
During a storm she hears on the radio that her husband's ship has gone down; frantically, she tries to telephone to get news, but her line is down.
This is the second novel by Monica Dickens, the great- granddaughter of Charles Dickens, and she said that it was semi-autobiographical.Part of this book gripped me more than others.
As far as women authors went, Monica Dickens was only outsold at that time by Daphne du Maurier, however, her work hasn't remained as popular over time.
This novel (which borrowed heavily from Monica Dickens' own life, and was written when she was only 23) is set in one of my favourite eras: England between the world wars.
There is a frame around the story, in which the grown-up heroine is waiting to hear if her husband survived the bombing of his ship, but then we are immediately plunged into young Mary's childhood -- at Charbury, the quintessential family country home in Somerset.
Her Uncle Geoffrey, a lazy, feckless, but utterly charming actor, was an absolute scene-stealer.Hugely enjoyable to read, but it didn't have the emotional impact of The Winds of Heaven -- the first Dickens novel that I read.
From such a bleak beginning, the novel immediately lightens, going back to Mary’s idyllic childhood, the long summers spent amongst her cousins at Charbury, her bohemian dress-maker mother and her would-be movie star uncle – it becomes a comedy of manners, with the reader watching a young girl grow up in a world which knows that her ultimate fate is only ever going to be matrimony.There is more than the whiff of the memoir about Mariana, with many of the details drawn from Monica Dickens’ own life.
Mon avis : https://everydayreadingblog.wordpress...
Because she wanted to be quiet, to remember, to think.It was lovely watching Mary and Bingo settle in, lovely to be reminded of the depth of Monica Dickens’ understanding of character and of her talent for catching exactly the right details to paint a perfect picture.I was particularly taken with her understanding that a terrier can be sound asleep and alert at the same time …The peaceful scene was disturbed when Mary switched on the wireless, when she heard that her husband’s ship had been hit.
Mariana by Monica Dickens is a coming of age novel about a young girl, striving her whole life, to find the perfect love.
It’s a story that has great depth and one of the most striking endings I have read in the longest time.Mary lives with her working mother and uncle in a small flat in London.
Can Mary’s love survive the ordeal?While Mary is enrolled in drama school as a young girl, she is asked to recite Tennyson’s poem ‘Mariana’.
Mariana is a poem about a woman who is disconnected from society and despondently awaits the return of her love.
Absolutely delightful. This is a gentle coming of age tale, set between the two great wars. Mary finds love and loses love and finds and loses her way. She's absolutely charming, full of inconsistencies and idiosyncrasies. I read that this is a "hot water bottle" book, and indeed, it is.
Read 50 pages. Not for me.
Well I really enjoyed this book, it's the story of Mary who we first meet when she's about eleven.
There are a host of loveable charcters - one of my personal favourites being Uncle Geoffrey.
Of course as with many of these republished works that Persephone offer - some of the langauage is slightly non pc and rather dated - but you have set things in the context of the times they were written in and not mind too much - I love things written in the 20's 30's and 40's (this was originally first published in 1940) - although madly I often had the voice of Ceila Johnson ringing in my ears as I read - but that could just be me - I saw Mary as a younger Ceila Johnson I think.
I see why this novel captured the I Capture the Castle audience of its day. Monica Dickens is funny and breezy and so are her characters, and when she rambles on too long I forgive her, expect the horse-racing scene, which I yawned through, like the quidditch scenes in Harry Potter. There’s a fun storyline in which the protagonist gets a Parisian fiancé and soon learns, of course, that French urban and sartorial splendors can never compete with the heart-stopping beauty of British mud.
2.5* Excellent character development. More of a "this is a life" than a plot-driven novel, I might have given more stars if there had been an underlying theme that I could latch on to. Monica Dickens is a talented writer, though, and kept me interested throughout. A large cast of characters come and go in Mary's life, she tries acting, studies dressmaking in Paris - there is plenty to keep you turning the pages.
I suspect that how much I like a book very much depends upon where I am in a reading cycle.
But I really fell into the story and was totally absorbed by the travails of Mary from her jumping from a ha ha at the encouragement of the cousin, to school girl friendships, from fox hunting to drama school, from a Paris fashion house to misunderstandings and romances.
3.5 stars
The period details (especially the descriptions of the food and clothes) and Dickens's humour keep it from getting too boring.The first half of the book was painfully slow for me though, and only when Mary starts drama school things become more interesting.
In Mariana we follow the coming of age of an English girl called Mary, from childhood till becoming a married woman.
At the beginning of the book Mary is waiting on news from her husband (it's the middle of WWII) and starts reminiscing about her past life.
Mary is definitely not your typical book heroine ...
she's not beautiful, nor very intelligent, and in fact seems to possess no extraordinary feature at all.
But Monica Dickens manages to portray a very human and likeable character, and I enjoyed immensely reading about Mary's life.
Even the secondary characters are quite interesting (like Uncle Geoffrey).
Well-written story of a young English girl's coming of age in England before WWII. Unfortunately, the heroine disliked almost everyone else in the book, and that hostility along with some anti-Semitic comments turned me off a long way before the end.
Oh, I just loved this! Ordered 'The Winds of Heaven' by Monica Dickens straight after reading this. Maybe i'll be able to get my thoughts together and write a full review soon. But for now - undoubtedly, a new favourite.
4.5
http://abookadayparis.blogspot.fr/201...
Charming without being twee, and with a heroine one can root for.
Best book I've read in recent years
The ending, as many people have pointed out was the most memorable thing about this book.
It took me totally by surprise considering that the book itself was pretty predictable.
If you have read Persephone books before you know what to expect.
It is a comforting book to curl up with when it is rainy and gloomy outside.
However, it lacked the emotional intensity that I have found in other books by this publisher.
A decent read, but there are better ones from those series ("Someone at the distance" by Dorothy Whipple for example).
I guess this would be best described as a coming of age story, but I imagine this is what "chick lit" looked like in the 40's...Mary is definitely waiting for Mr Right (Bridget style).
As well as being amusingly unsure of herself, she's flighty and often desperate, but also incredibly endearing.
I couldn't help but get sucked into the trivialities of her life and peculiarities of family, which seem pretty timeless (if you ignore a few racist and anti-semitic references).
It's cosy and nostalgic and the kind of book I wish I'd read as a teenager.
Also, what a fascinating time period to peek into.
Quite bizarre.
I found this to be a pleasant, gentle, enjoyable look at life of a young girl growing up and trying her best to find her way in the world, and to find true love.The life of Mary is a normal one - she sees her world very clearly and doesn't seem to have big ambitions of venturing far from the traditional role of a woman in the 1920's/1930's.
She is out to have fun, to meet the man of her dreams and to have 26 children - giving them names to correspond with the alphabet!
The ending was extremely clever and powerful too!
