https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110050.We
يك اثر جذاب ديگر از رابرت جانسون كه به بررسي نحوه ي پيدايش و تحليل روانشناسي عشق رمانتيك بر اساس يك اسطوره ي يوناني پرداخته است . انتظار انسان امروزي از معشوق و فرافكني انيما و يا آنيموس دروني بر يك انسان فاني منجر به پيدايش انتظارات و روياهاي غير واقعي در مورد عشق رمانتيك شده كه موجب سردرگمي و سرخوردگي انسان در روابطش مي شود
The passion of love spiritualized the elect in anticipation of the ultimate transformation: Death.In contrast, through the influence of romantic love that has permeated Western culture, modern man places too much emphasis on anima/animus - the distorted, projected fantasy of a perfect person who complies with all demands and fulfills all dreams and expectations.
Human love transforms even the most mundane things into a joyful, fulfilling part of life.
Friends affirm rather than judge, back each other in tough times.Modern man longs for the transforming experience that gives life meaning and completeness.
this book made me re-think about what love, relationships and companionship mean.
He mentioned 'stirring the oatmeal' as a metaphor of human love, and it is absolutely true.
Here's my favourite part of the book : “Many years ago a wise friend gave me a name for human love.
She called it ‘stirring-the-oatmeal” love… Stirring oatmeal is a humble act—not exciting or thrilling.
To ‘stir the oatmeal’ means to find the relatedness, the value, even the beauty, in simple and ordinary things, not to eternally demand a cosmic drama, an entertainment, or an extraordinary intensity in everything.” (p.
Explains the roots of our modern notion of romantic love and why it's incompatible with everyday life.
Have an inner life where you explore and respect the sacred and your own soul, rather than expecting another person to embody that for you.
His wife, if she is not joining the fantasy, begins to realize that she is not so much a wife as the supporting cast in a gigantic stage play: the cosmic drama that goes on forever in her husband's inner world.
As I tried to rate this book just now, I hovered over the stars that read "It was okay" and "I liked it," back and forth, for a while.
In this case, he attempts to illuminate romantic love through the story of Tristan and Iseulde but he warns us female readers right at the top that he's not really talking about us.
Or even just adding a word to its current title, making it"Understanding the MALE psychology of romantic love" There, now I like it.
And I'll just have to wait til someone writes "WE: Understanding the FEMALE psychology of romantic love."
at least this is what eastern people does, but some of the eastern may break true the true rule and more to the western culture.
Book largely based on transactional analysis, using Tristan and Isolde as a foundation for analysis of delusional concept of love. I recommend this book to every person as I do all Johnson's books - He, She, Inner Work, Ecstasy, Transformation, and Owning Your Own Shadow. Johnson is a fine writer and great Jungian analyst.
I feel the following quotes summarize its message:“It is difficult for us to see the difference—the vast difference—between relating to a human person and using that person as a vehicle for one’s projection.”“But illusion is neither the inner world of psyche nor the external physical world.
We give birth to illusion by superimposing our inner world of images—our continuous stream of fantasy—on the external world and on the people who live there.
A partir de este evento, se genera una atracción irracional, salvaje e imposible de resistir, que representa al amor romántico con el que inicia toda relación de pareja.Como Tristan debe honrar su palabra, de llevar a Isolda ante el rey Mark: y, al mismo tiempo, obedecer los mandatos de su corazón, da inicio un proceso entre la razón y el enamoramiento.Posteriormente, Tristan conoce a otra mujer y se casa con ella, Isolda la de las Blancas Manos.
It's a wonder the human race has survived at all. We certainly do like to torment each other ...
So much food for thought, the myth of romantic love, I certainly go along with that, Johnson's explanation of how it came about & recommendations on how to overcome — acceptance of, completion of inner/unconscious self, the need for the sacred/religious — my reaction will take a while.
This book was recommended to me by my therapist and it was so incredibly eye opening.
It gives a whole new perspective of what romantic love is and what we have come to believe that it is.
It applies jungian principles to how we expect to play out the myths of fairy tales in our current love relationships.
Johnson uses the original fairy tale myth of Tristan and Iseult to illustrate how we expect our romantic love relationships to play out like a fairy tale.
Very thought provoking and highly recommended.
It gives a great perspective as to how we humans experience love. It also gives a good explanation of what is the difference between romatic love and, true and mature love. It talks about expectations, desires, passion, commitment, fears, etc. It helped me to understand why my love parners acted the way they did in our relationships, as well as why I kept fighting for those unfruitful relationships. Â¡Trully interesting!
This book was given to me by a friend, and I really found it interesting. Robert A. Johnson is a world renown Jungian analyst and psychologist, and his writing is clear, concise, and beautifully articulated. If you find romantic love, or just love in general, a topic of interest or exploration then I highly recommend reading this.
When I first picked up this book I thought "Great. It's another one of those books where they try to symbolize every bit of a story. I continued to feel that way until about the middle of the book when I was hit in the face with some pointed remarks regarding romantic love, it's illusions, and the secrets to a long-term relationship. I ended up loving the book. Highly recommended.
The book exposes and exemplifies dysfunctional love using a timeless and famous medieval love story. In turn, it helps you to understand true healthy love. I strongly recommend this book to all enthusiasts seeking for an explanation of Love.
I stumbled on this on my parent's bookshelves right around the same time I was starting to feel like falling in love was what life was all about. Johnson, a Jungian psychologist, uses mythology to explain psychological truths. For a analytical kid like me, perfect light reading.
Still the only self-helpish book I've ever read that actually changed my life and my view of relationships. We are using readings from this for our wedding.
I didn't really enjoy this book. Filled with a lot of stuff I didn't really understand and very little practical knowledge of which I didn't already know. I did enjoy the last chapter though.
I read this for its classroom value -- for both my Myth & Courtly Love classes. And it was useful and interesting. But I'm not a fan of Jung, so that bit got a bit old.
If we are committed only to follow where passion leads, then there can be no true loyalty to an individual person...A man is committed to a woman only when he can inwardly affirm that he binds himself to her as an individual and that he will be with her even when he is no longer "in love," even when he and she are no longer afire with passion and he no longer sees in her his ideal of perfection or the reflection of his soul." (103)"Projections are a law unto themselves.
Highly recommend. This should be a subject at school.
Here are the ideas highlighted with the medieval epic "Tristian and Iseult"."We" is a beautiful little book that combines Jungian psychology, the 12th century romance epic "Tristan and Iseult" and is founded on the wisdom of thoughtful professor.
Lovers love the spirit that is unreachable in another.Jung writes, "only what is separated can be combined".
His folly is not placing his realistic love with his partner, and his ideal love with his soul.
If only he could love "Iseult the Fair" as an ideal, and love "Iseult the white" as a woman, he could combine the two parts into a whole....the dilemmma of the real and the aspiration that affects any budding relationship."We" unleashes it's own passion.
Table of ContentsA Note on the Sources and Translation of the MythA Note for WomenIntroductionOn MythsPART I THE NARRATIVE 1.
Blanchefleur 2.
The Child of Sadness 3.
Islands of Consciousness, Seas of God 4.
The Sword and the HarpPART II THE NARRATIVE 5.
Approaching the Wine 6.
The Wine of Herbs 7.
Iseult the Fair 8.
The Love Potion in History 9.
Guile and ForcePART III THE NARRATIVE 10.
The Queen of the Inner World 11.
The Fourth Year of MoroisPART IV THE NARRATIVE 13.
Iseult of the Earth 15.
Iseult-Maya: The Dance of IllusionCONCLUSION 17.
Of Human Love
A well crafted exploration and explanation of Western views on romantic love and how it has become detrimental to the evolution of men and women. Author shows us the history through the detailed analysis of myth, deconstructs the romantic love notions Westerners hold and pits it against the innate needs of the anima and animus and finally offers a better solution, that while it seems to be common sense is also abundantly elusive in our world. Highlighter recommended.
"Πρέπει να μάθουμε ότι η ανθρώπινη σχέση είναι αδιαχώριστη από τη φιλία και τη δέσμευση. Να μάθουμε ότι η ουσία της αγάπης δεν είναι να χρησιμοποιούμε τον άλλον για να μας κάνει ευτυχισμένους, αλλά να υπηρετούμε και να αποδεχόμαστε εκείνον που αγαπάμε. Και τότε θ' ανακαλύψουμε με έπληξη πως ό,τι χρειαζόμασταν περισσότερο από οτιδήποτε άλλο όλους αυτούς τους αιώνες δεν ήταν να μας αγαπήσουν, αλλά να αγαπήσουμε."
Wonderful and eye-opening perspective on certain attitudes we have towards romantic love! Great, stereotype - bashing and freeing at the same time to love "humanly". One minus though - why, oh why is there so little about females and their perceptions on romance????
A great lesson, through fables and myths, of how 'romantic love' has overtaken 'human love' in the Western Psyche. This book offers insight into how this happened, and starting on a path towards separating the 2.
This was an insightful consideration of how a tale may represent more about a culture than it first appears. I enjoyed it as an English major, I was intrigued by it as a member of the Western civilization, and I felt challenged by it as I considered what I did and did not agree with.
this was a very insightful book for me...very insightful into my own relationship with my husband. I love the closing quote: "And we can discover, to our surprise, that what we have needed more than anything was not so much to be loved, as to love."
