https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128092.The_Pigman
i never read this book when it was age-appropriate for me to have done so, but i was convinced that it was about two kids who find out that their neighbor is a nazi war criminal.
i know it is not one i have read, it was just always the first thing that popped into my head when i encountered, and passed by, this title at my sadly underdeveloped local library as a kid, looking for more lois duncan.
and even though mfso told me i was wrong, and even though i have finished reading it, i am going to continue to believe it is actually about a nazi neighbor, so frankly mr.
This is a young adult book written in the 1960s and it shows its age in many ways. No mobile phone, and telephones with dials being just two examples. However the teenage ideals and behaviours are the same as today and the two main characters "suffer" the same traumas as they would in 2015. I enjoyed the character of the Pigman and despite everything that happens I was glad to see that he had some happy times. A quick easy read for an adult but still entertaining.
Although it was marketed as teen fiction and has teen protagonists, and certainly can be characterized (like a great deal of fiction, especially YA fiction) as a coming-of-age story, it's the sort of novel that speaks just as well to adults.
But neither of them, at their core, are genuinely bad kids (though Lorraine has a bit more of a moral compass than John does), and they're capable of learning from mistakes.In some ways, the culture of 2018, 50 years later, is significantly different from theirs (and mostly not for the better).
Laugh out loud funny at times. My favorite passage is the part where John glues his home's rotary phone dial to piss off his dad, but finds that he needs to make a call himself:"Yes?""Hello operator? Would you please get me Yul-1219?""You can dial that yourself, sir.""No, I can't. You see, operator, I have no arms.""I'm sorry, sir.""They've got this phone strapped to my head for emergencies, so I'd appreciate it if you'd connect me.""I'll be happy to, sir."
in a sentence: A young woman and a young man prank call an old lonely man, and form an unlikely and somewhat unhealthy friendship.John and Lorraine are two students who hate school, have less than desirable family lives, and few friends outside of each other.
They know what a unique relationship was forged, and set to write this novel in order to share with the world their experience with Angelo Pignati.The narrator switches between Lorraine and John each chapter, which provides an interesting point of view.
In my mind The Pigman has always suffered from being one of the dreaded "school books".
You know the type; The almost patronizingly short, incredibly dull and soon forgotten piece of drivel that stands in the way of the books you actually WANT TO READ this summer.
You see in my high school this book was freshman summer reading.
And that was the fact that the very first paragraph, on the very first page, of the very first book I ever read in high school taught me how to blow up a urinal and frame the local stoner for it.
(2.5)For the most part this was an enjoyable story, but the main characters irritated me to no end. I felt the story lacked plot and that there really wasn't any character development throughout the story. It didn't feel like the characters changed in anyway, even though they met somebody who supposedly impacted them and they go through something that should have an affect on them in some way. Also the ending was abrupt and too quick for my liking.
Obavezno pročitajte Svinjčićaako želite da se osetite vrlo nesrećno i da nastavite tako da se osećate danima :(
But then, Zindel was writing in the seventies, and the book jacket is covered in critical praise about how ground breaking and "now" the novel is.
Then again, I read the book for the first time in the late eighties/early nineties and I remember thinking that it was super deep, so maybe it's less about the time period and more about the maturity level of the reader.
In which case, Zindel is owed some praise for a book that resonates with new (young) readers even after the angst is no longer groundbreaking.
I first read The Pigman in high school; remembering that I genuinely enjoyed the novel. As such, I had a nostalgic longing to give The Pigman a second read to see if I still loved it. I did. I felt that despite being written in the 60's, the story includes complex issues that are still relevant in modern times, like family, aging, death, etc.Overall, almost a decade after graduating high school, I still appreciated the plot and the characters that Zindel created. I'm not ashamed to admit that I shed a tear when I reached the end.
This is the story of two latchkey kids befriending an elderly neighbor. No one gets touched in a bad way, but their friendship gives them that warm tingling sensation. I hated every damn word of it.
I'd like it more if I were a fan of Catcher in the Rye. These kids are messed up for not good enough reasons except just the zeitgeist of the era.
A reviewer that I respect says that the kids are to blame for Pignati's death.
The party served to further force maturity on the kids.I guess that's why it's such a famous book.
I identify with Pignati because I'm his age and have no good reason to try to live a lot longer.
And trying to understand the book's popularity by careful reading will enable a reader to see others' points of view...
Her mother has tried to bring her up to distrust and even hate men, so Lorraine keeps her friendship with John a secret and always pretends to be at a friend's studying after school instead of where she really is - with John hanging out at the cemetery drinking beer (and in his case smoking) or otherwise spending time with him.John, meanwhile, despises his father who he nicknames 'Bore'.
Inevitably, as they make more and more free of his house and possessions, the situation unravels into disillusionment and tragedy.Therefore, despite the dated nature of the setting, the story itself is not: two bored, alienated teenagers scam a lonely old person, although they don't do it to be mean but just to have fun.
But for an old man he is really into having fun some of the things he liked to do were going to the zoo to see Bobo, drinking wine, rollerblading and having Peoples Company like when John and Lorraine come around.
Lorraine’s mother hates boys and thinks they just want to have sex and rape you and she is always dealing with death because she works for old people helping them with everyday things but she also steals a lot of there stuff just takes home a little everyday.What I think of the story The Pigman is it’s a great Book to read for anyone.
My 8th grade English teacher read this to us, and she was much, much cooler than I realized at the time.
Emotionally starved and surrounded by adults who have replaced joy and fun with being responsible and respectable, and are eagerly waiting for their offspring to do the same.
And even though the adventure is not without its share of heartache, I think J & L would do it all over again, because they learned to love.
Their lives are their own.
And Mr. P gave them the courage to live them.
I read this book in the 7th grade and LOVED it.
I came across it in the library a few days ago and decided to bring it home and re-read it to see what it was about and how much I liked it now.
It's a pretty cool story about two young friends who meet and befriend an old widowed man, who they dub "The Pigman".
They quickly admire the Pigman and enjoy spending time with him.
He falls ill, they take advantage of having a key to his house while he's in the hospital and soon they learn important lessons about friendship, the fragility of life and "trespassing" where they shouldn't be.
Yes he's quirky as hell, but I really genuinely liked him...and then the horrible teen characters invite a bunch of other teens over who destroy his collection of porcelain pigs hat he adores...and he barely talks until he dies at the end.
A sixth grade class was assigned to read a book about to lying, selfish teenagers who like a man but end up having his collection of porcelain pigs he collected over time; which ends up almost killing him from depression (in fact in a way it did kill him).
This is a really old book, but the themes are still relevant for today.
Teens would reject the lack of cell phones, rotary phone dialing of strangers to pull telephone pranks, and the one narrator's choice of using @##$$?
The teenagers are just a reckless as teens today; they drink, cause trouble, and see this as normal.
The ending is very sad, but Zindel makes an important point: "Our life would be what we made of it - nothing more, nothing less." Food for thought for everyone, not just teens.
This is a coming of age story told from a young adult perspective with the narrative split between John Conlan, a young good-looking rebel who one day hopes to be an actor, and Lorraine, a not very-attractive girl who lives with her single mom.
Both kids are up to no good when they make the acquaintence of the Pigman, an older Italian man who's lonely enough to let these two teens invade his life and somewhat take advantage of him.
The story is a quick read and is expertly told with all three main characters becoming more and more real and more and more understandable the more you read.
I'm amazed that this book has won so many awards, and I feel sorry for all the teenagers who are forced to read this in school.
I thought the relationship between the kids and the pigman was strange, unhealthy, and unrealistic.
I thought John and Lorraine's dysfunctional relationships with their parents was too contrived and over-the-top.
And I don't feel like their was enough character development or growth.
To have teenagers and a senior citizen glimpse into each others lives, and experience a little bit of what it's like to be them, well, that could make for a really great book....but not this book.
Mr. Pignati is old and alone. John and Lorraine prank call Mr. Pignati which leads, very gradually, to a friendship between the two teens and the old man. It's a moving story of a friendship between people of widely different ages as well as the consequences of being irresponsible and careless.My husband and I listened to this audiobook. It's a 1001 Children's Book You Must Read.My husband's rating: 🌟🌟🌟My rating: 🌟🌟🌟🌟
Mr. Pignati suffers a heart attack while he, Lorraine, and John were roller-skating around the house.
Mr. Pignati asks John and Lorraine to care for the house and visit Bobo while he's in the hospital.
Notified that Pignati is about to leave the hospital, John wants to give a party before turning the house back over to him.
The party goes out of control, ending in violence and destruction, and Pignati comes home to find his house ruined and his wife's pig collection smashed.
Mr. Pignati suffers another heart attack and dies on the spot.
A cute but sad little story about two teenagers who prank call an old widower and end up being friends with him.I hated John and Lorraine though, but especially John.
Now that I think about it, there really was nothing happy about this story, no redemption or "all's well that ends well" bullshit.
Both John and Lorraine had family troubles of their own, while Mr. Pignati's life was just sad and lonely.
It would've been better if this book was longer so there was room for resolution, but sadly the ending was abrupt and devastating.It was interesting to read a contemporary YA novel from the 60's though.
I just read this book for the first time a couple of weeks ago. Now I know why they keep assigning it as school reading. The plot, the characters, and the writing are soooo good. Told from the first person POV, it really feels like a teenager wrote it. And though it was written in the 60s, it feels completely contemporary. (Except for one thing. Today, all those kids would be on cellphones, and they'd be documenting the Pigman and all his eccentricities on Snapchat.)
I remember in middle school reading a book by this author, My Darling, My Hamburger, and that I liked that book a lot, so when I found this book as I was packing up my room to move to another classroom, I was flooded with memories and felt drawn to the book.
I was a bit disappointed.
I liked it ok...the main character, John, reminded me of Holden Caulfield, but John has a girl friend, Lorraine.
I get the lesson to be learned, but I was disappointed in the journey there.

I read this one in middle school and it was just as good this time around.
They often make poor decisions and have to learn about life the hard way.
This book is frustrating for readers because we know they should or should not do some things, but it is also entertaining and relatable.
This book was written in the 1960's, so talking with younger readers about the poor choices made within the novel require us to use a historical perspective and compare/contrast how it's different than what teenagers face today.
These decisions are still relatable for students, so I think it's a good read and engages many students in conversation.
Mr Pignati or also known as the pigman is an old lonely man who collects pigs and has a terrible secret, He also has a baboon called BoBo as a best friend.John one of the main characters is a high school sophomore in America.
Guilt was mostly felt by Lorraine and John, the main characters who are high school sophomores in America.
The way the zoo keeper told Mr Pignati about BoBo and his death probably caused his death so he might have been feeling abit guilty as well.I like the book because of the way it is written.
Reference information: Title: “The Pigman”Author: Paul ZindelPublisher: HarperCollins PublishersYear:1968# of pages:166 Genre: FictionReading level Interest level: 8th-9th gradersPotential hot lava: underage drinking General response/reaction:I found this book to be really different than what I had imagined it to be. I found myself really interested in the story one minute, and then next I would be bored with how the story was developing. This pattern continued until the fifth chapter and then i
Each chapter switches characters, if John is speaking in the first, Lorraine will continue in the second chapter and this pattern continues throughout the books entirety.
Plot summary:This story is about two high school sophomores that come to terms with how their actions affect not only them, but the others that surround them after the death of the “The Pigman”.Strengths (including reviews and awards):Margaret Owens Award“An intensely moving story of believably alienated young people.”—School Library JournalDrawbacks or other cautions:There are scenes that contain underage drinking as well as bleeped out curse words.Teaching ideas:I could see someone using this book for a character counts unit.
