https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43345.A_Cry_In_The_Night
I read this book years ago and remember it being a thrilling, suspenseful story.
But this one still managed to give a good ride despite some very minor flaws.In this wonderfully creepy book the main character, Jenny, is a struggling mother of two young girls.
This is a good suspense book despite its old-fashioned heroine.
But on the other hand, reading about what happens to this old-fashioned innocent woman as a result of her rushing into a relationship with someone she barely knows is very suspenseful – scary, inevitable, shocking.
The book managed to hook, then disturb me for a second time.
If this would've been my first book by Mary Higgins Clark, it would had been the last.
Si hubiese sido mi primer libro de Mary Higgins Clark, hubiese sido el último.
No es mi primer libro, pero definitivamente es el último que compro.La trama se hace densa, no atrapa, los personajes no resultan creíbles ni queribles.
pero, con la esperanza de un final mejor o una vuelta de tuerca, terminé de leer el libro; y debo decir que 1 estrella es demasiado.
I grabbed this book off a community shelf at work to have something to read at lunch.
I cannot understand how you can write a character that is supposedly an independent and "strong" woman who would let a man be so posessive, manipulative and then decide to marry him.
I haven't read any of her other books and doubt I will read any more.
I didn't like the character and her ability to write off utterly unacceptable behavior and ultimately accept the blame for most issues.
It was bizare and creepy and just not an enjoyable book.
I was like screaming when Jenny said YES to Erich .How stupid can this girl get .Marrying someone without knowing anything about him or his history .Before i could process what was happening, they get married and Erich whisks her off from the city to his mansion .Everything seemed perfect at the beginning ,but then slowly the mansion turns into a Prison and she a prisoner .He seemed exactly like a character from Gillian Flynn's books.
Psychological thriller has become my favorite genre ever since i started reading Gillian Flynn's books .And this was pretty much on the same line.
To paraphrase I review I'd recently read concerning this book:I absolutely love Mary Higgins Clark and I believe that I have read all of her books (well at least 30), but A Cry in the Night is one of the shining star of her collection.
She takes a very naive woman who is trying hard, as a single mother and working full-time to support her family, and puts her in this comfortable and convenient position that she just can't say NO to.I've found Mary Higgins Clark to create interesting and beautifully created suspense novels.
When I travel, I bring along pulpy or fluffy mysteries to leave at the airport when I'm done.
This one ended up with me, and it was absolutely ridiculous.
People like this author?
He disappears for days on end without leaving access to a phone or vehicle?
At least it was pulpy--I read it through to the end because I was a bit curious about the plot, but it's nothing I'd recommend.
I thought it might have a bit of Mrs. Rochester from Jane Ayer, but even putting the two books in the same thought is giving too much praise.
La verdad es que no me puedo creer que ayer me leyera 100 páginas, pero este libro me tenía totalmente enganchada.Aunque haya mencionado que me ha mantenido enganchada, no quiero dar a entender con esto que me ha encantado el libro, ya que no ha sido así.La historia me pareció muy chocante desde el principio, ya que no me esperaba ese comienzo de historia.
Dejando de lado eso, seguí leyendo y empezaron a haber algunos detalles que no me cuadraban con lo que yo pensaba que pasaría al final y pensé que el final sería totalmente contrario a lo que esperaba y eso la verdad es que me gusta.Entonces ayer me enganché de una manera increíble y leí todas las páginas que quedaban.
Wow what a horrible book filled with a creepy romance, an unlikable main character and unrealistic plot lines.
She falls in love with millionaire artist Erich Krueger and after a month of knowing the guy she marries him and uproots her and her 2 daughters from NYC to Erich's mansion in the country.
I would want to know about the person that I am marrying and also see the house that I would be living in.
Once at the isolated mansion, Jenny begins to realise that life as a Kruger isn't as great as she thought it was.
3,5 sterren
This was an umpteenth re-read for me of this book. I first fell in love with MHC because of this book and I try to reread it every year or so. I know what happens to Jenny McPartland now, but every time I read it, I'm right there with that character again.LOVE this book!
I'm a fan of Mary Higgins Clark books.
I love her story lines and the fact that she doesn't use vulgar language and crude sexual references.
But this book frustrated me.
A lot.
The protagonist was a pushover.
She tolerated way too much of her husband's psycho behavior.
I would get frustrated to the point where I would close the book, throw it down and have to get up and do something else.
But I always came back to it because I was so curious to see how it ended.
Anyway, don't judge all of Mary Higgins Clark's books by this one.
Many people highly oppose the fact that the main character is not the strongest, most dependent character who has ever been created. If you don't mind having an unorthodox protagonist, then this book is fantastic and eerie- not every book has to have a strong leading character. Therefore, I think this book stands our among Mary Higgin Clark's books because it follows a different style of characters. It does not lead as much of a surprise as many of her novels but the moments within are very well-written. Perhaps not her finest, but definitely one worth a read.
I hate to give a MHC book 2 stars but I just couldn’t deal with this one! From the get-go I was annoyed with the main character and just had a feeling of unease throughout the whole book. The main character’s responses to the events in this book just didn’t make sense. It was a necessary read on my journey through MHC’s works, but if I hadn’t been working through all of them I would’ve quit this one pretty early on.
I read this book years ago and remember it being a thrilling, suspenseful story.
I didn’t expect it to be quite as good the second time.
This is a good suspense book despite its old-fashioned heroine.
It’s hard to imagine a modern woman accepting such dependence and isolation and being completely romantically focused on her man despite annoyances such as his continual talking about Caroline.
But on the other hand, reading about what happens to this old-fashioned innocent woman as a result of her rushing into a relationship with someone she barely knows is very suspenseful – scary, inevitable, shocking.
The book managed to hook, then disturb me for a second time.
The main character does nothing throughout the whole book to make her situation better.
I felt no sympathy for the main character and by the end I did not care what happened.
Not good when reading a book.I also felt the premise of the book was laughable as nobody realized what was happening.
The feelings I felt about the main character could be applied to all of the characters.Like I said maybe this author isn't my cup of tea and that is why my review is so negative.
But I do think there are way better books than this one in this genre.
La descrizione dello scenario in cui si muove la vicenda provoca nel lettore un senso di inquietudine e di tensione continua.Jenny è una giovane donna con un matrimonio alle spalle, due bambine e una vita difficile da condurre.
Lì, in quella grandissima casa improvvisamente Jenny comincia a sentirsi profondamente sola e tutto ciò che era sogno diventa incubo.Forse non sarà di grande spessore, ma devo dire che sa tenere bene la tensione, se cercate un thriller, ma senza spargimenti di sangue, senza serial killer crudeli ed atroci e non cercate un giallo con l'ispettore che risolve gli enigmi per voi, allora probabilmente questo romanzo è per voi.Consigliato.
I'm a picky person when it comes to what I read, but after I finished this book I wanted more of them to read.
I really enjoyed this book to the fullest, and found it hard to put down at all.It's about Jenny MacPartland, a single mother of 2 little girls, meets Erich Krueger, the man of her dreams.
So suddenly, Jenny and the girls, along with Erich, moved to Minnesota to live in Eric's beautiful mansion.
Jenny holds an uncanny resemblance to Caroline, and Erich grows more and more possessive of her.
PrevedibileLettura di evasione tecnicamente ineccepibile: prosa fluida ed efficacemente descrittiva, ritmo sostenuto con punte di incalzante tensione, abile dosaggio nell’introduzione degli elementi rivelatori del “mistero”.
Peccato però che il soggetto sia tanto sfruttato e prevedibile.
L’incontro, all’interno di un thriller, con un partner dotato di tutti i requisiti positivi immaginabili già di per sé risulta sospetto; il fatto poi che questo tema sia stato trattato in ogni variante più o meno credibile e più o meno riuscita in tanti romanzi e pellicole ne limita senza dubbio l’apprezzamento.
A meno di non imbattersi in una nuova Daphne du Maurier, e non è certo il caso di questa pur apprezzabile scrittrice.
Not her best but kept me reading.I am a big fan of Mary Higgins Clark. This is the first book of hers I have read in a while and while I liked it, it was more predictable than some of her others. I think it should be a big red flag to any woman if she looks exactly like a man's mother, who died tragically.
A entertaining trhiller over a psychopatic love and a psychopata
3,5 *
Hacía mucho que no leía a esta autora y las primeras páginas se me hicieron un poco pesadas porque no terminaba de engancharme tanta escena costumbrista, pero luego..
¡ay, luego!Ya en la página 40 me había enganchado del todo y pensaba más es el condenado libro que en el que yo estaba escribiendo, jaja, preguntándome cómo seguiría.
Cuando ya empiezas a vislumbrar por dónde irán los tiros, el tema se enrarece y pierde fuelle.
Forse avrei dovuto proseguire nella lettura, non è escluso che in futuro, in nome della fiducia che riponevo (e ripongo) nell'autrice lo farò, ma per il momento, conisiderando che le mie letture in attesa sono davvero tantissime, ho preferito dedicarmi ad altro.
Ma che il mio commento negativo non vi inganni: Mary Higgins Clark è a mio avviso una scrittrice di ottimi romanzi mistery!
Solo che a chi non ha letto nulla di lei, consiglieri altri titoli, quali l'agghiacciante La culla vuota o il meno noto ma intrigante La notte mi appartiene.
I was unable to connect to the characters on any level (though given Erich's neuroses, maybe that's a good thing) -- very suspenseful, and I found myself wondering what would happen, but the characters were too unrealistic and the plot too unbelievable for me.If you're looking for something by MHC, try out Daddy's Little Girl instead. It left a lasting impression on me when I read it in my youth.
The author is very good in managing the point of view of the protagonist and overall the text compels you to a quick read, though I must confess that I was in a hurry to finish it just to get rid of it as soon as possible.But despite the excellent technical skills, the story is just a naive cliché.The useless prologue makes it clear immediately how the story will be developed and how it will end: it anticipates the child’s death (which then actually occurs at about 80% of the novel), shows that she is alone and that there is something strange regarding her husband.Everything else is clarified in the first chapters.Jenny, the main character, is absolutely non-credible.
This is one of my two favorite books!
I loved this book!! Great story!! Love this author's books!!
A easy read but her husband is a creeper😬
E foi assim que acabei por descobrir mais uma grande autora!!Geralmente não costumo ler este género de livros- posso estar enganada, mas classificá-lo-ia como Thriller- mas confesso que gostei imenso da história, por isso é um género a que dedicarei mais atenção.
Os primeiros tempos de casados são de pura felicidade, mas aos poucos as coisas começam a dar para o torto...Não vos vou contar mais sobre a história,se quiserem saber leiam-muahahahah!- vou só dizer que Erich é doido e ao longo do livro sabemos que é ele que está por detrás de tudo o que de mal acontece, embora não tenhamos provas, nem saibamos como é que ele o fez.
“A Cry in the Night” will be the 3rd book I’ve read by Mary Higgins Clark and I am happy to say it was the most interesting one yet, much more than the other two.
She then meets the man of her dreams, but Jenny starts to get suspicions about her love Erich Krueger soon after their marriage.
They suspected she committed the crime, when I read this section I was very upset with this part of the story because they were basically just assuming and going by a stereotypical hypothesis and not looking at the evidence.
Mary Higgins Clark is still my favorite author of all time.
