https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/544900.The_Italian_Girl
Edmund reruns home after the death of his manipulative and controlling mother.
A kind of Freudian knot that will take a death to untangle.It has been many, many years since I have read Murdoch, this is one of her earliest books and is more dramatic than I remember her books as being.
Was puzzled by the title because the Italian girl, which Edmund notes there had been a succession of taking care of him and his brother Otto as they were growing up, stays mostly in the background until virtually the end.
"Beauty is such self-forgetting" (47) indeed--and this is a brilliant and breathtaking family portrait, so very post-Victorian Jerry Springer filthiness!
First off, the strongly redolent, very judgmental narrator (and weakling) Edmund becomes immediately attractive to any reader who often ventures out of a definite comfort zone to stray off into the world's dark undercarriage.
And the plot: He finds himself in a mad dream inhabited by imps: by more doubles and doppelgangers any possible reader could possibly want.
(Respect the gods of the almighty novella!) It arrives from the same stratosphere of the macabre as American Hawthorne's "The Blithedale Romance."There is a commendable and dire need to be anti-Victorian with the superb Murdoch.
Notes to self1. Read a book a couple of weeks ago. Turned out it was about Alzheimer’s.2. Cannot remember the title or story of note #1.3. Read another book last week. Turned out it had a character who suffered dementia.4. Cannot remember that title or story either, of note #35. Current author developed Alzheimer’s.ReviewA short and absorbing tale that takes place in Northern England. Murdoch was an established and honored and prolific author. She wrote beautifully. And is now dead.This story is
Read a book a couple of weeks ago.
Turned out it was about Alzheimer’s.2.
Read another book last week.
Turned out it had a character who suffered dementia.4.
Cannot remember that title or story either, of note #35.
Cannot remember that title or story either, of note #35.
Current author developed Alzheimer’s.ReviewA short and absorbing tale that takes place in Northern England.
Philosophy, irony, miscommunications between its characters, love, reflection, redemption, loss, interesting dialogue, empathy or lack of, compromise, some angst and tension, trials between family members, the intrusion of outsiders, the casual assaults by youth, and more.Recommended for we who acknowledge our fractured lives.Any further questions will not be answered by this reader, who will have forgotten the story, momentarily.
Otto, the older brother, still lives in the family home with his wife Isabel and daughter Flora, now a teenager.In Murdoch's usual way, the details of the family come into focus like a developing photograph until you have a distressing picture of psychological disturbance and broken relationships.
He has always had criminal-type assistants who cause trouble and are then replaced.Otto's wife, it turns out, is having an affair with the current assistant, David, who has also been sleeping with the daughter and gotten her pregnant.
Otto is sleeping with David's mysterious and troubled sister.
Murdoch seems to be telling us that in any family there are secrets.
At 171 pages, this practically a novella, but it packs a lot of emotion into those pages, and although it's an early work, it is very clearly an Iris Murdoch, albeit less subtle than later works.Edmund returns to his childhood home after the death of his manipulative and estranged mother.
His brother Otto, an alcoholic, lives there with his wife, daughter and the eponymous Italian girl (an au pair who stayed on), none of whom he has seen for years.
Lydia, the dead mother, continues to be a major force on the lives of all therein.The plot twists, turns, tangles and the Italian girl is in the background till the end.
He’s locked out, but fortunately there’s another night prowler about who can let him in: David Levkin, the apprentice to Edmund’s drunken stonemason brother, Otto.Edmund finds his mother Lydia’s body laid out on her bed and recalls the almost Oedipal relationships she had with him and his brother.
As in A Severed Head, the language of possession marks these shifting bonds as unhealthy and obsessive.Murdoch often sets up stark dichotomies between characters and situations, and here Otto and Edmund serve as the two poles: “Otto’s Gothic, you know,” his wife Isabel says to Edmund.
(While their famous father was an artist, Edmund is an engraver and Otto is a stone mason.) Published in 1964, The Italian Girl seems dated even for that time period; the effete Edmund reminds me more of an over-refined English mama’s boy in a 1920s P.G. Wodehouse novel, while his monstrous brother could play the murder victim who’s begging to be killed in a Dorothy L.
The Italian Girl reminded me of the 1960s cult classic Dark Shadows — all dark, oppressive atmosphere and melodrama — but the Narraway family has none of the fun in its dysfunction.
What this book needs is more orcs.
Or any orcs at all, really, but preferably a great horde of slavering, rampaging, hell-bent-on-destruction orcs.
Failing that, zombies would do the trick.
Or perhaps we could push swords into the characters’ hands and toss them into the gladiator arena.
Frankly, they need something of the sort.
Because I’ve never come across such a snivelling bunch of whiny, self-absorbed morons who so badly need to just get over themselves.
I probably lack the right receptors in my brain to get the point of a book like this.
I’m missing the point, I accept that.
My first Iris Murdoch book and boy can she write beautifully. I was transported into the book and lost myself in it. For some reason, I have always been put off her writing because I thought it would be too cerebral and I would become bored but if this is anything to go by, I will be reading more of her stuff.At 160 pages this can easily be read in one day.
Flora meanwhile is one of Murdoch’s disturbed and neglected teenagers who flits in and out of the novel and has to fend for herself while her mother Isabel surrounds herself with possessions and fire as a form of self-sacrifice or protection from Lydia and Otto.
Although this novel isn’t as entrenched in the gothic or fairy tale atmosphere of The Unicorn, there is the impression that Otto, Flora and Isabel were enchanted by David and his sister the ‘changelings’, who have taken the place of Lydia who had the entire household in her grip.
Edmund's return to his mother's funeral makes him remind the old and new family's problems. And the Italian girl's story, a family's loyal servant, is entwined with all these issues.4* Living on Paper: Letters from Iris Murdoch, 1934-19955* Iris: A Memoir of Iris Murdoch5* Iris Murdoch: Dream Girl4* A Severed Head4* The Sea, the Sea4* The Black Prince4* The Bell3* Under the Net3* The Italian GirlTR The Sacred and Profane Love MachineTR A Fairly Honourable DefeatTR The Nice and the GoodTR The Philosopher's PupilTR The SandcastleTR The Good ApprenticeTR The Red and the Green

Even though I'm only giving it three stars, I still loved it. Raced through it in a couple of days. Trashier, a bit, then the average Murdoch read.
"The extreme beauty of the scene put me into an instant trance. It was always a trick of my nature to be subject to these sudden enchantments of the visible world, when a particular scene would become so radiant with form and reality as to snatch me out of myself and make me oblivious to all my purposes. Beauty is such self-forgetting".Enchantment too for me in prose such as this. How good to discover Iris Murdoch again.
This is an early Murdoch, and less complex than some I have read, but it still has those curiously labyrinthine patterns of human relationships.
In this case, a first-person narrator, Edmund, arrives back to be part of a family he has left behind.
Edmund, a precise and (he thinks) rather sexless man, has a gross brother Otto, an intense and frustrated sister-in-law, Isabel, and a pre-Raphaelite-looking niece, Flora.
The other secrets are complicated enough: Otto is sleeping with Elsa, while her brother David has made Flora pregnant, and is also sleeping with Isabel.
For example:Characters who are so casually rich that they just happen to have a huge garden, a river, and even a waterfall in their back garden.Loads of melodrama.Really grimy and unappealing men living in domestic squalor - see for example Otto at the end, who is found casually eating a raw onion with his extraordinarily hairy hands.
I did.A pair of the Russian Jews who turn up a lot in her novels - but their depiction here is a kind of crude caricature, in comparison to eg The Time of the Angels.Everybody is artistic.
So it was a bit disappointing.And then, making me even more disappointed, right at the end - MY PET PEEVE - UNTRANSLATED CHUNKS OF TEXT.
My first Iris Murdoch novel, and it will be my last unless someone can recommend a really good one! This was a special $1.99 book on BookBub that I wish I had resisted! Every character is horrid, hurtful and self centered and the plot was just a series of pathetic encounters with each other. I found no literary value whatsoever, but I am open to comments about how wrong I am! Oh, yes, one good thing - it was only 171 pages!
This was my first Murdoch, and I think it was a bad choice. I just never could care about the characters, and now, a few days later, I can barely remember what happened to whom and why.
someday i'll know what to say about iris murdoch. in the meantime, 30 books to go...
So gothic and dreary and I couldn't put it down. I guess that makes it a classic.
extraordinary amount of violence.....the many readers who expect incredible situations, terror and characters in an Iris Murdoch will happily find them all in "The Italian Girl".I like gothic novels, sometimes I even love gothic novels, so I was really looking forward to reading this novel.
Edmund first meets Elsa when he wakes in the middle of the night and looking out his window sees an unknown woman standing in the lawn.
One thing that puzzles me, why is the book named "The Italian Girl"?
Unbelievably bad, until she changed gears near the end. I thought it must be satire? Still uncertain.
This book was not what I expected, I'd heard Murdoch was a master of prose and this is true, there were moments where it was similar to Nabokov's Lolita for me, hauntingly beautiful and yet utterly disturbed.
This is a short novel and whilst haunting, I would have loved a few of these characters to have been a little more fleshed out, as come the ending, whilst I understood the motivation and the sense of the plot, it wasn't quite en pointe for me.
My rating may change as I can see myself thinking about this book for a long time and what those characters represent.
What is remarkable are the typical Murdoch (unwed pregnant girl, Christ figure, loner narrator, a person with questionable morals being called "master" etc.) themes set in a gothic horror setting.
Nonetheless I grew irritated with the story line and quickly finished the book with more disinterest than I would have thought possible for a Murdoch book between my hands.
I probably shouldn't have read this right after "Severed Head", maybe a little too much Iris, because it seemed a little simple, and a little boring.
For all I know it could be considered her Gatsby (I thought Gatsby was simple and boring too), but it never grabbed me.
A wood carving semi-hermit goes back home for his controlling mother's funeral and gets tangled up in his brother's adultery, unhappy marriage, unwanted teenage pregnancy, along with a missing and ultimately confusing final will and testament.
ذكرني جو الرواية بكريستي في رواية (في النهاية يأتي الموت) خصوصًا..الوافد البعيد الذي يعود لأسرته لحدث ما ،ليُخرج كل فرد في الأسرة أسوأ ما كان يخفي..وتذكري لكلام كريستي،أنه ليس وليد التفاعل الآني.،بل إن التصرفات السيئة هذه إنما هو عفن طويل العمر كان ينتظر علامة ليخرج للنور أو ليظهر.مردوخ أضافت في روايتها حدثًا يكون كزر إنهاء لهذه الحالة من الفوضى السلوكية لدى كل بطل من أبطال الرواية.الأم المسيطرة..الخادمة أو المربية التي تصبح أعلى من الجميع لطول المدة،ولكمية ماتعرف.أهم مايميز أيريس،الواقعية،بمعنى أنه لا توجد مبالغات خيالية،حتى المبالغات تمت تسويتها في آخر الرواية،لأخرج بعد قراءتها،كالخارج من خناقة انتهت والحمدلله على خير.
What a wonderful novel! Such complicated characters living in such a twisted reality yet, amidst all the chaos and damage, one funeral, one accidental death, a myriad of countless betrayals and misunderstands, and you still manage to come away with an incredible calm and peaceful contentment upon finishing. A happiness well worth living.This is a must read and a must 'live' story. Take up my challenge and give it a go...you might be surprised at the internal outcome budding within you when you finish.Devlin
This is a dark tale about a family falling apart after the controlling mother passes away.
Edmund is the main character who returns to his childhood home for the funeral.
He returns to find his brother and other members of this family living a complicated existence.
As secrets are revealed to Edmund , he tries to help whilst wishing he could leave and not wanting to become involved to find the problems just become more complicated which makes for some comic scenes and revelations.
This was a quick read and my first Murdoch which I found well written and compelling to the end.
A rather gruesome tale of a dysfunctional family reaching the point of melt-down triggered by the death of the overbearing Mother. The main character comes across as stupidly naïve at points, but the characters are generally finely drawn. It is a bleak, rather depressing story, albeit with some light at the end. Interesting use of the Italian girl as a source of stability even if this is artificially constructed by the other characters
This was my first Iris Murdoch book and for some reason I couldn't get enthusiastic about it. I can tell that it is technically well written but the story just didn't draw me in. Dysfunctional relationships and melancholy were in abundance and I found it hard to keep reading to the end. A part of me says that I should give this classic writer another chance and try a second of her novels... But another says, please wait a whille... We shall see ...
