https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238139.Imitation_in_Death
I started reading this series in 2012. I dip in now and again ... I read maybe two in a row sometimes but then change to something else. I love the books. I love the characters. I love the writing. Eve Dallas must be the most kick-ass heroine out there. She takes no shit!! She is married to the sexiest man on earth! Roarke - swoon - he is perfect, fucking perfect. There was Ireland in his voice, dreamy wisps of it that could, unexpectedly, wind around her heart.  "Eve is on the trail of a serial
I started reading this series in 2012.
I read maybe two in a row sometimes but then change to something else.
I love the books.
I love the characters.
I love the writing.
Eve Dallas must be the most kick-ass heroine out there.
I love Peabody and her role in this story.
"How'd you get through airport security with that steel pike up your ass."
"Now I look, and I think: there's my woman, soft and lovely.""Where do you get this stuff?""It just comes to me.
I've only to look at you, and the world comes to me.
Overall, another fabulous read.I.WANT.THEIR.BABIES!!
Another brilliant episode in this series from J.D. RobbThis one is outstanding for the development in the relationship between Peabody and Eve. They are a laugh a minute as they bounce repartee off each other like a comedy duo.
Of course Roarke and Eve have their usual beautiful relationship and lots of other characters take a turn too.
Even Summerset has his moment right at the end when he returns from his vacation.I enjoyed all the police work in this one and I was also happy that I picked the murderer very early in the piece, as did Eve. I love these books - for me J.D. Robb can do no wrong.
I LOVE this series sooooo much! :) “When I came in and you were sleeping, I thought: There’s my soldier, exhausted from her wars.” He lifted her hand, kissed her fingers. “Now, I look, and I think: There’s my woman, soft and lovely.” Her lips curved as he undressed her. “Where do you get this stuff?” “It just comes to me. I’ve only to look at you, and the world comes to me. You’re my life.”
The crimes are always heinous, Eve is driven and sarcastic, Peabody is just Peabody and Roarke is hot, sexy and Irish (has to be the best police spouse in the thriller business - he's so understanding and caring whereas most of the other spouses of police just whinge about them never being home....)In this episode Eve is on the hunt for a serial killer who is carrying out copy cat murders of infamous killers.
She has several suspects - too many in fact - so has to use her clever and devious cop brain (and Roarke's) to narrow down the clues.
Suspense 4.5 stars / Romance 4.5 starsExtremely interesting and twisted suspense. A murder, who imitated historic serial killers. My girl Eve and me knew his identity from the very beginning, the others needed more time plus the evidence *lol*Eve, you are a Goddess!!!Romance: Roarke wins my heart, slowly, but anyway <3Peabody is a detective, yeah! Und Eve in uniform -> hot. Love love love this series!!!Every book is a winner. Thanks God I have more to come ;-)
Reminder to self. Never start an Eve book at lunch time while I'm eating.
”How do you eat feet?” Eve wondered. “Do you start at the toes and work up, or at the akle and work down? Do ducks have ankles?”“I’ve spent many spleepless nights pondering just that.” (Peabody)  I wouldn’t wear them, but if you want to be swept from your feet…*shrug*  ”Is the U.N. in session?” (Eve)“U.N.? As in United Nations?” (Peabody)“No, U.N. as in Unidentified Numbskulls.” (Eve)  ”You have conversations with strangers all the time,” he (Roarke) pointed out. “You just call them suspects.”
”How do you eat feet?” Eve wondered.
“Do you start at the toes and work up, or at the akle and work down?
Do ducks have ankles?”“I’ve spent many spleepless nights pondering just that.” (Peabody)
”Is the U.N. in session?” (Eve)“U.N.?
As in United Nations?” (Peabody)“No, U.N. as in Unidentified Numbskulls.” (Eve)
”You have conversations with strangers all the time,” he (Roarke) pointed out.
Man should take lessons from Roarke!!!
The flag still waved, a colorful symbol, Eve supposed, of man’s willingness to get together and talk about problems of humanity.
Another wonderful book!
Personally, I love stories with a lot of killing and death, but never have any interest in reading about real-life killers.
Is that asking too much?Okay, sometimes it CAN be too much..In this case, the serial killers who are referred to and were real, not fictional, are so well-known that it wasn't that big of a deal to read about them.
It's in their DNA.He must be a boy doggie.I have to admit that the BBQ bit really cracked me up.
Some fancy rich-boy thinking he simply fire up a grill and cook a good-tasting steak is outrageous!
★★★ 3.75 Stars ★★★The story progressed quite slowly until the last 20%. Loved the characters and lead couple as usual.But I wish I had seen a bit more personal character development and a few sweet moments between Roarke & Eve .(Even though we do get a scene or two in this one :) Looking forward to Book 18 ! #Longwaytogo
5 stars - Romantic Suspense/Futuristic/Romantic ThrillerI love this series and just can’t get enough of these characters, especially Roarke.There was Ireland in his voice, dreamy wisps of it that could, unexpectedly, wind around her heart.“When I came in and you were sleeping, I thought: There’s my soldier, exhausted from her wars.” He lifted her hand, kissed her fingers.
“Now, I look, and I think: There’s my woman, soft and lovely.” Her lips curved as he undressed her.
And we know, don’t we, Dallas, that the human has an amazing capacity for cruelty to its own species?
I’m not sure how I came upon this series.
I’m sure it was by a friend’s recommendation.
However it came to be I am grateful because I have loved every single one of the books I have read.The two main characters have stolen my heart.
I love her humor.
I love his weakness when it comes to Eve. I love his loyalty.
And most of all I love how he loves Eve.And I’m pretty sure I say this in all my reviews but I can’t say enough about the secondary characters.
They really love each other.
Her relationship with Eve warms my heart.
J.D. Robb does it again Seventeen books in and this series is still going strong!!
Roarke and Eve are so comfortable in their relationship, it makes me smile.
I love the way they tease each other, Eve comes off as so aloof and annoyed, all the while loving it when Roarke irks her into submission.
On this particular case Eve brings Roarke on board as a consultant and whenever that happens it just adds a little extra to the read.
The more Roarke...the better.
She nails the voice for each character, and injects the right emotion and inflection, making an already thrilling read...EVEN BETTER!!
A killer imitating serial killings and a sneaky one at that. I enjoyed it. I've missed Eve and Roarke
Gawd, this was good. I was guessing right up until the end.The last chapter was simply amazing. Peabody is still my #1 girl.
Finished rereading Imitation & remembered how much I enjoy the relationships in this one.
Eve & Roarke, Eve & Peabody, Eve & Mira, Eve & Nadine...our Eve has a family and she is finally realizing & acknowledging it.
She finally remembers her mother through yet another nightmare & that is just sad.
On the other hand, there's Peabody & she just makes me laugh!
She-Body can justify eating anything!
I should also mention a murderer is imitating the crimes of some of the most famous serial killers.
Another great read by Robb!*Note: Reread July 2017 - A winner every time!
Imitation in Death4.5 StarsHomicide Lieutenant Eve Dallas is in pursuit of a vicious killer with a penchant for copying the crimes of the most notorious serial murderers in history.
In terms of the case, my preference is for those with several suspects and clues that the reader can follow in an attempt to determine who-dun-it (rather than those in which the perpetrator is revealed up front or the mystery takes a back seat to the character development, i.e., Portrait in Death).
Imitation in Death is one such investigation and it is very well done.
The characters in Robb's book are always a delight.
I love this book - imitation of all the notorious serial killers like Albert DeSoto, Jack The Ripper, etc.! Peabody finally gets her detective shield and Eve has a "glimpse" of what her birth mother was like - sad really. Eve wears her "blues" in this one and surprises even Roarke!!!2 thumbs up and 5 stars!
As always, the bulk of my enjoyment of this series comes from 2 things: how much did Eve annoy me and how much Roarke did we get?
Sure, she may feel a twinge of guilt about it in the end, but that usually gets snuffed out fairly quickly by someone in her inner circle telling her its not her fault.
But, then again...having so many suspects that 'could have' done it was far-fetched with the only tie in being ownership of a certain banned stationary paper.I also didn't care for having another past sexual partner of Roarke's thrown in for shits and giggles.
in this installment Eve and Peabody are going after a serial killer who is copycatting other famous serial killers. Peabody also goes after her detective Shield not realizing that means Eve will no longer need an aid. fantastic read just wish we had more Eve and roarke time in the book.
Another great story with great characters. That being said, I had to laugh softly when one of the most polluting country on Earth was posed as the recycling champion. One can always dream...
Aww, the ending was just perfect!
This book is a case of solid police work and some delightful banter between Peabody and Eve concerning relationships. It totally made me giggle. The series continue to be utterly captivating, and it's the developing character arc that I find so irresistible. Recommended!
Ünlü seri katilleri taklit eden bir sapik bu bölümde uğraştırdı Eve Dallası....Bu bölümde de kendi annesini hatırladı...Bu serinin belli bir kalitesi var asla aşağıya inmiyor...
1st Read from 21-26 May 20132nd Read from 7- 26 August 2015
I am absolutely loving this series and this book was no exception.
I have been listening to the audio as well and think that not only is the narrator perfect for this book but this series is perfect to listen to on audio.
what I love most about this book is not only is the murder mystery is always clever and compelling keeping you guessing until the end but also you cannot help but fall in love with the main cast of character and the interactions between them.
I am picking up the next book in this series as we speak and have no hestation giving this book 5 stars
Os livros desta série são sempre os mais aguardados do ano... ADORO ADORO ADORO!Adoro as personagens, a dinâmica entre elas, as suas histórias e o caso policial que nos é apresentado. E quando acho que já não haverá nada se novo na série sou surpreendida... amei cada bocadinho.
Strong police procedural highlights 17th Eve Dallas !We continue to be astounded at the publishing pace of Nora Roberts.
Despite her "regular" books under her own name, these fun NYPD homicide Lt. Eve Dallas stories, written as "JD Robb", keep coming at the rate of one or two a year.
His role in this novel, as in many of the prior tales, is one of Eve's crime-solving sidekick, along with faithful aide Officer Delia Peabody.
Meanwhile, Peabody's moving in with McNab, another regular, provides a foil in "examining" the nature of adults living together.
Ay resmen özlemişim ya okumayı.Keşke Epsilon biraz daha özense seriye.her ay gibi ütopik bir beklentim yok ama en azından senede iki üç kitap çıkarsa fena olmaz yani.
4 1/2 to 5 stars
Her investigation digs up dirt on each one of them that creates problems in their personal lives.This series gets better with each book.
This one shifted a bit more to Eve and Peabody.
Peabody is studying for her detective exam and is a complete wreck.
Her repartee with Eve is some of the best to date.
The best part is that Eve at times participates lightheartedly.Roarke and Eve continue to grow as a couple.
I enjoy how uncomfortable Eve is whenever Peabody and McNab are mentioned together.
I am ready to read the next book as soon as I finish the story.I highly recommend this series!
