https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6882.Papillon
My mother knew Papillon and another one of the characters in the book (Francoise).
He was a customer of my uncle's restaurant Il Padrino, in Venezuela, back in the 60's,70's (after this story was told).
My brother was just an infant/toddler at this time and they would take turns throwing him in the air, swinging him, etc..
I told this guy Neil about this and he was shocked that my family knew this guy.
He had read the book and loved it so much.
This book was written in my uncle's other restaurant Il Pappagallo back in the day.
What a great story!!!
Papillon, Henri Charrière Henri Charrière (16 November 1906 – 29 July 1973) was a French writer, convicted as a murderer by the French courts.
ایشان که به اتهام قتل، توسط دادگاه فرانسه محکوم شده بودند، مهمترین حوادث پیرامون این ماجرا را در کتابی با عنوان: پاپیون، به رشته ی تحریر درمیآورند.
ایشان ادعا داشتند که بیشتر رخدادهای نگاشته شده در پاپیون تا حد زیادی درست و واقعیت هستند، اما منتقدان مدرن بر این باور هستند که بسیاری از مواد کتاب، در واقع خاطرات نقل‌ شده ی دیگر زندانیان همراه «شاریر» بوده است.
I read this book in the mid 70's, as a teenager.
The three events have subsequently blended into one and I certainly now have difficulty differentiating the book from the film.
But that's no big deal as I know the film followed the written narrative pretty closely.
When I look back to early 'adult' books I've read it's this one that stands out - read as I laid on my bed with a Rod Stewart cassette (Atlantic Crossing) playing in the background.When the film was released I know I doubted it could match the power of the book, but in my memory it came close.
Papillon is an autobiographical novel about a man who in 1931 was charged with killing someone (of course, the author claims he was innocent) and he was sentenced to a life of hard labor at a penal colony in French Guiana.
He tried many other escape attempts, but it wasn't until 1941 that he managed to escape again by sea, floating away on a sack of coconuts.
Papillon, a nickname referencing the French word for butterfly, is a wonderful storyteller and the book is filled with his adventures.
Well, this prisoner was simply having none of it!This was a big book in length, and it felt like it to, through a ravaging chain of events Papillon reads both as an adventure story of high thrills and tension and a savage graphic account of the misery and inhumanity of the French penal system.
The failure only made him more resilient; he simply refused to accept his fate, eventually ending up in Venezuela, doing a little jail time, before, with the sun on his back he's a free man.The book also explores the humane relations Papillon shared with his cell mates, and you feel for a lot of them to, he was heavy handed with the sods but easy to make friends with.
Sentenced to life imprisonment in the penal colony of French Guiana, he became obsessed with one goal: "escape." After planning and executing a series of treacherous yet failed attempts over many years, he was eventually sent to the notorious prison, Devil's Island, a place from which no one had ever escaped .
His flight to freedom remains one of the most incredible feats of human cunning, will, and endurance ever undertaken.Charrière's astonishing autobiography, "Papillon," was published in France to instant acclaim in 1968, more than twenty years after his final escape.
The ruins of the prison on Île Royale - French Guiana the island
"Papillon" este cel mai captivant roman de aventură citit vreodată.Autobiografie romanțată fiind, autorul ne spune că a fost condamnat la închisoare de către curtea cu juri.
El, autorul, ne mărturisește că, deși în tinerețe a fost un golan, a fost condamnat la închisoare pe nedrept, deoarece nu a săvârșit niciun delict (dar -repet- este AUTOBIOGRAFIE).
Dacă reușește să evadeze din spitalul unei închisori (prefăcându-se că era bolnav), este înhățat în timp ce își construiește luntrea de evadare, în cimitir.
Cred că elaborează vreo 15-20 de planuri de evadare, fiind transferat -din pricina eșuării lor- la diferite închisori mai aspre.
There were many moments where the story is less than totally plausible (if you created a drinking game where you took a shot each time a beautiful woman befriended him out of the blue, or people started doing favors for him for no reason, or an important official preposterously took him into their trust, you would be dead drunk inside of three chapters), and yet Charrière crafted a completely absorbing tropical world of hardened criminals, miserable wretches, forbidding prisons, thrilling escapes, and all-around awesome displays of survival.I think my favorite part, out of a lot of great parts, was Papillon's moment of agonizing choice about a third of the way in, between staying in his beautiful Venezuelan paradise with his two new-found native wives, and returning to seek "vengeance" on what he thinks is the unjust society that shipped him halfway across the world to rot in a jungle charnel house.
مگر من از وطنم چه میخواستمغیر از تکهای نان، گوشهای امن، جیبی با حرمت، بارانی از عشق و پنجرهای باز كه آزادی و عشق را به من دهد، چه میخواستم در این حد، كه به من نداد؟برای همین، نیمه شبی، دری را شکستم و رفتم.
برای همیشه رفتم - شیرکو بیکسفیلم پاپیون رو سالها پیش دیدم.
با وجود سن کم آنقدر مفتون داستان فیلم، بازی استیو مککوئین و  موسیقی متن  شدم که هرچند سال یکبار دوباره به تماشای فیلم نشستم، تا این اواخر، که فرصت مطالعه کتاب پیش اومد.
اول شک داشتم که کتاب رو بخونم یا نه و آیا حرف جدیدی بجز چیزهایی که
سیلون در چند قدمی آزادی در باتلاق غرق می‌شود و پاپیون آزادی‌اش را بدست می‌آورد و چنین سرانجامی چقدر شبیه پایان فیلم/کتاب پرواز بر فراز آشیانه‌ی فاخته بود و سرانجام مک مورفی و مرد سرخپوست : یکی پرید رو به خاوران ، یکی پرید رو به باختر، یکی به روی آشیون فاخته کشید پرنکته‌ی دیگری که در داستان چشم‌نواز بود، به تصویر کشیدن این موضوع است که "هیچ انسانی برای همیشه از دست نمی‌رود و انسان می‌تواند فارغ از گذشته‌اش، دست به ساختن دنیایی جدید زند".
در داستان دگا در هیچ فراری همراه پاپیون نشد و به همین دلیل قرار بود به زودی بخاطر حسن رفتار مشمول عفو شده و آزاد گردد.
It is the TRUE story of a prison break from a penal colony in French Guiana which was later made into a movie with Steve McQueen--another of my favorites.
Henri Charrier, called Papillon for the butterfly tattoo on his chest, was convicted in Paris in 1931 for a murder he did not convict and was shipped off to French Guiana.
It takes years and several failed attempts for Papillion to escape in this nail-biting story of amazing courage.
Charriere wrote his autobiography in 1968, twenty years after he escaped.
Charrière seemed rather full of himself and the moment he entered prison, he immediately got in contact with potential later break companions and planned out in his head who he would have to kill to get his revenge.
Too black and white for my taste.
You might very well enjoy this book as a work of fiction, but it was just not for me.
One word for it - WOW..Its just amazing and the way the author has described the life of a man in the prisons is amazing.
Its wonderful how he tells this man's story spanning so many years.
I saw this movie as a kid..I must be very young then maybe class 5 or younger..and ever since then I had a desire in me to read this book whenever I get a chance.
Papillon means butterfly and it symbolises the protagonists' desire to get free from the clutches of jail.
The vivid description is just too good to miss and the book too good to be put down.
16/6 - Knowing nothing about this book or Charrière, only knowing the word papillon and it's English translation through the fact that there's a dog breed that's called papillon because the dog's fluffy ears (vaguely) resemble a butterfly's wings, I picked this up off the 'new and recently returned' shelf because the blurb on the back described it as "A classic memoir of prison breaks and adventure".
I was unsurprised to see in my post-reading research that large portions the story were disputed and that several of Charriere's fellow inmates have claimed over the years that he incorporated the experiences of other would-be escapees and presented them as his own story.
I guess this book was a precursor of sorts to A Million Little Pieces in that both are perfectly good stories that would go down a lot smoother were they not presented as fact.I would like to re-read this book soon knowing what I know now, and just accept the story as a communal history of the penal colony prisoners, with Papi as the proxy for several inmates' experiences.
No escape till the last page, you sail along all 'Cavale' with them.Even though the author is silent all throughout the novel, on the plot of his conviction for murder in France except by saying that he was innocent, we really feel that he was really innocent.
This, the author succeeds to prove through various instances in the novel.
We also feel many occasions unbelievable where we see he is recognized instantly, and many show sympathy towards him which aids in his attempts for a ‘Cavale’So fascinating is the narration of his experience in the island of Indian Hindus, where he finds an interesting life with two ‘wives’- sisters, who compete with each other to get pregnant, which they succeed in the end.
Never give up the fight, and that even when there seems no way out the way of the warrior, win or lose, is the correct way.
Books are such a wonderful thing that it teaches you all and me being very curious, we have become best friends now.
This was one of the best autobiographies I have ever read.
The determination of papillon is beyond explanation.
The tattoo on his chest of a papillon really meant something, he was never meant to be caged.
An awesome journey, many things to learn from and will always remember him when I feel down as how he never gave up.
A great read!
بابليون الفراشة الباحثة عن النور عن الحرية بعد أن فقدها على إثر جريمة فقد على إثرها حياته بالحكم علي
The translation may be to blame, but I thought the writing was amateurish.
Henri Charriere was writing about his own encounter in escaping the French prisons, several times, but his telling felt like someone exaggerating the facts and bragging about their exploits.
What I got out of this; yes, the conditions in this prison system were horrible, inhuman, but that doesn't excuse the fact that Papillon was a criminal and a murderer.
Just because he managed multiple escapes, many by committing murder, does not make him a figure to be admired.

Bu kitabın insanı saran, gözleri bozana dek bırakmadan okuma hissi uyandıran atmosferinin yanı sıra; gerek olay akışının içine okuru hapsedişi, gerekse de yer yer karşımıza çıkan mizah anlayışıyla da romancılık açısından iyi bir kitap olduğunu gösteriyor bence. İnsanın doğuştan iyi ve adaletli olduğu varsayımına inanan insanların güçlükle okuyacağı kitabın satır aralarında insançocuğunun gerçek yüzü; toplumda inşa edilen sözde adalet, küçük insanların küçük çıkar çatışmaları ve hesaplaşmaları da okunabilir.Okumamın üzerinden geçen sekiz yıla rağmen bende hala güzel bir yeri olan, nadide bir kitap.
What an amazing story!!! It is questionable as to what is true and what is not...many people have poked holes in Henri's story since its publication. However, still a fantastic book that I would recommend to anyone who enjoys a good old school adventure story of daring prison breaks and survival even when all seems lost. Since reading this book, I eat a coconut nearly everyday and think of the author in his little 3x3
Il est vrai qu’il en a vu papillon, mais le truc qui m’a le plus dérangé, c’est le surplus d’héroïsme, papillon est le plus habile, le plus intelligent, le plus rusé, certes, avec une volonté et une détermination pareille, on devient inventifs et on est prêt à parer tous les coups mais sans beaucoup trop exagérer quand même.Les points qui m’ont le plus frappé sont l’indifférence des autorités françaises ou internationales à la souffrance des inculpés, la façon inhumaine de les traiter, isolement, réclusion, cachots, mais surtout la persévérance et la pertinence de certains prisonniers à quitter ces conditions ainsi que leurs misères et à regagner coûte que coûte leur liberté.
این کتاب رو حدودا دو سال پیش خوندم. ترجمه کتاب واقعا بد بود گرچه داستان کتاب به شدت گیرا و جذاب بود که میتونست تا حدودی ترجمه بدش رو پوشش بده.زمانی که به این حقیقت فکر میکنی که داستان هایی که داری میخونی عین واقعیته حس و حال خاصی داره.4/5
كيف لرجل وضع تحت اسمه عبارة “ خطر جداً” أن يتحدث وبحماسة شديدة عن الشرف وكلمة الرجال وإسداء الجميل؟ هنري أنت مجرم، الشرطة اكتشفت ذلك والقانون صدقه، لقد نبذك المجتمع، نبذتك دولتك، بل ونبذتك الحضارة بأسرها!
فأنا أفضل أن أكون أمياً في هذه الضيعة على المجاز في الأداب من السوربون في باريس الذي تقمص يوماً ما روح المدعي العام وحكم علي.
“”ملاحظة جانبية: لطالما شق علي التحدث عن الكتب التي تعجبني جداً وتجعلني مبهورة، هذه الرواية ليست قصة حقيقية فحسب، إنها ملحمة بطلها شخص واحد وثقته المطلقة بإنسانيته السامية القابلة للإصلاح والتعديل.
And now I have to dump Papillon by Henri Charriere, a grand exaggeration (according to online accounts including wikipedia) of a wildly egotistical, "wrongly convicted" French guy who escapes prison several times using money that he has hidden from guards (think: Christopher Walken in Pulp Fiction, although I realize that Papillon came first), in order to one day write a meandering memoir full of his bafflingly bloated tall tales which would be made into a movie starring Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman.
I understand that, as the story proceeds, Papillon finds ways to celebrate life as he endures various miseries.
After suffering through about 100 pages I suddenly realized: I AM PAPILLON, and I am imprisoned in this book, and I need to escape!
This is the Best book I ever read.I remember I started to read it when I was 14, and during long travels to sorocaba city I used to read a little of it, getting back in favourite parts.Henri Charrière did something completally amazing.
Not one, but two: First was the escaping itself, from Devil Island..
secound was to describle this with perfect details, something that makes us imagine each movement and each scene...His passion for life made he survive to a unfair punishment and escape from many prisons, making friends and partners wherever he goes.I have no more words to describle this book, I just want ask you all for read this.
I bet you wont regret.
I have been meaning to read this book for a long time so I decided to tackle the 600+ pages this week.I loved the film and enjoyed the book almost as much. I have read that there is a debate as to how much of the story is Charriere's own experiences but nevertheless it makes a great read. Even though some of the adventures do take a lot of believing he obviously lived an extraordinary life and this book is well worth reading.
550 pages of prison escapes. Exciting, but wow, so many failed attempts. I figure if Papillon lived through 14 years of horror, the least I can do is read his 550 pages of escapes. He's certainly an example of "do not go gentle."
Absolutely fantastic read, what this man goes through is unbelievable.Honestly gets you from the 1st page and never let’s go.
I wanted to read this book so badly - I was in 7th grade, my sister wanted to take drivers education.
She did not want to ride her bike alone, so she bribed me.
Allowing me to read on the church steps while I waited for her lesson to be over.
BUT I GOT TO READ THE BOOK!
I do not know where my sister got the book, I seriously doubt she had read it.
It was my dad's book!
He gave it to her to bribe me with so she did not go alone & I was basically occupied for the hours....
