https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1823840.The_Religious_Body
Robin Bailey 5 Hours 18 MinsDescription: Sister Anne has been thrown down the cellar stairs, and Inspector Sloan wonders who in God's name would want to murder a cloistered nun? Sloan's task is complicated by the unusual witnesses - 50-plus discreet, identically dressed nuns, each of whom has an assumed name and a past secular life.
Her fellow nuns have been trained to "the custody of the eyes"--not to notice what does not concern them, which apparently is most anything that might help Sloan in his investigation.Sister Anne has been hit over the head with the proverbial blunt instrument and then flung down the convent's cellar steps in the hopes that the death will be put down to accident.
While delving into her past, Sloan discovers that Sister Anne came from a moneyed family...and depending on the timing of various deaths stood to inherit a fair sum.
The day begins like any other for Sister Mary St. Gertrude. When her alarm sounds at 5 a.m., Sister Mary begins rousting her convent sisters from their beds, starting with the Reverend Mother. Down the Order she goes with a knock and a warm blessing. But when the young nun reaches Sister Anne's door, there is no answer. She assumes that Sister Anne got up early, and continues on her way.
I gave this book two stars - 'It's OK' - and I think that suits it perfectly well.
I just read a review that described the book as barely adequate, yet gave it four stars - go figure.
If you like Agatha Christie and you've already read all of her books, give this one a try.
There's not much meat on the bone, but it moves along quite well, and suffers none of the flaws that make me stop reading books more often than I'd like.
Given that convents and monestaries have existed in Europe for over one thousand years, this attitude can only make me see the characters as bigots.
When the body of a murdered nun is discovered at the Convent of St. Anselm in the village of Cullingoak, Inspector C.D. Sloan of the Calleshire C.I.D. finds himself with fifty suspects—all black-habited nuns who at first look exactly alike to him.
It’s the sardonic Sloan’s first venture inside convent walls and, for most of the nuns, their first encounter with the police.
Before the killer is unmasked, both the police and the nuns will come to learn a great deal about each other.Another totally delightful Aird murder mystery with plenty of red herrings and a murderer I would never have guessed!Audio.
Inspector C D Sloan and Sgt Crosby (dense, dumb, and rather endearingly doglike) are called in to investigate the mysterious death of a nun, Sister Anne, who appears to have fallen down a flight of stairs.
As Sloan investigates, it becomes quite clear that the nuns do not make the best of witnesses.
Though "The Religious Body" dates from 1966, it feels more like the 1940s or 1950s.
I read a negative review on Amazon from someone comparing this book unfavorably with P D James' work.
Uhm, if you're looking for a P D James-style book, this is definitely not it.
The story opens with the discovery of a dead nun in the cellar of a convent; when Sloan is called in to investigate with young Constable Cosby, they soon discover what unreliable witnesses the other nuns are - they go about their peaceful, proscribed daily existence paying very little attention to the personal habits and routines of their fellow religious.
I read a lot of mysteries, and have enjoyed several series set in religious communities, but this was a new and interesting angle for me, a complication for the investigating police I hadn't foreseen, so that was the first thing I appreciated.I also enjoyed the interesting cast of characters Aird created; Sloan and Crosby are likeable and appealing, and there are healthy doses of humor.
8 DEC 2015 - recommendation through Bettie. Sounds exciting. Thank you!12 DEC 2015 - a new-to-me series/author. I really enjoyed this one. On to #2.
In The Religious Body by Catherine Aird, all is still at the Convent of St. Anselm when Sister Gertrude goes to wake up all the other 50 nuns. Knowing that Sister Anne’s cell sits next to a loud snorer, Sister Gertrude assumes her fellow nun has escaped from the noise unbidden. But when she doesn’t see Sister Anne at breakfast, she decides to tell the Reverend Mother, at the same time that Sister Peter discovers that the fingerprint she left on the gradual is of blood.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
Inspector Sloan, chief detective in Banbury visits nearby Cullingoak Convent with DC Crosby, after Sister Anne is bashed on the head, by smooth blunt object as yet unfound, and dumped down cellar stairs.
Similar to BBC-TV Midsomer Murders "A Sacred Trust" only in that one nun is mistaken for another seen decades before, investigated by Barnaby and Jones.
One observation sets Sloan "you wouldn't suspect a woman ..
"The police don't like coincidences" impels to answers.(view spoiler)[ Boy's Institute Principal Ranby "Namby Pam" p105 intends to marry religious Miss Faine in the Convent.
This is the first novel in the Detective Inspector C.D. Sloan series.
In this first installment Sloan is called out to a Convent to check out a suspicious death of one of the nuns.
Did a stranger enter the community of nuns and commit this terrible crime?
Was it one of the other sisters?Sloan is on the trail, but it is not an easy task.
Who killed Sister Anne?
It is fun to discover books from series that have been around for awhile.
Inspector Sloan is a great character and it will be interesting to see how he develops throughout the series.
You would think a 1966 novel on murder committed at a Roman Catholic convent in the English countryside would be dated.
You'll find the mystery of the murder of Sister Anne to be cleverly plotted -- as is the novel.
You'll grow to love Detective Inspector Sloan, despite his impatience and gruff exterior, and sympathize with the dim-witted but long-suffering Sergeant Crosby.I never guessed who the murderer was.
I also loved the detail of life in a pre-Vatican II convent, which was much less austere than I would have expected.
Open Road Media has recently given the collection of Catherine Aird mystery novels new covers.
When I was given the opportunity to read this novel again, this time in the form of a digital advanced readers copy, I was happy to jump back in to explore one of my favorite British mystery novels.
The novel moves at a slow, steady pace with the author building up the characters and the backstory in small amounts so that readers who want to catch every clue and solve the mystery for themselves will feel they have been given a fair try.
A talented writer, an interesting place for a mystery, a convent, but Inspector Sloan was a little too dry and humourless for me or maybe I just didn't get his dry humour. I also thought there were some fairly improbably assumptions in his sleuthing logic that dimmed my enthusiasm.Often first books in a series are harder to buy into, but then it was good enough for me to want to try the next book in the series.
4 STARS | There's a reason Catherine Aird was presented with the 2015 CWA Diamond Dagger Award for life-time achievement. She's very good at what she does and she does it in a minimal number of pages. Characters are interesting and Sloan & Crosby are once again amusing.
Finally! After so many duds, a good rollicking detective novel.
A lovely little British mystery. Nothing too exciting (to keep you awake), but enough mystery to keep you reading.
This is Aird's first book featuring Inspector C.D. Sloane and young Detective Constable William Crosby--a delightful pair.
Their first case together is a doozy: the murder of a nun in her convent.
Her body is discovered at the foot of the cellar stairs.
It soon becomes obvious that Sister Anne's death is no accident.
Sloan's frustration with the nuns' failures as eye-witnesses provides one of the book's several lighthearted moments.
It is always nice to discover a new (to you) author with a long backlist.
I'm looking forward to seeing Inspector Sloan again soon.
It's not as good as some of the later Inspector Sloan mysteries, but it was still quite mystifying.
The setting was good.
The convent setting made it just a little exotic, a little spooky, a little strange, and a little stifling.
That's incredibly important to the plot.
I really liked the way she used it to complicate her plot.
I wasn't quick enough to figure out the clues she left out in plain sight, but it was fun anyway.
I actually heard this as an audiobook, but that copy isn't on here.
It was very clean.
Just Enough Using humor, as well as mystery and suspense, The Religious Body gives you just enough of the twists and turns you crave.
A well-written, cozy mystery. I enjoyed the dry humor of Inspector Sloan and his patience with his clueless subordinate.
This was a good solid mystery marred by an unnecessary and distracting anti-Catholic vibe. I'm not Catholic or even religious but listening to all the police staff make fun of and shake their heads over women choosing a cloistered life was distasteful.
The job of solving the crime goes to Inspector C.D. Sloan of the Criminal Investigation Department of the Berebury Division of the Calleshire Constabulary, who makes his first appearance here, in the first published mystery novel (1966) of Catherine Aird (the pseudonym of Kinn Hamilton McIntosh).The murder is complicated by the Guy Fawkes Day burning of a certain nun-like effigy at the nearby Agricultural Institute, introducing scores of possible suspects to the original crime.
Then you have a cousin of Sister Anne who just happens to show up around the time of her death, and a look into the dead nun's life before entering the convent suggests there could very well be a financial motive behind her death.
(There's a female officer who shows up towards the end and is fine.) Since it wasn't until the last part of the book that we got to know any of the nuns there wasn't much to offset this male nastiness and it kept me from enjoying the book.
Then when the solution to the murders came I did wonder (view spoiler)[ why the murderer had spent all those years between one engagement and the second not marrying.
(hide spoiler)]So I'd recommend this to those who like mysteries for the puzzle but warn character oriented readers like me that they might not enjoy it as much.
This is the first in the DI Sloan series and I have previously read the second book, but that did not matter - they both stand alone well.
Sloan and his less intelligent Constable Crosby are investigating the murder of a nun in a convent and the life of the convent and responsibilities and other aspects of a religious life were well-described and interesting.
The second murder seemed as if it would narrow the range of suspects, but then the denouement was a big disappointment.
Her novels featuring Detective Inspector Sloan are exemplary police procedurals that are as engrossing today as when they were first released.
It is a pleasure to see Religious Body, the first Detective Inspector Sloan released in ebook form.Life in a convent is structured and predictable.
As the death is suspicious, Detective Inspector Sloan and Detective Constable Crosby are called in to investigate.Who would have wanted to kill Sister Anne, and how did the killer gain access to the convent?
The case is uniquely challenging, complicated by the strictures of convent life.The Religious Body is an exemplary British police procedural, intelligently plotted and deftly written.
BOTTOM LINE: Smooth, well-plotted "rural Brit traditional mystery", with a goodly dollop of tongue-in-cheek; first in a long series, and I'm glad there's more to read - while there's nothing spectacular in her first novel, it was entertaining and holds promise of better to come.
Similar to Reg Hill's "Dalziel & Pascoe" and Colin Dexter's "Morse & Lewis" series, although both of those were begun a few years later.
Aird's work is more comfortable and extremely smooth in execution; the first few D&P books were a mite awkward, the earliest Morse novels were a bit stodgy.
Sister Gertrude wakes all the members of the Convent of St Anselm as usual one morning but Sister Anne isn't in her cell.
Then Sister Peter finds blood on her thumb when she turns the pages of the Gradual and is mortified that she has damaged a valuable book.
When Sister Anne doesn't appear at breakfast a search is launched for her and she is soon located at the bottom of the cellar steps - dead.
Enter DI Sloan and DC Crosby to investigate what promises to be a difficult case especially when a relative of the dead nun appears the following day asking to see her.
I received a free copy of this book from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
This book introduced C.D. Sloan and D.C. Crosby.
I had never read any of their books before, but I was pleasantly surprised.
The story reminded me of one of M.
It is also refreshing to recall how police investigations were conducted in the past, when DNA didn't solve cases in 2 seconds and coppers had to actually do some sleuthing.
A nice, old-fashioned story, I will certainly add this series to my TBR list.
When a nun is found dead in the local convent, Inspector Sloan is called to the scene.
He finds himself faced with 50 suspects - nuns - who all dress alike and make it their business not to notice what is happening around them.
Sloan is determined to find out before anyone else is hurt.I'm always nervous when I see a book that claims to be similar in style to the mysteries of the "Golden Age" of British Mysteries.
Too often the book can't live up to the standards of the greats of that time.
