https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98048.The_Passion_of_Artemisia
Susan Vreeland fairly faithfully follows and recounts the real events in the life of 17th century Italian Baroque painter Artemisia Gentileschi Lomi.
‘Judith beheading Holofernes’ was completed in her late teens: Artemisia depicts herself as Judith and her rapist, the painter Agostino Tassi, as Holofernes.Married off by her father to an artist from Florence, Artemisia struggled to make a good married life in her new town.
There is no doubt Artemisia felt each and every one of these emotions about her art and her life as a painter.
Great art demands nothing less."Artemisia Gentileschi, 17th century Italian Baroque painter, was passionate about her life’s work.
There are some gorgeous descriptions of not just Artemisia’s work, but of the art produced by other accomplished masters of Italy as well.
As Artemisia’s name becomes known and her creativity sought after, she moves within Italy as patrons summon and commission her to paint for them.
An engaging and enjoyable piece of historical fiction, The Passion of Artemisia lacked a bit of a connection to its characters.
The narrative was a bit rushed at certain times, squeezing in a large portion of her life into a fairly short book, considering.
I love love love this book.
I found the book very interesting and well written.
I already knew about Artemisia from a movie I saw, but as usual, the book left a far bigger impression.The only thing that could improve this book, or at least the cheap Dutch edition I read, is a list of Italian words used and (color) prints of the paintings described.
When I finished the book and realised that I had just read about what was to become this painting, it felt very satisfying, as the book had come full circle somehow.Highly recommended!
Se è vero che da ogni libro impariamo posso dire di aver imparato a conoscere meglio questa donna e questa pittrice che risponde al nome di Artemisia Gentileschi, che fino a poco fa ignoravo.
I miei occhi sono ancora pregni di amore, di fascino, di bellezza, di arte, di sublime di fronte a una donna, una pittrice come Artemisia che non si è mai arresa, anche quando le circostanze giocavano a suo sfavore.
Una pittrice, una donna che, in un mondo ostile alle donne (siamo nel 1612), ha continuato, nonostante tutto, a credere in sé stessa, nei suoi sogni, nella sua vita e nel suo amore per l'arte.
Now at the end, I simply have deep respect for this woman, artist, mother and daughter.Through page 275: The lecturing has stopped, and I like the way the author is tying up the strings.
There is love and there is acceptance even of traits that are so very different between the mother and daughter.Through page 237: OK, maybe this is what is bothering me.
Through page 67; Artemisia is now in Florence, the city of artists!
Chevalier's book seems to be more about character study and what makes an artist an artist while Vreeland's is more about betrayal, so far at least.
Specifically the complete fight within herself between the want/need for a personal life and her over-whelming necessity to channel her art within painting.
It truly became a book I could not put down.Having read others of Susan Vreeland, I know how she can grab the depth of a character and an era.
Superb.This became a study of not only her painting onus, conceptions and biography- but much more in depth- the horrendous betrayal tale and if forgiveness or revenge triumphs in eventuality.
And the book also became a travelogue of all those marvelous cities and places of art innovation, seen through the eyes of the artists and philosophers of that era.
Personally, Artemisia is my favorite female artist. Enduring personal strife and showing the power of a woman, she is definitely a role model. Vreeland's novel provides a power insight into the life of the painter and yet smoothly and dramatically moves the story in an easy-to-read way. Powerful and yet entertaining. A must read!
Despite the fact the life of a female painter in what was pretty much a man's world was a great subject, the book failed to engage me somehow.
I felt unmoved by Artemisia's suffering in the same way she suspected her daughter Palmira was, and for the same reason, I suspect.
Perhaps I shouldn't object to Italian words and Italics in a book about Italy, but I did.Artemisia was a bit too much of a victim for my liking, and often, she was a victim of herself.
Looking back on what I had read I decided Artemisia was a very interesting person despite what I thought of her along the way.
Devo ammettere che l'arte non era la mia materia preferita a scuola, e che la mia coscienza non arriva nemmeno ad livello sufficiente da avermi fatto riconoscere il nome di Artemisia Gentileschi.Perché leggere un romanzo sulla sua vita allora?
Non importa perché quello che conta è ciò che l'autrice vuole raccontare, la passione per l'arte, la nostra gloriosa arte italiana che viene progressivamente ricordata!
È stata un'esperienza davvero piacevole e quindi la mia conclusione è: se la Vreeland è riuscita a farmi piacere una materia che credevo di non amare, cosa può riuscire a fare con altro?
romanzo biografia, biografia romanzata? Tutto questo ed anche di più.Artemisia vive, soffre, dipinge e noi con lei.Il mondo intorno pulsa, suda, combatte incessante e l'autrice ci fa vivere tutto questo senza cadute.Uno spendido viaggio nella creazione artistica e nel dolore e la dignità.
For you art lovers who also like historical fiction, this one's for you. Susan Vreeland is a very good writer of historical fiction, although I don't always like her subject matter, I did in this one. Along the line of Tracy Chevalier's Girl With a Pearl Earring.
This book is based on the true story of Artemisia Gentileschi, a woman ahead of her time since her passion for painting overcame all the turbulences of her private life. Her friendship with Galileo Galilei was remarkable in both ways. She was the first woman to be accepted by the  Academia .
”The two things I wanted most in life- painting and love- and one had killed any chance at the other. Why was life so perverse that it couldn’t or wouldn’t give me one shred of good without an equal amount of bad?” Artemisia Gentileschi is seventeen years old and on trial for accusing her father’s friend of rape. Publicly humiliated, shamed and basically abandoned by her father (a famous artist), her life is basically ruined. ”’In time, Artemisia, it won’t matter.’‘When a woman’s name is all sh
”The two things I wanted most in life- painting and love- and one had killed any chance at the other.
However, while Artemisia follows his orders, there’s one thing that rules over her life: her desire to paint, and to be the best painter that there is.
Susan Vreeland’s loose retelling of Artemisia’s life truly shows how great of a woman she was, while at the same time bringing to life the rich world of Renaissance Italy and the powerful themes of art, family, feminism.Not only was Artemisia the first truly recognizable woman painter her era, she was a badass one at that.
E' un romanzo solo blandamente biografico, il cui intento non è fornirci notizie precise sulla vita di Artemisia Gentileschi, ma raccontare la storia di una grande artista e di una grande donna, che ha lottato duramente per conciliare queste due anime eternamente in conflitto.
L'introspezione compiuta sulla protagonista è davvero accurata, non solo dal punto di vista psicologico ma da quello pittorico: per ogni quadro nominato ci vengono spiegate le ragioni che l'hanno portata a dipingerlo in un certo modo, rendendo ogni sua opera viva e densa di significati.
This was a wonderful, beautifully told tale of an artist named Artemesia who was portrayed as a woman painter in the seventeenth century.
Artemisia had a most tenuous relationship with her father, also an artist, with her husband, a philanderer and an unfaithful man, and her daughter who oftentimes bore the brunt of the lack of her mother's love because her mother devoted her very being to her art.
It was sad to read of the denials Artemisia suffered because within her very fiber lived an artist.
The life of a true artist is indeed a very hard one to live and Artemisia lived that life to the fullest.
I would have loved this book in middle or high school, but reading it now, at approximately 27, the writing and characterization were a bit too simplistic.One thing Vreeland does do well in this book is get inside the mind of the main character, a female painter in Baroque Italy named Artemisia.
Artemisia's relationship with Galileo was also a bit frustrating -- her version of spirituality (at least as Vreeland portrayed it) was simpering and cowardly, the kind of belief system that excuses ignorance by saying "Maybe there are some things we're not meant to know." That kind of sanctimonious, patronizing religion shows up a couple of times in the book and mars a character that I would otherwise find pretty likable.Vreeland's writing is nothing special -- not particularly artistic or out-of-the-ordinary, just workaday language that gets the job done.
Jeśli ta powieść jest wybitna to ze względu na temat a nie na autorkę.
Co ciekawe, to nie jest książka o samej Atemizji, ale o kobietach.
Nie mogłam się od niej oderwać, bo to historia, która składa się z innych historii, opowieść o życiu, które przebiega w relacji z innymi, nawet z tymi, który żyli trzysta lat wcześniej.
Teoretycznie łatwo pisać o wpływie na przyszłe pokolenia, kiedy już się wie, jaką rolę odegra Artemizja w kulturze.
Ale Artemizja u Vreeland niczego nie wie i niczego nie jest pewna, a mimo to – ma nadzieję.
Questa storia inizia qualche tempo fa, ero ancora al liceo, e la professoressa di letteratura italiana (adoro quella donna) stava parlando della sindrome di Standhal...E così per spiegarcela utilizzo i suoi sentimenti di fronte ai quadri di Caravaggio, ma, sopratutto di Artemisia Gentileschi, di cui poi raccontò la triste vicenda.Qualche tempo dopo in giro per La Feltrinelli a fare regali di natale, lo vedo e me lo regalo.Che dire, proprio un bel regalo!Susan Vreeland non la conoscevo ma in quanto a bravura riesce a tenere testa a Tracy chevalier, persino, in alcuni punti ( e la Chevalier è una delle mie preferite)Tornando al libro, la storia parte in Medias Res direttamente dopo un brutto evento, che segnerà per sempre la vita della pittrice e il suo rapporto con il padre, la porterà a lasciare Roma, a sposarsi con un perfetto sconosciuto, ed ad andare a vivere a Firenze.
I felt like I was back in Italy viewing all the amazing art & architecture primarily in Rome & Florence.
Lush descriptions that I was able to sink into while Vreeland unfolded the story of real life 17th C Italian Baroque artist Artemisia Gentileschi, the first female artist to be accepted into the Academy of Art in Florence.
Her passion was her painting and in particular, heroines.
Loved the vivid and detailed descriptions of her painting technique.
Happiness and despondency, Love and loss, estrangement and forgiveness, bitterness and acceptance...the cycle of life and relationships.
Artemisia Gentileschi was a total badass: she gets sexually assaulted by her dad's artist friend, is then pledged to be married to that artist, then has to testify in court against him and marry someone else for "convenience" because she is now "impure." Through all this, she perseveres in her own art, painting Judith after Judith beheading Holofernes and earning her spot as the first female artist in the Accademia. This was all truth, but only Susan Vreeland could write about Artemisia with such charisma and heart. This novel was truly about the passion of Artemisia instead of her pain.
"Quello che si fa è arrancare, mettere insieme il pranzo con la cena, un giorno dopo l'altro cercando di non pensare all'ultima pennellata. Quale sarà il colore? Che pennello userò? Quale effetto?"
this was everything i wanted it to be n im not gonna say much about it because its late n im super tired but this book reminded me a lot of my art teacher, who, out of all my highschool teachers is the one i still think about the most, that woman was a total badass, a super strong person who, even though shy by nature, lives her truest life and i will never forget about her
Questo riportano i maggiori volumi d'arte.Susan Vreeland con il suo "La passione di Artemisia" ci regala un affresco lungo tutto un secolo (il XVII) attraverso gli splendidi scenari d'arte di Roma e Firenze e personaggi dai volti talvolta carismatici, talvolta alteri.Tragica e appassionata biografia della pittrice caravaggesca, il plot si apre sulle vicende legate allo stupro subito dal pittore e amico di famiglia Agostino Tassi.
E tutta Roma s'era divertita" pag.40]Non ottenendo giustizia e sicurezza dalla sua città, Artemisia Gentileschi si trasferisce a Firenze, culla dell' arte, per coltivare il suo talento di pittrice.
This book was such an interesting read, especially considering the events are pretty historically accurate, as far as I can tell (which isn't too far, but still...).Aspects that make me lean toward 5 stars:- the story line!
Hmm. At a time when women went around veiled, I woudl have thought that to be a bit extraordinary.)And what finally tipped the scale to 3 stars:The way that Vreeland writes, this story is CLEARLY coming from a 21st century reality.
It sort of felt like Vreeland either got tired of writing this one, was behind on a deadline or just quit jotted down an ending because she really wanted out of the story.
I guess maybe I'm still too young and an angry person, but...I think forgiveness is over-rated.It was a nice look into what might've been Artemisia's life, but I don't have any idea why this is supposed to be a YA novel, other than maybe it's not long and isn't super in depth, but most of the book focuses on things that a current young adult aren't interested in.
It also skips over one of the most important things in her life; her repeated rape by her teacher and father's painting partner-it starts during her trial of accusing the man, but I feel like it was skipped over because the author wasn't sure how to handle it.
Non era una domanda, ma un'affermazione."Come fai a dirlo?
Non sei neanche scesa"."Ti entra in casa, se le permetti di farlo".Il libro mi ha sempre incuriosito e della Vreeland ho sentito parlare assai bene..
Detto questo, ripensando alla lettura, pur essendomi piaciuta molto, sento che il libro non finirà tra i miei preferiti o tra i papabili per essere, un giorno, riletto.
Ho poi il tarlo della verosimiglianza storica e pur non essendo un'esperta le discrepanze mi hanno uggiato..
Fatto sta che il romanzo è davvero evocativo, mi sono divertita tantissimo a cercare i quadri di Artemisia (splendidi!!!) e ritrovarne i particolari descritti..
I enjoyed this book more than I expected to--I picked it up at a used book sale simply because Vreeland's Girl in Hyacinth Blue is one of my favorite books.But what Girl has is clearly inimitable.
It's an unusual little book, and it is wonderful.Artemesia is more traditional historical fiction.
It is certainly readable and interesting, and I had never heard of Artemesia Gentileschi before picking up this book.
But historical fiction that distorts the little that is known to make for a better story just bugs me.
In this case, Vreeland readily admits (in the book club section at the back)to leaving out her brothers and her sons.
A fictionalized look at the life of Artemisia Gentileschi, an Italian Baroque painter in the 17th century.
I'd never heard of her before this, and I found looking up her paintings enhanced my enjoyment of the book.
The story begins during the latter part of the trial of her rapist, and continues through her times in Florence, Genoa, Rome, Naples, and London.
It's interesting how the rape trial was all but skipped, seeming to imply that we all know that story already, even though it shaped the course of her life for the next several years.
Reading about painted is often inspiring, and I've now been introduced to another talented artist.
I have a cute little niece with this same name so when I had to pick a book about a painter it was easy to pull this one up.
But with that being said, I think that is why I dislike her reprehensible characters because they also possess a thread of reasoning.
This book seemed a little on the gloomy side.
Women were treated like property with no rights and as true as that might be, the one problem I have with this author is that this is the only side she is willing to share in her books.
When I started reading this book I had high hopes, since it's a book about a female painter in Rome.
I was disappointed after the active beginning that most of it came across as either a textbook on art or on Italian history, neither of which I was expecting.
However, as the characters developed more and the timeflow became less irregular (or rather I became more accustomed to the irregularity), the real message of forgiveness and how our lives impact others came across.
Overall it was worth the read but could have used an editor with a heavier hand.
