https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114510.Eight_Days_of_Luke
Perhaps my favourite anecdote about this book is that Neil Gaiman said that he had to rewrite American Gods because he got to the end and realised that he'd just rewritten this.The real joy here is the slow-burning realisation of what is going on. The care with which Wynne Jones constructs the plot to ensure that the characters only appear on the appropriate "days" is only really apparent on a re-read, and the book is good enough to survive that without trouble.
With unending cleverness, Diana Wynne Jones weaves a wonderful tale of loneliness and friendship, heroics and half-wit relatives, dreary dull English life and the full legendary pantheon of Norway, Eight Days of Luke is the slow-burn story of an accidental protagonist stumbling upon an earth-shaking mystery and adventure.
Transforming the lives of disheartened David and everyone else around him, Luke tumbles into England and sets off an irreversible course of events destined to make David a new man if he's brave enough.
Diana Wynne Jones' writing is completely brilliant and charming, and it was my joy to share this lovely and inspiring story with the amazing Sveta.
2018:Nothing like an old favorite to make you feel all wrapped up in a warm hug. This book remains a delight, always.__________2007:I freaking love Norse mythology like you don't even know.This book is perfect.I only wish I'd known about it when I was younger; as happy as I am to know about it now, little me was also freaking in love with Norse mythology and would have enjoyed this so much.
I no longer remember which one, and both have a special place in my heart and my memory.I have been looking forward to rediscovering them both - and while both were published in 1975, Ms Wynne Jones' offical fan site lists Eight Days of Luke first, so that's the order I'm rereading.I went into the book remembering the basics - who Luke was and that it was based on Norse mythology - but the details were missing and I found I remember less of the aforementioned Norse mythology that I used to do.
He's smart without being obnoxiously so and I enjoyed sharing the adventure with him.Diana Wynne Jones was a brilliant author who could write amazing stories for children without ever "writing down" to them, while making those stories just as great for adults as well.
Anyway, you've had your chance to look away, here's the spoiler: this is based, to some extent, on Norse mythology.
That was apparent to me just about straight away, though through the wonders of my new medication I have no idea whether I read about that in the collection of Diana Wynne Jones' essays (yay side effects!).
I don't think knowing it's based on Norse mythology spoils anything: what would spoil things is knowing what Loki's done wrong this time, the exact identities of everyone in the background, and so on.
Don't know your Norse myths?
David is a Miserable Orphan forced to live with his neglectful, petty relatives.
Luke, as he introduces himself, seems about David's age and is a splash of color in David's otherwise dull and lonely life, but soon other characters start showing up, looking for Luke, and David's the only one who can protect him.I remember finding this book extremely clever and fun back when I was a kid.
It's a quick little book with some improbable Miserable Orphan Shenanigans, but if you liked the idea behind American Gods, you will like the idea behind this.
I think it's very competently written and the family resentment is superb, and that's all I appreciate here.
I'm not one for mythological stories in general, and this feels uninspired.
The treasure hunt is almost an afterthought; the plot in general feels half-baked, abrupt and poorly paced.
And everyone's willingness to go with the flow, to be so accepting of the madness interrupting their lives, isn't very plausible - and that creates a dissonance of sorts in the characters, who are great (in terms of development) in their family dynamics but unrealistic in their responses to all other situations.Oh well.
"I'd be very surprised, and I'd think you were pretending at first. But when I began to believe it I'd get a doctor to make sure you really were dead." Eight Days of Luke has a lot of the humour one finds in other of Jones' books, especially during the family quarrels. But the humour aside, I found this book to be quite average when compared to others of Jones' works. I didn't care too much about any of the characters and the fantasy element of the story was just laking. Or rather, the few part
Eight Days of Luke has a lot of the humour one finds in other of Jones' books, especially during the family quarrels.
By the end of the story, David implies that he now knows all the other characters' true identity - too bad he doesn't share it with the reader as, I agree, some are obvious, but others not so much.
It's only towards the end that it's revealed how horrible they truly are - or that is, most of them - I really liked Astrid, she turned out to be my favourite character.It's definitely a good and fun book, I just find that it can't keep up with most of Jones' other works!
Boy's stay with unpleasant relatives enlivened by invasion of quarreling Norse gods.Friggin' brilliant!
============================================Original review, with very much needed original update:============================================UPDATE: Please note: Whilst writing this review, I felt, well, rather… bonkers.Eight Days of Luke is just the sort of story that makes me feel quite jolly. As in, a normal setting, but you know… including something not quite as common. Which is equivalent to " ABSOLUTELY WONDEFUL! " I feel wearied for reason of not writing a dignified comma-inclusive list
Eight Days of Luke is stuffed full of British relatives (which have to make a book good, what?), fire (nine cheers), (view spoiler)[an accidental "jailbreak" (hide spoiler)] (ya!), a feller with one eye (ouch), cricket (don't say you are thinking of the insect), (view spoiler)[a sleeping Valkyrie (hide spoiler)] (well, with all that work they do, what do you expect?
If that was not enough, here's a tiny bit more.The plot was sooooo good, as alluded to in an above sentence (the one with the word "jolly" in it).
#readathon17 Ένα βιβλίο φανταστικούMy first Diana Wynne Jones and a delightful read!
And I was glad that though innocent he remained dangerous.I also loved David--I was worried he'd be somehow marked as a long-lost Norse character reclaimed during the story, and I was glad that he was allowed to remain an ordinary kid, with all the special powers of perception and daring that ordinary kids really have.
The ending with Brynhild's tragic love life, etc., was a bit distracting for me, because it took away from Luke and David and more kid-focused concerns, and I don't think kids unfamiliar with Volsunga Saga would get who she was in the space allotted, but the core story of two boys from different worlds become fast friends was simply terrific.
;______;
New York: Greenwillow Books.226 pages.Appetizer: David Allard is on break from school and instead of being sent of on an educational tour, his relatives have forgotten he was supposed to come home and so he is stuck with them and their criticisms of him.At first it seems like it will be a complete torture, but after chanting a random mix of words, a strange boy named Luke appears.
It's one of those older fantasy novels in which a character only has a limited time to, say, save the world, perhaps.
And instead of immediately running off to save said world, the protagonist has tea.
3.5 stars because I think if there had been maybe 10 pages more, I'd have given it 4.This was a fun little story about a bored and lonely child with an awful family accidently freeing some sort of mystical boy (one figures out quite early who he actually is) who tries to make his life better in return...
It was a bit weird.It was also fun to figure out who all of these sort of magical people who suddenly popped up in David's life thanks to Luke were.
It's cute and heartwarming and sometimes a bit alarming (the arson thing...).
And they're also often a lot more fun than adult books because children will just go along with all the weird stuff happening instead of digging in their feet like adults would.Anyway this was just a delight.
I really liked all the characters and the way that the author wove in all the different stuff from the Norse myths.
The ending was very cute and I just overall enjoyed the whole thing.This was a fun, quick read and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who likes Loki, Norse mythology in general, or fun magical adventures.
A complete delight from beginning to end.
This is a trickster Loki story, with a delightful middle-grade take on the character.
This is Loki at his trickster best: never malicious, but far from tame.David is a fantastic character, a good-natured boy saddled with a rather terrible family.
His understandable resentment of their treatment of him leads him to accidentally break Loki out of his imprisonment.
And from there the plot takes off.
There are disguised Norse gods, road trips and ravens a lot of fire and a rather remarkable amount of cricket.
And in the middle there’s a great friendship and the foundations of a fantastic chosen family.
The Gutter Bookshop in Dublin is a delightful, airy place, and while I was perusing the children’s and YA section there I came across a staff recommendation slip for Diana Wynne Jones' Eight Days of Luke.
It added such fun to one of the last days of my trip!David is a young man with a horrid family.
David can’t help thinking that it’s bound to be the worst school vacation ever.
David is in for an unforgettable and life-changing vacation.I’ve begun to think that the best way to start a Diana Wynne Jones book is with no pre-conceived ideas or introduction at all.
But when strangers start showing up, all looking for Luke, David's summer starts to be not just interesting, but dangerous.I think I like this book a little more every time I read it.
One of the things Diana Wynne Jones did better than practically everyone was elaborations on the naive narrator, dropping characters into strange milieux and having them describe exactly what they saw, creating a second narrative in which the reader gets to work out what the person's seeing ("I get it, it's a boombox!" "Mom, is that something they had back when you were a kid and dinosaurs roamed the earth?")Eight Days of Luke is more complicated than this, because the entire story is dual-layered.
If I had any quibble with this book, it's that I'd hoped for some clever twist or reveal as the pieces came together, a la HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE, but alas, I knew my Norse mythology too well to be surprised by certain aspects of the plot.
I had fun trying to guess how each character and location fit into the Norse mythology motif.
UPDATE: Please note: Whilst writing this review, I felt, well, rather… bonkers.Eight Days of Luke is just the sort of story that makes me feel quite jolly. As in, a normal setting, but you know… including something not quite as common. Which is equivalent to " ABSOLUTELY WONDEFUL! " I feel wearied for reason of not writing a dignified comma-inclusive list for a while, therefore what is a better time than now? Eight Days of Luke is stuffed full of British relatives (which have to make a book good
UPDATE: Please note: Whilst writing this review, I felt, well, rather… bonkers.Eight Days of Luke is just the sort of story that makes me feel quite jolly.
Eight Days of Luke is stuffed full of British relatives (which have to make a book good, what?), fire (nine cheers), (view spoiler)[an accidental "jailbreak" (hide spoiler)] (ya!), a feller with one eye (ouch), cricket (don't say you are thinking of the insect), (view spoiler)[a sleeping Valkyrie (hide spoiler)] (well, with all that work they do, what do you expect?
If that was not enough, here's a tiny bit more.The plot was sooooo good, as alluded to in an above sentence (the one with the word "jolly" in it).
There's a lightness to the story that is great for younger chapterbook readers despite being about the typical lonely, neglected British school boy.
What I liked best was the focus on disguised mythological Norse gods, making this a sort of American Gods for kids book.
This would be really great to read after doing a study unit on Norse mythology to see how fast the students can pick up on who is who before the book tells you at the end.
I think what keeps the book in the younger readers, more simple category is the simplicity of the storyline.
I loved this book from the first to its last page.
It's so smart and funny and so beautifully written that once I finished it my first thought was to immediately re-read it.
I liked David from the beginning, while Astrid was really a surprise, but the one I fell in love with was - rather obviously - Luke.
It's so rare to find Loki depicted in such a positive way, I really couldn't help myself.
I also loved the friendly relationship he seemed to have with Thor, and the always ambiguous and oddly affectionate way Odin acted upon him.
Finally I was pleasantly surprised by the ending.
One of Diana Wynne Jones' best. I have to admit although I had my suspicion when I read the book, DWJ succeeded in keeping me guessing. And when it all came to light at the end, I just couldn't help but go WOW YEAH!!
This isn't a review per se but I love how Diana often leaves her readers to the power of deduction at the end of every book. Once you've deduced it, bam! Mindblown.
I might re-read this.
What I remembered of this one is the exploration of ideas from mythology that don't require that the reader have any understanding of the myths, including the summoning of 'Luke' by the main character, David, by the breaking of the bonds by the random recitation of the necessary words.
The writing is mostly smooth, but aspects of both the worldbuilding and the characterisation kept throwing me out of the story -- I was sometimes too busy wondering what it was that I was missing in a particular scene to actually read it properly the first time through, and thus ended up rereading multiple pages.
Eight days of Luke tells the story of David, an orphan who is staying on summer vacation with foster relatives who mistreat him.
As they become closer friends in short time, David and Luke will have to hide the latter from the unexpected intentions of Mr Wedding and his people.
You add some norse mythology and then mix it for less than 200 hundred pages and there you go...Eight days of Luke (this was published in 1975, long way before HP).The premise of the book can be simple but it is far from plain.
Suffice to say that a young teen, David Allard, is extremely unwelcome when he comes home for summer break.
By accident, he releases a boy his age from a magical prison, and his summer becomes much more interesting.
I loved David; he's a very real kid, innocently blurting out things the adults find hurtful even though David has no malice at all.
Nonetheless, he and David are good and loyal friends to each other.
David's aunt Astrid also pretty much rocks.Summing up, a light, quick, beautifully written fantasy centered on a very real young boy.
In my opinion, Diana Wynne Jones was one of the best young adult writers in the world.
It takes place in a world seemingly just like ours, without the alternative history element of a lot of her books.
When an orphan boy is forced to holiday with his atrocious relatives and told repeatedly to be grateful, he strides off into the garden vowing to curse them.
Instead of the perfect curse, his mind latches onto something else and out of the blue he finds a new friend, one that appears at the strike of a match.
