https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158674.Nervous_Conditions
As the eldest sibling and only boy, the future hinges on Nhambo to use education to uplift his family away from their primitive conditions.Like Babamukara's children Nyasha and Chido who have been educated in England and at the missionary school for their entire lives, Nhambo develops a sense of arrogance towards his family, especially toward his younger sisters reminding them that they are girls and that the homestead is their future.
Tambudzai does not forget the upbringing that she came from, but on her later visits home she vows to achieve as much education as possible for a female from her era in order to lift her family out of its primitive conditions once and for all.In the past few years I have not enjoyed coming of age books.
Again, this is the white man’s education coming through.
That’s the end, really, that’s the end." She, like her cousin Nyasha, becomes a creature of flux, a hybrid, a person that walks between worlds and cultures without a true home.
But, she cannot fit into the white man’s world because she is black.
Franz Fanon’s (Black Skins, White Masks) arguments become thematic here; he argued that to accept the white man’s culture is to allow the African heritage to be destroyed.
As well as being a black person, Tambu is also a woman in an incredibly misogynistic society.
The painful process of expansion which made Tambu's story possible was blocked for many years - blocked by the patriarchal system which provided education for men and exploited women's physical labour at home.When her brother dies, Tambu is allowed - reluctantly - to take his place.
Brainwashed to believe in her own inferiority, she enters the world of education at her godlike, patriarchal uncle's mission school, and she defers to his charismatic omnipotent rule.
At one point, the narrator points how the women are unable to react to a situation as they wish to and feel morally obliged to because the identity that the society and culture have imposed on them (and which they have come to completely identify themselves with) expects them to stay silent.It is unfortunate indeed to think of families where only one child would be able to get the education - but to resist a better life style choice just because it seems western culture ...
(p 1)From this opening, introducing us to thirteen year old Tambu, we enter the world of a young girl on the brink of becoming a young woman in a patriarchal African society of the late 1960s, not far removed from colonial times, where she and all of the women around her nervously await the decisions of the highest male in the family as to their future.
She slowly begins to see that women around her, even the highly educated Maiguru, lose out in this system.'Your uncle wouldn't be able to do half the things he does if I didn't work as well!' 'You must earn a lot of money,' I breathed in awe.
I have experiences like that with books - something about a title can really work for me and I'll read the shit out of it.
They were engaging enough to make me want to keep reading, but I wasn't "feeling" the story yet.
But here Dangarembga holds a mirror up to some serious issues and calls them out for what they are, especially race (and prejudice), colonialism, and feminism.One of my favorite parts of the book involves a conversation Tambu has early on with her mother about the "burden" of being not only black but also a woman, and this theme carries on throughout the whole story.
"This is the novel we have been waiting for," said Doris Lessing.
What Lessing was waiting for was feminism, and to call this Things Fall Apart for girls is a simplification but it'll do if you need to describe it in five words.Like Achebe's classic, Nervous Conditions (1988, set in 1968) is about the conflux between African society and white interference.
(hide spoiler)] Somewhat in the background, Nyasha's mother Maiguru ((view spoiler)[who will become an unexpected ally to Tambu, arguing and winning for her the right to go to convent school, (hide spoiler)]) and Tambu's aunt Lucia fight their own battles.
I loved it, and I think Doris Lessing is right.
When a significant issue did arise so that it was necessary to discuss matters in depth, Nhamo's Shona – grammar, vocabulary, accent and all – would miraculously return for the duration of the discussionI have included this lengthy quotation because I wanted to show how subtly Tsitsi Dangarembga uses a passage like this to place each person in relation to the issue at hand – this technique is consistently used to develop characters, relationships, social positions, and the different effects interaction with colonial ideologies has on all of them.
I suppose what really got me was watching a young girl in an extremely male dominated world try to work her way through it to succeed in spite of a lot of adversity.
And to watch each of the women around her try to do so too.
What I really liked about the novel gets hit on in the author interview at the end, that there are no monsters in this book, each character does get to explain and be understood.
The author interview also mentions that Dangarembga finds race hard to write about.
And I'm not so sure it is a coming-of-age novel, as it's often described: Tambudzai, the narrator, is a teenager, and she gains knowledge and experience, but along the way she loses her confidence, perhaps even her sense of identity.There isn't a lot of plot here in the traditional sense, but at the same time there's a lot going on: there's Tambu's struggle to get an education; there's her relationship with her more worldly cousin, Nyasha; there's Nyasha's rebellion against her father's authority; there are the various other relationships within the family.
What I loved most about this book was the underlying story of coming to self and not so much to age.
In first person narrative, Tambu, a 14 year old Zimbabwean, speaks directly to the reader telling not only her story of growing up female in a patriarchal society, but also those of the women around her.
A choosing between self and surrender.The book had a warm conversational tone and was sprinkled with words in Shona, the native language, to describe everyday household items, endearments, greetings and ceremonies in a way that helped to fully immerse the reader in the story.
Unless you are reading for academic prowess, books should be a sort of escapism from the everyday stresses.The storyline was very interesting and captivating.
It is not everyday one reads about patriarch, colonialism, cultural prejudice and its effect on African women and girls.
The construction of the plot was long- winded rendering the storyline laborious.in terms of construction, the setting of the plot takes about 200 pages of the book (80%), the climax is when Nyasha has a psychological breakdown (3 pages) and then the story abruptly reaches its climax and ends.
Tambu's mother, timidly moving about the homestead and readily accepts the status quo.
"The condition of natives is a nervous condition" - Frantz Fanon,  The Wretched of the Earth , 1961 - This is the basis for the title of Nervous Conditions, an account of a young woman from rural Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) struggling to find herself amid influences from Western-educated relatives, missionary schools, and traditional family values. Africa is known by its cliches; it's easy to forget the faces behind them- this is a good account of the psychological hazards of colonialism and an important novel for those seeking insight into colonialist sociology.
This is an amazing African Feminist version of the classic "coming of age" novel. Think Great Expectations set in 1960's Zimbabwe and from the point of view of a girl caught between her native culture and that of British colonialism. I ordered a set of this book to teach College Prep Seniors but they're too dumb. I'm hoping to teach it to more academically-inclined seniors next year. (I might actually be teaching Honors Seniors next year!!!)
Nervous Conditions is a really excellent coming-of-age story set in 1960s Zimbabwe (then Rhodesia). It is narrated by 14 year old Tambu who struggles with the conflict between life on her family's homestead versus her longing for an education. The novel is full of strong characters - the women especially - and takes an unflinching look at themes of gender, race, class and colonialism, without positing any easy answers. I read this book for the Book Riot Read Harder Challenge task to "read a book of colonial or post colonial literature" and highly recommend it.
They're told in two languages to be grateful and subservient for what they get; but Tambu's English is as bad as Nyasha's Shona, and there's no language available to them to speak their own minds and write their own narrative.Nervous Conditions is something of a rarity in that it's an explicitly political novel that still manages to weave its opinionating into a strong (if slightly talky) and psychologically complex narrative.
Dangarembga has written a sequel, The Book of Not, which I'm sure I'll search out at some point; with Nervous Conditions, both she and Tambu take the right to be heard.
While reading this, I was continuously amazed at how Dangarembga managed to tap into the mind of a 7-8 year old Tambu, the narrator in this novel.
Highly recommend this!(view spoiler)["It was better when you were here because we could laugh about it, so it looked silly and funny and we could carry on that way.
Sometimes I look at things from his point of view, you know what I mean, traditions and expectations and authority, that sort of thing, and I can see what he means and I try to be considerate and patient and obedient, really I do.
But what I didn’t like was the way all conflicts came back to this question of femaleness. Femaleness as opposed and inferior to maleness.
A must read for any one in the African diaspora experiencing some kind of change in social class (e.g. being first in the family to attend college or graduate school) or otherwise having suspicions about the sources of their feelings of alienation.
Nyasha's character resonated most with me, as I'm a first-generation African-American college student of working class origins who ended up pursuing a Ph.D.: I, too, feel frustrated by what seems to be an obvious oppressive reality around me and the extreme deprivation that can encourage people to appear complicit.
When her brother dies, Tambu now 14 finds herself in a new world of opportunity and goes to live with her uncle to study.Her cousin Nyasha, who lived in England while her parents studied, is seen to be a rebel who talks back to the patriarch, fails to follow the strict traditions and is frustrated with the life back in Rhodesia.
She is a great counter to Tambu's conservatism and helps Tambu to see that life can be or should be different for women.It's a book on feminism, coming of age, the value of traditions, the impacts of being colonised, the dangers of making Africa a replica of the West and identity.
Colonial power and patriarchy are inextricably linked, and the men of the novel are decentred in order to illustrate this point.(view spoiler)[The novel itself is, in a way, Tambu's bildungsroman, her story of growing up, of emancipation from ignorance and a peasant's life.
"I'm not one of them but I'm not one of you," she says as she lays sick in a delirium of sleeplessness and anorexia, the physical manifestation of her psychic and emotional anguish.Maiguru, Nyasha's mother and Tambu's aunt, also suffers under the system of colonial and patriarchal power.
Nyasha's story is painful, especially when she is brought to see a psychiatrist and she (and her family) are told that "Africans don't suffer" hysteria, anorexia and anxiety.
Hieno ja eheä tarina Tambudzaista, tytöstä joka taistelee tiensä kouluun 60-luvun Rhodesiassa ja neljästä sukunsa naisesta, jota jokaista ympäröi omat ongelmansa. Hieman raskas tämä oli lukea, koska 300 sivua olisi voitu melkoisen kevyesti tapahtumiensa puolesta tiivistää kymmenesosaan, mutta toisaalta lukukokemus oli myös palkitseva, kurkistus maailmaan, johon muuten ei pääsyä olisi. Suosittelen!
Educated away from his family by white missionaries, he later was even able to study for five years in 1960s England, as did his wife Maiguru, and their children were partially brought up there.
Tambudzai might strive to equal and even surpass her brother, but what will she actually gain by that in a country where both black and white see excessive education as wasted on women.I liked that Dangarembga doesn't attempt to offer easy solutions to her characters' predicaments.
As the novel warns ominously, the problem is 'Englishness.' Could there be any other problem which lies at the heart of Dangarembga's brilliant novel of post-colonial Rhodesia.
Her 'nervousness' is invisible up until the last few sections - that in itself a metaphor - but equally invisible in the eyes of the African psychiatrists who struggle to take her seriously; contrast this with the beginning of the novel, and Tambu's struggles in selling mealies in order to pay for her education, and the reader will see how deep the metaphor between consumption and the self runs in this novel.
As she grows and her desires for education and knowledge increase, she finds that she is constantly fighting against two factors: the fact that she is female and the fact that she is African.And while she loves her parents and can find some beauty in her tiring and off-the-land life on the homestead, what she truly wants to go to school.
All those deep issues tossed around in a story of a girl and her cousin, trying to figure out their place in a society that was set up to keep African women as small as possible.I really enjoyed reading this one, but I can't call it a page turner, really.
When I’m told to read a book, I never enjoy it.
This happens a lot with books I read for university.
I can instantly tell why this novel is on the curriculum, it’s absolutely crying out for a postcolonial reading.
From the obviously contentious setting of Rhodesia to the repeated use of the word “Anglicised” throughout the narrative, this novel is plastered about every postcolonial course in practically every university in the Western world.
I’m not sure what that does to a novel.
For me, it makes it lose the one that I look for in a book – enjoyment.


This novel illustrates the violence of poverty, racism and patriarchy in post-colonial Rhodesia. A provocative meditation on the ways in which these intersecting systems of power can rupture the psyche...much like Breath, Eyes, Memory, the depth of the trauma is not made explicit until the end. While this is not necessarily a sensual novel, the characters are comlex and compelling, forcing introspection through their dialogue. Very interesting relationships between issues of colonization and the body, as well as consumption and power....
What a fantastic read! Now I completely understand why this book comes highly recommended. This is a story every African child should read. I relate to both Tambu and Nyasha. Every theme in this book is exactly what frames my politics. Incredible! 👌
