https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140606.Maigret_s_Pipe
Simenon, George. MAIGRET’S PIPE: SEVENTEEN STORIES. (1940s; Eng. trans. 1977). ****. These stories were originally published in France as a collection in 1947. This is the second set of Maigret titles to be translated into English. You cannot read this collection straight through. If you try, you will find that they become all of a piece. This now becomes a ‘dipping’ book – one or two stories a night. Turns out that my favorite story was the title piece. I particularly liked it because it showed
MAIGRET’S PIPE: SEVENTEEN STORIES.
These stories were originally published in France as a collection in 1947.
This is the second set of Maigret titles to be translated into English.
You cannot read this collection straight through.
If you try, you will find that they become all of a piece.
This now becomes a ‘dipping’ book – one or two stories a night.
Turns out that my favorite story was the title piece.
I particularly liked it because it showed Maigret in a totally different light than we have become used to seeing him in.
He solves a crime, of course, but only as a second thought.
This time, said woman is accompanied by her adult son whom (another trope) she treats like a child and who wishes he were anywhere else.
When they leave, Maigret discovers that said young man has lifted, not just one of his many pipes, but his best pipe, his favourite pipe, the one Madame M gave him as an anniversary present some time back.And that really will not do.We discover that the young theif has vanished from his home and place of work, taking nothing with him: no clothes, no money--not even his shoes!
Where did he go?Maigret's going to find out, whatever it takes.
ok, das ging schnell. 😅Jetzt hab ich auch endlich mal einen Maigret gelesen. 😌
A wonderful collection of stories. The characters and the locations in the Maigret stories stay with you. They could only have been set in France; no other location would work anywhere near as well.
French: A very short book. A widow and her son search out Maigret at the PJ to report intruders in their home. While in Maigret's office, the son pockets Maigret's favorite pipe as an homage to hiscelebrity. The son tries to investigate on his own, suspecting that the intruders must be looking forsomething valuable left by a previous boarder. In the end it's "la pipe de Maigret" that ultimatelysaves his life. Not one of the best.
Molto carino e leggero, ma non è per niente superficiale. Infatti Maigret indaga su un caso che inizialmente non considera serio e ciò che lo muove é solo la volontà di ritrovare la sua pipa. Ma proprio per le caratteristiche di questo caso credo che Simenon riesca ad indagare bene l'animo umano. Ho letto il libro in lingua originale, se si ha un livello A2/B1 non è tanto difficile.
Short gems from the master of mysteries.
😍😍😍
I always love these short stories.


4.5 out of 5 stars -A wonderfully constructed set of French short stories involving murder victims and suspects from a wide variety of life's circumstances.
Maigret is a well known detective known to close cases that others can't solve.
Though at times, the reader is not privy to every aspect of Maigret's thinking.
Each case is quite distinctive from the next.
Towards the end of the book, Maigret attempts to leave Paris and retire from police work.
Somehow, new cases still find their way to his front door.
I dreaded finishing the last page because I still wanted more stories.
Simenon's Maigret is unique in his approach to crime and criminals. He never seems rushed and he maintains a contemplative mien while keenly observing the context of crime. If the criminal doesn't come to him with a confession, he usually extracts is while remaining empathetic. Simenon mined the Maigret lode for decades. These stories are brief encounters with the policeman from his earlier days. They are "rough around the edges" as if Simenon had not fully conceived of his Maigret at this point.If I were coming to him for the first time, I wouldn't start here.
Although I am a big fan of Simenon, I have to say that I didn't enjoy these short stories anywhere near as much as his novels. One or two of the seventeen are very good but most are just OK. Two and a half stars would have been about right.I am also going to try Maigret's Christmas which contains the rest of his short stories but they are much longer short stories than these, more like novellas.
A nice selection of Simenon's stories featuring Maigret. The first stories are relatively brief, but the last 7 are more lengthy and substantial reads. Good introduction to Simenon - especially the last stories.
Not really a Sherlock Holmes or Hercule Poirot but this book takes you back to mid 20th century France. Recommended
très vite lu...très vite oublié
I just enjoy walking through streets of Paris, its cabarets and other dark places with Maigret. There isn't one story yet, that has not fascinated me.
A compact Maigret story.
fascinating short stories
