https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/882053.The_Daybreakers
…pride and whiskey are a bad combination… I’m intent on watching the mini-series / two part TV-movie (The Sacketts, 1979), so I’m reading the books on which it is based first. Namely: The Daybreakers & Sackett. They come conveniently collected in a Centennial Edition paperback.So, let’s see.What do we have here?The gunfight(s). Check.The moments seemed to plod, every detail stood out in sharp focus, clear and strong. Every sense, every emotion was caught and held, concentrated on that man c
Every sense, every emotion was caught and held, concentrated on that man coming up the street.The close shave with the locals.
Check.They wanted me mighty bad, but that horse didn't like Utes any better than I did.
I’ll stop now, before I end up quoting half the book.The saga of the Sacketts is rather ambitious, and actually encompasses something like 19 novels and two short story collections.
Great fun all round.The Daybreakers tells the story of Tyrel and Orrin Sackett who flee west after settling a family feud in the only way that makes sense (with a gun, of course).
L'Amour usually doesn't spend any words on describing what his heroines actually LOOK LIKE (*glares pointedly*), but this time, he did, so I could picture Dru with no trouble at all.
- (More of Tye and Dru actually together would've been nice though????) - THE SACKETTS' MOM IS A LADY HERO AND I WANT TO MEET HER AND GET HER AUTOGRAPH.
But it's the kind of plotting where you know you really just need to take notes for your own stories; it's THAT good.
Conclusion:I think Tye Sackett needs a hug.
Deciding to read the Sackett novels in chronological order was bound to have some rough jumps as they were written throughout L'Amour's career—and completely out of order.
Indeed, he starts the book functionally illiterate and that's a complete betrayal of how important reading has been to all the previous generations (where even Jubal the loner was a man fond of his books and praising the virtues of classical education).
So the characters were more complex, but the story much less so.So it felt like his "loss" in characterization over time was almost exactly balanced by a "gain" in storytelling.
The Wild Ones, by artist Andy Thomas[image error]http://www.andythomas.com ★★★★ This is a review of the audiobook, with excellent narration by David Strathairn. It is from first person POV, and Mr. Strathairn is at his best as a young gunslinger that uses his wits and reason as well as his talent to talk more than one man out of drawing against him. Mr. Strathairn does NOT use a falsetto voice for the innocent young female voice, but a butter soft Spanish accent. Very nice! Still, it is a Wester
It is from first person POV, and Mr. Strathairn is at his best as a young gunslinger that uses his wits and reason as well as his talent to talk more than one man out of drawing against him.
Mr. Strathairn does NOT use a falsetto voice for the innocent young female voice, but a butter soft Spanish accent.
Still, it is a Western in the truest sense of the word, so we get plenty of horses, cattle drives, Indian & bar fights, disagreements over found gold, and life-changing decisions as the two young Sackett brothers, Tyrel & Orrin, grow into men over the years.
LOUIS L'AMOUR, WHAT HAVE YOU DONE TO ME???Answer: he's broken my heart with this STUPID AWESOME BOOK AND ITS STUPID AWESOME CHARACTERS AND ITS JUST PLAIN STUPID AND HORRIBLE ENDING. Uggggggggh.*bawls*TOMMMMMM.
Brothers Tyrel and Orrin Sackett head west and settle in Colorado, struggling against rough men and injustice as they gradually rise to the challenges of keeping their foothold in the frontier.My first Louis L'Amour, recommended by Ben, was my first experience with a traditional Western.
This was an excellent chronology told by Tye Sackett, a young gun with a solid sense of right and wrong, filled with tense situations and cinematic gunfights.
The characters and their arcs are believable and tragic.
My only real complaint was how Native Americans are portrayed as barbaric and almost alien, otherwise I appreciated the virtues and flaws of all of the memorable major characters.
3.5-4 starsThis was the first book by Louis L'Amour that I've read, and I enjoyed it!
:) I wouldn't call it my favorite type of book...
it took me a while to read the whole thing, but I liked it.
:) I liked Tye and Dru.
<3 I also liked Orrin, though he is bad at picking a wife.
That ending...
:( Well, it was pretty much the ending.
:PAnyhow, I'd recommend this to those who like Westerns!
;) There was swearing in the book, though, just so you know.
Not really bad ones, but it's in there.
nasty and mystical - a hard land to survive in.- Some hints of Cormac McCarthy here: Cities on the Plain, All the Pretty Horses.- One has mixed feelings about the killing of Indians(or, as my sister would insist, Native Americans) for pretty much any reason.
It seems that the author(or an editor) went out of his/her way to keep this book short.
I liked that the author assures the readers after the ending that all of the locations are authentic, and that he has personally been to every one of them - cool!- An easy 3* book.
Louis La’mour’s sparse but colorful style perfectly suited the fast-paced passage of time portrayed in The Daybreakers and he captured the grim, hard, inevitability of this setting and this plot with a steely hand that did not make it in any way depressing.
Within a few pages, Tyrel Sackett had joined my hallowed halls of favorite characters of all time.
Humorous, humble, quirky, dangerous, ignorant but anxious to learn, shy, mean, kind and hard – Tyrel is a one-in-a-million character.
What a relief to read a book where REAL MEN are portrayed.
Tyrel is a man that BUILDS his future and wastes no time in doing it.

Great! Mama just finished reading it out loud to the family. Very enjoyable.
Great book
ISBN from 1980 https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Tyrel Sackett ~18, fastest gun alive in Tennessee, "ugly" quiet, narrates brothers' flight west after he kills to save extrovert Orrin.
Tom Sunday teaches Orrin letters, turns angry vengeful drunkard; ol' Cap Rountree stands by.
Tye likes Señorita Drusilla 15 "shy of sixteen" p 16; Orrin hankers after yaller hair Laura Pritts, reminds Tye of "hammer-headed" p 11 ornery bronc, her pa kills for Spaniard's land.
a good man" p 134 is one of many names who come back later.
Scarier are villains let live, like Laura, who causes deaths of The Lonely Men later https://www.goodreads.com/review/show....
What a story!
I read this decades ago when I was in high school; it was my introduction to Westerns.
I loved it then and I love it now.
In the Sackett series, this introduces my favorite Sacketts, Tyrel and Orrin (Tell is mentioned).
Since I moved to Texas and had the opportunity to see New Mexico, I can see how well L'Amour described the land.
It was a different time with different attitudes and L'Amour makes the reader see that clearly.If you've never read a Western, then this is the perfect introduction to the genre.
It is well worth reading.
This is probably my favorite of the Sackett books, mostly because I like Tyrell a lot.
He gets plenty of mentions in other books, mostly along the lines of "What, you're a Sackett?
Are you related to the Mora Gunman?" (To which Tell Sackett replies along the lines of "Sure, he's my younger brother.
One thing that I really like about the Sackett Series is that if you go through them all, you probably get the broadest range of L'Amour's plotlines, plus some of his best and most unique stories.
Tye and Orrin Sackett, fast guns and close brothers, make up for transgressions out east by forging their way out West and bringing law and order with them.
Written by the Danielle Steele of the western genre, Louis L’Amour doesn’t disappoint in his sixth installment of the Sackett saga.L’Amour brings the reader right into the story--you feel the tension as an impending fast draw takes place, smell the gunsmoke, and (eventually) relax into the wonderfully described western big sky splendor.
This is a fast read, and one that won’t disappoint.
This is a great introduction to the genre too, if you’re unfamiliar.
This is my favorite Louis L'Amour western novel (out of over 75 read). It's probably because I like Tyrell Sackett so much as a POV character but I also love the Sacketts overall, especially the three brothers depicted here. Along with that, it is one of the first L'Amour books I had read back when I was in my 20s so I suppose some nostaligia effects my judgement. I've even watched "The Sacketts" movie a few times which depicts this story along with "Sackett" simultaneously.
I was in the mood for a western and in doing some research I read that this book was the best of the Sackett series. It was a very good book and I would have continued reading the series if the subsequent books had been based on the two Sackett brothers in this book. Apparently the remaining books are about a brother mentioned but wasn't a part of this book. It was fast paced and had all the elements of a great western novel!
this was the perfect break from a bunch of non-fiction. the audio version was beautiful and captivating. the storyline was simple, sweet, and classic. no deep themes or poignant metaphors here, but I loved it and I now plan to have a Louis L'Amour novel always on hand for whenever I get bogged down by heavier lit
Finished The Daybreakers and loved it, its so what like the movie which I happen to love, loved the characters and everything about the story just can't believe it took this long to read,while be reading the second part of it later.five stars all the way.
I like this series very much. What I especially appreciate about this book is it's keen insight into how people think, friendship, and what turns a friend into an enemy.
The Sackett stories are some of the best L'Amours, which makes them very good indeed. :)
Sackett novels have yet to disappoint. I love how they are all similar yet different.
I really enjoyed this novel. It has some interesting character growth and changes, nice commentary about the era, and great character introspection.
read some time in 1979
Tyrel fell in love with the don's granddaughter drusilla and Orrin fell in love with Jonathan Pritts’s daughter.
They stopped Jonathan Pritts and in the end Orrin got divorced with Pritts’s daughter and Tyrel married Drusilla.
This is one of the most important gunfights of the book and it is Tyrel against Tom Sunday,”There was an instant before he drew when I knew he was going to draw.
My text to text connection is in other books about the west there is gunfights.
My text to world connection is that this book is just like the west in real life when it was the 1800’s.
This was the first of the Sackett family books that L'Amour wrote.
All the other books they were as well read as any other man of the time.This story sees the end of the Higgins's feud.
The last member of the family dies just as Orrin is getting married.
Tyrel kills Long HIggins and in order to avoid the law sets off for the west.
This story is all Louis L'Amour so if you are a fan you should enjoy this book.
And in many ways it is a better story.Louis L'Amour is a master storyteller.
He created the narrator hero, Tyrel Sackett, as a young Luke Skywalker.
His brother Orrin Sackett takes the Han Solo role from rogue pilot to New Mexico Sheriff and eventual congressman.
Drusilla Alvarado is the Princess Leiah character).
And then he later turns on the Sackett family because of a wrong he feels from Orrin.
The confrontation between Tye and his dark-side father figure is inevitable.The writer abilities I see in the author deserve a much more detailed analysis, but I loved this great American novel and strongly recommend it.
This one is told through the proverbial "fastest-gun-in-the-world" first person of Tyrell Sackett and follows him, his brother Orrin and their friends Cap Rountree and Tom Sunday as they head west to find a new home after Tyrell kills a man in their home state of Tennessee to save Orrin.
Orrin falls for Pritts' daughter Laura, but the main stress of the story is the fact that Tyrell falls for Drusilla, the granddaughter of Don Luis in Santa Fe...the very man Pritts is trying to drive out of the territory.
This book, along with the following "Sackett" was the basis for the film "The Sacketts."
My oldest son loaned me a copy of "The Daybreakers," after we watched the 1979 movie "The Sacketts" with Sam Elliott, Tom Sellek, Jeff Osterhage, and Glenn Ford, which is based on the book.
The novel recounts a deep and painful friendship spawned in the dust of a cattle trail that partially dies in the dust of a town street.
It teases out the growing love between the two boys and their sweethearts, and love gone bad.
The tale also exhibits loss of blood, family and friendship ties as thick as blood, and bad blood.
