https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93768.War_of_the_Twins
There is a problem with DragonLance books. They feel amazingly good as long as you're captivated enough to actually enjoy them. But when you no longer enjoy them, all the huge flaws come crashing down on you.Nothing about this series is particularly great. It is, however, a wonderful and enchanting series when it actually works. And sometimes, it simply doesn't.War of the Twins is by far the weakest DragonLance book I have read so far. And yet I'm as excited as ever to read the next one.
so much evil is done by the supposedly "good" characters without any recognition that their acts are evil that I am fairly certain that what I love about the book is not intended by the authors; 5.
Regardless of its flaws, War of the Twins is a personal fave for me simply because of the way it stumbles onto something meaningful in the good and evil debate, and because it offers me something that few other books can: license to love the "bad guy" Raistlin, who may not be so bad after all.
OK, I know I had read this book (and the entire Legends trilogy) back when they first came out 30 years ago ((view spoiler)[I am old (hide spoiler)]), but to be completely honest, I didn't remember anything about this book when I started reading it.And, now having finished it, I think that's because, for better or for worse, it was a quintessential middle novel of a trilogy.At the end of Time of the Twins (the first volume), Caramon, Raistlin and Crysania, after having traveled 300 years into the past, had skedaddled out of the legendary city of Istar, on account of it was about to be smoten by the Gods as retribution for the arrogance of the Priestking and the other inhabitants.
While the books still have a certain entertainment value it's hard not to notice their many flaws – not least the underdeveloped characters (Crysania) and the serious plot holes.SPOILERS The main problem I had re-reading the book is that's its difficult to reconcile Raistlin's supposed cunning & intelligence with the major mistakes he makes in executing his plan.
Given we are told in Astinus's Chronicles that Fistandantilus contacted his apprentice in the future, could Raistlin's have gone back to the past in the original timeline only to be drained by Fistandantilus rather than give versa?
What they DIDN'T realize was that this was the second in this particular storyline, and since I'd never read any of the other Dragonlance books I ended up jumping in with no prior knowledge of the characters, or the world, or the story.
I did end up reading all of Chronicles, Tales, and Legends, and throughout the whole series THESE were the characters I loved best.It's also probably one of the reasons why I like Tasselhoff, when he annoys the tar out of everybody else.
Sequels are rarely as goos as the original. The Legends trilogy is actually better than the original. Raistlin is one of my all time favourite characters and I know I'm not alone here. The relationship between the brothers is heart-wretching. If you love fantasy and have not read this book yet do it now. Classic.
100 années se sont écoulée depuis la dévastation, le monde est en proie au chaos, chacun cherchant à survivre dans son coin.Leur but est de trouver le portail pour entrer dans la dimension de la Reine, mais nos amis vont vite se rendre compte qu'on ne peux pas si facilement changer le passé, et qu'ils sont obligés de suivre le même chemin que les personnes dont ils ont pris la place.
De l'autre coté on a Caramon, mais au final si ce personnage est le principal, il est surtout la pour marquer le contraste entre les deux frères.
War of the Twins is the second book of Dragonlance: Legends series, which was written by Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman in 1986.It is interesting to read a book which was written nearly 30 years ago and it is still a popular book among fantasy fiction readers.After reading some Forgotten Realms novel, reading a Dragonlance novel is really interesting.
Dragonlance world is more epic in style.
War of the twins brings the Legends series proves once again that the quality is so even among the books it deserves mention for that alone.Raistlin and Caramon each come into power and their long troubled relationship as brothers diverts to a bitter rivalry, toward redemption through wisdom and mutual understanding. Paladine plays a subtly supervisory role in things as always, and Tasselhoff is as singular in manifestation as ever.
What a great middle book! Rather than lagging in action, the action builds incrementally until the very strong climax at the end. I can't wait to read the final book in this trilogy. Weiss and Hickman are masters at character building and world building at the same time so that neither characters nor setting suffers. It's unbelievable how deftly they move from place to place and time to time with such detail. I've now read seven Dragonlance books and am nowhere near tired of this world.
Weis ve Hickman'ı ayakta alkışlamak istiyorum, muhteşem! Heyecanım bir an bile geçmedi okurken, serinin diğer kitaplarında olduğu gibi bunda da kahkaha da attım, ağladım da. Karakter gelişimi açısından harika detaylar vardı, hikayedeki metaforlar, göndermeler... hepsi muhteşemdi; çok çook sevdim :)
Önceki kitabıyla birebir aynı kıvamda. Epik sona doğru hikaye hazırlanmaya devam ediliyor.Ejderha mızrağı serisinin olay örgülerine güvenimi kaybedeli çok oldu fakat hala tutunacak birkaç karakter ve onların gelişimleri var.
Another amazing Dragonlance story, exactly like its predecessor!The first book made me have great expectations about the sequel, and I am happy to say that these expectations were fully met.
The action scenes and the general plot kept being interesting, the comic interludes were really cute, and the descriptions vivid and well-written.
He had the most complicated story arc, and it was really interesting to see the changes in his mood, the unexpected moments where he displayed affection and happiness, as contrasted to his normal cynic and evil nature.
until he (view spoiler)[ killed dear little Gnims.
Who is he, Raistlin or Fistandalus and not even his own brother is certain.
After his confrontation with Fistandalus not even Raistlin is certain who won for Fistandalus was renown for taking bodies of younger men to house his evil soul.
It is clear though that Raistlin will betray him, if it serves his purpose.
The story swaps between the past and present where Kitiara, Raistlin and Cameron’s sister is forging her own bloody career in the Dark Queen’s army, bringing the world to the precipice of war.
Tas finally gets his wish as he finds himself in the Dark Queen’s realm, the abyss.
When it's good, it's great.
Sometimes scenes cross the line between heartwrenching and overly sentimental.
There is something very moving in the complex relationships in this book.
And some dialogues brought a tear to my eye (bit sentimental myself).
There are a lot of wonderful details and there is quite a lot of (potential for) nuanced depth in the relationships between Raistlin/Caramon, Raistlin/Crysania, Raistlin/his mother and Crysania/her god Paladine.
More a book for a fast reader who is willing to overlook passages than one to savour for weeks, but a satisfying read nonetheless.
I really enjoyed this book, it brought to light a side of the characters involved that you just don't get from the Dragonlance Chronicles trilogy.
The only reason I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 is because I thought the ending could have been wrapped up better.
I know there is a third installment to the series, but the second one should still feel like it had a legit ending and I just thought that it fell short of this.
Still a great book, but I just didn't buy the ending.
When I was a teenager and the quest to read every available Dragonlance novel was fresh on my mind, I read this book.
I loved Caramon and Raistlin from the very first page of the Dragonlance saga that I ever read, so reading this series was very important to me.It was full of actions, full of intrigue, and full of adventure, but it left me with many questions and newly-formed opinions.My biggest question was how can Raistlin make as many mistakes as he does?
Give him pig-tails and bubblegum and he would become a stereotypical gum-popping teenage girl in this book.
Having travelled into the past, the brothers are bound together in an uneasy alliance... the difficulties of their relationship forming the underlying theme of the book. Delving more deeply into the characters of each of the protagonists but never letting up on the action, this is another captivating instalment in the Dragonlance/Legends series.
"Dragonlance: Legends" is actually a good series. And that's weird, because game-inspired books do tend to suck big time. I give most credit for complexity of Raistlin's character and for the fact that Caramon suffers from PTSD. And that's just great, because too often fantasy heroes tend to be completely immune to distress and we know that human mind doesn't work that way.
Started slow with long scenes in the dark, but the character's grew so much and the characterizations were sooo deep throughout the whole book that it made the journey worthwhile. Loved the first-hand look at the Dwarven nations and some of the heroes mentioned in the first trilogy. Again, this book adds so much to the saga!
OK so much happens in this story. It was slow starting but entertaining once Tas left the Abyss. Caramon is back to himself and has been completely severed from Raist and we see what Raist is truly capable of.
Very dynamic and emotionally charged book as main character feelings are torn between logical thing and love for family. All this is spiced with epic battles, betrayals and old friends newly found.
That Dragonlance spin-off novels continued to be published like clockwork for the following 20 years is all the proof needed that Weis and Hickman had captured the imagination of a profitable market, and yet their cache and credibility as writers took a nose-dive dramatically quickly and although they went on to produce the superior Death Gate Cycle (and many other series I’m sadly not yet familiar with – I’ll rectify that at some point!) fashions quickly changed and the semi-conservative high fantasy of the 80s was swept away by the indepth characters and realism of a Robin Hobb or George Martin.
He continues to play a critical role in Raistlin's ultimate objective to challenge the Dark Queen, however, because his presence allows the past to change.
Either the ultimate gambler or ultimate optimist, when free will is involved, one never knows which way things will go.I am a bit confused about Raistlin/Fistandantillus in this portion of the story.
It shows some good trials and character development.
Also, it continues to make the reader wonder what is motivating the characters, as well as how this is all working due to the time travel paradoxes (and why the gods and everyone else seem to be assisting in his goals).
Legends of the Dragonlance 2 by Margaret WeisRating: 3,5/5 starsSynopsis:This book plays in the presence again and now Caramon and Crysania have to help Raistlin to fight the Queen of Darkness.
Also, there were some points of the plot where I’m not entirely sure whether they were really so logical.The first half was awfully long and dragged so much that I sometimes didn’t want to continue reading.
The plot only survived because of her dumbness and she’s so arrogant and blind and naïve and aaaaaaah!!I hate her.The others are alright.
It's a word synonymous for many with love, safety, family, and contentment.
For others, it is a hollow word; a single syllable as haunting as an unseen specter and something to flee from and it is that word that becomes the focal point between two twin brothers.
I could go on about plot points, but honestly, since these reviews are just for my future me, I'll keep it simple.
Gods, good vs evil vs neutrality, time travel, and all the bits in between support that first and second point.
In closing, I suppose when we all hear the words, 'Come home...' we have to decide what that means.
Okay this was much better than the first one.
I had a feeling that if I hung in there it would get better.
This one moves the general story along better and ties in with the original series more firmly creating a lovely harmony within this world.
no dragons?
Or maybe just no dragons yet?
But this is a different story so I that's probably not even a valid complaint.I was apprehensive about starting this book but now I'm looking forward to reading Test of the Twins to see how it all wraps up.
The authors seemed to have learned from their first trilogy and with this trilogy there are fewer characters to give more of a chance to see them grow and evolve.I admit I have a bit of a dislike for Tasslehoff.
Every once in a while in one of the books he seems to show the unkenderlike trait of fear, but I see that more as character growth than the authors forgetting they gave kenders an immunity to fear.Maybe it is the nostalgia in me considering how the Dragonlance books were a part of what started my reading for fun many years back, but I did enjoy this book and I do enjoy the Legends trilogy more than the Chronicles trilogy.
Continuando con Leyendas de la Dragonlance, en general me ha gustado bastante, dado que Dragonlance es de mis universos favoritos, y por tanto, tengo ganas de terminar esta trilogía.
Aunque le he puesto una buena nota, porque lo he devorado con muchas ganas, la historia me ha atrapado, un buen ritmo y tiene todo lo esperado, sin embargo, lo siento como un libro muy de transición hacia el final de la trilogía, en el que parece que todo va avocado hacia el siguiente libro.
Resumiendo: con ganas de continuar con el último libro de esta trilogía.
the cataclysm has struck and we move to a further future that is still the past! the dwarfgate wars are fought again but this time history can be changedmalevolent evil torments our characters and revelations long past due come to the light. the second part of the trilogy is even more high level than the first and we are dealing with god-like powers but human frailties and emotions are still strong. the book ends with a cataclysmic and dramatic scene that leaves us in doubt what to expect
