https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93978.Sexuality_and_the_Psychology_of_Love
I noticed that I privately referred (in my own thoughts) to Sexuality and the Psychology of Love as "that Shakespeare book." Why Shakespeare?
Freud also lived a sheltered life, in the upper middle-class precincts of Vienna.
Shakespeare and Freud shared the omniscience of innocence.This book comes to life when lesbians appear.
The parents asserted that, in spite of her distinguished name, this lady was nothing but a cocotte...
Книгата разглежда сексуалните отклонения, а не сексуалността като цяло, както заблуждава заглавието.
Може и да е класика и особено ценна за специалистите, но за редовия читател е препоръчително да посегне към нея едва след като децата му са почти готови да имат свои деца.
Иначе рискува тотално да обърка и себе си, и децата.
Според чичко Фройд всичко, каквото един бебок или малко дете прави, от сукането, през акането и отношението към родителите, е все или инфантилен полов живот, или перверзия, или ключ към такава у зрелия човек.
А всички типични и нормални за една майка грижи (кърмене, къпане, гушкане и т.н.), се оказат стабилна подготовка към инверсирани (изпедерастени) синове.
Contains his seminal essay "A Special Type of Choice of Object made by Men" (Contributions to the Psychology of Love, I). A masterpiece, showing Freud's great scientific mind at its best, and probably the key to an understanding of romantic love in men.
good book
A great meaningful book, absolutely Essential for all...
If you're going to read Freud, this is a great place to start.
This was very interesting material. Freud offers many possible hypotheses', which although may not be firmly based in scientific fact, allow one to ponder about. The way that I'm viewing Freud is that it's essential brain-building. It is not the content that matters, so much, but the way it is presented and what you garnish from it.3 stars. Recommended.
This is an interesting collection of various essays, notes, and papers by Freud on the broadly conceived subjects of sexuality and love.
Because the essays are collected up from over 30 years they show a wide range of growth and development in Freud's thought--particularly when read in conjunction with some of Freud's other works that these essays build upon, like Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality.Of course, these essays were written between roughly 1895 and 1931, which means that they are early psychoanalysis.
We therefore need to take these (as with much of Freud's work on sexuality and gender) with a grain of salt.
Some of the essays in this collection were assigned for Ann Ulanov's Seminar on Freud and Jung taught at Union Theological Seminary during the first semester of 1975/76. As usual, I read all of them.
فرویدخوانی یک دوره از زندگی انسان است.اما تمام پیچیدگی های درون انسان در گفتار فروید تمام نمی شه.
