https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/590205.High_Deryni
When it’s discovered that some Deryni have the power of healing, something they thought was lost, everyone is forced to deal with fundamental questions about the origins of good and evil.Some readers may feel like a couple of the critical crises were too easily resolved by talking it out, but I appreciated Kurtz’s acknowledgement that intelligent reasonable people can sometimes work things out using logic and persuasion instead of weapons.
How will the Church deal with the Deryni issue from now on?
3 1/2 starsBut I did have a few issues with it(view spoiler)[I found the Morgan, Richenda romance story line unbelievable.
It just happened way to fast, he helped push her carriage out of a ditch and she fell in love with him.
Kurtz does supply the additional fact later that she is also Deryni and somehow knows Morgan's her soulmate, but that just wasn't enough to convince me.The other thing I had issue with the the Duel Arcane, after all the planning and talk about it I was sorely let down when it was resolved the way it was.
(hide spoiler)]
The final book in the trilogy did what a final book should do. Give the reader a surprise ending, lay out hints for the books to come in the future and conclude the main story arc, while leaving some unresolved. Kurtz' writing style is crisp and focused, a minimal cast of characters acting out in a Middle Ages setting.
The warring armies never actually clash; the Camberian Council is revealed and they're a bunch of squabbling, out-of-touch stuffed shirts; the problem of the rebellious Warin de Grey and his crusade against the Deryni is solved in a couple pages, and all the excommunications just go away as a consequence; major characters use their powers in morally reprehensible ways; and the ending is a deux ex machina with no real dramatic satisfaction.
And with the way Morgan behaves in High Deryni, I'm starting to think the persecutions of the Deryni were entirely reasonable.I'm not just talking about how he casually violates the sanctity of the children's minds at the scene by the waterfall, though that was bad enough.
Re-read of an old favorite series and still enjoyed it as much as the first time. Katherine Kurtz knows how to write epic fantasy tales.
The first half of the book resolves the church's efforts to excommunicate Morgan and Kelson and the anti-Deryni fanatic Warin's efforts to exterminate the mage-race (but reading now, I'm less convinced that the good guy's logical arguments would shake him up).
Then we move on to the Big Bad, the Deryni monarch Wencit of Torenth.
Overall it's good sweeping action with strong characters but the ending twist is so out of the blue it didn't even work for me when I was young and had no standards.
What an utterly satisfying end to the trilogy that started with Deryni Rising and continued in Deryni Checkmate.
My favorite quotation is this one: "Human or Deryni, we share at least one common bond—and it is thicker than blood or oath or any spell that one might bind from the outer darkness.
And he who would side with Darkness can only be our enemy, no matter what his blood or oath or spell."Start with Deryni Rising and you will find an author growing in her skills and a powerful story of choices that are made and the consequences thereof.
I have followed the tales of the Deryni for years, and am hopeful that they won't end here, especially with such a weak ending.
This is the third and last book of this series, but there are still so many unanswered questions.
I am not the least bit disappointed in what was developed in this installment, and truly loved the book despite my poor view on how it was ended.
I would like to see much more as this ending was so anticlimactic, and hope that Mrs. Kurtz plans to share more of the story with us in the very near future.
Great finish, wonderful world building, can't wait to read more in this series. Love the medieval and magic mix, creates a world familiar enough to understand quickly, but different enough to always find a new point of view that draws you in deeper.
“Mine own conscience is more to me than what the world says. “. — Cicero
Would have given it 4 stars but didn't like the ending.
The best of the three.
Not a fantasy fan but I checked out this book to read on vacation. It did keep my interest.
I think she got better at writing these as she went along, because I probably enjoyed this book the best out of the three.
It's not a good sign when you're so bored by the "dramatic" confrontation of two armies midway through a book that you put it down for months and then have to eventually force yourself to finish it.I had such high hopes for this original Deryni series after enjoying the later prequels back when I was in middle school, but now I'm worried that Tween Alex was just kinda dumb.
It certainly seems so by the way some members talk to Kelson, but if so, why would the foreign Deryni king Wencit submit to their authority?
Quite a good read, with a slightly odd (and anticlimactic) twist at the end
Gwynedd is recognizably Britain--more so than what you see usually see in high fantasy, even if there aren't any real historical parallels to the Haldane dynasty--or the Deryni for that matter, magically talented people who are persecuted by the Church.
But more unusually, their "Holy Church" is quite recognizable as the Roman Catholic Church, and the church's beliefs are important to the characters, particularly Monsignor Duncan McLain, a secret Deryni and ordained priest, one of my favorite characters in the series.
It isn't the Church or religion that's meant to be seen as evil, as characters such as Duncan prove.
*Big Sigh* Even written 40 years ago, this is still good fantasy; and as the third book in the series, it is noticeably better.
Bishop Arilan comes clean by admitting his heritage (he literally has no ground to stand on), and Morgan meets the love of his life (NB: there are a couple of (much) later books which expound this further).With a fairly (to my mind) anti-climatic ending, the Camberian Council is revealed, together with some of its members.
This is used to good effect to give the basis of a few later books.
I like epic fantasy.I like complex magic systems.I like complex characters.I like interesting worlds.I like interesting journeys.This series had none of those things.Sure it was fantasy and had magic, but it's vague "magic".
Until the third novel most of the journeys are anti-climactic.I was finally excited about this book.
This third and final one grabbed and held my interest.Finally there was actual strife, epic journeys, intrigue, a dash of romance, some insight into the Deryni, some new compelling characters, actual evil that was threatening.And then after finally - for the first time in the series - successfully building up some tension, the ending completely ruins it.
Anti-climactic and then not even a glimpse of how life plays out after the fact.Overall I found the series to be okay.
There are moments of personal embarrassment - are there really only TWO female characters in this whole book and I never noticed before?
- but I am still very much enjoying the reread.At 40-something instead of something-teen, I have to face up to a few facts, like Morgan can be a bit of a jerk and isn't the dashing hero I remember him being, but the bones of it are still there and I'm enjoying reading about Duncan a whole lot more.
When I get a new computer, or do a rebuild, I always pick the computer's name from a book I'm currently reading.
Commento alla Trilogia: Unico erede di Re Brion, avvelenato dalla maga Charissa durante una battuta di caccia, il Principe Kelson, ormai maggiorenne, si prepara a governare sugli Undici Regni.
Ma Charissa, assetata di potere e vendetta, non gli concede tregua, e perché Kelson la possa affrontare in un duello di magia è necessario che un grande potere osteggiato dalla Chiesa - il potere Deryni - gli venga tramandato dal padre defunto la notte che precede l'incoronazione.
Attraverso un inverosimile susseguirsi di ricerche e avventure dal gusto dark horror, la Kurtz ci porta in un Medioevo alternativo ricostruito con scarsa accuratezza storica, in cui anche la lotta maghi–Chiesa è alquanto scontata e inutile.
Well written but emotionally pointless, High Deryni (1973) completes Katherine Kurtz's original Chronicles of the Deryni.
In this work, the country and the church is torn asunder by civil war over the issue of a half-Deryni upon the throne, and the half-Deryni who serves the throne.
In practice, I just have no idea what sort of novel this was supposed to be, where it was supposed to go, or why it went the way that it went.
If you enjoy what and how Ms. Kurtz writes, I think that you will find this the best of the series.
These comments apply to all 3 books of the original Deryni Trilogy, Deryni Rising, Deryni Checkmate, and High Deryni.
I really enjoyed this series.
I liked Kurtz's writing style, and she did a great job creating and describing the fantasy world of Gwynnedd.
I could see a lot of Welsh influence in the world she created.
Though I did like the series, I never went on to read the other novels by Kurtz about the Deryni or the Land of Gwynnedd.
I'd gotten the message the first time with the original trilogy, I didn't need to read more.
Still, it closed the book arc and the arc for this story line fairly well and still left me wondering how the world would come around to integrating the Deryni in with the rest of society.I have to admit that I find the mixture of history and fantasy a bit disconcerting in this series, as well as the mixing of Christianity.
It lends the series a bit of a hodge podge feel that creates this sense of the series not really being able to decide what it wants to be.Still, I enjoyed the characters and the stories, if not the world so much.
I honestly don't know what to think.
This third installment was much more interesting and engaging than the 2nd, but there are 2 major denouements that just fizzle because of an easy solution that just happens.
First, Warin's complete change of heart because of Morgan's Mind-seeing and demonstration of his healing abilities and the following pardoning and lifting of the excommunication of Duncan and Morgan was just too easy and fast.
An easy way to end the book without any of the good guys dying?
Why not poison Wencit years ago?!?Ah well, a disappointing end to an otherwise very good book.
High Deryni, originally published in 1973, is the third novel in Katherine Kurtz’s DERYNI CHRONICLES.
In the first novel, Deryni Rising, young Prince Kelson, who has inherited some Deryni magic, took his dead father’s throne after fighting an evil sorceress.
In the second novel, Deryni Checkmate, tensions rose after the Church (obviously based on the medieval Catholic Church of our world) excommunicated Alaric Morgan and Duncan McLain, two of Kelson’s relatives and advisors.As the third novel starts, the Church has just split over the Deryni issue.
Traditionally the clergy has viewed any sort of magic as evil, akin to the witchcraft which their Holy Scriptures clearly forbids.
High Deryni starts off a little slow, but after the first 80 pages, the pace of the story picks up and moves along at a fast pace.
I was a little happier this time around as the main part of the story focuses on all three of the main characters, Kelson, Morgan and Duncan.
This story mainly centers around the defeat of the renegade Deryni, and Morgan, Duncan and Kelson being accepted as full Deryni because of the talents that they have shown.
I am not sure if I felt a little gypped, or if the way High Deryni ended was a good thing.
This was the final installment of the Chronicles of Deryni trilogy.
I really did enjoy this collection.
It still amazes me that I had never heard of this series (or author) before.
While it is a fantasy novel, it feels very much tied into historical fiction with magical elements.
Ms. Kurtz's writing is satisfactorily detailed enough to keep the mind engaged.
For some, there certainly may not be enough action, but that is truly not the attraction of her writing.
It is her detail and plot that is simply incredible.She has kept this franchise alive with plenty more installments.
Good play on the Deryni bigotry by both humans and Deryni if the half-Deryni in the story.
Nice unexpected ending that was foretold (if you just listen carefully to the casual talk by the seemingly unimportant characters.
By the way, I didn't say it on my other reviews in this trilogy, but thank god for editors (guess they had them back in the 70's.).
The story could blossomed into several hundred extra pages if it had not been good editor.
You know, the type game of thrones and wheel of time should have had.
Gods, I struggled to finish this... Endless treachery, marching through molasses to get to the inevitable battle--which is the ultimate anticlimax--and damn, the endless piety. Just tedious. Of course, I think there's are several minor cliffhangers left at the end, but do I need to suffer through three more books to find out that everyone finally lives happily ever after? Nah. I think I've done my time here. I'm off to find some sword & sorcery with actual schtuff and sex and romance... and no spectre of a medieval church trying to ruin it for everyone.
