https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197443.Once_a_Mouse_
"Suddenly, he saw a mouse about to be snatched up by a crow." So instead of just thinking about size, the hermit starts thinking about injustice and how bigger things are going around gobbling smaller things and how unfair the world is.
But as he finds himself changing the mouse to bigger and bigger animals, he realizes that there is always going to be something bigger and/or more ferocious and that is just the way of things.
The whole time, he himself has been the bigger and more ferocious thing looming over the mouse.
Although I generally appreciate and enjoy both the narrative and the illustrations of Once a Mouse (the message of pride coming before a fall, and the concept that ungratefulness will often have not so nice consequences), I do find especially the visual depictions of the hermit rather creepy (especially his face).
This is probably very much a personal preference, but every time I look at the hermit, I get shivers down my back (and I don't get those same shivers when I look at the illustrations of the supposedly ferocious tiger).
Revised Review (For Reread):*Original Rating: 4 stars**Rating Now: 5 stars*  Now, I had read Marcia Brown’s retelling of the ancient Indian folktale “Once a Mouse…” many years ago and I had actually written a review for it years ago (some of my thoughts in the original review will be restated in this all new review)! So, I decided to read this book again after all of these years to see if I still felt the same way I did years ago and surprisingly enough, I found out that I liked this book bette
So, I decided to read this book again after all of these years to see if I still felt the same way I did years ago and surprisingly enough, I found out that I liked this book better the second time around than I did the first time (which is so awesome)!The story started off with a wise old hermit thinking about big and little, when suddenly, he sees a mouse being chased by a crow and he ends up saving the mouse from the crow.


This is a wonderful tale from India, about being grateful and remembering your humble beginnings in life and those who have helped you along the way. The illustrations are gorgeous woodcuts, with mostly muted tones and a splash of red here and there. Our girls liked the tale, but I'm not sure they took any deep meaning from it. This book was selected as one of the books for the January 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I enjoyed this book not only because of the beautiful artwork, but because of the moral of the story.
I feel that children who read (or are read) this book will be able to not only identify with the hermit, but also see themselves in the mouse.
For a child's whole life they are cared for and gifted- but what happens when that goes to far?
This has a sweet but matter of fact way of not only showing what happens when we are selfish but allows children to experience the disappointment of the hermit.
Lush, colorful woodcuts make this picture book a visual treat to accompany its excellent message and simple text.
A hermit's meditation is interrupted by a mouse whose life is threatened by a crow.
He saves the mouse and befriends it, and even uses magic to change it into a cat, a dog, and a tiger as other animals frighten it.
Eventually, the mouse becomes too arrogant and even plans to attack the hermit who sends him back to his original form.
That foolish mouse should have quit while he was ahead.
He had found a good life, but forgot where he came from.
The woodcut illustrations here are absolutely marvelous, full of colorful and imaginative detail. The story is based upon an ancient Indian tale, about a meditative hermit who befriends a lowly mouse by changing him into a mighty tiger. The mouse/tiger is an ungrateful pet however and is returned to his fate as a mouse and made to fend for himself once more. What really sets this book above others is Marcia Brown's ingenious and lovely woodcut pictures which are a delight to look at. Quite a splendid picture book, well deserving of the Caldecott Medal.
I really did enjoy the main message of this story. The illustrations were also very unique. However, I would say that this story would be too "dull" for a preschool classroom. There are elements that I think a preschool classroom may find amusing, such as the main character turning the mouse into many different animals. However, I believe elementary students would appreciate this book more than preschoolers. While reading this story out loud I would emphasize the type of animals the hermit was turning the mouse into and why he chose those specific animals.
Once a Mouse is the story about a hermit who decides to help out a mouse who is getting ready to be attacked.
This is a great fable because it teaches some very valuable lessons about not being boastful and also being grateful for what others do to help you out.
Obviously, the images in this book are going to be great since it is a Caldecott winner, but when you first look at them, you may not think they are all that.
It would be a great way for the teacher to understand if the students are comprehending the story and get the meaning of the lesson at the same time.
It begins with a hermit who is thinking about big and little when he meets a mouse that is in danger of being snatched up by a crow.
Throughout the narrative, the hermit continuously saves the defenseless, humble mouse by using magic to turn him into bigger animals, until he is a large, proud tiger who flaunts his prowess to the other animals of the forest.
The hermit reads the tiger’s mind and promptly changes the tiger back to the mouse he originally was and banishes him for his hubris.
The mouse is never seen again, while the hermit goes back to thinking about big and little, which is exactly what the reader is left to consider.
Considering the quality of Marcia Brown's artwork, I'm really not at all surprised that this book won the 1962 Caldecott Medal.Once a Mouse...tells the cautionary fable of a tiny, frightened mouse who comes across a philosopher/magician hermit pondering thoughts of big and little, while sitting in the forest.
Pride overtakes the newly-morphed tiger, however, and it forgets that were it not for the grace of the hermit, it would still be an endangered mouse.
I do believe that a thoughtful read of the book, however, will give readers something to consider for a while.
Fate brings to him a small mouse about to be devoured by a crow.
Then, a cat creeps up to consume the mouse, and the hermit magically changed the mouse into a larger cat.
Now a cat, he is vulnerable to dogs who howl and scare.
And, another morphing occurs when the cat is changed to a large dog and then a large tiger.
Now, the hermit changes the tiger back into a mouse who is stalked by a mighty tiger.A story of a man who cared to help and the recipient who forgot his beginnings, this is indeed a lovely tale.
The tiger was ungrateful so the man turned him back into a mouse and ended the book with thinking about big and little.
Grade level: K-4Appropriate classroom use: This could be viewed as a lesson to be grateful for the skin you're in.
I don't think kindergartners would like this book.
Small group use: Identifying the animals and matching the letter such as T goes to Tiger, and M for Mouse.
Whole class use: I don't think this would be appropriate to read aloud.
This book talks about how the tiger has thoughts of killing.
The book is about a hermit that saved a mouse from a crow, and every time another animal came to threaten the mouse, the hermit changed the mouse into a mightier animal until he was the mightiest tiger.I like the moral of the story and the illustrations fit the story well.
The story itself had several morals; remember where you came from, be grateful for everything that is given to you, and the difference big and little can make.
My preference in children’s illustrations is more colors and a little brighter, but for this book I think the illustrations complimented the story.
A wonderful fable from ancient India about a mouse who got too big for his britches.
The mouse is transformed by a hermit who saves him from a crow.
Each time he is transformed into a bigger animal as predators keep coming after him.
Finally the mouse becomes a tiger and is too proud and ungrateful.
The hermit offends and humiliates the tiger who then threatens to kill him.
The hermit turns him back into a mouse and continues meditating on big and small.
This is a wonderful conversation starter for parents and children on humility, pride, grateful ness, compassion, bullies, etc.
It’s hard to believe this book is really illustrated with woodcuts.
The drawings look almost like they were stenciled onto the page!
I like that the story is framed by the hermit thinking about big and little, but that the author never comes right out to tell us the message of the story.
I think my favorite image is the close-up of the hermit banishing the tiger back to the forest to turn back into a mouse.
It’s one of the simplest images in the entire book, but also the most powerful and emotional.
3.5 - I think I liked this more than Julia.
I was intrigued that it comes from an Indian folklore and just the fact that it's different than any other childrens books we've seen so far apealled to me.
A hermit, after seeing a little mouse in danger of being killed, uses magic to turn him into a strong tiger.
After being a tiger for awhile this started to go to his head and he forgot that he once used to be a tiny little mouse.
The hermit sends the tiger out of the forest and the story ends suddenly.
I would have liked the ending to have been a little more subtle.
The story of a man who is contemplating big and little, when he sees a mouse almost get eaten by a crow.
He saves the mouse, and then to continue protecting it, he keeps changing it into different animals, until it ends up as a tiger.
Once the mouse is a tiger, however, he forgets all the good that had been done for him and becomes arrogant.
The old man decides to change him back into a mouse again.One of the things that I liked most about this simple little story, was how each page left you in suspense of what would happen next.
I was quite impressed with the illustrations in this fable...the illustrations were cut in wood. The animals, particularly the tiger and the cat, were very expressive and did a wonderful job of conveying emotion. An older man, called the hermit, sees a mouse in trouble and rescues it. Then he uses magic to Change the mouse into a cat, a dog and then a tiger. But despite the man's help and protection, the tiger becomes quite proud and ungrateful. Lesson taught to be grateful.
The illustrations for this book were pretty cool, I really liked the stylized pictures. As far as the story is concerned though, I did not care for it. The story basically went around in a big loop and ended right where it started, with nothing accomplished. I was not impressed at all, you can definitely skip this book.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
Should be required reading not just for children, but for adults as well. An old, wise man takes pity on a mouse and changes him into a bigger and bigger creature until it is a tiger, and the most powerful animal in the forest. But the creature quickly forgets its humble roots and lords over its status with the other animals. The wise man reduces it to a mouse again. My deepest respects for the wood cutting artist – that is NOT easy to do, especially with so many colors.
This is an interesting Indian fable about the dangers of pride. The writing is clear and straight-forward, and short enough to share with pre-school or early elementary children. The woodcuts themselves are lovely and energetic, but I was not impressed by the dull reds and ambers that were selected for the pictures.
1962 Caldecott Winner. Favorite Illustration: The first page with the hermit sitting under the tree.I liked this story about humility and gratitude, but it fell just a little flat for me. I did really like the detail in the wood cut illustration, though, and I felt that they supported the origin of the story well.
Illustrated by the author using woodcuts and watercolor. Winner of the 1962 Caldecott Medal. I liked the story and the illustrations but what I really liked was the rhythm created by the illustration and page breaks. It was "natural" how the book was meant to be read. Additionally, the illustrations were quite simple but were able to portray emotion very well.
The story and the illustrations are perfect for one another. A fun story that can easily grow with the child. For more, and suggestions for further exploration:http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/12/fiv...
I liked the wood cut illustrations, but the story didn't strike a chord with me.
This is a fable from India. It has spectacular pictures, though I'm not sure all kids would like them. However, it did win the Caldecott medal for them.
Caldecott Winner 1962
