https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7619.The_Time_Quartet_Box_Set
These books make me sad to know what kids are reading today.
These stories (A Swiftly Tilting Planet, which is my favorite, in particular) are largely responsible for the shaping of my imagination as far as time-travel, space, and the interplay between parts of history is concerned.
I also love how L'Engle weaves significant matters of faith into each story, and as a kid this definitely helped me understand that you didn't have to exclude God/faith from Fantasy/Sci-Fi. The only real complaint I have is that they all end rather abruptly, A Wrinkle in Time especially.
This is by all accounts from other readers a fine juvenile read.
i found it when my children were already grown...adults...on their own, but finding I had enjoyed other "youth reads" I picked it up anyway.
It's reader friendly and I think it will stretch and involve younger readers well.
If you have younger readers this is one you should try.
As a book that holds on over for older readers I don't think it works as well, though if you read it young and loved it that might be another story.I really couldn't get involved in the story, but I wish I'd found itr when my kids were young enough to have it read to them.
The creatures are less imaginative, more standard fantasy, and Charles Wallace appears to have forgotten what happened in previous books.I noted the similarity between A Wrinkle in Time and Star Maker, and here the similarity comes from a different direction: this is a series of travels through time, some real and some “projections”, which are mostly observational.
On rereading, I discovered that I had definitely forgotten the way Christian symbols and metaphors kind of beat you over the head in this book.
It and A Wind in the Door (which, like the other three books in this omnibus, I had never read before), could definitely benefit from some subtlety.
I love the way the time travel elements are used, and the common threads among the generations Charles Wallace visits and their ties to mythology are handled really well.
Though A Wrinkle in Time is my favorite of these, all the books in the series were very well done, and kept me interested throuought.Apparently I have a love for books written for the younger set - teenagers. Seems that many of the authors just seem to work harder in that genre to produce a good book that also has literary merit. Must be all those "newberry-like" medals they're all striving for, but whatever it is, these fit.If you've never read them, you've missed out.
Re-read A Wrinkle in Time. 4 stars this time around.
Having finally finished reading this series, I now sit here utterly dumfounded as to how people can straight-facedly refer to them as classics.
The first book in the series, A WRINKLE IN TIME, I thought was sort of OK, but that was because I expected the events of the story to be continued and expounded upon in the next book.
Also, the fourth book in the series reminded me a lot of TWILIGHT for some reason.
More specifically, TWILIGHT mixed together with the story of Noah's flood.
As with the third book in the series, I couldn't even bring myself to finish it.
I have finally finished the series that many kids in this country grew up on.
For actual reviews, see each book individually on my bookshelf.I will say this though.
There are so many wonderful Christian truths in these books, and characters that are real.
They actually struggle, or get frusterated, or chose sin because it's easy, and deny the truth because it's not logical.
She just interweaves Christian theology so effortlessly into her stories that you walk away with very profound truth.
I won't let my kids make the same mistake I did by not reading these books until later in life.
The very first book that I read in my teen years that was fantasy was "A Wrinkle in Time".
I did not know that it is a quartet of her books that starts out with "A Wrinkle in Time" and carries the same characters through the next three stories.
I hope that I won't be disappointed because what one likes in there youth may change in adulthood.
"A Wrinkle in Time" was ok but "A Wind in the Door" was horrendous.
I like it and it saved the whole book.
It was about the twins going back in time.
Reading the first book in the series, A Wrinkle in Time, completely transported me back to middle school when I first discovered the delightful writing of L'Engle.
(Books 3 and 4 are so convoluted that I don't feel like I can talk about them in detail other than to say they are out there.) Part of me wishes that I had stopped reading at A Wrinkle in Time (as I had done for so many years) so as to not shatter the illusion of what this series meant to me but part of the reason I started this blog was to explore new books and to give as honest a review as possible.
I read it back in elementary school, and remembered it was one of the greats.
Also, I got the impression that Ms. L'Engle got to 120 pages and suddenly realized she was under some contract to write no more than 132 pages, so rushed the ending.
Don't get me wrong, I didn't think it was terrible, just not nearly as great as I remembered.The other books, however, were great sequels, maintaining the storyline, even though there's little need of prior knowledge.
The quality of writing is consistent, and the tales are generally well told, although the last's ("Many Waters") ending is also rushed.
Madeleine L'Engle is one of my all time favorite authors. Both her characters and storylines are thoughtful, well written and intriguing. She writes books that I can read again and again. These particular novels are some of my absolute favorites and I have enjoyed them both as a written books and as an audios.
a nice series to read
Most favorite books of all-time right here, with the last book being my favorite. I’ve read these umpteen times, and every time it gets better. 😍🥰
Wonderful books for any age that will give your imagination something to grow on. Great books to discuss as well.
Reread Many Waters 1/16/2010 (and many times before)Reread A Wrinkle in Time 2/13/2010Reread A Wind in the Door 2/22/2010Reread A Swiftly Tilting Planet 5/10/2014: I always remembered this as my favorite of Meg and Charles Wallace's stories (though Many Waters was probably my favorite of the Quartet).
(Yep, moreso than the one set in a Bible story!) Rereading this now, though… first thoughts were, proudly, "Long before 'Cloud Atlas', there was this!" But as I got closer to the end, certain things started to unnerve me.
But I'm a bit unnerved by -- [SPOILER ALERTS STARTING HERE]-- by the battle between "good" and "evil" coming down to a kind of eugenics.
It's one of my all time favorites, but I feel like the series slowly deteriorated from there.
Quite frankly, I fell asleep reading a Swiftly Tilting Planet.
I missed the interactions between Meg and Calvin in the last 2 books.
They were my favorites.
And it was weird to jump from being in school to being married and pregnant.
My friend didn't even want to read the last 2 books when I told her that Meg was married and pregnant in A Swiftly Tilting Planet.
It was too much of a jump for me.
I was in 5th grade and hated reading, but then we had the choice of reading either A Wrinkle in Time or the Lion, Witch and the Wardrobe.
Out of 3 classes of students reading only 5 of us chose Wrinkle because we were told it was hard to read.
Apparently they were quite convincing, which makes me think they didn't like the book.
I really liked the book.
I also really liked the rest of the series, although some were a little odd.
Anyhow, I thought I'd share a little background about the book that sparked my love for reading.
So I just finished reading this series for the first time and loved it.
In case you're wondering, the order is: A Wrinkle in Time; A Wind in the Door; Many Waters; and A Swiftly Tilting Planet.
I'd be hard-pressed to pick a favourite, but I really enjoyed A Swiftly Tilting Planet.
I really enjoyed the series because it's sci-fi, and fantasy, and clever and amusing.
I would highly recommend this series.From A Wrinkle in Time: I liked the part where Meg tried to explain light and dark to someone who has never seen.
Favourite characters: Aunt Beast and Calvin O'Keefe.
But mostly Aunt Beast.
I do not even remember the first time I read A Wrinkle in Time, but years after that first reading, I found a copy in a used bookstore and fell in love all over again.
Today I own the box set as well as a few other books by L'Engle and recommend them to people at every opportunity.
I was very sad when L'Engle died, for the world lost a literary genius with incredible talent and vision.
Don't let the placement of these books in the children's section fool you...children and adults alike can benefit from reading the entire quartet.[image error]
Madeleine L'Engle used to be my favorite author until I realized she had passed away before I could send her a letter telling her how much I loved her. She really is (as said on the box) a "master of fantasy". All four of these books (especially A Wrinkle in Time and Many Waters) are genius in the way they are set up, exhibited, and closed. I saw a Ring of Endless light on the Disney channel (yeah, I used to watch those every time a new one came on) and I loved it. She's a lovely writer.
I love these books!
My Dad bought me the first book, A Wrinkle in Time, when I was a young girl.
I quickly devoured it and the subsequent follow-ups.
I have reread them as an adult as well and enjoyed them just as much as when I was a child.
The characters in the books make you feel like you don't have to be perfect or fit the same mold as everyone else to make a difference.
L'Engle's books are unique , but very enjoyable for both children and adults.
Madeline L'Engle is possibly one of the most thoroughly brilliant people ever to turn hand to novel-writing. The depth, scope, and passion in each of her books is thrilling; her characters are not only believable, but the sort who become your friends. I frequently find myself coming back to these books just to spend more time with Meg, Charles Wallace, and Calvin. The science that weaves its way through these gems of literary perfection just heightens their believability and depth. Nobody can make me cry quite like Madeline L'Engle.
I loved Wrinkle when i was a kid.
In reference to L'Engle's overtly Christian themes, upon rereading, i did not find them overwhelming.
Instead i found them more as guild lines to deducing the your own spiritual interpretation, which i did and found it to be very enlightening.
I felt the same about A Wind in the Door, and even enjoyed it more so than Wrinkle.
A Swiftly Tilting Planet was just as good as the second, I only wish there were more about these characters.
I plan on reading Many Waters, even though its about the twins as apposed to the character base i love.
Going back and re-reading these four novels for the first time since I read them to my children when they were young was an exercise of pure joy. In the intervening years I had forgotten what a beautiful prose writer L'Engle was. Appropriate for the subject matter, the language she employs is indeed touched with the music of the spheres and reading her descriptions of these cosmic adventures is nothing short of magical for the reader and what grand adventures they are.
"Wrinkle" is the most famous, and it certainly grabbed me as a kid--I can remember struggling through at least one hellish day of school, waiting to get home and find out what happened next. But the one I reread most often is "Planet," and I really couldn't say why. The themes in all the books of the series are similar--like Dumbledore, L'Engle believes firmly in the awesome and transformative power of love...Maybe I just really dug the time travel.
One of my ALL time favorite series from childhood. I can distinctly remember the summer I discovered this series & devoured all 4 books as rapidly as I could. It really was my introduction to the sci-fi genre, which to this day is not really my thing, but these books, they made it accesible and interesting and fun to my youthful & spongy mind. Would love to re-read these with my children. They are certainly too young now being only 5 & 3, so perhaps I will have to indulge sooner...
in 11th grade my life changed. i went vegan, then got really preachy with it, then lost friends, missed my partner (long distance relationship), got depressed, then ignored everyone and read like 10 l'engle books in a row all day long in school and at home. l'engle is great for escaping. plus the themes in her Time series are beautiful and were part of shaping my philosophy and worldview at the time.
I read "A Wrinkle In Time" as a library clerk in the children's department when it first came out and loved it. Bought this edition for my grandson and monopolized his book when I visited his home a month after sending it to him. Loved every minute. I love Science Fiction and this is excellent for the genre. I am intrigued by the fourth book, Many Waters, and its apocryphal references. Interesting interpretation.
