https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112537.Rendezvous_with_Rama
(Such as, for example, a large body of water, or featureless buildings on an island?It's an interesting story, but probably *mostly* interesting for people interested in the genuine science of interstellar/interplanetary travel.For example, if you enjoyed The Martian, you have a good chance of liking this book.
By which I mean to say that when a problem arises in the story, the resolution comes very soon afterwards.
The follow-up book severely damaged my opinion of this book to the point where I don't know if I would reccomend it any more.So if you were considering reading this book based on my review, you might want to read this first in order to get the whole story...
I've been trying to read more classic sci-fi and my experience has been very hit and miss so far... But this was a very interesting take on the whole "first contact with aliens"!I do wish there was a bit more but it seems like I always do. Nevertheless the ending was pretty satisfying, would recommend!
Mysterious and engaging, classic science fiction.I first read this back in high school, we'll just say a LONG time ago.
Since then the concepts, ideas and themes surrounding this archetypal work of science fiction have been a huge influence on works in this genre.
The first works that I think of that was influenced by RWR is John Varley's excellent Titan series, first coming out in 1979.
Clarke deservedly won the SF triple crown for this work – Hugo, Nebula and John W.
It should be on a short list of best SF ever.Clarke’s Rama has all of what’s best in a SF story: future science, intrepid explorers, contact with aliens, space, rockets, and mystery.
Ladies, have you ever heard the advice that the more you cover up, the sexier you are?
Forgo the plunging neckline for the small keyhole.
Let the boys use their imagination.
Hint, but don’t show.
Clarke evidently had.
He dressed this book in a turtleneck, elbow-length gloves, trousers, work boots, and one of those hats with ear flaps.
There is barely any flesh showing.
But the book stops the courtship at the flirting stage.
While this was a nice departure from books nowadays that reveal everything, it was ultimately unsatisfying.
Clarke withheld too much for me to really enjoy the book.
ClarkeRendezvous with Rama is a science fiction novel by British writer Arthur C.
The novel won both the Hugo and Nebula awards upon its release, and is regarded as one of the cornerstones in Clarke's bibliography.
کلارک؛ مترجم: هرمز حبیبی اصفهانی؛ تهران نشر نقطه، 1374، در 268 ص، شابک: ایکس - 964554825ادامه این داستان با عنوان «راما 2» یا «ادامه میعاد با راما» با ترجمه ناصر بلیغ در نشر نقطه در سال 1375 در 494 ص به چاپ رسیده و به زیور طبع آراسته شده است شابک: 964-5548-27-6میعاد با راما، راما 2، باغ راما و راز راما، مجموعه‌ ای چهار جلدی از آثار آرتور سی.
What will humanity discover after its Rendezvous with Rama?Years ago, I decided I needed to read more hard science fiction.
Well, the concepts behind Rendezvous with Rama do outweigh the story but I found it far superior to Ringworld, a much more enjoyable reading experience.
As near as I can tell, Rendezvous with Rama is the first Big Dumb Object (or Megastructure, if you prefer) science fiction novel.
Now that I've read it, I respect its place in the hard science fiction pantheon but the sense of wonder doesn't make up for its shortcomings so a three is as high as I can give it.
This is the story about the ship's crew exploring dead alien derelict and the reaction of the rest of the humans to their findings.
It is about incomprehensible wonders of alien technology - just hasty brief glimpses of it.This sense of wonder present through the whole book and that is the reason for the high rating.
His descriptions are brief enough to never become boring, yet they always give you good picture of what the explorers see.
My advice to both of these guys: read this book and learn.
Reading the descriptions of the book 2 and its reviews I became convinced that I am not interested to continue the series.
There was just enough detail to go with the all the mystery behind the alien ship hurtling through the solar system to make Arthur C.
Clarke’s Rendezvous with Rama an engaging and thought provoking read!
I do think there is a sense of wonder about the possibilities contained in the mysterious ship.
The book whets your appetite to get to the bottom of some of the mysteries contained on the Raman spacecraft and maybe even meet some actual Ramans, but (given that the ship has a limited amount of time in the solar system), there are lots of unanswered questions.
This makes Rendezvous with Rama an engaging read!
Gateway totally confounded my expectation because while it features a BDO the focus of the book is on the impact of this object on the life of the protagonist.
However I am not sure this is a weakness of Clarke's writing because his books are generally not very long and by not allocating many pages on developing the characters he is able to do a lot of world building, describing the minutiae and implications of his settings, and a spring a few surprises on his readers from his plotting.
For all his talent, Clarke wasn't a wordsmith (heck, even Asimov could write better!) Instead, simply glory in one of the cleverest conceits you will ever read - an encounter with an alien civilisation in which the aliens are absent and there is no convenient "universal translator" to explain things.
Slowly you can begin to piece things together, keeping maybe one step ahead of the astronauts, but you become aware that trying to understand Raman culture is like trying to appreciate the Sistene Chapel ceiling without ever having read the Bible - you could create an explanation, but it would be utterly and magnificently wrong.All I ask is that you don't make the mistake of going on and reading the pointless sequels.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Workmanlike Prose: "Rendezvous with Rama" by Arthur C.
I'm glad things have moved on since, but I'd still happily sit and read a book so single-mindedly in its purpose like this one.
However, people who like literature don't just read the so-called greats.
Clarke certainly wrote some seminal works of SF, but he probably read many obscure works too, some of which may have influenced him.
Readers don't just read the big name writers, but have a much bigger interest in the genre.
This book was SO BORING.
And the men they're distracting are some of the flattest men I've ever read about so it's kind of a stretch for me to believe anyone would want to sleep with them.The plot was also pretty weak, I never felt much of an urge to continue finding out what was going to happen.
On top of that, there is absolutely zero payoff for all that boring ass build up.I struggled through this book at the recommendation of a friend.
I've read that the next books are much better & that Clarke had a co-writer with him.
it is often seen as a lazy way to create a world, telling not showing, an author so in love with something they've built that they just want to describe instead of allowing the reader to slowly experience.
i think this is because with good world-building, i feel like i am looking at a kind of work of art created by the author - a rather nerdy work of art, sure - but still something that a person has put a lot of thought, energy, and passion into.
This reread is part of a project to revisit the classics I read in my youth, now with my pesky adult brain in tow.Rendezvous with Rama is pretty much the prototype for what people complain about when they say "they don't make 'em like they used to." It is also, by consequence, exactly what others are criticizing when they say "they shouldn't make 'em like that anymore." It is essentially a hard sci-fi narrative centered around scientific discovery and methodical problem solving by its hyper-competent hero(es).
And also, there are plenty of authors who still do it that way (have you read Neal Stephenson?)As a time capsule work, though, Rama is almost peerless in its execution, and definitely worth the read, even if our modernized adult brains have to let a few things slide to make it work.
This is one of my all-time favorite science fiction novels. Arthur C. Clarke's 1973 classic made a clean sweep of the genre's awards, winning the Campbell, Hugo, Jupiter, and Nebula awards. The concept of the story is brilliant. The planet sized, spinning, cylindrical world of Rama is the star of the story, featuring a sea that circles the inside of the cylinder. The visuals created by Clarke were stunning. What will mankind make of this interstellar traveling alien world? I loved it, couldn't put it down.
The stars will never again be the same to us.” I remember promising to read more /classic/ SciFi books last 2014 and so far I've failed.
I like books that are heavy on the world building and character development, unfortunately this novel only had the world building.
I didn't even expect to read the next novel right away because I have a pile of books waiting already, but I can't prolong it anymore.
It's weird how I didn't really expect an alien encounter or a space battle in this novel.
Maybe hardcore SciFi novels have less character development?
It feels like Clarke had the basic plot mapped out, but invented the rest as he went.The basic plot is that a big-ass mystery space ship shows up and humanity has to figure out why and what to do with it.
The book doesn't completely resolve; it's the first of a series, and Clarke wants you to read the rest of them too.Clarke was known as one of the "Big Three" science fiction writers of the mid-to-late 20th century, along with Isaac Asimov and Robert Heinlein.
Clarke seems like maybe the best pure storyteller of them, and Rendezvous With Rama is a highly entertaining book.
5.0 stars. One of the best first contact novels ever. The ability of Clarke to bring a high level of detail regarding the mechanics of the expedition without having the story get bogged down is a rare thing. This novel succeeds brilliantly. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction NovelWinner: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction NovelWinner: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction NovelWinner: (tie) John W. Campbell Award for Best Science Fiction NovelWinner: British Science Fiction Award for Best Novel
I've read this book when I wasn't even 20 and would love to re-read sometime. I know hardcore sci-fi books are not too much fun to read, especially if they are in the space (My eyes bled while I read 2001: A Space Odyssey) but I remember really enjoying parts of this book, although overall finding it very long.
Fascinating, mysterious, and imbued with a rare and spectacular sense of wonder. And happily concise, intelligent, and even occasionally funny. This was my first Arthur C. Clarke novel and it will definitely not be my last.
People often wonder why things like "poetic diction" came about, and this book answers the question rather nicely: science-y, exact writing doesn't make for very good narration.I could have looked past the style issues had the plot or the characters had been (in any sense of the word) strong, but unfortunately they were worse.
So I'm left with the feeling of having read 250 pages of a story about robots "exploring" a world where very little happens that is written by a robot.
Written in the 70's, but the science wasn't painfully outdated, except he hadn't foreseen just how small and complicated our computers would become even in a few years.
(I frowned a little when one of the characters had two wives--but a couple chapters later a woman had multiple husbands, so no complaints.) In a nutshell, a newly discovered comet, Rama, turns out to be an enormous spaceship headed for the sun.
We scramble to intercept it, but the astronauts have only a few weeks before Rama will come too close to the sun and they'll have to head back home.
Much as I enjoyed the first Rama book, the second was just plain awful.
Clarke was into that ancient aliens stuff, so I think we would get along smashingly for that reason alone.But then it's like Clarke didn't want to blow his wad too much too soon, so he kept pulling away from the fun stuff and continued with his dry, rather uninteresting, very scientific text and I never felt I made another connection with the story again.Because I like color.
Ovu knjigu bi volio da sam pročitao kad sam bio mlađi , jer mislim da bi mi se onda još više dopao .Meni se dopao lagani Klarkov stil , bez previše nepotrebnih opisa , dovoljno da shvatimo neke stvari . Jednostavna priča o stranom objektu koji se kreće kroz sunčani sistem ,priča o drugačijem prvom susretu koji živi od misteriozne i napete atmosfere da saznamo sta je to u odlično izmišljenoj RAMI .Zaista fascinatni opisi!4*

I suppose that's a spoiler in and of itself, but without going too far over the line, I love how much remains a mystery.
The professional team that investigate Rama have no clues, they have to make theories and guesses as they go along, and things happen that they don't understand and have to interpret on-the-fly.
As I read "Rama" I had the feeling that I was reading an account of an encounter as I would imagine it happening.
Some things we discover and understand (or think we do), some things we don't, and the all-important aspect is that Clarke leaves some mysteries intact.
Rendezvous with Rama is one of those strange cases (which seem to happen to me a lot), where I remember more about my life while I was reading a book than the about the book itself.I remember liking it, and I have vague recollections of the Raman robot beings and the weirdness of Rama's interior, but that's about all I can conjure from the book.But everything surrounding my reading of the book is vivid.I was on my way to Stratford, Ontario to see The Three Musketeers, Hamlet, The Importance of Being Ernest and Titus Andronicus at the Shakespeare festival, and I decided to take a detour to visit my cousin.
On the other hand, I found it banal and even more problematic, sexist in his depiction of the characters and his projections about futuristic culture.Clarke is always best when pondering philosophy and the nature of mankind.
However in that book the characters act violently immediately in response to everything they don't understand.
Rama seemed to be Clarke's answer to that.
Rama also seems like a book that had significant influence in The Martian.
His heart isn't into it) the novel was sexist both in its characterization of women and in its take on futuristic culture.
They feel a lot like the 'biots' of Rama -- bland constructs to serve a single purpose).
And it does a poor job describing things (it tells us measurements and academic details, but I still don't have a clear idea what many things look like.) Basically the writing is a sterile, scientific view of a phenomenon.But all this is easy to forgive.
And ironically, while there is almost little conflict (the Helian rocket seemed like a poor attempt to ratcheted up the tension; this side-plot could be cut out completely, and the story wouldn't change), there is an immense intrigue built into the mystery of Rama.
Sa jedne strane vrlo jednostavna postavka: nepoznati objekat se kreće kroz sunčani sistem i mi hitamo da ga ispitamo pre nego šo odmagli dalje, a sa druge strane imamo odličan hard SF roman koji odlično prikazuje kakva bi mogla biti budućnost kroz 100 do 200 godina.
Znači kolko se bavi istraživanjem (mogućih) vanzemaljaca tolko se bavi istraživanjem ljudi i uticaja svega ovoga na ljude i njihove reakcije na sve to.Što se pisanja tiče ovo je gosn.
Artur iz najboljeg perioda kada je sve lepo pisao bez previše opisivanja, taman dovoljno da zagolica maštu.
kada je knjiga dobra nemam inspiraciju za pisanje :P Tako da ako niste čitali odma nabavite i bacite se na čitanje.
