https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1235257.Please_Don_t_Eat_the_Daisies
By midnight, when I was ready to sob with fatigue, it was nothing for Mother to announce cheerfully, 'Well, what do you say we clean out the garage?' She was a little disconcerted, though, when she discovered she wasn't able to pick up a television set, and I heard her moaning softly, 'Jean, I'm afraid I'm beginning to slow down.' I don't know whether it's true, but we can hope."I also learned a new word: "matutinal." Those of you who know what it means (or find out) will probably understand why I've never so much as heard of it before.
I didn't care for her rewriting of stories in different styles, although the one with Lolita and Humbert Humbert and the relationship counselor came off well.I often can't remember which of Kerr's works a particular essay is in.
I also have The Snake Has All The Lines and Penny Candy, but I know there's at least one other (Penny Candy).The individual chapters all have titles, but in this case I would definitely advise reading the Introduction first (many people skip introductions altogether, and others read them last) This one begins: "I had the feeling all along that this book should have an Introduction, because it wasn't going to have an Index, and it ought to have SOMETHING".
Jean Kerr is a woman ahead of her time! A lot of things that she said almost 5 decades ago still hold tre nowadays. I love her self-depreciating sense of humor. Her rants about her kids kind of made me want to have kids just so I can make fun of them myself. Well, not exactly, but that's to say how much I want to relate myself to her.
I loved this book. It's been a while since I read it; I loaned someone my copy two years ago and never got it back. From what I remember, a couple of the essays were less funny than the rest, but the bulk was absolutely hilarious. Recommended for everyone.
That left me with little option but to search my grandparents' home for English books.
Please Don't Eat the Daisies was in that class as were his back issues of The Reader's Digest.Being a little kid still tied to home and mother probably helped me appreciate a lot of Kerr's domestic humor.
Later, fortunately, I found a English language section of the local library which had Orwell and a paperback store which had books for tourists, so the quality of my reading improved over the summer.
I read this collection for the first time when I was in high school, and have read it over and over as the years passed. Jean Kerr had a dry wit and I loved her descriptions of life with four children, pets, New York theater, and an old enormous money pit of a home. Some of the material is now dated, but still, in my opinion, enjoyable. Obviously, I'm not the only one who liked it. Decades ago a movie starring Doris Day and David Niven was filmed (I enjoyed that, too!) loosely based on Ms. Kerr's book.
So I found this gem after watching the Doris Day movie with the same title and just happened upon the book in the stacks. Let me tell you how much I love Jean Kerr's perspective and humour. She is hilarious! If you are looking for something light and funny to read this here is the book for you. It is a collection of short essays about everything from parenting to diets, dogs that hate her, decorating her new house, to being married to a theatre critic and being a writer herself.
My copy of this book belonged to my granny, and it was among her favorites. Reading it was like having her read it to me. The author's style is so like my granny's that it was pure joy. This was the kind of book I could take with me to appointments and read a bit at a time without too much concentration.
For some reason this just wasn't as humorous as I'd expected it to be. It read a bit dated and I would sometimes "slip away" while reading and realized at the end there were very few stories where I felt truly "connected." It was as if the only time I was truly absorbed was when I had had similar experiences.
This is definitely at the top of all of my book lists. It's just a series of short essays about the life of the mother of a family of four. But it looks at the funny side of life. Jean Kerr recognizes the parts of life that overwhelm us all and shows you that there's something to laughing through life. You don't ever think to tell your kids "Please don't eat the daisies"
This was fun. Her stories have a clever bite to them. I preferred the ones that were more like personal anecdotes over the fictitious ones.
I don't know which books she may have been referring to, but it could have been published in the New Yorker in the past year, and it would suit.
Some of the pieces mention the children, and the tone is quite similar to Shirley Jackson's Life Among the Savages / Raising Demons, which I also love.Let me just add that if she were alive now, her blog would be very popular.***You know, there's nothing quite as meta and amusing as being interrupted while reading an essay about the child who won't go to be (and stay there)by a child who won't go to bed (and stay there).
It's based on Kerr's life with her husband - a college professor by day and a play critic by night; herself - a playwright; and their 4 children - all boys, 2 of which are twins.
"In the beginning, we made the usual mistake of looking at houses we could afford." Or, her own children.
"....we had been looking for a larger house, and we knew what we wanted.
I wanted a house that would have four bedrooms for the boys, all of them located some distance from the living room - say in the next county somewhere." Even tho this book was published in 1957, it's as timely today as it was then.
Like Erma Bombeck after her, Jean Kerr has a humorous cynicism toward motherhood and life.
This is a collection of her articles from the 1950s, and it was interesting to contrast this with the history of Betty Crocker I read a while ago: the domesticity women related to and laughed at vs.
the domesticity they felt they were supposed to have.
And I remembered that June Cleaver really was a fictional character.
Granted, Kerr wasn't the typical suburban housewife.
I used to read Jean Kerr's books way back in the 60's and enjoyed them immensely!
I picked up this book because I had just seen Doris Day's "Please Don't Eat the Daisies" (which is really one of my favorites.
There were some chapters in this book that actually put me to sleep but, her ones about her family, tales of the kids was comical and fun.
You can actually skip the chapters you don't like in this book and not miss any of the intelligence of Jean Kerr.
Then I was just disappointed because the movie and the book are really nothing alike and the movie is better!

I read this first when I was about 12, I guess.
It was in that phase when I had finished every kid's book I could find (Nancy Drew, Hardy Boys, Tom Swift, Jr., Alcott, Stevenson, Dr. Doolittle, etc.) and somehow leaped up to "adult" books with no transition...I don't remember any YA books from my youth, jaded as it was.
She is funny, yes, but in a kind of bland way.
Of course, this feeling may be a result of re-reading Shirley Jackson's memoirs in the same vein fairly recently.
This was just okay; kind of dated and a little too sweet for me now.
Enjoyed this super fast read from 1957.
Loved the Doris Day movie and the tv show too.
I had recently seen a little blurb in the book section of the Sunday New York Times on the author Jean Kerr.
It had been the 50 year anniversary (April 6, 1958) that the book was #1.
Had to put it on my reading list and found a copy at a local book sale!!
I had loved the humor of Erma Bombeck and Nora Ephron, and Jean is just as fun!Since this is an older book, Jean's references to the cost of items were worth many smiles!!
I don't know how this book has so many positive reviews. I was glad when it was over. I felt it was dated
I was given this book as a gift for my birthday.
Having seen the Doris Day movie that the book was based on I knew that I would enjoy it.
Unfortuately, I had a lot of other books piled up to read and it took me a little while to get to it.
I did eventually read it and found it very enjoyable and funny.
I especially got a kick out of the author's thoughts on raising children.
I need to go back and watch the Doris Day movie again!
Do I understand why this book was a bestseller when it came out? Yes. I even understand why people thought it was funny. But unfortunately, for me at least, many of the essays in this collection just don't transfer well over time. I was confused in several, and others just didn't seem pertinent, so I read them more like I would a history than a story. Recommended to: people studying the changing world of American humor over time, die-hard fans of the late 1950s and early 1960s, anyone who grew up in the 50s or 60s
I am cleaning out the office and saying goodbye to some books and I decided to read this again before I donated it.
Still a 3 but I think I enjoyed it more this time because I am a little older and a lot more frazzled.
It is a series of articles or pieces and even though I loved the glimpse back to the 1950 I could have written most of them, but who would publish and unknown nobody.
Jean was a somebody married to a somebody and somebodies get published not because they are more brilliant but because they are somebody.
This book was so poorly OCRd by Google it became distracting enough to lose a starI LOVE Jean Kerr. I am old enough to remember the sitcom with Patricia Crowly as the Mom and a big ol sheepdog as Lad a Dog. Kerr was a prolific comedic writer , living on Long Island. She did have 4 children. I LOVE the description of why she became a writer:so she could sleep till the crack of noon.This is a short fun read.
A classic of my childhood, I picked this up to read to my son and was amazed to discover just how much of it is not appropriate for kids, considering it's ostensibly about them. Still, Kerr's comedic voice is finely tuned, and I realized I owe her quite an unconscious debt in the development of my own writing style.Plus, I was riveted at the news that the house she described not only exists but is just as weird as she said it was.
This is a book of essays I picked up at a small-town library book sale in Oregon. Most of the essays are on motherhood. The book and the author's life are the basis for the Doris Day classic by the same title. Many essays on motherhood get sappy, or sarcastic, or long-suffering. Jean Kerr got it just right. I would have loved to have been a visitor in her home. I'll definitely look for more essay compilations by her.
Found this while on a road trip; laughed and laughed and passed it on to my 16yo daughter, which cannot be done with a lot of current humor. She laughed, also. I miss Jean Kerr. There need to be more humorists who have or are raising children, and are matter-of-fact about the joys and challenges of doing so, and whose books are available in cheap paperbacks free at rest stops on the highway. Thanks to the Laramie library friends who donated books to the Lincoln monument rest stop on I-80!
Have read most of her books several times. To me she is sort of the "pre-Erma Bombeck" who wrote of the unvarnished struggle for a woman to raise children, keep house, and try to have a career in the 50's and 60's. Her sarcasm and humor carry well and are not to dated, though some of her references definitely are (I love Bosco, thats the brand for me) LOL. Easy to read style and great sense of humor.
This was the basis of one of my favorite Doris Day films. The book is a collection of essays and columns by Jean Kerr, a playwright and wife of Walter Kerr, the NY Times theater critic. The book was published in 1957 and uses many pop culture references, so it was hard to follow at times. However, you can see the threads of where the plot for the movie came.
This was a good read. I was kind of expecting a novel instead of articles. I loved the movie and saw it before I read the book. This was a copy my mom had and I finally got to read it. I was a little bummed it wasn't in novel format, but it was still an interesting read. I didn't really see a lot of humor in the book, but it was a read that made me smile.
I believe the short stories in this book were originally published as magazine articles. This means they're full of jokes and references that were very current at the time but are now just very dated. There were some funny bits, but as I am not a mother, playwright, wife of a critic, 1960's housewife, or New Yorker, a lot of it went over my head. Meh.
