https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/526550.And_Then_There_Were_None
این ده نفر، هر یک به گونه‌ ای، در گذشته ی خود، باعث قتل یک فرد شده‌ اند.
پس از گذشت مدتی در جزیره، آن‌ها متوجه می‌شوند، که همه، از سوی یک فرد به آن جا دعوت شده‌ اند.
فردی که، با اینکه در جزیره نیست، از راز همه ی آن‌ها آگاه است؛ و اوضاع آشفته می‌شود؛ «گاه که این فرد آغاز به کشتن و قتل، تک‌ تک آنها، به روشی عجیب می‌کند، و قربانیان خود را، با اقتباس از یک شعر کودکانه، به نام: ده سرخپوست کوچک، به قتل می‌رساند.
It really is superb.
Absolutely brilliant. Recommended.
I have often said I was the only breathing human on the planet that didn’t like Agatha Christie..so where in the world did those 5 stars come from?
I will have to reevaluate my statement to I am the only breathing human on the planet that doesn’t like Agatha Christie…EXCEPT for And Then There Was NoneA group of ten strangers is invited or hired for a long weekend on Indian Island, a mile off the Devon coast.
In each of the bedrooms, the Ten Little Indians nursery rhyme is posted on a prominent wall.
bitch!!!!!!!!!!!! she really didn't have to go off the way that she did
Αυτό που μπορώ να πω μετά βεβαιότητας είναι πως, οι "Δέκα Μικροί Νέγροι" είναι ένα βιβλίο που δεν στερείται φαντασίας, σε καμία των περιπτώσεων, και το σενάριο του οποίου ξετυλίγεται με τέτοιον τρόπο ώστε να αποκαλύπτονται τόσα όσα πρέπει προκειμένου να μην πλήττουμε ούτε λεπτό αλλά από την άλλη, τόσα ώστε να μην μπορούμε να καταλήξουμε σε κανένα λογικό συμπέρασμα, σε κανέναν επιβεβαιωμένο ένοχο, μέχρι την στιγμή που η αυλαία πέφτει με έναν εντυπωσιακό τρόπο, με την συγγραφέα να μας αποδεικνύει πως όταν η φαντασία και η ευστροφία δίνουν ραντεβού, όλα μπορούν να συμβούν.Μπορεί στο παρελθόν να έχετε διαβάσει αναφορές μου στην Agatha Christie μέσα από τις οποίες να διαπιστώσατε ότι ναι μεν μου αρέσουν οι ιστορίες της και ο τρόπος που αυτές εξελίσσονται ωστόσο, κάποιες από αυτές με κουράζουν ως προς τον τρόπο αφήγησης.
Brief and direct in narrative style, but a bit too nihilistic for my taste. I usually enjoy novels that deal with deep life questions, such as the questions of justice with which this book interacts, and the setup was promising, but I just didn't like the execution (pun intended).
Wow! This book had me hooked from the beginning to the end. If you are looking for a murder mystery get into this book.
And Then There Were None by Agatha ChristieFascinating crime story, considered to be one of the bestThis work is rated twice, because I have just read it a second time.Well, not read exactly, but listened to the play adapted from the original.I think I have seen somewhere the information that Agatha Christie is the most translated author or something like that.Then the Mousetrap:- “The Mousetrap opened in the West End of London in 1952, and has been running continuously since then. It has by far

Agatha Christie wrote both of these works, she streamlined the plot for the play so that it would work better on stage than the dramatizations that people were trying to do of her novel, so it seems like it should have been wonderful.
There simply was no time for the reader to get involved, or edgy, because the murders were practically back to back.
For me, reading this was like reading a slasher play, and I'm pretty sure that's not the effect Dame Agatha was trying to achieve.
Maybe she liked slasher stuff just as much as the next Dame.
"Zece negrii mititei au mâncat la cină ouăUnul s-a-necat din ei şi-au rămas doar nouă.Nouă negrii mi
Интересно... и страшно)
Love this play and the ending is a lot happier but I think the book is quite a bit better and does more of what Agatha was going for...I think she tried to appeal to her audience here a bit more.
But it was very clear who was who, which isn’t always as clear in these kind of dramatizations.It’s less a whodunnit as more an unfolding of murder.
It’s actually more like modern true crime shows than a typical AC mystery.
I think AC liked to mixed it up.
You can only write so many Poirot stories before you wish he’d retire, I would imagine.I think it’s important to remember that the original story was Ten Little N*ggers and then Ten Little Indians.
But neither should we whitewash the blatant racism that existed, because while it doesn’t alter the murder mystery, it still changes the story by making everyone in it not complicit racists.
The play is a pretty faithful adaptation of the novel with only a few minor exceptions.Exception the First: The action of the piece has been altered to support a box set style, where everything the audience sees happens in one room.
Exception the Second: The ending.I understand Christie's reason for changing the ending but as scripted here, it just doesn't work.
The killer's cold and calculating presence is reduced to that of a cackling madman to support the ending.
It just weakens the entire piece.Which is to say that 95% of it is stellar but that last 5% really brings down the whole.
Such a great thriller. Full of interesting characters and the plot is so intriguing...really does keep you guessing. I love Agatha Christie but had read these mysteries since I was a girl reading with my grandmother. I loved revising this favorite.
I did not find this interesting, like a lot of other readers. I guess it just wasn't my type of mystery. Maybe in its day...
This is a great book. It is written as a play so it started out being a little difficult to read but I got into it very easily!
This is a full cast presentation of an Agatha Christie novel. It was fun!
This book was so thrilling and I couldn't guess who the murderer was. I loved this book sooooooo much! I recommend this book to anybody who likes mysteries or crime.
I don't know why - from what I've heard, someone wanted to adapt the book for the stage, and when Agatha Christie heard about this, she decided to do it for herself.
So, in the play, Claythorne and Lombard are actually innocent of their crimes and end up together.
Considering that in the original story, Vera actually kills Lombard and is then driven by accumulating guilt to commit suicide, this ending seems contrived at best.
In case you're wondering, Vera still shoots Lombard in the end, when they're left alone and she's convinced he's behind all the deaths on Soldier Island.
Their mysterious host fails to show up and at dinner and a recording is played, accusing all of the guests of murder, saying, “There was a silence—a comfortable replete silence.
As the book continues, the reader begins to understand more about each character through indirect characterization.
The facts seem to contradict themselves, for the reader is lead to believe Justice Wargrave is, in fact, dead.
Like other books by Agatha Christie, one of the major themes in And Then There Were None is justice.
The book was a little slow moving in the beginning but I learned to appreciate the time it took to set up the climax.
Jedes Mal, wenn einer von ihnen stirbt, wird eine kleine Porzellanfigur eines kleinen Soldaten zerschlagen, der Mörder ist also unter ihnen.Agatha Christies berühmter Krimi ohne Detektiv.
Nur gemeinsam sind sie stark, aber einer von ihnen ist der Mörder.
Wenn man viele Agatha Christie Romane kennt, erkennt man die falsche Fährte intuitiv, sie ist aber so gemacht, dass immer noch zwei Möglichkeiten bleiben, sehr geschickt.
Leider ist es ein wenig schwer, den Überblick über den Reim und die Taten der Opfer zu behalten, das sind teils zu viele Informationen für ein Hörspiel, die man so nicht richtig erfassen kann.
And Then There Were None "And Then There Were None": A book that goes from confusing to killer! “In the midst of life, we are in death.” This single quote from "And Then There Were None" by Agatha Christie truly summarizes the feel of the entire book. U.N. Owen, an unknown murder, sent ten people to Soldier’s Island. The people had no idea that they were going to be the subjects of a murder. The ten terrified people collaborated with one another, trying to solve their own murder mystery. One by
“In the midst of life, we are in death.” This single quote from "And Then There Were None" by Agatha Christie truly summarizes the feel of the entire book.
U.N. Owen, an unknown murder, sent ten people to Soldier’s Island.
Three little Indian boys walking in the Zoo; A big bear hugged one and then there were two.Two little Indian boys sitting in the sun; One got frizzled up and then there was one.One little Indian boy left all alone; He went and hanged himself and then there were none.”  This poem was hung throughout the house on Soldier’s Island.
I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a good, old fashion, murder mystery.
But then I read the introduction to my copy in which Ira Levin explained that Agatha felt other people were writing play adaptions of her novels TOO CLOSE to the original novel and that scared me a bit.
I mean, wouldn't too close be better?But then I actually read the play and could see what she meant by that.
Even though it was a short novel, with all the details from it included, well, this play would've have worked so well.However, the changes Agatha made and the way it all played out in the end turned out rather well.
I honestly think I may have liked the play quite a bit more than the novel.
The narrative then begins with a first person perspective of 10 strangers, who have all been summoned to a remote island that holds appeal for having once belonged to an eccentric millionaire and his wife.
This oddity seems relatively minor until that night, when in the middle of tea, a record begins playing that indicts each and every guest as a murderer who got away with it.
One by one, each of the guests die off according to the nursery rhyme that was told at the beginning.
3. How does the murderer maintain control of the situation?
Agatha Christie- Ten Little Indians (also known as: And Then There Were None) (Pocket Books 1966) 3.75 StarsThis is a timeless classic that I loved.
Ten people receive mysterious invitations to come to Indian Island.
It was interesting to see how each person was murdered and how it tied into the nursery rhyme.
It was also interesting to see how the killer pulled it all off.
I was a little annoyed by the fact that it jumped from perspective to perspective constantly, although I understand why Christie did it, it just got irritating.
I recommend this book to anyone who loves Agatha Christie and mysteries.
I've been trying to get my hands on this book ever since I found out it ended differently than the book.
I was absolutely giddy when I got my hands on the play yesterday and read it that night.
That's because Agatha Christie wrote it, rather than someone trying to adapt her characters and story for the stage.
I love her unique way of describing the stage and different emotions, she always has the exact word for everything, and I love it!
Overall, the play was brilliant, the ending was fabulous, and I'm going to go read it again.
My ten little soldier boys.
One little soldier boy left all alone.
I prefer the original novel, which is bleaker and a lot more psychologically complicated.
The novel is perhaps Christie’s masterpiece and this play has to change the ending completely in order to create a more upbeat experience.
Christie herself changed the ending at least, so it’s not a case of some other writer coming in and butchering the novel.
Christie said that a play needed a less morally complicated ending; whether she’s right in the aggregate or not, it works fine here.
And Then There Were None is a short novel, but an effective one.
Agatha Christie was able to create a thrilling and surprising mystery where everyone is a suspect.
This setting prevents the possibility of having a murderer coming from the outside, and leaves the reader with several characters among which the murderer is hiding.The only negative point I would like to notify is the fact that we never really get close to the characters.
I understand that the novel is focused on the mystery, but giving it a more emotional aspect would have let a bigger impact on the reader.However, And Then There Were None stays a masterpiece in the genre.
