https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350003.The_Accursed_Share
Bataille asserts with characteristic puissance that the excess of energy & the onanistic inferno of its disposal is the primary process which pulsates through economic systems and activates productive forces--rather than demand, capital, labour power, etc.
The energy surplus itself is ‘The Accursed Share’ because its disposal is a volatile process; for every beneficent carnival, potlatch and festival amid tight-knit social bonds, there is also opulent religious wastefulness, human sacrifice and the evil wars of bloodthirsty empires--special mention to WWI and WWII.
And this ritual euthanasia of unspent energy is not merely primary to our survival; disbursal of the explosive plethora of solar residue flows into joy, art, eroticism and transcendence.
Heidegger's claim that for Nietzsche, nihilism defines some kind of a-historical key to understanding all of Western history seems to me to be reproduced in its entirety (and fallibility), by suggesting that the economy has its own 'will to nothingness'.
I'd say that as much as Mick Dillon's book "Security" uses the concept of security to suggest there is a much richer 'lifeworld' of politics that we can start to see if we handle (that is, deconstruct) the term properly, here the same could count with respect to the use of 'excess' (that as well borders on the now somewhat deflated concept of 'affect') as a key to our economic imagination.
A combination of the Erotic with the Economic.
How does Georges Bataille combine the two.
One of the most original thinkers in contemporary (20th Century) literature.
Bataille not only sees economy as a means to exchange goods but also the the extras that are there and how one uses the 'extras'.
The excess of power, exchange, and perhaps love itself.
Difficult at times, but also incredibly rewarding.
A good introduction to Bataille's work is for sure his fiction (The Story of the Eye, etc.) but that's not really enough.
And that is a very rewarding journey my friends.
(This conclusion is what only the perspective of the general economy can illuminate; by focussing on a short-term slice of a particular economy, as orthodox economists do, they are deluded into thinking that there can be definite non-squandering ends to profitable operations.)The surplus resources that a society must expend, Bataille names the accursed share.
Bir iktisat kitabı denilebilir. Bir hoca ile konuşmamda bana söylediği şuydu, "Sosyal bilimler ve iletişim aslında iktisattan beslenir." Ben bu beslenmeyi çok anlamlandıramamıştım. Bu kitap beni buna yordu denilebilir ama pek de (kendi adıma) başarılı olduğu söylenemez. Çok uzağında okumalar yaptığım için olsa gerek diyerek çekilebilirim aradan...
Bataille's philosophy of History. Totally cogent and elegant. More legible than his theories of erotics.
Ritual sacrifice, potlatches, conquest, festivals, opulence and luxury, lavish public works--avenues through which given social formations must expend their surpluses or risk descending into famine, imperial wars, genocide, mass unemployment, etc. Focusing on consumption in this first volume, Bataille traces societal mechanisms of expenditure through their archaic, medieval, capitalist and communist iterations and offers a model of a solar economy based on excess rather than scarcity. Bataille's prose here is lucid, lacking the sometimes overwrought style of some of his earlier work on eroticism.
Though Bataille continues to deal with religion and ritual in this book, his concerns are more classically Anthropological than in Theory of Religion (population growth, scarcity, social structure etc.).
The project he sets out in the introductory chapters is the development ofa "general economy": a system that not only accounts for thedevelopment and exchange of goods, but of all energy on the Earth.
From the perspective of general economy, life is a terrific excess that cannot be fully utilized due to the limits of growth and reproduction.
Through the examination of historical data, Bataille proposes that the definitive structure of human cultures can be found in how they deal with this primary excess.
A magnificent text on the destructive tendency of economy and Bataille's vision of a "headless society". The only bad part of it is when he defends Stalinist Russia, arguing against his own thesis to do so- he proposes that Russia needs to accumulate purposefully in order to achieve full capitalism so that it can reach communism, but this contradicts his own vision of societies of wasteful and extravagant use value, as well as accepting the excuses made for Bolshevik dictatorship, a bit shortsighted for him, all understanding given. NEVERTHELESS, an excellent and mind-shifting treatise.
Bataille is slipping in and out of my mind as I participate in making books. How to produce books that sumptuously consume themselves? / Retreat from the grasp of the reader--so the object cannot disappoint them, only their experience w/their own memory.
The overall thesis of the book seems to me to be that as organisms we get more energy than we need (surplus, excess) and must (profitlessly, needlessly, uselessly) expend this excess and that while other theories of economy focus on production, his "general economy" focuses on this expenditure/consumption.
Everything in this book seems to build off these ideas and it goes in pretty bizarre directions.
The chapters on the Aztecs and Soviet Industrialization were very good.
The last section of the last chapter talks about "self-consciousness" and how it is a different kind of consciousness because it is not a consciousness OF anything, but of "pure interiority".
Kitabın son dipnotunun son satırları: (,,,) Belirgin bir olguya gönderme yapan mülahazaları buraya dahil ettiğim için özür dilerim: Bu ekonomi kitabının yazarı, ayrıca, (eserinin bir bölümüyle) bütün zamanların mistiklerinin takipçisidir ( ama çeşitli mistisizmlerin bütün varsayımlarına da aynı ölçüde yabancıdır; bunların karşısına kendinin bilincinin berrak bilincini çıkartır)
*italian chef’s kiss*
Bataille examines the economic systems throughout history, along with diverging cultures, in order to critique society using his theory of General Economy based off of the notion of non-productive expenditure (pure loss), which is the dissipation of excess wealth or resources that go against the Capitalist ideology of accumulation.
The Accursed Share is an attempt to provide examples to illustrate his ideas on general economy.
In my opinion, I found the general economy to be a fascinating critique of society.
Involving areas of anthropology, aesthetics, history, culture, and economics, “The Accursed Share” provides a new insight into the heart of civilization.
Extraits:"L'organisme vivant, dans la situation que déterminent les jeux de l'énergie à la surface du globe, reçoit en principe plus d'énergie qu'il n'est nécessaire au maintient de la vie; l'énergie (la richesse) excédante peut être utilisée à la croissance d'un système (p.ex.
d'un organisme); si le système ne peut plus croître, ou si l'excédent ne peut en entier être absorbé dans sa croissance, il faut nécessairement le perdre sans profit, le dépenser, volontiers ou non, glorieusement ou sinon de façon catastrophique."Il s'agit d'un extrait qui résume à merveille le thème de l'ouvrage qui offre des perspectives anthropologiques/sociologiques originales dans un langage admirable, pour autant que l'on ne tienne pas trop rigueur des principes de la physique.
I think it a shame that people know him from Story of the Eye and not works like this or Erotism.
The world of utility (future directed behavior vis-a-vis objects) and that of 'intimacy' operate on different planes.
'intimacy' is basically that reconciliation with oneself, but this 'one' is ultimately - like Hegel's geist, I gather - nothing but energy.
Insofar as it touches everything, it can not be fully comprehended/isolated in reference to something else.
We can know what this self-consciousness is negatively speaking, and 'silence' is the key.
but of course it can never be fully known/experienced.
Something like this.
Intellectually stimulating and amusing.
I feel like the last chapter which comes off like some kind of excuse for Stalinism drags down the entirety of the book and Batailles incisive mind, nevertheless the theory of the solar economy remains a must for people interested in this author.
This should be one of the first books to read if you ask me, it has an outrageously freshtake on human life as a surplus of energy and the problems arising from the human condition when this surplus needs to be taken care of.
Volume 1 is a marvelous tease.
Volume 2 & 3 are ordered and cannot arrive soon enough.
The compelling argument that a postlapsarian focus on growth, usefulness, labor, profit, can only end in a squandering of those gains points to damning proof from the world around us.
Contrasted with the Aztec society, where the cosmology of life assigns humanity to being food for the gods and thus privileges consumption over growth, modernity may face its anxieties, its poverty mentality, and the overwhelming weight of its profane objectification of a world meant to be sacred.My one complaint is that Georges Bataille is no economist so the early emphasis on economy feels clumsy and burdened with a technical language.
Somewhat reminiscent to Weber's 'Capitalism & the Protestant Ethic', this book outlines the parallel processes of economic & religious historical developments. Somewhat difficult to get into & the final chapter focuses entirely on the Soviet Union, which is kind of an odd finish to read now that the Cold War is long over. But otherwise a pretty interesting read. Not as good as Bataille's Part 2: Theory of Religion.
Intriguing opening salvo. I'm profoundly puzzled by the connection between the analyses of economies and self-consciousness. I gather that the limited economies discussed here, and the limited analyses of economies, are what make it unclear how self-consciousness depends on the general economic move of expenditure -- thus to have no object.
After reading this, I now subscribe to Bataille's theory of "general economy." On this view, economies aren't about production but the dissipation of surplus energy. By extension, next time I meet someone who drives a Hummer, I'll shake their hand and smile. Of course I'm joking.
"De todos os lados e de todas as formas um mundo em movimento quer ser mudado"
As recommended by Marginal Revolution's Tyler Cowen...
A revelation early on in my philosophical wanderings. Eroto-econo-socio-anthropology at its best.
Origins of the potluck, you greenbean casserole eating turkeys.
Pot-latching. Yum
I've glimpsed into this and am excited. Unnaturallye excited.
This book explained current politics to me
