https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83271.Nietzsche_and_Philosophy
آقای«ژیل دُلُوز» دیدِ عجیب و خلاقانهای به آثار فلاسفه و ادبا داره مثلاً، نیچه نامههای دوران جنونش رو با عنوان«دیونیزوس _مصلوب» امضاء میکرده[در یکی از نامهها میگوید، دستور داده: همهی یهودیان تیرباران شوند] ولی دلوز با یهسری تعابیر_ فارغ از درستی یا غلطی_ این جنس کارهای نیچه رو توجیه میکنهکتاب جهت آشنایی با دیدگاه دلوز عالیه ولی فقط در حد آشنایی، حجم کم اجازهی تعمیق نمیده. برای کسی که کتاب دیگهای در مورد نیچه نخونده باشه یا با اصول عقایدش آشنا نباشه، دیدگاه دلوز فقط سردرگمش میکنه
آقای«ژیل دُلُوز» دیدِ عجیب و خلاقانه‌ای به آثار فلاسفه و ادبا داره مثلاً، نیچه نامه‌های دوران جنونش رو با عنوان«دیونیزوس _مصلوب» امضاء می‌کرده[در یکی از نامه‌ها می‌گوید، دستور داده: همه‌ی یهودیان تیرباران شوند] ولی دلوز با یه‌سری تعابیر_ فارغ از درستی یا غلطی_ این جنس کارهای نیچه رو توجیه میکنهکتاب جهت آشنایی با دیدگاه دلوز عالیه ولی فقط در حد آشنایی، حجم کم اجازه‌ی تعمیق نمی‌ده. برای کسی که کتاب دیگه‌ای در مورد نیچه نخونده باشه یا با اصول عقایدش آشنا نباشه، دیدگاه دلوز فقط سردرگمش می‌کنه


the eternal return and will to power) are really concepts rather than poetic images, and when Deleuze tries to formulate these concepts with the 'precision' he thinks they intrinsically held for Nietzsche, he ends up unwittingly exposing how vague and incomprehensible the terms are if you try to make them part of a philosophical system.For all his talk of anti-dialectics, his book seems to owe it's ordering of ideas to the straightforward Genealogy of Morals, while incorporating relevant images and the climactic ending rhetoric (the happy end of nihilism defeating itself) from the more poetically inclined Thus Spoke Zarathustra, in a perfect synthesis.This kind of stuff in his discussion of the eternal return I found incomprehensible: 'It is not being that returns but rather the returning itself that constitutes being insofar as it is affirmed of becoming and of that which passes.' We lose all sense of what 'returning' could possibly mean in this optimistic configuration in which it miraculously precedes 'being'.
I wouldn't call Deleuze's book a clarification of Nietzsche, but rather a purification. Nietzsche got such a bad rap that someone needed to pull out his good ideas and mine them. And Deleuze is an awfully good chap for the task. While I don't keep the saintly vision of Nietzsche that G.D. does, I really dig the reinterpretation of the will to power and the extraction of the potential for liberation that Deleuze sees in Nietzsche's texts.
Nietzsche’s thought is “The creative element of meaning and its values”, which functions “to introduce the notions of meaning and value into philosophy.” Get used to hearing those words a lot as Deleuze imputes value as shape-shifting through the traffic of history and culture, cracking open critical philosophy and beginning again washed clean of tongue-tied Kantianism.
Nietzsche’s helical method for evaluation is the creative act central to thought and is, for Deleuze, a direct riposte to Kant’s inquiry into the limits of reason (and Hegel doesn’t survive the skirmish either).
The Kantian misfire is implicitly corrected by Nietzsche’s affirmative philosophy of life.
هنگامی که کسی می پرسد: فلسفه به چه کار می آید؟ پاسخ باید ستیزه جویانه باشد، چرا که پرسش کنایه دار و نیش دار است.
فلسفه نه به دولت خدمت می کند و نه به کلیسا، فلسفه به خدمتِ هیچ قوه ی مستقری در نمی آید.
کار فلسفه ناراحت کردن است.
فلسفه ای که هیچ کس را ناراحت نکند و به هیچ کس ضدیت نورزد فلسفه نیست.کار قلسفه آزردنِ حماقت است، فلسفه حماقت را به چیزی شرم آور تبدیل می کند.
فلسفه کاربردی ندارد جز افشاکردنِ پستی های اندیشه در تمامی اشکالش.آیا جز فلسفه رشته ای هست که به نقد تمامیِ راز آمیزگری ها، هر خاستگاه و هدفی که داشته باشد، همت گمارد؟
Provide details about Nietzsche philosophy and helps to understand how he views the world.
Deleuze powerfully interprets some of Nietzsche's concepts, but does something much more than giving a new coat of paint to the eternal return.
Deleuze treats Nietzsche seriously as a philosopher and situates him alongside Heraclitus or Hegel with all the precision of a scholastic metaphysician; but he also identifies what animates Nietzsche, questions of how to live and affirm one's own existence, all whilst side-stepping (overcoming?) Existential despair over meaning and suffering.
And like many of his works written in other voices, Deleuze, by exploring another philosopher's thought, discovers what he thinks; he does not regurgitate Nietzsche, he interacts with him and creates a new sense for him.
He systematizes Nietzsche's thoughts, pushing Nietzsche's conclusions in ways are interesting and compelling, but seem to be in line with Nietzsche's criticism of society and human conduct.
Nietzsche remains fairly amorphous here as Nietzsche has always been pushed in various ways (by Nazis, and so on).I read this book over ten years ago, and have returned to it now and then.
although Nietzsche use of myth and character still remains evident; threatening to undo Deleuze's reading simply because of Nietzsche's intense ambiguity at times.
Wanted to strangle Deleuze at least 30 times during this book. But it's an inspired and sedulous reading of Nietzsche. If only I could believe what Deleuze believes. How big can one human beings balls be in order to revolutionize human existence? On to Difference and Repetition I go.
It always amazes me how Deleuze can utilize another thinker's concepts in such a way that twists their thought into something new; but a newness that grows forth from the original thought.Having read Difference & Repetition before this, it was interesting to see how so many of Deleuze's own concepts spring from within his studies of other philosophers.While I don't completely agree with his interpretation of Nietzsche, this book is very useful in expanding one's ways of thinking through Nietzsche.
Classic Deleuze.If you like Nietzsche or Deleuze then you can't go wrong.
An interesting work of philosophy for certain.
Alejándose de una exposición excesivamente didáctica que simplificaría en demasía algunos conceptos, Deleuze presenta un esquema general de las ideas de Nietzsche destacando la oscuridad y aparente contradicción de su pensamiento.
Con un lenguaje visceralmente afirmativo, poco argumental, expone la filosofía de Nietzsche alumbrando caminos para su comprensión.
Agresividad y contrasentido caracterizan al libro de Deleuze.
Escribiendo acerca de Nietzsche, sobre su pensamiento, Deleuze ha dado a luz un libro nietzscheano, intempestivamente nietzscheano.
Quizá porque es más difícil entender a Nietzsche que experimentarlo.
Los textos del filósofo recogidos al final y agrupados temáticamente ayudan a ejemplificar como abordó y expuso sus ideas.
ژیل دلوز خوانندگان نیچه را از چهار تعبیر نادرست درباره ی مفاهیم و مبانی اندیشه او برحذر می دارد:1.
درباره بازگشت ابدی ( این پنداشت که منظور از آن ایده ای قدیمی است که از یونانی ها، هندی ها، بابلی ها...
اقتباس شده است؛ این پنداشت که منظور از آن دایره، یا بازگشت همان، بازگشت به همان است4.درباره آخرین آثار ( این پنداشت که این آثار مبالغه آمیزند یا ، بر اثر جنون، فاقد اعتبار گشته اندهمیشه باید ار افراد قوی دربرابر افراد ضعیف به دفاع برخاست - فردریش نیچه
Weaker forces, which are naturally reactive, are, for DN, necessary for the life of the body, but they can only know themselves in relation to a stronger, more creative force which is always outside consciousness.
But Delueze's notions of will as a relations of forces sounds to me quite a bit like those of Althusser's “totality of contradiction.” I am certainly not saying that Deleuze was in any sense a Marxist, but that he was, like so many French philosophers of his generation still in the intellectual shadow of Althusser, and thus, indirectly, of Maoist thought.)One can say, then, that a will, a body be it individual or societal, is not a being, but rather a becoming, a series of forces or points acting upon one another, a shifting constellation of powers.
The book revealed to me a whole lot more Nietzsche than I could have ever imagined.
Moreover, Deleuze clarifies a lot of what Nietzsche means - especially the very complex idea of the eternal return.I think that this was one of the more readable Deleuzean texts but that one mustn't read this book without having read some Nietzsche...
Excellent!!
Read in conjunction with the Kant book and before Difference and Repetition. This is where we first see “flows” but here they are called “forces”. One also sees glimpses of other later Deleuzian concepts such as the image of thought and his conception of the Eternal Return, as well as Deleuze’s general anti-Hegelianism. As with all the monographs, this more about Deleuze than the given subject.
Una filosofía tan conocida y tan mal comprendida como la de Nietzsche quizás rehúye cualquier intento de exégesis, y el mismo Nietzsche no detestaba la idea de ser mal comprendido.
Quizás este y otros libros al respecto fueran capítulos prescindibles.
Deleuze trata en este libro de escalar el cuerpo de la filosofía nietzscheana no con fidelidad a sus líneas, sino con agudeza para sus preguntas y problemas.
Como quiera que sea, es una obra que merece la pena ser leída, y ser, sobre todo, pensada...
y quizás re-pensada.

Now the important thing for me is to find out more about "Difference and Repetition".
But I think I am not ready to read it.
I am focusing more on Spinoza now.
I believe that the concept of immanence is very important for the whole Deleuzian project.
So I have to read Spinoza and Leibniz.
At the same time I have to read some Heidegger for an exam.
I believe after reading this book I have come to new conclusions about Heidegger.
I think his later philosophy is more Spinozist than I thought.
I am thinking about th links between Nietzsche, Spinoza, Deleuze and Heidegger.
Referring to the Columbia University Press edition Not sure if it is a problem of translation, but the writing itself is very repetitive and vague, despite the fact that the constant repetition is done to clarify points. Some sentences are difficult to read due t the sentence structure, and some typos were found. Where it is not vague, the text is an amazing study of Nietzsche. Just a shame that it could not be stated more clearly.
كتاب بسيط عن نيتشة بشكل مبسطلجيل دولوز كتاب اخر اسمه نيتشة و الفلسفة وقرأت هذا كمجرد مدخل سريع لدولوز جيد و خفيف ، وعرض لافكار نيتشة الرئيسيةو بهذا الكتاب لا تشعر بروح دولوز الفلسفي ، بدأت قراءة ( نيتشة و الفلسفة ) هناك تستشعر روح الفيلسوف
"الله الذي كان يرى كل شيء، وحتى الإنسان، كان من الضروري أن يموت. فالإنسان لا يتحمل أن يترك شاهداً كهذا على قيد الحياة" هذا أول كتاب من خطتي للتعمق في فكر نيتشه وكان موفق نوعاً ما لكنني ما أشعر أنه كفاني
Yoruma gerek yok...
There are not enough stars in the sky for me to rate this book.
من أفضل من الرائع جيل دولوز للحديث عن نيتشه ! يمثل هذا الكتاب مدخلا لفلسفة نيتشه.
اگر هنر نبود،حقیقت مارا می کشت.این جمله همه ی فلسفه ی نیچه رو واسه ی من نمود میکنه.این که یه فیلسوف 
4.5
I really enjoyed this. It was so insightful.
Expect a passionate, creatively systematic introduction to Deleuze's Nietzsche — or rather, to Deleuze!
