https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900070.The_Berenstain_Bears_Go_to_School
Berenstain Bears between 1977 and 1985 are the best stories. The art work is fantastic in this little gem and it is about the fear of starting something new. There is something magic in the art in this one. I think they put so much into this new series and it really shows.My nephew is loving these books. My niece remembers them fondly too. Great stuff.
A good first day of school prep book. I love that the Berenstain bears books always have a moral. Children can identify with brother and sisters experiences.
I personally loved the Berenstain Bears as a child, I believe all their books have positive themes and deal with topics that children around that age are going through.
They don’t know what to expect and aren’t used to being away from home for the day, but I think this story may help elevate that fear in children, as they see sister bear having fun and enjoying school.
Overall I enjoy the Berenstain Bears and this book as well as others in the series are great for teaching younger children relatable life lessons.
This book is about Sister going to school for the very first time.
She ends up loving school, and even convincing brother to love school as well on a sunny day where he rather be outside.This book has really good pictures, and would be a great one to read to kindergartners on their first day of school.
It is a cute story and has a good little lesson within it.
After reading it the class may choose to do some of the activities that sister did on her first day.
The story also has a good moral: always give things a chance.
We got a series of Berenstain Bear books as a shower gift when William was born, but didn't pull them out till he was about 18 months old.
This has been his favourite book for a long time (only recently replaced by 'Big Dog, Little Dog' by P.D Eastman).
He enjoyed all of his Berenstain Bear books, but he usually asked for "Da Bears, School bus in it" the most.
William asked for this book a lot, we probably read it an average of twice a day for 3 months, and neither of us grew tired of it.
The Berenstain Bear books are classics. They all portray a bear family with a son and daughter and can be related to real life. This one particular is about sister bear getting ready to start kindergarten for the first time and being scared about what was going to happen. It is a great book for parents to read to their children especially before they go off and start school. Some children might get the impression that school is not a fun place to be but when they get there they will learn they might actually enjoy it.
Brother is getting bored with summer and looking forward to going back to school but Sister is nervous. This is her first time at school and she worries that she isn't going to enjoy it. But when she sees all the fun things that there are to do, she loves it. I remember starting primary school for the first time-I wasn't nervous at all, I was so excited to be there!
This book is one of my absolute favorites, especially as a future teacher. It is something that so many kids can relate to at all ages, I am nervous every year to start school, especially when it is new and I don't know my teachers or classmates. This is a feel good story and is really good to read to kids in elementary school. I love all the Berenstain Bear books as well!
I kind of enjoyed this book because I liked kindergarten. I did not like this book because I do not like bears.
no wannie school!
Most school has started around the country, but if you have little ones and they are still struggling with going, or if you will have some going in the next few years, this is a great book.
The book follows Sister Bear as she gets ready to go to school for the first time.
It shows how nervous and anxious she is even after a visit to the school and even with an older brother telling her how fun school is.
However she also gets to see how she can help others who are scared and how much fun indeed school really is.
Good bookMy name is Julie and I am seven years old. I liked this book because it was about bears and my favorite animal is a bear.
One of my favourites when I was a kid.
This story begins with the summer season ending and Brother and Sister Bear getting ready to go back to school.
Sister Bear is beginning kindergarten and she wonders what school will be like.
Mama Bear takes Sister to school to meet her teacher, Miss Honeybear.
Then it is time for the first day of school and Sister is a little hesitant about going.
The age range of this story is primary (5-8yrs.) because it discusses going to school, specifically kindergarten.
I feel that this is a fairly good story, but it is not realistic about the way kindergarten is taught these days, at least in public schools.
In this book the cubs are at the end of their summer vacation and it is time to go back to school.
When the first day rolls around sister bear is scared again, but brother assures her that school is fun so off they go to school.
At the end of the day sister realizes that school is so much fun and that she was worrying for no reason.This book is a very well written book that explains the struggles that a child may face when attending school for their first time.
For these reasons I give this book a five star rating.
It helps set their minds at ease about what school is like.In this Berenstain Bears story, Mama Bear notices that Sister Bear looks worried when Brother Bear mentions that he wants to get back to school after summer vacation.
A few days later, Brother Bear rushes to the bus, dragging Sister along with him.
Sister discovers that she loves school, so a few days later when Brother Bear wishes it was still vacation, Sister is the one who drags *him* to the bus.My students always laugh at this change of perspective.
I already really enjoy this entire series, but this one is one of my favorites, as it follows Sister Bear going to Kindergarten.
She is full of worries right up to the bus she gets on with Brother Bear to go to school.
I would love to include this book as a read aloud in my class on the first day to not only calm some fears of students, but to also introduce these characters so that I could continue to read other Berenstain Bear books throughout the year as they apply to lessons.
Sister Bear is starting kindergarten and she's got a lot of worries.
What keeps this from being your typical 'starting school' book is the wonderful contrast shown as the kids get ready to go to school.
On the first day of school, Brother Bear is all eagerness as is the older bears on the bus, but the younger ones are timid and quiet.
Then the second day we see that glorious turnaround where the excitement of a new school year has kind of worn off for Brother, but Sister is the one with all the excitement.
Genre: Picture BookAudience: K-4thTopic: Going to SchoolTheme: Learning is funCurricular Uses: Read Aloud, Independent Reading Reading Level: Late Transitional Literary Elements: Dialogue, Repetition, RhymeIllustrations: Detailed illustrations support the text and help express the emotions of the characters. Helpful to readers because of the long texts on each page.  These books always send great messages to young readers. There is always a moral on the first page of the book that rhymes. Would definitely use any of the Berenstain Bear books in the classroom to introduce a variety of topics
I loved this series when I was younger, but this specific book was one of my favorites.
The books were very popular when I was a kid, but I know they've died down a little bit.
I've introduced my younger siblings to these books and they were hooked just like I was when I was a kid!
This specific book would be great to read to a kid that's has pre-kindergarten jitters, as this is what the book is about.
These books are great because they always have a story and message that's easy for anyone, especially kids to relate to.
The Berenstain Bears Go to School is a great book for children who are about to start school for the first time or are maybe about to attend a new school.
The book is about the changes we experience from summer break to the start of school and about the many different emotions and fears we feel when we go to new places.
The theme of this book is that it is normal to have fear of the unknown as long as you face that fear in the face.
I feel that this collection of books is a great collection for any new reader to be able to get their hands onto.
Sister Bear is nervous about school when Brother mentions that he wishes summer vacation would just be over already. (That is *so* unrealistic.)But her mother takes her to meet her new kindergarten teacher, and that goes all right. Then we get a quick review of Sister's first day of school, including the various things a child might do in kindergarten, and finally we see that she's excited about school.This book would do well to calm a nervous child going off to school for the first time.
I think that this book was a fun book.At first sister bear didn't wan't to go to third grade,because somebody teased her that third grade was very hard.So mama bear told her that,"At first you didn't wan't to go to kindergarten too,but then you tried to go there and you loved it.You met a new friend too."So sister bear said,"OK' I will try ."Then sister bear tried grade 3 and she loved it. She told her mom it was a little bit hard,but I still loved it.I saw Lizzy too.Then papa bear made apple pie so they all ate.
This book would be appropriate for beginners starting schools (both Pre-K and K).
This book emphasizes that nervousness and fear of the unknown are quite common for all students on the first day of school.
With the help of her mama, papa, and brother; Sister Bear was able to enjoy her first day of school!
Perhaps students can write/ draw how they felt on their first day of school, and we compare the feelings of both the students and Sister Bear.
We can list out ideas on how we could have helped Sister Bear feel more comfortable in school, if she was in our class.
This was the first Berenstain Bears book I read as a child and have loved it ever since. I read it to my children as they were preparing to head to preschool. I have always loved the illustrations of the classroom - it is very warm and inviting, and how Mama Bear and Miss Honey help Sister Bear to overcome her nervousness about heading to school. It is a wonderful introduction to going to school.
I feel that this book is a wonderful introduction to school for a child who will soon be attending school for the first time. The story focuses on beginning school for the first time and having doubts about the changes that it brings. Throughout the story the book as well as the corresponding illustrations help paint a picture of what going to school is like, and what a good experience it can be.
I personally loved all of the Berenstain Bears books as a kid, and I feel students still do/will. I chose this one in particular because it is a good "going to school" lesson. It makes going to school more interesting. It's a great lesson on starting your first day of school, and how it isn't as scary as it may seem. The illustrations are colorful and attention grabbing. Students will find this book relatable.
The Berestain Bears were my favorite picture book series as a kid. I think I've read all of the classic stories and this one was just reprinted and arrived at my library. I still love this bear family and their little bear community and their AWESOME tree house. I think I always will.This story centers on Sister Bear, who starts Kindergarten and who's a bit nervous about it. Brother Bear and Mama Bear encourage her to be brave and she finds out she really loves school.
★★★★★The Berenstain Bears Go to School by Stan and Jan BerenstainThe summer is winding down, the leaves begin to change, and the wind has a chill, it's time to start school. This is Sister's big year, kindergarten, yikes! Meet the teacher goes well, and she calms down. But today is the first day, and the worries are back. Until she realizes, there is nothing to be worry about, school is fun. This is a nice story to help reassure kids, that change can be fun.
This is a great story to read to children who are getting ready to start school. It shows sister bear preparing for Kindergarten. She's a bit anxious and isn't sure that she will like it. But after an orientation visit to the school and the reassurances of her family and teacher, she learns that school is fun!
