https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1332967.Jailed_for_Freedom
I mean the tight group of courageous women (which most of us today can't even name) portrayed in this book who spent literally decades being persecuted, jailed, beaten and self-starved in hunger strikes just so we double-Xs could have a voice in our own government.
What politicians had not been able to get through their minds we would give them through their eyes--often a powerful substitute."Those who hold power are responsible to the country for the use of it.
There never has been a fight yet where interest was pitted against principle that principle did not triumph!" (Inez Milholland)"We are here today to pay tribute to Inez Millholland...
The most inspiring historical account of the suffrage movement and women earning the right to vote.
While Doris Stevens' writing style is not exceptional, she more than makes up for simple sentence structure by writing the truth, from her heart, with depth and clarity.
Details of the inner workings of the National Woman's Party during their militant campaign for suffrage in the 1910's are explained so that any reader, with any political understanding, can comprehend and sympathize with the suffragists.
Horrendous jail conditions, police beatings, and forced feedings paint a detailed picture of the suffering these activists endured.
This is a primary source narrative of the enactment of the 19th Amendment and the courage of the women who daily picketed outside the White House, opened themselves to ridicule and physical violence, were arrested for no viable charges, jailed when they chose not to pay fines, went on hunger strikes and were force fed.
Despite all of this they persevered.
President Wilson comes across as a politician who only provided encouragement when it was politically expedient to do so; otherwise, he let it flounder.
What makes this book so unique is that it is not a biography or a historical reflection of women’s suffrage, but a firsthand testimony from a suffragist, Doris Stevens.
While her narrative was occasionally bogged down with bipartisan bickering, her testimony of life in a workhouse and in jail, hunger strikes, and demonstrations were captivating.
Additionally, Ms. Stevens really painted President Wilson in a very bad light.
Regardless, it was a remarkable account of the immense endeavor to achieve women’s right to vote in America and Ms. Steven’s gives a voice to the thousands of women who represented this cause.
The section titled "The President Appeals to the Senate" is nearly unlistenable due to the narrator's inability to place the accent on the proper syllable of many words. Librivox really should redo this chapter. Fortunately, this is the only chapter read by this narrator, but WOW! is this awful to listen to.Otherwise, the book is well done and the story is both horrifying and inspiring. I hadn't realized how much abuse the Suffragist endured in their struggle to enfranchise the women of the U.S.
It is so easy to take for granted the hard-earned privilege we enjoy that is the right to vote; this book is a beautiful reminder of the story of some of those women who fought for and earned this right for generations to come.
I bought this book after watching (and loving) the movie Iron Jawed Angels.
When I learned one of the main characters had written a firsthand account of some of those pivotal moments leading up to the passage of the 19th amendment, I decided to read this book.
It is a truly a great read!
This book totally blew me away! I didn't realize how long the suffrage movement took, and I certainly hadn't connected the Democratic Administration as opposition. My history classes in high school NEVER talked about it except to say we (women) were 'given' the right to vote in the 19th Amendment.
I applaud the courage of the women who unceasingly campaigned for my right to vote and am disgusted by the men who tried to block it.This is an intense book and more than I can handle emotionally and was therefore unable to finish.
I've read many books on the subject and this was by far the best in terms of accuracy and writing. The facts and events were amazing and the prose an easy read. I used this to research my novel A Song for Ana.
Just a book I wanted to read, to pass down to my girls about the suffrage amendment. It's a factual account of the whole movement, written by one of the women who was wrongly jailed for picketing. Definitely an important book, but a little hard to read at times.
It is about the war, ladies. We need to remember
Important tbook all women and girls should read.
A good primary source. The 1920s publication of a suffrage activist who marched, picketed, and was jailed with the National Woman's Party.
This is a re-edited work that weeds out a lot of the legalese and minutae that made for hard reading and leaves the stories to stand out. see also Iron-Jawed angels in my Netflix queue
Cspan First Ladies Series: Dolly Madison
Indignation was swift and hot.
