https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48002.Thief_of_Time
I could repeat what all the other reviews have said about this book, but I'm not. You should read it for a total of five reasons.1. Susan (one of the best characters ever)2. Pratchett's character of Death rules.3. The wonderful use of chocolate in the novel.4. Mrs. War5. One of the best descriptions of a school room ever.
Well, I did not love Lu-Tze, or the History Monks, or the Glass Clock plot...BUT, this being a Pratchett book, it was easy to find plenty of other things to go gaga over.- This exchange between Susan and her grandfather:"They're going to do something to time?
"But that's far too difficult for seven-year-olds!""Yes, but I didn't tell them that and so far they haven't found out," said Susan.- There was a raven named Quoth.That's one good thing about the Discworld series - even if you don't like the book as a whole, parts of it are sure to make you smile.
I grabbed this one because the plot sounded interesting, and when I read the jacket at home, I noticed it was part of the "Discworld" series.
In fact, there's even a flowchart displaying the proper reading order for eight different sub-plots within the Discworld series!
I could tell that I'd be reading more Pratchett (and more Discworld) books in the future shortly after I started.
A very fun read — so much so that I decided to start at the beginning of this sub-plot reading order ("Death Novels") and read more Pratchett.
Desgraciadamente me aburrió HORRORES todo el tema de los monjes y la historia de Lu-Tze, que ocupa buena parte de la novela, pero es que todo lo demás me encantó. Especialmente los divertidísimos Auditores, la siempre genial Susan y su inimitable abuelo, y por supuesto la aparición estelar de una de mis brujas preferidas.Así que no sé muy bien que pensar de este libro, cosas muy guays y otras no tanto.
Kwai Chang Caine and Master Kan sit meditating, sipping tea and discussing Terry Pratchett’s 2001 Discworld novel Thief of Time.Master Kan: Please tell me, young Caine, what was your favorite part of Sir Pratchett’s book.Caine: I liked it all, master, but I suppose I most liked the character Lobsang Ludd.Master Kan: Why is that grasshopper?Caine: Master, he was an apprentice to the great Lu-Tze, who was only a sweeper, and yet he was so much more, he traded his deserved greatness for a lowly position amongst the History Monks.Master Kan: And why, young student, does this interest you?Caine: His humility and cleverness stood in contrast to his Lobsang’s talents.
Death is featured, but once again, more play is given to granddaughter Susan, who, in the ongoing move to Discworld modernity, is now an elementary school teacher.
We also get a few new characters: one a very talented clockmaker, another a novice under Lo Tze the time monk.
Marvelous fun along the way as Pratchett explores what time means to humans.
Such fun.
At the moment Susan is my favorite character, although that could change as I read the other sequences.7/20/2016Veronica could not be swayed by my suggestion that she read Pratchett, but a reputable someone at Summer Ventures recommended one.
That's not altogether a bad thing though b/c I Adams is one of my very favorite authors and he did not leave this world with too many books.
These observations made the book for me.
And that's what I liked best about this book and in general what I love most about reading.
You know, that kind of boiled down perfection that I'm not achieving in anyway in this review.
Unfortunately towards the end of this book, Pratchett gets a little caught up in the mystical mood and forgets he's writing a comedy, but the fact that he can distill at all makes him worth reading.
Thief of Time is the fifth and final(!) book in the Death subseries of Discworld.
What the Auditor doesn’t tell Jeremy is that this clock will supposedly have the power to stop time, bringing an end, or at least a permanent pause, to the Discworld.
Happily, Death has seemed better-grounded in these last two books, so I’ve started enjoying his character more.In this book, we finally get a chance to learn more about the Auditors.
I expected this book to earn 4 stars up until maybe the last 25% or so, at which point I started to lose interest in the story.
Maybe a re-read would help :)Having said that, there is much to love in the quirky humour and the characters:* The History Monks who manage Time and keep it all in balance* Lobsang Ludd, the thief of time who is sent to the Monks when the Thieves Guild can't control him* Lu Tze, a humble sweeper who takes on Lobsang as his apprentice* Jeremy who is building a very special glass clock* Lady LeJean, an auditor in human form* Susan, grand-daughter of DEATH, who is always fantastic* DEATH himself of course, life is never dull when he makes an appearance on his horse Binky* The FIVE horsemen of the Apocalypse - DEATH, War, Famine, Pestilence and Ronnie* Mrs War, who has domesticated War* Igor - don't you just love an Igor?* Chocolate used as a weapon of mass destruction
A tad bit more complicated in plots than the usual Death books but I quite enjoyed it still. The highlights would be the horseman of the apocalypse and baby abbot. Bikkit!
This is one of my favorites because there's so much going on: Lobsang Ludd and Lu-Tze solving the mystery of the end of time; Susan Sto Helit being drawn back into her grandfather Death's world once more; the Auditors making another attempt to destroy humanity, but in so doing they come a little too close to being human themselves.
Here, each of these characters is flawed in a way that balances their gifts and, I think, gives them endearing imperfections without taking away the fact that they are extraordinary at what they do.This isn't my favorite of the Death novels; that's a tie between Hogfather and Reaper Man. But it's a close third, thanks mainly to Lu-Tze and his Way of Mrs. Cosmopilite, which gets me laughing every time.
Tempus Fugit15 November 2017 It's funny because I was planning on making this the last of the Pratchett books that I would read only to discover that I really enjoyed it, which means that I might consider reading a few more just to continue to add them to the list of books that I have read. Okay, maybe I am going to be a little disappointed when I get the the next couple of books, but a part of me does want to read Going Postal because, well, a book with the title 'Going Postal' does grab my att
What we learn about the sweeper is that not only can he get into anywhere, but that he knows quite a lot as well, namely because nobody really pays attention to somebody sweeping the floor with a broom.
It's like walking into a bank wearing a suit – nobody ever questions somebody wearing a suit because if you are wearing a suit then you must be a respectable person (which is why men in suits end up getting away with a lot of things that us plebs generally don't).
Sure, Accountants, and even auditors, have their place, but like the Discworld, they have that really bad habit of sucking all of the joy out of life.
This might just be the best pratchett book ever im calling it
La historia de amor más bonita jamás contada. Literalmente.Reseña en Fábulas estelares.
What I thoroughly enjoyed:1. Death2. Susan3. Scenes with the other Horsemen of Apoc4. Chocolates5. The last third or quarter of the bookMy favourite bits are Susan as kindergarten teacher, any exchange among any of the Horsemen (hilarious) and the bits with chocolate. HAHA.The above more than made up for the meandering first half-ish part of the book. And I couldn't (in the beginning) care less about the monks or Lu Tze until at least half way past the book (did a fair bit of dragging my eyes across the page :p).
In many ways Thief of Time is the definitive work of the later Disc period, here is a book that blends pop culture, philosophy and the observation of society with humour, both dark and silly, to hold a mirror up to human behaviour, explaining why we do the things we do, pointing out how things can be done better and there's a stream of genuine goodness to counteract the inherent selfishness of the species that seems to provide cause for hope, at least in the mind of Pratchett, in the face of the dark things that seem to occur on repeat - war, intolerance, greed etc.The mythical sweeper of time that has appeared in smaller roles in other Discworld novels gets his own story, one about how he is able to control The Matrix, to manipulate time to ensure the right events take place in the right moment.
Excellent book.
It's up there in my top 5 Discworld books.
Lu-Tze is my second favorite character, after Sam Vimes.
I should've known better, having read several of Pratchett's books by then.
As usual, the pacing of the story is excellent.
There's no real lag, and though there are several storylines going at once it is not difficult to keep up.
As with most other Discworld stories, each character that's introduced plays an important role..
The more I read of this series (and I started with "Going Postal", which is (I think) book 27 or 28 and have bounced around since then..
The 26th installment of Terry Pratchett’s Discworld series finds many characters quite literally being a Thief of Time from certain points of view, yet only one can truly change history.The Auditors of Reality attempt once again to organize the universe by getting rid of life by literally stopping everything by having a clockmaker construct the perfect clock.
And while these heroes race to save Time, the Auditors of Reality begin to learn about what it means to be human and that sudden immersion probably wasn’t the best way to do so.Thief of Time follows a new pattern by Pratchett in which he focused more on plot and story structure, instead of jokes that string along the story.
This has to be avoided at all costs, even if it means playing with different times / events / eras / ...As is custom, there must also be humour, although on a whole I found a little less dominant compared to previous Discworld novels I've read, not in the least Reaper Man, for example, or Hogfather.The cast is quite varied, with the four, eh, five Horsemen of the Apocalypse, Auditors who learn to become human and what it takes to be "human", Nanny Ogg (one of the witches in the series), some Chinese philosopher (well, he's formally a sweeper, which is an undercover activity), a yeti, Death, Death's granddaughter Susan, and several more.
After 20-something books, you need to take a short rest from a certain universe, if you want to get anything done with your reading schedule.It's easy to fall into the Discworld series and never surface again, especially as at this later part of the series there seems to exist a creative high that permeates every page and every line.I've come to a point in reading this series in which it's hard to call favorites.
The nature of Discworld time becomes apparent and we are treated to a story that features some new elements of this ever surprising world, and some old, woven in there for good measurement.
...This actually worked for me.
It's exciting, and a little weird, and doesn't have too much of the characters I consider gimmicks (though the Auditors, in a storyline entirely too drawn-out, definitely do their best to take Death's spot).
The monastery is ridiculous, but except for the abbott, it's not taken so far that it ceases to be funny.And I think the time concept is poorly explained, but it's engaged with in a way that feels like a fairy tale, and so I'm fine with the phrasing and lack of clarity.I don't know that I can say this is a good book - but at least it's one where I can faintly see why people appreciate Terry Pratchett.
Still, it features Susan, and Susan being a teacher, and Susan is one of my favourite things about the Discworld.
The History Monks work better for me in theory than in execution - there's only so many times you can read reincarnation jokes where the Abbot yells "WANNA BIKKIT" in between spouting deep philosophical thoughts before it gets old and you just want to get on with the story.
That said, there were definitely some fun moments involved there, namely where the manipulation of time was concerned.
So while it's not one of my favourite Discworld books and it's probably not even one I'd recommend reading unless you're a die-hard fan, it's still pretty fun though a little slow to start.
Terry Pratchett was probably the greatest philosopher to ever live. From Wen the Perpetually Surprised to the martial arts of sna-fu and okidokdi to the Auditors trying to understand Art through measurement, Pratchett entertains, bewilders and enlightens.
Abandoning at p. 173Idk I'm just bored and life's too short.
#readathon18 Ένα αστείο βιβλίοThe first book by Terry Pratchett I ever read, more than a decade ago. I remembered almost nothing and wanted to re-read it. I always struggle a bit to get into Pratchett's books at the beginning, because the plot feels too disjointed for me. But once I get into them, his books are amazing and that's why he's a joy to re-read. I want to try to read more of his books that I haven't read and re-read the ones I have but don't remember well.
It is easily my favorite book of the DEATH series and that is saying something after my feelings towards Mort.
I wish that I was an interesting enough person to make everyone sit down and immediately start this series just to get to read this book for the first time.“Jeremy tried to be an interesting person.
I mean, just tossing Quoth in there a couple of times was just bad parenting by Sir Terry.“Sometimes I really think people ought to have to pass a proper exam before they're allowed to be parents.
I can only hope that some of my favorite characters recur in other books outside of this series so that I can see them again.
but as time has passed, his style had become far more plot driven and far less interested in the humor.
I don't recall laughing out loud a single time while reading, though I did find much of the History Monks bits to be quite entertaining.Though they claim this is on of the "DEATH" books, Death plays a very small part, taking a backseat to his granddaughter Susan.
Susan has quite a knack for saving humanity.Then we have Jeremy, the clock maker...
Though Death and Susan are among my favorite characters, they always end up in my least favorite books.
"Wee Free Men" is more YA situated, whilst most of the rest of the Discworld series is directed at adults (or so I've read).
I read that some of Pratchett's influences are Shakespeare, Tolkien, Wodehouse and Lovecraft.
Despite being momentarily stunned by bizarrity (I know that's not a word, but here it fits) of the book at the beginning, there were several reasons I enjoyed this book tremendously.1) Death.
Love his companions Death of Rats and Quoth the Raven.
Well done!I've read that Pratchett employs some religious satire in his works (amongst other satire) and instead of finding this disturbing as a devout Christian, I rather found his ideas refreshing and thought-provoking.
EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENS, STAYS HAPPENED."What kind of philosophy is that?"THE ONLY ONE THAT WORKS.Thief of Time is the fifth and final book in the Death sub-series and the 26th Discworld book in published order.
Once it starts it will stop time, making life more predictable and the paperwork much easier.
Death gets a sense their plot and, while he cannot interfere directly, he volunteers his granddaughter Susan to look into the issue.
The monks send out Sweeper Lu-Tze and his apprentice to save time...
if there's any time left.I am truly impressed at how complicated this story was and how well it's pulled off.
Usually, if a series has more than a dozen books in it, I don't keep up with it.
Most of the time it is too unwieldy and just plain boring.
Not so with Terry Pratchett -- his inventiveness and biting humour keeps me coming back for more.
This one, Pratchett looks at the nature and elements of time, and wraps it all up in a pretty shiny bow for his readers.
This time, the Discworld itself is in peril from the Auditors, who find that the universe would be much more tidy if humans and their ilk would stop cluttering up the place.
