https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50725.The_Pursuit_of_Love_Love_in_a_Cold_Climate
You fall in love with three different men who are completely wrong for you in completely different ways, but who have in common disrespecting you, ignoring you, treating you as a convenience, and not caring two pins for who you are, but all you can say is, ‘Oh they are simply awful’- which is also what one says about someone’s dress at a ball.
But while I still believe it is all that, I did not feel as though I should not be reading this book, or as though I was alienated from the characters in any way.
Of course, the eldest of these 6 Mitford sisters was Nancy who wrote these two books and who was partly Linda in the first novel, The Pursuit of Love.
The three love stories are told in an Austen-like prose with the time between the two world wars as backdrop.
SECOND BOOK: LOVE IN A COLD CLIMATE (3 STARS)Fanny is still the narrator but her subject is Polly instead of Linda in the first book, The Pursuit of Love.
I oftentimes feel that being bisexual is not funny, that’s probably why.Two books that are worth reading only if you like English novels about British aristocrats in the 20’s or early 40’s.
How is it possible that I didn't hear of Nancy Mitford before the age of 29?
I read these novels like I ate candies when I was little: with intense pleasure, and very slowly, to make them last.
The tepid back cover copy and fluffy introduction surprised me; these are witty books about rich people, yes, but they deal in serious issues.
Mitford is interested in how women compromise their power when they get married, or divorced, and what separates a prostitute from a mistress, and what poverty drives people to do.
She's also masterful, in a way Austen doesn't even approach, at capturing childhood.
Hardly any of one's friends in England had ever even heard of India before we went there, you know."And so go Nancy Mitford's wry yet sparkling satires The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate: always affectionate, always amused fun-poking at the ridiculous self-importance and insularity of moneyed upper classes in Britain between the Wars.
The characters, including narrator Fanny Wincham and her vast brood of Radlett cousins, their vague matriarch Sadie ("I shouldn't care for one of my girls to look like that," Aunt Sadie said, "You'd think she had something on her mind") and bombastic patriarch Matthew, who hunts his children with hounds, might seem outlandish were they not all very lightly fictionalized portraits of the members of Mitford's own family.
I'm rather a fan of the Mitford Sisters--- however not?
They gave us...hmmm...a duchess, a Communist, a fascist, a novelist, a lesbian poultry-breeding magnate, and a sister who either slept with Hitler or imagined she did.
And Nancy Mitford (the novelist sister) gave us..."Pursuit of Love & Love in a Cold Climate"--- hilarious, sad, wickedly clever, darkly witty, and perfect for all those of us with serious Bright Young Things fetishes.
"Pursuit" and its companion piece will be on my permanent shelves--- lovely tales to read, lovely tales to read aloud.
she's everything i want in a novelist: clever, funny, sly, light-handed.
'love in a cold climate' is so funny that i was reading it at a bar in chicago and i laughed out loud and then began reading passages from it to the woman (a stranger) sitting next to me at the bar.the woman liked it (and me) so much that she soon tried to set me up with a man who she'd been in love with for years but couldn't be with (for reasons that escaped me).
her thinking: if she couldn't have him, she wanted him to have someone wonderful.
There is a lot of comfort in them, but mostly I admire the way in which Nancy Mitford explores the idea of family, of society, and of the self, and how loneliness operates in a world where you are always being kept track of.
I think, actually, that these books can become quite melancholy, albeit always with a smiling face.
Mitford's wit is pretty much unmatched, except by Evelyn Waugh, one of her very best friends, and like Waugh her pre-WWII novels are much less cynical than her post, so read those first.
This movie Love in a Cold Climate (2001– ) is available at You Tube.Cast:Elisabeth Dermot Walsh as Linda Rosamund Pike as Fanny Megan Dodds as Polly Javier Alcina as Juan Lopez Sara Weymouth as Polly's Nurse John Light as Christian John Hopkins as Robert Parker Zoe Waites as Lavender Davies Christian Coulson as Matt John Wood as Lord Merlin Daniel Evans as Cedric Samuel Labarthe as Fabrice Anthony Andrews as Boy Tom Ward as AlfredSheila Gish as Lady MontdoreRupert Frazer as Lord Paddington Alan

These books were mildly enjoyable.
In the first book, "The Pursuit of Love", she keeps talking about how charming her friend Linda is.
Linda just seemed silly, unambitious and aimless, and just as bad a judge of character as her friend Fanny, the narrator.
In "Love in a Cold Climate", a beautiful young heiress has a decidedly weird response to being molested, while the narrator's beloved husband, when he is included in the narrative at all, can be counted upon to make some belittling comment to his wife regarding her clothing, her intellect, or her character.
Every bit as funny, effortlessly cultured and filled with insights about politics and social class as you might imagine (presuming you've heard of Nancy Mitford).
Other intriguing detail includes casual mentions of the books on an upper-class girl's shelf - George Grossmith's Diary of a Nobody, Round the World in Forty Days, King Solomon's Mines and so on.The number of quotable passages is half the length of the book - one I liked:"The worst of being a Communist is the parties you may go to are - well - awfully funny and touching but not very gay...I don't see the point of sad parties, do you?
Read only the first novel, The Pursuit of Love, and fully intend to make the acquaintance of the second at some point in the future.
Mitford gives the novel an interesting dynamic by mixing up expectations: the rather banal storyline is set up as if it is remarkable, enthralling (though the title tells you about all you need to now) while the sublimely ridiculous actions and sayings of the characters are treated as mere unremarkable, completely expected.
I was going to review the two novels seperately, but having now read both stories, I prefer the book as a whole. Naturally, the prim Polly -with her older man and overbearing mother- is close to my heart, while returning characters have acquired a familiar charm.Curiously, this book kept talking to me about George. Another magical book from Rebecca! I tell you, the girl is a witch. ;)
This is the story of Fanny and her vivacious cousin Linda, a domestic drama nestled between two world wars that explores, among other things, the fragility of childhood, the transient nature of our relationships and the eccentricities of Englishmen.
She will hardly change your life but Mitford’s writing (the lives of these children seeming to scarily mirror her own cloistered upbringing) is hugely entertaining – and isn’t that the point of reading after all?
Mitford celebrates the innocently posh and unconventional folk in life and, particularly to an English girl like myself, gives us a good chuckle here and there.
Children in large families tend to invent their own universe, sometimes good, sometimes not so, often based on misbegotten facts or one’s vivid imagination.
Mitford does such a wonderful job of showing the lives of this family which, by the way, happens to be wealthy.
“Poor old thing, I suppose she likes him, but, I must say, if he was one’s dog, one would have him put down.” It's not their fault they’re rich and they don’t really notice, any more than being poor or middle class children know their economic status.
They really only know their own lives and usually tend to be happy.
I'm glad I finally got around to reading this, years after I picked up this battered copy in a used bookstore somewhere.
It was an amusing and charming bit of fluff, notable mostly for how blithely Nancy Mitford writes purely to please herself.
The dialogue is frequently the best of the show, and it's absolutely worth reading all the way through The Pursuit of Love and halfway through Love in a Cold Climate to finally arrive at the bits with Cedric in them.
I had to read bits out loud to people, interrupting them if necessary to make them listen, because I had to share the joy.
Perfect reading when you're snowed in for 2 or 3 days. These are witty books with well-drawn characters. There's a kind of scary emotional distance sometimes, especially in The Pursuit of Love. (Some ending! Don't want to spoil it so will say no more.) I adore the narrator of both stories. The plain girl who is all-knowing, all-seeing, all-understanding (although probably not all that plain). If you sometimes want to cast and costume a Masterpiece Theatre series in your very own head, these books will give you excellent material. The descriptions of clothing and manners are marvelous. Brit-o-maniacs, take note.
These books are soo funny! Particularly if you are a Historical Romance reader and are familiar with the goings on of the London Season. These stories, however, are NOT a romance although both novels deal with all the business of getting married and 'finding love'. But even with all the memorable characters and witty dialogue, the stories are very real: there are unhappy marriages and unhappy people.
Two novels that allow one a look into the rather naughty lives of the awfully well bred and wealthy in the world of the 1930s and 40s.
It's a less trenchant Cold Comfort Farm; a novel that pokes fun but doesn't go quite so far as satire.Personally I prefer The Pursuit of Love: it's funnier, more clearly structured and rather touchingly romantic (albeit perhaps a bit soppy for some tastes).
Love in a Cold Climate is a bit more risque (think inappropriate relationships between adults and kids; not-so-subtle innuendo about buggery) and less focused in its scope.
Although the story is told by Fanny, the central character is Linda.
Alfred and Fanny have a successful marriage and go on to have many children.With her marriage on rocky ground, Linda meets Christian Talbot, a dedicated Communist.
In "Love in a Cold Climate", the story is again told by Fanny.
Polly and Fanny, close in age are close friends.A relation of the Montdores, Lady Patricia is married to Boy Dougdale.
Ironically, Boy and Cedric become infatuated with each other.--------------------------Although the characters in "The Pursuit of Love" and "Love in a Cold Climate" are shared, the stories are quite different.
The first story, The Pursuit of Love, was a witty, slightly naughty tale of Linda Radlett who pursues the greatest love of her life through several marriages and one lengthy affair.
The second story, Love in a Cold Climate, is about Polly Hammond, a friend of the Radletts, and it creeped me out big time.
Other than the actual subject matter, the second book was written just as well as the first with witty commentary, terrific descriptions, and lovely pacing.
I can see several characters from other books who were inspired from Mitford's works.
Great humor and tremendous sadness mark the characters and it is clear this is an extraordinary family, as is the entire Mitford clan in real life.
The Bolter is very entertaining as a character -- and it's clear why bolting, not mothering, was her strong suit.
For Anglophiles: the antics of an eccentric aristocratic English family, set between the world wars and first published in the 1940’s.
This is amusing and mostly lighthearted, but there are serious overtones.These novels are based on the author’s own experiences (Nancy Mitford was a "Bright Young Thing" of London Society in the 1920’s) and they read very much like a memoir; I had to keep reminding myself that they were fiction.
I think the first book alone would have been unsatisfying, but the two together have more substance.I particularly enjoyed the Radletts’ habit of "exclaiming", which so cheered Fanny.
Nancy Mitford is one of the greatest British writers.
I love all her books (including her great historical bios), but those two, which follow each other, and tell the stories of the same characters, are especially wonderful.
Based more or less loosely on Mitford's memories of her own family, they recreate an almost mythical (for today's readers) excentric England, but with more than just flair: there is a lot of emotion behind the humor and irony, and you can feel the torments and aches the characters are going through, even when they smile happily.
A classic of 20th century English literature and a glorious read. Captures the essence of English Society after WWI in the slightly crazy time before WWII. Shows how good writing can be, detailing the lives of two sisters from an upperclass family, and the very different choices that they made. Nancy Mitford based these two novels on her own family, and did it brilliantly. To see the full review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/content_58364...This was also turned into a fairly good PBS miniseries.
This book is actually two short novels centered around the same characters and set in England between the Wars. Both are told in first person by aristocrat Fanny Radlette who shares with her readers the activities of the Montdore household. The novels teem with biting humor and eccentric characters. For example, Uncle Davey writes the names of people he hates on slips of paper and puts these papers in drawers in accordance with a supersition that the named person will die. With biting humor, Mitford does a great job of satirizing upper crust British society. A fun read!
LOVE LOVE LOVED these two books. I'd heard about them for years but figured they'd be ... dull or obvious or i don't know what. Finally read them and loved them. They're a little dotty and rambling, like Angela Thirkell, but wonderfully written with wonderful "sketches" of characters ... like Angela Thirkell.These were like a very good pastry, easy to eat and sweet and fun, and when you're done you don't feel overfed or over sugared, you feel just right and want more.
Loved these. A bit more madcap than Evelyn Waugh, but more grounded in reality than Jasper Fforde.I made the mistake of reading Love in a Cold Climate first. Definitely able to enjoy it, but a few of the references (Hons) and characters (Sauveterre) are more easily understood if one has read The Pursuit of Love first, darling.By the way, M.F.H. stands for 'Master of Foxhounds'.
This is hard to categorize, a silver fork comedy of manners with an autobiographical component. Nancy Mitford makes out the family to be rather higher on the rank hierarchy than hers really was before the extraordinary marriages of her sisters; the first half is highly entertaining due to the idiosyncratic characters.
My inspiration. I think my favourite bit is when Farve goes to see Romeo and Juliet and it isn't a success because he cries copious amounts the whole way through. "It was all the fault of that damned padre," he said then decided the nurse was also to blame. "She was probably an RC too. Dismal old bitch."
Cold Comfort Farm, P.G. Wodehouse et al. are in good company with these 2 treasures. Admittedly, the more you know about the era (the Bolter, the real life Mitfords, Bloomsbury and WWII England) the richer the novels will be. However, it is not necessary in the slightest, since the books stand up on their own- very well indeed. Perfect.
