https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3197743-essays-on-the-gita
First, the text of Gita is of such vast ambition and scope that one cannot claim to fully grasp its subtlety; the questions asked in Gita are not mundane or trivial, they penetrate deep into the fundamentals of human existence; the laid out path to redemption is not an easy cop-out to breed a mental or intellectual self-righteousness, it makes exacting demands on will, intellect and faith of one’s character; it is a truth not to be grasped in mind but to be lived in spirit and life.Second, the book itself is a commentary on the original text.
That way one gets an idea why The Gita is considered the most important book of the Hindu religion.
It was not a very easy read as explanation of theological construct is more theoretical exposition.
If one labors through it, the book does give a reasonable overview of the message of the Gita without over simplifications.
I stress the open mind because the theological constructs such as the 3 aspects of God (incidentally Aurobindo links this to the Biblical construct of Father, Son and Holy Spirit), concept of Avatars, nature and God, three Gunas etc.
The main theme of the book is to show evolution of human being from ordinary, elemental plane of consciousness to God level consciousness. For this the process is first leave the fruit of your karma, then gradually sacrifice all of your karma to God. Your body, mind, intellect, ego everything are of nature, which is subordinate the Supreme Purusha. So, think all works of Him too. In this way one will be liberated for the cycle of death and life.
"Essays on the Gita" is one of the books in the secondary bibliography of my free ebook on comparative mysticism. "The greatest achievement in life" at suprarational.org/gail2012.pdf has been reviewed on Goodreads.
The Bhagavad Gita re-written for the modern mind, by one of India's greatest seers. To read the Essays on the Gita is to experience the message of Krishna and fall in love with Him and his Lila.
In my opinion - best book on metaphysics of spirituality ever written.
Wow ! What an amazing commentary on Bhagvad Gita ..... Must read this book to know the real message by Gita to whole mankind.
