https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248482.Enna_Burning
This was soooo good. Much darker than The Goose Girl, but it worked really well. I love the character of Enna and seeing her struggle and be faced with so many obstacles, I was rooting for her the whole time. I loved The Goose Girl, but I loved this one even more.
In this somewhat downbeat magical fantasy, a sequel to the marvelous The Goose Girl, Enna (best friend of Isi from the first book) comes into possession of an old manuscript that teaches her the art of fire-speaking, magically starting and controlling fire.
At first it seems like a wonderful gift, but a couple of fairly major problems with this power soon become apparent to Enna.
Apparently fire-speaking is a really dangerous gift to pursue.
I also really enjoyed the next book in the series, River Secrets, so don't give up on the series if you liked Goose Girl but not so much Enna Burning.
I just wanted to.) I was really frustrated with the heroine from the first Book of Bayern (Isi/Ani) because she accomplished this incredible feat only to be defeated by the task in the second book (or so it seemed).
Also, I didn't really like some of the choices Enna makes in the beginning of the book.However, the second part of the book (from about where she gets captured on) was INCREDIBLE!
And I would have if I didn't have River Secrets sitting on my desk waiting to be read next!Let me just pay tribute to Shannon Hale once again.
The worlds she creates are fascinating to read about.
I had difficulty staying interested for this long and I had read the previous book and quite liked Enna's character, so if you haven't read The Goose Girl I really wouldn't suggest reading this to start out...Read The Goose Girl first so you have an idea of her style and her ability to reshape a preexisting fairy tale, and then if you enjoy it and wish the story could continue you'll happily trudge through the beginning of Enna Burning.P.S. I really like that Shannon Hale doesn't forget that her characters are people and therefore need to eat and drink and go to the bathroom and bathe and stuff...
Ok - the cute little baby prince helped this book scrape by with 3 stars!
:-) For the most part, I really did not enjoy this book.
If you deleted the words fire, burn and heat, you'd lose 2/3 of the book.
This would be a torturous way to die and no amount of writing about Enna's regrets at doing so, softened what happened.
(shudder!) As a story about Enna, it only rated 2 stars.
With the small sideline parts about Isi, Geric, Razo and Finn, it barely managed to make it to 3 stars.
It’s one of those series that has a special place in my dark heart that brings a little light and perspective to my world.Hale has made a beautiful world where the elements and animals have languages that people can grow to understand if they try hard enough.
What I love about this book is that even though fire seems like the must destructive language you can learn, it isn’t.
It’s very much a middle-grade read, but still enjoyable when you are older if you like to dream pretty things and wish that you could hear and understand the languages of the elements and animals around you.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram---I feel like I'm in middle school again.
This book was much less complex than the Goose Girl, Hale's earlier novel in the series... It had one recurring theme that ran tediously throughout. I felt the whole piece was rushed--that the language not nearly as creative as I know Hale is capable of; there was the constant description of how Enna felt when the fire overwhelmed her; and I can't say there were many twists of plot... Just one wildfire, raging through Enna and her forest, til it hit the shore.
Dark, disturbing, and very thought-provoking. You never know what kind of book Shannon will write next, which is one of the coolest things about her! The Full Cast Audio version does it justice, too, with good acting and good music composed for the book.
I was pretty disappointed in Enna Burning.
I just wanted to get on with a good love story and not hear about how she was trying to deal with this weird overpowering urge to burn things.
If it wasn't meant to be a love story, then it was also very disappointing as an adventure story as really not much happens til you're 3/4 of the way through, and then even that adventure is very short-lived and not very exciting.
i thought the remedy was kind of a lame scape goat that just amazingly solves both Isi's and Enna's problems in one fell swoop.
If you read it as a metaphor for addiction, it's more interesting and makes Enna a little more sympathetic, but it still makes for a boring book and my least favorite Hale heroine.
(That said, I should point out that if I were like her in a desire to stand out and be noticed, I might have identified with her more and liked the book better.) I mean, most characters with flaws go through ups and downs that are interesting to read, but Enna is just in a tailspin towards doom the entire book, and it's frustrating and a little boring to watch.
The Goose Girl was mostly a fairytale retelling; this book is a continuation of Bayern, but it does not revolve around a specific fairytale, and I think that enabled Shannon Hale to write with more artistic and creative freedom.
She's not one of these authors who spends the whole book trying to point a finger at some societal issue, and she never goes "after school special" either; instead, her story and characters reinforce themes: messages we as the readers can take away and apply to our own lives.
I was half hoping Hale would have Enna turn traitor and marry Sileph and have ruthless little babies, because he was fantastic.
It's the Gilbert Blythe fangirl in me that makes me love the sweet, steady childhood friend turned lover.The ending was very rushed and convenient, and I would have loved to see a more complicated and ambiguous solution to Enna and Isi's problems - but this solution pushed it safely back into the young adult section, I think.But these are the good kinds of issues, and they didn't take away from my enjoyment of the book.
My life seemed hopeless, and I was so consumed by depression that I thought my only options were to stay in this impossible situation forever (because no one would come rescue me), or to commit suicide to escape the pain and suffering.Emma's story about being trapped in a foreign camp and being so manipulated by Sileph connected with me on such a deep level.
But Isi's story about the trapped Prince and the dragon helped me and Enna to both actively make changes and alter our seemingly impossible to escape lives.
This is WAY more intense and disturbing than the first book, Goose Girl.
I would not recommend it for preteens or sensitive teens without a parent to preview it and discuss it with.
The romantic relationship she develops with a dangerous seducer is disturbing.
In the end there are good lessons learned about love and friendship and finding a balance between different "forces" in one's life, but much of the story is very dark.
Stories can be a great way to introduce kids to big issues in life, but be warned that this is not your typical fairy-tale variant for young girls.
I went into this book expecting a cute read, like all of the other Shannon Hale books I've read, but was very disappointed. Enna was almost disturbing with the over powering urge to burn. I did not even finish the book because I skipped through the rest of the book and was rather disturbed by what I saw there. Especially (view spoiler)[Enna falling in love with her captor (hide spoiler)]Overall I was very disappointed and will not continue to read this series.
I liked it, but there was way too much repetition and focus on Enna's desire to burn and fire's powerful force. Enna's ability to fire-speak overpowered the story and there wasn't much balance. I liked the beginning and end couple of chapters the best. A bit of a letdown after The Goose Girl.
While I really liked this book, it wasn't as good as The Goose Girl.
But I did enjoy it, and I like the way the story's going.The GoodI loved how Isi was in this book!
Also, the fire power was super cool, and I loved the way it worked.
(view spoiler)[I'm still trying to figure out if I like how Isi and Enna both have fire and water.
I really wanted to be connected to the characters.The UglyA lot of romance, like in the first book, and also hints at people wanting to "use" Enna.
But I think one of the main reasons I gave it the highest rating is because it contains a rare and much-needed exploration of the dangers of obsessive love/lust.
Enna's development of Stockholm Syndrome toward Sileph was unsettling and not at all pleasant, but it had a true-to-life quality that really struck me.
Yes, ladies, someone who spies on you, obsesses about you, and systematically alienates you from everyone and everything you care about, is not the man of your dreams.
Her relationships with her friends, Isi in particular, were lovely and at times heartbreaking when she felt she had betrayed them.
I had to bump this one to the top of my TBR pile, as it is the sequel to The Goose Girl.
Enna Burning follows Enna, who befriended Princess Anidori when Ani (also called Isi) was disguised as a goose girl.
In this book, Enna learns to talk to fire, as Ani/Isi talks to wind.
Enna is another ordinary girl who finds incredible strength within herself and through her friends and does extraordinary things.
After almost being consumed by the fire, Enna, with the help of two loyal friends, manages to find balance and live with her gift.
I find it interesting that Shannon Hale said this was her least popular book. I liked it just as much as goose girl. I like her story telling. i wish the books were longer and had more detail because the world and characters she has created it enjoyable. In both books there is magic. Their magic is being able to speak, whether to people of animal or elements. What I like about this is that there are consequences to the magic. There is a physical affect from using the gifts of speaking. It makes it more realistic for me
LOVE this second book in the series about Enna. Enna is a strong sassy girl who is a little torn between what she wants. It is hard to have a best friend with super powers and when she finds a bit of power in herself it goes to her head. Loved the growing friendship and danger and adventure in this book. I have read this 3 or 4 times and to my daughters. It is a little more violent then Goose girl. For sure a good teen read.
I couldn't put it down! I loved it so much - probably a little scarier than the first, but the adventure kept me flipping pages. Shannon Hale continues to amaze me.
With every good intention in her heart, Enna sets out to do her part in the war effort, spying on Tiran enemy camps and using her new-found power to burn to help her people.
How can you not love Isi--the princess who becomes a goose girl and learns how to fight and save her own life?
That said, much like Finn, I was even more captivated by Isi's best friend Enna.
So naturally Enna Burning became my favorite of the two books.
Wow I thought the last book was a nice light story, but this one seriously went way above and beyond. Much more plot depth, more character depth, depictions of mental illness in a completely natural way, a twisted relationship that is creepily accurate, a satisfying ending... can't wait to read (well, listen to) the next one!! I love full cast audio recordings
This second book switches gears from a very fairytale-feeling classic fantasy to something entirely new. A side character in book one steps into the spotlight when her struggles to contain the raging power of fire propel her into the midst of a war. Enjoyable, but also upsetting, the narrative is slightly more mature and 'teen' than book 1, with a gaslighting scoundrel of an enemy captain taking up a large amount of the runtime.
Enna Burning was an AWESOME book!!! Shannon Hale really did a great job tying in the two books. The suspense was gut-wrenching, and I nearly yelled when I read the romance between the evil Sileph and Enna. Thankfully, Enna and Finn made it out of the war hand in hand. Sileph is such an evil person.The romance, adventure, and war was wonderful. Great Job! I am about to start reading your third book, River Secrets.😄
**Finished again 8/18. Another re-read. I know lots of people consider this book a let-down after The Goose Girl and don't like it as much, but I adore this one almost just as much. Never gets old!I love this book as much on the re-read as the first time. That nostalgia is punching me in the gut.
I love this writer!
This was a great sequel to Goose Girl!!!
Shannon Hale does it again.
Another fabulous book filled with friendship, love and struggles.
I am always amazed how she puts such tough subject matter in her books but in a very well done way.
It is never cliche or cheesy.
It is the perfect balance of hardship and learning.
I really like Enna's development.
She was one of my favorites from the first book so it was very interesting to see where her story would take her.
Very much loved him.
Shannon Hale's elemental magic is such a different spin from the norm and I love it.
