https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/115491.Guerrilla_Marketing
It does not mean investing a lot of money."2- "Marketing is the art of getting people to change their minds or to maintain their mindsets if they re already inclined to do business with you.
People must either switch brands or purchase a type of product or service that has never existed before."3- "Guerrilla marketers do not rely on the brute force of an outsized marketing budget.
With this knowledge, you'll have what it takes to develop a creative marketing program, and you'll produce creative marketing materials."6- "Market primarily to customers, not to prospects.
Whatever you offer must be marketed...The third business you're in is the service business.
I read this book because it was recommended by a local web developer, and I had seen it referenced in business magazines like Entrepreneur and Inc. I didn't learn as much as I had expected based on its reputation, but that's probably because I've read several other marketing books that featured guerrilla marketing tactics.Marketing• Devote more than half of your marketing time to existing customers.Profits are the main numbers to pay attention to regarding marketing; not sales, responses, hits, traffic, etc.• 67% of lost business is due to failure to follow up after a sale.• Visual points are 78% more effective than aural points.• Practice “you” marketing: make every word about the customer (or website visitor).• It takes more than 2 months, and probably 6, to tell if a marketing plan works.• Frequency is better than reach.
Might be a good book. Good ideas and quotes but the author is bombastic and obnoxious. It turned me off from the positive things he had to say. Might finish someday. Probably not.
The good: lots of inspiration for lots of different ways to market a product or service. Up to the minute advice on blogs, podcasts, search engine optimization, etc. It is worth reading, at least skimming and bookmarking the areas that you want to include in your marketing.The bad: repetitive, too long, too many bombastic claims of untold wealth if you just follow this simple tautology.The ugly: apparently you need to buy the other 5,387 books in the series... makes the point on cross-selling existing customers by cross-selling the reader to distraction.
I only made it through the first 7 chapters or so before I had to return it to the library, and since I'm not yet starting up a business, I decided not to finish it right now.
However, the first 7 chapters seemed to really make sense, and it was a fairly engaging read, not dry.
I think this book is an excellent choice for people starting their own business and anyone who owns a small business and is looking for some good marketing advice.
I definitely plan on picking it up again, someday, when I finally start a business of my own!
Great for beginners
This book is most interesting in the world
If small business owners could read no other book, I would love to have them study Jay Conrad Levinson’s Guerrilla Marketing: Secrets for Making Big Profits From your Small Business.
Section two focuses on mini-media marketing, reviewing everything from personal letters to telephone marketing to classified ads.
Finally, he closes the book with a section on launching your guerrilla marketing attack.The tips and suggestions within these pages have been implemented by successful small business owners for nearly twenty years.
Implementing both humor and realistic examples, Jay Conrad Levinson has written a must-read for the small business owner involved in marketing (that should be all of them).
Serious waste of time unless you're totally new to marketing or just need a lot of simple ideas you could get from an equally informative and much shorter blog post or YouTube video.This book has some good strategies, but is basically just a verbose collection of ideas without much on execution.
You'd think this book would have a section on how to sell, but it doesn't: you have to read the Guerilla Guide to Marketing.
Though it covers other areas, the book reads like a free webinar about SEO from a company that has a push button marketing solution.
Когато говорим за герила, говорим за Левинсън – и мисля, че той, като баща на партизанската идея, може най-добре да обясни какво представлява тя.
Книгата е полезна както за студенти, които тепърва навлизат в света на маркетинга, така и за специалисти с опит, които вероятно ще открият, че въобще не са били наясно какво всъщност е герила.Доста от нещата, които Левинсън казва, вече сме ги чували – но от разстоянието на времето, когато guerilla се ражда идеите със сигурност са изглеждали новаторски.
Това не е вярно – Левинсън свободно говори и за бюджетогълтащи активности като TV и печатна реклама.
This book is well written and has solid insights.
The part I enjoyed the most were the real life examples, what I enjoyed the least was nearing the end it felt repetitive and I found my mind wandering a bit.
I picked up this book based on various recommendations however think I possibly should not have grabbed the 'Making Big Profits from Your Small Business' edition.
I did just leave a large corporation so these methods triggered thoughts on what we did versus his recommendations and how I could apply these to my every day life.
I have to be honest, I learned almost everything really important in the first 50 pages:Marketing is a commitment, a war, a long slog. If you can't commit to a campaign for at least 12 months don't even bother. You need to get at least 10 impressions before someone will *think* about buying from you.That was the key to me.Beyond that, there is an exhaustive list of various different kinds of media and mediums that one can use, and it is certainly helpful, but not revolutionary. The first 50 pages, though? Critically important.
Great book for helping to get the juices flowing with small business advertising. There are several tips that I have incorporated that have helped but many more that have "come to me" while I was reading and thinking about marketing and what else to do.It is about marketing harder and smarter -- not just spending more than the next guy. I've found that if you don't make marketing a conscious part of your business, you are doomed to a mediocre growth at best.
В целом весьма неплохая книга о партизанском маркетинге и его важности в современном бизнесе, особенно в малом и среднем.В этой работе автор перечислил большинство его принципов, но всё таки хотелось бы побольше конкретики, примеров кейсов и особенно описания самих инструментов партизанского маркетинга. В книге не хватило также и системности и более тщательного проработанного материала.
This book is packed with eye opening tactics of how an entrepreneur can take on the goliaths of business. I learned more about how to market a small business than I do in the classes I take now. Much help to the aspiring entrepreneur trying to build a foundation for his/her marketing knowledge.
Чесно кажучи мав значно вищі очікування - дуже слабенька книжка.Для мене все, що я прочитав зводиться того, зо партизанський маркетинг це на 70% НЛП і на 30% декілька інших, мало пов'язаних, між собою ідей.
This was good to get the small business entrepreneur to think outside the box. Don't know how relevant it would be today with the internet.
A must read for every marketing beginner out there, or any start-up entrepreneur :)
The end chart "200 Weapons of Guerrilla Marketing" may alone justify the price.
Ever wanted a book to tell you the definition of things everyone knows of, like what blogs and podcasts are?
Anyone who uses the internet today knows what blogs and podcasts are.
Jay will also enlighten you by telling you that cars speed by billboards quickly, so you will have just a short time to communicate your billboard message.
Jay says guerrillas dress sharply, yet he wears a sloppy turtleneck in his author's picture.
Despite the book's faults, it does get you to think about marketing and we entrepreneurs need that.
It gives some ideas, but for the most part the author sells himself and his other books, and expects you to magically know how to, for example "get an article published for free".
I don't know if it needs another revision, or it's just too much talk and not enough substance, but I felt let down by this book and my notepad felt, in the end, mostly empty.
I struggled towards the end and as I did, the author did too, things got repetitive and not at all patient.
A long book that will bring you a short amount of knowledge.
Good book for small and medium business owners, or to people who are new in the marketing field. In Guerrilla Marketing you will read a lot of different ways to market a product or service. You will find tips and tricks about blogs, podcasts, cold colling, SEO, product sampling, customer service, etc. What I didn't like is that it was quite repetitive and given the fact it was written in 2007 many things have changed. Still, it is a good book.
Hace mucho que no repasaba un libro tan práctico. Ya se le notan los años, especialmente en los temas de marketing digital, pero las herramientas siguen siendo las mismas.No es tan inspirational, pero si ya estás listo para empezar—aquí te dice cómo.
Started off quite strong but felt like it lost its way a bit by the midway point. Also covers a lot of obsolete or redundant information but I guess that's too be expected even if it has supposedly been updated since 1983
Kind of okayish if you are looking to understand the new age marketing tools and channels; I picked this up for marketing ( the art part, not the science part); does well in parts but more of a manual than a book;
Remains the basic handbook for small-business, non-profit marketing!
More applicable and helpful now than when it was writen!
Excellent ！👍NEVER a dull moment
Skaityti 2007-aisiais greičiausiai buvo naudinga, bet 2018 metais aktualumas ir naudingumas labai labai mažas.
For anyone who needs to market, who has no time or budget. A little dated, but some good principles.
Great introduction on marketing and a must read for anyone ever considering to start it's own business.
