https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16241167-young-men-in-spats
Reading Wodehouse is always a perfect antidote for depression, stress and boredom, as the wonderful world that the author creates in his stories through charming narrations involving loveable characters and hilarious happenings always acts as a magical restorative to the frayed nerves.
One of my favorite Wodehouse characters, Uncle Fred along with his nephew Pongo Twistleton makes their debut in one of the short stories featuring the Drones club in this anthology.
Yes, jolly good, this!
*nonsensical ejaculation!-cough-mutter* Another rollicking good time with the, ah, inane rich gentlemen of yesteryear - capital chaps!
*throat-clearing tick* as, ah, as penned by the prolific P.G. Wodehouse...Sir Pelham Grenville, "Plum" as we called him back in good old Dulwich.
Marvelous school that.
He made out well there, if I recall...a First XI cricketer, I think.
*wanders off in cloudy musings* Wodehouse...Wodehouse...Respectable Norfolk family, the Wodehouses, what?
And what a smashing good writer the old bean turned out to be!
huff!* but that it's a bunch of hogwash and claptrap!
Bunch of nonsense.
Perhaps you have been wondering if you should risk it and read some Wodehouse, but are afraid to start just in case you find that this is some sort of proof of what you have long suspected - that Trevor McCandless has no sense of humour and his advice is not worth a pinch of salt.
Well, all I can say is get your hands on this book and read just one story - Good-bye to All Cats.
This book contains avowedly some of the funniest Wodehouse stories about... well, young men in spats. Of these, three stories of Freddie Widgeon (who loves and losses girls at regular intervals), two stories about Archibald Mulliner (yet another of Mr. Mulliner's nephews) and the lone story about Pongo Twistleton's eccentric uncle Fred - Lord Ickenham - are absolute gems. They still double me up.
I adore PG Wodehouse, and have been reading and rereading his books at intervals since my early teens.
Took up this book with great hopes, but somehow this collection of short stories fell.
short somewhere.
The overall theme was same...young men trying to win their sweethearts by hook or by crook, often with hilarious results.
The vintage Wodehouse humor was there , but this time round I wasn't much affected.
it was just above average sort of book, though a couple of stories were really interesting.
I always prefer his novels to anthologies, Jeeves and Uncle Fred series being my favorites.

It took a bit of time, at least from this particular volume, to recognize the reasons for Wodehouse's pre-eminance as British Humorist.
I find that the greatest wit and humor comes with that one must work for; a sense that you have shared something with the author: bridged time and space and come to a coy little understanding.
Wodehouse presents little idiomatic tales which achieve the greatest challenge of any author: making pointless drivel seem as important in writing as it is in our everyday lives.

This wasn't my favorite style of Wodehouse. Young Men in Spats is a collection of short stories, but there were a couple of very funny chapters!
This is a set of short stories featuring members of the Drones Club.
The story about Freddie Widgeon trying to make a good impression on his girlfriend's family while at the same time tripping over, stepping on, and sitting atop of their dang collection of cats made me laugh out loud.
I also loved the story about Archibald Mulliner and how he wants to serve the less fortunate and goes down to Bottleton East to give bread to the masses.
I wish the Drones Club was real.
Add it to the list of literary-worlds-I-wish-were-real, Jeeves.
Very good, Madam.

The reader must be warned before reading Wodehouse, ANY Wodehouse. The reader should not be in area where out burst of laughter are frowned upon and the reader should be careful as to what they are doing while reading. For example: I would not attempt to eat, operate electrical or mechanical equipment, or shave while reading. It would be best to find a comfortable chair, sit down and prepare to enjoy one of the greatest writers of the 20th century.
I might have enjoyed this even more than the Wooster & Jeeves books. LOVED the last story, which was oddly disturbing (only mildly so, of course, which made it very surreal). Also appreciated the self-consciousness (again, MILD) regarding class issues. This stuff is too much fun and sometimes all I want to read.
FateTried in the FurnaceTrouble Down at TudsleighThe Amazing Hat MysteryGoodbye to all CatsThe Luck of the StiffhamsNoblesse Oblige Uncle Fred Flits ByArchibald and the MassesThe Code of the Mulliners The Fiery Wooing of Mordred
Wodehouse is delightful as always!
These eleven stories are quintessentially Wodehouseian, focusing on the foibles, romantic entanglements and other dramas that envelop the British upper class.
and Archibald, who is the star of two of the funniest of the stories of all.
One is "Archibald and the Masses," when, under the influence of his valet, decides to become a socialist.
When Archibald decides he must hear "the voice of the people" and his valet, Meadows, talks of the coming revolution:"Like in Russia, you mean?" "Yes, sir.""Massacres and all that?""Yes, sir.""Now listen, Meadows," said Archibald firmly.
Wodehouse excelled at the short story, and this tip-top collection brims with some of his finest and fruitiest.
It includes the well known classic (well known among discerning readers anyway) 'Uncle Fred Flits By', in which Pongo Twistleton endures a visit from his Uncle Fred, temporarily 'off the leash' and at large in the metropolis.
Uncle Fred's seemingly harmless plan to visit the suburbs results in the pair impersonating a vet, a mute parrot anaesthetist, and a Mr Roddis of the Cedars, Mitching Hill.
Another offering is one of my favourite Wodehouse stories, 'Tried in the Furnace', in which Wodehouse displays his expert knowledge of knock-about-cross-talk acts.
Oh every situation, in this collection of short stories, is absolutely over the top funny.
For instance, one story, detailing the trials of one young man trying to stay engaged, is followed by one chronicling the struggles of another young man to get his girl to dump him.
Though by far the best one involves a young man, an old man, a pair of frustrated lovers and some quite excusable meddling,oh yes, and some unauthorized entering.
These are some of his earlier stories, so there are not as many questionable words as in some of his other works.
Freddi, Pongo and other young men go through no end of scrapes while being in love.
Freddie is always falling in love at first sight only to foil his own romantic schemes, and others meet with various levels of success.
I only read one story per day to be sure I didn’t tire of the humour and spoil any that way.
This is my first time reading one of Wodehouse’s books of short stories, and the first that didn’t feature Wooster and Jeeves
These short stories tickled me pink.
I had to stop and chuckle while on the train.
Every one of the tales was a fabulous little bundle of laughs.
P.G. Wodehouse has some wonderful characters in this.
Especially Freddie Widgeon who seems to fall hopelessly in love with every woman he meets and against all the odds manages to cause catastrophic mayhem.
He seems to find a way of making a complete dog's breakfast out of every first time meeting of his true loves' parents.
You start to get geered up to be imbaressed for him.
While giggling with anticipation ay the same time.
I have a weakness for Wodehouse. This short story collection is from 1936 - a vintage period for Wodehouse. Most of the stories concern the doings of the less-than-brilliant young men of the Drones Club, with three of Mr. Mulliner's tales about his many nephews thrown in. The best of these stories, such as "Tried in the Furnace" and "The Amazing Hat Mystery" are absolutely worthy of five stars, but, as with any Wodehouse collection, some stories are better than others.
Not quite as funny as the two novels I've read, but still worth four stars. I checked off "Tried in the Furnace", "The Luck of the Stiffhams", Uncle Fred Flits By", and "The Code of the Mulliners" as ones to reread at some point. I'm especially looking forward to reading more about Uncle Fred.
I had an expectation too high. But it always feels like listening to an auntie gossiping about her nephews or neighbours.
His powerful vocabulary woven with hilarious similes and rib-tickling metaphors give pleasure not only to lovers of humor but also to lovers of high literary content.Plot: This book is a collection of 11 precious short stories in which young men of the men’s club called ‘Drones’ get into fights!
Tried in the Furnace:  Best friends Barmy and Pongo, fall in love at first sight.
However, there is a hulky and bulky competitor Captain Bradbury to give Freddie the chills and add obstacles in his expressway towards love.Learning for young men – When superior brawn is in competition, don’t look back.
Goodbye to all cats:  Young Freddie falls in love with a girl whose family is animal loving.
Young Men in Spats is a delightful collection, featuring a number of stories from the members of the Drones club (the various silly, not-overly-bright upper class Englishmen, of whom Bertie Wooster is the most famous), of Uncle Fred, and of Mr. Mulliner's nephews, are all delightful.
It features a marvelous interchange between Archibald and Meadowes, as Meadowes explains the downtrodden proletariat:  "...I have been a member of the League for the Dawn of Freedom for many years, sir.
I won't have it, do you understand."  "Yes, sir." All the stories are entertaining, and any Wodehouse fan will enjoy the volume.
Though Leave It to Psmith or one of the Blandings stories would also work.)
There's not a bad story in the bunch though not all of them are full-on "gut busters;" there are, however, three stories that, for me, are some of Plum's very best and had me frequently laughing out loud: "Goodbye To All Cats," "Archibald and the Masses," and "Uncle Fred Flits By." The third one stars probably my all time favorite Wodehouse character, Uncle Fred (aka Lord Ickenham) who drives his nephew, Pongo Twistleton, to near mental ruin with his escapades.
This is sadly the only short story that Uncle Fred appears in (and Wodehouse, to my dismay, only had him in four of his novels, including my very favorite, "Service With A Smile.").
Next moment Freddie was hareing off for a Collected Works of Tennyson.
Tennyson is soppy.
Don’t you think his girls are awful blisters?The Amazing Hat MysteryGood-bye to All CatsThe Luck of the StiffhamsNoblesse ObligeUncle Fred Flits ByI don’t know if you happen to know what the word ‘excesses’ means, but those are what Pongo’s Uncle Fred from the country, when in London, invariably commits.Archibald and the MassesThe Code of the MullinersThe Fiery Wooing of MordredUncle Fred Flits By and Good-bye to All Cats are gems.The heroines are a bit rough on the heroes in some of the others.Permalink:worldcat.org/profiles/Tom2718/reviews...https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
This is a series of self-contained short stories about members of a "drone's club", usually bookended by other characters narrating the events to their friends.
Because of the stories being about young, upper-class men, they were usually about the love lives of the individual characters, mostly with events going disastrously wrong, though there were a few unexpected twists in which things turned around in the characters' favour.This was incredibly funny in places, though the language in which this was written (in the 1920s) did not make this an easy read, and at times I was flicking back through a few pages to re-read whole sections.
In my search for books the name P.G. Wodehouse kept coming up again and again.
If a book or author keeps popping up in multiple sources then it is worth looking into.
Nevertheless, the name P.G. Wodehouse seemed to be everywhere.
I did a little research and discovered the Jeeves and Wooster series of books.
I am on the 5th in that series and am not disappointed.
There is always at least one story per book that makes me almost literally laugh out loud.
If you are looking for a mentally relaxing and thoroughly enjoyable read then choose this book or any other book by P.G. Wodehouse.
As I've said elsewhere, I'm generally not as fond of short story collections of P.G. Wodehouse as I am of his novels; purely a personal preference, as he was quite a master of the form at times.
And, indeed many of the stories in YOUNG MEN IN SPATS are excellent, particularly the famous "Uncle Fred Flits By." The American edition of the book, containing a dozen stories, has three golf tales (told by The Oldest Member) not in the British edition, and the British version (with 11 stories), has two not in the American edition.
(Including the first-rate "Trouble Down at Tudsleigh.")
