https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/920465.The_Law_of_Success_Volume_I
This is by far one of my most favorite books. I listen to the entire series on CD in the car. This series of books are one of the most referenced books in the genre of Self-Improvement.
Impressed with Hill, Carnegie commissioned him (without pay and only offering to provide him with letters of reference) to interview over 500 successful men and women, many of them millionaires, in order to discover and publish this formula for success.As part of his research, Hill interviewed many of the most famous people of the time, including Thomas Edison, Alexander Graham Bell, George Eastman, Henry Ford, Elmer Gates, John D.
As a result of these studies, the Philosophy of Achievement was offered as a formula for rags-to-riches success by Hill and Carnegie, published initially in 1928 as a study course called, The Law of Success.
Some great lessons, it was just a little hard to get into because it is written in language spoken over 100 years ago. Once got into it though i enjoyed it.
A must read for anyone who embraces Dr. Hill's philosophy. If you've ever wondered why some succeed while others fail, this book will answer that question. It'll also give you a step by step guide on how to become successful and A LOT more. Nearly every page is packed with vital wisdom and principles on how you can improve your life and become more successful.
Awesome! I can see Hill's influence in so many books that I've read. This could be well-described as the 'bible' of success principals. Aside of one comment he makes about evolution (which I reject) and some out-dated scientific information about electrons, this is full of wisdom- if applied, will give anyone more success in life.
After reading "think and grow rich" by Napoleon Hill I slowly started to become a fan of his work/philosophies.
Everyone said the classic text of law of success, along with think and grow rich, was his "best work".
Review:The book started off similar to think and grow rich, which consisted of deep words surrounding the overall topic of achieving your ultimate goal in life.
Continuing on, he began to write in such a great amount of detail, how "electrons shape the world." I read a page or two about the topic, and started to understand his main point, at least I think (little changes equal big results).
I was always a fan of Napoleon Hill, who in my opinion was the predecessor of Earl Nightengale and Tony Robbins (as well as others.) An excellent two volume book with the outlay and ideologies of how to become successful in your life. It is always good to periodically review and reread these self-help dialogues in order to ensure that you are on track or have gone askew from your original plan. Though the information in some aspects is dated, as it was written in the 1920s, the ideologies are very much so a strong basis for success.
It is amazing that this book was written in the early 1900s.
The author had access to some of the most successful people in America from that time period, and he was able to pull together some terrific insights based on that exposure.This is a classic book on self-improvement and achieving success, and should be read by anyone wanting to achieve success in their life.
There is definitely at least one concept in this book that anyone could learn from.
I still cannot believe that it is as relevant today as it was when it was written almost 100 years ago.
the principles are still applicable in the current times
unfinished
