https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310043.Good_Night_Little_Bear
It's kind of sexist, and it doesn't exactly portray good parenting (unless giving your child a giant slice of chocolate cake when you're putting them to bed is some new tactic that I'm not aware of).Plus, given the inconsistencies and odd little details in the illustrations, there are plenty of questions that children may ask while (or after) reading this book:"Mommy, can I hide under the kitchen stove?""Daddy, why does a bear need fur mittens?""Mommy, why do the bears keep a pot of sticky honey in the living room?
Did she carry it?""Daddy, why can't I have chocolate cake for a bedtime snack?""Mommy, is Father Bear actually Mike Pence?
Clearly it's a satisfying hobby and not yet another thankless chore she's been saddled w/ by virtue of her gender.And I LOVE how Father Bear shoos those "fat little rabbits" out of the Bear's garden.
There's more where that came from!"I'm a little peeved that Father Bear gives Little Bear a massive piece of chocolate cake just before bed.
And even more peeved that he then hands his son over to Mother Bear who has just now gotten up from her sewing machine and sat down on the couch.
My 2yo enjoyed this one. Always love the illustrations.
Mom read me this book that we borrowed from the library.
Little Bear and his papa have a funny goodnight ritual. This one has been fun, funny, and relatable for generations of kids.
My little brother laughed every time I read this to him. Thank you.
One of my favorites as a little kid!!
Reviews with SpencerCHOCOLATE CAKE!!!!
This is a highly captivating children's book, just right for its target audience and those a bit older.
This was, hands down, my favorite bed time story to have my Dad read to me when I was a young child. I re-read it for the 2018 reading challenge ("#25, a book you loved as a child").
I love this book because it brings back wonderful memories of reading with my dad.
Enjoyed this as a child. A favorite of mine.
This is an adorable bedtime story!
I have fond memories of my father doing the very same thing as Father Bear (though I don't recall it ever being at night, but usually during the day).
I recommend this special tale for your next bedtime read!Ages: 2 - 6**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
This is a very dear bedtime book for children to enjoy before bed (or anytime of the day) The little bear is getting ready for bed with his parents.
After he spends time with Mother, he gets on Father bears back for a piggy back ride to bed...then Father Bear pretends Little Bear is hiding.
(While all the time he's on his shoulders) The story takes you on a small adventure throughout the house until Father sees Little Bear in the reflection and 'finds' him.
An endearing story of parents interaction with their youngster...
something a human could do as well with their child...
My five-year-old son spotted this Little Golden Book in a rack during a recent trip to World Market. He loves the Sendak Little Bear and Little Golden Books. This book seemed like a good choice for him. The story is cute, but it is the artwork by Richard Scarry that carries this book. The setting is reminiscent of Sendak's illustrations in the Little Bear book, and the Sendak-based drawings for the LIttle Bear series. All in all, it is a great bedtime story for kids who still have bedtime stories read to them.
What a sweet book! Baby bear doesn't want to go to bed, so his father plays a silly game in order to comfort and amuse him. Most books about children struggling with bedtime seem to focus on the child discovering (or even being told by an adult) that his fears were hyper-emotional or unrealistic. This book is a rare gem because it shows a parent responding tenderly, playfully, and respectfully to a child's natural reluctance to go to sleep.
This book is great for children ages 0-4 years old because it is colorful and fun. When father bear takes little bear to bed, little bear hides from his father and makes his father look for him. On each page little bear is hiding in a new position until little bear tires himself out to the point of exhaustion. This picture book serves its purpose as a tool to get young children to sleep, but aside from that, I didn't find it particularly great.
Meh. The art is great, and the story full of joy, but I hate to have to give disclaimers after I read picture books. No, I will not be extending your bedtime just to walk around the house with you on my shoulders AND THEN FEED YOU CHOCOLATE CAKE! Seriously? Does no one in the bear household respect oral hygiene? Or a bedtime routine that does not result in a kid on a sugar buzz?
This book is not only charming, but became a bedtime ritual for my daughter and her daddy. It started out being read in her favorite blue chair every night and then grew into being acted out....her riding on his shoulders while he searched for her in all the places father bear searched for little bear.
I thought this story was cute... Until I imagined my kids behaving like the cub in the story! Once would be cute but when you have multiple kids who insist on being "cute" more than once... Let's just say I don't want to put any ideas in their little heads :)
My mom just found this to buy for my boys. This was a classic that she read to me when I was a little girl. It was so fun to read this again after all of these years. It was cool to re-remember the pictures after all of these years when I would turn the pages. Thanks, Mom!
I adored this book as a child. My daughter loves it too. We have to reenact the Daddy-looking-for-kid-on-his-shoulders scene all the time.Best kids' book ever, gender stereotypes and all.
I am sure this book affected my parenting...
One of my childhood faves!
This book just felt so cozy. It was about a bear who is getting ready for bed with his parents.
I remember the cover but just not the story
Read tally: 3 as of 8/5/15
Cute little book about a patient Papa Bear getting his little cub to sleep.
A simply delightful book for a young child. Each of our children laughed as they caught on to the jist of this book, which then led to more fun going to bed.
I really liked the drawings more than the actually story. Probably good for very young children. There's not a real point or moral to the story but overall good book.
