https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13362536-opal
Oh no.Oh no,no,no.Noooooooooooooooooo...........Just give me a moment.....I need to calm down!!!Sorry,where are my manners???Hello Readers!!! Why am I in this condition???I'll have to start from the beginning!! ------------------------------------------------------ Yesterday morning--- Okay,all of you,....stay calm,...stay cool,....take deep breaths....Here we go.....DAEMON BLACK IS BACK!!!!Yes,yes I know it's TRUE!!!Hmmmmmmmmmmm..................."I'm just a fool,a fool in love with you....."Ou
“ Let us help you.”And so Katy promised that they would help Dawson to find Beth.But Dawson’s not their only problem!!Blake is back too!!Yes Readers,you heard me right.Blake’s back and he wants their help.He knows where Beth is.It’s the same place where his friend Chris is being kept.He needs their help and they need his.And Dee,the sweet bubbly girl,has turned into a cold and unfeeling bitch.She wants to kill Blake.Dawson will not let anyone kill Blake as only he can lead to Beth.And then there are the Elders who can outcast Daemon for being with a human.And then there is the chance that all of this is a trap.
UPDATE: That ending was evil! On an entirely different hand, Daemon was indeed greatness in this book. More thoughts to come later...Original:
The author: Me *sobbing*: When life gives you cliffhangers...          ...Get depressed and start throwing shit.I. Am. A. Freaking. Mess. Authors are like medieval torturers reincarnated!! They rip out your HEART and then CRUSH it with their cliffhangers and heart-wrenching scenes! They lull you into a false sense of security and then dump you in a vat of 'feels' and endless piles of used up tissues and chocolate!! WHY?!I was so happy! I was ENJOYING IT! And..and then you had to go and-!*sobs an
The author:
Me *sobbing*:
When life gives you cliffhangers...
...Get depressed and start throwing shit.I. Am. A.
Freaking.
Mess.
Authors are like medieval torturers reincarnated!!
They rip out your HEART and then CRUSH it with their cliffhangers and heart-wrenching scenes!
And..and then you had to go and-!*sobs and curls into a ball* WHHHHHHHHHHHHHHYYYYYY?!!
*sniffles and dabs at eyes* I'll...I'll post up a review after a mourning period of three days...three days in which I will eat nothing but ice-cream and sob about cliffhangers in all their evil, sadistic glory!!*muffled sobs*_______(Pre-Read Review:)
WHAT THE DUCK?!I'm missing pages.. They're around here somewhere, I'm sure.This can't be...IS THIS THE REAL ENDING?!Review soon.EDIT 21/09/2012Is that.... Is that the real cover? 80 days.. Ijust have to wait 80 more days... I can do that, right?... RIGHT?! I can do it... EDIT 20/08/2012Synopsis is baaack EDIT 15/08/2012They REMOVED the synopsis?. What kind of sick people are YOU?. Don't play with my feelings like that!. :(EDIT 14/08/2012Conversation between Jennifer L. Armentrout and I a while b
WHAT THE DUCK?!I'm missing pages..
They're around here somewhere, I'm sure.This can't be...IS THIS THE REAL ENDING?!Review soon.EDIT 21/09/2012Is that....
Is that the real cover?
80 days..
Ijust have to wait 80 more days...
RIGHT?!
RIGHT?!
EDIT 20/08/2012Synopsis is baaack
EDIT 15/08/2012They REMOVED the synopsis?.
What kind of sick people are YOU?.
Don't play with my feelings like that!.
:(EDIT 14/08/2012Conversation between Jennifer L.
Armentrout and I a while back:
-------------------------------------------------------------No, but seriously..A THIRD BOOK?
OHMYGOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOD.
I can't even...I don't even have the second one yet!.This will be MINDBLOWING!
(I hope).And..
Did you read the synopsis?.WHO DIES????
WHOOOOOO?.I. CAN'T.
WAIT.
OMGOMGOMGOMGOMG Before anything else, DAEMON, I LOVE YOU SO MUCH, OKAY?
I DARE YOU TO BE MORE PERFECT!Now...I intended to write a review for this, BUT, I CAN'T...First, it's impossible to write one without abusing the spoiler tag.And second,   I JUST CAN'T  I've been through a whirlwind of emotions.
*I SMILED.*I LAUGHED.*I GIGGLED.*I FELL IN LOVE.*I CRIED.*I GOT ANGRY.*I HELD ON TO MY SEAT.*I FELT KATY'S PAIN.*I FELL IN LOVE WITH DAEMON EVEN MORE.*I GOT PISSED.*AND THEN I CRIED SOME MORE.
Okay, so I'll leave you with that.
Because I'm still shaking as I'm typing this review.
Holy bananas and mother of nasty cliffhangers,why WHY WHY DID THIS HAPPEN??I'm hurt and angry and shocked and confused and cursing shamelessly because I.will.end.you.Blake.you.sick.bastard.And I will enjoy it.  “I tilted my head back against his shoulder,wondering how he'd gone from douchebag extraordinaire to this...this guy who still infuriated me but also constantly surprised and amazed me.To this guy I'd fallen madly in love with.”  You didn't expect things to go smoothly for Daemon and Katy
Armentrout definitely knows how to make readers hold their breath and pray that shit is not going to happen (yeah wishful thinking,I know).I dreaded what every page was about to bring,there was constantly a knot in my stomach and bile rising in my throat,the anxiety was about to consume me.I cursed in a way I would make Deamon proud and wanted to toss my e-reader from the balcony (which of course I didn't for obvious reasons,but still) and I came up with some very creative ways to torture Blake,but nothing was enough.I never liked him,in fact I loathed him since Onyx but in this one,his constant presence and the way he stalked Katy made me wanna do some nasty things to him,and not the fun stuff.Katy has come a long way since the first book,and I kind of admire her for that.Sure she can be insecure and paranoid and stubborn as a mule,but thank God I don't want to strangle her anymore.
❝I love you, Katy. Always have. Always will.❞ I guess waiting until the 3rd book was worth it to love and cherish it so much. I guess disliking the first 2 and not really wanting to buy the rest, only now wanting to read the rest was worth it. I mean, JLA has done such a great job with all this. There's improvement in every book and there's improvement in everything—characters, plot, romance. I find it surprising that I rated this a 5 but, honestly, it deserves it. And I know that quote is the
And I know that quote is the most popular and most used but, I mention a lot of Daemon and Katy's relationship here so why not go along with it.If you've read my reviews for Obsidian and Onyx, you probably know I wasn't the biggest fan of either of them.
Everything's changed for her and maybe, because she isn't the same Katy from book 1, JLA managed to finally get me to love this series a lot more.
Since I completely now love Daemon and Katy together, I love how Dawson cares about Beth so much and making sure she's safe and okay.
The cover that keeps getting added for Opal is NOT the cover....
I just LOVE this book so much, I can't even write a proper review.
Have you read my 2012 End of Year Book Survey and noticed how half of the answers were of JLA and Opal?
Yep.) and God knows how she does it but every book of hers just keeps on getting better and better.
If we’re like this with OPAL, we’re all going to be mindblown by the time this series ends.
They’re definitely my favourite YA couple and I could continue reading about them always.
God, I want my own Daemon.
”And I learned that sometimes when someone says something so devastatingly perfect, there isn’t a need for a response. The words said it all.” ⤷Is been some time since I read the second book and I loved Daemon since the start and I still do, even more now. He’s even more dreamily than I thought it was possible.He’s definitely one of my favourite male characters of all time. And I say that without having read the next 2 book, I I have a feeling that when I’m done, I’m going to love him even more
⤷Is been some time since I read the second book and I loved Daemon since the start and I still do, even more now.
And I say that without having read the next 2 book, I I have a feeling that when I’m done, I’m going to love him even more (if that’s possible because holy hell he’s FUCKINGTASTIC).Where can I get one?
And this is me every time I read about some trying to break them apart and I know that I will have this reaction so much in the following books✦I didn’t expect to love this book as much as I did.
It had more romance, and an even sweeter and more dreamy Daemon, but less action.
So it evens out in the end.
The only action was the two escape attempts, which dont add up to many pages.But I really appreciate all the romance, and the focus on Katy and Daemon's bond.
I am still a bit worried about their fate, but not sad.
All the fuss over the ending had me worried, because I am really sensitive and I didnt want to cry.
But I didnt.
It ended up not being the kind of cliffhanger that makes me cry.
It's all I can do even if I have a feeling this will not be enough.In Opal there's all I ever wanted for Daemon and Katy and more.
Prepare yourself for a romantic Daemon.
She is perfect for Daemon and Daemon is perfect for her.Reading the book you will be overwhelmed by a flood of emotins.
You will think 'this can't be the end.
(view spoiler)[Using Jenni words there is a brutal cliffhanger ending.
Armentrout Italian Fanpage - Obsidian, Wait for You su facebook.11/30/2012My dear Opal, do not think I've forgotten you.
-----08/23/2012I can't wait until the release day.
I really THOUGHT I was prepared for this book's cliffhanger ending.
I was NOT prepared for this story's ending.
I'm devastated and anxious and want to read Origin right now!
Plus, (view spoiler)[I'M SO FREAKING PISSED AT BLAKE I COULD SCREAM!
(hide spoiler)].
I should have waited until Opal was released before starting this book.
Oh boy, I HATE CLIFFHANGERS!
I LOVE this series but could kick myself for not listening to all my Goodreads friends who warned me to wait until Origin was released before read this book.
After this ending, I'm in need of a major fluffy, fun, and steamy read.
It just wasn't, you know, great.But the real questions is: Was it worth staying up for?Well, let's recap my thoughts.
The Daemon that made my toes curl, that made me lose all functional thought, that made me want to slam him into a wall and do unspeakable things with.
I swear Armentrout wants to me murder someone just to get my hands on the next one.Other things to note: Blake.
(No need to spell it out for you people, you should know what I mean.) I think it suited Daemon and Katy in regards to time and how the plot panned out.
Noooooo!!!
I hate how the book ended!!
WHYYYYYY?????In the beginning , this book was simply awesome !
I was having such a good time with Deamon and his crazy ego !
"Don’t start with me, jerk-face.”Well, the most annoying person in this book was Blake(aka Biff, Bob ,Flake etc) and I really HATE HIM!
(view spoiler)[Despite the fact that he was a stalking freak he betrayed them in the end!I think that he betrayed them because Katy turned him down.
(hide spoiler)]After this ending we have to wait until summer for the Origin ???OMFG LOOK AT THE COVER !!!
Some of what I'd asked for in the first couple of books was brought to the table with Opal.
As much as I love the sexual tension in these books, if that's all there is, then the entire point of aliens and powers and all of that fun stuff is wasted.
I'm not sure what's slipped off with the last couple of books, but both of them started out sort of blah.
The first several chapters had me thinking that not even Daemon was capable of fixing my ongoing reading slump because the plot needed a serious boost.
Quick Review -Spoiler Free 4.5 STARSGenre: YA-PNR Honestly I do not know what to say as I read the end of this book....I was and still am in total SHOCKWhat does this mean??Will we finally get Daemon's Pov???Why? Why why why??? I am so mad right now.... I just can't.. I can't articulate...YES the book was good.YES it ends with a devastating cliffhanger.YES this was the best out of the whole series.READ IT! For more reviews go to http://realitybites-letsgetlost.blogs...
Toda la tensión, todo el drama y todo el conflicto resultó muy aditivo.Blake vuelve a jugar un papel vital en ésta entrega y, como muchos, yo también esperaba otro comportamiento de su parte.
Dawson también tuvo mucho que decir, aunque fuera de pocas palabras y en serio me gustó el conflicto interno de Katy sobre los asesinatos, sino hubiese sido así me hubiera molestado mucho.
Y, Daemon, bueno, me sonrojo.Opal lo tuvo todo y más.Bien, ahora, el final, ¿¡Qué mierda!?
Katy se va a quedar allí hasta que regresen por ella y todo será un desmadre.Ojalá y el siguiente libro fuese en parte narrado por Daemon, en serio, es el escenario perfecto.
With every book this series just gets BETTER AND BETTER.Don't mind me, just dying until Aug 27th rolls around...
Eeep! Loved it!!!
it was THAT good.Katy and Daemon are finally together...
I literally have no words to describe the incredible epicness of this book.
I could easily get rid of all of my books and only keep Jennifer's and just read them over and over again forever and never ever get bored.
So if you haven't read any of Jennifer's books stop reading right now and go and read them...
Daemon goes all romantic and he melted my insides into goo.
the best Jennifer L Armentrout book of all time...
and the best book I have ever read in my entire life.
Opal is the third book from the Lux series and by far the most complex in plot and characters.
I liked their dynamic, alternating with a lot of hot, funny and serious scenes, and I truly loved them as a couple because despite being different, they clicked so well.Katy will have to work a lot to get her old relationship with Dee back, because she was the most affected by her mistakes and bad moves.
I loved to see how much she valued her relationship with Daemon's sister and I know that she learnt a lot from the past events.As I said, this book is 2.0 in terms of new characters and plot twist.
The third buddy read with the one who loves Boys Before FlowersWe've done it!
I had that, I feel like if Fathima was like lets just call it quits I honestly would of, however she kept me going and we finished it!- The fact it dragged on and on it took me forever to read.- I still hate Blake.Will I continue with the series?HOW CAN I NOT AFTER THAT CLIFFHANGER!“I love you, Katy.
The group, including Dawson who has come back, are trying hard to figure out the truth of the DOD and the Daedalus program for the sake of everyone they know and who have died.
In the meantime, Katy and Daemon's relationship gets even better and you could see that they are falling even more in love.
My favorite was Katy and Daemon.
She can stand up for herself and fight her own battles, or try hard to.Daemon is also great.He is so kind and caring with Katy.
I knew that I didn't like that character but that was so bad!The way Daemon reacted and how Katy dealt with it was so unbelievable.
Dear god...I was not ready for that."...and sucked more than a brutal cliffhanger." I see what you did there------------------------------The mention of Daemon's name...
Moreover, I finally found my perfect version of Daemon and I need to share it with you:Opal starts exactly where previous book ended.
Armentrout is.One of the many things that I like the most about this series is the fact that even though this is YA genre, it all feels very mature because of the topics and problems characters are dealing with and the way they are dealing them with.
Daemon was still infuriating and his ego knows no boundaries and is super-huge, but we finally got to see his sensitive side too.
Daemon spoke in his language. The lyrical quality of his words made no sense to me.“What did you say?” I asked.“There’s really no translation for it,” he said, “but the closest human words would be, you are beautiful to me.”  I enjoyed so much this book!Daimon and Katy are so much in love and they express it with every possible way -although Daimon cannot say 'I love you'.Dawson is lost without Beth.Dee is bitter without Adam.Blake is back and he does not feel ashamed.Kate's mum waits Will poin
I enjoyed so much this book!Daimon and Katy are so much in love and they express it with every possible way -although Daimon cannot say 'I love you'.Dawson is lost without Beth.Dee is bitter without Adam.Blake is back and he does not feel ashamed.Kate's mum waits Will pointlessly.We learn more things about the mutations, the experiments, the teenagers that dissapear from the area.Totally X-Files feeling.And there is this horrible cliffhanger in the end!
I am so happy that I have the next book available:(view spoiler)[“I love you, Katy.
"I love you," I said, but Daemon...Daemon was gone.The 'I love you' was told a bit too late!
Look at that cover. Gorgeous. I love Daemon and Katy.Can't wait to read Opal.UPDATE: OK. Where is the cover? It was right there. I'm not crazy. UPDATE. They changed the date. Now it comes out on December 18th. Pleeease don't change it again. I can't wait anymore :(.
http://paperboyfriends.blogspot.com/2012/09/brace-yourselves-opal-cover-reveal.htmlLOOK AT HIM. LOOK AT HOW PRETTY HE IS. LOOK AT HOW I'M INCAPABLE OF TURNING OFF MY CAPS LOCK. 11/28/12:Paper Boyfriends: Cue Swooning: Opal Book Trailer Reveal.OH. LOOK AT THAT. JUST WHEN I GAINED THE ABILITY TO TURN OFF MY CAPS LOCK SUDDENLY THIS HAPPENS AND I FEEL ALL THESE FEELINGS. 12/6/12   Okay. That was the initial .gif freak out. I know. It was a little overboard. I understand. But seriously? SERIOUSLY? SE
LET THESE PEOPLE KNOW NOT TO KNOCK.Hint: (view spoiler)[They finally do it and I never do find out if it's like a glow stick or not but Daemon does refer to himself as a glow worm which made my heart happy because: Paper Boyfriends: Lux Nerd Girl Chat THANK YOU FOR MAKING ALL MY DREAMS ALMOST COME TRUE, ARMENTROUT.
Three books in and things are still getting real, shit's still happening and our story is moving forward.
Inching at times, only to leap at others, but we're still moving and Armentrout is not afraid to kill off characters, maim others, or just generally fuck some shit up.
