https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5308.The_Pearl
In his retelling of a Mexican folktale, Steinbeck tells the tale of a fisherman named Kino who finds the pearl of the world on one of his dives.
First published in 1945, The Pearl is the story of Kino, Juana, and their baby Coyotito who one day discover a giant pearl on one of their fishing expeditions.
Coyotito is bitten by a scorpion, and Kino and Juana rush to town in attempt to persuade the doctor to treat their child.
Just like the doctors, the pearl brokers attempt to swindle Kino.
Through this folk tale, Steinbeck conveys that money is the root of all evils in the world.
Every word, every description, every plot point, every twist - perfect!The Pearl is very short but very amazing.
Many of us think our life would be perfect if we won the lottery, but I think all of us could benefit from the lessons in this story.I picked this book now because I am on vacation in Hatteras, NC, and the locations along the sea seemed like they would blend well with my surroundings.
Many key scenes occur at or in the ocean, and reading this while my toes were in the surf added so much to the atmosphere.Do yourself a favor and take a quiet afternoon, get away to somewhere (a beach if possible), and read The Pearl.

“It was a morning like other mornings and yet perfect among mornings.”This novella opens with the simple contentment of a young Mexican pearlfisher: at peace with his life, wife, and baby, living in a tightknit community, and accompanied by the “Song of the Family” that plays in his mind.Pearls, by contrast, are a consequence of imperfection - possibly of pain or discomfort.
goodreads david writes this: I'm convinced that the general besmirchers of Steinbeck are fucktards, asswads, and vibrating pustules.it's nice as a reader (bad, i guess, as a reviewer) when a writer achieves can-do-no-wrong status.
i'm not grading a paper.
but it's steinbeck writing and he's filled with such love for mankind, wonder at nature, and joy at the strange eccentric and eclectic that, even if upon reading the remainder of his writings i find the literary equivalent of sex with goodreads david...
It wasn't ok; nothing about this was ok.The writing style is bad, though I haven't read enough Steinbeck to know whether his stilted, awkward prose is just an affectation for this work (in an insulting attempt to illustrate that his main characters are poorly educated), or whether he is just always like this.
Be satisfied with where you are, because trying only leads to failure." If his moral were something like "money doesn't bring happiness" it would be fine, but this is more insidious, because he never even gives his characters the option of being poor and happy.
The wealthy Spanish people live comfortably in their brick and plaster houses, exercising an iron control over the laws and economics of the town, while Kino and his ilk live in brush huts.
Certainly Kino seems to have achieved the American Dream when that pearl drops into his hand.
So Steinbeck could be saying that the American Dream is a myth, that the system is stacked against those who need it the most.
While breaking free of poverty is difficult to do and is a complex issue, I do not believe that people attempting to do so are faced with certain defeat, as Kino was.
Summoning songs of despair and songs of hope, soothing lullabies and wrathful incantations, this folkloric tale unfolds between oscillating paeans to love and hate, repression and freedom, good and evil and ponders about the thin line separating the power of dreams from blinding ambition.The ritualistic tradition of simply drawn characters and linear storytelling becomes even more distinctive in this novelette, in which Steinbeck’s unpretentious lyricism blends with the gist of thought and spirit.A pearl of unparalleled beauty disrupts the life of a humble fisherman and his family and leads them to a fatal outcome following the style of classical tragedies.
من اروع ما فرأت ، هل كانت اللؤلؤة تحمل اغنية الشيطان كما عبر عنها المؤلف.الفقير، الصياد الباحث عن ال
The pearl, John Ernst Steinbeck (1902 - 1968)The Pearl is a novella by American author John Steinbeck, first published in 1947. It is the story of a pearl diver, Kino, and explores man's nature as well as greed, defiance of societal norms, and evil. Steinbeck's inspiration was a Mexican folk tale from La Paz, Baja California Sur, Mexico, which he had heard in a visit to the formerly pearl-rich region in 1940. In 1947, it was adapted into a Mexican film named La perla and in 1987 into a cult Kann
It is the story of a pearl diver, Kino, and explores man's nature as well as greed, defiance of societal norms, and evil.
When Coyotito, an infant, is stung by a scorpion, Kino, his father, must find a way to pay the town doctor to treat him.
Shortly thereafter, Kino discovers an enormous, lucid pearl which he is ready to sell to pay the doctor.
The corrupt pearl buyers try to convince Kino that the pearl is the equivalent of "fool's gold" and they refuse to pay any more than incredibly low amounts of money.
اللؤلؤلة .. رائعة شتاينباك . وفجأة .. الآن بين يديك الوسيلة لتحقيق حلمك، وفجأة .. أنت الآن تنظر بعينين زائغتين، تنظر إلى الماضي وهو يختلط بالمستقبل، ما كان حلما سيصير حقيقة، تزدحم داخلك الخواطر فتعبر الأمنيات من الماضي إلى المستقبل وتختلط وتتداخل فيغدوا الماضي وهما كأنّه لم يكن ويغدوا المستقبل حقيقة كأنّه لم يكن من قبل رسما على خيال، وفجأة .. بين يديك الآن تذكرة تقلّك من وإلى .. من حالة إلى حالة .. من وضعية إلى وضعية .. من ظرف إلى ظرف .. من فقر إلى غنى .. من شقاء إلى راحة .. من حلم إلى واقع مست
الآن بين يديك الوسيلة لتحقيق حلمك، وفجأة ..
أنت الآن تنظر بعينين زائغتين، تنظر إلى الماضي وهو يختلط بالمستقبل، ما كان حلما سيصير حقيقة، تزدحم داخلك الخواطر فتعبر الأمنيات من الماضي إلى المستقبل وتختلط وتتداخل فيغدوا الماضي وهما كأنّه لم يكن ويغدوا المستقبل حقيقة كأنّه لم يكن من قبل رسما على خيال، وفجأة ..
بين يديك الآن تذكرة تقلّك من وإلى ..
من حلم إلى واقع مستقبلي مبني على معطيات هذا الحلم، وفجأة ..
قصة قصيرة رائعة وساحرة أرشحها لكل شخص لم يقرأ قصة أو رواية منذ وقت طويل، وأرشحها أيضا لمحبّي هذا النوع من الأسلوب.
So, John Steinbeck and his editor walk into a bar.
I mean, you've written the Great American novel, you've won the Pulitzer, you've fought for the poor man, you've made your fiction read like non-fiction and your non-fiction read like fiction."John lights a smoke, takes a slug of beer, grunts.
So, maybe, you know, it would be funny (ha ha ha), if you could take a story, a legend you know, and make it real.
keep it under 100 pages."John looks up from his beer, wonders if he can hear a score on the game.
He looks over briefly at the editor."Yeah.
Al igual que como con "De Ratones y Hombres", "La Perla" nos muestra una historia en donde apreciamos la naturaleza humana al desnudo, las emociones a flor de piel en situaciones límites.
No he leído "Las Uvas de la Ira" ni "Al Este del Edén", pero siento que Steinbeck es poderoso en este tipo de novelas cortas.
Tan sólo un objeto, una perla, que nos pregunta a todos, al narrador, los personajes y al lector: ¿tú, qué harías ante una oportunidad así?Para Kino es una bendición, para Juana, una maldición y para nosotros, los lectores, una maravillosa historia.
She was as remote and as removed as Heaven.The Pearl is a beautifully written tale of avarice and the power of ignorance.
This is the first Steinbeck's book I've read, though it won't be the last, despite the horrible first impression.
Poor Indian, who lives in the South America with his wife and their baby, finds giant pearl, decides to sell it and then use the money to buy medicine for his child, who just got bitten by a scorpion.
Basically, his wife is superstitious, tells him the pearl is evil, he doesn't listen, so tragedy happens.
Steinbeck is actually telling us to be satisfied with what we are and not try seeking for better options because we're inevitably going to fail in the end.
Poor pearl diver in South America finds giant-ass pearl, decides to sell it and use the money to buy medicine for his baby, who just got bitten by a scorpion. The mierda hits the fan, people die, everything generally goes to hell in a handbasket, and it all happens in about the space of time it took you to read this review. Verdict: meh. Read for: 10th grade English
There is no shame in fighting back against the tides of unfairness to protect what is yours and to work toward something better.I can't bring myself to rate something higher than 3 stars if it pissed me off with its ending, but I can respect this book because it's John freaking Steinbeck, it's a fable that's so well done it may as well define the word 'fable' in the dictionary, and because it wasn't only the alluring pull of the pearl that kept drawing me further in.
John Steinbeck adapted a Mexican folk tale into a novella about fate, evil, the perils of greed, and the plight of oppressed people.
Kino dives for pearls in the hope that he could afford to pay a doctor, and comes up with a huge, valuable pearl--the "Pearl of the World".
But a succession of violent and tragic events occur as people try to rob and swindle Kino.It was interesting how music plays a role in Kino's emotions throughout the book.
This story is told in a very simple manner, like a parable or Mexican folk tale passed down orally.
It was a big mistake I made 3 days ago, I was going to start 'Charlotte's Web' but instead I started 'The Pearl' thinking it was written before ‘Of Mice and Men’ and on just finishing I found it was written much later. All I remember is my decision to read books in sequence they were published. Anyway it can’t be undone. The Review: “In the town they tell the story of the great pearl” how it was found and how it was lost again. They tell of Kino, the fisherman, and of his wife, Juana, and of the
“In the town they tell the story of the great pearl” how it was found and how it was lost again.
And, as with all retold tales that are in people’s hearts, there are only good and bad things and black and white things and good and evil things and no in-between anywhere.“If this story is a parable, perhaps everyone takes his own meaning from it and reads his own life into it.
But I read with the bleakest of hope that the pearl would not be lost, the pearl that has became Kino’s life and whose music, the music of pearl, played above all.
i have had this sitting on my bookshelf for a while now (about 5 years! what?!) so i finally decided to read it. and, although i didnt enjoy it as much as some of his other novels, i appreciated the cautionary message of the story and the classic steinbeck writing style. 3 stars
Maybe that’s because we are in the midst of iconic metaphors—the stuff of Shakespeare, Aristotle, and more recently John Steinbeck.The Pearl, based on a classic Mexican folk tale, tells the story of Kino, Juana, and their infant son.
Juana, in her woman’s soul, knew that the mountain would stand while the man broke himself; that the sea would surge while the man drowned in it.”In my opinion, this is where we all are right now—at the apex of the shift from “might makes right” to, I hope, something equally male and female.
The apex is a precarious place where winds blow, people tumble into oblivion, and everything feels like life or death.Thank you, Mr. Steinbeck.
A simple story about a young man who finds a pearl, and the tragic consequences that greed can bring, yet I came away from this absolutely gobsmacked with the intensity and beauty of Steinbeck's writing. It was powerful, gripping and heartbreaking, all in less than 100 pages. I can only liken this to Hemingway's 'The Old Man and the Sea' - utterly flawless.
"In the town they tell the story of the great pearl - how it was found and how it was lost again..."What an amazing piece of literature this was!!Beautiful words!John Steinbeck's The Pearl is a simple story of simple people, with many beautiful words. A must-read!
A Pérola é provavelmente de todos os livros que tenho, o que li mais vezes.
É uma história comovente cheia de simbolismo.
Kino e Juana não têm mais nada na vida além da canoa que utilizam para apanhar ostras.
Acalentam a esperança de um dia a sorte lhes sorrir e encontrarem a pérola que lhes permita dar ao filho, Coyotito, uma vida melhor.E precisamente quando mais precisavam encontraram.
Uma pérola enorme, que num dia plantou sonhos e esperança e no outro trouxe consigo a morte.É uma história sobre a ganância e a inveja que prevalecem acima da solidariedade.
Steinbeck is a master!If I could, I would've read this book in one sitting, for that was what the writing demanded.
An imperative, enslaving writing, that transformed a common narrative into a passionate, thrilling story.
A writing so disquieting that you find yourself trying not to peek into the next page to know what's going to happen, while we are run over by the feelings of the main characters.I really must read his greater works!I can't recommend this enough!
Steinbeck’s tale of course, speaks to the greed of humanity, the immediate distrust of others once something of value is in one’s possession, and the importance of having more than money and riches in one’s life.
This small book is a quick read, and a great reminder of the important things in life.
However, re-reading it now as an adult, it is evident that Steinbeck’s time and our time is very different (although perhaps I am just bitter) as I was quick to think Kino’s protectiveness of his Pearl and the immediate distrust was not entirely misplaced- I likely would have acted exactly the same way.
4+★This short novella (90 pages) brings to mind the biblical parable of The Pearl Of Great Price.
Like the parables, the telling juxtaposes contrasting motifs of good and evil and what defines them or makes them so.
How sudden wealth can corrupt depending on one’s choices, needs, or morals.
The reader has much to ponder throughout the pages which turn beautifully.
The movie Treasure of the Sierra Madre kept flicking through my head.
A timeless story no doubt told in many cultures and voices throughout history, this little treasure of a book is well worth your time and could make for good group discussion.
Steinbeck's tragic novella is about a poor pearl diver, Kino, and what happens to him and his family after he finds "the pearl of the world". This great pearl should bring incredible wealth to it's owner, but the ways of the world are not set to benefit Kino which he quickly learns. This book is likable and easy to read, even for people who are not generally fond of Steinbeck's writing, I would think.
Rating: 4* of fiveA beautiful fable of life's central issue: greed. How awful it felt to write that sentence.Particularly important to read in this horrendous passage in American history.
Think well in both senses of the word "fortune".For those interested, the story begins: Kino and his wife Juana are rough Indian, poor and workers, parents of a young child named Coyotito.
Before returning to work in order not to starve, Kino and Juana are going again dredging the bottom of the Gulf and discovered a huge gem, a huge bead, as they would not even dare to imagine, yet less possess.Although they want to hide it, the news spread like wildfire.From there, their fate is their own becoming, the white doctor, mysteriously, wants to see the child, Kino hears prowl at night around his hut...What to do when you are not on hand to play in the category of which money is the business?
