https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133030._Toons_for_Our_Times
I am not sure that there are any bad Bloom County books. And I am fairly sure that there are few cartoonists like Berke Breathed with such an incredible amount of insane creativity in his ironic and sarcastic look at the Raygun era of American politics and society in the 80s. An absolute joy.
I loved Bloom County in the 1980's and is still feels fresh reading it again now.
All of the characters are a blast to read about.
Berke Breathed has done not only a wonderful job creating stories that are fun to read, but drawing the characters so well.
Franklin is the best new character added as he rips through security systems hacking his way in causing trouble where ever he goes.
He is a blast!
You will read it over and over again .
'Our times' being the '80s, but I haven't yet encountered a specifically datable strip.
It's 1983/84Evidently this has several classic strips, because it's porcupined with markers.
Mr Limekiller was more or less phased out later.The back cover matter purports to be the product of the publishers, but in fact was probably written by Breathed himself.
One decision that probably WAS that of the publishers: this collection has page numbers.
Page numbers make this process easier.
Oddly, though, the color pages are not numbered.
Ah, the early 1980s! The Day After, commies in Mexico about to attack, the beginning of media-driven retarded election coverage, Return of the Jedi, the first "hackers"--all this and more was lampooned, heralded, and squinted at through the daily acid (corrosive and mind-bender both) of Bloom County. It's hard to imagine someone born after, say, 1985 being able to read this and fathom much of it, so far has the world moved on since then, but it's worth a go. It's actually astonishing that Breathed wasn't burned at the stake by '85. Pure, unadulterated political undermining!
Not every Breathed comic was a winner, and that's what you get when you like a comic with an edge to it. But I fondly remember that he really captured the 80s in the same way Doonsbury captured the 70s. Not many creators can truly say they were right there in the thick of it.
I always had a soft spot for the Bloom County stuff, even when I was too young to really understand what was going on. Now I read it with relish. And ketchup. It has a playful weirdness to it that still manages to be topical and biting AND be funny.About what else can that be said?
High points.......Milo's introduction to MTV. (Classic!!)A much needed dandelion break. We could all use those from time to time.Oliver and his IBM 6000 hacking into newspapers.Closet of anxieties.The day after "The Day After"
Genius in drawing, political/social observation. Hmmm. It's time to re-read it!
My first and favorite Bloom County book -- got it in 5th grade and fell in love. Just reread it in about 45 minutes and it still launches me into fits of giggles.
i feel so lucky to have grown up in the golden era of comic strips.. we had bloom county, far side, AND calvin & hobbes.oh to be a child again.
Another look at the lives and times of the inhabitants of Bloom County.
Nice trip down memory lane...
My first Bloom County book AND the impetus for loving comics.
pus is the man, well a man in penguin form. Excellent comics to cheer you up on a down day. I read a few every morning to start my day off right. Very recommended
Comic strip collections are always a joy to have around. Especially now that no one has newspapers anymore.
Love the tuba.
A masterpiece of cartooning.
"Government is the last refuge of the nincompoop."
I laughed and laughed and then my flat mates threw shoes at me until I had to stop reading so they could go to sleep.
Well swat my hind with a melon rind, but that's my penguin state of mind.
Rereading all of my dad's Bloom County books since the strip has rebooted. Good humor ... Wish I were around in the 80s so I'd get more of the references.
Not my favorite... but still good!!!!
Have I mentioned how much I liked the early Bloom County?
Bloom County has always been my favourite cartoon. 1983, and the memories of that era, are explained very well by this book.
A lot of cookey fun in these comics. The late 70s a s early 80s had such different political comics. Very weird, bitting and fun.
