https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131190.The_Road_Through_the_Wall
I'm currently slowly working my way through all of Shirley Jackson's books (many for the umpteenth time); it was a pleasure to revisit this, her very first novel, originally published in 1948.
Road tells the story of the residents of Pepper Street in a genteel suburb of San Francisco in the summer of 1936.
There's also the fact that Road features a rather large cast for such a short book (just under 200 pages).
Despite the hard edges of the characters populating Pepper Street (Mrs. Merriam and a young girl named Virginia are among the most horrible people Jackson ever conjured up and that's really saying something), they are vividly, uncomfortably human.
She's an expert at exploring the good/bad duality of our psyche, and at times this reads like a reality TV show "The Families of Pepper Street" except well crafted with more depth and intentional satire.She also delivers a chilling ending, the most tragic element, not what happens, but how the various characters react.
Bottom line: this isn't formulaic Mc-Fiction.Finally, there are a lot of characters in this book, and at times it is extremely hard to keep track of them.
3.5 stars, rounded downI love Shirley Jackson a lot, but this book didn't really grab me.
I think it's because there were too many characters and I didn't really get what was going on half of the time.
There were some great scenes and her characteristic weirdness and the great description of female companionship, but it left something to be desired.
I think I will eventually re-read this and I can imagine liking it better the second time, when I don't try to find a plot that isn't there.It's bizarre to me that some people tag this as "Horror", unless we're talking the Suburban type.
This is a series of everyday vignettes about the horrible, horrible, normal people that fill the microcosm of Pepper Street. Horrible children, horrible spinsters, horrible wives and husbands. The horribleness of the community builds with each page, so the entire time, I was waiting for a Truly Awful Thing to happen. But don't look for any one Truly Awful Villain; like the Shirley classics to come, the evil is in the mass.
"The Lottery," the short story which made her career, was published in The New Yorker in the same year as this novel.Over a period of one summer, a group of families, all of which live on the same block, interact in the way of small neighborhoods.
Anyone could say that the parents in the neighborhood mean well, but all of them are caught up in attitudes and outside forces beyond their awareness.By the end of the summer, the wall that surrounds the highly affluent section which abuts Pepper Street is being broken through to allow for a new street into the area, giving access to a coming subdivision.
In the foreword to the Penguin edition which I borrowed from the library, Ruth Franklin writes: 'Compared to The Haunting of Hill House or We Have Always Lived in the Castle, Jackson's masterful late novels, The Road Through the Wall is a slighter work.
But it is marvellously written, with the careful attention to structure, the precision of detail, and the brilliant bite of irony that would always define her style'.The novel was published in 1948 to a 'largely unappreciative audience'; its critics were 'put off by the book's unpleasant characters, its grim tone, and its violent conclusion'.

Frederica's sister's condition is never explored, and we do not know how they go on, or how their mother keeps them.
Given that there are no specific historical references, it's hard to place the cultural atmosphere at the time, reading it now.
It's a little timeless, this cloistered place.
But given that this book is a product of the Forties...
I don't know.
Curious.If you picked up this book for the dead girl and her bloodied head on the cover, as I did, you will be disappointed.
This book reads more like a collection of vignettes than anything else.

rather than a sustained plot, this book is really nothing more than a series of vignettes, sharp as daggers, meant to convey all the narrow confines of suburban life.
i mention this because the book blurb for the penguin edition i have makes it sound like it's a central catalyst to the plot, when it's not.
just goes to show how tenuous the "plot" really is.) don't want this review to make it sound like the book is a mean, petty thing; its characters are, but not jackson.
You just shut up for once in your life and try to act decent."wise words to live by indeed.
At first I thought this was just a bunch of snapshots about extremely unpleasant people but the last third of this book was a legitimate page turner and everything came together (but not entirely, still in pieces..). I think it treads very very familiar territory but in a deft way..the way Jackson was able to put together these anecdotes slowly at 1st and then in taut concise, even like paragraph length, little pieces, was well done.. very much like The Lottery actually.. and more uncomfortable to me than her straight horror work
"Mrs. Desmond was neither intelligent nor unintelligent, because thinking and all its allied attributes were completely outside her schedule for life; her values did not include mind, and nothing that she intended ever required more than money." These people are the worst and Shirley knew it even back in 1939.
This book is a giant slice-of-life story. There is no narrative arc. Characters come and go without reason. There is no build up or true conclusion of story lines. There are characteristic oddities that only Shirley Jackson can pull off, but those don't seem to add up to anything either. This book could have been 1,000 pages, but instead, it's slice of life.
The first thing I should say is that I have a very bad memory and that as soon as there are more than a handful of characters to keep track of, I literally lose the plot, so this book was always going to be a challenge for me.
Now I’m on my way to reading her following novels Hangsaman and The Sundial, having read the other ones, not to mention as many of the short stories as I can get my hands on, as I have every intention of some day becoming a Shirley Jackson completist.
And when comes time to read this book again, I’ll draw out that damn chart to figure out just how nasty x was being to z.
The Road Through the Wall is Shirley Jackson's first novel.
It tells the story of the people residing on Pepper Street in a small town outside of San Francisco in 1936.
The people that live on the street are mostly a very unpleasant bunch with Jackson showing the darker side of humanity even in what could be anyone's very quiet neighborhood.
The novel also has a very chilling ending in the usual Jackson style.
Jackson loosely based the novel on her childhood, growing up in an affluent California neighborhood.
One of the saddest books I’ve read in a long while, masterfully written, with periods of tension and relaxation creating a kaleidoscope of suburban middle-class life. The ending is not that much scarier than the rest of the novel as the scariest thing are the people who don’t have empathy for anyone, even for their own children.
This is Shirley Jackson's first novel which was published in 1948, just one year before her famous short story The Lottery.
At first the characters come across as perfect little suburban families but the cracks, just little cracks, start to show, as we realise that they are sometimes petty, cruel or vicious.
This quote precedes a section where he enters the Desmond's empty house and wanders around it, examining all the items in the house, but not considering whether he had a right to do so or not.
I suppose it's a bit obvious what happens and who is responsible but Shirley Jackson still has another surprise up her sleeve.
The story plods on tracing mundane and trivial incidents in the lives of the residents of Pepper street until you get to the double tragedy at the end that it shockingly concludes with leaving things deliciously ambiguous and unexplained.This couldn't have been written a decade later, or at least would have been very different, with the advent of teenage culture and rebellion.
In that sense it provides a view of then American contemporary life that has disappeared for ever and it is interesting as a period piece.It's not the sort of thing I normally read but I did find it engaging to hold my interest throughout, her usual bright and readable prose was evident and it was thought provoking.
In the first chapter the reader recieves a huge infodump about the neighbourhood, the houses and the people who live in them, but their names are simply to similar - Donald, Desmond, Mary, Marilyn, Hallie, Harriet, James, Johnny, etc.
Usually I plow through books, but this one I kept putting down, and I had to force myself to stick with it, out of pure loyalty to Jackson, who's "We Have Always Lived in the Castle" is my favourite book to this day.
I wouldn't recommended this one to other than people who insist on being Jackson completists though.
I just finished this book this morning and I'm already trying to see where I can fit it into my schedule to reread.It does start a bit slow - there's a prologue which I feel is not particularly necessary because Shirley Jackson establishes characterization so well in the moment that she really doesn't need to explain who everyone is beforehand.
Neither book features a protagonist with an established superobjective, and both read like a series of disconnected anecdotes at least most of the way through.
But near the end of the book, Shirley Jackson yanks everything together with a development that had me wanting to start from the beginning immediately upon finishing.
Shirley Jackson's first novel isn't her best, but glimpses of her greatness can be found in this story of a middle class suburban neighborhood.
In regards to characters, I think Jackson focuses on the neighborhood as an overall character where she explores the meanness, selfishness, and cruelty of human nature through seemingly mundane happenings such as the torn friendship between Harriet and Marilyn because of their mothers' disapproval, and Tod Donald's ostracism from the rest of the children.
Overall, this novel isn't the most enjoyable or engaging, but I'd recommend it for fans of Jackson's work.
Jakob Vala (Graphic Designer): It’s fitting that I most often find Shirley Jackson in the form of torn paperbacks, on crowded shelves in the back of dusty bookstores.
Disturbing and oddly wry, her writing examines conformity in a manner so precise as to appear almost fetishistic.A few weeks ago, while walking the long way to lunch (read: avoiding someone), I ducked into a used bookstore and bought a copy of The Road Through the Wall (1948).
I’m only a third of the way through—the promised fatalities have yet to occur—but The Road Through the Wall, is a slow-brewing tale that promises the standard Jackson terror.
An excellent first novel and one that Jackson knew she had to get out of herself so that she would be free from parental memories and constraints.
Now that her books are being re-released I have been enjoying finding this writer again and going back to where she started.
Worth the journey!
In this instance, worth the journey if only for the views she gives of life in the burbs similar to my childhood neighborhoods of Marin County.
The deep seated need to conform.In doing a bit of research on this book, I really enjoyed the hilariously inaccurate covers for the paperbacks in early editions.
Pepper Street is not the nice, safe neighborhood its residents pride themselves in thinking it is.
Friendships begin, allegiances shift, and friendships end as mean-spirited whisper campaigns of spiteful gossip are waged morning, noon, and night by its oh-so-prim-and-proper residents.Less a complete story than a series of interconnected fragments and vignettes, The Road Through the Wall takes place during a single summer.
While Bradbury's interconnected stories explored the joy and magic of childhood, Jackson's fragments and vignettes strip away the joy and magic, laying bare the innumerable nasty slights and endless cutting remarks that leave scars and festering wounds on a growing child's psyche.
It's feels engagingly like a good telling-off, and it's typically funny at unexpected moments.What stops it from being as successful as her later novels is over-population.
they passed the Robertses and the Byrnes on one side and the Donalds on the other, and the Roberts boys dropped off, and Pay Byrne, and Tod Donald went home, while Virginia Donald and Mary Byrne came along the street slowly with the girls, Harriet Merriam and Helen Williams ...".
Even when it calms down, the similarity of many of the character names makes the plot hard to follow (Harriet, Harrie, Helen, Hester; Mrs Martin, Mrs Merriam, Marilyn, Mildred, Mary, Mrs Mack).
This creepy story brought back images from the nice middle-class 1970s neighborhood I grew up in, minus the "terrible event" mentioned on the back cover of the book.
Shirley Jackson has an incredible way with words and dialogue, and an uncanny ability to draw a picture with a very dark shadow lurking just off to the side.
My neighborhood was just like the one in this story, all superficially wonderful and filled with nice, "normal" people.
But the people weren't really all that nice, and an ill wind blew just around the corner.
Although in this story the ill wind blew straight down the centre of Pepper Street.

After reading Shirley I'm even more inspired to read everything by Jackson.
Not sure why some readers have categorized this as horror unless it's just because it's Jackson...or it's just the horror of the ennui present in the suburbs of the 1940s with its casual racism and classism.
This was Jackson's first published work and a reader definitely sees glimpses of what is to come, even though there are far too many characters that aren't sharply distinguished - in fact it's even more reminiscent of some early Updike versus later Jackson.
Not Jackson's best, of course, but totally readable and interesting.
It was quite the social commentary and full of so many characters that at times it was difficult to keep track of them all.
Yet even in what seemed like a satirical take on class and society, Jackson managed to go dark on the ending.
I found myself wishing for further development of certain characters - what was it like to face being pushed to the edges like that because of race/religion?
What was it really like being one of the more well-to-do families?
What really happened at the end?
I'm still piecing together my collection but it seems like a good plan.
