https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275000.Fire_and_Ice
Whichever Erin Hunter wrote this novel tackled some deep and complex interpersonal issues, including loyalty to oneself and one's people, friendship and the painful barbed obstacles that can come between even boon companions, the effects of love (both old and new) on one's life, and what it means to feel alone and significantly different from everyone else.
Along the way plot revelations are made and surprising developments come from the new relationships that are formed.Fire and Ice does an excellent job taking the reader further into the fantasy world of the cat clans and keeping a high level of interest.
I thought this book was exciting because they brought one of the enemy Clans back home after they were driven out. Then Firehearts first apprentice was hit by a "monster" (car) and it was a trap for the clan leader Bluestar, and Fireheart can't convince Bluestar that it was a trap. I would reccomend this book to people who like to read books that follow another like its repetative you know whats going to happen. (FYI: This is my second time reading this series that should tell you how good it is!:)...).
Second read: August 19-September 6, 2017Continuing to reread the series and I'm enjoying it. :) First read: August 6-7, 2009I enjoy how this author writes her books, she doesn't recap everything that happened in previous books. And Book 2: Fire and Ice started up right where book 1 left off. I enjoy reading the Warrior books and at the moment can't seem put them down. :-)
This book is the best ever(besides twiight), not just this book the whole series. The suspence and interesting events amaze me. If your not sure whether or not to read this book because it's about cats read it!! They act like humans except the hunting. If your not going to read it because of the fighting read it. It's not as violent as you think. WARNING: THESE BOOKS ARE ADDICTING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Don't pick up this book with out having time to read the whole series
Well, It's been awhile since I've read this but, like all the other Warriors books I found this to be a very exciting read.
This is the second book out of the original Warriors arc, and and it continues from where the last ends.
I don't think I'll get too detailed into the plot or else I'll be writing for ages, but it's definitely not just your typical kids book about cats.
It's so detailed and the plot is very cleverly thought out.
It's a must read!
But read the first one before you read this one.
These books are best read in order.
Cute kittens are cute. But still there are also lots of serious and somber moments. But never the less if you like cats this an fun read.And it's always fun to read about kittens having fun, meow meow :D
I love Warriors!
Fireheart learns that his best friend Graystripe has fallen in love with Silverstream, a warrior from RiverClan, even though it is against the cats' "warrior code".The book was first published on June 1, 2003 in the US as a hardcover.
The book received mixed reviews: the negative reviews criticized the flat characters, and how troublesome it was to flip back to the characters list due to the large number of cats; positive reviews praised the suspense and rising tensions in the book.Fire and Ice takes place in a fictional forest which is home to four Clans of wild cats, ThunderClan, RiverClan, ShadowClan and WindClan, each of which lives in a territory best suited to their skills.
Favorite Series!
The Book Fire and Ice is a Book from The Warriors series.I recommend reading the first book to fully
Another installment of the Warriors series sees Fireheart facing new struggles, testing both his ties to ThunderClan and his kittypet roots.
Although he has been accepted into ThunderClan, it becomes more and more obvious that he wasn't born into this world, and may never fully embrace it.
Spotting his sister during training one day rekindles memories long forgotten, and may cause him to lose his place and respect of the Clan.I enjoyed how this book brought the two different loyalty issues to light.
I might just get addicted to this books just as I feared!
This series continues to be really cute and fun. I can see why kids (and adults) love it. I've been listening to the audio book version and the guy that reads them is really good. I love all the different voices that he does for the characters. He's so good, I prefer to listen than actually read.
Fireheart and Graystripe find out about this, and they travel to a distant farm with him so that he may be free from Tigerclaw's grasp.The two friends announce to the clan that Ravenpaw is dead; this pleases Tigerclaw.
But he tells Bluestar the truth in private, as he wants her to understand what her deputy is trying to do.By chance, Tigerclaw catches Fireheart letting a Riverclan cat, Silverstream, walk away from a fight -- she fights him until Graystripe, her forbidden lover, calls out to her: "Silverstream!
He lets her go, and Tigerclaw can use this to his advantage -- to remove Fireheart from the clan once and for all.
haha...The first series of these books is pure gold- the characters, the plots, the themes, everything!
The second book series and the 3rd are okay (Dawn drives me crazy though) and the 4th one...
well the further they go the more trouble the author(s) seem to have making up new ideas lets just say.
Still, all the serieses are quite good, but the first is by far the best.
There are lots of other problems in the book for the heroes to overcome, and they don't always succeed in making things work out either.
Thats one thing that makes the books so good- the characters are believable.
Reread: 8/18/17 - THIS IS BETTER THAN I REMEMBERED!Blood is being spilled, a traitor is on the loose, forbidden love creates tension between Clans, friendships are destroyed; it seems like every possible tragedy strikes ThunderClan. If this was any other book, it would seem overdone- but book two of the Warriors series is well-written.I'm not kidding when I say the battle scenes left me breathless.
I really liked this book especially because of the cats in it.I also love how the book was worded so it was easy to understand.
I thought this book was very good; it was interesting too.
The book was interesting because it was about cats.Fireheart is the main character of the story; he faces many problems throughout the story.
Yellowfang is the medicine cat for the Thunderclan, but she used to be the medicine cat for Shadowclan.The author Erin Hunter does not really exist.
Erin Hunter is the pen name because the team thought if they put various names on the books.
That is a good series of books too.
RiverClan and ShadowClan seem to have formed a secret alliance, and if so, what does it mean for the other two Clans?This is Graystripe’s story; specifically Graystripe and Silverstream’s story.
It’s sweet on one hand, and annoying on the other; Sweet because love knows no bounds, and annoying when RiverClan identifies a ThunderClan scent on their territory, but Graystripe still (potentially) puts his Clan, and himself, in danger by going back to visit Silverstream.I can actually relate to Fireheart in this one; I know what it’s like to see someone I care about in a relationship in a less than desirable relationship and worry about their well-being.
Now, firepaw is becoming a warrior, but the danger has not past yet, there are dark plans going on in the clans.
Firepaw and Greypaw are now warriors and has to be a mentor and fireheart takes on Cinderpaw as his first mentor, cinderpaw shows great enthusiasm in learning but then there is a twist, and Greypaw falls in love with another clan cat!
and firepaw tries his best to try and stop him!Again, I really liked this book because now, things are getting very complicated and interesting.
but i still think that the book has too much killing in it.
The 2nd book in the Warriors series picks up precisely at the point the 1st one left of, and from the the story just keeps getting more and more intense.
The four clans are in a very volatile place during the whole book, and the reader can easily feel FireHeart's confusion as to who he can trust.
I have to say that after reading this book, I will officially admit to being hooked.
I really didnt think I would love the series and especially the characters so much.
Another highly recommended read for cat and animal lovers of all ages!
Warriors is an amazing series. It follows a cat named Fireheart, living in the wild with a gang of wild cats. 4 gangs to be excact. Windclan, Thunderclan, Riverclan, and Shadowclan. It is sorta hard to explain, but tust me it is an astounding book. Firepaw has been made a warrior Fireheart, and Graypaw has become Graystripe. Tigerclaw is still as suspicous as ever, and Fireheart is wary.
Further adventures of the cat clans. The morality is entirely humanoid, I guess to teach children. I have to say, half of the recurring problem characters really should have been killed off at the time as it is obvious their 'humanity' towards the bad characters puts the whole clan group at risk, time and time again!
Simplemente la amo! En esta segunda parte tenemos a nuestro protagonista felino mas maduro, con su nuevo nombre y responsabilidades. La aparicion de Princesa le da otro giro a la historia y tambien conocemos mas de los otros clanes. Me parecio mas emocionante que la anterior.
*4.5 stars*I'm buddy-reading this series with my oldest. We can't really read one book at the same time, because any literary discussions with him are resoundedly not spoiler-free - he's just so excited about reading and sharing his love of books. So I'm one book ahead of him, and am now fully invested in the world of a kittypet turned Clan warrior. I like everything about this book, which complicates the relationships between cats, and allegiances between clans, and Fireheart's own tender memories of kithood. It's a bit like Game of Thrones, only with cats and a middle grade audience.
god i loveeeee this seriesis a re-read: loved these books as a kid. main things in this: CINDERPAW OH MY GOD. graystripe and silverstream meeting OH MY GOD. BABY ONEWHISKER. oh man before he had to toughen up he sure was a cutie. CLOUDKIT. love that little atheist
Warriors Fire and IceBy Erin HunterePub Editors, July 2007fantasy, adventure This book is part 2 in a series of books about cats who live in the wild in clans.
This angered Bluestar who is leader of Thunder Clan, the clan of the protagonist, Fireheart.
In Fire and Ice, Bluestar sends Fireheart and Greystripe (Fireheart’s best friend) to help Wind Clan regain their territory and sustain themselves.
The theme of the book is how the Warrior Code helps the clans survive by living as a family.
This could break the warrior code and lead to a battle between the clans.
I stand by the fact that I don't like the first two books in the warriors series all that much.
Most people are like "But dose ones are best!" And I say "No. Not at all." Because the Erins, lets face it, were still very new to the group writing.
And I don't really like Into the Wild and didn't finish it, but came back for Fire and Ice.This one is much better than the first one, but still falls short in suspense.
That book was fantastic and I've read it so many times the cover is chipped and ripped and the pages are waterlogged.But this book falls short, again, with suspense.
Find this review, plus more, on my blog: Booklikes OR Blogger Basic InfoFormat: KindlePages/Length: n/a Genre: Middle School; Fantasy Reason For Reading: Buddy Read!At A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: NoCliff Hanger: NoTriggers: n/aRating: 2.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot: 3Characters: 5World Building:5 Flow:  6Series Congruity: 8Writing: 7Ending: 7Total: 6In DepthBest Part: Princess having kits!Worst Part: No real plotThoughts Had: Welp...ConclusionContinuing the Series: YesRecommending: SureShort Review: 2nd book syndrome, you stress me so.
We had a bunch of side stuff that i can't call plot.
A few cats died, and we had some major stuff happen, but it wasn't centralized enough for a plot.
No sería la primera vez que la segunda parte de un libro que, en su primera entrega generaba un ambiente más bien cálido y esperanzador para el lector, se convierte en una sombra que oscurece la primera página del libro y no se levanta incluso luego de finalizar la historia.
Pero lo que no es usual es que, habiendo ocurrido lo ya mencionado, la segunda parte de un libro se alce sin disminuir a la primera, o que no se hunda bajo el éxito del título precursor.
♥Une nouvelle fois j’ai adoré me replonger dans l’univers de mon Chat Roux préféré qui a d’ailleurs beaucoup évolué depuis le premier tome.
Je l’espère en tout cas.Petit Nuage est excellent, j’ai hâte de voir ce chaton évoluer au fil des livres !Dans ce tome on en apprend plus sur les différents clans et j’ai beaucoup aimé suivre l’évolution des relations qu’ils entretiennent entres eux.
Malgré le fait que les personnages du livre soient des chats, il nous montre que la vie peut être aussi douce que violente.
Que les choix que l’on fait auront des conséquences, qu’elles soient bonnes ou mauvaises.
