https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23350057-mystery-in-white
All authors I have read though not for many years.
This author was apparently a very successful member of that group, but I had never heard of nor read him before.
I forgot how fun these books are, the days before CSI, no forensics, DNA, computer data bases.
Another stranger arrives, who is he?
A very ominous scenario.Yes, at times the dialogue is a little corny, and some of the happenings a bit predictable but still so much fun and I just loved this trip to the past.
¿Podríamos decir que se trata de un buen clásico? Una buena historia con la que pasar unas horas...
3.5 stars for Mystery in White by J Jefferson Farjeon, the second book I have read by this author.On Christmas Eve a snowstorm rages.
I was thinking, as I read, what a wonderful movie this would make, casting a young Joanna Lumley as Laura, produced by the BBC or whosoever makes the Agatha Christie series.
The ending might come across better on screen than it did in print.Thank you to NetGalley and Poisoned Pen Press for providing a review copy of Mystery in White by J.
Jefferson Farjeon.
Imagine my delight when I received two British Classic Christmas Crime Mysteries from across the seas from a Tracey in the UK.
The Sinker - The introduction to this classic calls Murder in White and enticing set-up, if superficially familiar.
”A strange assortment of passengers traveling by train during a blizzard find themselves caught in an acute dilemma when the track becomes impassable.”When the porter has no idea when the tracks might be cleared, a group of passengers afraid their Christmas plans will be ruined, set out in hopes of making a connection at the Hemmersby Station, not too far distant.
Once again I'm pleased to have read a re-release of a late 1930s classic mystery, Mystery in White, that combines elements of many other classics (many that had not yet been written!).
This book was just what I wanted on a dreary, rainy day, with its interesting setting, curious plot and characters that were out of British central casting.
There were no huge surprises here---I have been reading mysteries most of my life---but the presentation was fun, there was just the right amount of suspense.
Hard-boiled mystery readers will probably want to look elsewhere.A copy of this book was provided by the publisher through NetGalley in return for an honest review.
There are a good cast of characters, including an elderly bore, a psychic, a brother and sister, a young office clerk and a chorus girl travelling to an audition.
Cut off in the snow, with no way of making contact with anyone, the group have to make the best of things – while feeling more than a little uncomfortable about making themselves at home.
The Christmas setting, feeling of isolation and the circumstances the characters find themselves in all add to a good atmosphere; while the plot twists and turns and the pace does not lessen.
Good fun and an atmospheric murder mystery to curl up with on a winters evening.
Jefferson Farjeon novel I could find in the Kindle format: Mystery in White, first published the following year.
Sayers called Farjeon “unsurpassed for creepy skill in mysterious adventures,” and he certainly proves it in Mystery in White!Led by the intrepid and perspicacious Edward Maltby, 60 years old and a proud member of the Royal Psychical Society, a motley crew escaping from a snowed-in train take refuge in an abandoned house.
While Maltby and the four young people are clearly on the up and up, who is the mysterious Cockney who calls himself “Mr. Smith” and who has also taken refuge in the house?
(Joseph Jefferson) Farjeon.
I loved this book, maybe it's just the right time of the year to read a snowbound mystery at Christmas but it was great! A bit of gothic, a bit of supernatural and a real entertaining read-I'm thinking it would make a wonderful movie in light of the Agatha Christie Murder on the Orient Express remake.
This was great! Fast paced read of Noir style. For me, as good as the Orient Express. This is a great cosy Christmas read. People who review on Goodreads have often read so much that nothing is original to them, and they are hard to please. Is that fair to say? Anyhow, if you are looking for social political commentary that will blow your mind and change your life look elsewhere. If you just want a damn good read pick this up!
Here's a mystery you  want  to put down.It's so mindlessly banal that it's perfect for air-train travel.
It requires no concentration; it's just a way to pass the time, uh-huh, til you get there.
Published in 1937, this story of an oddball group snowbound in a country house at Christmas has been getting some Cheerio Rediscovered write-ups in the UK press.
Agatha Christie often used similar elements, but there is nobody like the whodunit Dame.
I guess within the genre it's called a "cosy." On a holiday r/t NY-DC it offered distraction from the miserable countryside flying past Amtrak windows.
I'm going to mark this one as finished because I'm not finishing it.
It had the potential to be one of those fun when you're in the mood for it kind of books, but became harder and harder to ever get in that mood, because I didn't care about any of these people and the constant verbal interaction between the characters I couldn't warm to made it rough going.
I've picked up the Thirteenth Guest by Farjeon which is a more traditional story and style, so hopefully I'll like that one better when I get to it.
This has little in common with Murder on the Orient Express, aside from the whole train in winter thing.This is my second British Library Crime Classic by J.
Jefferson Farjeon.
I previously read Thirteen Guests, which was a traditional English Country House murder.
I suppose that is, in part, why they are long out of print and need to be "rediscovered."However, as a second tier Golden Age mystery, this was quite enjoyable.
And I find myself in the midst of a serious vintage phase right now, so I'm sure I will read more of these.
At first nervously, the group takes up occupancy, led by the fashionable young things David and Lydia, who're brother and sister, and the psychic researcher Maltby, who's aged 60 but is throughout described as "the old man." (Harrumph!) There's a murdered corpse out in the snow and another, we discover, on the train the group left behind them, but the biggest mystery, obviously, is how come the house has been, Mary Celeste-like, so suddenly abandoned.It's a tremendous premise, and as soon as I picked the book up I remembered having read it before, I think in the mid-1980s.
It is still not that often that I have come across depictions of characters suffering from shell shock in the original 1920s/30s mysteries.
The mystery itself is convoluted and the solution is contrived - the psychic gets involved a lot, and at one point I flashbacks to The Haunting of Hill House - but there is also something gripping about the part of the mystery, which really takes quite a gritty turn.Almost as good as Death of an Airman, and the book made me laugh a lot.But first things first.
Novela del género clásico de misterio al estilo de Agatha Christie. Al principio cuesta entrar en la historia pero luego tanto el misterio como sobre todo la resolución del caso me han parecido ingeniosos.
Ich fürchte, die englischen Krimis aus dem "Goldenen Zeitalter" sind nichts für mich. Positiv hier: Es gibt viel Schnee. Wenn das aber auch schon das einzig Gute ist, das mir zum Roman einfällt, dann passt es wohl nicht.
After they've been stuck for what seems an eternity, the passengers—David Carrington and his sister, Lydia; clerk Robert Thomson; chorus girl Jessie Noyes; Edward Maltby, of the Royal Psychical Society; and an old bore named Hopkins —all decide to leave their carriage in search of another (hopefully snow-free) train at the nearby the Hemmersby station.But the weather is worse than expected and they become hopelessly lost in the swirling white landscape.
Maltby and David Carrington take the lead in investigating the mysterious happenings--both those that occurred on the train they left behind and those that involve the house.
Various reasons are put forward for this but no definite solution can be formed.The uninvited guests decided to make themselves at home and discussions take place as to what happened on the train as one of the passengers explains that he saw a body in an adjacent carriage.
I'm going dippy.' And it is quite possible that some readers may find themselves feeling rather similar!Unexplained deaths are then discovered and eventually, when other uninvited guests find their way to the house, a story begins to unfold and, providing one can keep all the threads together, an explanation, and solution, to the mystery, appropriately late on Christmas Day, is finally is reached.
I usually really enjoy a classical detective story such as this one without any DNA, internet, video,...aspects but in this case there was no point at which I was really interested in the story or the characters. Everything felt too planned and the solution to all the murders was the most banal one with unrealistic motives. Still an easy read and festive audio book.
The cover alone is reason to buy the book, very stylishly evocative of the 1930s.
The story keeps the promise of the cover -- a cozy, though faintly menacing, mystery involving a group of people who abandon their carriage on a snowbound train and strike out through a blizzard, hoping to get to a nearby station.
Instead, they gratefully stumble on a country manor, where they find fires blazing in hearths, a meal laid in the dining room, but no people.
I thoroughly enjoyed the story, deftly woven and satisfying.
It's the perfect book to read by the fire on a grey afternoon.
A different spin to the 'manor house murder' subgenre. The few paranormal aspects to this were just the right amount to lend a certain spookiness to the story while not stretching my credulity too far.
Sayers, who said, "Jefferson Farjeon is quite unsurpassed for creepy skill in mysterious adventures."There are some similarities - at least initially - between "Mystery in White" and Murder on the Orient Express by Agatha Christie: a group of passengers on a train are stranded by a snowstorm while there is a murderer among them.
Instead, they try to make it to the next station, but become stranded in an empty house, which has been mysteriously left open with every possible amenity, as if visitors were expected."They looked into a comfortable, spacious hall.
4.5 Sterne für ein Zurückversetzen in die Zeit von Agatha Christie und dem Charme von schwarz-weiß Fernsehen - ganz toller, weihachtlicher Krimi Also das Buch passt einfach hervorragend in die (Vor)Weihnachtszeit oder eisige Winterabende!
Ein Krimi, der mich sehr an Agatha Christie erinnert und den Charme der alten schwarz-weiß Filme ♥ Vor allem das Cover verstärkt diesen Eindruck noch und passt wirklich perfekt zur Geschichte!Die Charaktere lernt man im Zug kennen, der in einem starken Schneetreiben feststeckt.
Die Hintergründe zu dem Haus und dem Mord, ja - natürlich wird auch ein Mord aufzuklären sein, wecken die Neugier und haben mich mit der besonderen Atmosphäre wie die kuriosen Gäste regelrecht (im Schnee) versinken lassen.
Stranded on a train in a snowstorm on Christmas Eve, a group of passengers decide to walk to the she
this is a book of its time.
the language is very Noel Coward and after a while it did start to grate a little.
I really wanted to enjoy this book, set in an old house in the middle of a snowstorm on Xmas eve, a group of strangers come together and solve a mystery.
What isn't there to like?
it just gets very staid, instead of the action revealing what is happening there is a lot of talking and thinking which reveals the plot.
I feel disappointed in this book, although it would have made a great film back in the day.
Not as good as I expected. First of all, I assumed it was a whodunit, and it's not. The nature of the mystery only becomes clear very late into the book, and by then I was quite frustrated. I'd say it's more like a campfire mystery, with mostly unpleasant characters telling the tale. The setting was original enough, but other than that, it's not a very good crime novel.
This is really fun, full of creepy moments: faint noises behind locked doors and footsteps suddenly appearing in the snow. It's pretty fast-paced, explores detective novel character types and gives a little nod to the traditional Christmas ghost story too. Definitely one to read by the fire during the holidays.
I found this book very atmospheric and mysterious with a great setting for Christmas. It's not really a typical Golden Age Mystery in that you can't follow all the clues through to a solution but I think you just have to go with the flow and see where it takes you.
3.5 stars A little better than average, but mostly just the perfect read for a snowy December!
Novela de trama compleja y aire teatral, despliega un abanico de personajes originales (aunque un tanto esquemáticos) y logra sumir al lector en la misma sensación de desconcierto que ellos sufren. Pero en su recta final las dudas se disipan y la explicación de las situaciones vividas resulta satisfactoria: Seguir leyendo
