https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/304895.Iggie_s_House
It's a little dated, and the capital-M Message definitely overrides the story, but I feel like this would be a really good way into talking with your kid about racism.
It walks us through the process by which she learns to untangle her own racism, and it even tackles the White Savior Complex, when Winnie is more concerned with helping the Garners be accepted by the neighborhood than just being their friends and treating them like people.
We had distrust and fear of White people anyway, and a White kid who tried to befriend us while saying the expected stupid stuff White kids say to Black kids ("Are you from Africa?
This girl really expects these Black kids to go ga-ga because she's "one of the good ones," and when one of them lets her know that it's really not all about her and as a kid she doesn't have all the White privilege and power she thinks she has, the White girl slaps him like Scarlett slapped her slave!
Iggie's House wasn't one that I read as a child, so I was pleased to get it from the library and settle down with it.Iggie's House tells the story of Winnie, a girl whose best friend moves away to Japan in the middle of the summer.
This in itself could be enough of a story for a Judy Blume novel, but instead she decides to introduce a typically American story, making the family that move into Iggie's house a black family.
It's not my favourite Judy Blume book, but it's a good one, and I can't wait to read the rest of them.
Mrs. Landon, a grown-up Mean Girl who appears to run the block like it's her own personal country club, is fit to be tied and right away starts trying to drive the Garbers away.The book is heavy-handed, and I think the Message overpowers character development, something Blume is ordinarily pretty good at.
It worked for me when I was eight, but when I read it as an adult she just seems like a stereotype.In short, I think the message of the book was important, and for the time period when it was written it was probably much-talked-about and maybe even controversial.
Winnie betul-betul merasa mendapat kejutan saat melihat penghuni baru rumah Iggie, yang bersebelahan dengan rumahnya, tiba.
Tina, Herbie, dan Glenn adalah anak-anak keluarga Garber, keluarga negro pertama yang menjadi sahabat Winnie.Namun, bukan Winnie saja yang merasa mendapat kejutan.
Penghuni jalan di mana rumah Winnie dan keluarga Garber berada pun merasa demikian.
Ada penghuni yang begitu antipati dengan keberadaan keluarga negro di wilayah tempat tinggal mereka.
Begitu antipatinya, sampai-sampai mereka membuat petisi untuk memaksa keluarga Garber pindah ke wilayah lain, yang banyak orang negronya.Menjadi minoritas memang tidak menyenangkan.
I like the story because it was easy to understand and interesting, but I felt like something was missing after I read this book. This book isn't long, so you can read it in a couple of days if you like to read it.
I always thought this book felt like Blume was trying too hard...or not trying hard enough. I don't know - it just always feels like it's lacking.

Iggie’s House by Judy Blume is about a girl named Winnie who’s best friend Iggie just moved to Tokyo.
Iggie did tell her that someone special will be moving in to her house.
When Winnie finds out that the new family(the Garbers) are African American, she sets out to make a good impression.
After all, they are the only African American family on her street.
But the Garbers don’t want a good neighbor, they want a friend.Mrs.Landon, a neighbor, is not so accepting however and tries to get the Garbers to flee from the neighborhood.
This felt like such genuine book, especially the naïveté of the main character and the emotions/thoughts of 11-year-olds. Judy Blume books even have a hard time feeling dated (this was originally published in 1970).
This book is so important to discussions of race. Loved it!
Not Judy Blumes best work, but I did enjoy it.
Samantha loved this book.
I've been a fan of Judy Blume, ever since my fourth grade teacher read 'Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing' which was summed up as hilarious and enjoyable.
Iggie's house focuses on the friendships between two racial groups at a time of political racial and racism issues.The protagonist, Winnie Barringer's best friend Iggie moves to Tokyo.
When a black family: the Garbers, move into her old house, Winnie is fascinated as they are the first African-Americans in the neighbourhood.
'Iggie's House' is a poignant story of friendship, it focuses on racism, and the attitudes and views of people of a certain racial group towards another ethnic background.
This book is about a white girl in a town with no negro black nor colored people when a black family moves in to the white girls friends house.
note: I said the different names because her folks say negro the negro family say black and this stupid mean racist lady says colored.
Anyway the girl tries to make friends with them.
then things get hard.
like the kid Herbie the impossible.
mrs.
racist germ and little miss germ.
then the protest.
the moving.
in a world where a little girl is trying to get friends.
I would have given this book 4 stars if it had been longer. I love the concept, and the message behind the story. I just wish there was more or an epilogue to tell us more about the friendship between Winnie and the Grubers. I love Winnie's courage to step outside the norm. She went against what was popular at the moment and went with what is write. The line about the Grubers using the same peanut butter as Winnie's family was extremely profound to me. The message was very powerful.
once again, i love judy blume! her way of writing and connecting her characters to the reader is awesome. i really enjoyed this book, understanding what it's like meeting you new neighbors, not wanting to embarrass yourself or say something stupid.i hated when i had to close this book when i finished and turn it back into the library. i wish it would go on and tell a longer story.
This book shows that not everyone hated colored people, some didn't even care about skin color they just wanted to be friends. Others hated colored people without even knowing them. I loved this book a lot
Although my kids cringed at Winnie's naivete and the many times she puts her foot in her mouth, this book from the 70's about race relations is still plenty relevant for kids today, and sparked some good conversations as we listened on a car trip.
I wish it was longer :((((( Other than that, great!
Man, this book is STILL relevant, almost forty years later. How depressing.
Eh.
Rather heavy-handed YA novel on the evils of racism.
A few of my friends and I decided to start a book club.
Something I have honestly been wanting to do for as long as a I can remember, but has never happened.
We went one step further and made it a Judy Blume book club in the hopes of reading through all of her works starting chronologically - naturally.
Set during the 70s, it's about a young girl named Winnie, coming to terms with her best friend moving away and racism in her community when the Garber family move into Iggie's house.
I haven't read this book since I was in elementary school, not all that long after it was written and man, it took me back in time.
I could relate to the story completely having grown up in that time in a similar environment and hearing the same discussions.
Although it is definitely dated and many kids might not be able to relate to some of the situations, the theme running through the book is still relevant and I wish it was required reading for all late-elementary grades.
Her best friend, Iggie, has moved to Tokyo and her old house is being occupied by a new family, the Gerbers.
After Winnie discovers that her new neighbors aren't quite like the rest of the people in her neighborhood, she does her best to make friends with them.
Teaching: I would have students write a letter back to Winnie as if they were her old best friend, Iggie.
Throughout the book, Winnie writes multiple different letters to Iggie but never sends them.
If she were to send them, my students would write a letter back, providing advice on how to handle Germs, Inc., the Gerbers, and her parents.
As part of my children's literature class I had two choose two books written from the same author.
I reviewed Iggie's house and Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing(both written by Judy Blume).PlotIggie's House centers heavily on the topic of racism.The books is a bit outdated.
In my opinion, the book waters down racism to racist thoughts and a few racist behaviors.The book also made a comment on the impact of media.
This specific comment was about how media only pictured the rioters who stole and looted not those who were peaceful.
Judy Blume just gets it.
It's been probably 40 years since I first read this book (it was published in 1970), and I'm struck by how relevant it feels.
When Winnie's best friend Iggie moves away, the only consolation is that a family with kids is moving into Iggie's old house.
For Winnie, kids are kids - she's just happy to have someone to play with.
She offers no easy answers, and she offers no solutions, and especially no happy endings.
As I continue to read middle grade fiction, I wish this book was on every school reading list.
A reread from my childhood (published in 1970), I had forgotten how much I like Judy Blume and feisty Winnie.
I always love a strong, rebellious, critical thinking female character like Winnie.When her best friend moves away, Winnie is anxious to meet her new neighbors.
Winnie soon becomes close to the Garbers, but is shocked and offended to know not all her neighbors are as welcoming.
When tensions run high, Winnie must look at the views of her own family and must decide if she is brave enough to confront her loved one and her nosy, busy-body, racist neighbor and stick up for her new friends.
I really like this book.
I finally finished it tonight (or this morning, however you look at it).
I feel like it was missing more action, and could have been longer.
It left me wanting more, and because it is a stand-alone novel, that is why I gave it 3 stars.
I love Judy Blume and want to reread all of her books now that I am older.
I definitely love rereading older beloved texts because they become deeper and I find greater insight each time I reread them.
I finished this in one sitting (:
