https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11206.In_the_Time_of_the_Butterflies
Alvarez' family left the Dominican Republic in 1960 in the middle of the revolution to overthrow the dictatorial president Rafael Leonidas Trujillo.
In this fictional yet poignant account of the Mirabal sisters who came to be known as the symbol of the revolution, Alvarez reveals the fate of those left behind.
Using poetic prose, Alvarez writes how the three older Mirabal sisters and their youngest sister Maria Teresa "Mate" came of age to be modern women.
Through the courage and unwavering attitude of the Mirabal sisters and their families, the revolution occurred less than a year later.
I know Santo Domingo (view spoiler)[which is what the Dominican Republic is called in the Caribbean (hide spoiler)] and I'm familiar with the bloody, murderous Trujillo regime so I was extremely disappointed with the sickly treatment of such an important subject.This story is about the four Mirabal sisters who opposed the Trujillo regime resulting in the assassination of three of them.
I would rather have read an unembellished non-fiction book about the sisters leaving out the silliness, invented dialogue and all that goes into writing a semi-historical novel.
Towards the end of the story, before the impending tragedy strikes, the oldest (and easily the bravest) sister is remembering a moment from her youth...
and on the contrary, how much fear she did feel, how she couldn't breathe, how she didn't know if she could do it...
Feeling the fear, and walking right into it.
It really spoke to me at the time; I'd leapt into this crazy adventure, all by myself, with a backpack and a map, in the middle of nowhere, at a young age...
I had never read such an apt description of what that feels like.
Knowing it is based upon real events makes it all the more poignant, and Alvarez has done a magnificent job of breathing life back into these women who were martyred for the cause of freedom in the Dominican Republic.
While Minerva is the star of the revolution, each of the other sisters brings her own personality, fears and desires to the table and we, the readers, are handed a feast.
For I wanted to immerse my readers in an epoch in the life of the Dominican Republic that I believe can only finally be understood by fiction, only finally be redeemed by the imagination.
Smudgy words of a wounded family tree, the very human lasting lamentation...There are two novels* in existence (that I am wholly aware of) that put the D.R. under the Trujillo regime under a magnifying glass that illuminates the complexities, the ugliness, of absolute dictatorships (to be deftly simplistic) and fraught societal norms (to say the least).
Definitely a major work of Latin American Historical fiction (the other perfect novel that is a companion piece in many respects to this is Mario Vargas Llosa's opus "The Feast of the Goat"*).Basically, it's "Little Women" in hell.
I hate reviewing books that I only found mediocre.
Frankly, I really didn't know much about Trujillo's dictatorship in the Dominican Republic and I thought by reading this I would learn a lot..
I also think that in this case, it was me, not the book.
Just like when a boyfriend breaks up with his girlfriend and says "Its me, not you." I did however appreciate it for what it was: An enlightening story about a dark time in Latin American history.
I also am grateful that I completed it and learned about this time period.
I'm not an Alvarez fan, but I enjoyed getting a fictionalized glimpse into a part of Dominican Republican history.
Once again, I was so frustrated by history.
But, I was encouraged in Alvarez's afterword when she commented that she gave herself room to fictionalize the characters because the Maribel sisters have become so mythic that they are almost superhuman, but through her book, we can see that any one of us can be as courageous as Patria, Dede, Minerva, and Mate.And although, this book really is a 3 for me, I gave it 4 stars because of the afterword and the epilogue.
More than a few times I found myself baffled while reading, confused over sequences of events (as the POV--sometimes with first person narration (view spoiler)[ even as we know from the opening pages that that sister is one of three that is assassinated by novel's end...so how is she telling her own story?
(hide spoiler)], other times with third person omniscient narration, still other times in epistolary format as Alvarez shifts focus from sister to sister) and trying to understand who's who amid the cavalcade of characters rolled out.Despite my reservations, I'm glad I read this novel, and glad to have finally acquainted myself with Ms. Alvarez' work.
A strong desire to understand this particular time period, and what happened to Las Mariposas, caused Alvarez to write this book.This book is told in alternating first person POVs from each of the four sisters over a period of 22 years.
That said, I would have liked to have seen more interactions between the characters and have more of an understanding of why Alvarez's characters made the choices they did.
This has inspired one of those moments when I need to absorb D.R. history through osmosis because I want to know everything right now!
I'm glad this was brought to my attention by the year of reading women selection because it's an amazing story and an important piece of radical history.
As other reviewers note, by focussing on the personal and making the sisters distinct (even idiosyncratic) and flawed Alvarez demonstrates that extraordinary courage comes from people like you and I (Malala Yousefzai's book comes to mind here).
Patria's self-awareness seemed extraordinary, and her religious faith challenged my (generally negative) perceptions of Catholicism and faith generally.
I appreciated Alvarez's focus on women; the many men in the story remain peripheral.
Until I picked this up, I didn't realize that the Dominican Republic had such a turbulent past.
Thus, the book has been educational as well as entertaining.In the sixties there was rebellion.
This book follows four sisters.
Her constant rebellion fuels the others and she plays a very strong role in the revolution.
I really felt I was getting to know all of the sisters, their thoughts, their feelings, their doubts, and their reasons for going against Trujillo.
Who is this one going to take?A movie came out in 2010..not based on this book, but about Minerva Mirabel.

Julia Alvarez does a great job of not only drawing the reader in, but also keeping their interest.Set in the Dominican Republic in a time of intense conflict and war, the Miribal sisters must decide if and how to fight the oppression they, and the entire country, are facing.
As the reader keeps reading, they become more and more emotionally invested in the livelihood of the sisters and makes them hold on to every word.I would strongly recommend In the Time of the Butterflies to anyone who enjoys reading a book with intense action but also an emotional connect.
This is Julia Alvarez's take on the reign of the Dominican dictator Trujillo and the brave Mirabal sisters who sacrificed their comfortable lives to form a resistance against him.
I also read about them on Wikipedia and watched a short video about the sister who survived.
Julia Alvarez created this story from a few pieces of known facts; the background is of her imagination, based on some truths.
But even so, it serves as an inspiration to the oppressed and especially women of the world to stand up to injustices of all kinds.
I do recommend, but with some reservations because, until the final chapters, I thought the story extremely slow moving.
I read this in Spanish because I thought it was originally written in Spanish, being written by a Dominican author and set in the Dominican Republic.
But no; it was written in English and I just got some extra reading practice.
It is the story of the real-life Mirabal sisters, who were members of the underground resistance to the Dominican dictator Trujillo.
The story is told over many years in separate chapters from the points of view of all four sisters, reflecting their very different personalities and motivations, the view of the youngest told through her diary entries.
A must-read for women and revolutionaries.
I loved this fictionalised account of the lives and deaths of the Mirabal sisters. The author gives each sister a distinct voice and motivation for rebelling against the Trujillo regime. She makes them very human and flawed and I think that makes the reader really think about what can give a person the courage to stand up for what they believe. Highly recommended.
I'll probably write a half-assed review of this book at some point in the future.
But since I had to read it for school, I will have to analyse the shit out of it in class, and right now it's the summertime and I don't want to think any more about In the Time of the Butterflies than I absolutely have to.EDIT 10/15/15: So here's my astoundingly brilliant review...
This book sucks.
I shouldn't say it sucks, I should say that I didn't like it, but any way you phrase it, this book bored the shit out of me.
Nobody touch me. I'm so emotional right now. This book is heartbreaking.
The author wants to wipe out the mythic status of these women so that we readers can more easily relate to them as four individuals, four different women with different personality traits.
Something went wrong with this presentation: I frequently had to flip back to check which of the girls was speaking or when the events were occurring.The bottom line is: I did NOT relate to the girls that well.
I think it is admirable that the author wants us to relate to the sisters on a personal level.
I found myself at times wondering "Now, which sister am I reading about?" and flipping back to the beginning of the chapter to find out, which tells me the author didn't do a very good job of giving each character their unique voice.This book was written as a totally fictional account of the four sisters based on the author's perception of what their lives might have been like, which took something away from it for me.
I would rather have read a true account by an author who had researched their lives.
There are so many people out there that give it all for the wellbeing of the community, even their lives while I just live my confortable little existence and do nothing for others, made me feel ashamed about that.
There was a small part in the book where I thought "do I really need to know about all this little girl's thoughts?" but then later on when she grows up and goes through hardship, because I knew her I felt so much more the worse about her experience, I felt the Mariposas were my sisters, my cousins, my friends ...
This is a fictionalized account of the lives of the four Mirabal sisters, Patria, Dede, Minerva, and Maria Teresa.
This part is a little more slow moving, but interesting.The second part of the book tells about their participation with their husbands in the revolution intended to overthrow Trujillo, and the subsequent imprisonment of all but Dede.
Patria, Minerva, and Maria Teresa were murdered by the Trujillo regime on November 25, 1960 while on their way home from one of these visits.
Her personal knowledge of the life and culture of the Dominican Republic gives this story a nice colorful authenticity.
Gorgeous writing!!!
Alvarez said that though she did a lot of research she took some creative liberties by inventing and collapsing details, but she ultimately wanted to bring out the spirit of the Mirabal sisters as she imagined them.
Alvarez wanted to look at the Mirabal sisters as humans, behind the legends and myths, as people who felt fear, doubt, hesitation and weariness.
But to me the impact goes beyond just connecting with the Mirabals and their particular situation.
Alvarez created such distinct personalities in each of the sisters, which I think gives us present readers some hope that courage can take so many forms and sizes.
Her writing and storytelling is really masterful.
Take four sisters, add the backdrop of the oppressive Trujillo regime of the Dominican Republic, include the fizz of drama and voila!
introducing In the Time of the Butterflies.
When I picked up this book I hoped I wasn't in for a depressing read.
To my delight, it was one of the best reads of the past year.
The Trujillo oppression is the skeleton of the book, but the drama of the sisters lives is the focus.
This keeps the book positive.In the Time of the Butterflies is a good read for anyone wanting to know more about what life was like under the Trujillo regime.
She took the stories of famous Dominican revolutionaries and fictionalized pretty much their entire lives.
Reading it, I was always questioning what was "real" and what was an Alvarezation.
When I finished it, I had a little cry (right there on the train) and wondered about the importance of which parts were "true."It's no secret, historically or in the novel, that the sisters are going to be killed.
Alvarez makes sure we know that right from the start.
Still, the writing propels the story and builds suspense.She creates a distinct personality for each sister, letting them take turns as narrators.
A few months after her family's exile, the same secret police would murder three brave sisters on a remote mountain road, along with their driver.
Indelibly impacted by all these events as a youth, the author returned to her island home as an adult writer to begin the work that would become this fascinating and timely story.
In part I of the book, the sisters are children living in the family home and attending a Catholic school.
Part II of their story is told in the first person by a fourth surviving sister.
It's a good story of a heroic family, well told.
I’d rather have had a non-fiction book about the Mirabal sisters.
I’d like to read other books by this author.
I’ve heard her speak a couple times, and I’ve always come away favorably impressed.I loved the humor in the book.
And I’d like to read more about this period in this place.
I always think about what I was doing at the time, and how different my life was, and how ignorant I was.I read this for my real world book club, and I finished it late, a first for me, but not because I wasn’t enjoying my reading experience.
Four smart and lovely sisters growing Up during Trujillo's regime, their parents try to cling to security and imagine a life for their daughters far from any danger, a haven in Ojo del Agua, but reality always cuts like a knife and tears the lives of the best ones.
Patria,Dede,Minerva and Mate are not bond to live unnotice, they are fierce and bold, willing to fight injustice.
Minerva is the most passionate but their sisters quickly follow suit.Julia Álvarez writes their story through different voices, the sweetest being young Mate's diary.
They will remain inspiring strong-willed beautiful butterflies with iron wings.
Last book that was half read on the plane and half in a jet-lagged state was In the Time of Butterflies.
At least I missed the two unfortunate women sitting next to me...Besides the wiggly and alcoholic state of the book, I actually liked the book.
I am hesitant when there are a few narrators and they they use diaries to describe their life events etc.
It has first person narration, scribbles in personal diaries as well as third person observations about the....This post was briefly interrupted by the fact that I tried to shift my weight on my computer chair by leaning on one arm and moving my body.
Their sacrifice, during the Trujillo regime, made me question what I would be willing to sacrifice for freedom and it made me think about my sister.
The image that made me cry and made me angry was of the sisters standing in the garden one night looking back at the lit house as their mama bustles around getting their children ready for bed.
Alvarez says they look at the house with longing as if they were already dead and wishing to watch their children grow up.
I wondered while I read if it haunted Dede that her sisters died in fear.
