https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158217.Journey_by_Moonlight
Το φεγγαρόφωτοπαρέα με τους νεανικούς έρωτες,την ξενοιασιά των εφηβικών εσωτερικών αναζητήσεων,τους ευσεβείς πόθους για επιτυχία στη ζωή,την επιβολή της γυναικείας σαγήνης στους πάντα ανώριμους ανδρικούς πόθους,την πραγματικότητα,τη συμβατικότητα,την ωρίμανση,και την όψιμη επανάσταση που καταντάει επαναστατημένη και αποτυχημένη στάση ζωής.
Φτάνει η στιγμή του απολογισμού των χαμένων προορισμών και ονείρων και στο μέτρημα των ανταλλαγών για την ευτυχία και την ολοκλήρωση υπερτερούν κατα πολύ οι επιβεβλημένες επιθυμίες και οι αναγκαστικές δεσμεύσεις.
Ο Ταξιδιώτης μας μπλέκει στην κατάκτηση της αυτογνωσίας οπλισμένος με απωθημένα,φαντάσματα,ενοχές,δεσμεύσεις και μια εξιδανικευμένη παιδική εμμονή για το κορίτσι των εφηβικών του παθών.
Antal Szerb manages with his novel “Yolcu ve Ayisigi” to set a deep regressive element, the unfulfilled dreams of youth, which shape the life of every adult in some way.
This psychological novel captivates with its diversity.
In beautiful sentences Antal Szerb illustrates the Tuscan Villages and the Umbrain villages.
He writes wonderfully calm, poetic and full of symbolism and each sentence is a pleasure to read.
The book describes the process of self-discovery, because each of the described characters is searching for the meaning of his life.
With a clear, understandable and perfectly fitting language the author manages to get the readers full concentration.
There is no escape from it, there is no cure.Hungarian newlyweds Mihály and Erzsi are taking in the pleasures of Tuscany by train, after a stay in Venice before heading on to Rome.
Mihály, lives a conventional bourgeois life, part of his father's firm and set up reasonably well financially, you would think he is a man with no problems.
Although this flashback sequence is pivotal to the whole novel, the great thing also, is that it goes on for some time and reads like a Superbly told short-story itself.
First of all, let me tell you as a Hungarian who read the novel both in Hungarian and in English that the translation is simply brilliant.
The hard part is, why I love this book so much.There are people who like entertaining the idea that they are simply not of this world.
The main character, Mihály certainly likes to think of himself as such a person.
And that is what makes Antal Szerb such wonderful writer: you truly believe he has The Insight into the human mind & heart & soul.
Anyway, I feel extra-guilty for giving this book heave-ho because Antal Szerb is a Jew who died in a concentration camp.
I realize this fate has nothing whatsoever to do with his abilities as a writer of fiction, but books by Jews who die in concentration camps should be good books, or better than this book.
This is exactly the kind of decadent art that had Hitler cowering behind his landscape paintings and his collection of Greek nudes.
which is all very fine and good if the book gives me an entryway into the individual's crisis (for lack of a better word) and not a droning nothingness.
In other words, marketing is the last great art.
Çünkü okuma sırasında ve sonrasında kendi araştırmalarım doğrultusunda bulduğum olguların, bu kitabın "bence neden çok özel bir kitap olduğunun bir nevi savı aynı zamanda da yeni okuyacaklar için önemli bir yol haritası meydana getirecek ve bunun yanında kurgusal yapının da bu genel çerçeve dahilinde daha da anlaşılır kılacaktır."En başta belirttiğim gibi Yolcu ve Ayışığı’nı tarifsiz kılan en büyük temellerden biri, Antal Szerb’in kendisi tahmin edebileceğimiz gibi.
Tragedya etkisini Szerb, seçtiği diğer yan karakterlerde de çok net bir şekilde görünür kılınıyor.Kitap 4 bölümden oluşuyor.
Yaşam ve anın önemini, müthiş derece antik yunana ve rönesansa göndermelerle yapan harika bir kitap.
Nazilerin korkunç toplama kamplarında yitmiş başka bir büyük isim. Kötülüğün sınırı yokmuş galiba...Mihaly karakteri modernist ve post-modernist metinlerde karşımıza sık sık çıkan tutunamayan, arayış halinde, drifted, boşlukta sallanan karakterlerden biri. Elbette bu duygudan kurtulmak için yazıya da sığınmayan karakterimiz teselliyi nostalji, dinler tarihi ve ölüm-cinsellik arasında gidegelen bir varoluşta buluyor. O kadar çaresiz ve zavallı olduğunu hissediyor ki okuyucu, ben kendim bile hadi intihar et de sen de kurtul ben de kurtulayım dedim içimden... Kitabın sonu ders verme ve yergi niteliğinde olduğundan biraz hafif ve yavan geldi... Ama sözün özü Mihaly karakterini hiç unutmayacağım....
This is the sort of book I love...one that you come across somewhere (in this case, a castle library in Italy) and feel sure that it was hiding there all this time, waiting for you to find it.
The novel also follows Mihaly's wife and her point of view in sections (she takes up a new life in Paris, rather than returning to Budapest), and there is a very funny letter from her first husband to Mihaly early on in the novel.
A rich novel, one that is idiosyncratic and mysterious, unclassifiable: the best sort.
It is not that kind of allegory.It is Mihály who steps off, stepping off the train during his honeymoon in Italy.
But, to keep the story going, he does not know that.Chasing Éva.
......Silent Bob: So there's me and Amy, and we're all inseparable, right?
I mean, I was raised Catholic, for God's sake.Jay: Saint Shithead.Silent Bob: So I'm totally weirded out by this, right?
I don't know how to deal with what I'm feeling, so I figure the best way is by calling her a slut, right?
I'm like, "Oh, really?" That's when I look her straight in the eye, I tell her it's over.
Δεν ξέρω αν έχει συμβεί και σε άλλους αλλά εξαφανίζονται βιβλία!!! Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο το είχα διαβάσει πριν 1-2 χρόνια αλλά το σχόλιο μου χάθηκε και το βιβλίο "έφυγε" από τα ράφια μου.Σε επικοινωνία με το Goodreads μου είπαν ένα σωρό βλακείες με συμπέρασμα "αν θέλετε ξαναπροσθέστε το στα ράφια σας και γράψτε και σχόλιο πάλι".
On one of their next train journeys, Mihály gets separated, boards the wrong train and, instead of rejoining his bride, spends much of the rest of the book on his own, visiting a number of other hill towns in central Italy and eventually winding up in Rome.
It is a quotation full of paradoxes: "mutinously" and yet "law and order"; the world that both "accepts and rejects." If such riddles intrigue you, and you want to spend a few days with an author who writes in a constant state of spiritual intoxication, then stop reading me and reach for the Szerb.
'Journey by Moonlight' ('Utas és holdvilág'), published in 1937, is widely considered as Szerb's masterpiece, but I must confess that I liked 'The Pendragon Legend' - his first novel - a hint more.Nevertheless, this novel came very close to the intellectual pleasure I felt while reading Szerb's previous work and is considered a milestone of Hungarian literature.Antal Szerb had the rare talent to combine serious and farcical elements into his novels.
What we have into this one is a post-wedding personality crisis of a Hungarian man - Mihaly - who is still tied to his adolescence, prone to womanising and cannot really cope with the social and moral responsabilities brought by adulthood.From the very first sentence of the book, we know that something odd is going to happen to Mihaly.
So, I am pleased and relieved to report that Journey by Moonlight is both easy to read and enjoyable, and this English translation by Len Rix, from the original Hungarian, is beautiful.Journey by Moonlight is concerned with that hoary old chestnut, life, what’s it all about?
Whilst on his honeymoon, Mihály has a crisis which sees him looking back on his past and considering the best way to live his life.Journey by Moonlight is a wonderfully subtle, surprising and original book.
According to Pushkin Press, who published this English edition of this book in 2001, Antal Szerb (1901-1945) was a writer, scholar, critic and translator born to Jewish parents but baptised Catholic.
Journey by Moonlight is an apt title for this surreal story about a Hungarian man, Mihaly, longing for the world of his youth and taking an emotional journey to his future.
Images of death lurk in the background as Mihaly moves through his Italian journey of self-discovery.
Meanwhile, his wife is on her own, making her personal discoveries, and deciding what she wants in life.There are many moments of dark humor in the book.
Journey by Moonlight is an unusual and entertaining book where the reader should just go with the flow, and see where author Antal Szerb takes you.

Granted, it's hard to read when you've just fallen in love, with a woman with three rowdy sons, and moved house 1000kms, and when you're not absorbed in deep conversation or communion or trying to entertain or discipline children can hardly focus your thoughts for wondering and hoping and worrying about the future.
BUT how glorious it would be to have a decent book to escape into now and then!
You want to know what it's like, try early Paul Auster with a slight bit more naturalness and less weirdness (and a lot more sociology, rudimentary as it is).
Sim, este homem gosta de mulheres...
não gosta delas por ser homem, mas por elas serem mulheres amáveis, que merecem ser amadas.
E, se calhar, isso é o máximo que uma mulher pode desejar."Antal Szerb nasceu em Budapeste em 1901, numa família judia convertida ao catolicismo.
Nesta demanda, dois poderes se cruzam: o Amor e a Morte; em que o desejo pelo ser amado pode ser tão devastador como a tentação pelo nada..."As coisas são assim: desejamos alguém de maneira obsessiva e perdidamente, no limiar entre o Inferno e a morte, procuramos essa pessoa, perseguimo-la em vão e a nossa vida consome-se por essa nostalgia."(Mikalojus Konstantinas Čiurlionis, Night)"...
I love how wherever they were, the main characters would refer to their home city of Budapest affectionately as Pest.I hope this is enough to entice you because the rest contains SPOILERS.(view spoiler)[Mihaly, the main protagonist, had a bohemian youth, together with his companions Tamas and Eva. They were rebellious, treated life like one big drama, always acting and putting up a front.
When Tamas committed suicide, you can imagine the impact on Mihaly.
(Now why would you confess something like that….) There is also a hint of an incestuous relationship between Tamas and Eva, but it is not revealed.
Like most Hungarian fiction I've read - there is no clear judgement of the characters and their behavior, no saints beyond reproach, no sinners beyond understanding.
Like many have said - this is one of the best books I've ever read and Szerb ranks among Europe's greatest writers.
I guess that some will not enjoy this because the "warts and all" depictions of the characters.
But who that's read Proust didn't want to smack the living crap out of most of the characters and the writer himself for all their neurotic indulgences?
But in fact it is delightfully funny, its Magyar gloom lightened by a rush through Italy - Perugia, Gubbio, Assisi, the Umbrian plain, an innocent American art history student, ghosts, complicated sexuality perfectly and simply described, and, like all great artists, very sound on fellatio.
I regret the years I have lived without knowing that he was the real thing - while having wasted so much time trying unsuccessfully to enjoy all the other "novelists from the other Europe" Philip Roth used to try to flog.
Just seventeen when the Empire collapsed in military defeat, his student years saw the bloody community revolution of 191, foreign occupation, the 'white terror' and the Second World War. His technically Jewish ancestry [Szerb was Catholic] and his lifelong stance against fascism attracted mounting official persecution from the age of thirty-seven, and he died horribly, at forty-three, in the forced labor camp at Balf.…As a despairing colleague wrote: "He knew everything."The Faliscan proverb suddenly sounds like prophecy.I read this in the Pushkin Press edition, and only when I was halfway through did I happen to notice that it was republished last month by NYRB.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
It's beautiful, creates a fascinating atmosphere and every now and then, when you least expect it, you bump into some random sentence that cracks you up or is thought-provoking or otherwise impressive.The feeling I got from this was somehow quite close to Daphne du Maurier's novels, though Szerb adds more humour and you can clearly see that he was an academic humanist.
I found some lovely self-irony hidden in the parts about academic research and university world, though the image wasn't as strong as with "The Pendragon Legend".
The way death is present throughout the story and how different characters relate to it is also fascinating.
Well written, unusual, original, occasionally deeply insightful into human nature and overall an enjoyable read. So very good - but it is not a masterpiece. Sometimes the characters are a little 2 dimensional and the storyline in parts feels forced. These are forgivable as I say it is very good, but I don’t think quite as wonderful as some reviews imply.
P. 163- "Os olhos de Mihály encheram-se de lágrimas. Aqui descansa Keats, o maior poeta de todos os tempos... mesmo que não tenha sentido essa emoção, porque o corpo há muito tempo desapareceu e os seus poemas guardam mais fielmente a sua alma do que qualquer túmulo. Mas é grandioso e tipicamente inglês o modo tão inocentemente falso de respeitar a sua última vontade, mas ao mesmo tempo indicar claramente debaixo de que lápide estava Keats a descansar."P. 258- "A vida não é uma forma, é uma mistura complexa dos géneros."
I don't really have words for why I loved this book so much.
There are a lot of things about it that I can see not appealing to people, but somehow I really adored it.
The atmosphere is very strong and I love all the travelling in Europe and brooding about life and death and the displays of the author's huge cultural knowledge that don't come across as snobbish but just natural.
But I'm afraid I can't really explain what appealed to me so much about this book, it's something that either speaks to you or doesn't.
The actual novel is not as good as the cover art. The prose is in translationese, the plot artificial, the characters are somewhat cardboardish. Could have skipped this one. Finished more out of guilt than necessity.
Teríamos a coragem de dizer NÃO QUERO esta existência e partir para uma outra bem mais desconfortável, mais limitada, mais deficitária nos aspetos financeiros, tudo isso em nome da procura de uma paixão amorosa, questionável nas suas intenções e, ainda por cima, decorrente do tempo da adolescência, esse momento em que tudo nos parece possível?
Mantemos sempre uma postura inadequada à nossa idade, à nossa experiência de vida ao ponto de, na idade adulta, ainda querermos morrer por essa paixão desmerecedora talvez das nossas melhores intenções?São essas questões que este extraordinário livro nos coloca.
Whilst Mihaly wallows in a combination of self-pity, nostalgia and a sense of confusion that has him bouncing from point to point, bumping into people from his past.Mihaly as a character shouldn’t inspire our sympathy, apart from his treatment of his bride, he is self-absorbed to the extent that he appears to believe no one else has an inner live, he’s vain, withdrawn, has a combination of amorality & yet appears to be guilt ridden, in fact it’s quite hard to find many redeeming features at all and yet you’ll laugh at him, with him - you’ll want to shake him up just to wake him up, and then pick him up when he falls – as he will.This is one of those books that although a lot happens, nothing really changes, it was first published in 1937.
While in Rome a Hungarian religious historian convinces him that having come from a vagina his death should also be a return to one by dying through an erotic act involving a woman, the aspect of the Earth Mother, in Mihaly's case his childhood infatuation Eva. By Chapter XX he's experiencing Rome as hell in all its grotesqueries and in the same way Yossarian takes a night journey through Rome in Chapter 39 of Catch-22.
