https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261521.Chicago
I spent a few days in Chicago once and think about the place often.
None of the locals would give me a straight answer to the question: "Where is everybody?" I spent a few days cycling around Lake Michigan with a Swiss guy I met, and at one point, as we stopped to watch an enigmatic single rose floating on the water, he said "I think I love this city." I agree, andI will go back one day to figure out why.
How strange to read this beautifully written book and realise how much Sydney and Chicago have in common.
This is one of the best things I've ever happened upon--Algren's name is legendary, but I've mostly overlooked him.
Too much of this book is too much good to comment on.
On top of that, there's a soft spot for artists and poets run through the whole thing.
Whether or not that's a book worth the reading, I couldn't say.
For me, it's an exemplary American effort, over and beyond the facile complaints of the upper-middleclass so haunts our fiction--here the sweat and tears of Dreiser, Masters, Sandburg, find comment and expansion.
This is my first time reading Algren, which I think is a crime when I have lived in Chicago my whole life.
Any life-long Chicagoan must read Algren.
I read the preface, the essay, the afterword and even the editor's biographies in Chicago: City on the Make, but I do believe I will need to read it again.
Well, frankly, I had difficulty penetrating Algren's thick, weighty, poetic prose.
What Algren was really writing about.
This edition provides amazing assistance with the notes in the back, but ultimately I found myself simultaneously embracing and fighting with Algren's prose.
This essay is greatness, and my love of greatness, especially Chicago greatness, warrants an additional read.
Sadly, reading this book only reinforced to me that, for better or worse, the old Chicago is a thing of the past...much like Vegas, it is an image to be sold to tourists but the reality is a sanitized version of something that hasn't existed for a long time.
One thing that Algren does get right that I don't expect will ever change is that once you've lived here a while, you will love this old whore of a town more than she can ever love you (paraphrased/juxtaposed from several of the author's own words...although I don't think he ever calls her an old whore...that's all me.
But CITY ON THE MAKE, written shortly after Algren received the National Book Award for THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM, took the romanticization of Chicago's street smart sharpsters and corrupt politicians to heights achieved by no one else.
The local gentry did not like the mirror that Algren held up to their city.As a long time resident of Chicago, I did not love CITY ON THE MAKE either -- but, of course, I read it 60 years after the fact.
The Afterword was written by Algren himself in 1961, for a 10 year anniversary edition of the book.
I did not realize this was a "prose poem," whatever the fuck that is. DNF.
After completing Never Come Morning and Chicago: City on the Make, I may have to declare Nelson Algren as one of my top five favorite authors.
Algren uses many of his pages here to detail the horrors of city life, elevating Chicago to prime exemplar.
But Algren cannot simply disparage Chicago; he loves this city and he loves the people that populate it.
In what are, perhaps, my favorite lines of the poem, Algren proclaims, "Yet once you’ve come to be part of this particular patch, you’ll never love another.
With a wonderful introduction by Studs Terkel and a brilliant afterword by Algren himself, I found that once I got started I had a hard time putting it down.I loved Algren's use of colorful language and felt that he made many statements that still hold true today.
Such as: "The hard necessity of bringing the judge on the bench down into the dock has been the particular responsibility of the writer in all ages of man.
In Chicago, in our own curious span, we have seesawed between blind assault and blind counter-assault, hanging men in one decade for beliefs which, in another, we honor others."Algren is a witty, smart man, and a wonderful writer.
"By days when the wind bangs alley gates ajar and the sun goes by on the wind. By nights when the moon is an only child above the measured thunder of the cars, you may know Chicago's heart at last."
But it’s also a place that disappoints me in the way that only a hometown could.
Nelson Algren expresses some true crestfallen despondency toward Chicago in the way that only a person with a natal connection to a hometown could.
It’s the power and beauty of his prose that makes it sting even more.
Hometown resentment is a powerful force of nature.
At the end of the day though I’ll take Sandburg’s “Chicago” over this — the sweatier, more vibrant, hopeless but proud Chicago.“You’ll know it’s the place built out of Man’s ceaseless failure to overcome itself.
Algren, especially in the late 40s and early 50s, was writing in a transitional period in American history between the interwar and Depression era that was his formative period and the setting for many of his major works, and the more affluent but alienated and culturally dead period of the early Cold War – between H-Bomb and A, if you will.
Really only Hunter S Thompson came as close, and then only rarely.Writing prior to Vietnam, and indeed prior to a long series of wars since Vietnam, the following passage really gets at the timelessness of what Chicago: City on the Make is getting at:“You can see the boys who stopped caring in 1918 under the city arc-lamps yet.
Small wonder we've had trouble growing up."The very toughest sort of town, they'll tell you–that's what makes it so American."Yet it isn't any tougher at heart than the U.S.A. is tough at heart, for all her ships at sea.
Americans everywhere face gunfire better than guilt."Making this not only the home park of the big soap-chip and sausage-stuffing tycoons, the home cave of the juke-box giants and the mail-order dragons, the knot that binds the TV waves to the airlanes and the railroad ties to the sea, but also the psychological nerve center where the pang goes deepest when the whole country is grinding its teeth in a nightmare sleep."There, unheard by the millions who ride the waves above and sleep, and sleep and dream, night after night after night, loving and well-beloved, guarding and well guarded, beats the great city's troubled heart."And on, and on.
This book is important if just for that moment it occupies: I think today it's hard to be in Chicago and imagine it pre-Daley, and I use the word imagine with all the etymological baggage: to literally create an image of the city.Algren will give you some of that.
Algren spends this book not just setting up shop, but digging out a foundation, laying brickwork, and throwing rocks at everyone that walks by: everywhere is done, and he calls Detroit a "a parking lot about a stadium" (mid-Century urban renewal burn!).But at the root of it all is the engine that propels so much of Chicago love and Chicago discussion forward: the inferiority complex.
1961 Algren is sad that an old German beer garden was replaced by a cocktail lounge.
But this is actually a prose-poem about Chicago written by one who grew up there.
It reads a bit like Shakespeare in that Algren uses so much antiquated slang and he references so many people and places that only Chicagoans would recognize that I had to constantly flip to the helpful endnotes for explanations.
Algren has a tough, punchy writing style that takes a bit of getting used to but ultimately gives the prose its poetic feel.
I appreciated the writing but didn't really learn much about Chicago.
'It isn't hard to love a town for its greater and its lesser towers, its pleasant parks or its flashing ballet. Or for its broad and bending boulevards, where the continuous headlights follow, one dark driver after the next, one swift car after another, all night, all night and all night. But you never truly love it till you can love its alleys too. Where the bright and morning faces of old familiar friends now wear the anxious midnight eyes of strangers a long way from home.'One of my favorite quotes. And a great encapsulation of a complex town.
Spectacular. Pure poetry, and truly a love story to his city -- which, Algren claims, must be loved the way you love 'a woman with a broken nose.' I read it in one sitting, and I want to read it again. Get THIS edition, though, and read Studs Terkel's intro. The footnoting is vital but not cumbersome. All in all, it made me want to simultaneously cry helplessly AND get another Chicago-themed tattoo. And I'm pretty sure that's precisely how Algren wants us to feel.
Poetic, a must-read for Chicagoans. I found the annotations to be a little cumbersome; they're listed at the end of the book by page. Flipping back and forth disrupted the flow and effect of Algren's work.
read this brilliant piece out loud. to your cat if necessary. (not recommended on public transportation.)(doesn't necessarily withstand a second reading. oh well, we'll let the rating stand.)
This slim gem is a dog-ear-every-other-pager.
Both professions requiring the same essential hope of something for nothing and a soft-as-goosefeathers way to go.
A portage too for the fabulous engines: the Harvester, the sleeping car and the Bessemer Process." (69)"I submit that literature is made upon any occasion that a challenge is put to the legal apparatus by conscience with a touch of humanity." (81)"Mediocrity is wanted.
And mediocrity will not put up with originality." (88)"I too wish to defend my city from people who keep saying it is crooked.
I'm tired of hearing detractors of my city say it is broo-tul.
What's so broo-tul about that?
Grateful I had an annotated copy, I would have been lost without the references, and I grew up in the area and have lived here for 20 years now. So I'd like to reread this now that I know some of the references more and can read it without breaking the flow. But a fascinating portrait of the city, one that makes me love it even more. And the language is lovely and thrilling, it would be good to read this out loud.
Even the footnotes are interesting. The meat of the book is a prose poem--or series of prose poems--about Chicago. Then there's an essay written 10 years later, responding to critics who found the book too negative. And then there are explanatory notes by contemporary scholars. The writing is vital and often really angry. Interesting for folks who know Chicago.
It took strength not to quote a few passages from this into my feed, but I was worried once I started I wouldn't stop.
Controversial in its day, now a classic shot through with evocative allusions. This edition with endnotes by Bill Savage is a necessity given the obscurity of many of the references.
"An October sort of city even in spring." Algren's prose supplies a multitude of lines like this that create a tone that wonderfully encapsulates the city of Chicago.
Beautiful writing and insightful reflections. However, it is topical and an understanding of context is key to reading this work.
which is silly of course because I think of it and I write in it as if it's not a space for anyone but me, but it is, and I have accepted the friend requests of other people, and the long self-indulgent ramblings are public.
"a lovely so real." on wednesday my history professor said, I think Chicago was greyer in the nineteen-eighties.
but i am trying to read and to think as best i can, and i want to stay in chicago this summer, and i want to straddle, as algren so toughly did, the lovely and the real.
Not really sure what I can say in offering, other than that this is a natural work of fiction that enterprises a city now defunct in its depiction. It's a good place, perhaps, to start with Algren; or, The Man With the Golden Arm; or, Never Come Morning. The point is he's a writer to read, and to think about, beyond the Sinatra and Preminger adaptation of TMWTGA. It's going to take a while to digest this one, even with - or because of - the paucity of this volume.
To the west a sea of grass as far as wind might reach....Till between the waters and the wind came the marked-down derelicts with the dollar signs for eyes.""Not that there’s been any lack of honest men and women sweating out Jane Addams’ hopes here—but they get only two outs to the inning while the hustlers are taking four....
And since it’s a ninth-inning town, the ball game never being over till the last man is out, it remains Jane Addams’ town as well as Big Bill’s.
Algren's book of little essays about Chicago reads like poetry at times, fierce and beautiful.
He loves Chicago, its hustler heart, and despises what it can be and what it eventually became.
I need to find an annotated version - even knowing a good deal of Chicago history, too many of his references went past me and that took something away from the book.
Where the bright and morning faces of old familiar friends now wear the anxious midnight eyes of strangers a long way from home." 	And on the suburbs:"For the beat of the city's enormous heart, at the forge in the forest behind the towers, is unheard out in this spiritual Sahara.
