https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328529.Brave_Men
A frank and honest depiction of the reality of front-line warfare in the second World War and the soldiers that fought it through the eyes of celebrated journalist Ernie Pyle.
Building throughout the book from the invasion of Sicily, the grueling mountainous fighting in Italy, preparation for and landing on D-Day in Normandy, and the triumphant push and march through Paris, Pyle's words portray the increasing wear and tear of war on the humanity involved, both as combatants and civilians, coming to its peak in the final brief and beautiful chapter, "The Last Word".
This collection of dispatches from renowned WWII correspondent Ernie Pyle can grow almost tedious and repetitive at times, because it deals solely with the experiences of U.S. soldiers fighting the Germans, first in north Africa, then in Sicily and Italy, and finally in Normandy, France.
Pyle writes: One officer went into an orchard to try to find where the tanks were.
There's snipers all around and they'll shoot at a cigarette." The officer crushed the cigarette in his fingers, not waiting to drop it to the ground, and said, "Thanks." The book made me feel closer to my father (requiescat in pace), who flew as a crew member over Europe in the Army Air Corps (pre U.S. Air Force) during the war.
Fantastic. To read this book is to understand why soldiers love Pyle. He understood them, and he told it like it was. Pyle does not describe the big picture of the war in Europe. He describes the day-to-day experiences of the GI. The infantry. The artillery. The air corps. The tankers. They are all here. Anyone with an interest in World War II must read this book.
Wish I could rate this higher though it's not Ernie Pyle's fault. This compendium of all Pyle's WWII columns from the front cries for a "best of" treatment. By the time I had to go through trench foot for the fourth time, I was ready to quit. Get's too redundant.Pyle's writing is great. Good sense of humor and irony. OTOH, you can tell he was under very strict 1940's editorial control.
Pyle was what all journalists aspire to be, or should. He was succinct, funny, gritty, spared no details, honest, and kind. His writings were above all else poignant about what was happening in World War II and to whom it was happening. This book is a collection of his writings that he sent back from the front. For all intense and purposes, he was a soldier who wrote.
One of the first and one of the all-time best of the "embedded reporters." Pyle became at one with the front lines and the units around him. The man traveled everywhere and even began to become a victim of the conflicts. Ernie's prose is magnificent and an inspiration to any would-be journalist. It is a shame that it is not required reading, these days...
"Tell me, Mr. Pyle, how does it feel to be an assault correspondent?"Being a man of few words, I said, "It feels awful."Here's the problem I had, and the reason why I needed to alternate with other books to make finishing this book more enjoyable: this is a read that is packed to the brim with step-by-step detail.
In the second half of the book in particular (so hold on if you're having trouble with the over-detailed description), the war gets more extreme in its highs and lows - and Pyle finds the emotional, narrative balance.
I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in WWII and/or had family members that served.
Some people didn't like that he took the time to name hundreds of individuals soldiers, including their hometown addresses many times.
I personally enjoyed each name and hometown, because it shows the wide range of Americans who served over there.
I wish Ernie Pyle had survived the war, but he left behind a wonderful collection of stories that people like me can enjoy today.
I wish I had read this sooner; it is now one of my favorite books.
Ernie Pyle's reminiscences of the war in Europe, from the landings in Sicily to the Liberation of Paris. Pyle covered the war with simple & unpretentious prose, focusing on the little guy, mostly the privates & NCOs & lieutenants, though he does write briefly about Omar Bradley, Jimmy Doolittle & photographer Robert Capa as well. Often full of humor and pathos.
The real story of WWII.Outstanding insight with very readable narrative of all contributors to WWII. Grabs and holds your attention from the first chapter.
not this version
What a wonderful book. Different to read - instead of history of battles, Mr. Pyle focuses on telling about the war through telling us about the soldiers. Honest, straightforward and inspiring.
Wonderful book. What a shame the author was killing in the Pacific. He was one heck of a writer.
This is a great look inside the true story of what it was like to be entrenched in the war during WWII. The author takes readers into a behind the scenes look of war and everything that entails.
Repetitive at times, but excellent reading
Brave Men, by Ernie Pyle, is a collection of articles written by the author who was a famous war correspondent, in the European Theater of War, during World War Two. Ernie spent time on the front lines with the average, everyday soldiers who were fighting the war so he could share with the American people what things were really like for their loved ones so far away.
His articles were later brought together and published in this book.I really enjoyed this book because the author gave me an inside look at what it was like for soldiers on the front lines during World War II.
He says about D-Day: "I want to tell you what the [invasion] entailed, so that you can know and appreciate and forever be humbly grateful to those both dead and alive who did it for you" (pg.
He tells what their days were like, what they ate, what kind of reception the locals gave.
It was surprising at first to see soldier's names and home addresses, and I can imagine people watching his columns, hoping to see a familiar name or even writing to strangers.
Part memoir of his travels with the US Army from North Africa, through Italy, and then onto the D-Day invasion of France, this book also served as an excellent instructional guide about how the army functioned, including the various aspects of a fighting force - the engineers, the ordinance, the dive bombers, the medics, and all the others.
This will serve as a useful start to my year long quest to learn more about WWII through both fiction and non-fiction.
I really loved this book and the way Pyle took the time to identify and explain the stories of the many soldiers he served with, including their home addresses and their former lives.
At the back of the book he provided an index of the soldiers and their addresses.
From talking to those who experienced his time, I understand that he was revered for getting down in the trenches with the soldiers and sharing their experienced with the "folks back home." I suppose that is why he was really revered, because while many of the reporters were talking about troop movements and generals, Ernie tells about the every day experiences.
A parent reading Ernie's description of an artillery unit for example, would know what their son in those units did each day.
I was intrigued by what he knew and didn't know.
As one of World War II's more prolific writers, one can only be amazed at how the clarity, truthfulness, and quality of his writings continued to strengthen through out the War. This book, "Brave Men," is his omnibus.
For those of you not so familiar with his life story, Ernie Pyle poured his heart and soul into writing about the men and women who were fighting the greatest war of all time!!!
And, so, it should not be surprising that the great event he was witness to, also consumed him in the end!For me, the man he was, can be found in his writing of the men he went to war with!An absolute must-read for anyone interested in WWII and the soldiers fighting it!!!
This book is a gathering of the columns of war correspondent Ernie Pyle.
It's an up close and personal look at World War II from a fellow who took his typewriter and went right to the front with the soldiers.
"That particular tank had everything in it from much-handled comic books to a pocket edition of the Bible.
But all the disorder didn't keep it from being a good tank, because that crew hedl the battalion record for firing its entire ammunition lad in the shortest time." This book is full of these little windows on the past.
I've read a lot of Ernie Pyle's columns over my years of study.
Many anthologies of World War II writing have one of his pieces, and Dr Carol Reardon assigned a collection of his best work when I was her student in her American Military History course at Penn State.
This, however, was the first time I read a body of his work as it appeared to contemporary readers.
Despite Pyle's well-known love for the infantry, many of his columns covered other outfits, such as dive bombers, ordnance, and anti-aircraft.
Modern journalists should read Pyle and try to capture his undertanding of military operations in their reporting.
I've bean reading this book for a whole year.It's basically articles put together from the paper that Ernie wrote for during WWII, about the solders and battalions that he toured with.I tore through the first half and then stopped cold.
It was becoming sad as to how many people Ernie had known in a short period; to live with, to work with and to see die.I had to stop.
An article or 2 here and there, between other books.That, was pretty much the only way I could read the book with out it affecting me so hard.A great book.Thank you Ernie.
Ernie Pyle was a WWII journalist.
He has a nice, plain style, and is very patriotic and clearly loves being in the middle of the action.
It's very different than the journalism we see now in the Iraq war, but the 40's were a different time and WWII was a different war, and all of those things come through in the book.
He's completely uncritical of the military and war in general, which bothers me a little, but he's so in love with the experience and the people around him, and he has such an amiable voice that it's definitely worth the read.
I've read about Pyle, but never read any of his books before I read Brave Men. Pyle's affection and respect for the common soldier, sailor, and airman is readily apparent and he gives more of a micro-account of the war from their level than he does a macro-perspective from the level of the general staff. This is a great choice for getting an idea of what it was like both at and behind the lines for those at the pointed end of the spear during World War II.
Truly The Greatest GenerationThis is the story of the men whowere on the front lines of the most terrible war of modern times, and the men who fought in it. Their very day to day existence was tenuous at the best. Yet they fought on to free the world of an incredible tyranny. Their sacrifices were daily and constant, and yet they prevailed against a brutal enemy. Small wonder then that they should be known as "The Greatest Generation."
War is waged by ordinary people from big cities and small towns, each of whom has a life with meaning. People unlike you and me - whose children and grandchildren will never be placed in harm's way - commit war. Moving stories of these people and how they retained their humanity in cruel, harsh conditions.
Brave Men was a gift to me by a close friend, and my introduction to Ernie Pyle, one of the greatest journalists who ever lived. Ernie's theater was WWII, and it's hard to think of a reporter who comes anywhere close to Pyle's prose that captured an era so hauntingly well. Thank you, Ernie. We will never forget you, your service, and your typewriter. --jw
Pulled this from the box of books from my father-in-law's house. An excellent read starting with the WWII invasion prelude into Sicily (June, 1943) and ending in France (September, 1944). Great descriptions of individuals, the environment, and the logistics of moving troops through Italy and France. Ernie shapes the image of WWII for the American public.
