https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53010.Saint_Genet
within the first 70 pages, this book helped me to decipher my complete modus operendi in terms of socialization. But, more importantly, it's a biographical dissection of a critical and controversial 20th century figure whom Sartre regards as  the  existential man-- within him, we can find elements of the existensial crisis in us all. Brilliantly written but incredibly dense, its something I keep returning to but cannot read continually without drying out or, conversely, exploding, my brain.
Fantastic - I learned a lot about myself reading this book - he starts with the hypothesis that the artist (in this case, Genet) is someone that may have had their concept of the world shattered in childhood, and spends the rest of their life trying to reassemble those shattered pieces through the journey of creative acts. A great study of one of my favorite writers, and perhaps one of the clearest prose works Sartre ever wrote.
I have such mixed feelings about this book, at first it seems to help decipher the Genet books, but in reality is another writer's misunderstanding of Genet's work. Sartre creates his own character named Genet, gives this character his own world view totally removed from the real Genet and his work. Luckily this tome did not color my view of Genet's writing. This book tried to define Genet in a single dimension and time, Genet is so much more than this study. I would suggest reading Genet, immerse yourself and find your own interpretation of his work, it's more worthwhile.
Worthwhile to read but not as good as reading the great Genet. But it's nice to know that Genet has his obsessive fans. Sartre is a little too serious for my taste, but nevertheless a man of great taste in literature. Genet needed him at a time he needed friends. 'Saint Genet' is a saint, but i don't know if I want him in my house due to the fact that he will for sure steal one of my books or at least a fork and knife.
While parts of this book are a bit dated, overall it is a fascinating examination of an interesting author and I quite enjoyed it
sartre writing on genet. need i say more?
I heard this described once as a biography of Genet. It isn't really that at all. It's a chance for Sartre to philosophize about the idea of Genet. VERY dense book. It's about 10% biography, 20% literary criticism and 110% philosophy. How did I come up with 140%. This is Sartre. Dude's brain was cranked to 11.
"ژنه ی مقدس" که به شکلی تکان دهنده، عریان به زندگی این نویسنده ی زندانی می پردازد، در اصل رساله ای ست بلند در دفاع از آزادی انسان.
ژنه پس از آزادی، تا هنگام مرگ، در هتلی در مراکش زندگی می کرد و نسبت به فرهنگ و جامعه ی فرانسه ابراز تنفر می نمود.
ژنه که خود با تمام قد در مقابل ارزش هایی که او را محکوم می کرد، ایستاد، پس از آزادی از تماس با جامعه ی روشنفکری فرانسه نیز، خودداری کرد و معتقد بود که سارتر در این اثرش، نگاه ترحم انگیزی به او داشته است.
Despite finding the book heavily marked up with underlined passages and notes and symbols in the margins, I find it almost completely unreadable now.
Although, the marks in the book indicate that at some point in time I thought I understood.
Even reading these marked passages and my notes in the margin, now all I can manage is WTF?
For Sartre, Genet was his archetype for the existentialist man, and perhaps he brilliantly proves it in these 625 pages of tiny type.
But one could argue that if it takes 625 pages to prove your point .
" Kibar zevkleri olan Culafoy ve Divine, biraz da azizliklerinden, hep nefret ettikleri şeyleri sevmek zounda kalacaklar; çünkü aziz olmak her şeyden vazgeçebilmeyi gerektirir."// Genet'in en büyük özlemi olan azizliğ tanımlar; kutsal kelimesine günah lezzetinn verilmesiyle elde edilen azizlik, Sartre'a göre dilinin en güzel sözüdür. Gerçeken de, en büyük kötülüğün tercih edilmesi en büyük iyiliğin tercih edilmesiyle bağlantılıdır ve bunlardan biri ne kadar kesin bir şekilde diğerine bağlanıyorsa, diğeriyle aynı ölçüde ilişki kurar. //
Quite a long read - perhaps a bit long-winded - on Sartre's relationship with Genet. Mainly concerned with Sartre's concerns for the underdog. Very good on how Genet forged himself a sense of self in a world that had rejected him.
