https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15720455-the-diary-of-mr-poynter
i’d always kind of lumped m.r. james in with algernon blackwood in my mind as “contemporaneous english writers of dry and boring ghost stories that do not scare me one bit.”and all of that holds up except for the “boring” part.
mission statement copied from my review for One Who Saw:this holiday season, i am going to read through 'seth's christmas ghost stories' line on biblioasis, and i encourage you to do the same.
the cover art and interior illustrations are by seth, and they are seasonally spoooooky, blending the spirit of halloween with christmas cheer the way nature, and jack skellington, intended.7 more to go!
finally! a slightly chilling story!
Not sure what I just read. Good thing it was short.I'd rate this 5/5 for the single paragraph where the MC feels something hairy on the floor because that part was hauntingly terrifying.But that would be like reviewing a 1996 New Jersey Devils game by only commenting on the slick dipsydoodle Scott Niedermayer made at the 8-minute mark in the 3rd period. The rest of the game was a snooze fest.Watch the highlight, skip the rest.
One of five very cute, nicely illustrated little editions of old ghost stories for reading on Christmas Eve, an apparently forgotten tradition. The story just isn't scary or even entertaining, unless you can find entertainment in how not scary or entertaining it is, which I did. It was actually fun to read aloud hammily on Christmas Eve just to discuss how it wasn't entertaining in the least. A lot of talk about chintz, very little hair-raising adventure--yes, a pun on the story's plot.
Very unsettling story. I still feel creeped out after finishing this book earlier today.
How to make both hair and household fabrics utterly creepy.
Again, M.R. James chills me with a supernatural horror, though I am a reader who claims to be unmoved by such stories.
His pacing is just so perfectly executed.
His crafting of a sentence can somehow make me get a shiver.
He makes me believe what I'm reading.
Here is another classic ghost story by James, about a man who becomes obsessed with making a perfect reproduction of a piece of fabric he has found in an old journal.
The fabric carries an old story of old personalities he would do well not to waken.
Not sure why this is a Christmas ghost story since it takes place in October. At any rate, the curtains are haunted. I have no idea why they are haunted, and I have no idea who they are haunted by. It was a short, fun read - mainly because the main character thought he was petting his dog, but was actually petting the hairy monster from the curtains.
Not so much ghost as creepy creature involving a pattern and hair. Basically the moral of this story is read the entire diary before proceeding with creating curtains with a pattern found inside.Another of the stories to send shivers down your spine at Xmas.
quite silly without being funny
I'm not sure that the story totally makes sense, but dang James conjures some creepy imagery.
✭✭✭
Take a deep breath.
If you smell old books, that's an M.
R. James story!
The Diary of Mr Poynter" (1919), is a story about a man who buys an old diary.
He takes it home and while looking through the diary a fabric sample falls out.
It is decided that the pattern should be copied and made into curtains.
But there, of course, is something very curious about those new curtains.
Not a spoiler but...watch for the part where the narrator puts his hand absently on what he thinks to be the head of his pet spaniel and finds .....Read this creepy story and find out.
Biblioasis and Seth are bringing back the Victorian Christmas ghost story! It was a common tradition across much of the western world to read a spooky ghost story during the Christmas holidays, and these tiny, illustrated versions of classic horror stories are meant to help reignite this tradition. The Diary of Mr. Poynter is an odd little story about haunted curtains? It's a bit nonsensical, but I boosted the rating as the prose is a delight to read, and Seth's graphics are brilliant. And, though strange, haunted curtains is certainly an innovative ghost story!
