https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33230889-the-good-daughter
Slaughter more closely resembles my beloved Tana French in style, making her books more about the detectives or, in this case, lawyers than about the actual crime/mystery.
The very best mystery/thrillers, in my opinion, are about so much more than the twists and whodunnits.The Good Daughter is essentially a deeply emotional, character-driven family drama, set to the backdrop of two brutal crimes.
I’m going to keep my review spoiler free for The Good Daughter, but the following paragraphs will have some spoilers for her previous series, mainly the Grant County books.
This is why I think it’s so important that people write books containing such dark content.I blew threw the Grant County series; I literally read them all back to back and couldn’t get enough.
So that brings us up to speed for The Good Daughter.*********************************************If I’m being honest, it’s always nerve wracking to pick up a new book by your favorite author, especially once they’ve been writing long term.
And why she keeps screwing up goes to the heart of one of the many mysteries in this story.Long-time readers will know that I also try to be inclusive in my writing and discuss how the world is for people with disabilities, so I took the opportunity in the GOOD DAUGHTER to write a bit about the struggle for someone who has mobility issues and how often times, small towns are not equipped to handle them (whether through lack of funding or lack of care).Another character I was very eager to write about is Rusty Quinn.
For me, Karin Slaughter has always been an author who delivers on both fronts—the deliciously dark and depraved madness, counterbalanced perfectly with touches of wittiness and tenderness.
There’s a host of family dynamics at play here—none more prominent than the sisterly bond ravaged by tragedy, guilt and secrets.“Neither one of us will ever move forward if we are always looking back.”If you’ve had the pleasure of reading a Slaughter novel, you know she has a tendency for getting the pages good and bloody.
I’m blaming the dark side of my heart on the healthy diet of horror flicks my dad started me on at a very young age—there’s not much at this point that makes me queasy or uncomfortable.
The attack was likely someone angry at lawyer father, Rusty Quinn who often defends men many lawyers would never represent.But not even two weeks later, another attack of violence and brutality changes the lives of everyone in the Quinn family forever.Twenty-eight years later, Charlie Quinn has followed in her father's footsteps and is now a lawyer in small town Pikeville.
However, I was able to skim those parts without missing much of the story-line.After an author has written so many books, I feel like it must be very difficult to come up with new plots that twist and turn.
The woman did not seem to understand that Rusty Quinn was exactly the kind of man that her daughter needed." Rusty to Charlie "'She thinks the girl's gonna come home."' "'Like a good little unicorn?'' "'Well, Charlie Bear, there's innocent and there's not guilty, and there's not a lot of rhyme or reason in between." He gave her a wink.
I guess the smoking and the drinking are two separate things, but ..."' Rusty/Charlie to Sam "'He said, "Talk to Kelly Wilson yourself.
Also very disappointed because I loved this book and was so looking forward to this being a series.This is a stand alone.
Did anyone else think this was a series or is it just me?I just loved this book.
I had to laugh at this because I thought it was cute and had to laugh at this moment because I went through a lot of nail biting suspense and it helped to be able to breathe after everything that happened.
You have to be able to handle everything if you are thinking of reading this book.
It's not that I had an aversion to reading a book by Karin Slaughter, it's just that I kind of kept putting it off.
Samantha and her sister, Charlie bore witness to their mother's death.
More importantly, this was a plot-driven book with characters that I liked.
Characters that I cared about and felt invested to from the beginning of the book.
I felt such extreme pain and anguish from the trauma these sisters had suffered.
I felt this only added an extra dimension to this already well-crafted novel.As mentioned above, this was the first book that I have read by Karin Slaughter.
This has made Rusty a host of enemies, seen the family home burn down and bring fresh danger to his wife, the fiercely intelligent and double PhD genius, Gamma, and his two young daughters, Samantha and Charlotte, known as Charlie.
Twenty eight years later, the savage events that ripped the family apart have taken their toll on Sam and Charlie.
The stage is set to see the original family trauma under a new light as the truth begins to emerge and to discover if it is remotely possible that Kelly is not the killer she is painted to be, in direct contradiction to the evidence available.Karin Slaughter has written a brilliant novel that incorporates the worst of humankind, a veritable Pandora's box of horror and despair, and the faint wisps of hope for Sam and Charlie.
Whew! That was a lot to take in.Deeply disturbing intense read filled with drama, suspense, and unspeakable trauma. The Good Daughter is not for the faint hearted.  Teenage sisters Sam and Charlie experience a traumatic and torturous event. What happens to them scars them both literally and figuratively for life. Nearly 30 years later, the past they worked so hard to bury comes back to haunt them as they deal with the fall out of a school shooting. Buried secrets emerge about Sam and Charlotte’
As a result, the reader has to reread these horrific scenes multiple times as we not only understand what happened to Sam and Charlie, but also see how they had to alter their memories in order to survive.What I liked about The Good Daughter was that it was more than just a thriller; it was about dramatic family dynamics.
Despite being hard to read at times, I was fully engrossed in The Good Daughter.
I recommend this book but with caution as the violent scenes are very hard to read and process.
However, before they even get a chance to make this place a home, something truly horrific takes place, an attack of such terrible proportions that it's really hard to read.
One girl runs for her life, her sister is unable to!When a second horrific crime hits this small community 28 years later, the secrets of the earlier tragedy are slowly revealed, and they will have repercussions for the Quinn family as well as the community at large.OMG, this was such an intense read that at times I could barely breathe.
I think this book is worth the read for the characters alone.One of the main character is disabled, which I was happy to see be a decent part of the story as diversity in adult thrillers is often non-existent.
Also, there are some comments about the intelligence/mental capabilities of one character that I felt some may take offense to in regards to words like, "slow" "mental deficits" etc.I do think I was hoping this book would offer a little bit more for me, but I still really enjoyed it.
This was, however, much more graphic than I am comfortable with, and I resented the fact that it was repeated three different times in the book.
An additional plot line that brings the sisters back together, I felt became kind of lost, and became mostly a vehicle to further the main story.I did like the characters, though I found much of this story unbelievable, that is within the parameters of the story.
The last quarter of the book was a convoluted untangling of the storyline, where too much happens in a short space of time.
(My amazing friend Amy, at A Court of Crowns and Quills, gave this to me as a birthday gift!) 💕  “Nothing ever truly faded. Time only dulled the edges.”  Friends, I’m going to be real with you all upfront; this is a really fucked up book. Before I even start my review, I’m going to list all the content and trigger warnings: graphic rape, pedophilia, penetration using an object, graphic deaths, mention of suicide, loss of a loved one, police brutality, racist comments, hurtful ableist comments, m
Before I even start my review, I’m going to list all the content and trigger warnings: graphic rape, pedophilia, penetration using an object, graphic deaths, mention of suicide, loss of a loved one, police brutality, racist comments, hurtful ableist comments, misgendering, arson, a school shooting, extreme bullying, miscarriages, grey-area cheating, and a lot of violence.
Please use caution and make sure you are in a safe mindset before picking this story up, and before reading my review.
Basically, the first 80% of this book is an easy five star read, but the ending left me a little too sad to give it.
You said it, George Takei! I seriously cannot get over this book.Over the last few months I've seen a number of friends on Goodreads waxing poetic about Karin Slaughter. I like a good crime novel/thriller, so I figured I'd need to check her out at some point. Then I heard about her newest book, The Good Daughter, so I thought, "Let's give this the old look-see, shall we?"DAMN, Karin Slaughter. You knocked my freaking head off with this one.It was a fairly typical night for teenage sisters Charl
Then I heard about her newest book, The Good Daughter, so I thought, "Let's give this the old look-see, shall we?"DAMN, Karin Slaughter.
But as the girls and their mother waited for their father to come home, a terrifying attack occurred, one which left physical and psychological damage, causing scars real and emotional, and forging secrets that changed everything.Twenty-eight years later Charlie has pulled her life together as best as she could, and is now a lawyer like her father.
If you like this genre and can deal with some violence, pick up The Good Daughter.
Maybe not quite as graphic and shocking as some other Karin Slaughter offerings, but still pretty intense.
There is enough here to keep you on the edge of your seat and guessing.One of the storylines I thought kind of seemed obvious in where it was going.
I sort of get what happened, but the events around the resolution were odd.So, with the last two paragraphs in mind, I would say it was a very interesting story with some fascinating characters but kind of a so-so ending.
If you are a thriller or Slaughter fan, I think you will find something here to enjoy.
Read this without realizing it was the same author as "Pretty Girls" and thought they were equally dark... well that explains it!Explicit sexual violence which was a bit too much for me but still an interesting character-driven mystery.Not my fav. Not sure if I should read more from this author.P.S. DO NOT GET THE AUDIOBOOK. The whispering then screaming was so annoying especially since I often listen to audiobooks in the shower... it was not fun.
Wow!! Just WOW!!! Karin Slaughter keeps getting better. This book broke my heart, gave me anxiety, and made me cry several times. It had several "cringe/gasp" worthy moments. The writing was off the charts. I LOVED IT!!!
The Good Daughter was my first introduction to Karin Slaughter and I can say without hesitation, it won’t be my last.
What felt real about this book were the characters.
Good or bad, love or hate them, characters like this exist all around us whether we want to admit it or not and Ms. Slaughter nailed it.
I was totally engrossed all the while closing one eye when the book got a little hard to read.
I can’t honestly say why I have never read a Karin Slaughter novel before, but I can say that this will not be my last.
If I could I'd give this 10 stars I would!!!The Good Daughter is my second novel that I have read by Karin Slaughter and hands down...
Karin has climbed her way into my dark obsessive heart of crime novels and she can stay there!
Samantha and Charlotte are sisters living with their mother Gamma and father Rusty.
Rusty is a lawyer who works on death row for the small town this family lives in.
because the opening scene is horrific and I think I lost my heart after the first 10 pages of this story.The novel alternates between the past and present.
3.5* Rounded up!True to Karin Slaughter - A disturbing, chillingly and violent book.
New light is shown on parts of the past that the sisters had thought was long buried.For all fans of Karin Slaughter, you know you are going to be given a book filled with graphic violence and jaw dropping shockers!
I did feel at times this book lost some focus and was not as sharp as it could have been.
Though this was not a favorite from Ms. Slaughter I‘ll be looking forward to her next release.A traveling sister read with Norma, Diane, Jennifer, and Jan!
If she decided to re-write a phone book, I would stand in line to read it.
Violence is graphic and raw, Slaughter does her research and consults with a lot of professionals when she writes her books.
She writes complex characters and if you have read her series you will know that she has incredible character development as those series progress.
I could wax on all day about her but I will just give you the gist of this story:Charlotte and Samantha Quinn's father is a defense attorney who represents some questionable people.
GET OUT THERE AND READ THIS BOOK ALREADY!!!!!!!!
When I see a new Karin Slaughter book coming out I get all excited. I'll beg and steal (I kid!) to get my greedy hands on a copy. I totally got denied an ARC copy of this one and I think I whined for 2 weeks. (Total first world problems) I sucked it up after my husband told me to shut the hell up and requested it from my lovely library. Then proceeded to be almost late for work because I couldn't stop reading it.Two sisters had their entire life changed twenty eight years ago. They and their mot
When I see a new Karin Slaughter book coming out I get all excited.
I totally got denied an ARC copy of this one and I think I whined for 2 weeks.
Charlie herself is in the school when it happens and it starts bringing back memories of that day from years ago.
I'll just fangirl over this author for a minute..I've read Karin Slaughter for years.
This book was just what I wanted and if you haven't read anything by her I think this might be a good place to start.
the only other book I’ve read by Slaughter....
but I remember that book from beginning to end and how I felt - changes I went through as I lost an entire night’s sleep like it was yesterday.
so I couldn’t read Slaughter often - but the 2nd half of that book moved me to no end!!!!
I remembered loving the book - I think more than many readers ( and I did understand readers upset to toss it out the window)....So here I was again - a few years later.
Twenty-eight years ago the Quinn family was getting ready for dinner when two masked men entered their home changed their lives forever.
Twenty-eight years later a violent event has shaken the small town of Pikesville and past secrets that seemed to be buried are resurfacing.
I do not want to give any more details, just know that this is a great thriller.The book is narrated from different points of view and alternates between the present and the past.
The only thing is that I realized an important plot point early on.Overall I enjoyed the novel  and plan to read more books by the author.
What did I think?
I thought that the book was written very compactly.
There was little breathing space.
Usually I groan somewhat when reading two timelines.
Not with this author.Charlotte and Samantha Quinn are mere kids when they encounter a violent encounter.
But now Charlotte herself is faced with going back in time to guess what happened actually.This book has unambitious goals.
To shock and excite maybe.
But it is also a testament to the talent of the author, to keep her demanding readers guessing.
And in the end, doesn't all art have twists and turns?
I do recommend this book.
It's well worth reading.
And it left the family fractured beyond repair, consumed by secrets from that terrible night.Twenty-eight years later, and Charlie has followed in her father's footsteps to become a lawyer herself – the archetypal good daughter.
Because the shocking truth about the crime which destroyed her family nearly thirty years ago won't stay buried for ever.I enjoyed the writing in this one, small town feel with some superb characters that make this book a very good read.I would like to thank Net Galley and HarperCollins UK, HarperFiction for supplying a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review.
The Good Daughter is Karin Slaughter's most recent stand-alone and a must read for all of her fans.
It is a gripping, intense family drama involving a crime that happened 28 years ago but which alters the course of the future, a school shooting and all of those involved.
The book opens with the story of Charlie, her sister and the original, horrific crime.
Slaughter is an amazing writer and this story truly will not disappoint her fans or those who might be new to her.
The book starts with events that happened 28 years ago and then jumps into the present.
Much of the book is about the events that happened in the past and how they are affecting the characters in the present day.
Karin Slaughter novels are not for the faint of heart.
This novel was suspenseful and entertaining to the very end.
I did not see the twist at the end coming and I pride myself on always guessing the twist in books.
Not this time though I was completely shocked and had to reread that twice.I highly recommend this and all Karin Slaughter novels.A Book for all Seasons Book Club
Holy crap, this book was INTENSE!
And the intensity didn't stop.
Karin Slaughter’s pacing of this book is fantastic.
Tension-tension-tension-tension!I love the Quinn family.
The brutality unleashed on this family might be called unthinkable, but in reality it happens somewhere every day.
Slaughter pulls no punches with the violence.
My emotions were pulled every which way.
I feel the need to thank Karin Slaughter for letting me come down off the adrenaline slowly at the end.
Karin Slaughter just keeps getting better and better, and this is her best yet.
