https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228063.xxxHolic_Vol_1
I had rewatched the xxxHolic anime recently, which led me to discover my local library had the complete run of the manga.
1 - 19.Very enjoyable -- it is one of my favorite animes -- but the manga run actually raised more questions than it settled.
While Yuuko eventually suffered the usual fate of mentors in such tales, there was a lot of fun to be had along the way with the tropes.I also ended up watching the cross-connected complete Tsubasa anime series, 52 episodes (thanks, Hennepin County Library), in the hopes that more things would be explained; some were, but not enough.
I am not entirely sure how I felt about this book, or if I'll be continuing with the series. The stories were a little uneven. The pathological liar was great, the internet addict... not so much. Right now, the characters don't seem to have much depth, but it is still the first volume. And I didn't like the art quite as much as I would normally like things from CLAMP. But that lying story was actually really good, and if the rest of xxxHolic is going to be more like that...
God bless those girls from Clamp!
The Clamp chicks always do that!
And as usual I’m buying!
And his price is cleaning!
He has to clean for the shop owner and if he does a nice job he will be granted what he wants!
But she don’t know that she wants to stop lying… it kind of has this AA ring to it… it’s hard to explain but the shop owner keeps talking like an AA sponsor….
And then they show Sakura’s wand!
They show a plastic replica of Sakura’s staff!
I like staff better!
It’s cute!
Me likes!
While being chased by spirits, Watanuki runs into a strange shop and meets a strange woman named Yūko.
Hitsuzen, or fate, is one of the recurring themes in xxxHolic, and Watanuki's "chance" encounter at the strange shop leads him to meeting the shop's owner, Yūko, and his life is changed.She offers to help him lift his "curse" (being able to see and interact with spirits), but only if he can pay the price.
The series really picks up though after the introduction of Watanuki's "rival" Dômeki.
I've already seen the anime, which is what turned me onto the manga. This volume didn't reveal anything not already covered in the anime, but that's usually the case with the first volume or two. The artwork is amazing, which I hear is CLAMP's usual style. I was wavering at about 3* or 3.5* because, while this volume is good, the storyline didn't suck me in 100% (it was the same with the first few episodes with the anime, which I turned out loving); but the artwork is just so professional that I felt it deserved the whole 4*.
I had heard good things about this manga and when I saw volume 1 on the shelf, I picked it up.
I didn't care for it that much.
It's confusing - both pictures and story.
There is a teenage boy who sees spirits who goes to work for a modern day witch who will grant wishes - for a price.
The premise is good but I was a bit confused the entire time.
I know some of what is referenced can be found in other manga I haven't read.
I'm so confused and this book is so weird. Possibly the rating will change once I get farther?EDIT: THE ABOVE WAS TOTALLY ABOUT XXXHOLIC REI. I WAS VERY CONFUSED. I AM NOW READING THIS REAL VOLUME ONE. UPDATES TO FOLLOW. ACTUAL REVIEW: Soooooo scarrryyyyyy. And soooooo cuuuuute. I wish I was reading this in tandem with Tsubasa. It's going to get hard to remember what's happening wih the Tsubasa gang, as I go on
http://fiebrelectora.blogspot.com.es/...
Almost every single chapter deals with Watanuki and Domeki going on an ‘errand’ of some sorts and Yuko gives a little bit of information about the supernatural world around them.The story in this manga is also very interesting.
They encounter the supernatural and come across all sorts of different creatures.So, for a story that is interesting and a lot of fun you would think that the character cast is not so good right?
It’s pretty obvious that they’re not human but they’re a lot of fun with their playful personalities and it’s very interesting to see them annoy the crap out of Watanuki.And speaking of which, there’s also Mokona as well.
Watanuki cooks and cleans, but Yuuko also has less mundane tasks for him, and for his rival/friend/protector Doumeki, who has the power to vanquish the spirits Watanuki can see but Doumeki can't.I love this to bits.
Yuuko sees things nobody else can see, and she stares into darkness and tragedy with darkness in her eyes, and then turns around with a huge smile and a new complicated and indecently revealing outfit and waves a bottle of sake and gives Watanuki and Doumeki some new ridiculously huge task to do.
I know CLAMP likes to mix their characters, like they did with the anime version of Tsubasa Reservoir Chronicles which I really enjoyed until it's abrupt ending but I completely forgot they did this in the manga too.
Of course, it's only the first volume of the manga so I wasn't expecting the characters to be completely fleshed out, and then there may also be things lost in translation so I have taken this into account when re-rating it.
A solid start to the series, which I'm still unsure of how it will work out. While it's overall humorous, it has a really dark overtone--the main character can see spirits and the female lead is a witch. I wasn't really certain what this series would be like, since CLAMP's work can be anything from incredibly silly to very dark and serious (X/1999 is the obvious contender for their darkest series).So far a good start, and I really enjoyed the character of Yûko (but I generally have a soft spot for sassy witches).
xxxHolic is an original manga with a bunch of great ideas. And Yûko is amazing. I thoroughly enjoy reading about her... antics, and I can't wait to read the sequels.Oh, and if the title sounds or the covers look weird to you, don't let them scare you. I was a bit nervous about the series at first, since it kinda looked and sounded like it was a book about druggy people or something, but when I read about Yûko in Tsubasa Reservoir Chronicle, I really wanted to read more about her. She's such a cool character. <3
I liked it, it was fun with tons of references to other books:)!
The art is distinctive, stylish/stylized, and gorgeous.
What I recall from years ago was that it is inspired by ukiyo-e woodcut prints.
The story in this first volume is, unfortunately for its only chance at a first impression, lacking; it's mostly setup for crossovers with CLAMP's other manga.
It's a mystery.I read the first few volumes of this when it first came out in English, and got bogged down.
Part of that may have been I was trying to read it in tandem with companion manga Tsubasa, which I wasn't enjoying anywhere near as much.

Primera vez que leo un manga desde el kindle. Me encanta tanto este anime, y los dibujos de Clamp 💓
Wata *o*
This is the story about the boy named "Watanuki" suffering from the power to attract ghosts. One day, he finds the queer store that the owner,Yuko can grant other's wishes. he starts to work at the store to fulfill his wish. I like "xxxHolic" the most in CLAMP's works. The characters and settings are unique, and the main attraction is people's human growth through interacting with others. I,m look forward to reading all of this manga in English.
Yuuko seems quite shady, but not necessarily in a bad way, and Watanuki seems crabby - and not too bright, making such an open-ended deal with such a shady witch!
The lesson Yuuko gave the woman with the computer addiction was particularly interesting to me, because I too have made excuses to put off quitting something, saying 'I'll do it soon, what's one more day', stuff like that.
The way Yuuko explained choices and consequences, and making a promise to oneself, really struck me.
I can't wait for the next time it rains on a sunny day, I'll try the mirror trick, it should be fun!
I've always wanted to read a manga by CLAMP.
If you read manga, you kind of need to read at least one series by CLAMP.
At its greatest, manga IS art, and xXxholic depicts that relationship quite well.The story deals with the supernatural, the roots of which come from Japan's folklore.
Not only are the stories of that folklore well executed, but they reveal a surprisingly keen glimpse into human nature that intrigues the reader even further into the story.The English editing is fantastic, with great translation notes in each volume.
Highly recommended.*As of date of review, I've read through volume 16.
Actual rating: 3.5Ooh, this series has already intrigued me!
I really enjoyed the artwork...mostly surrounding Yuko - the way she looks.
the way she dresses, the way her shop looks, etc.
It feels so long since I read a manga with a decent female lead, so I am so excited about that!But dang...
I'm hoping to get back to this series once 2014 starts!Edit: 2/17/14And here I am!!
I just re-read this volume to refresh my memory, and it looks as if I had the same reaction.
And I LOVE Yuko-san!
I cannot wait to read the rest of this series.
Watanuki is cursed to see the spirits that haunt the living world.
Yuko, a capitalistic mystic, won't do anything for free.
Working for a mystic can be an interesting experience when you can see spirits.
Watanuki uses his unwanted ability to fiture out more about Yuko.Another great read from CLAMP.
Like always they like to mix their storylines from several series and this one ends with a twist from Card Captor Sakura.
I understand that later this series gets a little on the raunchy side but CLAMP is never that dirty (except Chobits).
mystery, magic, twists....this book, once you open it, you won't be able to tell what's real and what not.
you won't be able to tell whether you're dreaming or when you're awake.the psychological impact of this book is strong.
I can't tell whether it's good or bad but one thing is for sure.
Nothing happens by accident.there are a couple quotes I loved and believe in now."there are no such things as Hitsuzen (coincidences)""whether you wish it or not, once a bond has been made it will stay""if you wish for it strong enough, the universe will conspire to grant it"and"To be able to get something, you must give something of equal value"This book and The book "The Alchemist" pretty much enforces the same belief.
I've read xxxHolic a few times, and while some things have gone a bit stale with time (some of the gags aren't that funny anymore, even now knowing the context), other things have aged gracefully (the general sense of "wrongness", the paranormal stuff, some of the philosophical questions).It's also apparent that at least some of the later stuff was planned early on, like (view spoiler)[Himawari's curse (hide spoiler)] being hinted at early on.Generally, it's a creepy CLAMP ghost story at this point, and if you like that kind of thing, definitely check it out.
My very first MANGA ever! I was pleasantly surprised and happy that I liked it. I must say that it was very strange for me to read a book from end to beginning or should I say to me the book is backward. That did honestly throw me a little at first. I really enjoyed the artwork in the book. :o)
More like 3.5 stars. I did enjoy this but not quite as much as some of the other manga I've read. I wish the storyline with the girl who lied would have been a bit longer. I think it got cut short just a bit much. I'll read the others because I'd still like to see what happens.
Nice, quite interesting, and I share birthday with the main character.
Very nice art! The stories were ok, though nothing too complicated or thrilling. Interesting to see the little nods to Clamp's other titles :)
A boy who sees the spirit world become the indentured servant of a strange sexy mystic who runs a shop granting people wishes. Interesting, not sure if I'm sold yet.
