https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1225621.The_Outlaw_Demon_Wails
This one was a treat to read.
I have little going on about how to describe the reading experience, except for the fact that there was little romance in this book.
That helped.
There was also little action too.So what did this book comprise?
There are continuations about relationships.
The mourning of lost ones.
The fear of the unknown, here called the ever after, which is a dimension where demons live.I thought hard about whether this book is worth 4 stars.
But then I realized that though I will never reread this book, it's a pretty damn well put together one.
If you've loved all the previous books, then there's no doubt that you'll like this one too for the simple reason that the author still manages to keep everything interesting.
I'm not a hardcore shipper but there's an undeniable love between them and a bond too, that could easily evolve into something else if Rachel gave them a chance.
At the end of the day, I just want them to be happy.I'll dive into the next book soon and hope we get some answers because I'm dying to see the person responsible for (view spoiler)[Kisten's (hide spoiler)] death suffer the same fate.
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsI mentioned in my review of   For a Few Demons More   that Al was in trouble with the demons and wanted Rachel to help him out . . .Yeah, guess how well that went over . . .It didn't.So Al's HELLA pissed (b/c he's a total blame shifter) and in demon jail, but only during the day, b/c he's arranged for someone to summon him to the real world as soon as the sun sets everyday.But who? Hmmm?? Probably not who you're thinking . . .Regardless of who is doing it, Al's getting ou
that Al was in trouble with the demons and wanted Rachel to help him out .
He's a demon with nothing to lose, and a demon with nothing to lose is not a happy or fun demon.So that's a problem.But that's not all, b/c this is another installment with ALL THE THINGS happening, and it is as fantastic as For a Few Demons More.We finally (finally, FINALLY) get some Ivy and Rachel resolution.
Rachel finds out what really happened to her dad.
Dead Witch Walking (The Hollows #1)
For a Few Demons More (The Hollows #5)
White Witch, Black Curse (The Hollows #7)
Pale Demon (The Hollows #9)
Ms. Harrison put Rachael and her friends through some paces but I loved where it all ended.
Although Rachael didn't hookup with Trent, I'm still hopeful but realize it would be a major plot development that won't happen overnight.
A new character, Blis, has moved into Rachael's church.
He is a gargoyle and we don't learn much about him in this book.
Rachael has a new 'love' interest whose name I already forgot.
Book 7 is not loved by the series fans so I expect to read that one slower.
As she is a great reader, all the characters had their distinct voice and mannerisms and she kept on target perfectly.
First the reader decided that lots of established characters and places should be pronounced totally differently than the previous 4 books.
Didn't this reader even listen to some of the previous audiobooks to get a clue?
Next is the unfortunate issue that the reader did not have the talent to portray the different characters with different voice inflection.
This reader ruined the book for me.
I do see that they go back to the original reader after this book so I will continue with the series.
Save for one or two things, the ending of the book could have been the sort of satisfying conclusion of the series.
I think part of what makes it feel like a conclusion is that Rachel really has grown up.
And she's clearly starting a new phase in her life.I'm a little sad about where things ended up with Ivy. I suppose I should be happy that she clearly does like Ivy for Ivy and not just the vamp pheromones, something which Ivy finally knows, too.
Ivy is clearly bi and that's great, but the only woman Rachel's ever been sexually attracted to is Ivy and so on some level it's hard for me to believe it's anything more than vamp pheromones.
With everything that happened in book five, all the drama, tragedy and heartache, it was hard not being a little nervous about what Harrison would throw our way this time.
I am so very glad that I waited to start this series until all the books were out because binge reading this series is so the way to go.
They are so addicting and hard to put down and with so much on the line for Rachel, I couldn't see having to wait months for the next book, I think it would have killed me.
As I said here Kim Harrison's Rachel Morgan series has replaced Laurell Hamilton's Anita Blake series in my mind as top form in the genre of paranormal private investigators.In this latest outing, she's upped the ante even more by not doing what Hamilton does as her series continues--to wit, regress her plots to the point where they are mere frames on which she hangs her torpidly overwritten soft-core pornography--but instead takes her character the other way.
This 6th book of the series takes us along with Rachel as she discovers that there are consequences to living her life as she has been.
i had been expecting anything but this, and i was actually beginning to think that trent and rachel might actually have a chance together when ceri confirmed who the baby belongs to.
there's been too much built up about him for him to just disappear like that, and maybe minias will seek rachel's protection now that newt is openly gunning.i also have a niggling suspicion about who killed kisten, but i can't be sure yet on that either.
he does show his demonic side in this book, but i think it's out of a vested interest in survival rather than outwardly wanting to harm.anyway, i can still see minias coming to rachel as an alternative to newt.
Well, that moment arrives here, and Rachel finally makes the mature and sensible decision that she should have made at the outset.
In terms of the plot, someone is helping Rachel's demon nemesis, Algaliarept, escape from his imprisonment in the Ever After, and he has his heart set on throttling her.
On a final note, for some unknown reason, the narrator for this installment is Gigi Bermingham instead of Marguerite Gavin.
For me, Gavin is the voice of this series, but I would be willing to listen to other books read by Bermingham.
Luckily Rachel wasn't quite as annoying in this edition as she has been becoming. She was actually starting to grow up and take responsibilty for her actions and wasn't whining when things didn't go her way.In this story Rachel is being stalked by the demon "Al" and she has to find a way to stop him attempting to hurt her and her family whilst saving a elf race all at the same time.If you have been disheartened by previous books this one should hopefully pull you back into the series.
This was even better the second time around and it's one of my favourites in the series! I loved all the page time the demons got in this book. The ever after is seriously cool and I think demon society is really fascinating. So far I'm loving my re-read of this series. it's making everything else I read really pale in comparison.
ACLARACIÓN: Aunque esta reseña tiene marcado 'spoilers' después de cada ítem, no suelo spoilear nada. Es decir, no escribo nada que arruine la trama principal. (En caso de hacerlo, lo advierto previamente con una nueva marca de spoiler!! O sea, te encajo un spoiler adentro del spoiler, porque estoy muy jugada, y soy re heavy y re jodida.)  ¿De qué trata?  Rachel Morgan, flamante corazón con agujeritos, se ve obligada a meter la nariz en lo que no le incumbe cuando el ¿mentor? ¿empleado? ¿figura
(view spoiler)[-IVY, pero hasta ahí nomás.-No me gusta Trent mucho que digamos, pero siempre que está él presente, pasan las cosas más interesantes.-Adoré a Rachel en esta entrega.
(view spoiler)[ La escena del gran descubrimiento, el (view spoiler)[ gran secreto familiar de Rachel revelado (o, al menos, UNO de los grandes secretos) (hide spoiler)] y todo lo que le sigue, me tuvo leyendo entre alguna que otra lágrima.
Y los diálogos entre Rachel y (view spoiler)[Trent, su compañero en ese viaje (hide spoiler)] resultaron muy entretenidos.
(view spoiler)[ Sí, sobre todo por lo que ya he mencionado previamente....lo relacionado con secretos familiares (hide spoiler)]
This series is still going strong, surprisingly. Generally I get bored of them by this point, but she's kept up the quality, expanded the world just enough & kept it strong, without adding a lot of extraneous gore or sex.
Wow, so many twists and turns. Good one!
Her mother is mostly doing well in this book; she has few of the lapses into confusion and dementia that have plagued her since her husband died and Rachel works to understand what her mother needs in her life, as well as leaning what her mother can do to help them both.Harrison is at her best when she focuses on the relationships between the characters(*) and how Rachel and Ivy are learning to connect with other people; this book has a lot of navel-gazing, but it's interesting navel-gazing and never gets in the way of the story.
As usual.And, of course, deal with her family as her mom gets more involved than Rachel ever wanted.The book has the usual good action scenes--Harrison is at her best with the action(*)--with the chases, skulking, bluffing, magical attacks, and shoot-outs we've come to expect Rachel to get herself into.
But this time, instead of cursing at you loudly from my bed at midnight, I was right behind you.The fallout from the previous book was massive, with white witch Rachel and her vampire roommate and business partner, Ivy, having to come to terms with their overwhelming grief.
All of these people are important to Rachel (except the demons....she spends most of the book trying to get them away from her), and despite all these people, in a way she is still alone.
This is the sixth book in the Rachel Morgan series.
Having said that, let me say that there were also a lot of things this book did better than earlier entries in the series.
Rachel also becomes aware of how many people really care about her, which is especially nice in a series that has been full of uneasy alliances (I imagine, though, her relations with Trent Kalamack are always going to flip flop around).
Rachel is growing up, and trying to leave her thrill-seeking behind her; her new method of reaching decisions is to believe if it feels right, it must be wrong.
There are some resolutions to questions that have been building in the books, such as the Ivy/Rachel relationship and how exactly Rachel can do some of the things she does.
Sadly, the book itself feels too long and has too many plot points that are superfluous or dropped.
The recaps in this book were too long and filled too much space.
Unlike some other series, power in The Hollows has a price, and even while Rachel becomes a little more powerful (perhaps simply more aware of her power) that too has a price, a heavy price.
It is nice to see that in a book.
Back to top form, great main characters maturing.
I didn't know how I was going to make it through this book knowing that Kisten wouldn't be waiting for me on the pages. I tried to console myself - I told myself that with Kisten gone, it clears the path for Rachel & Trent to possibly get together.... But then I remember how much I loved Kisten & how much I'm going to miss him...   Ok, it's time to move on... Three months have passed for Rachel since theevents of the last book & like me - she's having a little trouble moving forward
Three months have passed for Rachel since theevents of the last book & like me - she's having a little trouble moving forward with her life.
He apparently blames Rachel for his in trouble in the ever-after and he plans on making her pay - big time!
In this book we are treated to several new characters, all more interesting then the next.
not like Piscary was, but this guy is definitely no push-over, that's for damn sure!Also, it was fun seeing more of Rachel's mom.
She's clearly starting a new phase in her life....The events with Trent and the ever-after were interesting, I love him & Rachel together.
I read them sparingly, savoring the thought of still having a Harrison book I haven't read but the moment I'm done my hand wants to grab the next, it's very, very tough to stop myself at that point...that said, I can't recommend these enough for fans of good, juicy reading, I'm definitely hooked and always look forward to more from one of my favorite authors.The sixth's book has all of our favorite black and white ( and sometimes grey) characters back; Ivy, Jenks, Trent, Dave, Al, Minas, Ceri, Rachel's mom Alice, Kinsley and some newcomers, there's even a gargoyle and a new master vampire, Rynn Cormel.
Oh how far he's come since then!Merged review:Loved learning about how Ceri became Al's familiar.
I think this is my favorite of the short stories.Merged review:Still reeling from the shocking end of For a Few Demons More (Book 5), one has to wonder if the series can bounce back.
While he's not as downright evil as Piscary, he's far from a push-over.After the end of the previous book where Ceri is finally introduced to her elf kin, we learn that she's pregnant.
We learn that he can drive a stick at the end of Book 2.
and even though three months have passed for Rachel since the events of the last book, she hasn't either.
The demon blames Rachel for the fact that he is in trouble in the ever-after and he plans on punishing her every time someone summons him out.
Sure, we have some residual heartache over Kisten, some angst about Rachel's family history, and the ever-present will-they-or-won't-they with Ivy. But I was actually more wrapped up with the momentum of the action this time --and frankly, I was glad for it.
Plus a pretty big reveal as to why Rachel is so special and what that means for demon-kind.
There are things I love about Rachael...but I also sometimes agree with Jenk's and Ivy that she seems to thrive on danger 'cause she makes a lot of risky decisions....I know the series will be over when Rachel finally discovers her love for Trent - and she is one boycrazy witch.
Trent, Kisten, Marshall, David & Jenks...For those of us who love novels based in supernatural...this is a great series...kind of a grown up Harry Potter...
Kim Harrison is so detailed that I could easily see these being made into movies...Finally, as someone who hates tomates...I love, love love that tomato's wiped out much of mankind...I always told you they were dangerous!
Stuff ..
Lots of stuff.
Stuff I didn't see coming (but appreciate).
I also got my wish from the last book - more Quen, Takata and Minias - although possibly not in ways I expected.
Heh. Anyway, it's good to see Rachel finally starting to take charge of her own life.
So far, she's been kick-ass and awesome enough, but far too often in reaction, while here she's finally proactively dealing with stuff (and in some cases, even with some maturity).
Also, this is the first book where I'm slowly starting to ...
Still very sad about Kisten, and with all the talk about him, made me miss him even more.
However, this was probably the best book of the series.
I still don't like the whole idea of Rachel and Ivy and I think they should move on from that.
Marshall I think he's an ok guy.
But for some reason even through the whole hate/hate relationship Rachel and Trent have I'd still would like to see some sparks fly up there and maybe i'm just morbid and maybe it's just some far fetched fantasy I have for those two.
Nunca utiliza magia complexa (só invoca círculos de proteção e pouco mais) e quando precisa de magia ou de planos vira-se para as outras personagens, nomeadamente a Ivy (com quem tem uma relação tortuosa), o Jenks e a Ceri.
Mas se não se importam com um enredo mais simplista, um mundo que evolui muito lentamente e uma história que é conduzida mais pelas personagens do que por qualquer outro elemento, penso que esta é uma série de que vão gostar.
She continues the Hollows series with unexpected plot twists and new interesting characters.
He manages to save the day once or twice, and he also has a new tenant in the church, a Gargoyle named Bis. There is still talk of Matalina's illness, and you can feel the pain every time it is mentioned.
The story didn't need it to push along the plot, and it definitely wasn't time for Rachel to take that step with anyone so soon after her loss from For a Few Demons More.
Yeah, I'm talking about you Rachel and Ivy worshippers!)Overall this is the best book in the series so far.
Kim Harrison’s talent is beyond words and this book is the perfect example of an urban fantasy story!
It’s not easy for a series to be so good after the first books, but this one keeps getting better and better with each installment!
In this book, nothing is easy for Rachel.
The story is full of action and to many OMG moments!Rachel is one of my favorite characters in an urban fantasy books.
He and Rachel are having problems as always but for a reason I think that they would be an amazing couple.
I don’t have to say that my personal favorite is Jenks!
