https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141354.Mawson_s_Will
Bickel doesn't mention many sources but we have to assume he had Douglas Mawson's own The Home of the Blizzard Being the Story of the Australasian Antarctic Expedition, 1911-1914 to go by and presumably his diaries.
There is a three chapter excerpt from The Home of the Blizzard Being the Story of the Australasian Antarctic Expedition, 1911-1914 in my edition covering the same timeframe as Bickel.
Anyway, another smashing good read about a polar expedition where about everything that could go wrong did, up to a point.
It was pulled by the best dogs.This was so that the other two men would cross a stretch first, and the third man would be guaranteed to cross a proven path and not fall into a crevasse.That sledge fell into a crevasse, killing one of the men, killing all the best dogs and losing nearly all their supplies.They were deep into the antarctic with a deadline to meet the return of their ship.They had to manufacture their own tent and build their own tent poles.The stove could only be heated up inside a tent, which had to be pitched each time they had to eat.The winds went up to about 80 miles an hour.The dogs began to die.As each dog died, they butchered it and used it to feed themselves and the remaining dogs.Finally no dogs were left, and the two men left hauled while starving.Hoping that the the dog livers would have additional nutrition, they saved them for themselves.They began to eat the livers, boil the bones of the dogsThey keep getting stuck in blizzards and cannot leave the tent.Unknown at the time, husky livers have extreme doses of Vitamin A and can lead to vitamin poisoning.
This book has a lot if sentimental value to me. I remember my mom reading this book to me when I was a child living in Alaska and showing me the mechanics of ice bridges by laying a graham cracker across two books. It kindled my spirit of adventure and discovery!
This is absolutely one of the best books I have ever read.
I found it in the library by accident several years ago and read it for a home school unit study.
Within a few pages my world was all about following this incredible man and his companions through their travels and trials.
Home school lessons revolved around Antarctica and Douglas Mawson.
This incredible and true story left me breathless and amazed.
All these years later I still feel the excitement and passion I felt while reading this book.
I would recommend it to anyone who is looking for a great and inspiring adventure story.
I've read several stories of early explorers, including Shackleton's memoirs.
This story stands on its own two feet up there with the best of them.
I've come to believe that not just anyone could survive extreme conditions like this, even if you have the knowledge to do so.
It takes a degree of perspicacity and faith in oneself to transcend physical hardships like those presented in this book.
And, as you'll see from reading the author's prologue, there was a bit of luck involved as well.Bickel obviously did his research in preparation for writing this.
Excellent recounting of details, engaging character sketches, and awe-inspiring overall.
OH. MY. GOD. !!!!!!i'm drawn to this kind of thing, apparently.
Book Challenge Category: A Book Set More Than 5000 Miles From Your LocationYou can't get much farther from sunny Florida than the Antarctic! This book, reminiscent of Jack London's "To Build A Fire" (although with admittedly a happier ending), describes the harrowing survival tale of Mawson's expedition. Historically accurate and engaging for the reader, this is an excellent read-- and also why I like sunny weather! Moral of the story- do not eat the liver of an animal in a survival situation.
Wow!! What an amazing book!! I had never heard of Dr Mawson 's expeditions to the South Pole. This story is mostly taken from his diaries and it is a page turner. It is very human, its gripping, its scary, and its tragic! During his lifetime he not only charts 1,500 miles of coastline and claims it for the British crown, but discovers the magnetic South Pole--but at what price?? True stories of real heroes--both people and dogs.
Dr Mawson overcame starvation, bitter cold and sickness to survive. He and his fellow explorers (Mertz and Ninnis) ate their husky's livers thinking this was nourishment; but in fact, contained high levels of vitamin A, poison to their starving bodies. I always enjoy true stories involving great people and examples of extraordinary human spirit.
I'm not sure if its some left over romanticism from the age of explorers but i just love reading about the polar explorers. Mawson heroic struggle against the elememts comes alive in this book. Its biggest short coming is that even though its written by an Aussie author about an Aussie explorer, he uses miles. Like come on mate ditch the backwards measurements and use SI units
An incredible story. Even knowing all involved were long dead and no longer suffering, I found it incredibly difficult to read this book. Shackleton's Endurance story pales in many ways compared to this. Not for the feint of heart but an amazing tale of survival against all odds if you can stomach all the stress that comes with reading about it.
One cannot tell what one can accomplish! After you read this book, it will be impossible to make excuses for yourself ever again. I read the Kindle version of this book. The last fourth of this edition has a bundle of typos which make reading the text less enjoyable.
Bókin sjálf er sæmilega skrifuð og inngrip höfundar bæta miklu við frásögnina af seinni tíma ályktunum. En sagan sjálf af þessari ótrúlegu þrekraun er ómissandi fyrir þá sem heillast af miskunnarlausri náttúru og fjallabókmenntum. Þessi mun klárlega sitja í mér lengi.
WOW i am soft
One of the most awe-inspiring tales of perseverance in the face of unspeakable tragedy.
Just an incredible tale of perseverance for all 3 of the men. Mawson's own tale of his survival is beyond belief.
well worth reading--incredible what the human spirit can endure with the help of God
It lives up to the title; it's comparable, if not better, than Shackleton & John Scott.The only problem is that there are NO MAPS. NO MAPS.
Epic!
Amazing true story of Douglas Mawson's survival in the Antarctic. One of the great polar explorers Mawson's story demonstrates the ability of the human being to endure through the most grueling hardships. A must read for anyone interested in the great polar explorators.
...it is the greatest story of lone survival in Polar expedition."I was intrigued and amazed by the author's descriptions of the Antarctic landscape.The story was a page turner and made me hold my breathe......Mawson's exploration was larger and better funded than Scott's.
It makes the air so heavy that it falls across the frozen plains with increasing speed, hardening the ice to brittle rigidity so that the glaciers-...rend and fracture as they twist their way to the sea and riven into deep fissures, jagged winding cracks, called crevasses, reaching to bedrock.
The aspect of Mawson's journey that sets it apart from all others is a medical one : hypervitaminosis A or excess of vitamin A that killed one member of the expedition and nearly kills Mawson.
I was fascinated by aspects of Vitamin A toxicity and that the word "vitamine" has just entered the vocabulary about the time of the expedition and of the relationship of the Mawson expedition to later medical research in hypervitaminosis A.Mawson's trip is HIGHLY detailed and I assume based on his diary - I would have liked more information on the sources.
An engaging story set in the early 1900’s during the height of artic and polar exploration.Rated as one of the 10 best books of 20th century exploration by The Explorer’s Club, Lennard Bickel chronicles the incredible story of Australian Douglas Mawson’s 1911-1913 Antarctic Expedition.
False starts, miles of backtracking or suddenly watching your sled dogs disappear from view as the snow bridge collapses beneath them.It was a captivating read; and worthy of the 4 to 5 rating just for the story by itself.
Never the less, it is still a great book.
They didn't know about vitamins yet, though, and attributed their failing health to their general hunger and exhaustion.
Finally Mawson's remaining companion died, and he was left on his own to make it back to "The Hut", the shack they built on the shore when they first landed.
He did finally make it back to The Hut where he met up with a team of men that had been left there to look for him and his party.
Mawson would be forced to spend another winter in Antarctica before finally being picked up the following spring.
I probably would have never read this particular book without the recommendation of my brother, Rick Seley.
He felt it was the most remarkable true account of the power of human will and survival he'd ever read.
I found this book to be unique to others, genuine in its quest to document the heart and pure strength of the artic explorors of the time.
I highly recommend this book to anyone, regardless of their preferred genre.
A wonderful story that is a bit peculiarly told.
Instead, he took his own expedition to map the coast of Antarctica.
He sets off with two companions, dogs and sledges into the cold and decidely unfriendly terrain.
One companion falls into a crevasse with his dogs and sledge.
Then the other companion dies from what we now know is vitamin A poisoning.
Mawson must make it back on his own while also suffering from the same poisoning (some of the symptoms are a bit stomach-turning).
He arrives back at the base unrecognizable and too late for the ship leaving Antarctica.
I will never complain about a trifling heel blister on a day hike again. Squirmed and groaned my way through the last half of this tragic story that never quite made the headlines in the heyday of Scott, Amundsen, and Shackleton. Not for the squeamish.Rates up there with Touching the Void as an all-time favorite survival tale. Taut writing with sharp imagery - I definitely will be reading more of Lennard Bickel.Enjoyed all the photos but can't believe the edition didn't include a map - a terrible omission. Here's a link to a crudely handdrawn one.
The man with the sled packed full of supplies plummeted into a deep crevasse.
In despair, the remaining men ate their beloved and loyal sled dogs.
In the most charitable and humane gesture, Mawson passed up the choicest part of the sled dogs (liver) to keep his only companion alive.
Many years later Mawson would learn why this was the worst thing he could have done for his friend.
He's so brutalized, the men at camp just stare at him in horror and ask, "My God, which one are you?"The things human beings can survive -- amazing.
Somehow this book didn't have the passion or the sense of adventure that other books in this genre have.
Sure, it's an amazing story of survival and accomplishment, but it largely left me flat--probably because there are more interesting survival stories and there are books that are better written on these subjects.
And somehow when the publisher (or author?) decides to call it the "The Greatest Survival Story Ever Written", the emphasis is on the writing rather than Mawson's accomplishment.
And I would have to emphatically disagree with that statement.
There are many other books in this genre that are better written.
Yeah, an astonishing, fairly unbelievable survival story.
Was it worth it?
Not worth 18 dogs.
Not worth the lives of two men.
Certainly the times have changed; some of those Edwardian attitudes got routed out by WWI.That said, the survival story is riveting and sad, and our man Mawson was the most MacGyver person ever.
Plus a whole bunch of science got done by the expedition as a whole, if not by Mawson's team in particular.The author is a bit of an apologist, but it doesn't ruin the tale or the read.
