https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114124.Daniel_Ian
I actually think I liked the series more by starting with the later books, because it made me more interested to go back and read the other character's story.
And the three generations of family were a lot of fun.Nora Roberts hit the ball out of the park with this installment, which contains two novellas: one is focused on Daniel as a young man when he meets Anna and the other is a historical with Ian MacGregor.
Daniel is one of the more appealing characters I've read in a while, and his love story with Anna does his character justice.
If you love the MacGregors You will love this...Again its a combined effort of two books with the first story: For Now Forever about the love affair of the MacGregor childrens parents...
Great Story!!!
The second story is a Historical Romance: "In From the Cold"....this story for me personally wasn't as moving as "For Now Forever"...
otherwise this would've been a five star...In From the Cold deals w/ a MacGregor in the 1700s battling the British w/ a love story tied in.Both stories are recommended reads for the fans of the MacGregors & Nora Roberts Romances.
This book must be purchased...
For Now, Forever #5: Anna Whitfield & Daniel MacGregorIn From The Cold #0.2 : Ian MacGregor & Alanna Flynn
This story was cute and definitely a lot more enjoyable than the rest of the MacGregor reads so far.
Anna was a good match in her quiet, reserved, but strong-willed nature for Daniel's stubborn, bold, but sometimes gentle character.
I liked the idea of Anna being ambitious and intelligent enough to take charge of her life by choosing to become a doctor, despite what Daniel, society, or even her own parents thought.
We, like Anna, never get a chance to explore Daniel's past.
After this story, I felt like I had to take a short break from the MacGregors.
I simply didn't like it.And here is the crux of the problem, there were too many things which I simply didn't like.Daniel is 'new' money on the hunt for a bride with the right pedigree, enter the heroine who is trying to break free from her blue blood Boston family tradition and she's studying medicine.
Oh, I'm all for a girl getting flutters and feeling excited in the presence of a handsome man, but seriously, she is a door mat.Possibly my biggest beef is that to prove that Anna is sweet and innocent the author has her saying no a lot to Daniel, and then Daniel completely and utterly ignores what she says to the point where it starts feeling a bit creepy.
Her refusal to get married to the perfect young man, whom she loves with all her heart genuinely irritated me, and the language used after the servant cut her arm in accident, was slightly disturbing (something like, once you see how handsome the doctors are, you will wonder why didn't you cut yourself long ago...- creepy, right?) Alanna was too violent for my liking, the novel- In from the cold was full of aggression and rude language, such as threats to kill, and actually making person bleed, hitting full force in the face and even taking the knife.
I actually liked the first story "For Now, Forever" better than the second "In From the Cold".
They both concern strong women who are deeply in love with their men but for various reasons are not ready for marriage.
The men (being male) don't understand and take it badly at first.
But, all ends well for both couples."For Now, Forever" is almost twice as long as "In From the Cold".
I felt like more time was taken in writing this first story and it flowed well.
This marriage is bound for a "rough ride".
2 stories in one book. I enjoyed the characters and the historical part of their stories. Good beach read.
Read: 2003Rated: 9
I loved both of these love stories. It seems that I can never go wrong reading Nora Roberts!
Not my favourite books in the series but still has some good bits.
The clan MacGregor just keeps getting better.-- Raquel, Cedar Lake Branch
For Now, Forever (5 Stars)Self-made millionaire Daniel MacGregor always gets his way, but convincing fiercely independent Anna Whitfield to marry him may be the challenge of his lifetime.For Now, Forever starts out with a hospital waiting room.
We can all tell that two strong-willed people can make for a very entertaining story.I loved both Daniel and Anna, a lot of times with books it takes me awhile to warm up to the hero or the heroine but in this book that wasn’t the case.
I loved how Anna stuck to her beliefs and her dreams for her life but I enjoyed watching Daniel romance her.
in the MacGregor historical romance series revolving around the MacGregor family.Series:For Now, Forever, MacGregors #5In From the Cold, MacGregors #2 (or 0.2)My TakeWell, this was poorly assembled!
For Now, Forever is printed before In From the Cold, so if you are as obsessive as I am about reading a series chronologically, be sure to read this book backwards!
Ya'd think that Roberts had built up enough oomph in the publishing world that she'd have some say…or at least someone to watch out for her interests…The title is accurate in that the first story is about Daniel — a 1950ish MacGregor — while the second is about Ian who romanced his intended in the early 1770s.
However, he has to live for another 30 years or so to marry off the grandkids, eventually.) Anna is a feminist before it's cool and she's obviously one of the first female doctors around...and she wears long dresses...so 1930s??
In this case, though, they've only been married 30 years.1997 - grandkids start getting married, popping out kidsSo either they got married in the 1930s and Daniel is in his late 90s when he's matchmaking grandkids, or they got married in the 1940s and haven't been together for 40 years then this story happens.
Or the whole timeline is shifted forward and the grandkids are getting married in a future with no internet/cell phones/whatever.
Who doesn't want to know the origins of THE MacGregors?Anyone who had followed the heart warming love stories of Serena, Caine, Alan and Grant would likely not miss the chance of reading more about this adorable family.Two treats are in this book, one about Daniel   THE Daniel  and another for Ian.Finally! I was able to know how Daniel and Anna fell in love with each other!  This is a story about acceptance of the unconventional, disrupting the norm, understanding differences and of course, fall
Who doesn't want to know the origins of THE MacGregors?Anyone who had followed the heart warming love stories of Serena, Caine, Alan and Grant would likely not miss the chance of reading more about this adorable family.Two treats are in this book, one about Daniel 
I was able to know how Daniel and Anna fell in love with each other!
Ian is a MacGregor ancestor and one I fell in love with.
A toast for freedom and equality!!One can say that the stories were somehow predictable.
For Now, Forever: When Daniel meets Anna, their tempestuous relationship begins.
Set in an earlier time than the other MacGregor books, Ms. Roberts does an extraordinary job of showing how differently women who wanted a profession were treated just twenty to thirty years earlier.
If I thought the relationship between Daniel and Anna was tempestuous, the one between Alanna Murphy Flynn and Ian MacGregor makes it pale in comparison.
After reading rebellion I had high hopes for this one.
Nora kept the humor going which I appreciated because the book would have suffered without it.
So much so that that is pretty much all the book is about.
We get glimpses of side characters that we feel like should develop more but never do.
It is a very fast read so that is good.
With it we go back in time to see how Daniels ancestor fell in love.
It was incredibly short and rushed.Spoilerish:Daniel is rich and headstrong.
She just wants to be a Doctor.
But he wants her to quit and have his babies.
We can definitely see where the rest of the MacGregors get their stubborn pride, dignity, will to succeed, and their passion.
Daniel and Anna were as amazing then as they are now.
Also included in this book is the story of Ian MacGregor dating back to, what I believe to be, the time of the Boston Tea Party.
It appears to be the beginning of the storytelling of the MacGregors of the old.
The next tale is to be about Ian's aunt, Serena.
I recommend THE MACGREGORS DANIEL-IAN and all of the other MacGregor books.
I loved these stories finding them a great addition to the series.For Now, foreverI really enjoyed reading this story.Daniel remembers what happened as he is lying in hospital recovering from a serious car crash.
It was funny reading how Daniel had to adjust his idea of the perfect wife to win Anna.
Definitely a good story that I would read again.
XIn from the coldI loved this story about Ian MacGregor.
I loved that it told us more about the history of the Macgregors.
This was a great story set before the series and definitely a story I would recommend.
I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.
I love how strong Anna was and refused to me pushed into marriage by him, and offered to be his mistress, and it made me laugh when Daniel was dumbfounded by her actions, and her desire to become a surgeon in a time when the medical profession was just allowing female surgeons to be welcomed into the profession.
I thought that Ian was an interesting character, and how he was confronted by such a stubborn Irishwoman.
(We mixed breeds are a stubborn lot, lol) I highly recommend this book for lovers of romance and Nora Roberts.

This is a compilation of one bad book with no particular plot and no compelling characters, followed by an even worse book that not only throws all historical accuracy out the window but comes very close to the bodice-ripping rapey genre of romance novels I avoid.
I am in fact not a follower of the MacGregor series, but I don't care: even if you have read the other books in the series and desperately want more about beloved characters, I can't believe you'd want "more" of this.
بدأ عمله التجاري في امريكا ووقع في غرام “آنا”، التي لم تكترث له في البداية لعدم وجود صفات مشتركة بينهما، ولم تكن تكترث لأكثر من دراستها في الطب ومستقبلها المهني.لم يترك لها فرصة حتى وظهر أمامها بكل حالاته- تدرج في مواقفه من اللطف والدهاء إلى الفظاظة والغباء- حتى وقعت في غرامه هي الأخرى وكانت أجمل قصة حب.
بدأت الرواية من نهاية أحداثها باسلوب “استرجاع الأحداث” حيث كانت تنتظر أن يتجاوز ازمته الصحية خارج غرفة العناية المركزة التي يرقد فيها برفقة بناتها أولادها.
It was a simple and predictable romance novel that I actually enjoyed.
I like how Nora Roberts decided to tell all of the stories of the MacGregor's.
You get each of the family members unique stories.
Daniel's story I found was a lot more interesting than the story of his ancestor, Ian. I think if the author had spent a little more time developing Ian's story, it would have been a more captivating read...but you can't really expect much from a paperback romance.
I would recommend it to anyone that can stomach a romance novel and wants a quick and easy read.
I only read Ian's story, so I won't rate this book.
But "In From the Cold" only deserves maybe 2 stars.
Allanna really annoyed me.
She was equal parts rude, uptight, naive, abrasive, and stubborn.
I can't even come up with one positive thing to say about her.
But she worked all day long to take care of three grown men that could take care of themselves quite a bit more, so she went overboard with it and that part isn't a positive thing in my eyes.
*sigh*The only reason I kept reading was because of Ian. He can host my tea party any day.
For Now, ForeverAnna—Daniel's wife of forty years—relives her remarkable courtship, when meddlesome matchmaking patriarch and self-made millionaire Daniel MacGregor faced his biggest challenge: to convince the love of his life to marry him! Here at last is the story of how Daniel wooed and won the fiercely independent Anna Whitfield and launched his formidable dynasty.In From the ColdIn this story about an eighteenth-century MacGregor, we learn that battling the British couldn't prepare Minuteman Ian MacGregor for the fight he's got on his hands to win the heart of Irish spitfire Allanna Flynn.
The setting and the strong Scotch characters are what make this book fun for me.
You never know who is going to strike your fancy in a Nora Roberts novel (assuming you are a fan).
I have always liked the head MacGregors, and am glad to have finally read their story.
Ian's story is good as well, but much shorter than Anna & Daniel's, which is probably appropriate given the importance of the first.
A light read, with a female character who stands her ground against stereotypes and society in many ways while giving into them in others, a common theme with Roberts' works in these eras.
I am not big on "romance novels".
I do like Nora Roberts writng, although I have only read a couple of her books.
I do like the "McGregor"series she writes, mainly because of the story line of love of family.
Her characters are strong, and fiercly loyal to family.
Some of the books are very mild with the "romantic" details and some more intense.
I won't really read any new romance novels, but if I find one in this series I haven't read, I will read it.
The McGregors are only fictional, but she shares alot of life lessons with them.
