https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47455.Publication_Manual_of_the_American_Psychological_Association
... featuring perhaps the most absurd rules of all time for citing references.
The whole point of this book is to provide clear instructions on how to format a scholarly paper that is produced for a college-level class.
Nonetheless it functions well enough to act as a lookup-reference for details on formatting a paper, citing references, and constructing the reference list properly.
If you have acquired the "sixth edition,first printing" then you should visit th APA website and download the corrections.
If you have the second printing or later then the corrections should be already applied.There is also much supplemental information that was not put into the book for whatever reason, visit www.apa.org to access this information and well as to see the latest updates.
Firstly, I have to say that this reference was required reading for my Masters degree.
I don't know WHAT possessed the university to select this horrible publication manual.
Secondly, unless you're forced to use it, I would never recommend this publication to another scholar.
I felt like I was walking into the inner circles of the Inferno with Dante Alighieri.
I find the styling to be inconsistent.
They really need to find an information architect for this book to increase the user's ability to find the right reference style when they need it and not turn writing a research paper into an exercise in frustration.
Like, why you gotta be so different in-text and in your reference list, APA formatting?
What's the deal with not capitalizing article titles like they're titles?I mean, all style guides are arbitrary, but the perverse decisions that this particular style guide makes to distinguish itself from others kind of get on my nerves.
I can kind of attempt to justify these decisions in the context of the social science publications that use this style, but when I'm being forced to apply the style to my one-page summary of the week's reading, I can't help but resent the sillier nuances of the rules.
This book is the standard issue for describing APA style publishing.
All the information found in this book is found on the web site apastyle.org which of course is the most comprehensive.
The main shortcoming of this book is that it states that for spelling reference, you should use the Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary (2005).
When I asked the publishers about this, they stated that the changes weren't made because of the date they went to print, and that any copy of the 11th Edition should do.
The web site, however, still refers to the 2005 edition.
My struggle with quantitative research was an affirmation that there's a creative nature in me that may respect the rules but will always be frustrated by the exclusive confinement of analysis.
2) I respect the rules of writing, but the confinement of research with exclusive, superior notions restricted to academic networks will always get on my nerves.3) I love reading, but my attention-span is short with journals (especially quantitative research).
(I would rather read a 300-page book than a 20-page quantitative research published article in a journal.) 4) Regardless of all the above, I do like this book because it taught me how journal articles are meant to be written and formulated.
I have looked through this book more times than I can count.
It is not exactly something I could sit reading cover to cover however it is an excellent resource book for APA6.
I have gotten more information on how to ensure papers are correctly cited using the APA6 settings.
Something I was corrected on quickly was in the area of using certain punctuation such as et al during citations and ensuring resources are done correctly when there are multiple authors.
This resource is highly recommended to anyone that needs it for writing papers.
I was required to purchase this for my thesis during my first graduate work. What a bore! Needlessly complicated. It wasn't even useful as I had Internet sources at the time and it had no style guide for them. The Chicago Manual is so much better than APA.
This is a must have if you do a lot of writing in APA format. This book answers every question one might have about writing in APA. It also give numerous examples. Great book!
I mean... it's the APA citation guide, so you get what you'd expect. But it's really laid out to give a lot of information in a really insightful and meaningful way that aids in retention. Also, it's really easy to navigate and find things when you need it for citation purposes for writing papers and such. Not bad for resource materials.
I hate APA. With a burning passion. Why did I choose a degree with all writings in APA? *Sigh*It's full of information but it can be confusing for the first half of the book because it goes so fast and doesn't explain things very well.
I laughed. I cried. I haven't enjoyed a publication style manual as much since MLA 3rd. APA 6th was a page turner compared to MLA 8th.
SCHOOL!!The type on the sample pages is difficult to read.
Is what it says on the tin. Well organized, thorough, dry.
A standard reference used far more widely than the title implies, this is a handy guide to all the nitpicking format questions that come up in a lot of academic and professional writing situations. A tool every writer should have on the shelf.
It doesn't tell you how to site Web pages, and the index wouldn't let me find most things I needed. The in-text citation information wasn't helpful, either. Is it possible to give something negative stars? MLA is so much better.
Hate, hate, hate this book and everything about it. The last edition was so much easier. This one - it is hard to find anything - I found it easier just to look things up on line than in here. Very choppy and not set up well.
This is an excellent tool for anyone using APA format for writing or editing social science research papers. It's clear, concise, and so far has answered any questions I have had well writing in this format for many years. This is the 5th edition copyright 2002.
Everything you need to know about proper APA format. You know you want to read it!!
Not a book you can really like or dislike. If you need to know APA it is a required read, if you don't ... it is the sure cure for insomnia :)
An absolute MUST HAVE for anyone who writes: students, practitioners, etc. I use mine just about every single day! Well organized, and information is easy to find.
Text book.
Great for writing a paper. Also great for curing insomnia.
very old, but the only copy I have available at the moment.
Every college student should have this book on their shelves
The manual discusses style and content of manuscripts for publication. Bias, punctuation, abbreviations, and spelling are covered as is proper citation of sources.
One of the most hard to use reference books I've come across in a while.
How many people that reviewed this book actually read it?
Further, how many of the reviewers have actually done research proposals and submissions to journals that utilize the APA style?
This all culminated in an acceptance and appreciation of the APA style.While many students and professionals I know use online “reference builders,” or worse, ask one of their peers how to format a particular reference, I always say the same thing, “take a look it’s in the book”!
Further, many of the same students, and professionals, that dislike the APA style are the same that have never read the book!
This was a required textbook for several of my graduate level courses and I used it here and there.
I actually read through the book and in the first half of the book, I found lots of interesting tidbits and general grammar and punctuation use that will be relevant to everyone.
The book was probably not necessary for the courses since the website for APA and many other websites have all the information I needed.
The book would be an essential need for anyone who is trying to write for academic journals as there is a ton of help for formatting and writing for journals.
Had to read for a class. There are inconsistencies with citations, the style in which it was set up is very disorienting, and, perhaps the main bit I did not like, they did not consult with disability group re: preferred language prior to updating the manual in 2017. There is research readily available suggesting that "autistic" is the preferred term by autistic people and that person first language is socially stigmatizing. They did not follow their own advice to use preferred language.
