https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23190986-edge-of-eternity
The characters in this book unlike characters in his previous books (that I really enjoyed) are caricatures. Follett lets his liberal politics come though with no subtlety - all the blacks are good all whites are evil and bad-intentioned. I'm sorry to have wasted my time reading this left-wing drivel.Very disappointing given the talented storyteller Follett can be.
Sadly not nearly as well written as the previous books in this trilogy. The first third was as we're used to, descriptive and captivating. The rest seemed like he was in a hurry to finish, and is rushed and padded with a lot of clumsy sex. Very sad, I was so excited for the at installment and was left wanting better.
I can summarize it for you this way: Liberals are brilliant, dashing, successful, all-knowing, always wise and prescient.
Reagan gave a silly speech telling Gorbachev to "tear down this wall", which apparently had nothing whatsoever to do with the wall a few years thereafter being torn down...
In fact, it turned out that Gorbachev himself pretty much unilaterally killed the Soviet Union...
Who knew?If you lean liberal and need to have your fantasy world upheld by books where liberals can do no wrong and conservatives can do nothing but, this is definitely the book for you.
One character gets drafted, and it's a bit of a stretch, and he spends all of about 2 pages in Nam. Those are some of the most forced pages in the entire book and of course Follett goes all BABYKILLER for those pages, and no real mention is made of them again.
I'll put another spoiler tag below and then discuss it, because it's the funniest, most ironic bit for me.ENDING SPOILERSSo, as I mentioned earlier, Follett spends some time building all of the right leaning characters into these evil cartoon characters.
And he harbors no doubt about attention spans in an era when people avert their eyes to smartphone screens approximately every 1.2 seconds.Ken Follett again tackles great chucks of history in Edge of Eternity, the final installment in his Century Trilogy, which covers 1961 through 1989, and includes such epic events as Vietnam, Kennedy’s assassination, the Civil Rights movement, the Cold War and the fall of Communism.
I was a kid but I remember how communism was: the wake up at 4 in the morning for the queues if you wanted to buy something, the fear of expressing yourself freely etc.Follett tells his stories by placing readers into bedrooms, boardrooms, even at the Berlin Wall as it comes down.
ريفيو مبدئيكل عام وانتم بألف خير..نستهل قراءات العام برحلة كين فوليت التاريخية الصاخبة القويةFirst 2
Maybe as a standalone version it would have been better received, but as the third of what had been a superb trilogy I was let down.First: Why drop so many characters we were invested in the first two books and which in the closing of the second made it look like we should look forward to what happens to them?
The seond book ends with him being a leading Labor MP and him digging up Ty Gwyn's gardens for coal.Second:No payoffs for many of the characters we do get to follow,More than once Natalya keeps mentioning that she would like to escape to the West and that Vasilii (her author friend) deserves to get the recognition he deserves.
very strong first part covering roughly 1961 - 1963 (Berlin wall, fight for Civil Rights, the Cuban 
so many world events took place during the time period of this book that it felt like the characters were forced into the story rather than the story being built around the characters.
I can't wait to read this book! Fall of Giants and Winter of the World were so good I could hardly put them down.
I read an advance copy of the third in the Century Trilogy Follett who is probably best know for his thrillers is also a great writer of historical fiction--Pillars of the Earth may be the best piece of historical fiction I ever read.
It is the monumental (1100 pages in my copy) of a monumental time --1961 to 1989.
The book was like reading a movie ( I mean that in a good way), story flowed, the characters flowed, it just worked.
All in all it was a great read
It pains me to give a Follett a low rating; however, this just wasn't good. Stock characters against the political background of the last half of the 20th century just made this story too long. And where was England in all of this turmoil? Not one single mention of Margaret Thatcher. Seemed to be forcing a particular political agenda also... As I said about the second book in the trilogy, too broad a canvas to be effective.
Long, long long and boooooring. I would say the first of this trilogy was the best...the second was only ok, and this one was not very good. I just didn't care about the characters, what happened, etc. It was not suspenseful or engaging. Sorry Ken Follett, I love you but not this book!
It's funny....when I read a Follett novel......I dream about the characters while I sleep at night, as if they are real people.
So I look at several copies,before I decide that this is the one), I counted 5 people either asking an employee about where the latest Ken Follett novel is, or a couple people discussing how excited they were to read it.I will admit, this is not War and Peace material, (Matt!), or deserving of the Nobel Peace Prize for Literature,but it's enjoyable ,and engrossing all the same.
Start with Fall of Giants,and Winter of the World,and then this one.
She stood out as a character out of character.Finally, this epic fact and fiction heavyweight is a story of victory: of freedom and democracy after a century of earth's bloodshed; the realization that was once a Dream - the attainment of civil rights after such violent struggle, culminating into the making of America's first black President; the failure of communism, the fall of corrupt world leaders and - not to be left unmentioned - the triumphant heralding of the birth of Rock and Roll.
Thought it was adolescent. I have read other books of Follet's and this one read as if someone else wrote it. Perhaps it is because I lived through this era, that there was a knowing of the linear plot, but I just don't think it was well written. Sorry. No recommendations here.
Tackling the largest historical arc, Follett brings his characters to life at a time when the world saw epic change, continuing storylines from past novels and adding new layers with another generation of characters to push the trilogy ahead.
However, Follett pushes the argument (in all three novels) that history shapes not only borders and elections, but also those who create it, from commoner to political giant alike.For those, like me, who invested the time in the audio version of the novel, a word about John Lee is surely in order.
However it literally felt like this book was written by another author, who basically wrote an encyclopedia that had sex scenes in it to make it interesting.
I felt like this was added in to keep people's interest, because the rest of the story was just not up to what I would expect from Ken Follett.
But people in the U.S. are so used to the media being biased in favor of one team or the other, that they think anything said bad about their team, means someone is biased.
Ken Follett continues to produce great novels.
Follett also integrates the key political figures, assassinations, protests, and strife of the past 50 years.
But, what really makes the novel are the great characters he has created and their descendants, who help bring together all of the seminal historical events.
Most of the novel, perhaps even too much, focuses on the 1960s: love, war, drugs, rock 'n roll, political leaders in the US and abroad.
I think Follett missed the space race in his portrayal of US/USSR relations, but including it would have pushed the book well over the 1,098 pages.
This is a good one to read in e-book form.
Worth the time to finish just to say I did it, but not even close to the quality of its precursors.
I am a big fan of Follett's previous work.
Characters patronizingly summarize and re-summarize their lives like a 6th grade history teacher trying to prep students for a test.
Connections between real and fictional characters are painfully and unconvincingly contrived.
Female characters annoyingly think and do things only a man would imagine.
Finally, the revisionist history of memorable events is riddled with so much banal liberal bias that it ruins the storyline involving people/events in the U.S.
I have read almost all of Ken Follett's books. They are great stories. Let me just say that if Ken Follet's new book is anything like his previous books, I believe it will be great. I have to admit that I have only read the outline of the story but, from the little I read Follet's new book will be interesting. Sorry I if I gave the impression that I had already read the whole story.
Edge of Eternity reads like a Young Adult fiction. Plot lines follow the same routine as the last two books. All love angles seem forced in awkwardly. Very disappointing.
Os dois primeiros livros desta trilogia tiveram do seu lado a vantagem de representarem curtos períodos de tempo que foram dominados por grandes acontecimentos, tais como a Primeira e Segunda Guerra Mundial.
As personagens com que nos deparamos não tem qualquer força nem interesse e além disso, parece que levamos uma grande aula de política intensiva, que se baseia sobretudo na opinião do autor, discorrendo assim de forma não imparcial.Ficamos com uma sensação de ficar a mastigar durante imenso tempo a mesma situação e torna-se efectivamente uma "eternidade" ler este livro.
Follett knows how to make you turn the pages. He's a master story teller. But this was a rush job, to the point of being insulting. Would a character in the 1970s really say "yada, yada"? For some reason that annoyed me more than the repeated paragraph, the ponderous recaps, one dimensional characters and mawkish, cliché ridden writing.All the same I had to finish it - more fool me.
Pero supongo que eso va con el gusto de cada uno: personalmente, no tengo demasiado cariño por los personajes de libros anteriores, así que esto fue lo que me produjo.
Lo pongo así porque, oh mi Dios, si buscaban una novela histórica que reflejara perfectamente la vida de las personas de la época, ¡busquen en otro lado!Yo sé que Follett necesita su dosis de promiscuidad en sus libros y de vez en cuando viene bien algo de erótica en la lectura, pero en este cruzó la fina línea que define mi cordura.
I was anxious to get back to the continuing saga of these 5 families whose lives intertwine as history unfolds.
I am not sure I loved this one quite as much, as the time frame of the 1960's thru the 1980's were familiar to me as it is my history.
I am sad to let these families and their histories go.
I almost want to speed up time so that Follett may continue his saga into the 21st century....give us a glimpse into the future generations.
3.5 STARSBook Three of Ken Follett's Century Trilogy began as an UNPUTDOWNABLE 5 Star read for me, but soon lowered to a page-turning 4 Stars, then an interesting 3 Stars and even took a dive to 2 Stars in a few instances....hence the 3.5 Star rating.EDGE OF ETERNITY covers the tumultuous 1960's thru 1980's encompassing the shameful Civil Rights era, the disheartening assassinations of JFK, MLK and RFK, the unbelievable horrors of Vietnam, the tyranny behind the Berlin Wall, the nerve-racking times of the Cuban Missile Crisis, (Tricky Dick) Nixon's impeachment, plus the beginning of the awesome Rock and Roll music era; BUT after all that, disappointedly failed to even mention Neil Armstrong's historic walk on the moon televised on July 20, 1969......(we watched it!)Having been a young teen in the 60's, I lived through and remember most of the facts and events portrayed here, and for the most part, felt the novel informative and a good refresher on true events of the time.
Após quatro anos de início da trilogia O Século, eis que esta chega ao fim com No Limiar da Eternida
Este senhor conquistou-me com "Os pilares da Terra" e penso que será difícil a sua suplantação... Talvez um dia Ken Follett me surpreenda...Ainda assim, esta trilogia é fabulosa! Talvez este seja o volume "menos bom" dos três, mas leva as 5* por ser o fecho de quase 3000 páginas da história do nosso século XX, que tão brilhantemente foi aqui retratada. E não poderia ter melhor final do que a queda do muro de Berlim!Bravo, Ken Follett, uma vez mais...
In big multi POV stories you always have that one character who's chapters you can't stand and slog through just to get to the good characters. That dude was Dimka. Dimka sucked.For me, George Jakes carried the book. He was definitely the strongest and most interesting character of the bunch.
