https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295305.Wolf_Brother
Wolf Brother by Michelle Paver is a wonderful kid's book about a boy, Torak, and his Wolf and their quest to keep a promise he made to his dying Fa. The author obviously did an enormous amount of research to make this book realistic and full of details from nature making it a great story that I read to my son.
He fell in love with all the characters and was on the edge of the couch nearly from cover to cover.
Highly recommended to kids 10 and up.Special callout to Biblio Curious who suggested this book to me.
So I loved this book.
It is so different from any middle grade I have ever read.
I loved the obvious amount of research the author did to make this prehistoric Native American fantasy story really come across well.
Wolf and Torak's friendship is what I aspire Nanook and my relationship to be.
I think there were some areas that could have been better namely that the ending was very rushed when compared to how much struggle and adventure came before, but I'm boosting my rating because of its uniqueness.
I think there are going to be some crazy things ahead for Torak!
I like this book because he kills the bear.
I read this book in one night, need I say more?
I think Paver could not have woven together a better story.
Wolf has a deep love for Torak, and their mutual respect for each other is shown through the gestures and communication Paver describes.
I particularly enjoyed the dual points-of-view in the book.
One of my favorites of Wolf's terms is for fire, which he refers to as "The bright beast that bites hot." Paver's description of details is fantastic too, her imagery is persistently vivid and gripping.
this is ultimately my favorite series ever, fight me on it :3jk i'm too "nice" to fight but i'm freaking trash for this series
Everything is so clear in one's mind, it's like they are standing there next to Torak, smelling the delicious aroma of smoking elk meat or observing the tracks of a young auroch.The differing narrations too, provide an insight into the world through the eyes of an animal, namely Wolf, of course.
You really get the idea that Paver has thrown herself into extreme research.At times, the occasional cliche can be found, but the endless twists make Wolf Brother a thrill to read, and I found myself unable to keep my eyes off the pages.Really, it's so good it's distracting.
Moram da priznma knjiga je mnogo bolja nego sto sam ocekivao. Kao prvo atmosfera je odlicna, stvarno te uspesno prebacuje u ogromnu i hladnu sumu punu opasnosti ali lepote. Likova nema punao ali su fino definisani i imaju fin razvoj tokom price. I iako je u sustini knjiga za decu imam osecaj da je racnija i strasnija nego mnoge grim dark novele iako nema puno krvi, jako malo nasilja ali to nekako jos vise istice u prvi plan kada se nesto strasno dogodi.Slobodno probajte, necete se razocarati.
Wolf Brother is a prehistoric wilderness survival adventure that pits a 12-year-old boy and his wolf companion against an evil spirit bear that threatens the survival of the forest and all of the clans. This was a very enjoyable read for me, and I will look for more by this author. (suitable for pre-teens through adult)
Onvan : Wolf Brother (Chronicles of Ancient Darkness, #1) - Nevisande : Michelle Paver - ISBN : 60728272 - ISBN13 : 9780060728274 - Dar 295 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2004
I, not thinking about purchasing it, started to read and was immediately trailblazing each word.
I like how the author showed different POV between Torak and Wolf.
Also like how Wolf thinks, (to Wolf Torak is known as Tall Tailess because Torak can speak Wolf but he has no tail).
The relationship between Torak and Wolf gets more significant as the book goes on, so much so, that when danger came towards them, I prayed that nothing would happen to them!
I recommend this because it's a great story and plot which is different from normal books.
For example, the ritual of respect young Torak showed to any animals he killed, thanking it and promising to use every part to sustain life (the hide, bones, and meat).PLOT (no major spoilers): A suddenly-orphaned youth and his wolf cub are destined to save the world from a malevolent demonic bear.
As his father (Fa) is dying, having been mawled by the bear, 12-year-old Torak makes him a promise: To journey into the frozen North, to the tallest mountain, home of the World Spirit, and plead for help.
Torak must also offer sacrifices to the World Spirit, including his own heart's blood.
You keep turning pages, and learn of the setting, set back 6,000 years ago in the continent of europe.
You flip the page to the next chapter, and learn of the main character of this story, Torak.
Do you set the book down, and continue what you were doing before you jumped into the adventure of wolf brother?
Or do you continue on with flipping page after page, reading about Torak's difficulties, the friends he makes, suspenseful moments, and surprises during his journey?
Just ask anyone who has read the book or heck, the whole series!
Loved it. The ancient world was exciting to hear about, to see what the author has pieced together from fact to create her own, very unique and quite credible land of ancient darkness and magic.Fast paced, and full of adventure.-----it's as good as ever. Started out with the audio book but finished with the actual copy. i much prefer this way but the audio was very easy to just slot into my day.
I reread this for the third time, this time aloud to my sister. Even after reading this three times, I still love it and find excitement on every page! This is my favorite series of all time, I may even like it more than Percy Jackson...
At that point in time I really hated romantic Young Adult novels and enjoyed fantasy and otherworldly settings.
It is a very original book and in the young adult shelves you won't find too many like this.
it is action filled and the time passes just like harry potter and unlike the series of unfortunate events.
Paver is able to create characters who are relateable and who GROW as the time progresses and as they learn from their experiences.
So many creative factors are woven together in Paver's plot that this world comes alive.
I would recomend this book to everyone because i liked it and i normally hate to read.
It is about a boy (Torak) who lives in the forest by himself because his father was killed by the evil bear.
They journey together through the forest and get caught by a tribe out in the wild while they were hunting.
The evil bear has been going around to a lot of different tribes killing people and they blame torak for it because he is the listener and can talk to wolves.
I liked this book it was an adventure full of suspense.
Fantastic series to share with your kids! It's middle grade. They live in the wild, so there are some hunting scenes that could be intense for sensitive children. The boys I taught were fine, some girls too. A couple girls didn't like those parts, but they all really enjoyed it.Great pacing and character development. It has elements of magic and tonnes of educational elements relating to nature. Great discussion topics to have with kids about respecting nature, technology, friendship and survival (an age appropriate approach to survival)
It is abut a journey through dangerous perils. I liked the main characters. T was exciting to read.
On his journey to the mountain, Torak meets a recently orphaned wolf cub who becomes his guide, and then the boy and his wolf are captured by a tribe who wonder if Torak will fulfill their prophecy and save them from the demon-bear.
Meanwhile, the bear still hunts them.Michelle Paver’s Wolf Brother, the first in a series of children’s novels called The Chronicles of Ancient Darkness, is a serious and gripping story.
This aspect of the story was disappointing, but it was so well written otherwise that I still enjoyed it.I read Wolf Brother on audio.
Can Torak and his wolf make it to the mountain in time before the bear is too powerful and destroys the forest?!
The book is set back in time and goes back to where there where a lot of different Indian clans.
The thing that shocked me though is how the author had real facts in the book that was about the food, clothing, and things they did for survival.I strongly recommend this book to people who like a book that keeps you on edge throughout the book.
This would be a good book for people who like animals, adventure, and suspense.
Not only was this book fictionally entertaining, but Michelle Paver succeeded in making it a page turner with Facts.
Fire, earth, water, air, and spirit all play a important part in these series.(view spoiler)[ Whether it's fighting Orcas in the sea, running through fires in the forest, getting smashed my mountain rocks, or fighting for will of your spirit, The Chronicles of Ancient Darkness will keep almost anyone, of any age, entertained.
When Torak is tracking in the forest you can picture everything, you can smell everything, hear everything, feel everything, and hear everything.
I am absolutely in love with Wolf Brother!
I can’t believe it took me so long to read this series.
The first thing that stood out for me about this book is the unique setting and time period.
How many YA novels can you name that are set in the Stone Age?
You know that she did her research because of the way the lives of the character were portrayed.
I don’t know much about the Stone Age so I am very eager to learn more.
I also love the magical element of the book too.
Wolf Brother is a great start to the series!
Torak and his father are outcasts from their tribe, living in the great Forest as hunter-gatherers.
With the help of an orphaned wolf cub and a girl called Renn, Torak comes to discover his powers and to use them to fulfil his destiny.Michelle Paver manages to convey an amazing sense of place and immediacy in this novel, sometimes writing from Torak’s point of view, sometimes from the wolf’s.
The language and concepts in the book would make it appropriate for readers of 9 and above, and I would recommend it as a class novel for Y5 or 6, or a group reader for those age ranges.
Wolf Brother is set thousands of years ago in an enchanted world split into clans and territories.
There is more to this situation than meets the eye, but that will be revealed over the next 6 books.What is so special about Torak?
Torak will start on an adventure that will be overwhelming, supernatural and intriguing.
He has special gifts in that he can talk to wolves and he is totally joined with his cub and Wolf Brother.This is a great book for children of all ages including 40-year-old children.
One of my favorite parts was when Torak meets Renn at the raven camp.
At first sure they weren't friends but as there unexpected journey went on they learned that they needed each other along with Torak's companion wolf.
There is also constant disappointment through out this book that Torak and Renn will endure.
The Title Wolf Brother fits this book perfectly as Torak's ability to talk to Wolf carries them closer to each other almost like brothers.
So why don't you read Torak's fate as he heads out on the journey against a powerful bear with powers unimaginable.
This is a book for all ages and I really enjoyed reading it. It's full of action and at the same time so easy to read.
This demon will destroy Torak’s world if it is not stopped and, in his father’s last moments Torak makes a promise to him, to find the one place where the demon can be defeated or die trying.Paver’s writing is some of the best I ever seen, especially given she wrote this series for a younger audience.
The detail she goes to describe the forest, the animals, the tools and methods used by man really draws you into the world making you feel as if you are wandering in the forest 6000 years ago.This one more than deserves the full 5 stars and I will be re-reading the rest of the series from here on.
Tourak and his wolf set out on a quest to take on a terrible bear. Wolf Brother is an exciting story of action and adventure, along with a bit of magic.My husband and I listened to this audiobook. It's a 1001 Children's Book You Must Read.My husband's rating: 🌟🌟🌟🌟My rating: 🌟🌟🌟🌟
Leona's favorite books #1 completed!
Cringe worthy cliche opening chased me off, too bad, since this is usually my type of subject matter. DNF.
