https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/427252.Creatures_of_Light_and_Darkness
Zelazny’s stories often leave me scratching my MENTAL JUNK searching for a new means to describe his impressive creative chops. Well, after several brain limbering exercises, I came up with COSMICaweTASTIC SUPERBitude to describe this lesser known but amazing piece. I'm not sure exactly what it means but I think it's something positive. This is certainly one of Zelazny’s more creative works, which is really saying something given his penchant to WTF his reader with bizarre and unique imagery. As
As with other Zelazny works, he has created a rich, lush backdrop that infuses ancient myth with far-future technology all placed in a “dying earth” type setting peopled with unique characters of dubious morality.
Feel free to skip it if you don’t think it would be helpful: Begin Wikipedia BackgroundThe Universe was once ruled by the god Thoth, who administered the different forces in the Universe to keep things in balance.
The story takes place many years after the above background with Osiris and Anubis still maintaining a balance of power in the universe through their ability to destroy and create life.
Roger Zelazny scored a hit with Lord of Light, a moving SF retelling of Hindu and Buddhist myth.
Home Alone 2: Lost in New York hovers between dull and embarrassing.Well, this is Zelazny's Home Alone 2.
He's decided to do Egyptian mythology instead of Hindu/Buddhist, but none of the symbols and images gel, there's no plot to speak of, and most of the time it's pretty much impossible even to tell what's going on.
That'd serve everyone right.To be fair to Zelazny, it says on Wikipedia that he didn't actually mean to publish the book, but Samuel Delany somehow tricked him into doing so.
Bad, bad Samuel Delany!
It's multi-structured poetry, reading like a novel at times & just when things start to make sense, they don't really.
I really like the experience, but at times I think Lord Uiskeagh has the right idea.WORDSBetween you and me,the words,like mortar,separating, holding togetherthose pieces of the structure ourselves.To say them,to cast their shadows on the page,is the act of binding mutual passions,is cognizance, yourself/myself,of our sameness under skin;it rears possible cathedralsindicating infinity with steeply-high styli.For when tomorrow comes it is today,and if it is not the dropthat is eternityglistening at the pen’s point,then the ink of our voicessurrounds like an always night,and mortar marks the limit of our cells.“What does it mean?” asks Lord Uiskeagh the Red, who is out with twenty men to raise the Border-side against Dilwit of Liglamenti.His party leans through fog toward the rock where the words are graven.“Lord, I’ve heard of these things,” remarks his captain.
Poglavlja počinju s kratkim postavljanjem scene i onda dođe neki neprijateljski nastrojeni lik, pa se malo nadmudruju riječima ili jednostavno čavrljaju, a onda svatko izvadi svoje oružje po izboru i krenu."Živećeš manje od minuta", kaže Horus, "ako mi ne otvoriš ovu kapiju.
A što dalje odmiče kao i u slučaju prethodnog kojeg sam nedavno čitao, On koji oblikuje ima sve manje smisla.Uz to sam zaplet...zaplet?!
U Stvorenjima svjetlosti i tame se malo više kontrolirao i općenito je čitljiviji nego u On koji oblikuje, a i prijevod je, čini mi se, bolji - no to je možda i do drugačijeg stila pisanja.
Цялото повествование е пропито с любимите ми ирония и самоирония, които авторът успява да поднесе почти незабелязано, постоянно играейки си с старите вяврвания на човечеството.Корицата на първото издание е чук.Не съм чел оригинала и знам, че Зелазни е накарал не един преводач да крещи и хвърля ръкописи, но нещо ми убягва в превода – няма го тънкият граничеща с поезия финес на словото му, а се губи и част от постоянно съпътстващият произведенията му лек хумор.
И както ми каза един приятел, който не беше спал цяла нощ, когато му я дадох да я чете: "Върховна!
Zelazny was one of the cleverest of the SF writers emergiing from the 1960s, in the stew of New Wave, and also one of the gutsiest.
"Creatures of Light and Darkness" is his riff on Egyptian mythology, set in a "future" wherein the ancient conflicts of the various gods---Anubis, Osiris, Set, Thoth, Isis, and Typhon---are once more met in an ageless attempt to establish who's in charge.But wait!
Set the Destroyer is not just the Egyptian god, but partly Vishnu, who is engaged in an eternal struggle with the universe itself.
The plot is somewhat hard to follow, but you can very well read the book without that.
The story works like a kind of impressionist painting, where every short chapter acts as an image rather than a plot fragment.
To be absolutely honest, althought I only read that book a few months ago, I'm not sure I remember every detail of the plot...Still, the style and atmosphere are very poetical and enjoyable.
If you like traditional Japanese theatre and SF, do give it a try.
(Original review date: 2 August 2011)If you're ever in the mood for complex, confusing, grandiloquently-phrased science fiction that retells ancient myths in a far-future cosmic setting with advanced technology granting godlike powers upon petty, immortal human beings, then do yourself a favor and read Zelazny's Lord of Light.
It's extraordinary.And if, after reading that, you want more of the same (and don't mind if it's just a little worse in every way), then you might want to try Creatures of Light and Darkness.It's not that this one is bad - it's that Lord of Light does all of the same things and does them so much better.
Не си го спомням такъв Зелазни, но сигурно защото не съм обърнал достатъчно внимание точно на тази книга, или пък просто сега го възприемам по друг начин, повече от двайсет години след прочитането на последното негово творение.
Този микс от фантастика и фентъзи ми се стори някак повехнал и неубедителен, наситен с прекалено много философски капани, които хвърлят в потрес несвикналите, или пък само навеждат на мисълта, че авторът се е пренесъл за известно време в някакви негови си сънищни територии.
Не трябва да се забравя и това, че книгата на Зелазни е рожба на шейсетте години на 20-и век и може да крие в себе си повече, отколкото аз мога да видя.
1968 – Roger Zelazney picks up the phone and is greeted by his agent, Danny Rose.Danny: Rog, baby, just got off the phone with my pal Murray at Doubleday, you know how much they love you at Doubleday.Roger: Really, they love me at Doubleday?Danny: What?
I told Murray, I say “Murray, you want weird, you’re calling and asking me can Roger W.
Murray, this is Danny talking, Roger can do weird.”Roger: Wow, OK, like Sam Delaney weird?Danny: We all love Chip, believe me some more than others, you - you don’t want to know, but more weird than Delaney.Roger: Alfred Bester weird?Danny: Alfred Bester weird, Roger, are you listening to me?
Genius, I’m going to tell Murray you’re a weird genius!
This was amazing. At first, the disjointed narrative stream us kinda jarring, but Whoa! Zelazny outdoes himself with his genius. I'm sure in the hands of a lesser writer, this book would've come off utterly short of the marvel it actually is. This was a splendid read, full of vigor and imagination. A work of art.
So maybe I have no idea what I’m talking about here.)There are a lot of things that make this book interesting, not the least of which is its history-- Zelazny never intended to have Creatures published.
(The others being the Chronicles of Amber and Lord of Light, which are both better than this book, but that doesn’t make this book any less awesome.)If you’re not a Zelazny fan, you may not like it.
Another great mix of science, fantasy and mythology from Robert Zelazny - interesting, involute and paradoxical experiment - 'quintessence of chthonic creatures'.
It's not my first Zelazny's book, so I got used to his bizarre way of writing.
The dialogue between Anubis and Wakim about life and death is very philosophical.
Interesting concept of the universe, consisting of The House of Life, The House of Death and Middle Worlds.
And the temporal fugue, when a person projects himself behind his enemy - in both time and space - is something unbelievable!Recommend people who like fantasy and mythology.
‘Creatures of Light & Darkness’ is surely the most quintessentially Zelaznian of all Roger Zelazny’s books, almost to the point of self-parody.
It is likely the only Egyptological science-fiction book to conclude with a chapter-length chamber verse-drama - shades of Thomas Lovell Beddoes...Apparently Zelazny intended it as an ‘exercise’, not for publication - it certainly has an unfinished and experimental feel - and was only convinced to publish at the instigation of fellow-fantasist Samuel Delany.
But if he did write this book purely for the desk drawer it must represent the last quixotic gesture of his spectacular early career, before he settled down to a regular output that was always interesting, occasionally remarkable, but often rose scarcely above the level of hack-work.
I notice this one has a legion of followers. Let me be one of the first to disagree. I read this one some time ago and as a rule I like Zelazny. This book however left me cold. There is an odd distant even, patchy feel to it for me. I didn't care for the story nor it's execution. Still, there are a lot who like it so make up your own mind. I may re-read it at some later date, just because it seems so popular with so many.
Encountering this book in college got me so interested in Zelazny, then a new writer, that I later went and read, to little good effect, his entire first Amber series. Other than being a good story, the novel works as a refresher course in ancient Egyptian religion and feeds my own interest in making sense out of religion in general. It probably contributed to my switching from a history to a religion major or, at least, its reading was symptomatic ot this trend.
Организиращият принцип не е този на гледната точка, на драматическата структура или жанровата граматика – а на натрупващия се към кулминация (или повратна точка) аргумент, потопен в опияняваща сетивна мараня.Всичките тези черти на текста са силно свързани с езика на поезията и надали Зелазни не си е давал сметка за това, предвид че, по собствените му думи, книгата е писана като упражнение (друга интересна легенда гласи, че за модел авторът бил използвал собствения си опит от работата в офис).В поезията исторически много по-силно е застъпено метафоричното писане, а до голяма степен заради това поетическият език повече и по-често прилича на код, който трябва, или поне може, да бъде разгадаван.
These words that are constructed in sentences which are contained within this book that I am reading yesterday cannot be framed in my mind.
The reader, who is me, and me being the reader in question, is confused and crashed, destroyed by this Thing That Is Framed Within The Book, and only questions do live inside his puny mind.
Questions which the reader hopes would be answered by someone smart enough, some hero who has 5 star-on classes within this page on Goodreads and who is able to read this text.The reader is destroyed and no more.
Це було дуже ламано, пласкоперсонажно та навіть близько не наділено тією увагою до міфології, що була у Князь света. Втім, роман має доволі непогану форму, де кожен розділ (хоча така стилістика і вибішує своєю непостійністю) написаний інакше. Окремо ці уривки написані добре, але разом зшиті навмання, бо це чергова офігезна історія про Желязни, який (опціонально) лише вправлявся у письменницькій майстерності/робив це на спір/робив це лише в стіл, аби не забути, як воно - коли пишеться. І такі історії від роману до роману також починають вибішувати.Пи. Си.: тут знову квазібезсмертні, повернення того, кого вважали мертвим, помста і все таки. типовий Роджер
Riletto dopo due decenni, per la terza volta, questo romanzo continua a sorprendermi e stupirmi per la sua profondità nonostante il mix tra fantascienza, fantasy e mitologia non si possa dire del tutto riuscito.Eppure c'è qualcosa in questo breve romanzo che mi piace veramente molto. Probabilmente è il fatto di delineare un universo con poche, sparse pennellate.Unica pecca è la sua brevità: con le idee qui presenti oggi un autore probabilmente ne trarrebbe un ciclo di oltre mille pagine.4 stelle e mezza.
In a word: confusing.
The book is written in scenes that don't really seem to connect, barring the characters themselves.
Characters who are hard to care for with how often the books chops around them.
It kind of takes away the enjoyment of the story.
The scenes are mostly well written but there are a few which are hazy, through lack of care or on purpose I'm not sure.
I've read that Zelazny was never intending for this to be published so maybe that is the reason in the different in quality but certainly if I had read this book first, I wouldn't have read lord of light.
This book is a mash-up of science fiction, fantasy, Egyptian mythology, Greek mythology, poetry, and an acid trip.
Creatures of Light and Darkness was originally conceived and written as nothing more than a writing exercise in perspective by Roger Zelazny.
Zelazny constructed an entire chapter in poetry and made the concluding chapter into the script of a play.Unlike other books by Zelazny, such as Lord of Light or the series The Chronicles of Amber, this novel is more poetic in style and contains less straightforward action.
However, like other novels, Zelazny incorporates ancient myth, in this case from Egyptian and some Greek myth, and weaves ultra-futuristic technology with fantasy elements.
Many of the Angels wander the worlds as immortals.Now, Anubis has raised a champion, a warrior without a name or a history, to kill Toth, who is now called The Prince Who Was A Thousand.
To make things interesting, Osiris hears of this and despatches his son Horus to do the same thing, as the one who kills the Prince would become the most powerful force in the universe.
What made me like the book though are the various extremely bizarre and absurd sequences.For example, an oracle is visited, who specialises on reading stuff in human entrails.
Revealed that Set is a master of “temporal fugue,” and can “make time follow the mind” (26).
Steel General, rides Sleipnir (42), has a metal body, is “a kind of negative Orpheus and men follow him to Hell,” and “one of the very few masters of temporal fugue” (43).
Noted that both Horus and Osiris had independently destroyed the Steel General in the past (56).
So, yeah, very nice.Great moment when one entrail reader reads the entrails of a rival entrail reader (83-84), and another when Steel General and Set have a temporal fugue duel (85-89) that basically destroys the planet on which the contest occurs.
I picked this up because it was handy in the library, and because it is often considered to be a thematic sequel of sorts to Lord of Light, which I rather enjoyed, only with an Egyptian rather than subcontinental-Indian mythological conceit.In the course of reading it, I learned from Wikipedia (no longer linkable from reviews, because spammers) that the whole thing started out as a writing exercise, unintended for publication, until Samuel R.
This is IMO useful to know, because it certainly reads as such: it strikes me as considerably less polished than other works of Zelazny that I enjoyed more.
Превръщаш се в хаос сред реда, с една заблудена, лутаща душа, която не знае на къде да се обърне, коя сюжетна линия да проследи, в коя фуга да е пъхне, че да излезе на правилното място и в правилното време, така че да не пропусне някой важен факт от историята и събитията, които не спират да се въртят и въртят, да се оплитат едно в друго без излаз да се развържат и да се стигне до края на историята.От първите страници се запознаваме с Анубис.

This was one of Zelazny's earlier novels, and I was surprised to find how well it holds up; better, in fact, than than LORD OF LIGHT and the Amber sequence, in my opinion. He mixes mythology (Egyptian) with some of the common themes of science fiction and fantasy in a dream-like style very characteristic of what was known as New Wave back in the day. His mix of techniques comes off very well, and produces a short and beatiful story.
13.11.2016 - 3,5*Za příběh 3*. Za fantazii 4,5*. Překladatelský oříšek si zaslouží plno plusových bodíků. A za Prince Který Byl Tisícem 5*. Žába... .)
Creatures of Light and Darkness (1969) specifically repeats some of the effects of Lord of Light in a desolate Near Future haunted by Egyptian deities in this case Equipoisally unexplained.
