https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4953.A_Heartbreaking_Work_of_Staggering_Genius
It's a hasty sneer with perhaps some basis for its attitude but certainly not in the review as written, and the author would gladly delete it save for the fact that it hosts a comment thread other people find productive.So enjoy discussing AHWOSG on this thread, but if you are awaiting a response from me on the merits of the book or to further explode in fireworks of snark, I'm afraid you'll be waiting in vain.
it's *so cool* to be post-dave-eggers, and talk about how you didn't really like this book all that much, and it's even cooler to totally hate this book.
"did you like his book?" "yeah, I really did." "well, we can't be friends with *you*..."this is just like those hipsters who don't like justin timberlake.
that new album is solid gold.I loved this book.
at one point in my life, I had several (*several*) copies of this book, and I gave them away and lent them out and now I have none.
I wish to god I still had that one.and listen, cool kids.
Dave Eggers looked into the future and saw that I would want to read a self-referential, self-satisfying memoir.
He knew that I would be trying to figure stuff, being in my twenties and all, and while not dealing with the enormity of losing both parents and having to rear a young sibling, I would have my own shit to work through.
No, I didn't HATE the book.
If I had HATED the book, I would have given it one star, right?
Hey, maybe you've even started skimming this review.
That isn't why I read that kind of book.
I disliked so very much about this book.
But the heart of the book, the story of Eggers and his young brother trying to be each other's whole family after the death of their parents, is genuinely sad and funny all at once, a difficult feat to accomplish.
I wish he'd stuck to telling that story instead of trying so hard to make me think he's a staggering genius.
This book made me realize how much I resent authors playing around with style before they've proved to me that they can just tell a sory in an effective way.
the pros: yes, it's funny at times and very *honest* (though can we take eggars at his word?
i laughed out loud several times while reading.
many of eggars observations are insightful and funny.
the 'here's a drawing of a stapler' was a good one, but the novel is short on humor and long on 'look at me and feel badly for me and my poor little brother.' in the end i just didn't care, nor did i have any reason TO care.
the prose isn't anything write home about -- it's sloppy and unfocused (and what's the dropping the 'f-bomb' 20 times per page?
I hated loved was totally frustrated by was sucked into couldn't stand couldn't put down dreaded picking up wanted to like was attacked by wanted to burn finished this book.Alternative title: A Self-Indulgent Work of Festering GeniusThe worst book I couldn't put down; the best book I've ever wanted to set on fire.Updated: Found in my bedside reading journal:- it's self-conscious & pretentious, but pretentious in the way that smart kids are when they're trying to be cool but are still riled up by grammatical slips etc. — betrayed by their own proclivities
Having never read a word he'd written, I immaturely thought I had every right to hate him.
However, this fear, thinly cloaked as a juicy eccentricity has dissipated a great deal upon reading Eggers' triumphant, naked, brutally pure and dramatically veracious window into a life bereft of normalcy.What is normalcy?
It happened to Eggers and his siblings.
Still just a child, Toph grew up under the sometimes bizarre, always concerned eye of his older brother Dave.The center of AHWOSG is truly the great and hilarious relationship Eggers has with Toph.
I swallowed my jealousy and loved it.
I think it’s the twentysomething prospect of near-continuous coitus that’s to blame, making the text at times almost a giddy stream of consciousness.
Every waking moment, my God, the pressure to be hot...Then our narrator and his friend are fucking on a public beach at night.
It’s as if they can’t turn away from this spectacle of sex.
Then our narrator makes things worse by threatening to call the cops.
Reading it 17 years after publication it feels like a kind of period novel, not unlike Saul Bellow’s Humboldt’s Gift, but without the big picture view of geopolitical and celebrity shenanigans.
Such dense writing, about nothing important - paragraphs and paragraphs of random crap, like throwing a frisbee, or whether or not he will sleep with a girl and then being unsure what actually occurred afterwards.
Just a timeline of his life bringing up his brother after his parents died.
Moving from house to house, the paperwork he forgets, the difficulty of juggling his social life with the raising of a dependent.
But the writing was just so tedious, so bulky, I didn’t like it, skimmed a lot and just generally felt like I’d wasted my time.
I liked the premise, just not the execution.
I can sort of remember picking up this book in a bookstore somewhere and reading the first few pages… now, not the first few pages of the story, but I’m talking about the copyright page.
Swear to God I’m not looking this up: Magic Johnson, Larry Bird, Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen, John Stockton, Karl Malone, Charles Barkley, David Robinson, Clyde Drexler, Chris Mullins, Patrick Ewing, and the one college player Duke’s very own Christian Lattner (I don’t know how to spell his name… okay, I looked it up- it’s Laettner) And really what ever happened to that guy?
Don’t let someone else’s opinion sway you.” But that did get me to thinking if there were books that men preferred over women, and vice versa.
I hated this book like The Cure hates happiness.
I understand writer's have their own style, and that is what, in and of itself, separates them from all the others.
It gives the mind's eye a break, a breather.
Eggers, a rebel in his own mind, discards such mannerisms.
Aside from that debilitating hindrance, the book is THE example for egotism gone awry.
Now, before you start, yes, I am aware that a memoir book is, essentially, an ego stroke.
But the good writers, they have the ability to make you forget that it's merely self-indulgence, sweep you up in their lives...in their story.
All I'll add is that the first time I read it, sometime in the middle of college, I had all of the negative reactions I've read here.
It was sometimes funny, and sad and beautiful and all that, but mostly it was an autobiography by an asshole who was full of himself and I just didn't see why I should care, why I should keep reading.
Maybe I became more of an asshole myself.
Honestly, I think that he delivers enough that I don't really care what kind of guy he is.
At the very least, I think that he's trying to get more people to read and write.
This book has not aged well.I read it when it first came out, somewhere around 2000, and I remember loving its high-energy sentences and how Eggers shared his emotions about losing both his parents to cancer and taking guardianship of his youngest brother, Toph (short for Christopher).
My reaction this time was almost the total opposite: I hated the author and how narcissistic he was, I thought his writing was pretentious and too clever by half, and the book was SO LONG and tedious that it needed a better editor.
I was sick of Eggers'self-absorbed schtick after three pages of the preface.
But, the cover read"pulitzer prize finalist" (among other superlatives), so I forged on.
I'd madeit to page 33 of the actual text (without laughing once) when I noticed Eggers'picture on the back cover.
He reminded me of some people I'd met when I wasworking at a startup company during the early internet boom.
They were so fullof themselves with their free-wheeling style, their stock options, and theirflat-front banana-republic slacks.
I felt they were full of shit, but it tookme awhile to act on that feeling with confidence, and, thus, to stay in school.
Here's the jist: Eggers is an almost-household name writer who abuses his witty (ha-ha-ha) title and confounds the reader with an (incredibly dragged-out) insistence upon his own life story.
Oh, Eggers: We truly care about you (why else read 400+ pages of your life?)!!!
Post-modernism is promised throughout, as if this novel device will leave the reader awe-struck, as if the work shall surely be "staggering"!
The only development here is the author's promises of a "straightforward" first half and a whimsical, self-absorbed postmodern second half.
I really enjoyed his asides, and found myself smiling when a conversation between Eggers and his younger brother evolved into a metatextual examination of Eggers' entire venture.But then I got to the long form interview and the wheels sort of fell off the back-half of the story.What worked as cute, funny, or poignant in the first half turns into some sort of artistic ouroboros in which Eggers rarely grounds the story enough for the more experimental tricks he's trying to pull off.
No doubt that the book is readable despite its experimental trappings: I read through it in sessions that were long, but I seldom felt as if I were putting in work.
I don't really know, but I resent an author who turns me into a guidance counselor or youth pastor on my day off.In this imaginative account of his early life, Eggers was on track to earn a journalism degree until the deaths of his parents within the same year--his father from brain and lung cancer, his mother from stomach cancer--force him to take time for himself to Question Everything.
Joe stomps over to his friend with a book in his hand.JOE: There's like thirty pages of preface and introductions to this book you recommended, man.BRYAN: Oh, you don't need to read any of that.JOE: You're telling me he wrote this book for himself?BRYAN: You can skip it.
Fool.Dave Eggers is preoccupied with heart-rending human dramas of Promethean magnitude, as his follow-up books What is the What and Zeitoun attest: he is that long arterial cord thingie linking the heart with the mind.
So it's hard to review such a maddening and addictive, charming and twee, frenetic and furious, hilarious and infuriating novel as this.
I left the book feeling slightly cold, however, somewhat overly aware of this book's artifice: the self-conscious asides reveal a jarring truth about the book-being-a-book that makes it hard to connect with on a visceral level.
i've narrowed the potential culprits down to just half the class already, but it's going to be pretty hard from here, considering the INSANE amount of students who thought "stream of consciousness" was an adequate way to convey all emotions, character development, foreshadowing, suspense, and or basic plot, for the entirety of their novellas.it's ok though, i'm going to work this out.
not even they could make it through 400 pages of very very very little bodice ripping sex.so that leaves, of course, the emo kids.
It’s clear before the book begins that he’s got that Gen X hipster axe to wield for sarcastic, irreverent purposes.
Since he playfully/helpfully includes a key to the book’s metaphors in the preface, I thought I’d explain that my use of “axe” is meant as something to grind and also as something to swing as he hacks his way through the bonds of literary convention.The story itself is about how he, as a young twenty-something, had to face the death of both parents within a few months of each other and then raise his 8-year-old brother.
This much is clear, though – he truly likes his little brother.
Mr. Eggers has a genius for two things: finding and publishing some of the more exciting writers working today; turning "Weeee! Weeee! Look at me!! I am beautiful and so good to my little brother!!! Weeeee! Don't you want to touch me?" into 496 pages.
OK, I give up @40%. There are some nice ideas, few interesting scenes and fun dialog here and there but it's all buried in cum from all that verbal mastrubation.
Instead of wallowing in grief for the entire novel he refuses to confront his emotions and whirls around like a frisbee comically avoiding the world.What got to me about this book was that while I read about his life after his parents' death, while I laughed at his jokes and listened to his rants, while I tried to make sense of his rambles and his pointless thoughts mentioned it seemed only to avoid thinking of anything important...I could still sense the emotions he was trying to hide.
This is the first book I've read by Dave Eggers, and I've been told not to judge his other works based on this memoir.
Eggers actually did have an interesting life and he tells his story in stream-of-consciousness (sp?), which I found to be really interesting...at first.
Anything to be finished with it.I don't know if I can count it as a book I've read, considering I never actually finished it.
But I think having read 421 pages should count, don't you?Needless to say, I found this book highly disappointing.
anyone that employs the phrase "a bird the color of feces" in their writing should be, for evermore, prohibited from publishing anything. i once heard someone say that dave eggers is the most important writer of his generation, and, thus, lingeringly, i tasted said bird. as atrociously destitute as his works are, and oh god make it stop, his dedication to 826 is quite commendable, and nearly offsets the damage he's effected by writing books in the first place.  see also kerouac, jack on the road
but it's not completely ironic/innacurate either..Eggers has a great little thing about Irony/the title being ironic/the book being ironic..
I know it's weird to think that profanity can "work" or not, but it's true..
That was also effective; a less skilled writer couldn't have pulled it off.Eggers is a very skilled writer, I think, though it's easy to miss because you're busy being entertained (and having your heart slightly broken) by the events in the book.Also, the relationship between him and his brother is awesome.
I think Eggers pulled it off effectively and with great aplomb.
This did not do much for me. It was readable but I am very unsure of why it was so loved. I suppose young parenting is not something I want to know more about.
A sério.” (Não o li) - 2 – “Não há nenhuma necessidade culminante de ler a secção dos agradecimentos.” (não li) - 3 – “Poderá saltar a página do índice, caso esteja com pouco tempo.” (consultava o índice durante a leitura de cada capítulo) - 4 – “A bem dizer, muitos de vós talvez queiram saltar boa parte do meio, nomeadamente as pág.
264 a 367, que tratam das vidas de pessoas com pouco mais de vinte anos, e é muito difícil tornar-se tais vidas interessantes, mesmo quando elas parecem interessantes àqueles que as vivem nessa época.” (não saltei nenhuma página) - 5 – “Para falar com franqueza, os primeiros três ou quatro capítulos talvez sejam tudo aquilo com que alguns de vós venham a querer incomodar-se.
At his worst, well, it's still huge.For whatever reasons, usually tears or boredom (tears the first half, boredom the second), I found I could appreciate the book a lot more if I only read twenty pages at a time.
Sometimes all the epic grandness of life and death and frisbee just takes it out of you.It's a difficult and rambling book to read, but you can learn from it.
I learned how to write like Dave Eggers, which is not necessarily a marketable skill, but it amuses me.
Even though it took a month and some serious eye-rolling to get through it.Three stars for its linguistic novelty and for the first half of the book.
Maybe I would have appreciated it more otherwise, but so much of it felt derivative, and I kept thinking to myself that I wish I was reading DFW.I actually really enjoyed Eggers' postmodern gimmicks: the notes and acknowledgements at the beginning of the book, people breaking character in the middle of a conversation to provide meta literary analysis (via Eggers) of what's currently happening.
That sense of clever self-awareness is prevalent throughout, and it's smart and it's interesting: it provides a worthy commentary of memoirs as a literary art form, and is a bold achievement of brutally honest self-analysis.
