https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122212.Waiting_to_Exhale
This is a case where I actually thought the movie was better than the book. The scene where Angela Bassett's character torches her philandering husband's vehicle with all his worldly goods inside was worth the price of admission.
A group of us decided to reread the story to see if it would have the same impact on as mature women.
She’s hoping that even though she’s taking a pay cut, that life in Phoenix will be very different for her, especially in the love department.
Robin has been doing every single thing she could think to find a man to love her.
What I absolutely love about WAITING TO EXHALE is that McMillan allows you to see the women in different stages and witness their growth.
While desperation is the obvious fear, they all learn to love themselves, which is a very important lesson for all women.
Then in African American Lit class for my junior year, we watched the movie, and I still hated it!But it wasn't until I went to college that the book and its' leading ladies reverberated with my soul and outlook on men, life, and love!One of my friends, who is Hispanic, said the book was stupid!
And I vehemently told her she'll NEVER experience what Black women feel and deal with!Yes, I was blind as a teenager, never dating and/or dealing with men until college, but damnit, I see now!
Audio # 147Fantastic novel about empowering women who aren’t perfect but can learn from their mistakes. I loved being given a peek into their minds and listening to them make their decisions. I’d probably make the same ones.
This is the tale of four black women who are friends in early 1990s Phoenix, Arizona.
She tells us, "I worry about if and when I'll ever find the right man, if I'll ever be able to exhale." Her friend from college Bernadine is being divorced by her husband who has insulted her by leaving her for a "white woman." Because, she imagines, he needs a white woman to treat him like a king.
I do like the sisterly solidarity between the four, but for me the plot is creaky, their voices too similar, this doesn't strike me as all that well-written and all the male bashing got old as the women move from one jerk to another.
Not exactly sure why I read this. I suppose it was entertaining enough, but the writing was atrocious. The dialogue seemed wooden and disjointed (not to mention unnecessarily vulgar at times), but maybe since I was born in '86 I can't properly understand the plight of thirty something black women in the early '90s. Either way it was a quick read. I didn't hate it, but I also was disappointed by the lack of resolution at the end. I may have been better off just watching the movie, lol
Savannah's move to Phoenix seems to coincide with changes in all their lives, as Bernadine finds a life outside her husband (after a scene made famous in the movie where she dumps her husband's designer suits in his BMW and sets the whole thing on fire), Gloria begins to let go of her son, Robin realizes that she doesn't always need a man to be with her, and that it's better to be alone than with the wrong man just to be with someone, and Savannah learns to let go and open up a little bit.::: All For One and One For All :::Throughout all the ups and downs with men, some serious and some downright comical, what comes through is how important friendship between women can be, both when life is going well and when it's not.
Господи, какая отличная книга
the movie & the book were great !
I read this book in High School =)(= & i SEEN THE MOVIE BEFORE THAT.
THE MOVIE DID THE BOOK JUSTICE & THEN SOME.
I CAN SEE MYSELF AS A ROBIN :).I think all the women deserved what they got especially your girl Bernie she's the real winner and had a good heart through and through.These women were successful, intelligent, & just fed up (who wouldn't be) black women deal with alot and these sista's did and still remained strong and depended on eachother.
But with god and your sister girls anything is possible.
This book has so many early 90s moments that I was often laughing as the characters listen to Paula Abdul in their Nissans while committing various fashion and hair crimes.
No suede dress or fuschia lipstick is left undescribed.The detailed episodes of lousy sex that the main characters endure with every possible kind of loser are funny and icky.
This book has a light-heartedness that is endearing.
Music is for dancing and champagne is for birthdays.Unfortunately the character development is not as lovingly detailed, and I often could not remember which of the four major characters was narrating because their voices are too similar.
More like 4.5 starsWaiting to Exhale is one of those books I should have read years ago.
Literally every woman and her mama have become familiar with the lives of Savannah, Bernadine, Robin and Gloria, and I did also, but through the movie version (which I love).
But now that I've finally read the book, I can say it lives up to the phenomenon it once was back in the early 1990s.
Of course, it's much more fleshed out in the book, and I can see how Terry McMillan stirred so many black women and how the novel inspired countless imitators in its genre.
I love how nineties this is!
McMillan draws such great characters too - and has such a lovely, real storytelling style - I was surprised about how salty the language was!
And I loved it!
It made me laugh.it is light - think sex and the city before sex and the city even existed - and its mainly about getting a guy (which got a little tiresome after a while) but under the lightness there's grit and steel!
i think this must have been pretty revolutionary for black women when it first came out!
Great quick read!
I first read it in high school, because I'd always heard the book and movie were really good.
But I was like 15, 16 years old so I thought I'd think better of it if I read it now since I'm older.
Gloria and Marvin were done better in the movie than the book.
I think I dislike Savannah more now than I did in high school, because it's so obviously that she thinks she's better than Robin, but she makes the same or even worse choices than her so I don't get where she gets off making all of the preachy rants that she makes.
One of my favorite books by her.
Phenomenal book! I read this book thinking that it would be something that I wouldn’t understand because of adult women problems. I finished thinking about how I’m going to face things like this in the very near future! Terry McMillan does not disappoint! 10 Stars!!! Reading Getting To Happy next!
I really liked it, but the situation with the father was wrapped up and brushed off too quickly.
I love the book and the movie! I saw the movie first and I had to read the book. Great book and definitely one of my all time favorites.
It was a bit difficult to keep up with all the different storylines, but I got it after a while. This book is a roller coaster, but it's very real to a lot of Black women. I have seen this happen to friends of my mother and my mother even. It's a story that needed to be told from this perspective. Ms.McMillan did a good job.
But the beauty of the book being so dated is also that I got a great feel for 30something 90s life, the author is incredibly descriptive of the music the women listen to, the slang they use, the popular contraceptives and the clothes they wear.
I hope the author exaggerated the character of Robin because I shudder to think they are women out there who are that foolish, although I didn't appreciate how her friends slut shamed her constantly (so I guess I'll give McMillan credit for making me feel an ounce of sympathy and understanding).
I'm trying to read writing with more diverse experiences and points of view, and I have a vague memory of seeing the movie and enjoying it--mostly Angela Bassett's fiercess and that crazy scene where she destroys her husband's car.
And even though I didn't really like this book, I don't know if it's because the character are as awful as I think they are, or at least partly because of cultural differences.
*shakes head*) But Savannah was a responsible, hardworking person and a good friend (no matter how the women all talked to each other--I assume that's just a cultural difference?).

Wonderful reading - sweet and easy, but leaving a taste of solitude on the tip of your tongue.
I found bits of myself here and there in every female character, as I'm sure every woman who reads it does.
After all, as different as we are, most of the time it's about the same things: solitude, first moment excitement when you seem to have found The One, disappointment, passion, fireworks, bitterness....
etc.Huge thanks to the author for leaving it without all those cheesy happily ever after endings...
because life sure isn't like this all the time, and for most of us it's constant search...
I started and finished this book on Thanksgiving day 2007.
(My parents work Holidays so festivities were bleak) I think I'm going through a breakup?
Dude completely stopped calling.
Great book to read if you want to speed up the recovery.
Reminds you some men are just pansies and you're lucky if you have good friends to take the edge off the stings.
Twas a therapeutic experience.
Funny because I watched the movie for the first time 2 years ago after a more substantial breakup and it was one of my many therapeautic acitivies.
This book was okay for me. I enjoy McMillan's style of writing and really wanted to love the characters. I rooted for their stories but struggled to care once I realized that their lives were so focused on men with little resolution, they were desperate and needy and I couldn't identify with any of them. There is just so much more to life than men and it seemed almost that the characters didn't enjoy anything else. I will say I enjoyed the sisterhood but there is so much more for them to experience.
This was such an enjoyably readable book.
It wouldn't pass the Bechdel test...
and that is JUST FINE.
This book is a poignant snapshot into the lives of four late 30s black women living in the early 1990s.
They are navigating the perils of being women, of being black, and of being at various stages of single.
The book captures the times and the struggles.
It is written realistically, in language real people used.
Sure, there were moments of superfluous stuff, but all in all, it was a very enjoyable, honest read.
But I don't believe it because the one I've been on for the last two years was a dirt road." After months of depression, shopping and dating all the wrong men, she's getting by with a little help from her friends -- and still determined to find the Real Thing ...BERNADINE HARRIS has the kids, the house, and the BMW, but a young white bookkeeper has her husband.
On the verge of moving to her fourth city in fifteen years, she's lobbying the Lord, "Could You send me a decent man?
Could he be full of zest, and please, a slow, tender, passionate lover -- and could he already be what he aspired to?" This book made me laugh and I give it 4 stars and a 8 A fun read I loved it.
This book is a 3.5 and not a 3 but also definitely not a 4 stars book.I liked the first half but during the second half I started to get bored.
I love books about women and their friendships so I thought this would be a great book for me which it was at first.
I do remember I did watch the movie which I really liked and I think was very different then this book.Normally I hate reading a book once I've watched a movie but it was so long ago I hardly remembered the film.
I'm actually sad that the novel ends here. I am glad the leading ladies all got their happy endings. I heard there's a sequel, but as I've heard mixed reviews, I'm not sure if I'll be picking that up.More thoughts to come, but McMillan fit a LOT of the black community's issues into 400 pages without doing too much. Waiting to Exhale is just as relevant today as it was back in 1992.
Silly,silly but funny too. An African American version of Sex in the City but nowhere near as good (but what could be as good as SATC??)An interesting point of view, enjoyed the 80's and 90's references to pop culture, and a fairly happy ending too. The book was just a celebration of female friendship and to that I can relate as I have been blessed with wonderful girlfriends who are like family to me :)A quick, entertaining read filled with lots of "oh no he didn't" and "damn girl" hahahaha
