https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177576.The_Great_Wall_of_China_and_other_Stories
not sure if it's سور الصين or قناة السويس الجديدة
This collection contains some of Kafka's other major short stories, as well as his numerous one-page sketches and excerpts of his aphorisms. 'Investigations of a Dog' is one of the very finest pieces of literature I've read. A triumph of artistic, comic and philosophical imagination, exploring the possibilities of knowledge, perception and reality. His aphorisms (written between 1915 and 1920) are also significant in itself, highlighting the existential depth he was willing to delve into in order to make some sort of sense over (his) existence.
من أصعب ماقرأت على الاطلاق
يدرس كافكا فى هذا العمل احوال الصين العظيمة حيث يتحدث عن علاقة الامبراطور بشعبه و عن رؤيتهم له .يبدا كافكا بالتحدث عن السور وكيفيه بنائه و الغرض من ذلك "لصد هجمات الشماليين "و يشكك فى ذلك بقوله ان هذا هو السبب المعلن فقط .يعرض كيفيه البناء واسباب وجود الكثير من الثغرات فيه .
عبر الصين الذى لا يحد"  وبهذه الكلمات يصف ماحدث من علاقه بين العمال .ويعرض ايضا الحكمه السريه بين الصفوه :"حاول بكل ما اوتيت من قوه ان تتفهم اوامر القائد الاعلى , لكن فقط ..
Do not even listen, simply wait.
The world will freely offer itself to you to be unmasked, it has no choice, it will roll in ecstasy at your feet." -Reflections on Sin, Pain, Hope, and the True WayI am completely charmed by Kafka's short stories and aphorisms.
Some reviewers have been miss-listing the short stories in this volume.
It doesn't contain a lot of his most well-known short stories, like "In the Penal Colony" or "The Hunger Artist," or the one about the ape's report.
Begin with the book IN THE PENAL COLONY, and only venture here if you've already fallen in love with Kafka.
Various short stories (generally not as good as in Metamorphosis) and a short play. Several have legal/bureaucratic themes and others continue his habit of first-person musings, imagining himself as another creature (Report of a Dog and The Burrow). The Burrow is a very touching insight into the concept of home as a castle, fear of intrusion and persecution etc - very easy to add a Jewish spin to the interpretation.See my Kafka-related bookshelf for other works by and about Kafka (http://www.goodreads.com/review/list/...).
نصوص متفرقة لكافكا بالكاد تفهم منها شيئا, عن محادثات لبناة سور الصين و رجل يطارد من رجل آخر و حيوان غريب مثلث الوجه يسكن حائط معبد و اسئلة وجودية لا تنتهي لكلب و رجل تظهر له كرتان تتقافزان في غرفته وشخص يسكن في سطل فحم يظهر أمام بيت أحدهم...قصص مثيرة للجنون! و لكن بعضها جيد..أو هذا ما أتذكر
لا أعلم إن كانت النسخة الأصلية بهذا السوء أو أن حظي في المترجمة سيء.
La subordinación es la primera de las dos; el infinito, la segunda.”No creo que este libro sea el correcto para los que se inician en el autor, ya que al no estar familiarizados con el estilo literario de Kafka-de carácter fragmentario en este caso-, puedan no comprender de que se trata esto que tan bien definió Borges, y se sientan un poco desconcertados.La edificación de la muralla china, el cuento central del libro, nos relata una parábola donde se intenta construir una muralla tan vasta que no alcanzarán una ni muchas vidas de trabajadores para poder terminarla.
Dentro destes 3 contos encontra-se o "caroço" de Kafka: a obsessão.
Este é o segundo livro que dele li, por isso não me parece possível que possa dizer que o conheço, ou à sua obra, mas tudo o que li me parece entoar da mesma maneira e rodear o mesmo assunto.
Demorei muito tempo a acabar estas poucas mais de 100 páginas só pelas "Investigações de um Cão".
Pareceu-me forçosamente obsessivo e bizarro, de um modo diferente da minha leitura de "A Toca".
Estas 3 estrelas não são 4 apenas pelo meu interesse nas histórias, que caiu a pique a meio da última (as "Investigações").
Bu neydi şimdi?
Kitabı sene içinde bitirmiş de olsam tam bi' sene sonra okundu diye ekliyorum çünkü happy memories and stuff.
نصوص متفرقة وهلوسات كافكاوية،، عن الوجودية، العبثية، الضياع
After books by Orwell, Steinbeck, Kawabata, Faulkner, Roth and Palahniuk (one of these is not like the others), “The Great Wall of China: Stories and Reflections” (a book on my shelf for nearly 20 years) was practically left standing alone, flashing in garish neon and throbbing like a thumb just hit by a hammer.With apprehension I relented, and for days since finishing it I’ve been somewhat rudderless, my Kafka compass no longer dutifully pointing to true north.
Both sirens and Ulysses seems to be aware of each other’s tactics and each is trying to better the other.The Great Wall of ChinaAn allegory on absurdity that a common man finds with his role in (God’s ) grater plan regarding the universe.The Giant MoleHow the thing that is most important part of your life can be seen as of no value to others.
It can also be read as an allegory on miracles – showing the problem of lack of belief in miracles.
Giant mole being the miracle, the village school teacher being apostle and the business man being believer.
existem infinitas versões da grande muralha da china - erguidas no tempo, no espaço, nos olhos, nas memórias, nos arcos supraciliares dos crânios esvaziados e esquecidos.a muralha que kafka ergueu passou a ser a mais evocada pela criança, ao longo dos anos, porque é a mais real.a grande muralha da china, o milenar trombolho, ex-libris da estupidez humana, acaba por ser o mais concreto representante de um dos espectros mais invocados por kafka - aquele bocado informe de nós que não é animal, ou o processo humanizado de ser.
Kafka himself left instructions for these writings to be destroyed after his death, instructions which were disobeyed by a certain Max Brod.
I have to think that Kafka's wishes should have been met.I feel that I am being my usual generous self in rating two stars for this collection.
It began quite well with the first short stories, perhaps my favourite among them being 'The Hunter Gracchus', but with the Collected Aphorisms and most of the subsequent pieces, I became less and less engaged.Disappointing, as Kafka's 'Metamorphosis' and 'The Trial' were influential fictional works from my youth.
I have a love-hate relationship with Kafka. Sometimes he bores me to death with a story that doesn't seem to go anywhere, or simply narrated coldly.In this collection of short stories, he amazed and shocked me with his power of narration. In "A Report to the Academy", he voiced an ape whose only way to achieve freedom was by imitating men. He wrote, as usual, in a dark, grim and absurd tone. The style I found in some of my current favourite authors.
This made no sense at the beginning, maybe Kafka has some deep meaning entrenched but it comes off as just a historical study of the building of the Great Wall. The second part of the piece was first class in its analysis of how common peasants, though called upon by the government to do much of the dirty work for them, are never involved in the process of government and treated with disdain from those hailing from the capital.
Judging by the couple of incomplete stories and notes about "no author's title" "from the diary of the author" "unlike several others in this volume, the author probably considered publishing this story" make me think it's aimed at people more familiar with Kafka. Enjoyable, but I'd probably have been better off getting a hold of The Trial first.
Comes through as a piece before its times, when there is rapid speculation about China and its strong sense of identity. Such lucid profundity in a few pages, with an exact idea of one's place in the order of things. Leaves much to the known beyond one's grasp, but captures one's limitations with fluid ease.
A collection of less-well-known short stories and musings, some interesting and insightful, some failed to capture my attention. Overally I feel like every sentence he wrote was a metaphor that I failed to grasp or sort into his life (which I know next to nothing about). Regardless I quite enjoyed this short book.
The drawing on this book was done by Kafka himself! What a great drawing! So full of angst!I may never really finish this book, it's like trying to get to the Castle. My favorite Kafka stories are when he writes from a small animal’s perspective: the burrowing creature, the dog, the cockroach.Flannery O’Connor said she could never finish Kafka either so I'm in good company.
Annual winter kafkaesque porn. I could never read Kafka except in winter. Maybe it's connected with his novel The Castle, but I reckon there's more to it. There's a strange melancholy mood pervading every story.
"إن الطبيعة الإنسانية، المتغيره جوهرياً وغير المستـقرة كالغبار تماما،ً لا يمكنها أن تحتمل الكبح ، فإن ألزمت نفسها فإنها سرعان ما تبدأ في تمزيق وثاقها بجنون بل وتمزق كل شئ إرباً، السور والوثاق وحتى ذاتها."
ثالث كتاب أقرأه لكافكا,,لم أحبه كثيرًا فيه الكثير من الهلوسات والكلام الملخبط,,نصوص كثيرة لم أرغب بأن أكملها بسبب الضياع الموجود فيها ولكن البعض الآخر كان رائعًا ويجسد أسلوب كافكا القصصي الذي أعتدت عليه..
Very interesting and absorbing, but not as crazy and disturbing as I had anticipated. Or perhaps I am just more insane than Kafka was. In any case, there are some brilliant insights and engrossing short stories in this volume. In particular 'The Bridge' and 'The Vulture' are good.
I think I liked the last story (The Burrow) best.
It was ok.
ليس شرطا أن تبدو الأشياء العميقة معقدة .
