https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401105.Dead_Man_s_Ransom
The Cadfael series has a well established reputation of being high quality historical mysteries.
They do fall into two camps- the narrative dominated by the mystery, and the book that progresses the historical events that are effecting England at that time.
This book in the series is part of the latter.
Much of the story revolves around the civil war and the way the lords of the land manipulated the unrest to their own advantage.
Chivalry plays a very important part in the storyline – something that is easily forgotten in our contemporary times.The murder is really the side plot that drives the narrative.
The Shrewsbury men bring home dire news--King Stephen taken prisoner by the Empress's men; Gilbert Prestcote, their sheriff, taken by Welsh marauders who had joined in the fight for the possibility of plunder.The Welsh band, still looking for adventure and loot, continue raiding--this time closer to Shrewsbury.
They attack the convent of Benedictine nuns at Godric's Ford, and come away empty handed, as well as losing one of their own--a well-placed young man, Elis ap Cynan, now held prisoner by undersheriff Hugh Beringar.So off goes Cadfael, with his abbot's blessing, on this mission for Hugh--arrange a swap of Elis for Gilbert Prestcote.
Another excellent story in the Chronicles of Brother Cadfael series.
This time it is 1141 and Sheriff Gilbert Prestcote along with his deputy sheriff, Hugh Beringar, have been fighting to keep the peace when the civil war comes too close to Shrewsbury.
Serious problems arise when murder happens in the infirmary and Cadfael has to collect the evidence to solve the murder.Even though this is book number nine in the series you can easily begin reading here to try it out.
Characters are very well developed and established and it is always a real pleasure to find myself back in the abbey catching up on the lives of the continuing characters in the series.
[2015--this seems to have been corrected]Up until the middle of this book in the series, the Sheriff of Shropshire is Gilbert Prestcote.
People are still reluctant to support her, at least partly because she's so intolerant of halfhearted support.In Shropshire, however, the locals are more concerned about the injury and capture of Gilbert Prestcote.
Owain Gwynedd is heartily praised in this whole series, as an intelligent, wise, and foresighted man.But there are other problems, involving fosterage and its relationships, child betrothal, and the fact that Elis is a sucker for a tall, pale girl with spun-sugar hair...who happens to be Gilbert Prestcote's daughter.
Yet another great tale of love, murder, and a troubled country in the grips of civil war -- Cadfael is as understanding and clear-sighted as always, a paragon of what it should mean to be a "good Christian". The side characters are vivid and their plights powerful; I'll never tire of Peters' flawless skill of evoking a time long past with stunning clarity and modern presence. History, mystery, and romance in a perfect blend -- what more could a girl want?
Non mi ha fatto impazzire 😔; come per gli altri libri con Fratello Cadfael, il giallo medievale c’è, la storia d’amore c’è, ma nell’insieme è una storia un po’ piatta senza colpi di scena, anche i modi in cui il monaco conduce le indagini sono un po’ lenti... ma ormai ha sessant’anni. Diciamo che la sinossi di copertina mi ha un po’ fuorviato, la guerra tra re e regina c’è ma è giusto accennata; è comunque un libro che si legge scorrevolmente e soprattutto belle le descrizioni dei luoghi.
"On that day, they had offered prayers not for the victory of one party or the defeat of the other, but for better counsel, for reconciliation, for the sparing of blood-letting and the respect of life between men of the same country."In Dead Man's Ransom, the intrigue of the civil war crashes to new heights.
"Men drunk with power and ambition do not ground their weapons." Death has come in earnest to the gates of Shrewsbury.Although the shire's sheriff has been captured by Welsh mercenaries, the nuns of a Benedictine Abbey have captured a suitable exchange.
Another entertaining installment in the Cadfael canon.
This is the first one chronologically that was never made into a TV episode.
Perhaps because it has Cadfael in Wales for a good part of it and the ensemble cast that they assembled for the TV series would have had precious little to do.
The episode is a good one though.
There are actually two sets of star-crossed lovers and a Welsh border incursion along with the re-appearance of Avice of Thornbury from Leper of Saint Giles now as a Benedictine sister.
I found this one of the series very convincing and engaging. The interest lay in the motivations of the characters - their loyalties, responses and obligations. Peters manages to draw the reader into another time and place, to connect us to the context. The story unfolds with ease. It mattered not that I could guess how the mystery might unfold. I was part of the world and wanted to know how each character would fare, where the logic of their world would take them within the framework of historical fact.
When Sheriff Prescote is taken captive in battle, his deputy, Hugh Beringar, seeks to exchange a young Welsh prisoner for him. The deal is made, and the injured sheriff is brought home, only to fall prey to murder. The resolution is complicated by a love quadrangle and a bromance. I didn't love this as much as the earlier books in the series, but it's still a pretty good read. I'd have given it 4.5 stars, but I knew who the murderer was as soon as the murderer knew it.
Cadfael series: excellent historical fiction. Ellis Peters draws the reader into the twelfth century with modern story telling but holds us there with a richness of detail which evokes a time and place which might as well be fictional. Though the foreground of each chronicle is a murder mystery, behind it a nation and a culture are woven in a wondrous tapestry.Dead Man's Ransom: Honor and duty clash with unrequited love and racial animosity.
The civil war has flared up again and once again comes close to home for the population of Shrewsbury. When an exchange of prisoners of war leads to coldblooded murder, the prime suspect, a young man from Wales, appeals to Brother Cadfael for help. As always, an entertaining historical mystery read.
Another really solid book in this series. I figured out pretty early on who was in love with whom, and I also figured out the murderer (and was not happy about it!) but it all worked out in the end, whew, nicely though not so neatly. Yay!
Read in April 2010. Re-read in July 2016.
I love Brother Cadfael mysteries but this one dragged and the murderer was kinda obvious.
Comfortable re-read of an old favourite.
Another book in the Chronicles of Brother Cadfael--the ninth one I believe.
Young and rash, Elis against advice joins in the fighting and raiding that has been occurring in England even though he is Welsh.
Seems like a simple solution that will bring great benefit to the Welsh Prince who wants no part of England's fighting and the return of a highly important man to Shrewsbury.
Unfortunately, the sheriff is gravely ill and has been brought to the abbey in hopes the brothers can nurse him back to health.
All the politics and formal exchanges are to no avail because within hours of reaching the abbey, the sheriff is murdered.
Another Cadfael mystery with some vividly drawn supporting characters, true love at first sight (I begin to wonder if Peters knows how to write any other kind), and the interaction of Welsh and English law and custom.Again, Peters does a fine job of depicting the ravages of civil war on the 12th C Shrewsbury population.
The tensions along Shropshire's border--both the English border with Chester and the Welsh border with Powys--give this particular story a great deal of military and political tension.
In this case, the mystery is secondary to the larger political and military story.
Its function is to open certain political developments in Shropshire and put Cadfael in position to involve himself in the goings-on.
In particular, I liked the dynamic between Cadfael and Hugh, who are both friends AND not entirely of the same mind.
It was very clearly not mean to be read as homosexual, but...
Frodo and Sam don't take it anywhere near that level.I've seen others complain that Peters has predictable mysteries without enough twists, and while it's true that the murderers don't really come as a surprise, I for one, appreciate the way she treats her audience: there's rarely a grand denouement because she's been giving you clues and she respects you enough to figure that you're solving the case at the same rate as Cadfael.
You know who the culprit is before the reveal, but she means you to.
Like, to mean its opposite, "expect".
The beloved sheriff of Shropshire, Gilbert Prestcote, is in ill-health after being taken prisoner by Welshmen allied with Empress Maud.
Brother Cadfael has to work with minimal clues to solve this mystery.A secondary plotline involves Elis falling in love with Melicent Prestcote while he is held at Shrewsbury Castle.
He is betrothed to Cristina, but she is in love with his foster-brother Eliud.
It gives you a good idea of how the English civil war between King Stephen and Empress Maud affected this border town.
Even though a major battle wasn't covered in this book, you still see how the rest of the country deals with war.
Again a lovely time with Brother Cadfael and Hugh Beringar.
They actually find themselves a bit at loggerheads in this, but it's nothing that Sister Magdalen (so happy to see her again!) and Cadfael's young-lovers-of-the-month can't sort out while Cadfael gladly turns a blind eye.
I was rather aggrieved with these young lovers (there are actually two sets of them this time!).
Normally I don't mind them but Melicent struck me as light-minded what with her stupid accusation and then her equally stupid charge (unarmed and untrained) into combat when her repudiated lover might have fallen in combat.
Interestingly enough, I took a break from reading Ken Follet's mediaeval epic "The Pillars of the Earth", to read this short mystery and both books revolve around the same events of the English war between Empress Maud and King Stephen.
There were a lot of references to the same historical figures, so this tale was a bit richer for me.While I liked this story well enough, I find that the Brother Cadfael books are more historical epics with a side-order of mystery.
I'm eking them out so they last a long time.
This one has a bit more about the civil war going on in England in the 12th century: there is a battle that the Sheriff goes off to fight in, but he is taken prisoner, wounded.
The deputy sheriff and others in Shrewsbury come up with a plan to exchange their sheriff for a young man taken in a related skirmish.
As usual there's a murder to solve and a love story that works out all right in the end, and around all those there are warm characters and a great evocation of time and place.
I tried the first Brother Cadfael novel way back in the early '90s, when I first came out to California for my master's. I don't remember much of it beyond the fact that I was disappointed.A few months ago, I picked up this volume at a library used-book sale for $0.25, hoping for a better experience.For me, the novel's greatest weakness is that it's boring. The writing is pedestrian and the characters are uninteresting, and there's not much of a mystery. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone.
Deliciously twisted plot. A tale that encompasses history's unrest and battles. This involves not only Cadfael's adopted home but his birth homeland enabling him to help unravel the mysterious murder of a prisoner of war after he was faithfully and carefully brought home by his captors. This story has deep undercurrents involving the characters that conclude in an looked for culprit and resolution!
During a civil war, Shrewbury finds itself caught between a king, an empress, and several hundred loot minded Welshmen ready to cross the border at a moments notice. Then the king and the sheriff are both taken and the Welsh pick their moment. Brother Cadfael must help the deputy sheriff win the day and find the murderer.
L'intrigue commence plutôt bien, les personnages sont un peu plus variés que d'habitude, mais on retombe assez vite dans les clichés des romans de Cadfael : une histoire d'amour impossible, un dénouement heureux... bref ce n'est pas mauvais, mais il ne faut pas avoir lu de Cadfael trop récemment pour ne pas avoir l'impression de relire encore et encore la même histoire...
Ach, tak tohle byla těžká romantika! Asi jsem to momentálně potřebovala (jako léčbu po dočtení 1984), protože se mi to moc líbilo. Samotná vražda je tu spíš na vedlejší koleji a vlastně ani Cadfael moc nezasahuje do příběhu, který rozehrávají ostatní postavy. Tohle je taková fajn "ženská detektivka" v tom dobrém slova smyslu.
Fairly predictable and more of the same. Definitely need a break from the series as I found my attention often focusing elsewhere. However these stories are well written and always an enjoyable quick read. Cadfael has that subtle strength people naturally trust and of course a tremendously rich vocabulary.
Good book if you are looking for a light mystery that ends happily, set in 12th century England at the Welsh border. I like the historical context. I like the main character, Brother Cadfael and his co-investigator, the sheriff, Hugh Beringar. A nice, pleasant little mystery with no great trauma or strife where the guy always seems to get the girl in the end.
