https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19670.Debt_of_Honor
5.5 to 6.0 stars. This is my favorite Tom Clancy book. I don't want to give away any spoilers but the scope of the plot and the multi-pronged attack on the U.S. was amazing. Add to that the superb way in which the good guys fight back and an "over the top" ending and you have a memorable piece of fiction by one of the masters of the genre.
The last of the Clancy/Ryan books I liked and I'm very happy I put that 4-star rating for it there way before writing this review. Because trying to remember it now, it kind of blends, not surprisingly, with Executive Orders - the first one I really disliked. My gut tells me 4 stars is probably way generous, but I'll stand by them I guess. I will, however, say that if you ask me, this is as far as you should venture...
A pretty solid book.
It's got a lot of good stuff, and it's reminiscent of the earlier works.It's probably the most colorful of all Tom's works, including a Pearl Harbor like event, B-2 bombers, nukes, why not to draw your pistol from an armpit holster, lasers, Chavez and Clark are back, we get a new fast-track promoted president (hint hint), and a whole bunch more.
Or the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Presidency.
Or something.Clancy also drew a lot of flak for "inspiring" the terror attacks of 2001, because something rather similar to the 9/11 events happens in this book.
If you've gotten this far in the Jack Ryan series, Debt of Honor will be an easy and enjoyable read for you.The problem is the plot.
The gymnastics that Clancy needs to go through to set up a half-way plausible explanation for a war between the United States and Japan--not to mention a reason why Japan has half a chance against a country with a larger military, better military technology, and a larger population and economy--are gargantuan.And then there is the politics of the book; Clancy's personal beliefs about the need for a strong and independent military capable of global domination increasingly assert themselves.
Finally, there is the problem of the Ryan character, who in this book is vaulted from a skilled technocrat to...
In my opinion, this is clearly where the Jack Ryan series jumps the shark.
OK, maybe two stars looks harsh, but the book was OK and that is the best I can say about it.The spy plot thread, with underground operatives in Japan was actually pretty good. I liked the air war thread. But the long, long, LOOONG, parts about financial double dealing left me cold.I will say this, it had a slam-bang ending that caught me by surprise.
(Through a book club in case you were wondering.
I was too lazy to send it back) After reading this, I had to go back and get all of his previous books.
Great imagination, wonderful characters.
Having gone back and read the books before this, you get a real sense of what drives Clark on, while the relationship between Clark and Chavez is almost father to son, rather than two soldiers working together, one outranking the other.
A relationship that changes further into the series.......particularly in my favourite book of his...............Rainbow Six. Great book, fab read.
These parts greatly contrasted with the plot lines (of which there were several) so there was a lot of jumping back and forth from story to military stuff.
Also, some of the plots lines came and went without me realizing they were over or that they were coming back.
There is one major storyline (view spoiler)[ about the financial crash  (hide spoiler)] that was suddenly over about halfway through the book.
Another one (view spoiler)[vice president storyline (hide spoiler)] was a major part early on in the book but then disappeared until the very end until it came back in a single paragraph.

Throughout the book, I saw multiple parts where the author, Tom Clancy could have just ended the book, but he kept going on and on.
Prior to reading this book, I had read the series, Net Force, which is also by Tom Clancy.
I thought this book would be almost like it in terms of length.
Alas, I was wrong.I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys LONG books or anyone who likes Tom Clancy or the Jack Ryan series in general.
A lot of parts in the book seemed to drag because Clancy would get into long and lengthy descriptions but the plot really held my interest.
What I didn't see coming was the ending, I won't say what happens for those of you who like Tom Clancy and haven't read Debt of Honor yet, but I'll just say this, you'll never see it coming!I'm guessing that the next book in the series, Executive Orders will pick right up where this book ended.
I was gonna read it next but after how lengthy and descriptive Debt of Honor was, I'll have to wind down a bit, HAHA!
This is a general complaint I've had with Clancy, but he usually overcame it with good plot, thrills, action, etc.
As one reads through the first 400 pages (the story starts to move along after that), the general plot of the story and the important details are pretty clear.
Dragging the reader through 400 pages of bloated story and description is just unnecessary.
I'm one novel away from having read all of Clancy's works prior to the year 2000, and some of them are very good yarns (Without Remorse is one of my all-time favorite books).
One of the most intense Tom Clancy novels I've read so far. An extremely intricate collection of plots are expertly tied together, and brought not to a satisfying conclusion, but rather a stunning end that picks up with the next book, 'Executive Orders'. My only criticism comes from personal preference: the details regarding global finance were extremely difficult to follow, and became quickly tedious. These can, however, be skimmed in order to get the gist that is necessary to continue following the rest of the storyline with ease.
Like any Tom Clancy novel, it started off a bit slow, but I have to say it ended with a huge cliff hanger. I'm definitely going to want to get the next novel soon!
Absolutely great! If you love Clancy, you'll love this one too.
'Debt of Honor' is a novel written by a man who knows history is passing him by, and who is absolutely terrified of it.In a lot of ways, this seems like the kind of thing Sean Hannity would keep by his bedside for cold, lonely nights--Jack Ryan is a man's man, who served in the Marines, made a ton of money on Wall Street, and never met a foreign policy problem he couldn't solve with a Tomahawk cruise missile.
I don't usually read espionage novels but once I started reading Tom Clancy's "Debt of Honor" I felt ready for the challenge.
Paced to be read slowly, so as to absorb all of the information Clancy packed into his pages, I enjoyed the parts about Japan the most.
At 766 pages "Debt of Honor" took me a little bit longer to read and get into than most books do, but after finishing it, I felt I'd spent a significant amount of quality leisure time with an excellent story created by a great American author.
Together with the usual supporting cast from the previous novels, Jack is able to restore the status-quo-ante by the end of the book, that is up to the surprise finish which leaves Jack 'in charge.'My favorite scene is the surprize reunion between John Clark and "Portagee", a retired Chief Bosun's Mate who had once upon a time attended John's funeral - at the end of John's 'previous life' as a renegade vigilante in the novel "Without Remorse".I also enjoyed having Captain Nick Mancuso get the opportunity to salvage his career as a sub driver aboard a down-graded 'boomer' that is to be pressed into service as a makeshift 'attack' submarine/aircraft carrier.
Our main character, Jack Ryan, has been called in as the National Security Advisor and must deal with all the problems that take place over the course of the book.
Ryan was a pretty boring character (at least for me, though this is the only Jack Ryan book I've read)and though he always knew what to do, he really had to flaws and was pretty flat.
The first of a mini trilogy within the Ryanverse, this book sets of a chain of events that culminate in the end of "The Bear and the Dragon".
Poorer than its sequel "Executive Orders" but better than "The Bear and the Dragon", it details a war between Japan and the United States, triggered by a revengefull political mastermind.
I'll cut straight to it: a lot of the events leading up to the war are, to say the least, highly unlikely, and without a doubt written with American patriotism as the driving factor.
This was by far my most favorite of the Jack Ryan series! Uniquely, as I was enjoying the whole thing, I thought to myself that one would be hard pressed to enjoy it as much without the entire backstory of all the collective other Jack Ryan books, up to that point.So, in light of all the others, this one stands on the mountaintop as a shining crown!
With Clancy, I usually have to skip through the boring parts, but the interesting stuff more than makes up for it. At the end of this novel, (view spoiler)[Jack Ryan (hide spoiler)] becomes President of the United States.
p406: a few people, none closer than half a block away, would remember the vehicle, a small white delivery truck that had been big enough to contain half a ton of amfo, an explosive mixture composed of nitrogen-based fertilizer and diesel fuel.
Too many characters, too much tech, too convoluted, too contrived. This isn't his best book. A failed epic.
Voor de tweede keer gelezen 2017Even geen zin om een review te schrijven. Sorry
Mi calificativo es trepidante ... Aunque los acontecimientos lo hayan recordado ... Pero he disfrutado de su lectura
Highly recommended...my usual for this author! Glad to say this segment of the Jack Ryan series holds up. Although it has a cliffhanger ending, it does not disappoint.
900 pages of waffle, very disappointing.
But it did not take long into the text to get back to this Tom Clancy feelgood zone, this mixture of military jargon, meticulous technical description of almost scifi like hardware ansd all that combined with a special brand of corny but somewhat loveable and identifiable characters suffering through all the ups and downs of a crisis, this time of worldwide proportions.The plot is well constructed even if it stretches a bit the lengths and widths of most people's imagination respectively suspension of disbelief with a difficult series of interconnected assumptions, xenophobical ideologies and a great big dollop of overdramatic backwardedness in the alleged tight knit group of leading industrial company bosses or "Zaibatsu" that decide (not too subtly edged onwards by the biggest and most backwardy of them, a villain called Yamata) its time for Japan to forget all they've learned since world war two and in the panic after a tragic car accident leads to massive economic losses in their american interests and therefore a lethal thread to the japanese industry and wellfare, to try again to conquer their own natural wealth as they clearly deserve as the worlds best and most civilised nation.
Debt of Honor is a lengthy 990 page book written by Tom Clancy and published by Berkley Books. Its title refers to the debt of honour Mr. Yamata owed his family after they died escaping US capture in World War 2. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and give it a rating of 3.7/4.0 stars. This novel would appeal to an audience of above average to high reading and literacy abilities, and to people who don’t mind pushing through almost 1000 pages. If you match the mentioned criteria, and you enjoy actio
Debt of Honor is a lengthy 990 page book written by Tom Clancy and published by Berkley Books.
This novel would appeal to an audience of above average to high reading and literacy abilities, and to people who don’t mind pushing through almost 1000 pages.
If you match the mentioned criteria, and you enjoy action/military novels, then I recommend this book for you!Tom Clancy put his fantastic storytelling experience to work, and made this fantastic novel to add to his list of top-selling ones.
I really enjoy how descriptive Clancy is when talking about absolutely everything.
It is the only reason the book is not 4/4.Overall, Debt of Honor is a great read.
At 1008 pages, Tom Clancy's thriller was a satisfying book to complete.
But this one takes the cake: I would rather not read about all the ways a criminal businessman sets up American economy for a fall while his rises.
For a while, many thought that Clancy had to submit his books to the FBI before they were published, but I have not found any concrete evidence that this is true.
After his death, the FBI released Clancy's file that showed he was sought after as a private consultant, which you can read more about here.In any case, if you're looking for a thriller, any novel by Tom Clancy is definitely my recommendation.
