https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7778981-halo
What the fuck is that.I feel like this book has some kind of vendetta against punctuation.
Case in point:"I knew that if I wanted to keep my entire world from falling apart, I would have to keep Xavier." (217)"Entrusted to look after me by Gabriel and Ivy" (247)"He was the one who reminded me to drink plenty of water and the one who deflected questions about my family from curious classmates.
Hm, I wonder!But all of this is just window dressing for my favorite quote of the entire book: "For this evening at least, feminist philosophy had been abandoned, and the girls, like fairy-tale princesses, let themselves be lead up the flight of steps into the foyer."I just love this.
WHERE DO I EVEN BEGIN???  This has to be one of the WORST books ever written. Everything in this book annoyed me. It was terrible in every way: badly thought-out plot, hypocritically religious, with really (and I mean really) shallow characters. Did I mention it is was a hypocritical book? Can I emphasis on hypocritical? I'm not even a Catholic! But this book, it just... ARGGHHH!!!It is so frustrating, I cannot describe it in words. To be honest, it was the Catholic's version of Twilight. I fel
I felt like the author copy and pasted Twilight, than changed everyone's name.Cheesy love, stupid damsel in distress, unrealistic boyfriend, and an awkward projection of God(?) and purgatory/heaven/hell(?)Its gets on my nerves that the author started writing this book with a strange and rigidly religious sense and at the same time be so - SO narrow minded about everything.
I felt like the book had a double meaning for white supremacy.I see white people It was a dry, hard-to-read, un-refreshing, love story mixed in with hypocritical religious views.The only redeeming quality of this book was the front of it.
Reading this book was like watching Sinbad or Atlantis or any other one of those rubbish Disney movies that wanted to be like their original Princess classics but also new and fresh and imaginative.It's lame.
This book is CLEARLY geared toward the kind of teenage girls who WANT to be helpless and taken care of and protected and cherished.
Sure the book pretty much sucks beyond all reckoning but I like to think I'm adult enough to give her a pat on the head, tell her to go play with the other kids while I talk to the adults.But that doesn't mean I want to spend money on this shit...
If an angel came down from heaven whose name was Bert and said "do not be afraid" as a big ball of light, I'd probably snigger and then one of my younger cousins would think it's a huge firefly and trap it in a jar.
Sadly, that's not what happened because, according to Adornetto, that would make Bethany seem too strong and girls aren't able to do anything, not even think, without a big, capable guy like Xavier by her side!
It's the story of Bethany, an angel sent to the most distressed areas of the world to destroy demons, and her sidekick Xavier, a young would-be priest who follows in her wake spreading the word of the Lord and doing good wherever he can.
Multiple times, Adornetto mentions other regions of the world with greater troubles than Venus Cove, but she always brushes it off by saying that other angels are there - as if that meant it was okay for Bethany to be living the high life, slacking on her community service, and putting Xavier higher on her list of priorities than Heaven itself!
dnf @ like, 90 something %i want to die more than i've ever wanted to die before.
Given some practice in character and plot development, experience with real relationships, and some life perspective, it's possible this 18-year-old author might produce an interesting book at some point. As it stands, however, it's unreasonable to expect the average teenager to tackle such weighty subjects as love and evil and faith and redemption with any convincing measure of depth or insight.
In her article, she talks about PTSD, how difficult it was, how she used violent sex to ease the worst of it, and how afterwards she got up, went to crisis zones to do her job, reporting cases of sexual abuse on a daily basis.She's my new personal hero.I'm brining this up because, with women like this in the world, I think God's servants can do better than knit mittens and walk the neighbor's dog.
Bethany being perfect means that she will not change, nor will she see the need to adapt to Xavier.
Seriously.)The book sets us up with rather grand stakes, in that God has deemed this one little town in the US to be in need of the counsel of an archangel, a seraph and a regular angel named Bethany.
We're supposed to like Xavier for his 'black and white' view on the world, or the fact that he thinks Bethany is too weak to carry her own damn school books.
My GOD, how could anyone possibly finish this piece of crap? x_x I gave up after several chapters because it was just so bad. Not even the funny kind of bad. Just plain bad. It took a while for my brain cells to heal fully.I'll continue this book once giant unicorns poop out chocolate-flavored rainbows from the sky while wearing tutus and singing "Born This Way".
[image error]
Please God, tell me your angels aren't like this!You know how a song plays through your head when you read a book, and the lyrics remind you of the story?
What's inside is ugly.The message I got from this book was: be a good Christian, go to church every Sunday, and if you’re different in any way, you can’t express it; you're evil if you do so.
The angels aren't characters in the love story, but they bring the couple together.
What the fuck would she do if she was shoved in the middle of a war zone instead of VENUS COVE where a few people have died of illness and some chick had a car crash.Xavier was an overprotective, boring, popular guy with ALMOND shaped eyes and WALNUT hair (anyone else thinking that the author likes nuts?) who did nothing but want to hang around Bethany and protect her.
If my boyfriend wanted me to spend every waking moment together, and if we got to the point that we felt like we would rather die than be without eachother for an hour, then I think we'd have a problem.
It's only in the last 100 pages or so that something actually happens, and all your action that was missing so badly in the beginning and middle pops up.
Another thing that got me going really good and I couldn't help but scoff, laugh, and every ridiculing adjective in the book, was that they *glowed* in the dark.
He was such a whipped puppy throughout this whole book.And after reading this article she wrote, I couldn't help but have a more nasty flavor in my mouth.
Yep, that was me while reading this book. Sad, no?Oh, and before I forget:Dear Alexandra Adornetto,
Sorry if that offends anyone, but it’s my opinion and I stand by it.I’m also quite sad that a cover as pretty and interesting as this one hides away a fluffy Three Musketeers-esque story about NOTHING.Alexandra Adornetto’s Brain Killer is supposed to be a tale about Bethany the angel and her siblings, Gabriel and Ivy. They embark on a HOLY JOURNEY to go and save Venus Cove from some Agents of Darkness or something.
Disappointment was hiding behind that pretty cover.
I couldn't finish Halo.
I usually love stories about angels and the cover is beautiful (I'm a bit of a cover slut) but I found this book boring, so in the end I gave up.
There has been so many angel books out recently that I was looking for that something special and unfortunately this wasn't it for me.
I don't know if I gave it a fair chance reading only 100 pages so maybe one day I'll come back and try again when I have ran out of good books to read.
What makes it ten times worse is that Bethany is an angel, a servant of “Our Father” (as God is referred to in this book), sent on a mission to help guide humanity back to the goodness of the world, and faith … and yet she’s distracted by a teenage boy.
Angels are warriors, not whiny daffodils.And instead of focusing on the mission at hand, Bethany spends her time thinking about Xavier or pondering up disgusting scenarios where he comes to her like a knight to a distressed damsel in some lofty castle bower.
We’ve had one book thrown against a wall and another book so awful I couldn’t help but wonder if it was part of some Richard Dawkins style orchestrated plot to prove how awful religion is (not that any of these terrible books are in any way connected to religion beyond bastardising some of the most interesting elements of Christian mythology, but I digress.) I never swore to not review another angel orientated YA book again but I’ve remained weary and suspicious of others that have come my way and after reading the synopsis of this book as well two articles by the author herself explaining her abstinence (this liberal feminist has a deep opposition to abstinence only education and the deep underlying messages it sends to girls about their sexuality, more of which you’ll undoubtedly hear later since it’s something I love to rant about.) and why Edward Cullen is the perfect man (do you even want me to go there?) The author Ms Adornetto published her first book when she was 13.
The bookshop I volunteer at gifted me a copy of this book, so I'm going to read it.For the lulz.(view spoiler)[Let me vomit on your 4+ rating, Halo.And let me vomit on all the 5 stars.And let me vomit all over preachy books with no logical sense or plot or likeable characters or even substance.LET ME VOMIT, I SAY!Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It was interesting watching how the three angels; Bethany, Gabriel and Ivy would adapt to earth and cope with their human forms, especially for Bethany, as it was her first time on earth.
Interesting enough but then in typical fashion Halo took the path a lot of angel books seem to follow; angel (Beth) falls in love with a human (Xavier) and this in Beth’s world is hugely frowned upon.
By the time Gabriel and Ivy discovered Bethany’s secret not much had been happening in the story, the pace was really slow.
I, too, asked this question, and this review is my answer.Halo follows Bethany, a young angel sent to earth with her older siblings, Gabriel and Ivy, to fight the Agents of Darkness in Venus Cove, a small costal town in Georgia.
This makes their relationship come across as very shallow, especially considering that Bethany spends an exorbitant amount of time gushing about Xavier's looks and his smell, oddly enough.As for the secondary characters, none of them are particularly compelling.
He could, however, have cat-like green eyes.All of the above make this a very painful read, but I was most perturbed by the disturbing messages present throughout the novel, especially those regarding women.
Some books are managing to pull it off this well-worn story line, and other's aren't, it's up for you to decideHalo spent the first 300+ pages trying to do this.
After all, mortals don't know everything.I've got nothing against Catholics.
By the time we got past the issue I addressed in #1 & #2 we FINALLY reached the conflict in the book.
Then I would have had something pulling me along besides the romance.Oh, and just to let you know, the conflict in this story is extremely satanic.
This book has got to be the most self-indulgent, overworked drivel I've read in a long time.
There is no reason for this book to be almost 500 pages long.
Enough!"Finishing this book was tortuous...the Beyonce quote on the opening page should have been the first clue.Cliche, cliche, cliche.
From the characters to the plot to even the names, this book is one big cliche.
Xavier is painfully perfect, as Adornetto reminds us every few pages.
Can you get any more cliche?Please, editor, reign in this self-indulgent writing and make Adornetto actually develop a plot besides Bethany and Xavier's obsessive love (and limit it to 300 pages).
Or maybe Adornetto is indeed that bad of a writer.The main character, Bethany Church, is an irritating Mary Sue. Sure, she's an angel from above, it was obvious that her appearance was going to be .
Anyway, she was a pathetic excuse of an heroine: She freaks over nothing, she's the perfect definition of "too dumb to live", she's bland, and pretty much does nothing to save the world despite being an angel.
I have no idea.And besides, most of the things that Bethany did in this book were very "non-angel" (lying, thinking about fornicating her boyfriend).
A new mysterious student comes to town and very bad things happen when he is around and there is prom…and a huge major confrontation…and that is all that I can share…seriously…or you will know more than you should before you read the book.I found this book to be fascinating.
The entire premise of angels…and major ones at that coming to live and work in this lovely seaside town was intriguing.
And I learned that I don’t want my own personal guardian angel to be spread too thin…so I am going to try to be a less demanding person for him…or her.
Everything I'm reading nowIs filled with stupid crapAnd it was the same with HaloI fell for Utter-shitto's trapEverything that you said was trueThis book was such a waste of timeAfter getting through with HaloI want to commit a crimeReading Halo.
Why?Lack of EffortAs anyone who has read this book will notice, Alexandra Utter-shitto did not even attempt to try.
We readers are told that the Agents of Darkness(view spoiler)[ Really, Utter-shitto?
One hundred pages in and Utter-shitto still doesn't delve any deeper.
Hey, Utter-shitto, do you know why this is so?
But honestly, I don't blame Utter-shitto.
Halo was a fascinating book to read.
I found it interesting how she was fascinated with human life and wanted to experience life as an ordinary teenage girl.
She falls in love and I think her relationship with Xavier was well developed and very pure.
Gabriel and Ivy's characters weren't as well developed but the author gave hints that there was something else there.
Overall this was a very sweet story, a good introductory book to the series.I highly recommend it.
Its a refreshing, sweet book.
I can't wait to read the next books of the series.
*Warning: review contains profanity and spoilers.*This book deserves no stars.When I read the first thirty percent, I thought I could make it. I thought I could get through this without permanent brain damage. Oh no, I was wrong. Bethany Church Now, let's start off with our favorite protagonist, Bethany!Do you know how long I laughed when I when I first learned Bethany's last name?Five minutes. That's how funny I found it.I was like," An angel whose last name is Church? That's fucking hilarious!
I'd get in a car crash and she'd be too busy lusting and whining.Case 7:"I could claim no credit for these improvements; I'd been far too preoccupied with fitting in and getting to know Xavier to have given much thought to anything else."Oh, so you finally realize you're useless, huh?
I didn't go to school, and Ivy and Gabriel didn't try to make me."You are a fucking angel on a mission.
Also: "Ivy looked so domestic in her apron that both [Xavier and I] had to smile."Fuck that quote.Bethany's cardboard cutout friendsHer friends are all proooommmm, guuuuuuuuys, teeeaaccheers.
Wenn Bethany kein Bella-Klon wäre, wenn Xavier nicht so ein langweiliger engelhafter Cookie-Cutter wäre, dann würde Liebe Interesse haben, wenn nur Bethany, Ivy und Gabriel mehr Action auf ihrer Mission hätten, die die Welt rettet, wenn es nur interessanter wäre Charaktere in Venus Cove statt hübscher, attraktiver (Ich mache mir keine Sorgen, es gibt keine fugly Leute in dieser kleinen Stadt [Stepford]), wenn nur einige Schießhandlung im Roman war; warte das ist ein anderer HALO .....
Ifs, Ifs, so viele wenns das hätte so einen tollen Roman gemacht.
Adornetto hat Talent, braucht aber einen GROSSEN Editor, um das Talent in etwas weniger kommerzielles und triviales herauszubringen.
