https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6752378-city-of-fallen-angels
I actually really liked the original series.Let me explain - While knowing nothing of Clare's plagiarism or the controversy surrounding the books, the need for something similar to Buffy overwhelmed me, leading to the discovery of the urban fantasy genre.
I liked Jace in the original books.
So I'll leave you with this:Even if I don't particularly like a book, I can usually find something good about having spent my time on it.
What should you do?Answer: (view spoiler)[LET THEM BOTH DROWN AND READ A DIFFERENT BOOK!!

As human society evolves, so do its methods of tortureLet me start off this review with a small confession. I liked The Mortal Instruments. Yes, it was cheesy, it was derivative, and it was an embarrassment to good literature everywhere, but it gave me a couple of afternoons’ worth of guilty pleasure, and I was satisfied. I enjoyed the fast-paced action and the triumph of true love, and I was happy to leave Jace and Clary to enjoy the fruits of their labour in happily-ever-after land. But then.
In addition to her derivation-of-a-derivative series (The Infernal Devices), she decided to revive Jace and Clary from their life of teenage bliss and torture them — and her readers — all over again.Unfortunately, she forgot some key elements in her rush to milk the cash cow.
*embarrassed silence* Umm, actually, that’s not how it goes.What actually happens is that Jace, because of this nightmare, decides that he will distance himself from Clary, whinge about their relationship endlessly, run away every time he so much as spots her in the distance, and mope miserably.
I can’t wait to see though...It’s odd, when the last book ended, if anyone had asked me, I’d have been one of the few people who actually said they wanted Maia to be with Simon, but after this book it’s plain to see that Izzy is the one that for him!
There’s so much more to Izzy than we’ve seen and I think that Simon may actually break through her defences and worm his way into her heart if she lets him!Oh, and it goes without saying that I want Maia and Jordan back together too.
Not only because I’ve postponed reading this book (in my defence, I really had to finish Clockwork Angel first so I can actually know who ‘Camille’ is) but also for another reason entirely.I didn’t care.
For instance, Clary & Jace, Simon & Maia & Isabelle (you go, man!), Jocelyn & Luke, Alec & Magnus, etc.
I have seen many being disappointed by this sequel but, still, don’t hesitate if you’re a fan of the series!Sources:- Clary & Jace- Luke & Jocelyn- Alec & Magnus- Simon & Isabelle
I took to the Shadowhunters, dug the storyline, and zipped through all of the books within two weeks with a grin on my face the entire time.So what on earth happened here?I was absolutely pumped when I found out that the awesome City Of Glass was not the end of the series.
Though it may look and sound exactly like a bitchy, over-the-top hissy fit in every single conceivable way, I can assure you, this is not a bitchy, over-the-top hissy fit.rant/What the fucking fuck happened here?
How does it make any sense to keep Magnus and Alec absent until chapter twelve even though they're two of the most popular characters in the whole series?
The plot of City of Fallen Angels by pennenickel---Official review (posted April 14, 2011):An Open Letter to Cassandra Clare:Dear Ms Clare,You're not Joss Whedon. You'll never be Joss Whedon and/or J.K. Rowling, so do yourself (and everyone else) a favor: stop trying. Yours Truly, Someone Who Deserves Their Money Back (A.K.A. Everyone Who Bought a Copy of City of Fallen Angels)P.S. What were you thinking?P.P.S. No seriously, what were you thinking when you decided to revive this series? Were yo
The plot of City of Fallen Angels by pennenickel---Official review (posted April 14, 2011):An Open Letter to Cassandra Clare:Dear Ms Clare,You're not Joss Whedon.
---The first thing I did upon finishing City of Fallen Angels: *Headdesk*I know what you're thinking.
You know, that pathetic moron who spends way too much time and energy believing in other people, even the ones who've done nothing but let me down in the past.
Unfortunately I don't think Ms Clare knows that about herself so she spends most of her time lifting ideas from other people's work, pasting it together and trying to pass it off as her own.
I liked it, but it wasn't as great as the earlier books, in my opinion.
The guys, in particular, were grating on my nerves.Simon is a huge focus in this book.
This time around, the girls aren't the only ones that want to get their hands on Simon.
Several new characters were introduced that kept things interesting.Like Simon, Jace spends a lot of time screwing up his personal life in this book.
This may not have been a total win for me, but I can appreciate that this book has paved the way for future events in the series.
Wow, there's four days of my life spent reading this book that I'll never get back.
And it normally doesn't take me that long, but I had to self motivate myself with promises of chocolate ("If you just read one more page..."), just to get through it.I usually don't give too many books only 1 star.
He loves me not."Simon:I really liked him in the orignial trilogy.
Instead, they are too busy ignoring each other, going to Simon's band gigs, and ripping each other's clothes off in an alley.
ALL.OVER.THE.DAMN.PLACE.A few days ago Clare posted a FAQ about the book and ending.
I love the green UK edition of this book.
I just love all the UK editions of these books!
He's like totally bad to the bone, but not in a dude way because he's still Simon the nerd we love.
I loved the new character, Kyle/Jordon.
He's cool and I like him a lot.
He has a past with one of the characters in the books.Clary and Jace are trying to make a go of it but there seems to be something wrong with Jace.
There are a lot of sweet things, cool things and evil things going on in the book.
That's a fun walk in the park!
more fun times will ensue!
1.) City of Bones ★★★2.) City of Ashes ★★3.) City of Glass ★★★1.) Clockwork Angel ★★★  “Why is it, little Shadowhunter, that your angels are so cold and without mercy? Why do they break that which will not obey them?”  Okay, I’m going to start this review off by saying that I am reading this for the first time in 2018. I know this is almost a decade old. And I know so many of my friends hold this series close to their hearts and have a lot of nostalgia for it. But friends, this was a damn mess.
So, I’m not going to say any major spoilers, but this review is going to talk about my thoughts and feelings, which will talk about some things that have already happened in the story, and themes that have happened in this book.
I know most of my friends love this character, but I honestly have disliked him from the start.
And, like with all my reviews of this series, I’m going to break down my thoughts briefly on each of the main characters: ➽ 
- I honestly feel like I just disliked him more and more each book.
#1 City of Bones ★★★★☆#2 City of Ashes ★★★☆☆#3 City of Glass ★★★★☆#4 City of Fallen Angels ★★★★★#5 City of Lost Souls ★★★★★#6 City of Heavenly Fire You know how, sometimes, you pick up a series that’s already popular, and everyone tells you, “Book ___ is the best!” and “Book ___ is the worst!”, and so you set up these weird sorts of expectations in your subconscious, and then you go into the one that everyone tells you is the “worst” and you’re like… “holy crap, this book is amazing”?No?
“City of Fallen Angels” is yet another book in the Young Adult category that lacks the “element of surprise.” The fact that this book was even written despite formerly having established that ‘The Mortal Instruments’ series to be a trilogy is evidence enough that Clare was tempted by her successes within the urban fantasy genre, and decided to continue.
Instead of putting faith in the audience’s imagination to keep her story alive, our beloved author took the task into her own hands and ironically, destroyed all that she forged with love.Clary and Jace start to have relationship problems.
*Raises Hand* How many of you put off reading City of Fallen Angels (TMI #4) because you couldn’t remember all of the messed up shite our favorite Shadowhunters and their friends have been dealing with?
‘Cohorts.’ It’s like saying ‘evildoers’ or ‘minions.’ ” ~ Camille Belcourt & Simon LewisI COULD TELL YOU… BUT I WON’T.#2.
Even Shadowhunters Get The Blues (And Other Reasons Co-Workers Shouldn’t Date).THE SITCH: Jace is acting weirder than usual and it’s making Clary question the status of their relationship.
3 Everybody hurts Stars  SpoilersThis one wasn't as good for me as the others. Jace and Clary had a ton of drama going on and where pretty much apart the whole book. Which I didn't like. They can't catch a break to save their lives. Simon was dating two girls at the same time and I didn't like that. Simon was sweet the last 3 books now in this book he does douchebag things like dating two girls. That is not like Simon! Alec and Magnus had a big fight over Magnus's past and the fact that he will
Which I didn't like.
They can't catch a break to save their lives.
Simon was dating two girls at the same time and I didn't like that.
Simon was sweet the last 3 books now in this book he does douchebag things like dating two girls.
That is not like Simon!
I really liked Izzy in this book.
I enjoyed her and Simon's time together would have enjoyed it more if he wasn't seeing someone else at the same time.
This book also kinda bored me at times.
I would catch myself skimming over details.
Everything was so detailed.
Or in most cases--get angry with each other, fight and then fall in love again.2.) I'm so sick of sulking Jace.
No--I'm so flippin' sick of Jace and Clary.
I mean, like, blood that wasn't there is there.6.) Nice attempt at sneaking in a moral lesson for Simon, but in the end it still looks like a "get rid of all adult involvement" move.7.) How can a boy who doesn't know mundane culture, read poetry and literature by mundanes?
The things I did like--Simon.
Plus, whenever Jace came around in Simon's POV, I actually liked Jace again.
Sulking Jace dampens the fun.
And it was a WOMAN."), interesting subplots that are shoved aside for no good reason to make room for more Jace/Clary angst (*cough*Simon*cough*), and the worst way of getting rid of a main villain who is supposedly badass ("Me willz totally stand herez and liek talk 'bout killin joo instead of actually doin it and --" "OMFG WE DEFEATED JOO!" "OH NOES ME DEAD!") this has to be one of the worst books I've ever read.
Sure, there have been worse, but this manages to outshine all of those for what it truly is -- complete and utter garbage.I am really shocked as to how this book was picked up by an agent.
“Hearts are breakable," Isabelle said. "And I think even when you heal, you're never what you were before".”  After Valentine was down in the previous book, Sebastian is ready to takeover his father's tasks. CoFA is completely cruel and cunning, but the way CC treated our beloved characters isn't what I like. She gave them their HEA and ripped it away in the first half of this book I wanted to sob for hours for every single thing between the chapters. I didn't like it at all. I wanted to throw
After Valentine was down in the previous book, Sebastian is ready to takeover his father's tasks.
She gave them their HEA and ripped it away in the first half of this book I wanted to sob for hours for every single thing between the chapters.
I wanted to throw this book away and read CoG over again.CoFA deserves two stars, yet the reason I gave it three because of some twists and turns.
Sebastian is like a SOB for me, he's too charismatic to be a villain.
Not like Valentine, I didn't even believe his motivation to dominate the world, it's pointless and weightless.
I was a little apprehensive going into this book because I'd heard some people saying it was their least favorite in the series, but I ended up really enjoying it!
My only complaint is that I found some of the relationship drama a bit frustrating (COMMUNICATION, PEOPLE!) but, you know, it wouldn't be a Cassie Clare book without some romantic angst ;)Overall, I really liked this book, I thought it was a great installment in the series, and I'm SO EXCITED to jump right into City of Lost Souls!
Like seriously, I'm going to pick it up as soon as I'm done typing this review.
This was the first book i ever read in third person and i didnt think i was going to like it.
After that i couldnt wait for City of Ashes or Glass.
After City of Glass i didnt think she would write any more because i thought it ended nicely.
City of Bones, Ash, and Glass had so many twists and turnes that I'm wondering what other twists will Ms. Clare come up with next?
Alec and Magnus love each other for personality and not looks or blood.
I cannot wait for Ms. Clare's next book City of Fallen Angels.
The story is primarily told through Simon and Clary's POVs, but that doesn't stop scenes from Isabelle's POV (something that came out of no where in my opinion) and, of course, the boy wonder Jace's POV.
I wanted to slap the two of them with a copy of Romeo and Juliet and tell them to try the cold embrace of death so they could always, always be together.Given the time frame and the sibling factor, Clary and Jace barely got to be together before the BIG PLOT in this book tears them apart all over again.
The white van at the curb, the slant of the street as it curves back toward Greenpoint, the dark opening of an alley behind the bar, and Clary at the corner, about to cross the street and walk out of his life forever.She yanks her arm out of his when he reaches for her, but when he puts his hand against her back, she lets him guide her into the alley.
He fingers are digging into his shoulders, her mouth fierce against his, and his heart is pounding like it’s trying to get free of his body as he sets her down on a broken speaker.Stop, his mind is telling him.
Clary and Jace learned they weren't brother and sister, so they could be together, Simon was a vampire and finally attracting some chicks, Magnus and Alec were getting closer and snugglier, blah, blah, blah, everyone was happy and satiated.
I began questioning my own reading comprehension, thinking perhaps all those steamy scenes from previous books, the longing, the yearning, the nearly-having-sex Clary and Jace of the past was all in my imagination.
Alec spends his scenes sulking over Magnus' romantic past up until the end where he's either fighting baddies or stupidly freeing them.
#progressThings got a bit more interesting once the plot finally appeared, but the whole dead babies + cult thing was weird.
The next book does seem set up to be way more interesting, though!
Anyways, fun things: Simon was by far the most interesting part of this book and the best developed character.
I liked getting a chance to see way more of his life and thoughts.
Why can't they be the main characters?!Basically, you can definitely tell that the first 3 books were meant to be their own plot arc.
*Shout out to the Loudoun County library for carrying the kindle version so I don't have to lug around these honking big hardcovers. You're the real hero here.I've been putting this off for far too long because I'm so tired of Clary and Jace, but I'm dying to get to The Dark Artifices. Please tell me I can get through these and that it's worth it? *sob sob sob*
And although a lot was left open-ended at the end of the third book, it still felt like a happy ending.
I mean, there were a lot of issues from the third book that had yet to be solved.
I like that Maia and her backstory were developed a lot more in this book.
And I liked Isabelle a lot more in this book, too.
I also liked that Cassandra Clare brought the whole Clockwork Angel story into it a bit more.Then ...
If someone's body goes missing in a book, you KNOW they're going to become a problem later on.
After reading  The Infernal Devices,  I didn't think the last half of The Mortal Instruments would live up to the expectations that the prequels set, and this book  proved me right.  At least just in this case. City of Fallen Angels is by far my least favorite book in this series.This book was just filled with stupid  relationship drama.  Relationship drama between no other than Clary and Jace. No surprise there! Relationship drama between Simon, Isabelle, and Maia. Relationship drama between Ma
Relationship drama between no other than Clary and Jace.
Relationship drama between Simon, Isabelle, and Maia.
It seemed like Cassandra Clare stirred up all this drama with literally ALL the couples in the beginning of the book only to bring them all back together again by the end of City of Fallen Angels.Clary and Jace have literally been 
I can't wait to see what new relationship problems they have next in City of Lost Souls.
80% of this book consisted of everybody and their relationship problems and the other 
I feel like this book, or maybe even just the last half of this series in general, was just really unnecessary.
Honestly....was this book even necessary in the whole series? Idk...somehow I felt like nothing important to the whole plot happened in this book 0_0
Pre-reading: I swear I don't know why. It's like it's calling me.But hey, maybe it's good for a laugh? You know, when I stopped piercing my eyes out of course.---------------------Also, for clarification purposes, I refer to Jace as ZOMBIE, because he technically is one (being dead alive and all). Actual review (major spoilers ahead obviously): Simon [on Facebook] : UGH, being a teenage vampire and having two hot girlfriends is soooo HARD! I think I'm now gonna write dark poetry while listening
I totally didn't read exactly the same thing in a much better book called Ironside]Simon: The best thing to do now is not go to one of my friends, or even the homeless shelter, but to the vampires that tried to kill me!Raphael: Lolz, nope.Kyle: You can stay with me, person I've known for exactly 5 minutes!
We're the only two important adult characters in this book, lets marry!Kyle: SIMON BELONGS TO ME!ZOMBIE: NO, SKANK, HE BELONGS TO ME!Simon: ...Dude.
There's one last thing I have to say before I let you leave.I now believe that Cassandra Clare is, in reality, only writing these books to deliver a message to us.
