https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/555310.The_Cell
Almost gave up half way through.Wish I had ! Absolutely rediculous plot and characters not to mention the spelling mistakes.How old was Colinn Forbes when he wrote this Dribble in his early Teens I guess.Don"t waste your time.
London schwebt in großer Gefahr...doch scheinbar will das niemand erkennen, zumindest bis auf Tweed und sein Spezialteam (einer Bande aus Macho-Männern mit großen Gewehren und einer gutaussehenden Frau, die im Umgang mit Schusswaffen jeglichen Kalibers geübt ist, dabei aber trotzdem noch bei jeder Kleinigkeit die klischeehaft überemotionale Frauenrolle einnimmt).
Ihm ist es zu verdanken, dass England auf einen Terroranschlag durch die El Kaida vorbereitet ist, der größere Ausmaße als 9/11 annehmen soll...Die Geschichte ist spannend und actionreich erzählt und spielt zu großen Teilen in einem mysteriösen, total verrückten Dorf namens Carpford, leider sind das aber dann auch schon die Qualitäten.
I really should make this comment about all the Colin Forbes books I have read (and I am pretty sure I have read them all). All are very easy to read but the plot is far fetched and every book has the word diabolical used a diabolical number of times. And every second one has a blonde girl wearing a green dress with gold belt and another with a blue dress and pussy bow. Mark my words. Read them all and prove me wrong :)
Farfetched plot and actions of characters. Padded, repetitive, and tedious execution trying to build tension and drama but never achieving them. Author seemed torn between portraying Paula as emotional or a super tough version of Wonderwoman and tried too hard. Tries to build the mystery by never letting the reader (or his team) know what he's thinking. Poor novel even by Colin Forbes usual low standards.
One of Forbes' best since the fall of the USSR as Tweed's main enemy. Far more relevant and current, with the 'good guys' also sustaining some injuries and collateral damage. The main problem? Forbes still tries to tie too much together at the end, and he can't see past this idea that 'masterminds' have to be British. Are other nationalities lacking the required intelligence or something?!
This was my first colin forbes novella and honestly speaking i did not care too much for it. The characters are too rigid, robotic and stereotypical. You dont identify with either them or the storyline which also feels a bit too washed. Could finish just about half before i gave up on it. Hopefully vorpal blade will be better
Al Qaida beraamt een aanslag op Londen. Tweed moet dat proberen te voorkomen. Het verhaal is op een paar punten spannend, maar veel vaker niet. Over het geheel genomen kon het verhaal me niet'pakken'.
A book that merely serves as an appetiser, rather like a Transformers movie. Full of action, drama, terrorism, but the characters just fall flat with hardly any character development. Shoddy piece of writing.
A very nice novel, but packed with a lot of fiction.
I loe Colin Forbes, and i won this book.
I love Colin Forbes and this is reasonably well-written, but seems like a quick production to take advantage of fears of Al-Qaida and terrorism following 9/11.
A very enjoyable read from a very good author.
Fast paced action but the characters are two dimensional and the setting is too unbelievable.
