https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/582178.The_Aerodrome
During a bit of timely eavesdropping, he discovers that his father and mother are not his parents, and with an added slice of cherry on top that, his father, the rector, is actually a murderer.
The Vice-Marshall waves the whole event off as just an unfortunate accident.But was it?The Aerodrome in true Fascist form takes over the village.
The Flight-Lieutenant is put in charge of the sermons at the church, which of course is just a way to continue to indoctrinate the village into the philosophies of the Vice-Marshall.
Bess convinces Roy to become an airman, and he actually discovers he is very good at flying.
Introduction, by Michael MoorcockAuthor's Note--The Aerodrome: A Love Story
Like Orwell and Huxley, Warner is tackling the dystopian reality beneath utopian ideologies and despite a less than nostalgic take on the alternative (the local rector confesses to murdering his best friend to clear his way to marry the friend’s fiancee, drinking and violence are issues, hypocrisy common, ambition lacking) he finds the utopian prescription more curse than cure.
In the end, it’s an engrossing (after a sluggish start) and, for its time, an important tale.
So maybe The Aerodome is still an important book.
As I was reading the novel, I was preparing myself to write at greater length, but now that I feel so cheated by the experience, why bother?
Still, The Aerodrome is worth reading for a number of reasons.
Warner has a deceptively simple way of writing that suggests much beneath the surface, so if you're into style, it's worth a look.
I've read enough of Ballard to see why (style & approach).
For historical reasons alone this book has a place beside Brave New World and 1984; and on a literary level, for a while at least, The Aerodrome may have been the better novel.
Here Roy reflects on the man’s effect during an incredibly misogynistic speech on sex:Surprising as had been much that we had heard, no one, it seemed, had for that reason allowed his attention to wander; and this fact seemed to me a tribute to the personal force of the man before us who, without any obvious effort or deliberate style of oratory, still compelled us to hang upon his words and to remember them, as I knew we should do, long after his speech was finished.
It's a great story of modernity--how modernization changes peoples lives, bringing in benefits but crowdint out other things.
It also attempts to explain how fascism can take hold in apparently peaceful, moral people.Great characters--its young protagonist, Roy, is all of us, trying to find his way in a changing world.
The most interesting character is the Air Vice Marshall, the stand in for fascim, who is probably the most likeable, appealing character in the book--which is what makes it all the more frightening.A real gem and a "lost" classic.
Absolutely brilliant. I can't understand why it was out of print for so long, or why it isn't better known. It is in the line of Wells, Huxley and Orwell and it is the most Kafkaesque novel I have ever read by a writer who isn't named Franz Kafka. It is also an obvious influence on JG Ballard. Rex Warner needs to be rediscovered.
But it's still worth reading his 1941 work The Aerodrome - one of ten he wrote - because though it's flawed, it contains an odd power.
Rather than standard-bearers of a clean, technological solution to war, as heroism personified, the air force in The Aerodrome is a perverse beast: it's run by opportunists who are protected even when they murder.
There's the sense Warner is bitter, at least about the fleeting happiness of love, and it suits the book's overwhelming drive towards mechanisation, modernity.
Warner's book hasn't aged particularly well, but it's an unsettling read that creates a great sense of place.
So without any further ado, here is my litany of ambivalence:I liked...the theme, some of the characters, the conflict between village and military complex, the distopian overtones, the use of metaphor, the first chapter and few of the others, the prose and I suppose most of all (which segues somewhat crudely to my dislikes) was the potential this book held.
The other exists in my imagination as possibilites and optimistic potential.In other words:Read this book.
3.5
Pretty good--My newfound hero John Gray called this book "extraordinary," and so I had to go read it.
Though the first-person narrator is a likable character, he does A LOT of telling instead of showing, so much so that his experience as a pilot in the Air Force is pretty much glossed over, and the conspiracy of the Vice Air Marshal is, while super fascinating in its outline, remains an outline couched in generalities.
But the fact that I read through it to the end shows that the author, despite all the melodramatic extravaganza, pulls it off.
Flawed, but well worth reading.
I came to "The Aerodrome" thru reading Brian Aldis's introduction to Kavan's "Ice"; they do bear a kinship with one another.
The first 3/4 of the novel were wonderful, surreal, dark, funny, absurd...
Its a shame, as the rest is easily on par with any other dystopian novel of its sort I've read, such as 1984 or BNW; and is probably why it is not remembered and read along with those.
Not really sure where the part about Fascism being dangerous was. This was more of a trundle through the English countryside with some characters on the set of a village which was supposed to represent the future. Dated in many ways and I felt disappointed, but serves me right for buying a book based on the cover, which I thought was artistically creative.
This allegorical novel is an entertaining polemic about the virtues and vices of casual English democracy and idealistic fascism. What makes the allegory murky and adds to the humor is that the obvious antithesis of democracy and fascism is shown to lie at another level: one where the antithesis is natural man vs. aspirant man, which speaks of the inherent (religious) nature of humankind. What is added to the conceptual muddle is that natural man  is  religious, inherently, and it's in trying to
After the botched semblance of a romance and marriage with a local girl who is smitten with a flight officer from the Aerodrome, he is swayed by the Air Vice-Marshall's stern vision of a better and more dispassionate world to enlist in the Air Force and learn to fly in the Aerodrome.Roy becomes an ace pilot in short time and he is taken under Air Vice-Marshall's wing.
Something, however, doesn't feel right, and Roy begins to see that there is something vital missing in the execution of the Air Vice-Marshall's vision of a society that frees itself from traditional inefficiencies (such as emotional attachments) in order to attain discipline and power.
Great potential, interesting setting. Starts of Kafkian and ends up feeling like a dystopian soup-opera, of sorts.
For those craving dystopic and atavistic titles to read when they've finished with Kafka and Orwell---I very much agree with Anthony Burgess that this work is the equal to anything by those names.
Simply told--plain, direct syntax--a small handful of characters.
On this basis I would not rank it one of the 'best novels of the century' (as Burgess does).
Its extremely emotional; sharp, very keen in that regard.
Confusion arising from having too many choices can paralyze us.
Such as one rarely sees even in classic literature and such as you would never see in a modern book.
It shows the attractiveness of militarism, with its glamour and sense of order, but also the dangers in allowing its complete domination.The story is firmly rooted in the author's present, a country village with an aerodrome built nearby to defend the country.
So far we are in the real world.It is only when Roy, the young narrator, is accepted into the Air Force and joins the aerodrome that the story moves beyond the real world and into a dystopian vision.
The Air Force does not just want to defend the country, it wants to change it and take it over.
THE AERODROME by Rex Warner is a brilliant exploration of the insidious creeping allure of fascism, offering a powerful anti-fascist warning for sleepy democracies. Published 1941. Truly a classic.
I think the author did a great job in helping the reader connect with the main character, Roy, even through the stiff writing style.
***SPOILER*** IMHO, it wasn't difficult to elucidate a familial connection with the Vice Air-Marshall or someone in the high-ranks for Roy to be promoted so quickly as he did: taking only one year to be placed in his final military position.
If the characters were better developed, I think 4.
As it was, the writing style was very dry and characters quite stiff.
I discovered this novel upon finding a reprint paperback edition in a bookshop in the mid-nineties.
It was a felicitous discovery for this is one of the best allegorical novels that I've ever read.
The story is not complicated, but the action is horrifying in the determination of the state, represented by the airforce, attempting to implement the eradication of sin.
The climactic outcome of the story I will leave to readers to discover for themselves, but the novel made such an impression upon me that I remember it better than many books I have read much more recently.
It's a cute little trick until, more and more, everyone appears to be related to everyone else and you fall out of love with it and realise that you liked it best when he was a happy fascist, and then you think "Well, what does that say about me?""When I held Bess in my arms, naked or clothed, I felt assured that I was laying hold of a brilliant, a better, an unexpected world, never thinking that I was doing only what every other man had done and what had finally satisfied nobody."
This book is not as 'popular' as other contemporary distopias that have become part of the world's literary canon, but still deserves some attention as the reader could relate it to both '1984' and 'Brave new world'. But this is not its only merit, I really found it well written and interesting by itself.
Great story, but it took till most of the way through the book to figure out if the author was satirizing the philosophy of the Air Vice-Admiral or presenting it as (forgive me) admirable. On the whole, I tended to sympathize with the "bad guy," even after I was sure he was supposed to *be* the bad guy.
Liked it a good deal, really a well done book - like an magic allegory, it has these leaps of logic that are believable in the world created by the author - yet I found it a bit too didactic to really great literature. It seems topical to the 20th century, much like Orwell's 1984.
A disturbing and unusual book, scarily gripping
Rural life trampled by mechanisation, fascism and the Air Vice-Marshal...
Eight years older than 1984 , its claim to be regarded as a modern classic is as sound as that of Orwell's novel. We shall see.
Once I was through the first page I really enjoyed, missed some of the deeper allegory about fascism. Thought Warner had a great style with a timeless nature, would recommend as a good read
A wonderful study in emotion, love, secrets and deceptions, set in the British countryside with all its restrained passion. Bravo!
