https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18465852-the-book-of-unknown-americans
Arturo and Alma Rivera have moved from Mexico so their daughter, Mirabel, who suffered an accident on Arturo's construction site, can get the help she needs.As Arturo and Alma try to make sense of their new life, while keeping an unbearably close eye on their daughter, Maribel is befriended by Mayor Toro who lives with his parents in the complex.
Interspersed with the main story are testimonials from other residents in the apartment complex and I wanted to know more of their lives.
I wanted them to have a more significant role in the story because they were so vividly drawn.A lovely book, though.
Her parents Alma and Arturo Rivera would do anything for their daughter, look up schools for special needs children in the United States, and leave the only life they knew behind and move to Wilmington, Delaware so Maribel can attend Evers School.
The people in this book are the Unknown Americans- a photographer, a small business owner, an army vet, a line cook, parents seeking better lives for themselves and their children.
Over the course of the book even Maribel improves in both her school work and long term outlook on life while Alma with the help of Celia Rivera learns rudimentary English.
Call me cold-hearted but I found this novel both overly simplistic and overly sentimental, with too few genuine characters and too many archetypes who say things to each other like, "Finding is for things that are lost. You don't need to find me, Mayor." Does anybody really talk like that? If the book's simplicity and sentimentality help its overall message -- hey, immigrants are people too! -- gain traction with large groups of readers in the States, great. But just because I sympathize with the author's mission doesn't make me a fan of her writing.
"Those people….."All Americans should read this book about "those people." It presents a series of interconnected stories about a family who came to the U.S. to get services for their injured child, a family who came because of violence in their home town, a woman who came because she loves movies and will never be able to be a star at home, a man who sends money for his sons to go to school.
What I will say - I walked away from this story looking at things a little differently.
It made me feel like the human aspect of the situation is too easily overlooked.I think we forget that some of these immigrants are just people looking for a better life - a way to take care of their families.
They leave behind their extended family, their home, the husband’s business; all in an effort to get their daughter some help.
The family ends up in an apartment building in Delaware that’s solely occupied by hispanic immigrants.
So often we hear about laws, and issues, and the numbers surrounding immigration without stopping to consider the human element.This book puts names with faces, and finally humanizes the population of people who come to this country for various reasons, hoping for a better way of life.
While the topic of immigration is one that is sure to spark instant and heated debate, especially during an election year, this book is not a political novel, it is just a story that paints a vivid portrait of the way of life many immigrants face after moving to America.
This book wants to be a lot of things – love story, issue-oriented novel, independent essays – which should make it a mess, but somehow all work together to make a book that really touched my heart.The story is told in alternating voices as we meet the residents of an apartment building in Delaware.
The bulk of the story, its heart really, is a love story between Panamanian Mayor, whose family has been in the U.S. since he was a few years old, and Maribel, a beautiful but brain injured girl whose family has made the journey from Mexico so she can have a better education.
This device was probably aiming to establish some sens of a pan-Latino identity, but you don't do that by ignoring difference -- you do that by embracing it.Alma had potential as a character, but as a central character to the book, she is perhaps childishly optimistic and at first completely oblivious to the country she is living in.
Yes. She has plenty of potential, but choosing such an ambitious project as her first novel -- a book that seemingly tries to express the voice of not just one Latin American nationality, but all Latinos -- is out of her grasp, and would likely be out of the grasp of even the most experienced Latino writers.
One family moves to the USA from Mexico after their daughter suffers a near-fatal accident.
Their daughter ends up having a Traumatic Brain Injury.
The family moves so she can go to one of the best special education schools.
The daughter, Maribel, becomes friends with Mayor Toro, who also lives in the Redwood Apartments.
He is a high school sophomore whose family arrived from Panamá fifteen years ago.
Mayor sees in Maribel something others do not: her personality and her potential.This covers many issues that immigrants face and families with a child that has traumatic brain injury.
A tale about guilt & love & forgiveness, I loved all of the characters, specifically Maribel & Mayor & the relationship that blooms between them.
I really enjoyed all of the POVs & believed deeply in the Alma & Arturo standpoint & how much they sacrificed so their daughter could have a chance to start over again.
The only reason why I didn't give this the full 5* is because of the minor character's POVs; while they never became distracting, I do think they were short & would have liked them to have been more drawn out, to play a larger role with the MCs. Highly recommended!!
🇸🇻nobody knows about nicaragua 🇳🇮 or guatemala 🇬🇹 or belize 🇧🇿 or panamá 🇵🇦 or honduras 🇭🇳 the most people will know about CA is costa rica 🇨🇷 my central american heart has never been bursting so much happinessi don’t even care if nobody has read this.i don’t even care if any of my friends here have read it and didn’t enjoy it.i just got so happy when i saw this for latin america representation.because yes, hEEEYYY!!!
central america !!!
is a 7-country spanish-speaking region !!!i need this book NOWwe !
need !
central !
They are always a moment away from disaster, financially and emotionally.This novel gives one a great deal to think about, an opportunity to experience the many different ways these new immigrants try to fit in, how desperately they want to be considered Americans.The romance between the one family's daughter and the son of the other, is almost too sweet, but maybe given the circumstances, understandable.
Updated to 4 stars. I didn't want this book to end. I wanted to follow the characters and see where the rest of their lives took them. I recommend this one.
Space devoted to this would have been better used in developing the characters and showing perspective on the culture and the family dynamic.There have been some excellent non-fiction narratives on the contemporary immigrant experience such as those in Matt Taibbi's The Divide: American Injustice in the Age of the Wealth Gap. There have been only a few other cuts at this material in fiction, most notable being The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. I think that this book has been well received because tfhere represent a hunger for fiction relating the the Latino immigrant experience.
Another book I tore through in just a couple of sittings. Henriquez starts with what appears to be a simple love story between two teens and weaves in multiple stories of immigrants from all over Latin America. The result is a much larger love story, between the two teens' families and between the immigrants and the United States itself.
Unfortunately, that device has gone the way of the dinosaur and my notes didn't make it to the cloud in time.For now:I loved this novel of various immigrants from all over Latin America living in an apartment complex in Delaware.
Meanwhile: highly recommended!One more thought: I read this while enjoying the lovely people and scenery of Mexico.
Over the course of the evening I found out that he had been born in Mexico, but moved with his parents to Texas when he was still a baby.
All of his siblings, who were born in the US, were allowed to stay, but he was not.
Alma and Arturo come from Mexico to Delaware, of all places, in the hopes that their brain-damaged daughter, Maribel, can get better help at a special needs school in the U.S. Their story is interspersed with testimonials from men and women from Puerto Rico, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Panama and other places.
All of the stories and vignettes combine into a whole that tells the tale of one immigrant community in America and the struggles they face trying to assimilate.While enlightening and interesting, I wish the characters would have been more fully fleshed out - I didn't find it as affecting as it could have been.
Still, a timely topic and a story that will keep you turning the pages.
I felt like these could have been real people and it made the stories much more gripping as well.~Main Theme: Immigration~Arturo and his family move to America in order for his daughter Maribel to attend a special needs school.
I guess this spoke even more to me due to being an immigrant myself (and my family as well actually) so I know what it is like to be a stranger in a country very different to your own.
I wish I could say this was a light hearted novel just so that all of them end up happy but this was nothing like that.
Their new apartment may be small and rundown, and Arturo may only work in a damp and dark warehouse picking mushrooms for a living, but at least Maribel will have a better life in America.
Interspersed throughout the novel are short chapters that allow the various characters we meet throughout the story to come to life in their own words and lend their voice to the narrative of the immigrant experience.These short chapters are what give the book its name and they provide a rebuttal to anti-immigrant rhetoric that is only intensifying in American.
This story recounts the immigrant experience of a vast array of Latinos on the eastern central coast of America, in Delaware.
The chain of events had a kind of logic to them that began in ignorance and fear, and were sustained by the well-known uncommunicativeness of teenagers.Henriquez’ use of first-person narration, changing the ‘voice’ from one chapter to another, gave the piece immediacy and truthfulness.
The final chapter is given finally to the father of Mexican family who reveals his pleasure in the struggle they have undergone, despite its many disappointments.I listened to the audio of this book, performed by an array of narrators and produced by Random House Audio.
So let's bullet point this because it's easier:- This was beautifully written and there were some incredibly poignant lines about the immigrant experience and dealing with racism in America- Alma's chapters were definitely my favourites.
- Mayor's chapters were...kind of a mixed bag for me?
I mean, I really liked his perspective.
But. He's a typical teenage boy, so.......- The chapters from the perspectives of the various characters living in the apartment building were wonderful, though at times they felt ever so slightly repetitive.
He'd say things like "I could tell she was into it" or "I knew she felt it too".
Add to this star-crossed love story the fact that the author never really pins down a solid main character and adds in random chapters that are told from the voice of various people in Mayor and Maribel's neighborhood and it's almost like the book really does become just a compendium of "unknown" or lost immigrant Americans.
Instead, they just felt like filler to me that served no real purpose in the overall storyline.(view spoiler)[Not to mention, the ending in the book sucked!
Good book about a family that moves to Delaware to seek better educational opportunities for their daughter who suffered a brain injury in Mexico.
I did like that toward the end of the book, Maribel's parents finally talk about the accident that caused her brain damage.
Both talked about guilt and how their daughter is "not like before."The book also contains testimonials of individuals from various countries who are looking for a better life.
Although the testimonials are good, I felt they got in the way of learning more about the two families in this book.
Good book.
"People do what they have to in this life.
We try to get from one end of it to the other with dignity and with honour.
We do the best we can."You will never fully know what people are trying to overcome.
It’s hard to make it in the world as is, even harder in a place that makes you feel less than who you are.
But at the end of it all, "they might realize that we're not that bad, maybe even that we're a lot like them.
And who would they hate then?"  The Book of Unknown Americans is a story that leaves you with hope.
”Back then, all we wanted was the simplest things: to eat good food, to sleep at night, to smile, to laugh, to be well. We felt it was our right, as much as it was anyone’s, to have these things. Of course, when I think about it now, I see that I was naïve. I was blinded by the swell of hope and the promise of possibility, I assumed that everything that would go wrong in our lives already had.” Excuse me, I think I have something in my eye. Or there’s an onion chopping ninja floating around som
By setting the story in Delaware, we can see the stark contrast between states that have a lot of Latino immigration and states that don’t, making the experience all the more scary and isolating to the Riveras and Toros.Another surprising thing that I encountered was the authors portrayal of not only white prejudice and stereotypes against Latinos, but Latino stereotyping against Latinos (and other racial minorities).
It was raw and real in the way teenage love tends to be, no matter if you were born here or anywhere else.I did like the multiple perspectives of this book, I do think that the author needed to compromise some of the sections.
I'd rate this 3.5 stars.Arturo and Alma Rivera lived a happy life in Mexico until their beautiful teenage daughter, Maribel, sustains a serious injury in an accident.
In addition to telling the story of the Rivera and Toro families, the plot is interwoven with brief testimonials from other neighbors, each of whom came from a different Latin American country and experienced different struggles and happinesses upon arriving in America.
This is a book that makes you think a little bit more about the challenges and barriers people often deal with when coming to America, even legally.I thought this was a very captivating read, and Henriquez is an excellent storyteller.
From the first pages I was captivated by the sustained voices of the characters written with such grace and dignity as I felt their humanity, hopefulness, and despair to do what they had to do ensure a better life for their children and often, times themselves.
I so enjoyed how the author connects the reader to the characters.The story opens with Arturo and Alma Rivera arriving in Newark, Delaware with their daughter, Maribel.
We had done what we had to do.” As we follow the Riveras journey, meeting the Toros and other Central and Latin American immigrants we learn of their plights realizing these are slices of life that happen universally.
The title of this book is perfect because it is for all the people who have come to the United States, with a dream of a better life, but whose faces, voices, somehow get lost in the face of so much discrimination.
They leave their lives behind in Mexico and come to the U.S. so that Maribel can attend a school that will help her.
The two eventually fall in love and what happens on a tragic night will bring up questions of blame and living with the choices they make.The story felt very personal to me.
There were a couple things that set this book apart from most I've read about the immigrant experience.
Arturo, Alma and Maribel, one of the families at the center of the story, did not leave Mexico looking for a better life.
Just let me enjoy getting to know the two main families and don't bother a bit trying to round out my perspective.
Other books can do that.I also felt that Maribel learned very quickly how to process a joke, comprehend text, follow prompts, and focus for longer time periods.
Arturo says toward the end of the book, "People do what they have to in this life.
I met Christina in Austin, Texas, back on Oct. at the Book Festival....had a chance to hear her speak about writing this book --her passion for it.
Its since just won the large 'book award' in San Jose this year.
Living in San Jose, Calif.
In Christina Henriquez's book "The Book of Unknown American's"....Latino immigrants come from Mexico, Venezuela, Puerto Rico, Panama, Guatemala, and Nicaragua.
Several Spanish speaking families from different countries are all living in the same apt.
The Latino immigrants --each from the diverse countries -- all have their own personal rich culture, their language.
We've a high population of Latino immigrants in San Jose!Congrats, to Christina!
