https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152163.The_Rommel_Papers
صورة للماريشال الالماني ايروين روميل ( ثعلب الصحراء)يعتبر روميل من اقوى وادهى جنرلات المانيا النازية بل و بالحرب كلها.ولد يوم 15 نوفمبر 1891.شارك بالحرب العالمية 1 برتبة ظابط صف وحارب على الجبهة النمساوية عرف بجراته وحنكته العسكرية فقد استطاع اسر 1200 اسير ايطالي وهو مع 150 عسكري الماني فقط.واثناء الحرب العالمية الثانية برزت موهبته الفذة فالقيادة حيث كان ضمن الحملة العسكرية ضد فرنسا سنة 1940 وقد عرفت فرقته البانزر 7 التي قادها بفرقة الشبح لسرعتها وخفتها في إجتياح الاراضي وتطويق جيوش الحلفاء..وبعد ذلك ارسله هتلر لشمال ليبيا لانقاض القوات الايطالية المتقهقرة امام الانجليز....لكنه استطاع دحر الانجليز الى مسافة 100 كم عن الاسكنرية (العالمين) رغم الفارق فالقوات والعتاد والتموين لصالح الحلفاء.وبعدها انهزم الالمان في معركة العالمين بسبب التفوق الكاسح للحلفاء في ميزان القوى...ورغم ذلك استطاع إنقاض الاكثرية من قواته بسلسلة من الإنسحبات التكتيكة الابرع في التاريخ...وهزم الامريكان شر هزيمة بمعركة القصرين بتونس...وبعد استسلام جيوشه في تونس ارسل لإيطاليا ونظم دفاعات مونتي كاسينو التي ظلت صامدة حتى استسلام المانيا وبرلين 8 ماي 1945...
marvelous book mainly on account of following following points1) Incredible insight into much famed and little known Blitzkrieg by master himself2) Unparalleled account of Axis PoV of African campaign.
It becomes a little drag towards the end when author shifts his focus to topics of Italian and Invasion battles.
But that can possibly be because little Rommel written material for that period was available.A must book for not only people who are interested in WW II, but also a suggested reading for someone who wants to have a deep insight into working of one of the greatest modern time army leader.rating:- ****
Field Marshall Erwin Rommel took the time off between battles to reflect on the leadership, strategy and tactics of the wars he was conducting.
His human side comes out strongly in the letters to his family that are interspersed chronologically betwen his account of the various battles.
His accounts provide insights on how he managed to win a series of spectacular victories despite an inferiority in tanks and personnel, and how he ultimately lost the war because of a cursed supply line and subsequent micro management by the political leadership.
He also provides insights to how technology will shape the direction of modern war.
يمكن حد يقولي ليه أعطيته 5 نجوم مع أن البعض ممكن يعطيه 3 بس !!لاني أحب هذا القائد العسكري الفذ و أنا واثق من كان يستطيع هزيمة الحلفاء لولا تأخر الامدادات العسكرية و إهمال هتلر لافريقيا بعدما أصبح يخسر أوروبا نفسها على يد السوفيت الكتاب في تفاصيل التفاصيل و لاني أحب العسكرية و الخطط الحربية أعطيه 5نجوم
Predictably, this book did not even come close to equaling Generalfeldmarschall Rommel's account of his service during WWI, Attacks, which is deservedly considered a classic work in the field of military art & science, in addition to being an eminently readable combat narrative/memoir.
Generalfeldmarschall Rommel's former Chief-of-Staff Generalleutnant Fritz Bayerlein also contributed to the book, both in terms of writing a fairly long section to cover a gap in the narrative and also general assistance.Although it was not a particularly easy book to read, parts of the narrative were interesting, and the opportunity to even partially get an idea of what was going through the head of this extraordinarily talented officer was well worth the time and effort.
قريته من زمان ... ده الكتاب الاصلي مش اي هبل تاني بيتنشر دلوقتي .. تقدر تلاقيه اونلاين مترجم ترجمة الستينات الصح ... ليدل هارت بذل مجهود خرافي فى تجميع جوابات روميل و مساعدينه علشان يرسم رحلة روميل الكاملة فى ميدان القتال .. وازاي الرجل ده حقق معجزات فى فرنسا و ازاي حارب بلا جيش تقريباً فى افريقيا...انصح اي شخص بيقرا فى التاريخ الالماني والحرب العالمية الثانية انه يقرا الكتاب ده ولازم يبقى معاك خريطة :D علشان كمية المناطق اللى روميل بيتكلم عليها كتيرة جداً فلازم تبقى فاهم خط السير كويس
Splendid reading - if you like tactics and strategy this is for you
Rommel was quite a shutterbug and included are photos of his expeditions and a good number of maps to help us get an idea of what he is going through in each section.The content is very informing, especially the progression of Rommel from early invasion of France to his time at the Atlantic wall.
The German perspective leaves a sense of awe in the beginning of the war.
The way I interpreted it, war was a big game towards the beginning.
But the war didn't end, it dragged on and with it Rommel gets deeper and deeper into the inner workings of the Third Reich.
This book is mostly comprised of notes taken by Rommel himself during WWII, with a heavy focus on tactics and strategy (Rommel was apparently planning write a book after the war, much like he did in WWI with "Infantry Attacks"), interspersed with letters to his wife and son, and the occasional journal entry.
Still, I found it to be a interesting look at "the other side of the hill", as the book phrases it.
Perhaps what I liked best about it was how much of the content is Rommel's own words.
What this book doesn't delve into is the reasons for Rommel's appointment to North Africa, which was a post of very little significance.
Erwin Rommel was very loyal to his country but disapproved of the Nazi regime.
The book does explain the reasons behind his assassination, but this is mostly focussed on his military genius and exploits rather than delving into his political leanings and the effect that they had on his career and finally, his life.
An amazing diary written by Irwin Rommel during WWII prior to his assasination. He was considered one of the greatest generals in history. His commentaries in his diary on leadership are timeless and are just as pertinent today as they were 65 years ago. There are numerous leadership comments he makes here that I use with my staff today and they are better than anything any consultant group tries to sell my organization! A must read.
THE ROMMEL PAPERS is a definite read for those who have interest in World War II.
Cue the scapegoats when it finally became clear that Germany was losing the war.It is tragic that a Rommel, revered by his troops and officers, was tagged as said scapegoat.
What a choice to have to make.The input by Manfred Rommel, the 14-yr old son of Erwin & Lu Rommel at the time of the Papers, is especially enlightening and touching.I definitely recommend this book, but know that it is heavy on military tactics used by both Rommel and his opponents on the battlefield.
1 of 3 books I read this month of 3 most famous Germany's generals in WWII.
Rommel was considered as Germany's greatest fighting general, respected even by the British, who gave him the nickname of "Desert Fox".
A few things stand out in this book: 1) He is always at the front with all other soldiers in battle.
It was a miracle that he was not killed (only injured) in battle before Hilter killed him.
This not only shows his courage as a general, also his way of knowing whatever happens real time in war, to make fast decisions whenever needed.
H. Liddell Hart.), it provides a fascinating account - largely - of the back and forth fighting in North Africa.
It is an excellent account from the German perspective, and it provides a great insight into Rommel's thinking.
However, Rommel avoids talking about - nor does the editor mention it - the massive intelligent intercepts (from one Colonel Fellers) that aided in his decision making and actions.
Likewise, there is no reflection: Rommel nor Liddell Hart talk about the numerous logistical and strategic failures Rommel committed during the course of the North African campaign.
Rommel continues to impress as a cogent, lucid author. Though at times his account suffers from a lack of knowledge into his adversary's true dispositions, whereupon Liddell-Hart does an excellent job with editorial notes.A must read for anyone interested in Rommel's campaigns or WWII history in general.
I found several biased views by author about Rommel, otherwise the celebrated author is often unbiased. I felt that the author was slightly jealous of the personality, because deep down, he wanted to be what Erwin Rommel had become in the history of warfare.
I am not a big fan of military history, but I thought this book was very well done. This is especially true in light of the efforts Rommel's family and fellow officers took to keep his papers out of the wrong hands following his forced suicide.
A really great account compiled by Rommel himself, and others who were in his inner circle throughout WWII. It took some getting used to the US & British being called the "enemy", but interesting none the less. Makes me want to learn more about the Italians in WWII, and tank warfare.
5 star first half, 3 stars second half as Bayerlin and son chime in.
Una perspectiva diferente de la historia. ¿Recursos “ilimitados” para Alemania?
Pure Rommel.
O livro é interessantíssimo, pois além de mostrar o gênio militar de Rommel, mostra sua relação com o governo nazista e seus ideais como comandante militar.
The reader sees and feels the heat of battle up close as Rommel details the campaign against France during the Blitzkrieg early phase of World War II, then on to Africa as Rommel details desert warfare and the siege of Tobruk, the drive to El Alamein and the subsequent loss to the British forces and retreat from El Alamein.
The description of the battle of El Alamein is intense as Rommel details the vastly oversupplied British force pounding the Germans from the air and on the ground.
Rating: 4Recommended for: World War 2 aficionados wanting to learn about RommelNot recommended for: Non-aficionados who only want to know about Rommel I've read a lot of fiction lately; spy fiction, fantasy, sci-fi etc.
Field Marshall Erwin Rommel is one such case.I think it's amazing that Rommel put so much time and effort into writing these letters, which shows not just his tactics but also his mindset.
It felt that not knowing much about battles in World War 2 was a major disadvantage, because Rommel himself wrote about the tactics in each of the battlefields as if these places were common knowledge.
-El “Zorro” cuidando a las gallinas...- Género.
Ensayo.Lo que nos cuenta.
Con prólogos de Liddell Hart (editor original) y del hijo de protagonista (Manfred), con la campaña de invierno de 1941 escrita en parte por Fritz-Bayerlein y con los últimos meses de la vida de Rommel narrados desde la perspectiva de los recuerdos de Manfred, el libro es una recopilación de cartas, notas , reflexiones y documentos del protagonista (y otros de relevancia para el relato) mezclados con aclaraciones del editor respecto a la situación general para complementarla y mostrados en orden cronológico, que nos llevan de la Francia de 1940 hasta octubre de 1944, centrándose principalmente en la campaña del norte de África.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers?
Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
-El “Zorro” cuidando a las gallinas...- Género.
Ensayo.Lo que nos cuenta.
Con prólogos de Liddell Hart (editor original) y del hijo de protagonista (Manfred), con la campaña de invierno de 1941 escrita en parte por Fritz-Bayerlein y con los últimos meses de la vida de Rommel narrados desde la perspectiva de los recuerdos de Manfred, el libro es una recopilación de cartas, notas , reflexiones y documentos del protagonista (y otros de relevancia para el relato) mezclados con aclaraciones del editor respecto a la situación general para complementarla y mostrados en orden cronológico, que nos llevan de la Francia de 1940 hasta octubre de 1944, centrándose principalmente en la campaña del norte de África.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers?
-El “Zorro” cuidando a las gallinas...- Género.
Con prólogos de Liddell Hart (editor original) y del hijo de protagonista (Manfred), con la campaña de invierno de 1941 escrita en parte por Fritz-Bayerlein y con los últimos meses de la vida de Rommel narrados desde la perspectiva de los recuerdos de Manfred, el libro es una recopilación de cartas, notas , reflexiones y documentos del protagonista (y otros de relevancia para el relato) mezclados con aclaraciones del editor respecto a la situación general para complementarla y mostrados en orden cronológico, que nos llevan de la Francia de 1940 hasta octubre de 1944, centrándose principalmente en la campaña del norte de África.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers?
Ensayo.Lo que nos cuenta.
Con prólogos de Liddell Hart (editor original) y del hijo de protagonista (Manfred), con la campaña de invierno de 1941 escrita en parte por Fritz-Bayerlein y con los últimos meses de la vida de Rommel narrados desde la perspectiva de los recuerdos de Manfred, el libro es una recopilación de cartas, notas , reflexiones y documentos del protagonista (y otros de relevancia para el relato) mezclados con aclaraciones del editor respecto a la situación general para complementarla y mostrados en orden cronológico, que nos llevan de la Francia de 1940 hasta octubre de 1944, centrándose principalmente en la campaña del norte de África.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers?
Con prólogos de Liddell Hart (editor original) y del hijo de protagonista (Manfred), con la campaña de invierno de 1941 escrita en parte por Fritz-Bayerlein y con los últimos meses de la vida de Rommel narrados desde la perspectiva de los recuerdos de Manfred, el libro es una recopilación de cartas, notas , reflexiones y documentos del protagonista (y otros de relevancia para el relato) mezclados con aclaraciones del editor respecto a la situación general para complementarla y mostrados en orden cronológico, que nos llevan de la Francia de 1940 hasta octubre de 1944, centrándose principalmente en la campaña del norte de África.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers?
It's interesting to read a war book from the opposing side.
Often in wars, there is no "right" or "wrong" side; it's just a matter of where you fall.
In WWII that's usually false - the Germans were the bad guys.
Except the ordinary German soldier and officer, like Rommel, who was, by all accounts, a brilliant military man in a bad situation who was screwed over by politicians and punished for mistakes that were not his own.
This provides really fascinating insight into one of the most important men of WWII.
