https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10911.Second_Glance
I had trouble getting into this, at first. I found the changing pov choppy. But about halfway through the book I found myself caught up in the story. As usual her work is frightening in how it describes the myriad positive and negative emotions involved in motherhood.
First of all I just have to say that this may be one of the worst Jodi Picoult books I've ever read--one of the most utterly and completely ridiculous storylines in her line of books so far.
Would have made this read so much smoother if she cut it down about 75 percent.
It also rubbed me the wrong way the character Ross would blantantly walk around in his underwear around his sister...was there a need for this description?
Don't get me wrong, Jodi Picoult is a gifted writer...but her concept for this novel was a little far fetched.
More than just a ghost story, Second Glance also teaches us about the horrors of the 1920s-1930s Vermont Eugenics project.
The story has twists and turns, rich detail, and interwoven story lines; and I fear that in attempting to summarize it, I would do a great disservice to the novel and to Jodi Picoult.
Second Glance is at once a ghost story, a love story, and a murder mystery.
Second Glance also is a historical novel, sharing the sad truth of the Vermont Eugenics project and how that project effected the Abenaki.
In the end, Second Glance is a compelling novel that should attract many readers and keep them up at night turning pages.
Não foi o caso deste livro, foi uma leitura muito lenta, difícil e deveras agridoce, houve alguns momentos que gostei mas no geral não me convenceu muito.Já é o terceiro livro que leio da autora, as suas obras nunca são leituras fáceis, mas esta foi a que menos gostei, não senti empatia com nenhum personagem e uma das coisas que mais me perturbou foi a facilidade e leviandade com que a autora aborda o tema do suicídio, basicamente se não sabemos qual o propósito da nossa existência a solução é tirar a própria vida?
Não me convenceu.
Not bad at all.
I liked it and the characters.
There were some very funny moments and not as much controversy as some of Picout's books which made this novel a lighter read than most of her books.
I expected it to be a bit slow at the beginning and it did have some slow moments but not as much as I expected.
I like the ghost aspect which I did not think I would from Picoult because I was afraid it would be like Danielle Steel's Past Present when the ghosts showed up but it wasn't.
Overall, not bad at all and I liked it simply!
You could put in a haunted house or whatever and at the end of the day I still wont believe in ghost.
I was entertained enough that I read the book start to finish without stopping.
I guess if you believe in ghosts or into that sort of scene then I suggest you try out this book.
I'm not really into because I don't believe in ghosts or anything but I've also read other paranormal books with ghosts or evil spirits that were a lot better than this book.I'm sorry - I tried, it just didn't work out with me.
First Jodi piccoult book. I set it down for 3 months, came back to it, found some things that started to click. Led me to read many many more Jodi piccoult books.
I knew as I was sitting in a crowd of over 200 Jodi Picoult fans listening to her recount her field research for this book, it was going to be a novel that would have me looking over my shoulder taking a Second Glance for paranormal presence.
So, at its basic level, Second Glance takes the reader on a journey to show how love can travel through time and maybe...
Once again… absolutely brilliant.This was a perfect choice for a book club discussion as it offered the avenue to discuss ghost stories, genetic testing, boundaries and possibilities.
I really like Jodi Picoult, but the problem with reading many books by one author is that you start to recognize certain patterns and be able to predict the outcome of any given situation.
I knew very early on what happened to Cecilia's baby, as I'm sure most readers did.
I was also pretty sure I knew how Cecilia died because of a riddle I learned in elementary school.
In fact, when I read something I like to try not to predict the ending.
Unfortunately, Jodi Picoult seems incapable of surprising me anymore.Still, it was a good book.
Só não dou cinco estrelas porque as primeiras 150 páginas foram entediantesOpinião completa em: http://marcadordelivros.blogspot.pt/2...
I always believed in the unknown energy around us; something like the existence of a sixth sense.
But when I picked 'Second Glance' to read I never expected the story to be something like that.
My first thought about Second Glance was that its just a book in which the existence of ghosts and invisible forces on earth are going to be questioned and in the end science is going to win.
But apparently I decided to read Second Glance and this book was a wake up call!.
Second Glance stirred my beliefs on undefined forces of nature.
Reading this story re-confirms why Jodi Picoult is one of my favorite authors.I believe it's one of her finest.
Not only do I sincerely enjoy her prose and expressive style, but I also love the fact that every time I read a Jodi Picoult book I learn something new and interesting.
The fact that there was a multitude of unconnected characters introduced in the first part of the book didn’t confuse me at all, on the contrary, it intrigued me.
Also I found the ghost angle of the story totally believable.My favorite character was definitely the 103 year-old Abenaki, Az Thompson.I will highly recommend this book to all my friends.
Again, another book for me where you have to suspend your belief now and again.
But a good story if you are easily amused.
Ross Wakeman has repeatedly puts his life at risk after the love of his life dies.
When nothing works, and a job with a paranormal investigator brings him no closer to his former love, he moves in with his sister.
As chance would have it, strange phenomena are plaguing the town, and Ross is drawn into an investigation of a piece of land that local Abenaki Indians claim is an old burial ground.
Ross Wakeman became a ghost hunter after he lost his fiancee, Aimee, in a terrible car accident.
He has never really believed in the paranormal, but he forces himself to take on the career so that one day he could be reunited with his lost love.
Her appearance causes Ross to discover startling revelations about Comtosook and its' ancestry.Jodi Picoult is a talented author.
I learned a lot about ghosts, and the most interesting nonfiction fact that I got from the book was the eugenics project going on in Vermont around 1930's.
Still, I would highly recommend Second Glance, especially to Science Fiction and Paranormal Fiction lovers.
If you're going to write a book from the perspective of a dozen different characters, then you better do it right.Unfortunately, Picoult doesn't do it right.
I only got as far as Chapter 3 or so and couldn't stomach the obviously dated speech and unconvincing behaviors of the characters.
There was nothing about this book that felt believable, I just kept thinking "Who would do that?
Who would say that?!" No one.I actually really liked My Sister's Keeper so I was really disappointed to trudge through brief paragraphs of characters that I didn't give a damn about.
Who the hell is Winks again?
Who the hell is Stuart?
This was another one of my attempts at listening to a book on cd while in the car.
Unfortunately this one was a flop.
I'm used to Jodi Picoult using lots of characters in her stories because I have read two of her other books.
However this one just never seemed to gel in anyway.
I have to admit that I only made it about 2 chapters into the book before I completely lost interest.
The characters did not seem like that needed to have any connection to each other what so ever.
I felt like I needed to make a character list just to keep everyone straight.
Not my favorite Picoult novel, but there's some good stuff here. I wasn't familiar with the whole eugenics thing prior to reading this book. Appalling! Based on real events. I liked this line: "Men...were like an accessory, like a belt or purse or shoes. You didn't necessarily need one to complete your look. Granted, if you walked around barefoot you got a few odd stares every now and then, but the important parts of you were covered."
Jodi Picoults really quality writing kept me interested throughout my reading of this novel.
Of course the novel having a bit of paranormal, a glimpse in earlier times, and a fascinating look in XP and all this functioning together made the story outstanding--at least in my eyes.
I could figure out where the novel was going but the lush expressive writing made up for this.I guess my only critic would be that the names of the characters often had the same initial, making me have to re-read certain parts so that I could be certain that I had the right person.
This is another fantastic novel from Jodi Picoult. I've read most of her novels and this is one of her best ones. The story was beautifully written and kept me enthralled and captivated the whole way through with its tale of ghosts, murder and family scandal. It wasn't what I was expecting and totally different from her usual books but I loved it. There were so many twists and turns in the novel that I was never sure what was going to happen next. Five stars.
We meet Ross, a young man devastated by the death of his fiancé, who has attempted suicide numerous times in hopes of reuniting with her.
He takes a job with a company that investigates paranormal activities, hoping to be able to reconnect with her.
The company is hired to investigate a controversial building site, which the local Abenaki Indians claim is an indian burial ground.
The owner of the land, ironically, is an old, somewhat senile man who was involved in a 1930s eugenics project that nearly eradicated the Abenaki Indians.
Read quite some time ago but loved this book in fact love all of Jodi Picoult books.
Todays review, is on the book that competes with Keeping Faith in my eyes for the best Picoult book ever, and that’s saying a lot.
I picked this up because the premise promised me a ghost story, and though I was sceptical at first (‘cause let’s face it, no one really writes a proper ghost story) I succumbed to the tale and couldn’t believe I had finally gotten a ghost story worthy of my time and love.
Our story starts with Ross Wakeman, a man who lost the love of his life, and is desperately spending the rest of what he has left to follow her into the world he can’t be a part of.
I liked this enough to possibly read another of JP's books. I think it could have been cut down by 100 pages. The writing was good, but at times excessively flowery. Also, I'll never understand how people can meet at the top of a page and be absolutely in love by the time you reach the bottom.
**3.5 stars**What a weird book! The plot was all over the place, with really strange coincidences. I can't even say I liked the main characters. Both Ross and Lia were suicidal so it was very difficult to empathize with them, specially because they kept hurting those they loved. The most interesting aspect of the story was delving into the Eugenics movement in 1930s Vermont. It was horrifying how these people used this pseudo science with such flawed research to get rid of people that were different from them. I'm so glad I was born in more enlightened times.
I think therefore that my scepticism was the reason that I was long way into the story nearly two hundred pages before I really began to appreciate properly what was going on.
Once again Jodi Picoult impresses me with her choice of a controversial subject to base a novel on.Ghosts, Abenaki Indians and Eugenics Research link the characters and the periods of 1932 and 2001 together in an excellent example of mixing fact and fiction and the past with the present.There are so many twists and turns in the story that I was never quite sure what was going to happen next.
As much as Picoult is a storyteller...she is also very good at writing history.
She was able to intertwine so many important subjects into this book- that I had to remind myself that I was really only reading one novel and not twelve short stories.
There are so many characters in this book that I had a difficult time keeping up--but eventually they all intertwine for a purpose.
I especially love to read her acknowledgments and notes at the end of her writing- because she has a way of explaining or pulling together things that are happening in the real world to what happened in the book.
There is twisting, winding plot- there is a ghost story, love stories of different kinds of love, an exposure of a dark secret in American History, and since it is a Picoult novel it touches on a sensitive topic- this time stem cell research.
Picoult listed all the research information/websites at the end of the novel, so while you are thinking I hope she made this up, it is sadly tree.
I used to read a lot of mystery novels, specially those which are plot dependent, when I was a kid so maybe that caused me to treat any given dates and little details as CLUES on which the mystery can turn, to always try to guess what could possibly happen. And I tend to do the math instinctively of ages and dates. Its hard to stop that terrierlike reading mode. This book did not survive the terrier attack, way the plot turns just does not work with the dates and ages given. Maybe it was a bug i
I used to read a lot of mystery novels, specially those which are plot dependent, when I was a kid so maybe that caused me to treat any given dates and little details as CLUES on which the mystery can turn, to always try to guess what could possibly happen.
This book did not survive the terrier attack, way the plot turns just does not work with the dates and ages given.
Maybe it was a bug in reworking an old abandoned draft, but my feeling was that is was more a symptom, that the author just did not think it that important, that the focus is to put as much possible emotional drama and tension into some hot topic she researched and wants to write about.
I was so torn with this.
I am an enormous Jodi Picoult fan - she is the reason I have such a love for books, so I wanted to love this like I love all of her books.
Sadly, I just didn't.
The first flaw for me was the huge amount of characters introduced so early on - and add to the fact that they are all in some way linked, I just couldn't keep up.
And then, the storyline.
Far fetched, complicated, over the top and way too intricate.
A shame but by no means a reflection on Picoult.
Absolutely amazing. Bold and determined characters all throughout.
