https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25733829-memories
Memories from Moscow to the black Sea is an account of the author Teffi's journey from Moscow to Ukraine 1918, in the immediate aftermath of the Russian Revolution.
I purchased a hardback copy of this book on a recent shopping trip and was so disappointed that I didn't connect with the author's account of her escape from Russia as the Bolsheviks were taking over that country.
The story didn't come across with any emotion for me and I struggled through to the end but could have left this one to one side after 100 pages.However other readers may enjoy the sense of humor in this book and while it's an easy read I am afraid this was just an ok book for me.
This is the account of that journey.Teffi is able to connect what seem like small details to far greater meaning.
Another element I found fascinating is her description of some of the Orthodox holy sites that she visits to say goodbye on her way through Russia and Ukraine.
Her descriptions keep them alive.Another book I had in my pile started in Moscow in 1922, A Gentleman in Moscow.
I did read it immediately after the Teffi but it lacked the realism and insight that this older text provides.
Stay tuned for the upcoming episode of the Reading Envy podcast, where I discuss Teffi with Ruth.
Before a Map of Russia, by TeffiIntroduction, by Edythe Haber--Memories: From Moscow to the Black SeaMap of Teffi's JourneyAppendix: The Last BreakfastTranslator's NoteFurther ReadingNotes
Teffi was the pen name of Nadezhda Lokhvitskaya, a famous Russian poet, song writer, playwright and satirist caught in the middle of the Bolshevik Revolution when people were executed by Reds and Whites for no other reason than they were in the wrong place at the wrong time.This is Teffi's account of her escape, tip toeing between executions, bribery, famine and disease, from Moscow, to Kiev and then on to Novorossiisk and Constantinople.The quick witted Teffi has the unsinkable black humor of a plague survivor.
Only Teffi's memoir is packed with the real sort of people who put fiction to shame.
Of course, Paris was full of Russian émigrés and this book is wistful, whimsical and nostalgic in turn; obviously aimed at a readership of those who, like her, had been forced to flee.Although this is full of humour, there is also a real sense of fear as Teffi progresses across the country.
There are rumours that her group of actors and writers will be handed over to the Bolsheviks, endless times when trains are halted and Teffi and the others are taken off, unsure of whether they will be asked to entertain those who have stopped them, or possibly dumped in a ditch somewhere and countless small privations and discomfort.
The armchairs were exhausted, worn out by life, and during the night they liked to stretch out their arms, legs, and backs, creaking and groaning...I looked around and said to myself, for no apparent reason, “I wonder which of the doctors round here specializes in Spanish influenza."Her dry wit and stoicism, coexisting with little of-their-time snobberies, suggest a personality who would have fitted in well with Waugh, Wodehouse and Nancy Mitford.Literary autobiographical accounts of dealing with bureaucracy in incipient dictatorships don't usually read like this, all arch cultural references, that very "U" distaste for boredom, and matter of fact restraint as if all this was as normal as the ropes on stands that shape queues in banks :A languid lady with a Cléo de Mérode hairdo adorned with a shabby copper band and liberally sprinkled with dandruff grants me permission to go on a reading tour.
BOTWhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b07bb89zDescription: Teffi was a famous Russian writer in the early 1900's, forced to flee her country.
Unrest and anxiety in Moscow as the Bolsheviks gather, but a 'reading tour' of Ukraine offers Teffi and other artists a way out.
Reader Tracy-Ann ObermanOn the train to Kiev, away from the Bolsheviks.
And Gooskin the indefatigable organiser gets the author and others out of various scrapes.Arrival in Kiev, with its sunny days and familiar faces, but a scourge of White Russians is approaching.
For years I looked through Russian emigre journals from Paris and Harbin and San Francisco, able to read about 30% of it, enough to know that everyone loved Teffi.
A wily impresario named Gooskin promised her part of the take if she'd give readings in Ukraine, nominally independent, and full of people in need of entertainment.
Of course, the London Hotel was requisitioned for troops, the International was a target for looting the rich.No one really knows how many refugees fled during the Russian Revolution and Civil War, maybe one million, maybe three.
And he will survive.Now I know why everyone loves Teffi.
This is just beautiful. Absolutely beautiful in places. This is Teffi's account of her journey out of Revolutionary Russia. It has beauty, humor, and sorrow.Thank NYRB Book Club, thank you.(May 2016 selection)
These are the memories of a very talented woman who happened to live in the wrong place (Russia) at the wrong time (the Bolshevik Revolution).
Going by the pen name "Teffi," Nadezhda Lokhvitskaya sympathizes with the revolutionists in the waning days of Czarist Russia, but we all know how principled movements can quickly degenerate into mayhem thanks to the vacuum created when power topples.
On a ship, she writes, "I close my eyes and gaze into the transparent green water far beneath me...A merry shoal of tiny fish is swimming by.
A school of tiny fish.
And would their schools learn from reading Teffi's quote?
Russian authors often produce works of darkness and depression.
Teffi's book of her journey escaping the Bolsheviks during the Russian Civil War is depressing at times but it is also unusual in her way of seeing humour in the events around her.
The book is a kind of journal with some reminisces of her life, her phobias and her dreams of returning to Moscow.
It is an unusual book from Russia in that it presents a very personal story from an intelligent, witty woman with a love of life, who recognises her world and country has gone and her fears have been realised.
The book covers a very short and precise period of her life, and of world history, 1918-1919, when she fled Moscow in during the Russian Civil War. Teffi left Moscow, headed into Ukraine (small towns, then Kiev, then Odessa), then traveled across the Black Sea to Novorossiisk and Yekaterinodar, before leaving the former Russian empire for Constantinople.Along the way Teffi experiences rapid changes of fortune.
Then it would bend down and vanish." (209) I don't know if this weird theme is something Teffi drew on elsewhere.As a student of WWI and Russia I learned a great deal.
This was a beautiful & captivating book! It was amazing to see how she could convey the desperation of the situation in Russia but at the same time touch my heart and also make me laugh. Amazing!I can't resist including a quote from the book which seems very relevant during this U.S. Election year "Oh little fish, little fish, can you trust this leader of yours? Are you sure your foremost philosopher-fish is not simply a fool?"
What a wonderful book! Beautiful writing and in particular wonderful humor and lightness -poetry really- to describe the incredible hardships of refugees running from Soviet bolcheviks. Great spirit!

They’re in the firewood.”After I had been there about three days, someone quite large got caught in the trap and began letting out goat-like cries.And of the second:I can’t say that the opal brought me any specific misfortune.
I thought that, like Mephistopheles, it needed to trace its steps, to go back the same way it had come - and the sooner the better.
Wherever he went, Voloshin was using the hum - or boom - of his verse to rescue someone whose life was endangered.In a manner that reminded me of Bulgakov’s The White Guard, Teffi describes the danger and mayhem of the Civil War via a narrow account of its personal impact.
Teffi arrived in Kiev at the end of 1918, and within weeks, Germans surrendered the city to the army of Ukrainian nationalists led by Petlyura.
Ditching Gooskin, who acts too sketchy, Teffi takes the train to Odessa.
Odessa was then under the French rule, and as Bolsheviks approached from the north, the French evacuated by the Black Sea. Teffi boards a steamer that, without a working engine, lolls at anchor outside the harbor while an engineer from among the passengers tries to fix it.
“Many passengers took fright,” Teffi reports, “to them, ‘in reverse’ meant going back to Odessa.” read the rest of my review: http://www.thecommononline.org/review...
Four stars for Teffi and one to Robert Chandler for his excellent translation of this marvelous memoir. A witty journalist, poet and playwright, Teffi muses here on her journey through war and revolution-torn Russia. It's an elegy - she never went back - but with her sharp eye for the telling detail, she gives her story the immediacy of a screenplay. The evanescence of life, the inevitability of death, the simple human desire for comfort in the face of both: Teffi nails it with heart and humor.
Absolutely wonderful. Twainishly funny a la Innocents Abroad, but with a melancholy and finally a profundity that feels like an authentic bottling of what it was like to live in and flee from the dying Russian Empire. I was pulled right through from cover to cover in one sitting. Yet again grateful to NYRBC for bringing out great overlooked lit in translation.
Con gli occhi spalancati al punto di lasciarci penetrare il freddo, io guardo. E non me ne vado. Ho tradito il mio voto e mi sono voltata a guardare. Ed ecco, come la moglie di Lot, mi sono raggelata, sono diventata di sasso, per i secoli dei secoli, e continuavo a vedere come piano piano si allontanava da me la mia terra. Solo chi è costretto ad abbandonare i luoghi natii sa quanto siano vere queste immagini.L'autrice, commediografa umoristica che era stata molto nota nella Russia bianca e in s
Solo chi è costretto ad abbandonare i luoghi natii sa quanto siano vere queste immagini.L'autrice, commediografa umoristica che era stata molto nota nella Russia bianca e in seguito fra gli emigrati russi a Parigi, racconta la sua fuga dalla rivoluzione bolscevica che la portò dapprima a Mosca, poi a Kiev, a Odessa, Sebastopoli, Novorossijk ed infine a Costantinopoli.
Da Costantinopoli, finalmente al sicuro, potrà andare a Parigi dove vivrà senza più fare ritorno nella sua amata Russia.Ho molto apprezzato lo stile ironico, quasi distaccato con cui Teffi è brillantemente riuscita a narrare situazioni tragiche e drammatiche vestendole però di un humor davvero sorprendente.Una bella lettura che mi ha strappato più di un sorriso e persino qualche risata, oltre alla commozione.
In a wry, detailed account, a popular Russian actress/writer succinctly depicts the chaos and violence she witnessed in the aftermath of the Russian Revolution as she travelled in 1918 from Moscow to Kiev to perform her work. Events then took her to Odessa and Novorossiysk on the Black Sea and then finally to unplanned exile. The NYRB edition includes helpful background information and a map of Teffi’s travels.
From BBC Radio 4 - Book of the week:Teffi was a famous Russian writer in the early 1900's, forced to flee her country.
It is abridged for radio by Katrin Williams:1/5: Unrest and anxiety in Moscow as the Bolsheviks gather, but a 'reading tour' of Ukraine offers Teffi and other artists a way out.
Time to take the train..2/5: On the train to Kiev, away from the Bolsheviks.
And Gooskin the indefatigable organiser gets the author and others out of various scrapes.3/5: Arrival in Kiev, with its sunny days and familiar faces, but a scourge of White Russians is approaching.
Teffi was the pen name of Nadezhda Lokhvitskaya (1872-1952), a prolific Russian pre-revolutionary writer who went into exile in Paris, where she continued to write.
It’s an account of her last journey across Russia before escaping by boat to Istanbul.
But behind the humour she gives an unflinching portrait of the chaos and horror, the panic and brutality that was so typical of those tumultuous times of the Civil War. A collection of her short stories has recently been brought out by the wonderful Pushkin Press, and that together with this memoir will surely bring Teffi back to the position she should rightly hold as one of Russia’s pre-eminent writers.
"n this memoir-cum-travelogue, Teffi, an immensely popular early-twentieth-century Russian satirist, tells of her chance escape from the throes of revolution and war in her motherland.
It’s 1918 and Teffi and some fellow artists are whisked out of Moscow on the pretext of a traveling show by a couple of talented impresarios with the foresight to see that the farther they can get from the Bolsheviks, the better off they’ll all be.

As the book description says, "the book displays the brilliant style, keen eye, comic gift, and deep feeling that have made Teffi one of the most beloved of twentieth-century Russian writers.
" That is, most beloved in Russia because I don't think that most of the rest of the world ever heard of her.
Teffi has a great style, managing to say a lot with a few well-chosen words.
Her writing and fearlessness reminds me of Marie Vassiltchikov and her brilliant memoir Berlin Diaries: 1940-1945.
I wish Teffi was my friend.
She's an accomplished artist, a loyal friend, a witty but warm observer of profound changes to 1918's Russian society and politics, and a good sport.
Setting out for Odessa with a group of fellow artists and a couple smarmy impresarios, she rolls with the punches, of which there are many as the group is buffeted by Red and White Army shenanigans wherever they go.
Teffi clearly sees the absurdity of the power grab while sensitively noting its impacts on her loved ones and strangers alike.
Simply a harrowing and amazing tale - I've read quite a bit about various refugee situations through the early 20th century and this one was no different. Full of deceptions, harrowing escapes, and mischances Teffi recalls this long journey with so much realism to feel like you're traveling right beside her the entire way.
I could not put this down! What an amazing writer! I believe that the ability to find humor in a situation is a great strength when it comes to endurance, and one that the author clearly had, among others, including great insight. I ate this up.
An excellent memoir. The author was originally aligned with the Russian revolutionaries before 1918. When she saw the atrocities committed by the Bolsheviks, she left Russia. This is the story of her journey out of Russia. She ended up living in Paris but never lost her love for mother Russia.
