https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52397.Parable_of_the_Sower
YA dystopian fiction (but written decades before that term was coined.) I am embarrassed to say I had never read Octavia Butler before.
18-year-old Lauren Olamina lives with her family in a walled-off middle class neighborhood outside LA, but she knows that their little island of relative safety will not last.
When her neighborhood is finally breached and she is forced out into the harsh new world, this empathy is only one of her great challenges.
Reading this book, I felt a growing sense of claustrophobia, as if I were already trapped in Butler’s disintegrating vision of America.
So many apocalyptic books describe world changing events; but in Parable, it is shortages – gas, water, food, governmental collapse (or increasing ineffectualness) but some infrastructure remains.
The scenarios described in Parable, the extreme violence, the extreme fear and the absolute lack of choices are just so out of the realm of anything most people in the US experience while living in the US that it is hard to imagine, understand and relate to images like written in this book that we may read about in the news, blogs or in non-fiction books.
Not only has my first foray into Butler's literary landscapes altered that idea greatly but compounded my respect for Le Guin's masterful way of letting the didactic veins in a narrative segue neatly with the plot pulse so that when one turns over the last page, the fatal blow to the gut has already been delivered along with the crucial message.
As per the aphorisms of Lauren's 'Book of Earthseed' aka the new age Bible, God is change, and only by accepting change and embracing the notion of diversity can the welfare of the human race be a realizable prospect.
It's a strange thing reading a dystopian novel on public transportation.
There are many incidents in the book that were difficult to read, but I was too wound up in Lauren's story and had to keep going to find out what happened to her.There are actually a number of similarities between The Road and Parable of the Sower; so many that I can't help but wonder if McCarthy's book is in some way a response to this one.
McCarthy's novel got far more attention, but I think Butler actually paints the more accurate picture of humanity, for good and for bad.
This is a close-to-home dystopia, one which I found hard to dismiss as improbable.
The framework of this fictional universe is our own, moved forward in time to a barren future.Lauren is intent upon founding her own religion.
I was a little bit unhappy with this (central) aspect of the book: the ideas, and Lauren's writing, felt to me a lot less deep and meaningful than Lauren intended.But what was Octavia Butler's intention?
Did she intend these ideas, and Lauren's writings, to be full of meaning, resonance and depth?
I look forward to it and to finding out whether Lauren's ideas mature once put to the test.
In it Octavia Butler tells the story of Lauren Olamina, a young girl who holds the seed of a new religion: Earthseed.
Aside from the religious aspect, this book also presents us with a dystopian future, a future that is as alarming as it is a possibility that only seems to have increased in likelihood since the time this book was written in the late nineties.Lauren lives in a small community surrounded by walls.
The part of Lauren's life described in the book also isn't inspirational in the way Jesus' or Zlatan Ibrahimovic' is.
I have loved Octavia Butler since reading  Wild Seeds a couple of years ago, I went on to read  Kindred and the  Lilith's Brood trilogy which only solidified my love for this dear departed lady and all she stood for.Having said that, I initially felt a little disappointed with the first chapter of Parable of the Sower because the setting is rather mundane, not fantastical like the other Butler novels that I have read.
I was there with the characters, the only thing that matters is what is happening to them on the current page.Parable of the Sower is a dystopian novel set in what seems like a post-apocalypse America but there was never a single apocalyptic event, no nuclear war and blasted irradiated landscape.
Sometimes it seems as though there aren’t any other kind and yet I found myself thinking how beautiful that glint of water was through the trees."There is only one word to describe the world that Butler built in Parable of the Sower and that word isBRUTAL.I recently read a review of one of her other books, Kindred, in which the reviewer used the same word, and I was wondering if that really could be an appropriate description because, after all, a book is just words on a page right?
And I also felt as though some of the characters were introduced so quickly that I didn’t have time to get to know them the way I did with those introduced in the first half.But ultimately this is a great book, and another checkmark on my list of Octavia Butler reads!This review and other reviews of mine can be found on Book Nest!
events in general since I first read the book have certainly not reached anywhere close to what Butler predicts in this novel - (which is the United States falling into total economic collapse, with violent drug addicts and criminals preying on anyone weaker than themselves, citizens forming walled communities which are only temporary havens from the inevitable tide of violence, debt slavery growing, as rich corporations and exploiters from richer countries come in to use Americans as a disposable third-world workforce....) - but it seems more and more every day that this is a nation in decline.Most post-apocalyptic tales feature some gigantic catastrophe - a nuclear attack or an asteroid hitting the earth, etc...
Abandoning this book at about 30%. I just can't finish it. Feels too much like a young adult novel, which isn't necessarily a problem in and of itself - but dialogue is boring me. I am not a huge sci-fi/dystopia fan, so it really needs to grab me if I am going to read it. This one just isn't working for me personally. Not going to rate this one as a result. Too many other books waiting to be read!
Butler did do much better.)This might have been the must-read dystopia of the 90s.
Or readers can't see past the obvious shortcomings.Dystopias have been with us since 1984 and Brave New World, and Utopia's since Mores and even Plato's Timaeus.
If the solar array is broken, an alternate (probably low-voltage DC) electricity source may work.Three, if Butler could have gotten past her own social-racial memories, she would serve herself better.
This shortcoming is partly offset by Butler including credible characters who think Lauren's new faith is claptrap.Like Ender's Game: unnaturally bright, mature individual overcomes both enemies and friends to save the world (maybe).
What a fantastic book to finish off my reading month! A full 5 starts and possibly a new all time favorite.
Read this for my #endoftheworldbookclub. Such a bleak and horrible story, but incredibly compelling at the same time.
Butler invites us to speculate on realistic possibilities of (re)enslavement as wages fall, climate stability falters and corporate power sheds ever more fetters.Lauren's 'discovery' (as she feels it) and articulation of the religion she founds was extremely thought provoking for me as I tried to feel my way into it - this aspect of the book functioned as a kind of backdoor world-building that allowed deeper insight than other modes of description, supplementing Lauren's austere narration (which gave the book a young adult feel) but also something fresh and exciting in itself.
Race is a low key issue in Lauren's peaceful birth community and in the one she creates, but Butler makes clear that outside white supremacy is more or less as lumpily operative as it is today, and shows that corporate power and state corruption and disintegration exacerbate it.
For me, though, even while clearly central to the novel, the Earthseed religion (cult?) was one of the least interesting things about this book.Instead, I prefer how Butler shows the gradual descent into a world irrevocably and horrifically changed, a life that is unlivable by any standard and yet people live in it--and she shows us that 
It's the future, but not too far ahead that we can complacently think we'll avoid it, or that it doesn't apply to us (because in most dystopias, no matter how much we ask ourselves how we would manage to live in them, don't we simultaneously console ourselves by reassuring ourselves that we don't?).Butler drives the point home by creating a character - Bankole - who is us, the reader.
a very bad thing when people around her are being attacked, raped, and killed.But Lauren is anything but a fragile helpless character.
Lauren's father foresaw the coming collapse and tried to keep his family from being lured into company towns that were economic traps, but even he didn't foresee how bad things would really become.
Lauren discovers that slavery is real, and has been real and common, right here in the U.S., for quite some time.You might think it's a cynical and overly pessimistic view of the future, but if you're not among the privileged classes, it's not far from how many people live today.
I just skimmed a few other Goodreads reviews of Parable of the Sower and felt confused about why difficult subject matter seems to be a weakness to many readers.
Butler's clarity is a strength and perhaps a stylistic weakness, but mostly I think there's something great about directly addressing change and survival--noting the potential horrors but also the possibilities of change, of creation, of our responsibility to ourselves and each other.
Butler made that clear while maintaining the complexities of survival, and inspiring a lot of additional thought.
I get so excited when I realize how remarkable that is, particularly while reading, and that happened often during Parable of the Sower.
One of the best parts about being in a book club is that sometimes the picks would never be what you would have chosen for yourself.
My Litsy Goes Postal group has so far brought two books to my radar that I never would have picked up if left to my own devices.
I didn't LOVE either of them but at the same time, I loved I was challenged to reach beyond my reading comfort zone.
My Reactions:-The reading flow was choppy for me initially.
I really didn't get into the reading groove of this one until about chapter 6ish.
The story of survival was the highlight of the book for me.
I read this book is a perfect YA Dystopia.
One word for this book: believable.
(hide spoiler)]But as any good story, the important part is how the protagonists anticipate/react to the problems.
(hide spoiler)]The idea of Earthseed as fictitious philosopy/religion is another outstanding aspect of this novel.
A religion with an idea to spread the Earthseeds to stars and colonize other planets, are interesting.
The idea of Earthseed and how MC used the idea in her actions on POTS is what I expected when I was reading Siddharta.
I am glad I read this book, an unexpected gem.
Lauren then finds herself thrust into a new world she knows little about and must find her own way of viewing all it contains, without her father's guidance.I really liked how this managed to be religious without being overly preachy and the creation of Lauren's Earthseed beliefs was fascinating.
Lauren is very much an active agent of change and her new way of thinking could just be humanity's salvation.Whilst these concepts put forward some interesting points of discussion, I did find the plot initially a little slow building.
I also liked the way she varied her voice to reflect the different characters speaking.Lauren was a protagonist that rubbed me the wrong way at times (as she did those who knew her in this book).
At times, I had to remind myself that it wasn't truly the reality (although the way thing are going, this story seems like prophecy).
This is not the kind of book I will read often, because I like to read stories that take my mind off the ugliness of life, and that empower me by giving me hope and enjoyment.
Don't get me started at how sometimes it seemed to be "on" and other times "not."I can't even get into the problems I found with anyone sitting around and following a character her age while she decides to go forth and spread her religion she has made up that she calls Earthseed.The whole Earthseed thing didn't even fit since at one point Lauren's character was focused on being self reliant because she fears the walled neighborhoods she has lived in with her family is eventually going to be overrun.
Oh, this makes me think so much of Atwood’s The Handmaid's Tale, where you can really feel like the whole book scenario could easily come true.Of course this wouldn’t be Octavia Butler if there wasn’t some exploration of the power dynamic between people and groups of people as well.
Butler certainly makes the reader see the value of having a community—a chosen circle of people who both give & receive support.My only complaint might be that it is so United States focused, rather like Stephen King’s The Stand.
Kindle deal for the Earthseed complete series for $1.13!! 7/23/17https://www.amazon.com/Earthseed-Comp...
4.5 stars. A brilliantly written and extremely poignant story of a young girls struggle to find her way in a dystopian future. Highly recommended!!Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1995)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1995)
Same old shit, different faux dialectic.If you want to sacrifice plot and character and prose style to ideas, they better be goddamn good, not holier-than-thou sanity defining crazy as the ultimate sin five times a page until, of course, taking on the label as some "Ooh look at me!
Read 'Parable of the Sower' to your children, and they'll grow up to hoard and starve out and sacrifice on a global scale, just like the generation that sired the characters on its pages.There's no power switch when it comes to compromising your value of human life with imaginary systems like money and work and dead weight.
"A rapist scattered rape on a rapescape, and some rapes caused unending trauma, and other rapes caused unending despair, but still other rapes created Strong Female Protagonists, and they would never let any man take Advantage of Them Again." Mindnumbingly stupid and insulting to actual real assault victims everywhere.
Teh realism!
Teh schock valyue!
O look, a naked rape victim!
O look, now there's another rape victim!
O look, a 7 year-old naked rape victim!
You will probably go through this whole book fearing for me, which is I guess the point of all this atmosphere of sexual threat.
This book obviously did too, in case you hadn't noticed.
She takes things that are already affecting our cultural landscape and takes them just far enough to seem like an alarmingly realistic future.
It's repeatedly stated that it's a delusion in people's heads, and yet there are multiple references to how young children who have it and see a wounded person will themselves bleed.
I did appreciate how Butler looked at how this condition would affect power dynamics.I really enjoyed the exploration of how a religion could be started.
Religions are often attempts to both understand the natural phenomena we see, and to subtly instruct people in various ways to remain safe.
That's why I have, reluctantly, sadly, with a heavy heart, given my first ever Octavia Butler book 2 frowny stars.
Maybe I wasn’t devoting quite as much attention as I ought to have been to the details, but I honestly couldn’t tell you too terribly much about the world in this book.
and perhaps that’s realistic; likely this is the way the world ends: not with a bang, but with a trillion tiny thuds.
It frustrated me that Lauren’s “sharing” never became central to the plot, or to Earthseed.
It frustrated me that we didn’t see more of the world— what is the government saying about this?
Other world leaders?Blerg.
