https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10.Harry_Potter_Collection
Re-reading Harry Potter for the first time this christmas, and Im so excited!
Re-reading Harry Potter for the first time this christmas, and I´m so excited!
I do not own this spiffy box set of Harry Potter books, but no way was I going to sit down and input all 6 of them!!
Again (I'm a broken record) great characters and time-old literary themes, as well as just being a very enjoyable read.
(can't stand Gary Oldman.) Fantastic read for any age.
Some of my all-time favourite literary characters are from this series, like Dumbledore and Sirius Black.
The HP series is kind of like literary comfort food around here, if there's nothing else to read we'll just grab one and dive in.
I never got into them at the same time the world went into its "Harry Potter Rage", but I couldn't help but give then a once over before I judged those people.
Set mostly in a school that, dare I say, every person who read the books wished their parents had sent them when they were little, the story seems to captivate with mysterious spells, strange people, and all around "what happens next!?-ness).
And yet, the depth of the story is very obliging to what I really wanted in a book.
Great books-(and number 7!) I would only say that the plot is very similar to The Lord of the Rings( the ring has to be destroyed, so do the horcruxes ), as are some of the characters:Gimli ----> hagridDumbledore ----> gandalfAnyway, they are excellent books, very inspirational. A new world has been created!
Harry Potter is regarderd as one of the best and most influential pieces of fiction ever to be written. I have no choice but to agree. This series sparked my love for reading and fantasy, which I am every grateful for. A review of content and themes is completely unnecessary, as virtually the entire population of the United States of America is knowledgeable of that content. However, I will say one thing: if you do not read Harry Potter in your lifetime, then you have failed as a reader. I recommend this series to everyone.
AMAZING!
How good is this book? SO good I've read the whole series about 7 times! :) I love J.K. Rowling.
I listened to all them as audiobooks! I was sorry I had waited so long to "read" them at all.
Absolutely loved this story and these characters. My favorite was Goblet of Fire.
This morning, I was pondering what to read or listen to next. I thought of these books, which I devoured eons ago. I remembered how much I loved them. Having seven credits on Audible to play with, I thought that it would be nice to have this series in my collection. I'm in Canada, so the entire series is narrated by Jim Dale. It's wonderful, so far. I've given it five stars. :)
The world of Harry Potter is filled with things that just don't add up, at some point this floating pile just starts degrading the creative merits and prevents any further enhancement of the reader's world perception.
I'm not talking about credibility, obviously, but the painfully failing synergy between the fantastic elements.
The force that keeps together the discworld or the forgotten realms...
is simply absent here.
And THEN come the legion of fans who step up and try to fix this profoundly feable work.
I enjoyed the book for its worth but this "phenomenon" drives me up the wall.
Harry potter is hero, he have a brain and self confident every thing that he done.I also go to the Movie for Harry Potter.
This book is god's gift to readers !!! i dont need to write a review about this book for ppl to know about its greatness ....CLOSING STATEMENT :HARRY POTTER ROX !!!!
The book is the bomb
I have read and re-read the Harry Potter series more times than I can remember. The fun increased when I listened to the Audiobook read by Stephen Fry... that was something else entirely. Just epic.
#5The Harry Potter Series fall under the fantasy genre, and follows a young Mr. Harry Potter through the ages of 11-18 as he attempts to defeat Voldemort, the dark lord, and save both the wizarding and muggle world.I cannot remember when I first read the series, but I do remember when I stood in line with my older sister at a book store in order to purchase a copy of the last book in the series.
Thanks to Sarah I now know what all the hype is about.
I too understand Harry's struggles, his joys, his fears, his fits of courage and his moments of angst.
- true it was only being condensed and re-told for the purposes of understanding the movie but still I feel as though I got the jest).
Can Valkuzelibs good be enough to over come Bagentoo's evil?
So many questions left unanswered - I'm practically wetting myself thinking about how all this comes together in volume 9042!
I didn't expect to read all the books when i started but reading HP is like reliving potter magical world.
Really very very enjoying m glad that my frnd send me those pdfs even though i didn't ask.i will read cursed child ofcourse...
not in the pdf format but in the original book P.S.i got very emotional at end of sixth book ....when dumboldore dies😭😭😭
I think all the Harry Potter books are wonderful.
The love between friends, adopted family.
The strength, yet weaknesses of the characters are believable.
I learned about good vs evil, which I already knew about but you know what I mean.
Standing up for what you believe in no matter what.
Just because someone is different than you doesn't mean that they aren't special too.
That people can make a difference, no matter how small.
For anyone who says these books are not good, due to the characters being wizards and witches makes me so sad.
They are good people.
LOVE HARRY POTTER BOOKS!
I think I'm finally at the age where I feel a bit weird about Harry Potter, but aren't we all?
It's hard to write a 7-book series of gigantic epics about a teenage wizard and keep your fanbase at the same age.But whatever.
I doubt anyone who's read the first six books is going to ignore the last one and let some dickwad on the 6 o'clock news tell them how it ends.
Will Harry die?
I doubt it.
But maybe now that all the characters are 17 or whatever, we can get some spicier (read: softcore porn) romance scenes.
Let's not kid ourselves.sorry, that was really nasty.
OK...probably almost pointless to put a review of the Harry Potter books out here...but nonetheless.If you haven't read these books yet, you should.
I would say these are going to be one of the biggest pop culture icons of this part of the century.
What Star Wars was to those of us growing up in the 80s - Harry Potter is to those growing up in the 2000s.The books are quite cleverly written.
They're long - but very fast reads.
The books do get a bit darker as the series moves along...but you'll be so hooked after the first book you won't be able to put them down.
I remained skeptical & snobbish about this series for quite awhile, until my son wanted me to read the first book to him.
It hooked me, & I am now quite sad that the series is done.
But I'm glad the author went out on a high note.
Highlights: The Sorcerer's Stone, The Prisoner of Azkaban, & the Deathly Hallows were the best; 5 stars for those.
All, by the way, far outstrip their respective movies, but I must admit that when I read the books I see the characters as they appear in the flicks.
i love all of these books, my favorite is #4. i love the character development in each book, especially how rowling pin points the emotions of a child moving from childhood into their teenage years. i first read them because my students LOVED them and i wanted to use the literature in my teaching, but now i'm on my second time throught the series. i love them more this time around than the first.
So, I decided I should finally know about this Harry Potter thing that the rest of the world read/saw years ago! Some nights it kept me up and others I just felt compelled to keep reading so I could finally get the whole story arc. I'm still not a fantasy fan in general but I did like reading the books...I've even started the movies...one down, 6 to go?
The best series I have ever read.
Though it's become quite a "scene" thing to read, or to not read, it's beautifully written and original. I cannot wait for the last installment.
Classics, everyone, of all ages, should read these books
Don't get me wrong, series like The Hunger Games and Game of Thrones have a brilliant chaos that heartbreakingly convey the ugly of our world, but at the end of it all, when the villains are defeated, I'm not as satisfied because I don't know what type of peace or world the characters are returning to or are going to build.Another reason why Harry Potter is #1 is because of the world building.
I think there's a reason why Harry Potter is the only book series (that I know of) to have a theme park.
Hogwarts starts as a fictional setting but quickly becomes a home.Every review will probably tell you this but the heart of Harry Potter lies in the characters.
For me the only downfall to the series was the order of the phoenix, I found that book full of frustration and although I can say it's clever when an author makes you feel the exact feelings of the protagonist it weighed heavy on me while reading it.
I loved the way Rowling changed her writing style or maybe her style evolved naturally as Harry, Hermione and Ron grew older.
We are all made of the same essential stuff, it's just how we decide to use it that matters.I admire the authors bravery in making her characters as flawed as you and I.
As a kid the Harry Potter books were my life.
As you get older though and really start to look at the books, and more specifically what they're saying?
Ron is written as a gormless idiot.
The Harry/Ginny pairing was to an extent unnecessary, but I can see their appeal.
Ron/Hermoine on the other hand I can't.
The redemption of Snape was completely unjustified and I can't with Harry naming one of his kids after him, nor proclaiming Snape as one of the greatest men he's ever known.
