https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77566.Hyperion
I’m just reporting the news here, folks.) Realizing that they must have been chosen to make the journey for a reason, they take turns telling the stories of their connections to Hyperion and the Shrike as they make their way towards the Time Tombs.I struggled with this book at first because Simmons throws the readers into the deep end of the pool with little explanation of the universe he’s created, and I don’t do well with books that start like: “Captain Manly Squarejaw woke up on his Confederated star potato and drank a glass of strained purplepiss juice while checking his com unit thingie to get the lastest news on the crisis involving the Whogivesashitsus.“Fortunately, Simmons gets the plot up and moving quickly, and then uses the stories of each of the pilgrims to fill us in on the history and setting.
Also frustrating is the thematic trend of science fiction and fantasy writers to write a series, to which Simmons subscribes.
Certainly there are great series and books that are meant to be a part of a series, but as an artistic achievement and for literary significance, a novel should be able to be its own story, even if it is a part of a larger chronicle.That said, Hyperion is a fun, smart book.
Another fundamental aspect of a good science fiction book is the ability to illustrate a future setting.
WHAT THE SHRIKE! What in the world did I just read, and why didn't I read it sooner? This book is so superbly written and crafted—it's easily one of the best modern books I've read, one that excels in storytelling and writing!If I could give this book more than five stars, I definitely, definitely would. The scope of imagination, wordplay, and critical analysis of humankind is astounding. I do think that the "frame" structure of the story, in which each character's tale slowly unfurls the plot,
I do think that the "frame" structure of the story, in which each character's tale slowly unfurls the plot, is superbly done.
I don't know if I can contribute any more than what has already been said about this book, so here are some of my reactions for each tale.[MINOR SPOILERS FROM HERE ON END, though nothing that would devastate many expectations.
Even after finishing the book, I feel that the other stories don't match up to the urgency and suspense of the priest's tale.
The potty-mouthed, frat house humor of this story, especially after Kassad's nostalgic and passionate tale, was a refreshing change.
It’s heavily character based, and the only book I can honestly say is 100% both a novel, and a story collection.
Thankfully, it’s not quite at a Haruki Murakami level, and this doesn’t much happen anymore in the really well written stuff of the genre, but I’m more embarrassed for the author than anything else, award winning fiction like this is fairly written in stone for future generations to examine.I was torn whether or not to dig straight into The Fall of Hyperion after finishing this, but ultimately I decided not to just yet.
I think it’s time for a non-genre novel, and then I’ll dig back in when the time is right.
That being said, I can’t wait to come back to the world of Hyperion, and see what new terrors await these fantastic characters.
Deep in the shady sadness of a vale Far sunken from the healthy breath of morn.Hyperion...Imagine a universe where the Earth has been destroyed and humanity is spread out across hundreds of planets. Combine the artful poetry of John Keats with a science fiction retelling of the Canterbury Tales. Add tons of references to the myths and legends of the three Abrahamic religions, and what you have is Hyperion. A masterpiece of literature.Seven pilgrims come together aboard the treeship Yggdrasil to
A masterpiece of literature.Seven pilgrims come together aboard the treeship Yggdrasil to make a journey to the remote planet Hyperion, outside the authority and jurisdiction of the Hegemony of Man. Each and every one of them has been specifically chosen by the Church of Final Atonement to undertake a pilgrimage to the enigmatic creature known only as the Shrike.
Thus begins a quest to uncover the lost secrets hidden within the Valley of the Time Tombs, a place from which no pilgrim has ever come back alive.This book deserves to be hailed alongside the greatest works of science fiction.
These stories are, individually, mind-blowingly good - in concert, they are little short of breathtaking. This is science fiction at its very best, and its avoidance of simple answers satisfies me deeply. I can't wait to read the next book.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
On the eve of interstellar war between the Hegemony of Man and the barbarian Ousters over the fate of Hyperion, seven pilgrims embark on a journey to the Time Tombs and their mysterious protector, The Shrike, a three meter tall, four-armed monster covered with blades.
Only one or more of the pilgrims isn't what he appears to be...I first read Hyperion almost seven years ago as part of the The Hyperion Omnibus: Hyperion / The Fall of Hyperion.
Borrowing its structure from the Canterbury tales, Hyperion is a literary sf tour de force, encompassing much of what I love about reading in the first place.
I thought I would mirror both Chaucer's and Simmons' use of the frame story in my review:(The opening bit of Keats poetry)He enter’d, but he enter’d full of wrath; His flaming robes stream’d out beyond his heels, And gave a roar, as if of earthly fire,That scar’d away the meek ethereal Hours The Overarching FrameThis may be one of my favourite books, ever.
Come, come, commala Lord of Pain, come, commala.Story Within a Story # 2: "The Nine Words You Can't Say on Hyperion"The alcoholic satyr-like poet Martin Sileneus is the scene-stealer of this book, although his best line comes in Fall of Hyperion (in an abundance of caution I'll leave that comment to the review of the sequel).
I loved this sci fi classic, Hyperion and want to read the rest of the series now - especially with the massive cliffhanger at the end!A sort of Canterbury Tales in space, Simmons takes us 700 years in the future with a human race that fled the ineluctable implosion of planet earth in two groups - the Hegemony and the rebellious Ousters.
Simmons has published books in several genres including, sf, fantasy, horror, crime, and non-fiction.
I can not say that he excels in all of them because I have only read his sf and horror novels but it would not surprise me if he does.Hyperion is beautifully structured and skillfully built up from gradually introducing the reader to the universe of the book to taking the readers through the adventures of the seven protagonists.
This book encompasses several different styles or sf sub-genres including space opera, hard sf, soft sf, military sf, cyberpunk, horror, and even literary fiction, each story even manage to encompass multiple subgenres.
Intensely literary, highly imaginative, mostly capable of being understood without a B.A. in English or independent research, I survived a week with this novel much more than I enjoyed it.Set in the 28th century, Earth has been destroyed several hundred years ago when an artificial black hole ultimately gobbled up the planet in what is commonly known as the Big Mistake.
Other influences were only apparent to me through independent research: Teilhard de Chardin, John Muir, Norbert Wiener, Norse Mythology ...The first five tales held my attention and I did enjoy the way Simmons takes his characters across the galaxy, only to have them end up on Hyperion deeply embedded in the mysteries of the planet.
Instead we get a tale of incredible complexity, deep, brilliantly realized world building and a mature and intelligent exploration of morality, philosophy and what it means to be human with a ridiculous amount of allusions to the great works of literature ingrained throughout the story for good measure.
6 tales effortlessly segue between times, places and even genres but all contribute to our understanding of this world, an incredibly complex and layered vision of humanity hundreds of years in the future and to a gripping plot filled with danger and mystery.
On the world called Hyperion, a strange, frightening looking being lives, the Shrike, some hate it, others love, all fear, and many want to kill the creature, animal or machine, no one knows, in the valley of the Time Tombs, huge structures, ( some kind of time travel device, incomprehensible) , the evil thing kills without mercy, or feeling, but a cult evolves from this ruthless entity, the bizarre "church", has many shrines around the empire ...
If the whole thing is telling us about these people going to see The Shrike, fading out just before they do is like dropping Luke into the trench on the Death Star, and never letting us know what happens next.I understand that much of the resolution I currently find lacking is provided in [Book: Fall of Hyperion], but every book, even those that are part of a series, should provide an entirely satisfying experience to someone who reads them in isolation of the other volumes.
Sure it was an enjoyable bunch of stories and all, but I was reading them in the context of learning about the characters before the big showdown at the end of the book.
I guess that only happens in the next book.I also found the description of the settings overdone and a bit indulgent.
I liked the characters and their stories.
I'm not sure the first story made for a good introduction since in my mind it is the least interesting and felt the longest.
I'm keen to read the next in the series since the confrontation at the "end" of this book was what I was so looking forward to.
Allied to this leadership is an amorphous grouping of massively powerful AIs known as the Technocore.The major worlds of The Hegemony are linked with instantaneous travel portals called farcasters, allowing people and armies to step from one world to another, and for wonders such as the River Tethys, which flows through multiple different planets.
The Hegemony decides to send both a force and a group of pilgrims to Hyperion, several individuals who are drawn towards the world, their lives somehow linked to this strange, distant planet.Simmons apparently used the structure of Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales as his inspiration for the way he structured the stories that make up the threads of Hyperion’s scintillating narrative.
Todo esto lo averiguamos sin muchos problemas al principio y es entonces cuando llega el genio de Simmons y empieza a soltar pequeñas píldoras de información por aquí y por allá y antes de darte cuenta tu mente ha unido esos puntos reconstruyendo el universo de la obra.
Sin muchos aspavientos, Simmons logra superar con un sobresaliente el fallo que destroza muchas obras de ciencia ficción: crear un mundo en apariencia sencillo pero dotado de una enorme complejidad.
Algo así es difícil de lograr y más en la ciencia ficción, donde todos los conceptos suenan extraños y los términos parecen surrealistas.
“Hyperion” was an interesting book, but it’s difficult to convey what the story was about in a summary.
It was awesome to pick up on all the literary references throughout the plot, and I’ve always been impressed with authors who can present POV characters with such integral differences in perspective on complex issues such as religion and politics, and do so convincingly.
While interesting, it didn’t leave a lot of room for plot advancement, and in fact made most of the book read like a collection of prequel novellas leading up to the actual beginning of the story.Overall, I liked “Hyperion” but it didn’t land among my favorites.
It has been recommended to me a number of times, and seeing as I had a copy, I thought I'd see what all the fuss was about and read it.Did I enjoy it, yes, was it what i expected, no, not really.
As a book it is basically a scene setter for the sequels, yes a few things happen, but the majority of the book is the back story (and history) of the main characters in the book.Now this sounds a little boring, BUT, it is in fact a great way to start a wide-ranging space opera series.
The back history includes a huge amount of "world" (read Universe) building, including, both technology and the main players both good and bad.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
As such these stories became imprinted on my memory as the soundtrack to the happiest period in my life (so far).Of the six award winning novels that I had already read before I began my Locus Quest, four were written by the maestro, Dan Simmons.
But if you’ve found it to be a turn-off in the past, then take due warning: this may not be the series for you!but IF you cana)endure a bit of hard sci-fi jargon AND b)are willing to put in the effort to read part-two before you reach a conclusionTHEN – order a copy immediatelyAnd begin your own pilgrimage to meet The Shrike!You owe it to yourself.(happy hunting) After this I read: The Fall of Hyperion
Alas, another hard Science Fiction book that doesn't mesh well with me in audio format. I've actually been quite interested in this story, but I feel as though I'm zoning out of the audio book and missing important pieces of information. Going to retry in physical form, hopefully soon!
This may be my favourite of the stories.The Poet’s Tale -- “The Hyperion Cantos”: The telling of this story makes Martin Silenus one of the most fully realized characters in Sci-Fi. I believe in him.
The brilliance is in every frightening metaphor, every laugh-out-loud moment of comedic vulgarity, every molecule that makes up the Martin Silenus we come to know and love or hate.
The Consul’s Tale -- “Remembering Siri”: All that was left for Simmons to deliver was his tragic love story, and he nails it in the story of Siri and Merin.
I really did.Reading this book definitely wasn't easy.
If this wasn't a library book, I would definitely put it down, and read it again when I'm in a mood for reading this kind of book.The book is written in 'short stories' form, and I think that was my problem with it.
I didn't care what would happen to others.And one of the reasons that I didn't give up reading is that I hoped we would get at least some answers at the end.
It ended on a cliffhanger and not a single answer was given...
Whereas Chaucer's pilgrims generally do not tell their own stories, the focus in Hyperion is the tale of the teller.
And of course there's no proto-bourgeois Hoost in this non-novel to guide the proceedings, nor is there much in the way of humorous infighting between the tellers via their tales (cf.
Overall, the non-tale framing portions account for about a less than a fifth of the book; that's not sufficient to drive the narrative forward, though there's plenty of generic setting development in there--so, when the pages run out, it's kinda difficult to see the point.
6.0 stars. One of my ALL Time Favorite novels. This is easily on my list of top 5 GREATEST Science Fiction novels ever written. Superb combination of grand, "big idea" space opera with incredible characters and deeply emotional writing. A PERFECT NOVEL!!! HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1990)Winner: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1990)Nominee: Arthur C. Clarke Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1990)Nominee: British Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (1990) Voted to Locus "All Time Best" Science Fiction Novel (10th)
Well, this is definitely one of those cliffhanger ending books, as many people warned me.
close....
yet so far away.Anyhow.
The book was excellent, I loved the independent narratives and the writing style.
The allusions to classic poetry and literature were very fitting to the story line, and I think they'll only deepen with what I've read so far of The Fall of Hyperion.
Yes, I immediately went out and bought the next book in the Hyperion Cantos, since I HAD to know what was going to happen to the seven pilgrims next, Well played, Dan Simmons.
Well played.
Like its fascination with poetry might suggest, this novel is a piece of art.There are many themes addressed here, and a re-reading at some stage is likely in order.
It is a dark work, and disturbing.
There isn’t a lot of 'hard' science at work here, but there are some tidbits that keep the journey interesting.
On their pilgrimage they share their accounts of what brought them there.
There are times when the novel does read a bit like a short story collection, but there are common themes and threads tying everything together.
Hyperion won a number of awards, including the Hugo award for best novel.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The details of the technology or the scientific credibility in a SF Book are not the main flaw for SF writing. I am a computer scientist and I read the Hyperion Saga long ago, but the more persistent elements that these books left in my memory are not related to the quality of the scientific background:1 - The sole idea of the cruciform organism and its curse of endless life was already very attractive, but it failed miserably;
Humans now live on several planets, one of which is the planet Hyperion, where a creature called the Shrike lives near the Time Tombs, structures which move backwards through time.
This book mainly revolves around the stories of the pilgrims as they travel to the Time Tombs, describing their backgrounds and why they accepted the pilgrimage.
Dan Simmons does a great job of setting up the story and describing a scene.
I don't often like books of short stories, but this one worked.
"You have been chosen to return to Hyperion as a member of the Shrike Pilgrimage.”  This was a tough book to review. It is essentially a bunch of short stories interwoven by the connective tissue of a pilgrimage by a group of desperate people. Ordinarily, I hate reading short story collections. Alice Munro is about the only author whose short stories I'm willing to pick up. So it is probably fortunate I didn't know going in that this was Hyperion's structure cause I would have noped right out.A
It is essentially a bunch of short stories interwoven by the connective tissue of a pilgrimage by a group of desperate people.
Ordinarily, I hate reading short story collections.
Alice Munro is about the only author whose short stories I'm willing to pick up.
A few I would have loved to read as complete novels.
My only complaint was that the overarching story (and as a result all of the short stories) were incomplete.
It is an ambitious novel and immensely enjoyable.
I just wish it hadn't ended so incompletely.
