https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228539.Jay_s_Journal
Alden's mother, having heard about "Dr." Sparks and Go Ask Alice, entrusted Alden's journal to Beatrice, hoping Alden's story would heighten awareness of teen depression, which was not really recognized in the 1960's.
Instead, awareness of Satan worship was heightened, to the point that, once local people found out Jay's Journal was about Alden, Marcella Barrett and her family were vilified and hounded and shunned by her good Xtian neighbors and fellow church members.
Big surprise--this isn't in the journal either.Sparks said she "fleshed out" the story using interviews with Alden's friends and family members, an assertion Scott flatly contradicts.
To begin with, as with all Ms. Sparks' books, she did not "edit" the book; unless there happened to be some central office in Pueblo, Colorado or somewhere, teaching all the teenagers of the day to write in precisely the same voice with precisely the same stylistic tics, she wrote it herself, as any seventh-grader (as I was when I read this book) can glean from a three-second comparison of this one to Go Ask Alice.
As though the drug hysteria she spread in Go Ask Alice wasn't bad enough?This book may be good to read while drunk, but I wouldn't swear to it.
The following information is more interesting than the book itself."Two years later, his grieving parents contacted a psychologist in Provo, Dr. Beatrice Sparks, editor of the allegedly "real-life" journal 'Go Ask Alice,' who told them she would edit and publish Alden's journal as a warning to other teenagers suffering from depression.
It was later discovered that only 21 of the 212 journal entries were actually Alden's, and that the Satanic entries were from other teenagers Dr. Sparks had worked with, combined with things she had written herself.
The real Alden's journal had never even mentioned such things.
Your enjoyment of this book depends on your tolerance for reading laughably bad Satanic Panic literature written by underqualified therapists who misrepresent their credentials and exploit real life dead children in order to make a quick buck. My tolerance for that shit is zero.
I'd wanted to read this since I first heard about it--Go Ask Alice, now with more SATANISM!--but it was awful.
Sparks took a much sadder, more valuable story about depression and instead has the devil make him do it.It doesn't even have the vague readability/camp value of Go Ask Alice.
Especially sad is that I'm certain the editor/author really believes in occult powers and evil demons, and I know the book is presented to poor Mormon kids as fact.I think I'll just throw it away, unless one of you wants it.
Oh Beatrice, if only Go Ask Alice wasn't soooooo goooooood. But your "editing" of Jay's Journal, quite frankly, SUCKED ASS. Plus now I'm scared that just by having read the book I am also a devil worshipper, and I can't turn out the lights because of the little trolls Jay kept whining about are coming to take my soul too. I'm a little lost lamb. baaa.
The main chracter, Jay, WAS NOT ADDICTED TO DRUGS.Sure he was a user during some moments of his life, but he was not addicted.SO I am going to talk about some things that happened, o occures, or came up, or annoyed me from this book.
Tina and Debbie are some freaky girls who Jay happens to like for who-knows-what.
It's a very stupid reason to be annoyed, but it made me VERY annoyed.I am annoyed by how many times Jay says the word "neat" in his journal.
Because of this book, I really hate that word.
I read this when I was in high-school and remember being so engrossed in the story I could barely put it down. It's a favorite with many of my students (once they get past the initial girlfriend plot and into the second witchcraft one). I feel as though I need to read it again to update my initial reaction. Especially knowing that most of the story is fabricated....
Let me just tell you that this is the diary of a 15/16 year old boy who writes like this: "Tomorrow during lunch period Mom's going to pick me up and take me to the bank, then to pick up  my  car!
Green as a little fat toad and just as cute!" Now I don't know about you, but most boys I know would not get this excited about having a green Volkswagen Bug as their first car.
I expected Charles Manson type writing, not....not this:"Man, the sun is shining like it's just been let out of a dark cave, or is it me shining inside myself because I've come out.
Man, I'm old.It was about a Mormon kid (I recall that it never ever once specifically says he was Mormon, but man oh man, I sure seem to remember a bazillion references that made me think he was raised LDS) who falls into bad influences.
That would be rather impossible now, wouldn't it?)The book will make every Mormon teenager say "I will never do drugs and never skip church and never be bad and never skip scouts and never ever ever ever try Satan worship!!" They will be good and follow the prophet and go on a mission.You know, I was sending this book to D.I. in the morning, but now I kinda wanna re-read it.
An obvious work of fiction, Jay's Journal describes the downward spiral of a teenage drug addict/Satanist who descends into madness & finally kills himself.
Published in the late '70s, when an unfounded fear of Satanism was plaguing middle-class Americans, the book played off these concerns & became almost as successful as editor/Mormon youth counselor Beatrice Sparks' other "diary," Go Ask Alice.
The real Jay, Alden Barrett had committed suicide, but there's no evidence that he had ties to occult groups, suggesting that Sparks wrote the entries dealing with Satanism herself.
Of course, anyone who knows anything about drugs & teenagers will realize that most of the book was written by someone who doesn't.
Its description on the back of the book sounded interesting, if flamboyant: this is the journal of a boy who got in over his head with drugs and the occult before killing himself.
I half-jokingly described to my room mate on his way out to work, that the book in my hand was the product of some woman who was making a living by exploiting the pain and deaths of troubled youths.
Jay’s Journal is one of several heavy-handed adolescent cautionary tales by the questionably "Dr." Beatrice Sparks who purports to have encountered this factual information as part of her field work and to have edited and assembled it in order to benefit the reader.
The narrative’s single-minded focus on the occult’s seduction of the innocent and the glossing over of details that might titillate rather than revolt the audience causes Sparks to inadvertently reveal her sermonizing intentions and tends to leave the reader feeling dirty and manipulated as if she’s just watched one of those overly dramatic after-school specials from the 1980’s.
Enter the world of Jay, a 16 year old high school student who starts out with high ambitions- he is on the debate team and is asked to speak at countless events for his school.
We already know Jay doesn't make it out alive- that is clear from the back of the book.
Read Jay's Journal to find out, and enter Jay's nightmare.
This book may and will seem slow at the beginning, but it is definitely worth it to turn the page.
This is a must read for 8th grade and up- it will keep you thinking about it for months.
Jay is going through a lot and with all of this happening in his life it eventually drives him to kill himself.
I don't know where to begin on my opinion of this book.
I don't know if I should have read that.
While I was reading it I kept on questioning why it would ever be an approved book.
If you are reading it I would say try to take something different out of it.
Maybe the mother got the book out there to save lives rather than lose them.
The theme of this book would go along the lines of why life is important.
Though this was an interesting read, I found myself more often than not wishing that the book would hurry up and end. I guess this one just wasn't meant for me.
I wondered on multiple occasions while reading Jay’s Journal if it was true – if it was actually written by a teenager between ages 14 and 16-and-a-half.
Jay’s Journal is peppered with brilliant and poetic entries that a seasoned, professional writer would be proud to have written (in the vein of “Catcher in the Rye”).
In fact, at least half the journal sounds like what a typical teenager might write, thereby exposing the author’s youth, immaturity, and lack of wisdom.
The most powerful entries occur at the end of the journal, where he describes his interactions with an evil spirit named Raul who successfully invades Jay’s mind and body.
This purported journal presents as a first person account of a teenaged boy’s growing involvement with the occult, which leads to horrifying supernatural events and ultimately to the boy’s suicide.
In time, Jay becomes involved in a Satanic cattle mutilation, and is haunted by a demon doppelganger called “Raul” who wants to consume his soul.
It’s no surprise that so many critics of the book’s authenticity point to statements from the actual boy’s family and the fact that Beatrice Sparks has written other so-called diaries in the same adult style.
A journey, which was recorded in his personal diary and then edited by author, Beatrice Sparks.In the book "Jay’s Journal", the author tells the story of a teenage boy who suffers from depression, which leads him to drug abuse and the practice of witchcraft.
The plot of the story beginnings with him starting to use his new journal to write down this feelings and thoughts.
These are two important points because, Jay becomes interested in drugs and witchcraft because of his friends, which goes back to the theme.
I honestly hated this book so much that I would rate it 0.5 stars.
I will not tolerate this because that shows how much he wants everyone to feel sorry for him just because he made mistakes in his life.
Even if it is based on a true story, I lost patience and rated it 1 star.
I wasn't entertained and that's what books are suppose to do except this one didn't.
I want to yell at him and tell him GET A LIFE because he is suppose to be aware of his own actions and not just realize its the girls that ruined his life.
My favorite quote is at the very end when he says, "I don't want to be sad or lonely or depressed anymore, and I don't want to eat, drink, eliminate, breathe, talk, sleep, move, feel, or love anymore", because even though it is so sad to read, I could really feel how much Jay was struggling with his life, and I wish I could just help him.
This book is a journal, written by Jay himself, which I really enjoyed reading because it is very personal which makes it even more interesting.
This left me wondering about what parts of Jay’s life I didn’t know about.Plot:Jay’s Journal started out with the main character, Jay, being fourteen years old.
With Jay’s friends dead, Tina leaves Jay after he would no longer participate in dark magic anymore.
Jay ended up getting caught and his father sent him away to rehab where he soon became intrigued by a guy named Pete.That’s when he got into witchcraft and it became an interest of his.
Before Jay died, Tina left him for another guy while ignoring the fact that they were newly married.Setting:Jay’s Journal took place in Pleasant Grove, Utah.
I liked this book a lot.
It had a a lot of insight on Jay's life, while he experimented with witchcraft and drugs.
Along with Go Ask Alice, it really shows how drugs and other influences can affect your mind and relationships.
True story or not, I do think it was a great book overall and I am excited to read other books like this such as Lucy In The Sky. I recommend this book for all people who are curious to see the life of Jay, and hopefully everyone finishes the book with the realization of how bad influences can affect your life and other's around you.
i read this book with my teenage son. he was so into it, he read it in less than 3 hours and did not leave the couch until he was done. i really loved it as well- it was a great lesson for us all that a child does not tell you everything and that they can easily go down the wrong road even if they started off as happy children.
There are parts in this book that are very interesting and make you want to read more.
Then there are a few parts, or one part for me, they are disgusting and make you want to stop reading or skip a few pages.
The ending was sort of clever, on how they killed off Jay. He was so into witchcraft and the supernatural that he soon got taken over by it and was physically being controlled.
When it happened Jay was afraid and wanted it to all end because it was starting to get to his family and affecting them badly when they are around him.
I liked how the author wrote the protagonist's feelings and thoughts (maybe because the diary is real). At some points, the plot seemed very dramatic or slow but it gained speed immediately. It's interesting how the plot goes, I don't think its traditional (at least it doesn't feel like that).At some points, the book felt overdramatic or unrealistic that's the only thing I would criticize but I liked it overall.
These books are just kinda bleh to me. Please stay tuned for a review I promise I will catch up on my reviews this month don’t block me
Well that was pretty much atrocious.
I’ve recently read Jay’s Journal and it is fantastic.
It has an interesting story line and is very entertaining with lots of twists and turns.
The novel is not slow either, unlike other books that seem like you are reading endless pages of boring nonsense that’s unimportant or irrelevant.
Rather than having chapters or parts, Jay’s Journal is written as if you are reading someone's diary.
There is a lot of stuff that is not really suitable for younger kids, such as sex, drugs, suicide, the occult, etc.
I totally recommend this book so you should go read it.
My heart was shattered while I read everything this young man went through.
If anything I feel like this book needs to be read by parents and teenagers.
Jay was a bright young man with a bright future ahead of him who got mixed up with influences he shouldn't have.
Three great kids with their entire lives ahead of them, gone now because they got mixed up in some seriously dangerous stuff they couldn't possibly understand.
our kids need to know beyond a shadow of a doubt that no matter how much it hurts or disappoints we are here and they can always come to us.
