https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1609451.Change_of_Heart
First, she owes Stephen King part of her royalties from this book, because the first quarter or so is a shameless ripoff of THE GREEN MILE (what, she couldn't have picked a more obscure text?
Because, I mean, hardly ANYONE has read THE GREEN MILE, right?).
I just really hated the whole thing, with one small redeeming factor - the character of Maggie (clearly modeled on Picoult herself) was well-drawn, and presented as someone the reader would like to have as a friend, but even she collapsed when, naturally, her miserable life was saved by the love of a good man.
Although this wasn't my favorite book by Jodi Picoult, I still thought it was very good.
I wasn't really a fan, however, of the over-arching themes of this particular book.
This book capitalized on the controversial subject of capital punishment (see what I did there ?) and religion (two pretty heavy subjects, if you ask me).
I found the capital punishment theme interesting..
but I felt Picoult was a little too overzealous about the religious aspect, which could very well turn off a lot of readers, myself included.
Not by a long shot, but I still enjoyed different aspects of the book.
This is the fourth Jodi Picoult novel I've read and they all follow pretty much the same formula : A vunerable child/teenager.
And while Jodi uses a basic formula, her novels are anything but simple or predictable.
What makes me such a fan of Jodi's novels is that rather than use an omnipotent narrator, her stories are told from the point of view of the various characters.
Most people would never think of taking the side of an accused rapist, a school shooter, or a cop killer, but Jodi's characters are so fairly drawn, that's exactly what happens.
As a consequence, we the reader get taken along on that same ride.
“After all, how many of us had tried to forget something traumatic...only to find it printed on the back of our eyelids, tattooed on our tongues?” The book is narrated from the perspective of four characters: June, Michael, Lucius and Maggie. For each character, the chapter is written with a different font. The ending was not satisfying, I still have questions. However, was more interesting than I thought.
I knew before reading it that it dealt with religion (one of the many subject matters that Picoult handles with grace) but I had no idea how and to what surprising extent.
This book encompasses the following topics- the death penalty, guilt, forgiveness, religion, right and wrong, parent/child relationships, the legal world, the medical world and life in prison.
If it's happened to you, you know what it feels like.
Then, if you are like me, you are still left thinking and thinking and feeling amazed by the whole experience.This just might be my favorite of hers.
You know how when you start a book the evening before and then go to bed later thinking, "I cannot wait to wake up tomorrow and finish this book!" That is how I felt about this book last night.
This story!
Incredibly entertaining!
There is the theme of the issues around capital punishment, along with themes of religion and spirituality, and overall the biggest in my opinion: redemption and acceptance.
Just when you believe you can predict the story, Shay drops one heck of a bomb about what happened during shooting.
My short and simple overall: incredible and thought provoking!
All you notice is the one person who doesn't.""I imagine the touch of someone who loves you so much, he cannot bear to watch you sleep; and so you wake up with his hand on your heart.""...the sum of a man's life was not where he wound up but in the details that brought him there.""...faith, the only weapon in our arsenal to battle doubt.""They say you get over your grief, but you don't really, not ever.
But I knew what it was like to be the daughter.""Someone once told me that when you give birth to a daughter, you've just met the person whose hand you'll be holding the day you die.""Family's not a thing, it's a place...
A total disappointment considering Picoult is a great writer and does not need to borrow ideas from other writers. This was too much like "The Green Mile".
What if God is incarnate in each of us?
What if this life on Earth is both heaven and hell?
After I finished reading the book, I went for a walk to try to think these things through.
Isaiah "Shay" Thomas Bourne who said, "Everyone's got a little God in them and a little murder in them,too.
It's how your life turns out that makes you lean to one side or the other."Lucius who thought "Why would God choose to inhabit any of us?
if we were the ones who inhabited God?"Maggie who said "You know why I think we still execute people?

It's sad for me to have to give a Picoult book 1 star, but I was heartily disappointed with this read.
Picoult has definitely shot arrows at religion in the past, but this book went beyond that.
In the past, I was always able to say that it was fiction, not necessarily the author's viewpoint or something she was trying to make us believe in, but I don't know how you couldn't believe some of the notions in this book and spout off about it for such a lengthy tome.
I have read 13 of Picoult's 15 books, but I'm sincerely questioning whether I will read another.
I couldn't even finish this book!
I gave it 150 pages to get me hooked, and it just didn't...
It had way too much political crap in it - one of the main characters is a lawyer who works for the ACLU and is against the death penalty, so the author goes on about that...
All in all, I really just didn't like the book.
I wanted to finish it because I feel like once I start something I should finish it.
But I just couldn't.
150 pages later, I didn't mind sending this one back to the library.
I've heard Jodi Piccoult is like that though - totally hit or miss...
This ones a "miss"!
It is told from the viewpoints of 4 people: A Catholic priest, a mother who has lost her daughter and husband, a convicted murderer, and an ACLU lawyer.
A mother's 7 year old daughter and husband are killed and the man who was convicted of their murders is now on death row.
The novel follows what happens when the man who took away almost everything you have wants to help you keep the only thing you have left.There is a lot of religious elements in this book that kind of rubbed me the wrong way but it is just a fictional story and it was fun to read.
In the book Shay even talks about how they are exposed to hepatitis C during haircuts--that doesn't seem compatible with organ donation.The priest was a very weak character, able to be talked into sentencing a man to death, dropping his beloved religious beliefs, lying when convenient, and manipulating others for Shay's gain.
Picoult likes to be controversial but I think she was all over the place in this book and tried to address too many issues at once--death penalty, child abuse, foster care system, many, many religious issues, the terrible choice June had to make, the ACLU, on and on.
If you like to follow stories about things like images of Jesus Christ showing up on grilled cheese sandwiches or someone claiming to have seen a statue of Mary cry real tears, or those healer/dealer people that desperate suffering people flock to with their hearts full of hope and anticipation, then you'll probably like Change of Heart.
I'll just say I couldn't take the idea of the protagonist in this book for one more page.
I'm a Christian and I believe in the supernatural; however, I do not believe in the kind of stuff that Picoult wrote about in Keeping Faith and in Change of Heart as well.
I've hit the point of no return with reading Picoult's books.
Would you give up your vengeance against someone you hate if it meant saving someone you love? Would you want your dreams to come true if it meant granting your enemy's dying wish?This book got me wanting to read the whole thing in a day. I didn't want to put it down. Plus, it had some twists that I didn't expect. I also had my heart strings pulled for the "bad guy". However, the ending was not satisfying and I still have questions regarding characters and events. It just needed one more chapter to give me those answers.
Nobody knows when or where we will be disappear in this world or how far can our faith help us to conquer evil, it is ourselves who can choose what path we will take it's either the path of evil or the goodness that God gave us in the first place.Currently, how many religions do we have in the 21st century?
A fact that he kept everything in secret for the people he loves so much that he wanted to push his limits to salvage himself by offering himself especially his heart to the girl that justice had been victimize.Michael, a catholic priest and a lawyer in his early years that signed as one of the convector of Shay to sentence him to death and accusing him of 3 major crimes.
I had a really hard time getting into this book which is very unusual for me when I read any book written by Jodi Picoult.
I had a hard time connecting with it because I thought that it was just a little too far fethced.
There was a lot of talk of Shane Bourne being the messiah and all sorts of stuff and I thouhgt it was a little too closely related to Keeping Faith (which she did have charchters from in this book!).
Keeping Faith was much easier for me to believe than this was as far as the biblical aspect of the book goes.
We hear from Lucius his neighbour on the cell block, his Lawyer Maggie and his spiritual advisor Father Michael as a story of crime, faith and miracles unfolds.
Should she accept a heart for Claire that has come from the person on death row for the murder of her father and sister?
I thought it would be more of a “womans” read, with lots of emotional to-ing and fro-ing and not the prison/legal/faith drama that it did tend to veer towards.
All in all though, it was a thoroughly good read and I particularly enjoyed the allegorical aspect of it, the little part of me that loves to believe in miracles really warming to the story.
It seems that Jodi is getting a little too political in recent novels and spending too much time focusing on her own religious and political questions instead of an actual story.
a little of that stuff is essential to make a book smart and worth reading but I found myself wishing to be to the end of a chapter and hoping for a better one in this book.
The idea was great, but I could see where it was headed from the start and it seemed like she was copying from one of her previous books and "Green Mile." Worth reading but if you want something REALLY great from Jodi Picoult check out "My Sisters Keeper." And really any of her books are worth reading.
I actually *read* this book, despite the fact that for some reason the above title is listed as an MP3 type thing.I'm up and down with Jodi Picoult and this latest novel certainly reminded me why I sometimes can't stand her writing.
Let's be serious Jodi, you are just not meant to write about life on 'death row' in prison in a serious manner.
The characters were very one sided and if she was trying to make a point about religion, the death penalty, organ donation, the messiah, murder, (anything really), it fell very flat.
Welp,let me start by saying that I'm a huge Jodi Piccoult fan.
She's an excellent writer and has captures the voice of her characters beautifully.
But it appears that Piccoult has gone the way of mega popular writers that bang out books once a year for the sake of, well, banging out books once a year.
The formula she always uses (and that I've liked very much in her other novels) is still here, with a moral dilemma and child at the story's center.
But the Green Mile rip-off and contrived subplots aren't convincing, and the whole time I found myself saying "Hey, that's a story that's already been written".
One of the main characters is on death row about to be executed and not only is he not at all who he seems to be or who people think he is, he embodied what it means to sacrifice oneself wholly and completely for a greater good.
It's just so much harder to find that love in our hearts for people who have wronged us, but it is vital that we do.This novel is a powerful testament against the death penalty as well as being a gospel to the wonder of God's and the human spirit.
I don't know why I tortured myself by reading so many of her books when I didn't even like the first one I tried.
Maybe it's because I'm not a mother, but even if I were I doubt I'd be moved by all this sentimental sap about "carrying a child underneath your heart for nine months".
I've also noticed that Picoult mentions "a unique skill that mothers possess" in nearly all of her novels.
To be able to tell if a child has a fever by kissing their forehead.
Newsflash: anyone can lay their hand on a child's forehead and feel if they're over-hot or not.
Não são 4 estrelas cheias, porque achei que a fé foi tratada de forma demasiado exaustiva. Excepto isso, é um livro muito bom, que prende logo nas primeiras páginas e trata um tema bastante controverso de uma forma genial.
Durante toda uma leitura com a sensação de que o que lia não era desconhecido. Com pequenas diferenças o livro lembrou-me do filme "À espera de um milagre".
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pN1dD...
tw: racism, fat shaming, sexual assault  Would you give up your vengeance against someone you hate if it meant saving someone you love?  One of the best things about Jodi Picoult and why I fell in love with her books is because of her ability to write about topics that are morally grey. I live for the books that people shy away from. When  The Da Vinci Code  was released and it caused issues, I hopped aboard that hype train and haven't looked back. Jodi Picoult makes you think about your feeling
One of the best things about Jodi Picoult and why I fell in love with her books is because of her ability to write about topics that are morally grey.
Jodi Picoult makes you think about your feelings on topics that you normally wouldn't think about.
Of course, I don't know of a book about the death penalty that isn't complex.
One of the strongest things about this book and about Jodi Picoult's writing is the multiple POVs that come together to tell the story of Shay.
But it also gives insight to how some religious officials feel about the death penalty.
June é uma mulher que perdeu o marido e a filha mais velha num assassinato perpetrado por Shay Bourne, que está à beira de perder a filha mais nova por motivos de doença e que terá de decidir se aceitará o coração de Shay (salvando assim a vida de Claire) ou se o recusará (deixando assim que Claire morra); Michael foi um dos jurados que condenou Shay à morte, agora é padre, conselheiro espiritual de Shay e fará tudo ao seu alcance para ajudar Shay a doar o seu coração; Lucius é um condenado, doente com SIDA e a sua cela fica mesmo ao lado da de Shay e Maggie que é advogada de Shay, tem baixa auto-estima, mas é inteligente e muito determinada.Estava preparadíssima para odiar Shay, mas não fui capaz de o fazer.
Another mesmerizing read from Mrs. Jodi Picoult, who is now taking her rightful place among my favourite contemporary lady authors, Sandra Brown and Jojo Moyes. Moving on to her next book. *fangirl mode activated*
