https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/193755.The_Diving_Bell_and_the_Butterfly
Words flow like the images and emotions of poetry.
One thought leads to another.
The rambling mind touches like a butterfly, just long enough to draw the essence from a story, and then moves fluidly to another.
Jean-Dominique Bauby's body was an immobile weighty shell; the diving bell his perfect simile.
Yet in his head he roved the world and composed the words that would let us in.
Intent on looking for the cure to let him move again, he moves forward in his final words "We must keep looking.
I'll be off now", and six months later he was dead.
I know I will likely get flayed alive for rating this one so low, but I just can't see the worship behind it...First, let me say that the "writing" of the book by someone in such a state is an amazing accomplishment and I dare not take that away from him.
The entire book was dictated, letter by letter, by the blinking of his left eye.)That said, you would think a memoir like this would at least try to present you with a likeable character who has something to say about life.
And it is also thanks to this one eye that we have this first-hand account, dictated by Bauby from his hospital bed, recounting the details of his life in the wake of tragedy.Far from being restricted by his condition, Bauby unleashes the full force of his literary capabilities (which were quite estimable, considering that he was the editor of French Elle), leaving us with a wry, touching, and deeply affecting memoir that shines with descriptive flourishes and deep insights.
Prognosis: Man can be inspired and find beauty even at his own death bed.But there is a question even Bauby asks himself: Does all of this a novel make?No.
anecdote?)It is, however, testament of the prognosis which questions the central Meaning of Life question.
Bauby finds personal beauty, even if he cannot do anything with it but blink it in code to his nurse since he is absolutely paralyzed.
This is no beauty pertaining to a person trapped.
I feel some (but not complete) pity for Mr. Bauby.
Even though it did not answer the central What is Life About?
التواصل الانساني غاية في البساطة والجمال..... والصعوبة في بعض أحيانيوميات الصحفي جون دومينيك يمتزج فيها الحزن والسخرية والحنينكتبها بعد إصابته بمتلازمة المنحبس, وكأنه يُحرر أفكاره وذكرياته من سجن الجسدلكن الأجمل هي رغبته في التواصل والإحساس بالحياة برغم حالته المرضية
استطاع الكاتب التواصل من خلال "الملاك الحارس" كما أسماها، وهي أخصائية النطق التي ساعدته على التعبير عما يدور في ذهنه من خلال الرمش بعينه على لوحة الأحرف، كل حرف على حدة، حتى يشكل كلمة، ثم جملة، وهكذا..رواية بديعة تجلعنا نشعر بمعاناة أصحاب هذا المرض..
ومما رفع قيمة الرواية عندي بشكل أكبر أن عمتي - شفاها الله وخفف عنها - مصابة بمتلازمة المنحبس هذه، إذ تسلل المرض شيئا فشيئا صيف ٢٠١٣ من أطراف أصابع قدمها حتى وصل إلى رأسها، ثم إحدى عينيها..
فقرأت هذه الرواية بشكل عاطفي، فتسللت دمعتي عدة مرات أثناء قراءتي، لفرط ما يصوره القارئ من ألم وتعب..

**spoiler alert**In 1995, Jean-Dominique Bauby, the editor-in-chief of French Elle magazine, suffered a massive stroke to his brain stem which left him totally paralyzed and in a condition called locked-in syndrome.
He could only move his left eyelid.
For my part, I would have preferred to have died instantly than to have suffered what Mr. Bauby suffered.
He did write this book after all, but only by dictating it one letter at a time by blinking his left eyelid.
You can find inspiration in this book, you can find beauty; it just doesn't mask the tragedy and the suffering.
The Diving Bell and the ButterflyLocked-in-syndrome: totally paralyzed, unable to speak, but completely conscious.
I find it hard to imagine a condition that's worse than this one.
The writer of this memoir, suffered from this condition, and was only able to move one eye.
However, there's a similar memoir that is not as well known as this one, and which I thought was much better and more powerful : Only The Eyes Say Yes: A Love Story.
If you liked The Diving Bell and the Butterfly, I highly recommend Only the eyes say yes.
O carte scrisă literă cu literă, unde fiecare literă reprezintă o mișcare de pleoapă.
O singură pleoapă spune povestea unui om zidit în propriul trup, al cărui suflet evadează în imaginație și în amintiri.
Un suflet viu într-un trup (aproape) mort, afectat de locked-in syndrome.Recomand această carte tuturor celor care se simt locked-in.
Blocați în propriile vieți, incapabili să comunice cu cei din jur, care sunt la rândul lor prinși în capcană de propria existență, de propria rutină.
Pentru că autorul ne arată cum a continuat să trăiască și să simtă în ciuda nenorocirii care l-a lovit.
I couldn’t make these up.]Benefits Department: Do you want life insurance?Me: Yes!
Party at the funeral home!Benefits Department: Do you want supplement group variable universal life insurance?Me: I could be worth $2.5 million?
Benefits Department: Do you want life insurance for your child?Me: What a sick question.
Yes.Benefits Department: Do you want to enroll in the group short-term disability insurance?
Just from elevators!Benefits Department: [Pause] I need you to confirm “yes” or “no” for each type of insurance.Me: Yes. Yes.
Benefits Department: [Smug silence]Me: Yes. I would like a health care proxy.
This book involves 28 short stories, or you can say, pieces of memory from the former editor of French Elle magazine, Jean-Dominique Bauby, who was permanently paralyzed after a severe stroke. His only way of communication was by blinking his left eye and that was how he patiently spelled this book out. As he put it, and I firmly believed in him, that his main task was to   "compose the first of these bedridden travel notes so that I shall be ready when my publisher's emissary arrives to take my
This book involves 28 short stories, or you can say, pieces of memory from the former editor of French Elle magazine, Jean-Dominique Bauby, who was permanently paralyzed after a severe stroke.
His only way of communication was by blinking his left eye and that was how he patiently spelled this book out.
What's more, this book/his words made me realize how blissful I am because I can live out loud, do whatever I want, go wherever I desire, talk and hang out with friends/family whenever we're available...etc.
Lastly, The Diving Bell and the Butterfly is definitely a must-read in life and I highly recommend it to everyone.
‘ডাইভিং বেল’ হলো ডুবুরীদের সমুদরের গভীরে পাঠাবার বিশেষ এক বযবসথা। বাতাসকে কাজে লাগিয়ে অতযনত সরল এই যনতরটির বযবহার শুরু সমভবত অযারিসটটল এর সময়কাল থেকে। ছোটবেলায় গোসল করতে গেলে পরায়ই একটা খেলা খেলতাম। মগের ভেতর শুকনো গামছা দলা পাকিয়ে ভরে মগটিকে উপুড় করে বালতির পানিতে চাপ দিয়ে দিয়ে ভেতরে ঠেলতাম। মগের পুরোটাই পানির তলায় চলে গেলেও ভেতরের গামছায় পানির সপরশও লাগতোনা, কারণ মগের ভেতরের বাতাস পানিকে ভেতরে ঢুকতে দেয়না। এই একই কারযপরনালী বযবহার করেই ডাইভিং বেল তৈরী করা। ঘনটা আকৃতির নিচের দিকে খোলা এই যনতরতে

Perhaps the most powerful contrast in the movie, which I don't remember but may be depicted in the book, is the polar responses of the mother of his children, who visited him almost every week and loved him despite all the pain he'd caused her, and his lover just before his stroke, who never had the courage to visit him in his enfeebled state, but said she was always "with him" in spirit, though he was able to communicate to her, "chaque jour j'attends": each day I wait.
- هناك مقولة متداولة في معظم مجتمعاتنا "ما حدا مات ورجع خبّر"(بالفصحى: لم يمت احد ويعود لإخبارنا ما الذي وجده).. لكن في هذه الرواية فالموت جسدي مع تواجد الروح بداخله، والكاتب بعد هذا "الموت"عاد وأخبرنا برمش عينه الأيسر عما كان وعما تغير وعن الذي يحدث معه في "بذلة غوصه" في جسده المشلول الميت بالقوة والفعل.- النصوص مؤلمة، بعضها عادي، بعضها يظهر الجانب الثقافي المميز للكاتب.. لكن هذا الكتاب لا يمكن الحكم عليه كغيره لأنه تجربة حياتية فريدة من نوعها رغم الوضع المأساوي!..
في الحقيقة المشجع الأكبر ،هو الدار ،دار مسكيلياني، فمن يترجم لديهم غالبًا ترجمتهم بالفعل رائعة وتدهش
One of my best friends, a man who is a great deal more sensitive and open minded than I could ever hope to be asked me if i'd read it.
"But I like the Die Hard Quadrology, 300 and Wilbur Smith novels - where do you think this book is going to fit into my world view?
This book was interesting and easy to read although if you are feeling a bit depressed then I would suggest avoiding it.
this is quite an achievement .the writer a quadraplegic with locked in syndrome who died shortly after the publication of this book mangages to make himself into a totally unsympathetic character .i really disliked this book i suppose because it has gained such an good reputation .
he supposedly set up an organisation to support those with locked in syndrome , just as Bob Geldof has supposedly saved the world .the Guardian said " everyone in the country should own at least one copy " .
ما تختزله هذه الرواية القصيرة من الخيال والقصص يكاد يفوق صفحاتها المائة والعشرون ..... وكأن الألم والإحساس بالمفارقة هو من صنع الفارقرواية تفرغ منك ولا تفرغ منها يكاد هاجس السحر في طياتها ينبع بالفعل من كونها كتبت برمش العين اليسرى فالمفارق ليس له أداة تعبير غيرها ولا حيلة له سوى تلك الحكايا التي سوف ينسجها من ذكرى الماضي وخياله الأفاق..... لم تخلو صفحة من معلومة ثقافية تثري الخاطر.....رواية تستحق الثناءإضافة لمن أراد أن يشاهد الفلم وهو يستحق المشاهدة :the diving bell and the butterfly
For those who don't know, Jean-Dominique Bauby (the former editor-in-chief of French Elle) had a stroke in his mid 40s that left him with a body entirely paralyzed but a mind fully intact.
This is referred to as locked-in syndrome, a condition that, in the author's words, is "like a mind in a jar."The one part of his body that Bauby could move was his left eyelid.
As a special alphabet was dictated to him, Bauby blinked when he heard the letter he wanted to convey.
This in and of itself makes me want to give his book a 5 star rating, as the fact it is even in existence is extraordinary.
A remarkable story of a remarkable man, so full of life one minute and reduced to movement in one eye the next, a haunting, harrowing look inside the mind of a person with locked-in syndrome you would think this would end up as a rant of anger and "why did this happen to me", but his dignified manner and spirit was truly inspirational and caught me out at just how uplifting it would turn out to be, although of course it still remained very moving.
Two days after the book was published, Bauby was to died of pneumonia, but this is a lasting tribute that is definitely worth reading.
موضوع خیلی جالبی داشت و وقتی فکر میکردی که واقعی هست و خب تعمیم میدادیاش به آدمهای دیگه غمگین میشد. اما خیلی از نظر ادبی جذاب نبود برای من ولی زیباییهای خاص خودش رو هم داشت. ماجرا و خاطرات فردی که فلج شده و توی بیمارستان هست. سردبیر مجلهای درباره فشن در فرانسه که حالا توی بیمارستان افتاده و از طریق یک همراه و فقط با پلک زدن این کتاب رو دیکته کرده. خودندش ولی لازمه. بعدش فکر میکنی که چقد خوشبختی که سالمی و با دیدگاه فردی توی اون موقعیت آشنا میشی.
موضوع خیلی جالبی داشت و وقتی فکر می‌کردی که واقعی هست و خب تعمیم می‌دادی‌اش به آدم‌های دیگه غمگین می‌شد. اما خیلی از نظر ادبی جذاب نبود برای من ولی زیبایی‌های خاص خودش رو هم داشت. ماجرا و خاطرات فردی که فلج شده و توی بیمارستان هست. سردبیر مجله‌ای درباره فشن در فرانسه که حالا توی بیمارستان افتاده و از طریق یک همراه و فقط با پلک زدن این کتاب رو دیکته کرده. خودندش ولی لازمه. بعدش فکر می‌کنی که چقد خوشبختی که سالمی و با دیدگاه فردی توی اون موقعیت آشنا می‌شی.
This book was, for me, about the simple things we often overlook, mostly because we're too busy and don't take the time to actually look, but also because seeing takes a particular state of mind, it requires an openness, that is not always easy to come by.
Jean-Dominique definitely had the time to observe the world, and the immensity of the strength, courage and determination it took to put a fraction of those things onto paper is enough to make this a worthwhile read.
The book might seem pointless at times, but if you remember the state of Jean-Dominique you can appreciate why he might have chosen to write about those exact things.
كيف لا وهو من أصر على تأليف كتابه هذا بالكامل في عقله وأملاه حرفاً بحرف ( برمشة ) من عينه اليسرى وهي العضو الوحيد الذي لازال يمكنه التحكم فيه بعد إصابته بشلل كامل إثر جلطة !!؟ وكانت مساعدته ( كلود مندي بيل ) هي من أملا عليها الكتاب حيث كانت تتلو عليه الأحرف ويرمش عند الحرف المراد ..
لم بذلة الغوص والفراشة في عنوان الكتاب ؟ فهما يوجزان وضعه بالكامل ، بذلة الغوص إشارة لجسده المقيد تماماً والفراشة كانت مخيلته التي يحلق معها ما بين واقع ماض وخيال يحقق من خلاله مالم ولن يسمح له وضعه الحالي بتحقيقه الكتاب لا يمكن أن يطلق عليه رواية وإنما كان يصف وضعه بإسلوب الروائي المتمكن ومنها يعرج على ذكريات الماضي
ينقل الكتاب معاناة رجل فرنسي كان يعمل مديرا لتحرير مجلة شهيرة، أصيب الرجل بما يشبه الجلطة التي أدت إلى إصابة جميع جسده بالشلل ماعدا عينه اليسرى التي بقت سليمة ومكنته من التواصل مع الآخرين من خلال تحريك رمشه بطريقة خاصة. نقل الكاتب أفكاره وخواطره وآلامه وحتى سخريته من خلال إملاء الكلمات باستخدام رفة عينه وتحريك رموشه لتهجي حروف الكلمات بطريقة معقدة. الكتاب ممتع وحزين ولكن ينقصه الوضوح حيث وجدت نفسي مشتتا في كثير من الأحيان وغير قادر على فهم بعض النقاط المتعلقة بالثقافة الفرنسية التي كثيرا ما اشار لها الكاتب في أحيانا كثيرا.
E S A R I N T U L O M D P C F B V H G J Q Z Y X K WMore than an alphabet, it is a hit parade in which each letter is placed according to the frequency of its use in the French language.
Imagine being incapable of movement or speech and finding the only way to communicate is by blinking your left eye.
Jean-Dominique Bauby wrote The Diving Bell and The Butterfly, via a transcriber after suffering a major stroke, one blink at a time.
The only thing Bauby has left is his mind, so he uses it.
A Small Book with a Big Soul Jean-Dominique Bauby's "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly" is a small book composed of many big wonders.
Like "the invisible diving bell" that imprisons his body and the butterfly wings of memory and meditation that provide some relief, Bauby's prose floats back and forth between the severe and the sublime.
Despite Bauby's death two days after the french publication of his book, his voice will boom through these pages for many years to come.
This was a difficult read with regards to subject matter, but not when it comes to writing style. Jean-Dominique Bauby, the former editor of the French edition of “Elle” magazine, was paralyzed after a huge stroke. It’s amazing to me that he dictated this book letter by letter by blinking one eyelid, the only part of his body that wasn’t paralyzed. The fact that he managed to keep his brain engaged and alive given his situation is a miracle. This book is heartbreaking, insightful, and so uplifting. Here he is with his children before his stroke.

The power of this short memoir is that it exists.The Diving Bell and the Butterfly is a collection of short reflections and anecdotes by Jean-Dominique Bauby, the once-editor of the French Elle who at age forty-three suffered a massive stroke that left him completely paralyzed, unable to move or communicate save by blinking his left eye.Knowing this, every page of prose is a modern miracle.
It helps that the prose is really good.The experience of reading this, then, becomes a source of great cognitive dissonance: how could such keen and lively writing come from such immobility?
