https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327864.The_Impending_Crisis
Thus, it seemed like a good time to dust off my reading project, because its purpose is contextualizing the American Civil War. To me, the impropriety of the Confederate Battle Flag on state grounds is self evident.
It is a curated bookshelf that seeks to methodically cover how slavery impacted American history from the time of its founding, and set us on the course towards the Civil War. Thus far, I’ve read books covering slavery and the writing of the Constitution; the Missouri Compromise (which set the boundary between slave and free states); and the Nullification Crisis in South Carolina.
But for the sake of realism, it should be remembered that most human beings during these years went about their daily lives, preoccupied with their personal affairs, with no sense of impending disaster nor any fixation on the issue of slavery."p.145Potter also discusses the Lincoln-Douglas debates, and while doing so he tries to cut though the legend and misinterpretations that often are made about this event.
Lincoln, on the contrary, believed that slavery mattered, because he recognized the human affinity with blacks which made their plight a necessary."p354He explains the raid of Harper's Ferry and the antislavery crusader John Brown in his rather insane attempt to cause a slave rebellion.
A clear, rich history of the lead-up to the Civil War. Potter begins with the debate over the Wilmot Proviso and ends with the first shots at Fort Sumter, and clearly presents all of the economic, social and political aspects of the sectional conflict in between (with the most emphasis on the latter) All of Potter’s arguments are solidly backed up.Interestingly, Potter deals with the era as people saw it as the time, meaning he often covers issues that other historians skip over just because they don’t directly relate to the sectional crisis.
It took me a long time to read because each page contains a wealth of information, and it's not something you can just breeze through if you're truly interested in the subject.
I've been reading about the Civil War for almost 60 years now but have always been neglectful of material dealing with the 1850s.
At the end, I truly felt as if I had come to a much better understanding of how it all erupted into a civil war.
Perhaps the greatest lesson we could all learn is to never judge the past based on the present.

Reading Reconstruction: America's Unfinished Revolution 1863-1877 by Eric Foner has reminded me of all the gaps in my knowledge of this critical period in U.S. history. This looks like a splendid overview of key events in the years just before the war.
This is an outstanding history of the 13 years leading to the American Civil War. The focus is heavily on the political maneuvering on the part of congress and presidents, but social-cultural factors are attended to as well. I found it both brilliant and riveting. There are too many ways in which the polarization of the country in the 1850s have distressing parallels today, but these only add to the strong interest of this book.

A masterpiece of historical scholarship and beautiful writing...
Through a detailed political analysis, Potter traces how the United States stood united in nationalistic fervor in 1848 at the end of the Mexican-American War. The treaty resolving the war ironically unleashed latent sectional tension regarding how to govern the newly squired Mexican territory, which sent the United States on an arduous journey down a path that ended in Civil War. Although this transition may seem either obvious or somewhat overstated in hindsight, Potter deftly shows that this journey from nationalism to sectional war was a process – a slow erosion, rather than a sharp break – in the political institutions that bound the country together.
Good writing, terrible coverage, doesn't live up to the title.300 pages in and the totally myopic focus on Congressional political wrangling has just made this impossible to finish for me. Well written but with little discussion of culture and zero discussion of economics or everyday life. Despite the title, this is nothing close to a comprehensive account of the era. Read only as a supplement to other works.
A good history of the lead-up to the civil war. The writing was OK but not excellent. I would recommend among the books to read about this era.I was towards the end of Revolutions podcast’s season in the revolutions of 1848 while reading this book, so I found the connections in it between some people’s support for slavery and liberal revolution in European very interesting.
This is a little dry, and very specialized. But if you like history, and the civil war, this is very good. I quit page 448, after Lincoln was elected, as I want to learn more about the run up to the war. But I may go back and read the rest at some point.
This work was exceptional! If you truly want to understand the sectional conflict that started the Civil War you must read this book.
Too detailed!
There might be some things to disagree with Potter about or criticize, but this book has tremendous value overall. Tremendous for understanding the politics of that era.
Owe my brain. It’s good just dense and strictly political standpoint so I found it boring as hell. But I understand why it got the Pulitzer and would recommend to my diehard history fan.
I don't particularly like Potter's opinion on the events, but he does chronicle them very well.
A look at the critical decade or so in antebellum America. One very interesting thing to note about Potter is that he seemed to be partial towards the compromisers of that period.
Exceptional! I very much enjoyed this book. The time period between 1812 and the Civil War is supremely interesting if only for its relatively neglected status.
Maybe a consensus hasn’t formed in the popular mind, but an ambitious person with moral qualms takes up the challenge knowing that even if he stumbles it’s better than sitting on the couch eating popcorn.Better.
Let’s pretend that if we don’t like something it doesn’t exist.Except for some outspoken and at times incredibly naive and hypocritical abolitionists most people in the North just preferred not knowing too much about the ins and outs of slavery.
It’s a study of the American mind and soul in all its wonderful and horrible complexity.
They were just one of innumerable instances of fracturing nationhood, yet Potter consistently shows that secession was never a sure thing.He argues that the debate about slavery was always and everywhere a debate about slavery in the United States territories, both in those acquired under the Louisiana Purchase and in those conquered during the Mexican War. The irony here was that there was little hope for slavery to survive in the climes of any of those territories, and for both the pro- and anti- slavery sides the battle was largely symbolic.
He pointed out that hindsight was indeed 20/20 for future historians as the events towards the Civil War had already occurred so the facts could be smoothed, “Hindsight, the historian's chief asset and his main liability, has enabled all historical writers to know that the decade of the 1850's terminated in a great civil war" over (145).
Knowing that someone had to finish the manuscript took some credibility away from finished product, however who am I to judge a Pulitzer Prize winning piece of work by splitting hairs of who polished the diamond in the rough.Knowing the historical events that led up to the onslaught of the Civil War are just as important as knowing what occurred during the years 1861-1865.
Popularly sovereignty (Cass/Douglas) - people in the territories had the option to decide on slavery for themselves.
However both Whig and democratics imploded as national parties during 1850s such that Wilson in 1912 would be next to win North and South-Whigs imploded during Scott's campaign of 1852.
Unable to do so because northern Whigs (typically New Englanders) more strongly opposed to slavery than northern democrats-remaining northern Whig party broke up due to competing interests of antislavery and antiimmigtation.
This book is an extremely political take on the events leading up to the first shots of the Civil War starting with President Polk's all too successful imperialist grab for Mexican land in 1846-1847.
I felt it was so dry, abstract, and so narrow that it leaves a lot of gaping holes in other significant areas -- cultural history, economic trends at the time, military history, and gender/social history for a start.Consequently, I would not recommend this as your first reading on the historical time period here.
My final verdict -- a great resource for those of us interested in political antebellum history but definitely a bit too dense and dry at times.
David Potter's writing is clear, and he lays out the complexities of the sectional crisis in such a way that really puts slavery at the front and center of the conflict.
The thing I found most incredible about this period, and what Potter makes clear, is that the Southern political "victories" of the 1850's - the Compromise of 1850, the Kansas-Nebraska Act, the Dred Scott decision, were almost all symbolic, at best, and did more than anything else to precipitate conflict.
He's pretty clear that very few in the North really cared about African Americans as human beings, even while they detested slavery, and especially the slave-holding class.
The "Impending Crisis" is a terrific book about the political crisis that led to the Civil War beginning with the conclusion of Mexican-American War and ending at Fort Sumter.
This is not so much about America in general during that period like "Empire of Liberty" and "What Hath God Wrought" are, but strictly the political history of that time.
As could be imagined it is very dense and hence why I gave it three stars for "readability"; it is not casual reading and probably wouldn't be for somebody without a little familiarity with that period or the style of writing.
This is a great book, giving me many new insights into the period before the Civil war.
As a work focusing on political history however, it does shine, making one think deeply about Lincoln, especially as a foil to Stephen A Douglass.
Altogether, this is a great look at the party structure in american politics and how it unraveled from national interests to sectional ones, as events like the war with Mexico and Bleeding Kansas pushed the nation into an incompatible ideology.
I would recommend this to those wanting a challenging read in this period, but not everyone liking the subject will enjoy this work, since it is dated, but worthwhile nonetheless.
That was the basic balance sheet of the sectional conflict."Anyone that knows me knows that the Civil War has always been my favorite era of US history to read and teach.
You would think after teaching the topic for 12 years and reading plenty of books on the subject including "The Battle Cry of Freedom" that I know all there is to know about the war and its causes.
This book is THE definitive volume on the causes of the war covering 1848 to 1861.
Amazing book.
I can't believe it took me 12 years until I finally read this.
This presents mostly a legislative history of the US pre-Civil War, with very little space given to economic situation, cultural issues, etc.
Also, it almost exclusively focuses on the slavery issue, which is pretty accurate given the time period, but don't come here if you are looking for arguments on tariffs and the like.However, it is informative and well organized, plus it contains its fair share of insight.
Does a really good job of putting events and arguments in the context of their times, so that the true impact of events that seem meaningless today and arguments/beliefs that seem ridiculous today is felt.
One last thing, the book actually covers American history from 1846-1861.
