https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12187.Ada_or_Ardor

‘En jij?’ ‘Een ware ziggurat’.Een boek dat opent met een stamboom vol aristocratische Russische namen wekt de indruk dat een klassiek familie-epos je deel zal zijn.
Van en Ada Veen – volgens de stamboom neef en nicht – zijn prille tieners als ze zich tijdens een langoureuze zomer op het paradijselijke familielandgoed Ardis in een passionele idylle storten.
Wie van literair speurwerk houdt, en zich verder in de vele betekenissen en, literaire en culturele verwijzingen van het boek wil ingraven, kan terecht op , waar je een van a tot z geannoteerde versie van Ada vindt.
Ada, or Ardor: A Family Chronicle is a fabulous and fanciful amorous dystopia. Right away, with his trial balloon: “All happy families are more or less dissimilar; all unhappy ones are more or less alike,” Vladimir Nabokov shows that his love story is a wicked and highly intellectual parody of everything, of all and sundry in literary world and especially of  Leo Tolstoy  with his disdainful arrogance of a falsely omniscient nobleman. Paraphrasing his showy beginning of Anna Karenina: “Happy fam
Incidentally the other foot—the Pied de Lion from that poor little Christmas larch, is by the same hand—possibly belonging to a very sick Chinese boy who came all the way from Barkley College.”This baffling and brain-crushing conversation of two frivolous children smartly demonstrates that everything mocks everything else:Butterflies mock flowers and orchids mock butterflies;The absurd family tree mocks genealogy of monarchs;Ada's supposed father’s death of exposure caused by running naked into the woods parodies the last days of Leo Tolstoy;Beating the blackmailer with alpenstock mocks the Leon Trotsky’s murder;Ada’s husband contracting tuberculosis in Switzerland, of all places, is a jeering allusion to The Magic Mountain by Thomas Mann.Lucette’s suicide, while cruising on the transatlantic ship, the Tobakoff, is a funny reference to the catastrophic voyage of Titanic;And so on ad infinitum.Refuting the determinist’s statement more elegantly: unconsciousness, far from awaiting us, with flyback and noose, somewhere ahead, envelops both the Past and the Present from all conceivable sides, being a character not of Time itself but of organic decline natural to all things whether conscious of Time or not.
“Maybe the only thing that hints at a sense of Time is rhythm; not the recurrent beats of the rhythm but the gap between two such beats, the gray gap between black beats: the Tender Interval.” ― Vladimir Nabokov, Ada, or Ardor: A Family Chronicle Incest, a game the Whole Family Can Play, NOT by Milton's blind Bradley®.  Part I:There's a whole swath of novels I purchased in my twenties but knowing the authors' genius never felt quite ready to read (ah, tomorrow). It took me years to crack open th
“Maybe the only thing that hints at a sense of Time is rhythm; not the recurrent beats of the rhythm but the gap between two such beats, the gray gap between black beats: the Tender Interval.” ― Vladimir Nabokov, Ada, or Ardor: A Family Chronicle
Please remember people, this novel is so much more than a book about a cousin/brother who loves his cousin/sister (there is also a 1/2 sister).IT is a book about time, memory, love.
Part III:Reading Nabokov's great novels is like finding yourself alone in a beautiful park on a perfect day and suddenly your senses are overwhelmed by the smell, the touch, the dancing light, the flutterbytes and memory dumps of your past.
For the most part, I read this book the way I usually read the first time around - that is, superficially, just trying to make general sense of what's going on and enjoying the sexy parts (of which there are many) - but on the few occasions that I sat down and made an effort to decipher the puns and allusions, things just started to click into place, and I was amazed by how gorgeous and rich it all was and regretted not having read more closely the entire time.
Remembrance, like Rembrandt, is dark but festive. If Nabokov is anything, he's clever. Unfortunately for Nabokov, clever is as clever does is rarely good enough in my case, so that lack of fifth star is a team effort on both our parts. Fortunately for Nabakov, so are the remaining four stars, making this review a pleased one despite all my grumbling.As stated in the summary, the book encompasses fairy tale, epic, thoughts on time, parody of novel, and erotica. The first and second were of mediu
Fortunately for Nabakov, so are the remaining four stars, making this review a pleased one despite all my grumbling.As stated in the summary, the book encompasses fairy tale, epic, thoughts on time, parody of novel, and erotica.
The first and second were of medium intrigue and the fifth rapidly grew old due to the reader's personal preferences, leaving said reader to relish the pieces and parcels of the third and fourth that were registered to a pleasing extent.
But here we run into more misfortune, for if you're going to parody names such as Mann and Proust, you have to measure up to the point of the reader preferring the imitation to the original.
“Maybe the only thing that hints at a sense of Time is rhythm; not the recurrent beats of the rhythm but the gap between two such beats, the gray gap between black beats: the Tender Interval.” First off, I should say this is my least favourite Nabokov novel.
It’s a kind of pun or parody festival and while I loved all the puns I got there were so many, often multilingual or literary jokes, that went over my head that at times I felt like I was watching University Challenge and horrible holes were being revealed in my intelligence, not a very flattering feeling.
Suppose things had worked out better for Humbert Humbert.
Suppose instead that they'd both survived, had various sordid adventures, and then miraculously reconnected twenty years later, at which point they suddenly realised that they had some something beautiful and unique together.
And suppose that Humbert actually wrote his memoirs when he was a near-senile old man, confusing his native country of France with his adopted country of the US and cheerfully twisting all the facts to present them in as rosy a light as possible, while Lolita edits his manuscript over his shoulder with a quirky, loving aside every now and then to her darling Humbie.You got all that?
Well, the result might be a little bit like Ada, an imaginative and disquieting novel even by Nabokov standards.
You really won't like this one.
It's precisely when I love a book that I most strongly feel how little justice my words can do to the experience of reading it, which is how I end up writing reviews like this.Nonetheless, Ada deserves a review.
But another name for Antiterra is Demonia, and Ada means "of hell" in Russian.Van's memoir is coming apart at the seams; everywhere you look in the novel you find eerie inconsistencies, enigmatic remarks, passages that seem to protest too much, judgments of events different from those any sane reader would make.
Ada or Ardor is Nabokov's biggest novel, and in many ways a summation of his linguistic dexterity as well as his literary themes, with all the pleasures and problems those things imply.His writing is a constant astonishment.
Ada or Ardor throws up some problems and challenges, but if you're the kind of reader who likes revelling in Nabokov's particular brand of liquid prose, this book is likely to be a whole ocean of pleasure.
It is a parody of romantic love stories, a parody of the erotic novel (and there is much grand eros in this book, the incidents of the children's copulation reaching upwards of double digits in a single day), and a parody of Nabokov's literary career (characters from his previous works appear or are "reworked", and Ada herself is obviously based on his most famous nymphet, also the structure is something reminiscent of The Gift).
Oh man, sometimes goodreads really weirds me out, like just now when I read all of these really well-written slams or relative-slams of this book. This book to me is so beautiful and lush and rich. I pick it up all the time and read favorite pages or phrases over again; it makes me feel full. It's romantic and strange. The tedium of parts of it just reminds me of the tedium of real-life. I fucking love the shit out of this book, y'all.
Genetic CombustionConstructed with brilliance and complexity and including maybe Nabokov's most radiant, gorgeous writing, the novel runs from 1884 through 1967, covering such heady themes as the texture of time.
They believe themselves to be first cousins, and at this tender age, Van introduces Ada to forbidden pleasures and they begin an all-consuming sexual affair, in which she is just as much an instigator as Van. The descriptor "all-consuming" is no overstatement.
Ada is so obsessed she insists on introducing her younger sister to the taboo ecstacy.
Some time later Ada and Van learn that they are in fact brother and sister.
The style - in addition to being a parody of 18th Century Russian novels - turns out to reveal much about the narrator Van Veen and the information delivered becomes increasingly crucial to the story.
"To Read Ada is to enter a sickly and elaborate world, a sort of hell which parades as a paradise; or a genuine paradise which is so broken, threatened, haunted, gloated over that it feels like an enhancement of hell." - Michael Wood IV.
Some readers miss the gorgeous shimmer of Ardis and think Nabokov has lost the plot -- but this is the point.
Ada, or Ardor: A Family Chronicle is not my favorite Nabokov, but, yes, a Nabokov is a Nabokov, so naturally it is preternaturally well-written, is fluent in more languages than you, is better read than you, dresses better, eats better, exercises more, dates all the guys or girls you’re too nervous to talk to, never has to worry about money, is always healthier than you, can hold its liquor better than you can, all in all, is better than you—and knows it too.Apparently Nabokov was working on two separate projects—one, a playful pisstake of Proust and James and other 19th century writers of bloated sentences; the other, his deep, deep thoughts about Time and (fuck) Space—when the great idea came to him to cram all of it together between two covers.
ada ya da arzu, lolita ve solgun ateş’ten geçtikten sonra ulaşılacak zirve.
ilk elli sayfa da böyle bir sınav var adeta: lolita’yı irkilerek, bir direnç oluşturarak mı okudunuz, burada kat kat fazlasıyla karşılaşacaksınız.
solgun ateş’in aslında kolay okunan bir roman olduğunu düşüneceksiniz.
sonrasında bitip tükensin istemeyeceğiniz ve zaten bitmeyecek, tükenmeyecek bir şölen başlayacak.ada ya da arzu: zamana, aşka, çocukluğa, varoluşa dair bir roman.
sadece bunu söylemek, nabokov’dan bunları okumak, okuyabilme düşüncesi bile büyük bir vaat değil mi zaten?
biz de zamanı düşünecek-hissedeceğiz, çocukluğumuzu hatırlayacağız, çocukluk aşkımızı, çocukluk mutluluğumuzu, gülümseyeceğiz, hüzünleneceğiz, sonra geleceğimiz, yaşlılığımız, ölümümüz düşecek aklımıza… hayır bunlar değil, en azından sadece böyle değil bu romanda.
I came to a strange realization while reading this book: that practically every instance I can think of where an author used an unreliable narrator, it's always the same character: he's an intelligent, introspective guy with a slight cynical mean streak, a man with a fairly high opinion of himself (which is constantly reaffirmed by the world around him)--he succeeds without trying too hard, usually in a number of fields, though the success never lasts (because where would the plot go if it did?), he gets into fights and scraps due to his pride, yet always wins out in the end--and of course his life is full of a succession of lovely women who flit in and out, flirting, desiring him, ultimately discarded.It's such an overt, laughably transparent fantasy of the life of a writer that it's simply not possible to take it seriously--which means of course that no serious author would condescend to write something so blatantly adolescent.
Ele cria beleza no que é suposto haver fealdade; ele faz-nos rir do que esperamos chorar; ele enternece-nos com o que nos deveria chocar;- Não consegui construir a totalidade do "puzzle"; - Quase dei em doida a ler o capítulo quatro;+Fascinaram-me as personagens de Ada e Van por refletirem o ser humano no seu lado mais selvagem (mais puro, mais verdadeiro?); são egoístas, traem(se), não se sujeitam a convenções e sentem, um pelo outro, um amor absoluto (ou apenas desejo?) que, entre encontros e desencontros, perdura por cerca de oito décadas.
I am going to try and explain the different aspects and themes of the book.This is in fact a book of science fiction, and surprise, surprise, I think it is great.
Nabokov plays with his readers through the objects, words and names he invents.In this book you are constantly playing with languages.
Sex is the central theme of the book, be it the copulation of animals, butterflies or people, but the tone of the writing changes, shifts, bounces to fit the message.
An understanding of French is important for this book.
I have explained how Nabokov plays with words - English and French and Russian and Italian and German and Latin.
O poveste scandaloasă despre oameni inteligenţi.Van Veen şi Ada Veen, doi fraţi după tată crescuti de familii diferite, doi copii cu o inteligenţă absolut uluitoare, se îndrăgostesc unul de celălat, iar romanul urmăreşte zbuciumata lor iubire interzisă pe un interval de aproape un secol, până ce aceştia vor trece la cele veşnice.
Nu ai cum să nu fii fascinat de înţelepciunea celor doi protagonişti adolescenţi (undeva se pomeneste de IQ-ul de peste 200 al Adei) şi nu ai cum să nu observi că, de-a lungul vieţilor lor, geniul fiecăruia dintre ei este împlinit și desăvârşit doar în momentele în care ei se vor afla împreună, unul lângă celălalt.
“This interminable book is written in dense, erudite, alliterative, punsome, pore-clogging prose; and every character, without exception, sounds like late Henry James.” — Martin Amis
A bit rich for my blood. Walk away with the feeling Nabokov is a genius and I am peasant who barely skates the surface of the English language. Will reread in 20 years when I am more erudite and sophisticated. This reading guide was invaluable to understanding the 98% of the tri-lingual puns and obscure literary references that went completely over my head. (Does anyone actually read Chateaubriand?)Totally inspired now to read Mansfield Park again purely for the incest.
I'm not a big re-reader, probably because my experience with books is limited and I still haven't reached the point of saturation, but it just happens that I badly want to take this on again.
It looks a lot like Earth and definitely gives the feeling of familiarity, but it's not the normal world we all have lived in.
The entire book follows them through both ups and downs, separations lasting years and explosions of erotism lasting days, since they are mere kids until they become aged and frail, when their love transforms into something else, something deeper and more meaningful.
At the same time, there is another epoch to this story, something I would like to call "infinity".
Ardis Hall - the Ardors and Arbors of Ardis - this is the leitmotiv rippling through Ada, an ample and delightful chronicle whose principal part is staged in a dream-bright America - for are not our childhood memories comparable to Vineland-born caravelles, indolently encircled by the white birds of dreams? This self-reflective commentary on the book we have just read is just one instance of the literary games Nabokov plays throughout this complex, challenging text. What really makes the book f
This self-reflective commentary on the book we have just read is just one instance of the literary games Nabokov plays throughout this complex, challenging text.
With themes of childhood, memory, sexuality and time, the Proustian debt is clear, especially in the long section one as the aged Van Veen (see?) recalls his life, his text interrupted by the marginalia and comments of Ada. This is not a book you can read casually: it's demanding of time and concentration, of literary knowledge and attention to the poetics of its prose - challenging, for sure, but also playful and brimming with vibrant, vivid life.
and for my next trick, WALKING ON MY HANDS!it's as if david foster wallace somehow was really born in st petersberg and fled in 1919 and after peregrinating around europe for 21 years, finally escapes with his life to nyc and takes up the study of the natural history of the rockies and writing novels until into his 70's.
that's what this novel is like.
note: it is imperative to get the edition that has endnotes/appendix by vivian darkbloom.
AND be sure and refer to the notes as you are reading.
541 pages in to a 589 page book and I simply can't read the rest. I kept going for awhile because I was hoping to get to the "masterpiece" part. Nope. I didn't care for this at all. The language was beautiful but I simply didn't care about the characters.
To write a review of Ada is almost impossible except to say that it is the book in which Nabokov, the greatest prose stylist in English, uses his mastery of the language and his great knowledge of European literary history to his greatest extent and evidently enjoys himself!
The whole book is choc-a-bloc with word-play, literary puzzles, allusions to other works, hidden quotations, alliteration, streams of consciousness, history, science fiction, dollops of French, helpings of Russian, laces of Latin, poetry, catalogues of erotica, and many many other things..this is a literature lover`s delight but requires great concentration; however, even more so than Lolita, the dedicated reader will be delighted and rewarded like he or she has never been before.
Lexically, Ada finds peer only in Gravity's Rainbow and Darconville's Cat, novels where assiduity and lyrical exuberance burst with palpable crimson ambition, where the imaginative faculty is affirmed in every sentence.
"Every character, without exception, sounds like late Henry James," says Martin Amis, and he ain't lying; as consequence, Nabokov fails in bridging the authentic tenderness inherent in his other work.
Perhaps palliative sentences breed reader empathy; perhaps if Nabokov strutted instead of drifted, his characters could match his intent.
As Ada stands, I care less for the plight of the Veens than I do for the cozening, malevolent Humbert—a serious, though not altogether value-depriving, indictment.
I read this book for one sentence, a sentence that’s followed me around, unattached, uprooted, for years: “And yet I adore him.
I think he’s quite crazy, and with no place or occupation in life, and far from happy, and philosophically irresponsible— and there is absolutely nobody like him.”Leave it to Nabokov to make that sentence a promise on which the entire book follows through.
In a word, well, incest.”But, it’s Nabokov, of the Lolitas, Dollys, Lolas, Doloreses; what it’s about is hardly what it’s about.Also, the epilogue earns five stars, more than five; something that epilogues on their own should hardly be allowed to do.Nirvana.
Am recitit ''Ada sau ardoarea'' după 12 ani și am descoperit că uitasem aproape tot, în afară de firul principal al poveștii: iubirea pătimașă dintre frații Ada și Van Veen.
Personajul meu favorit a rămas Lucinda/Lucy/Lucette Veen cu iubirea sa neîmpartășită și cu destinul său tragic.
Condeiul nabokovian i-a dat un contur consistent și a facut-o de neuitat cu părul său roș și ochii verzi, mai ușor de imaginat și de reținut, mai fascinantă decât palida și răutăcioasa Adă.Pasajele filozofice despre Timp și Spațiu ale profesorului Ivan Veen recunosc că le-am găsit greu de digerat și de pătruns, uneori, în Partea a patra, am sărit peste paragrafe întregi, dar pe parcursul întregului roman m-au frustrat nepotrivirile între stilul vestimentar și tunsorile personajelor cu timpul istoric în care se joacă, precum și misterul - rămas de nepătruns - al spatiului geografic în care este plasat miticul Ardis.
I've generally felt that Lolita reads as a character study for Ada. Ada, the book, is a far more epic, more upbeat family dramedy - dramedic from its first line to "Vivian Darkbloom's" endnotes.
It's specious to "review" Ada in the traditional sense, and comparing the two is too - Ada, the character, is a continental sophisticate, Lolita a crass American.
But Ada is the more layered and Nabokovian, and - you may snort at the irony - timeless.
Lolita may be the "light of my life, fire of my loins, my sin, my soul," but Ada is the brains behind the operation.
Nabokov is my favourite writer ever.
Just like he chased his elusive butterflies, I chased his hard-to-get books, with the insane fixation of a stalker.
I can read Ada or Ardor over and over and over, I’ve read each page atleast 3 times, drooled over the lines, underlined them, tagged them, read them aloud, wrote them down, mused, smiled and cried reading them, turned them into sun-catchers, into post-it notes, scrawled them over my wall, dreamt about them and even tried to live that sublimity.
I’ve eaten, slept, journeyed and died with this book a hundred times over.
When planning to review certain books, I find myself subject to the common complaint of so many in freshman comp: I don’t know how to start. And here we are. Despite having “notes” in my head and pages marked (laud or laugh at me for the effort, but yeah I actually consciously semi-plan my GR review as I’m reading. Neeeerd.), it’s tough to sum up my thoughts on a 600 page book, especially when my opinion changed so much in the course of reading. See:Reading Progress:06/13 page 535 89.0% "meh" 06
Despite having “notes” in my head and pages marked (laud or laugh at me for the effort, but yeah I actually consciously semi-plan my GR review as I’m reading.
In short, this is the first time I was turned off by, rather than awed by, Nabokov’s pretentious posturing.Then there’s the fact that this is the most disgusting Nabokov book I’ve read.
Now that’s a loaded word!) When one young teen and another pre-teen tie their (yes, “their”) nine year old sister to a tree so that they can go enjoy their ardors in the arbors, I’m just not getting that lovey feeling.
What makes this better than, say, Pale Fire, is that there is some warmth to it.
Pale Fire felt like an exercise: cold and impersonal, and it was impossible to feel much sympathy towards the unfailingly irritating Kinbote.
And it is (unlike some Nabokov) a story, at least until the last fifty pages or so, where we get an extended meditation on the nature of time and memory that is by turns unintelligible and enlightening, boring and fascinating.
Someone saw me reading it and remarked that Nabokov is "self-indulgent." That's true for sure, but if there weren't more to it than that, I wouldn't be reading him.
Το πρώτο διάβασμα σε ένα τέτοιο βιβλίο μπορεί να ναι μόνο επιφανειακό και να πιάνει ένα μικρό εύρος του υλικού που βρίσκεται κρυμένο στις σελίδες του.
Οι χωροχρονικές μετατοπίσεις, οι εναλλαγές των αφηγητών και οι διακειμενικές αναφορές το καθιστούν ένα μυθιστόρημα "δύσκολο" στην συνολική εποπτεία, σημείο αναφοράς όμως για αυτό που ονομάζουμε μεταμοντέρνο στη λογοτεχνία.Πάντως αν και το κύριο θέμα του βιβλίου είναι η ερωτική σχέση των δύο πρωταγωνιστών και το πως εξελίσσεται στον χρόνο, η αίσθηση που μου άφησε ήταν εκ διαμέτρου αντίθετη του ερωτικού.
Ένιωθα πολλές φορές μια αποστασιοποιήση, ένα κράτημα και ίσως και μια εργαλειοποίηση του γυναικείου φύλου.
Zitat Markust Gasser in FAZ: Schlug man seinen Nabokov auf, las man zwar meist ein bisschen über dem eigenen Niveau, amüsierte sich jedoch trotzdem prächtig dabei: Nabokovs Shakespeare-Größe ermaß...()"Dieses Buch ist ein Monster.
Ganz bestimmt gilt das für die ersten dreißig Seiten - danach schwächt sich diese Haltung ein wenig ab.
Ein zeckenhafter Leser muss man sein.Den für mich besten Text zu diesem Buch hat Markus Gasser in der FAZ verfasst: "Einladung zur Peepshow auf Antiterra" vom 17.12.2010 (http://www.faz.net/aktuell/feuilleton...) Dieses Buch ist ganz bestimmt kein Meisterwerk und in seiner Art ein Solitär.
Selten noch habe ich für einen Text mit 823 Seiten drei Wochen Lesezeit aufwenden müssen.
Ein Splitter:… Wer wissen will, was ein erotischer Roman ist, hier kann er’s lernen, der hohe (Buch-)Preis verblaßt neben dem hohen Anspruch dieser Literatur voller Intelligenz und Indolenz, Labsal und Lamento, Pornographie und Poesie, Obszönität und Optimismus, Inzest und Innigkeit, Hybris und Heiterkeit, Delikatesse und Degoutanz.
Sicher ist, daß hier kein durchschnittlicher Bürger und Leser mitkommt, selbst Arno-Schmidt-Fans können die Waffen strecken und bleiben auf der Strecke, das Prinzip der Literatur als eine sich selbst kunstvoll verschaukelnde Kunst wird auf die Spitze getrieben.
"Her long straight hair that seemed of a uniform bluish-black in the shade now revealed, in the gem-like sun, strains of deep auburn alternating with dark amber in lanky strands which clothed her hollowed cheek or were gracefully cleft by her raised ivory shoulder.
The texture, gloss and odor of those brown silks had once inflamed his senses at the very beginning of that fateful summer, and continued to act upon him, strongly and poignantly, long after his young excitement had found in her other sources of incurable bliss.
Through it the student of art could see the summit of the tromp-l'oeil school, monumental, multicolored, jutting out of a dark background, molded in profile by a concentration of caravagesque light.
This is a trashy novel about the sex lives of idle aristocrats.
However, it is by Nabokov and so it is an exquisite trashy novel about the sex lives of idle aristocrats.
The narrator, of course, is unreliable.This book is weird.
It is set in an alternate history earth whose geopolitics seem specifically set up so that the characters can make lots of triple language puns that cross Russian, French, and German and go right over my head.
So yeah, a weird book, not as good as Lolita or Pale Fire, but there are moments of obvious brilliance.
I feel as though as soon as I save this review I will think of a much clearer way of phrasing this idea, but I hope that some of you understand what I'm driving at.With Ada in particular, the unfinished-novel narration approach is really interesting.
I think that I managed to make this distinction because I have read so much Nabokov, and I think that this is a book that will be especially rewarding to readers who are familiar with his prose style, because this novel is NOT in his voice.
Tardé mucho más de lo que pensé en terminarlo y eso se debe a que me pareció una lectura que requiere y merece dedicación y esmero. Pero qué delicia de novela y qué desborde de imaginación (¿o memoria?), erudición y lingüística la de Nabokov. Definitivamente, uno de esos libros que hay que leer una vez y (seguramente) otra vez más después de un tiempo.
Clocks in at approximately a little bit more than six hundred pages, the book, like Lolita, tells about a delightfully forbidden love story, closely revolving around the incestual relationship between two equally passionate and capricious lovers, Ada and Van. Upon fulfilling a splendid job by incorporating his trademark poetical prose into this novel, Nabokov had, once again, made us rethink our own moral compass of what is right and wrong in deciding who can we love.
While I enjoyed the alternate-history aspect of this book up to a point, I’m not sure how much it added, and the Terra / Anti-Terra thing just hits too hard at the doubling theme without delivering as much payoff as maybe it should.
I have a theory that Anti-Terra is a universe where the goings-on of Nabokov's novels are reality, but it's so half-baked I'm almost embarrassed floating it.
It’s just sort of, like, an aspect of the novel, and it adds a darkly parodic level to the comedy of manners that plays out across the novel’s first half.
I think I've only abandoned 2 books in my whole life - for some reason I stick with them, even when I'm not enjoying them.
So I stuck with Ada and foolishly kissed goodbye to many hours of my life I can never get back.Whilst Lolita is one of my all time favourite books, I found Ada to be a mishmash of self-indulgent pretentious tripe.
Could I have dug deeper and tried to see the widely revered beauty and poetry in Nabokov's Ada?
Few books have had such a negative impact on me.
Bah humbug to Ada and Van. Give me Humbert Humbert any day.
This novel is very satisfying from two aspects: On a grand scale it creates aesthetic tension from its "alternative-worlds" setting (a tension between "Terra" and "Anti-Terra" in the terminology of the novel itself) and on the small scale it is full with word plays and puns that don't detract too much from the main line of the story, yet are a lot of fun when grasping them.
Again, after a first reading I haven't made up my mind yet, if this is a substantial contribution or if it's a blown-up air balloon filled with...
