https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17162.The_Chocolate_War
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “My name is Jerry Renault and I’m not going to sell the chocolates.” The Chocolate War is probably one of those books that ends up getting a low rating since it gets crammed down the throats of high school kids in their literature classes. As the mother of a child who is currently being forced to read “a book about girls who do nothing but talk about cute guys” (Spoiler Alert: Marie Antoinette Serial Killer), I WISH his required read
The Chocolate War is probably one of those books that ends up getting a low rating since it gets crammed down the throats of high school kids in their literature classes.
As the mother of a child who is currently being forced to read “a book about girls who do nothing but talk about cute guys” (Spoiler Alert: Marie Antoinette Serial Killer), I WISH his required reading was something this good.
That’s probably why it’s on the Top Banned Books list, right?
Can’t have those tiny minds actually used for thinking .
The Chocolate War is a story about life at an all boys high school.
I think.”
This is one of those where you talk about the theme more than the actual story: "It's the best book about good and evil that exists," you tell someone, after trying to outline a chocolate sale at a religious boy's school that ends in a sadistic boxing fight.
The world is evil and there's nothing you can do about it, but he thought that trying to fight against it is the most important thing you can do, even though you're going to fail anyway.
For someone who writes such dark stuff, it was shocking to meet someone who may have actually been Santa Claus!
We went to the same college.
Sooner or later I had to read this.The Chocolate War is about boys at an all-boys Catholic prep school forming cliques and getting their kicks by kicking the shit out of their fellow students mentally and physically.
This could've been an English novel.Cormier does an excellent job at capturing the hell and ridiculousness that is high school: the plot revolves around selling chocolates and yet, there will be blood.
Honestly, Cormier did too good a job capturing the least favorite part of my life.
I'd be lying if I said my hatred of high school didn't taint my enjoyment of this book.
Do I dare disturb the universe?from a poster that hangs in Jerry Renault's school lockerMy youngest son started high school this year, and while that makes me feel old, old, OLD, I'm relieved that for the first time since kindergarten, he is not expected to sell stuff for his school.
And, as Brother Leon points out, "the sale is strictly voluntary." But that turns out not to be true, and when Jerry Renault refuses to sell the candy, a whole new game of bullying and coercion begins.School is all about learning lessons, and there are many to be learned in this book.
It definitely has the feel of some other books I had to read for school (specifically Lord of the Flies) and I could see it appealing to a teenager more than some of the other required reading we had.This book was released in 1974 and has to be one of the earliest specifically Young Adult novels.
The Author even mentions that when he wrote it the amount of books written to interest teenagers is small.
While written in the realistic setting of an all boys school, most of the things that happen are very outlandish and unbelievable.
In fact, it almost reads like a teenage boy's creative writing project.
I know this is considered important juv.
lit.
However, this book portrays women as nothing but sex-objects (only briefly bringing women or girls into the picture for this purpose), and depicts self-pleasure as normal for teen-age boys, as if they couldn't possibly resist sexual urges.
I would say that at least a contrast between those that have self-control and those that don't would have made it more realistic to me.
If I had read this as a teenage girl, I probably would have felt very degraded and offended (I felt some of that as an adult female reading it actually).
I wanted to read better books, but I had no guidance in the matter and from my experiences with Literature in High School most every classic I encountered got mangled and ruined by incompetent teachers.
I know my teenage self would have loved this book, that is why I gave it five stars.
I don't know, I appreciated that the author didn't really hit the reader hard with the Nazi stuff he mentions early on, but did he treat the theme too much in passing?
I tell her it's the story of this kid who refuses to sell chocolates at his high school, and then I realize that this sounds like the stupidest book in the world--why would anyone care about reading about fund-raising?
I'll tell you why ladies and gentleman--because this book isn't about a chocolate sale, it's about peer pressure, conformity, and the difference that one individual can make in any given situation.Cormier's novel is brilliant--the dialogue and writing regarding perceptions of others' motivations is sharp and incisive.
I read it for my censorship lesson for my lit class and I was honestly frightened of what I would find but it was easily one of the most haunting and well-written books I have ever read.
Brother Leon is truly evil.
His example with Bailey and comparing the class to Nazi Germany is ironic given that he is the most like Hitler and creates a mini Nazi Germany within the walls of his own high school.
There is so much involved with this novel that young adults could truly benefit from.
It's a laugh, Goober, a fake.
Don't disturb the universe, Goober, no matter what the posters say."
Disturbing My Universe(A Book Review of The Chocolate War by Robert Cormier) I’m writing this review in anguish and in tears.At first I couldn’t imagine myself getting interested about this kid who refuses to sell chocolates during a school’s annual fund-raising event. But as the pages were turned all too quickly, I find myself deeply engrossed, on the edge of my seat, clinging on to every word, anticipating each chapter with bated breath. I suppose The Chocolate War by Robert Cormier eludes de
Disturbing My Universe(A Book Review of The Chocolate War by Robert Cormier)
I suppose The Chocolate War by Robert Cormier eludes description; as if to summarize it was a gross disrespect to you who’s reading this review in case you want to pick this book up because I want you to suffer the same anguish that I felt, to cry the same tears I shed after reading this brilliant masterpiece.
Like The Lord of the Flies it is a work of stunning impact about the monstrous and unfathomable power of evil; a book that will linger with you long after you close its pages, an unforgettable story in every measure.Right now I’m still thinking of them.
Jerry's musings about "disturbing the universe" (poor T.S. Eliot) put me to sleep and I honestly couldn't wait for the school's secret society to knock the ever lovin' crap out of him.
I mean, there's this secret society that RULES the school and what does Jerry do?
Maybe I'm getting something wrong here, because I tried to block out as much as I could about "The Chocolate War."I'm not a prude (have you SEEN some of the books I've read) but the sexual frustration present in this novel did nothing for me.
I couldn’t wait until it was over.
Definitely a book that all teenagers should read, however this worn out, paranoid and depressed Gen-yer found it to reiterate stuff that she no longer wants to think about.
That and high school was an entirely traumatising experience for me that I'll never be keen to relive.I cant disentangle my own feelings that were elicited from this book to give it a proper 'review'.
I guess a book that delivers such strong feelings can be seen as 'powerful' but for what end I don’t know.On a technical level its very well written, nice tight scripted language.
Most of the people were evil before they even had any power.A sickening read.
Do I dare disturb the universe? The Chocolate War is probably Robert Cormier's best known novel - and certainly his most controversial one. First published in 1974, it has since been frequently challenged and banned in many schools and libraries in the US, and forty years after its publication remains very high on the most frequently censored books.The novel is set at Trinity School, an all-male Catholic preparatory high school, and focuses on Jerry Renault - one of the freshmen. Jerry is a qui
However, after the tenth day Jerry surprises himself and once again refuses to sell his chocolates, defying both Brother Leon and The Vigils.
Despite the growing pressure, Jerry consistently refuses to give in to their demands, and the situation quickly escalates as other students start to look up to him.Unlike other Cormier novels that I've read, which are mostly narrated from the perspective of the main protagonist, The Chocolate War features several different viewpoints - it's particularly useful to illustrate the complex manipulation and psychological warfare carried on within Trinity.
MY BLOG: Your Move, DickensI absolutely loved this book, which isn’t surprising since it reminded me of John Green’s novels.
Now, Cormier and Green are two completely different writers, but Cormier’s use of the T.S. Eliot line ‘Do I dare disturb the universe?’ reminded me of John Green’s use of literary references in his novels.
Cormier only used a single line from The Love Song of J.
It summed up the novel perfectly, how Jerry did indeed dare to disturb the clockwork-like universe of Trinity.
Cormier didn’t describe them in great detail, but they came alive anyway through the dialogue.
“The Chocolate War” is a popular young adult book by Robert Cormier and it is about how a young teenage boy named Jerry Renault refuses to sell chocolates at his school, Trinity and how he faces some hardships from Brother Leon and the Vigils because of his defiance.
You will never know a truly terrible villain in any book until you read about what Brother Leon and Archie Costello has done to so many people in this book.
Both Brother Leon and Archie Costello are truly frightening characters as they use manipulation and cruelty to get what they want from the school, to the point of using violence to get what they want.
The Chocolate War by Robert Cormier is in my top five favorite novels of all time and is definitely the best book I have read this year so far.
The book shows us the cruelty of people and the amazing power of intimidation both by students and by teachers.
Jerry, our young protagonist, is ordered by the Vigils (a gang of students who make cruel assignments for the other students to carry out( to refuse to sell.
This novel is considered a YA book and I agree in a way, but it is one of the most cruel novels I’ve ever read and one of the scariest as well.
Και αναρωτιέμαι: Σοβαρολογούν; Εμένα το βιβλίο μου φάνηκε πολύ soft στο κομμάτι του αυνανισμού (ζήτημα αν αναφέρθηκε σε όλο το βιβλίο μια δυο φορές και για λίγες γραμμές) και των βρισιών (ζήτημα να πέτυχα είκοσι κακές λέξεις σε όλο το κείμενο, δηλαδή τα αγόρια μεταξύ τους μιλάνε με το σεις και με το σας;).
Ο Αδερφός Λιόν ζήτησε και από τον Άρτσι, αρχηγό των Σκοπιών, μιας ας το πούμε συμμορίας του σχολείου που οργανώνει πλάκες, παρενοχλεί μαθητές κλπ κλπ, να βοηθήσει στο όλο εγχείρημα.
Στην αρχή το κάνει γιατί έχει πάρει Εντολή από τις Σκοπιές, αλλά όταν περνάνε οι μέρες και η Εντολή δεν ισχύει, αυτός συνεχίζει να μην θέλει.
You really never know what is going to happen in a Robert Cormier story until you've read the final word, that bone-chilling moment when it all clicks into place and The Master releases you from his grasp.The Chocolate War is one of those books that are frequently pointed to as an example of how easy it is for publishers to miss out on a rare literary jewel; reportedly, it was turned down by a long line of publishers before someone astute decided that it was a good investment to bet on this gripping, edgy story and its author Robert Cormier.
Makes LORD OF THE FLIES look like good clean fun!I had to teach this book as a high school teacher.
One has a vague sense that this story is happening towards the end of the Sixties, yet oddly, the boys never mention drugs or allude to the fact that kids are getting high all over the place.
They're all like boys in a big plastic bubble.
For reasons that are never explained.
It's hard to believe these are real Catholic kids since they never allude to having rival groups or feeling like there are people in other neighborhoods they want to kill.
SO now I'm well more than half way and fascinated.
I keep thinking that it's some big analogy for government and democracies or maybe the school is Russia and it's about communism.
It reminds me of Watchmen in a way because at some points, the reader does not know who the good guys and bad guys are.
It makes you ask yourself, "Does standing idly by make an antagonist or not?"I am also still stuck on the idea of this being a huge analogy for communism and government relationships.
I can't wait to hear what the 8th grade thinks.
Lean and mean, great allegorical writing; for me, what happens at Trinity is Nazi Europe in a nutshell -- it's easy to see the Vigils all growed up and goose-kicking their way through murder and mayhem.
Evil exists in even the most innocuous, seemingly innocent places...like a prep school, and the preppie students who go there.
A little power can fuel a lot of misdeeds and looking the other way is how evil wins.
Evil prevails when good men do nothing
When school starts Jerry puts everything he has into making it on the football team, and things seem to be going well until the lead member of the school’s secret society, The Vigils, singles him out for a difficult assignment.
Archie, the ring leader of The Vigils, decides that Jerry must refuse to sell chocolates for the big school fundraiser, in order to stay out of trouble with the dangerous secret society.
When Jerry refuses to sell the chocolates Brother Leon, a cruel and frightening teacher at the school, makes things very uncomfortable for Jerry.
I think this is the kind of story that speaks to high school students during a trying time in their life.
I don't recommend The Chocolate War.*****I guess there is no way to soften the blow, but The Chocolate War is senseless to me.
it was unfortunate that such karma is beyond reach to Jerry, Goober, and to anyone else who felt oppressed, physically or psychologically, in this book.i hate bullies.
and i believe bullying was glorified in the end.
Yep, the story was SENSELESS.
A book doesn't always have to have a happy ending, but my gosh, The Chocolate War did not give me even a little morsel to cheer on after i read it!
I had to force myself to finish it just because I hate leaving books unfinished.
It is a story about a chocolate sale at a private boys prep school.
The action revolves around one evil bully, an equally evil and manipulative teacher and their victim.
I find it extremely unbelievable that one teenage boy could have as much power as the bully in this story does.
After reading this cynical and dark story I need to go find something light, fun and easy to read just so I can wash this book out of my brain.Don't waste your time.
Mušu ķēniņš (atkal zēnu) privātskolas telpās septiņdesmitajos. Par izaicinājumiem, robežām, sistēmu un nežēlastību.
Archie’s assignment to Jerry is simple: say “no” to selling chocolate for two weeks, then say “yes.” That’s it, but Jerry never says yes.
At the same time Archie’s telling Jerry not to sell chocolates, he’s told Brother Leon that he’s going to get The Vigils to make this the best chocolate sale ever.
I think he decides not to sell the chocolates, even when finally told to do so, is because Archie has led him to that decision.The book ends with an incredibly violent and visceral scene.
I picked it up because it's sort of a classic and references my favorite poem and allegedly is a great "boy book." More of a great human book.
Beyond that, though, it is just so incredibly insightful and artfully constructed in its presentation of human nature.
"Do I dare disturb the universe?" Maybe my favorite part about this book is that it realistically portrayed how our own universe is constructed not by reality, but rather our perception of it.
I know that most find this book pessimistic and dark, but I found it the opposite.
The only way to avoid the darkness is to disturb it unrelentingly.
Do I dare disturb the universe?This book definitely disturbed my universe, to what extent maybe only time can tell.What disturbed me?
Last question to ponder for the readers (and that includes me), what happens now that your universe was disturbed?See how disturbed my review is, maybe I'm not thinking straight yet for the emotion that I got into after reading, maybe I will review this review after I reread the book - because definitely I will reread the book, lastly for you who haven't read the book, just read it for your sake.
Robert CormierThe Chocolate WarEmber267 pages6.3A glowing review from The New York Times doesn't pretty much guarantee that that book will fulfill your high expectation.
Robert Cormier's The Chocolate War, for example, is often regarded as one of the best young adult books ever written, but for me, The Chocolate War is a homophobic and misogynistic book, set in 1970s in all-boys Catholic high school--which means a perfect formula for homophobic and misogynistic book.
Indeed, Cormier's a great writer.
His sentences are all raw and trenchant, provoking young souls' mind and their conformity, a reminder that sometimes life sucks.
And that's probably the only great thing about The Chocolate War.
This came out well after my teen years, of course, and I first read it in a Young Adult Lit class in library school.
It was a powerful, disturbing read then, and it is today--especially if you're lucky enough to hear the audio version, read by late great Frank Muller.
It's the kind of book he was meant to read, and his voice simply drips with menace throughout the chilling tale.
being true to oneself, peer pressure--make it a book that still resonates with readers (and listener).
Intense and chilling and the ending is about as far from a Hollywood ending as one can get.
