https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156392.Winter_in_the_Blood
Beautifully written - sad and angry and full of wonderful evocations of landscape and nature. A key novel in the voicing of the Native American experience and well worth your time.
Larson from The New Republic that says:"For some readers this will be the most significant piece of Indian writing they have yet encountered; for others, it will simply be a brilliant novel."Since my knowledge of Native American literature is presently very limited, I can say that I very much agree with Larson's blurb and the fact that this book was a significant piece of literature for me, especially because it has made me want to read more books of its kind.Winter in the Blood was originally published in 1974 and it is the first novel of James Welch, a Native American writer who grew up in the Blackfeet and A'aninin cultures and is considered to be one of the the founding authors of the Native American Renaissance.
While neither bitter nor angry, it manages anyway to portray a country that has little to show for itself but "greed and stupidity." The values it embraces are finally those available to every American, native or otherwise - compassion and respect for life and the living.The story concerns a few days in the life of a 32-year-old man, descendant of Indians and living in two worlds, his mother's home on the reservation and the dreary bars and hotels of nearby Havre and Malta, Montana.
This was my fourth James Welch novel and I still can't pin down what it is about his writing that I find so affecting.
The stories just kind of happen, pulling you in (matter-of-fact, whatever) so you don't so much as plunge in but float along and finally end up thinking about them long after you've turned the last page.At any rate, that's the way they work on me.Welch's title for this novel, his first, sets the tone.
And in spite of all the grave themes, Welch has a subdued sense of humour that is not always obvious to "get" but that drifts back to you later.See what I mean?
The dialogue is great; the descriptive writing a little more uneven, sometimes slipping into that dreaded vein known as "Bad Hemingway." (Something along these lines: The mountains were green.
It was cold.
I was fourteen then.
The mountains were green and cold and we felt good.)The story is slack, largely without tension or stakes, though a sense of hurt and emotional damage pervades it, lending some weight to the proceedings.
I didn't mind the meandering plot, because individual scenes were handled so well.
It didn't really feel like a novel, though, more like a 177 page short story.
Not because the events aren't worth recounting or because I cannot remember them, but more like the fact that this isn't a book much interested in plot.
The best way to call the tone of this book is "chilled" in many senses of the term.
On the one hand, it's essentially a hangout book, where you spend time with an assorted group of interesting characters, all of whom are worth learning about.
Everything is what it is, but described in such a way the only thing you can really feel is a crushing sadness, just like our nameless protagonist.
The occasional patches of description were gripping and gorgeous and perfect in the context of this place (both setting and book) where words weren't wasted on what could just as well be understood - if not immediately, then eventually.
By the time I finished, I realized I'd just read a classic - one I had somehow missed up until now.
The writer of this small, under-200-pages book had made a whole, poignant, profound and very honest world without inserting his own cleverness or taking unnecessary side trips.
But this one I very well might, just to be there again and pick up anything I might have missed.
Last year, I decided, somewhat impulsively, to abandon my life as a professor in Lethbridge, Alberta, which is relatively close to the landscape Welch describes at the Fort Belknap Indian Reserve.
I grew up moving between the great Canadian cities and towns, and my presonal sense of isolation and introspection that this landscape almost requires of its citizens is deeply embedded.
He follows all of his impulses without really moving towards any specific goals, but on a quest nonetheless.
After finishing the book, I'm not sure if he really finds it.
Yet, once you let the coldness of the book seep into your bones, it is hard to warm up.
The bleak panorama that is north central Montana is almost a supplementary character in Welch's novel.
While reading Welch's novel, I couldn't decide if it would change how I read the novel if the central character and I had not shared a common locality.
The removal of almost four decades hasn't changed the landscape much, but the detachment from the past, and the distance between people and the land has grown with the passing of a generation.
That connection seems to be what the central character strives for, and it's something that proves ever more elusive to the reader.
This is a lovely, haunting book, written with taut, elegant prose. There are themes of dispossession and distance (both literal and figurative) and the main character, Virgil First Raise, provides an unsentimental yet sensitive glimpse of life as a Native American in the bare, arid plains of North Dakota. I wish I had read this book sooner -- it's one that will stay with me for a long time (I'd also like to see the movie version of this story, which is currently making the rounds at indie film festivals this fall).
This book taught me to stop looking for the meaning in the book--it is only possible to comprehend this book when you stop reading into it and let it begin talking to you.
The narrator is a melancholy fellow and you feel for him as he is essentially drifting through life and seeking some sort of sense of belonging to someone or some place.
This is one of those novels that can’t really be summed up in a paragraph or so.
The novel comes full circle with its tone and the narrator’s feelings about his life.
The Native American themes, while not overly abundant, were a nice addition to the tone and mood that Welch had created.
This is a simple novel that is well done and packs a lot of emotion into ordinary experiences.
I read half of this: some stunning standalone scenes aside, I have failed utterly to connect with this story and its characters. This one’s just not for me.
The nameless narrator of James Welch's Winter in the Blood suffers from a feeling of distance and separation from the people and experiences by which he is surrounded.
In the end, after a few trips to nearby towns and cities in search of a woman that include bizarre and paranoid subplots, he returns home to find his grandmother dead, to make a new connection with an old, blind relative, and to begin to come to terms with the long ago deaths of his father and his brother.
He made them laugh until the thirty below morning ten years ago we found him sleeping in the borrow pit across from Earthboy's place." Later in the book, he describes a blind Blackfoot named Yellow Calf, whom he remembers his father First Raise taking to visit many years ago:"But now, something else, his distance, made it all right to study his face, to see for the first time the black dots on his temples and the bridge of his nose, the ear lobes which sagged on either side of his head, and the bristles which grew on the edges of his jaw....
They also interact with whites, occasionally sleeping with their women, but there is no real connection made.
I read an article in the paper about a movie being made of this novel (novella, I guess, since it's under two hundred pages), so I wanted to read it before seeing it on film.
As Welch said, "I've seen works written about Indians by whites...but only an Indian knows who he is." Of course, Alexie likes "playing up the Indian thing," as I heard one Lakota woman say.
I don't get the sense of a happily-ever-after, of course, just that this human being wants to heal, which manifests in taking responsibility for his actions, his behavior, thinking about how he needs to do better, "do it right".
I also want to read more James Welch.
Cattails on either side were turning ragged."Are there any fish in there?" asked the man."Turtles," I said."Do you Indians eat them?"The girl came out from behind the chokecherry bushes.
A piece of red hung from the point of her chin.I smiled back at her and a sudden pain shot up through my swollen nose."How do you feel, honey?" asked the wife, but before I could answer, the girl said fine, and the waters of White Bear whispered to the sun.The man let me off opposite the road into the ranch, saying to be sure and look them up if I ever got to Michigan, saying he really meant it, he was a professor.
This is a gem of a novella written 40 years ago when it was perhaps easier to reach back into the past when the culture of the Plains Indians still dominated.
There are many easier reads about this history and it may help if the reader is familiar with it but in the end the sentiment and the sense of loss is universal.
This is different from Welch's later novels such as Fool's Crow and the Heartsong of Charging Elk which tell their stories in a more traditional sense but in some ways it is easier to emphasize with the character who crosses between the modern (1970s)world and the past which stays with him.
Poetic, harsh, hilarious, grim...a gorgeously written gem. Welch is a Blackfeet writer who manages to encompass generations of the Native American experience in this lean, intense novel. An absolute classic. Nothing I can say here that Louise Erdrich doesn't say better in the book's introduction. Highly recommended.
An intense novella about an unnamed thirty-something American Indian man caught between his home reservation / losses of the past and blurry, alcohol-fueled nights in border towns. Nonlinear and experimental in style, this is a beautiful and haunting little book.
Reading this book was like taking a week-long, quiet acid trip with a sullen Indian rancher wandering around Montana. It was great.
This is a true story of making new connections in life to fill one’s own psychological gaps caused by the past and present.
From trying to drown memories and problems in alcohol to the beautifully descriptive landscape with larger meaning, just about anybody is able to relate this book to their own personal lives.
I was reminded of past experiences in the rolling hills of Nebraska working cattle with the very minute descriptions that were used by Welch.This is a book that I would recommend to anybody that wants to read an unnervingly beautiful book with a flawless story-line about human life.
"Winter in the Blood" by James Welch is easily my least favorite book, of all books that I've ever read.
Not only is it a largely pointless and hard to follow story, with only a few interesting themes and points made about man vs.
The best part of this story, if such can be said, is the flashbacks we get of the events leading up to the death of the main character's brother, Mose.
The scenes we see involving Mose are good story-telling, if they were expanded upon and incorporated the themes involved in the book, that would be a much better book, one worth reading.
I felt that the most influential and interesting character in the book was Yellow Calf because despite his disabilities, he was still able to be truly connect fully with nature and the world around him.
When using it in the classroom, I would try to highlight how the main character's laziness affected his life and then talk in great detail about how Yellow Calf was still able to cherish and be one with the environment even when he was blind.
I think it could be useful to highlight the importance of nature and the environment, but it would be difficult to oversee the language and graphic parts in the novel to get to that point.
I don't think that I would want to study this with a group of middle or high school students.It is unfortunate that this book was so lacking in literary strength, because the subject of Native American culture would be great as a supplementary piece within a Social Studies course.
While the elements of culture are present within the novel, there's not enough in my opinion to justify subjecting students to this novel.I was disappointed in this novel because I thought that there were numerous opportunities for the author to develop the story line and give readers a more accurate depiction of the Native American culture he was describing.
When I read the back cover introduction to Winter in the Blood, I was excited to read it because the plot seemed like it would be interesting and intense.
Additionally, I thought this novel would teach me more about Native American culture, but sadly, it seemed to portray Native Americans negatively.
By doing this, students could gain more understanding about Native American culture through analyzing the characters' names, which is important because I feel like that is not covered a lot in schools.
However, supplementary texts about Native Americans would definitely be necessary, because Winter in the Blood does not do Native Americans justice.
Winter in the Blood by James Welch was not what I was expecting from the description of the novel.
The protagonist was portrayed as a lazy drunk with loose morals.
There was not much of a narrative either, the entire plot and story line was dry and difficult to read.
The only character and storyline that was remotely interesting was that of Yellow Calf and the Protagonist's grandmother.
Even this storyline, however, did not really develop and was unclear.
We never see much of a character development.The reason I gave it one star was due to the dry and confusing manner in which Winter in the Blood was written.
Beautiful writing, surprising plot details, wonderfully rich characters.
Beautiful ending
This book also made me connect our main character with Holden Caulfield from, “The Catcher in the Rye.” The attempt of wanting to alienate oneself away from others, while longing for a sense of affection or care or belonging is very similar in these two novels.
This book is a 2 for me for the connections it brought to me on other classic novels, it’s slow paced writing, and because of the lack of positive representation on Native Americans and characterization.
