https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/930186.The_Mad_Hatter_Mystery
This Golden Age mystery not only involves a "mad hatter" (someone stealing hats off people's heads and then leaving them prominently displayed elsewhere) but also a murdered man at the Tower of London who is wearing one of these stolen hats.I enjoyed this very much and found Dr. Fell less bombastic than usual. However, it struck me as an atypical Carr mystery since it wasn't a true locked room or impossible mystery. Everyone was prevented from leaving the Tower once the body was found but there was a period of time when people could come in or go out.
Bitton also has lost something very valuable: a manuscript that turns out to be the first recorded detective story by Edgar Allan Poe. But these problems are miniscule in comparison to the fact that his nephew has turned up dead at the Traitor's Gate at the Tower of London, done in by a crossbow bolt.
The story tends to drag on (imho) a bit too long, imho, as Carr lays out hints and clues for the reader to follow.
Overall...not bad, but the book prior to this one in the series (Hag's Nook) is much more serious and tends to get down to business a bit more quickly -- my preference in mystery novels precisely.
He's an intriguing author because he is fairly well known as one of the great British mystery writers even though he happens to be an American.
He did live and write in England for quite a long time so his settings and ambience certainly ring authentic.
Pretty cool sounding mystery with some nice characters and complex twists.Overall I enjoyed reading the novel but found it a little long.
Of course this book was written in 1933 so I am certainly willing to concede the style to the era.
I have another book in the series on my shelf and will certainly read it.
The touch of humanity at the end bumped it from four stars to five for me. And I loved that it all took place within twenty-four hours.
I've always loved the mysteries of John Dickson Carr, ever since my Grandfather brought home a second hand copy of "the Problem of the Green Capsule". The novel featured Dr. Gideon Fell, who has a knack for solving impossible crimes. Between Dr. Fell and Sir Henry Merivale, I prefer the good doctor, but to be honest, they are both curmudgeons (like me) and they are both entertaining in their own way. This was a very clever puzzle, which features the Tower of London, which stirs the heart of the historian in me.
3.5
Dr. Gideon Fell is supposed to be one of the great detectives (OK, second-level below Holmes, Poroit, Wimsey, etc.) of the golden age.
Carr is famous for his locked-room mysteries.
This book shows neither of those traits, but it was interesting nonetheless.
The whole book takes place in just under one day which makes the detective process that much more interesting.
Yes, there are some clues which would help you figure it out (though I didn't, but I wasn't trying too hard), but mostly it is the interplay between Fell and the two police detectives which proves interesting.
Good, but not great.
Another home run.This book begins quite hilariously with a hat-stealing London thief, but quickly turns sinister with an apparently related murder at the Tower of London.It's a confusing yet gratifying plot with lots of twists, and some very surprising turns at the end. A real whodunnit with a number of suspects up until the very end.
This is another nicely twisted mystery. Carr's formula makes it fairly easy to guess the murderer here, but if you can take the back-and-forth between Hadley and Fell, it's a fun read. Sticking Rampole into the mix feels extraneous, but not fatally so.
A lovely old fashioned murder mystery. I loved the small twists and turns and generally the old style writing. Its a simple story so don't expect something like a modern day crime story.
Another Carr puzzler. Starts out very humorously. After the dead body appears, you'd think the humor would evaporate, but the memorable characters and suspects take up the slack.
A very engaging and entertaining mystery by JD Carr.This being the second book in the series,it's al
At least some of John Dickson Carr's books are considered to be murder mystery classics, sure...
But I don't know...To a contemporary reader this is rather unpalatable.
Everything about it feels forced; the plot, the characters, the dialogue, the humour...
"Unrealistic" is one word that springs to mind, "unbelievable" an other.
Couldn't sit this one out for all the stolen headwear in England.(If you really feel an overwhelming urge to se murder done in the Tower of London I recommend Daisy Dalrymple #16 - "The Bloody Tower" by Carola Dunn.

I read the previous Dr. Fell years ago but I seem to recall it was more enjoyable that this one. I didn't find the supporting cast all that interesting here and Fell himself seems rather subdued, much less memorable than in his debut, (Hags Nook). The first two thirds of Mad Hatter are too dry and wordy although the book is somewhat redeemed by the ending. That, and the little hints of Fell's unique character that shine through in places, will keep me reading on through the series. Slowly.
Chapter 1 -- Three puzzles -- Stolen hats, theft of a rare Poe manuscript, and murder. This mystery couldn't be less straight forward...there were so many twists and turns, I was flummoxed. It was well crafted.It was humorous.Clues, facts, suspects...you think you should know who did it, why, and more importantly "how", but there's a piece of the overall puzzle missing.I LOVE all of that!
A bit long, and quite a lot of action happening in less than 48 hours....a little hard to keep up, but the pieces all fall together at the end...not the best Dr. Gideon Fell mystery, but a worthwhile book if you like the 1930s era stories.
Helt middelmådig.
Cardboard characters, unlikely events, implausible ending (I peaked before d-n-f-ing). Also assumes intimate knowledge of the Tower of London's layout. Not for me.
What tosh.
Synopsis: the thief was dubbed the 'Mad Hatter.' Lots of fun, but then a corpse was found. Dr. Fell discovered the whole case turned on hats.
I'm just now, over a year later, getting to another of his books, and this time around it features one of his most famous creations, Dr. Gideon Fell.I'm not sure what kind of doctor he is, it really never gets into it in this book, but it's the second book to feature him, so maybe it's explained in the first, Hag's Nook.
I'm really looking forward to getting to know him a bit more, as I delve into this world further.As for the mystery itself, it's a huge convoluted maelstrom that had me me completely turned around by the time it was over, and I loved it.
There are two mysteries to be solved in this story--who is stealing hats and who murdered Philip Driscoll.
The Mad Hatter has been stealing the hats off of men in London and leaving them in ridiculous places.
Chief Inspector Hadley of Scotland Yard is discussing the crimes with Dr. Fell when they learn of the murder of Driscoll.
The men work their way through all of the clues but the story seems to get more twisted instead of clearer.
When the murderer is revealed, it is the one person who had not been ruled out.
I found the story somewhat tedious.
#2 in the Gideon Fell series, and not as good as the first one. This has a great setting—the Tower of London—but the ending seemed a bit forced to me [I can't explain why without a spoiler]. Also, Fell’s method of solving the mystery seems to consist of letting Inspector Hadley do all the theorizing, then second guessing him. Fell also allows people to falsely believe that one person is the murderer who in fact is not.
Nodding to the tradition of Agatha Christie, this is the second in the Dr Gideon Fell series of mysteries. It was a good fun read, with a murder occurring and being solved in the space of a day by the rotund but sharp Dr Fell and his colleagues. I have never read any of this series before but I really enjoyed it. This one was written in 1933, but it was an easy read and, although it differs greatly from today's crime fiction, it kept me guessing.
This was my fourth Carr book and seeing the amazing skill of the writer to weave a perfect mystery i wish to continue the Carr books with pleasure.As far as this book is concerned..i can only highly recommend it. Rest is for you to explore. All the best.
If you've read Dr. Fell mysteries before, you'll know what I mean when I say that I feel like Hadley for most of the book. In this one too, I thought I'd understood what had happened and yet, at the end, I was far from the truth. The clues are all there - I'm just not Dr. Fell ;)
Fun to read a murder mystery set in the Tower of London
read in 2014, forgot to rate.
A straightforward whodunit from Carr this time.No locked rooms or impossible crimes,just a standard murder with plenty of red herrings and a great finale.
