https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46890.Ex_Libris
Anne and her husband, George are both book people and writers.
my favorite..is called:“Marrying Libraries”.It’s a story about Anne and George finally deciding to mix their books together.
It’s such a wonderful story - and actually deeper than the joyful humor it is.Ultimately libraries are about bringing people together..and for this couple bringing their libraries together was about profound intimacy.
it’s a story about obsession with words.
I loved these essays -mostly about books, and a little about family and food.Anne Fadiman’s prose speaks directly to the heart!!!Many thanks to LisaVegan for this treasure of a gift!!!
She grew to love sesquipedalians (a great self-descriptive word meaning ‘long words’) like everyone else in her family, and shared an obsession for editing grammatical flubs with her “captious, carping, pettifogging” relations.
In other essays we learn her thoughts on: * Classifications of book people into those who keep their volumes as pristine as possible out of respect (“courtly lovers”) and those who might dog-ear pages and delight in marginalia (“carnal lovers”)* The joys of reading out loud* The art of the inscription (with great examples among literary giants)* The pleasure of buying 19 pounds worth of used books (as opposed to fungible new copies from big box stores)* How, to the reading obsessed, even a roommate’s 1974 Toyota Corolla Owner’s Manual will doThis is a small appetizer of a book, but one full of literary flavor.
If you haven't read Jon's review yet, check it out: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Thanks to a bout of insomnia last night, I finished this and loved it.
All of these essays show why bibliophiles love their book collection so passionately; our books become a part of who we are.
I've always loved books, and admit that since joining Goodreads my obsession has increased a thousand fold.
They give you the sense that it's okay to constantly be re-organizing your bookshelf, kind of panicking inside when someone asks to borrow a book, or even spotting annoying grammar and spelling mistakes everywhere you go.This was a very entertaining read and a must-have for the crazily obsessed bookworm.
Because no two books, in a rare display of commonality with us moodier mortals, share the same personality, the one variable is when the deepening of our relationship will become apparent -- will we know by the time the last word hits us like a too-soon au revoir or will we realize that our meeting was fated for roaring success before I've even turned the first page?
One of my favorite pieces was "Marrying Libraries," which was when Anne and her husband, George, decided to combine their book collections:"We ran into trouble when I announced my plan to arrange English literature chronologically but American literature alphabetically by author.
My defense went like this: Our English collection spanned six centuries, and to shelve it chronologically would allow us to watch the broad sweep of literature unfold before our very eyes.
I'd like to see that reflected on our shelves.'George says that was one of the few times he has seriously contemplated divorce."
به نام او.یک کتاب بسیار خوب و خواندنی برای کتابخوانهای حرفه ای که با خوشیها و ناخوشیهای کتابخوانی و کتابداری آشنا هستند و مدام با آن کلنجار می رونداین کتاب به شدت به کتابخوانها و کتابخوارها توصیه میشود
Fadiman describes herself in the book as, "an unregenerate goody-goody, a priggish little pedant who would no more have permitted a rogue trochee to sneak among her perfect iambs than show up in Miss Farrar's class with a smudge on her monogrammed school uniform." Now observe the teenage Ruby Tombstone and her circle of friends in 1986:
Not a sonnet between us.This is a woman who reads old books, makes a list of the words she doesn't understand and then quizzes her family and friends on them.
There are lots of examples in this book of other people with book obsessions just like our own.
"Where is human nature so weak as in the bookstore!" Mine is relatively strong at Barnes & Noble, because I know that if I resist a volume on one visit, and someone else buys it, an identical volume will pop up in its place like a plastic duck in a shooting gallery.
And therefore, like Beecher, who believed the temptations of drink were paltry compared with the temptations of books, I am weak.("Secondhand Prose," p.
In these essays, originally published in Civilization magazine, Fadiman shares her love (and life) of books and the written word.
Anne Fadiman is the former:I have always preferred Keats to Wordsworth, but I was never able to put my finger on why until I read that Wordsworth, according to a visitor, "will live for a month on cold beef, and the next on cold bacon," whereas Keats once wrote his friend Charles Wentworth Dilke:Talking of Pleasure, this moment I was writing with one hand, and with the other holding to my Mouth a Nectarine - good God how fine.
Written in an essay form, the book deals with various topics that all readers will identify themselves with.
I don't usually review books, but I want book readers to read this one so badly that I'm making an exception.
It describes the ethereal beauty of reading a book at the place where it is set.
If you're not sold on it already, one of the chapters is dedicated to books and food, and the author revealed some gluttonous excerpts.
I confess that when this story was told, everyone around the dinner table concurred that justice had been served.”Books about books - or the reading experience in general - I am known to have mighty trouble saying no to.
I found there was a tad too much of a focus on Fadiman's personal life and other subjects not strictly book-related, which frankly didn't do much for me.
This is further exacerbated by the fact that I can’t quite relate to Fadiman's situation as she places nearly everything in that context of her personal life events (most of it involving her longtime husband and children).
First read: Jan 2016Re-read: May 2017Re-read 2 - February 2018Re-read 3 - June 2018There isn't anything I can say about this wonderful book of essays except I absolutely love it and anticipate re-reading it many more times in the years to come.5/5 stars, best of 2016 & best of 2017
This is one of my favorite books. The daughter of Clifton Fadiman can write! These are wonderful essays about life, family, and most importantly, about books & reading. All are interesting & written beautifully, and they also have a lot of warmth & humor. This is a book worth owning to be able to reread certain essays every once in a while.This book is a perfect gift for anyone who enjoys reading, books, and language.
Yet another case of had I read this book a mere few years ago, four stars would have been a guarantee, five if I was feeling especially forlorn due to few real life acquaintances even liking the concept of a book, let alone sharing my fervent devotion for the written word in bound and paged form.
I, on the other hand, believe that books, maps, scissors and Scotch tape dispensers are all unreliable vagrants, likely to take off for parts unknown unless strictly confined to quarters." It was only once they accomplished this mammoth task that they really felt married.I always love reading about the passionately held attitudes of bibliophiles towards their books.
"...closing a book on a bookmark is like pressing the Stop button, whereas when you leave the book facedown, you've only pressed Pause." Fadiman treasures the books for the words they contain, and so values the worn and marked up book.
There are 18 essays, all of which are related to books and you and me, the people who read them.
I prefer long books where you meet people and get to know them well.
I prefer these over paper books since I can take my Ipod with me anywhere.
Please note that she fact reads the lists, mail-order catalogs and footnotes.
This is all part of the book's content, and the intent is humorous.
Some catalogs read as poetry.
Do you read post-order catalogs?
I don't, but I know for a fact that others in my family do!
A delightful collection of essays by a bibliophile, for fellow bibliophiles. Small enough for a pocket, great for dipping in to.She describes growing up a sesquipedalian, the joys (and otherwise) of trying to merge her library with that of her husband, the quirks of proof reading, and much more, as she shares her love of all things literary.A delight from cover to cover and worth every one of the very pennies it costs.
I walked past Anne Fadiman’s Ex Libris: Confessions of a Common Reader at the library and immediately turned around.
Is that the pedigree of a common reader?Fadiman often comes across as pretentious and elitist.
I consider myself well educated, intelligent, and well read, but Fadiman’s “ordinary” vocabulary is far from accessible (e.g., the word sesquipedalian).Yet, at times I can relate with Fadiman’s book love.
I have fond memories of my own parents’ libraries and wonder if my siblings and I (all six of us) will fight over, or even want, their books.
Does anyone want Dad’s collection of political books?
I have ventured again for family reasons to a funeral home.
While it isn't unusual for people at my work to pass prematurely, there has been a statistical glut in my family where people live beyond the norm and have now passed in quick succession.
I have also begun buying books with regularity upon leaving the funeral home or cemetery.
I buy books all the time.
Monday night I left a funeral home in Salem, a small town north of here where I lived on two occasions; once as a child fresh from Detroit and once with my grandmother for a year during my early twenties.
I don't know how many times I've read this collection of essays about the love of books, but it has been many.
Sometimes I just dip into one of my favourites: "Marrying Libraries," "Never Do That To A Book," or "You Are There" -- but today, I ended up rereading the entire thing.
We are the sum of the books we read, and if you are a reader, your life and your reading life are always intertwined.
I feel that I know some of Fadiman's books, and marginalia, as well as I know my own.
Recommended for absolutely everyone who loves books.
This short collection of essays on the reading life is a true delight of a book.
Anne Fadiman writes with self-depreciating joy about the pleasures and pains of the book obsessed, and reading her confessions helped reawaken (and soothe my guilt) about my own book-related afflictions.
Her ruminations on marrying libraries (a task I have not yet been bold enough to undertake with my own husband), the art of inscriptions, and her clever discussion on plagiarism and the originality (or lack thereof) of ideas were particularly satisfying.
There may truly be nothing new under the sun, but reading about the bookish life from Fadiman’s perspective will be a joy for any dedicated reader.
A charming collection of about 18 essays on the art of reading and loving good books. All addicts need apply here. You do not have a problem. Embrace it. There are always more books and you will always find new ones. There is no way to stop, not even if you wanted to. It is better here.
Ever deliver a monologue on French deconstructionist theory simply from an innocuous statement like, "I heard they're making a new movie out of Tintin?" Then this book is for you...and please stay the f-ck away from me.) So instead I'm doing today what I often do in these situations, to declare myself not a very appropriate person to give an opinion on this title, and to keep my review of it to a minimum in order to cause as little damage to its sales as possible.
I finished this book on my flight home from Florida and it provided me with great pleasure amidst my great dislike of flying.
(Perchance I would have given it five stars had I read it from the cozy comfort of the couch in my den!) It felt so chummy to hear Anne's discussion of her love of books (both literary and tactile!) and I found myself nodding with agreement for many of her observations and confessions.
|\| | |_ @ ® > M0127324:یک کتاب کوچک و جمع و جور، پر از فانتزی های خاص و مشترک کتاب بازها و عشاق واقعی کتاب!کتاب پر از لحظات خوب کتابی و نگاه ها و تعابیر دوست داشتنی است، البته ظرافت هایی که فقط و تنها فقط یک دیوانه ی عشق کتاب میفهمه و اونارو با تموم وجودش درک و زندگی کرده!واسه من که عاشق کتاب های درباره کتاب ها هستم، خیلی دوست داشتنی بود.
Every once in a while there would be a sentence here or a passage there that I loved, but for the most part I felt alienated by this woman's relationship to books, which felt SO different from mine and, honestly, a little bit elite.
Whereas the emotional relationship I have with books, and which frankly I actually feel way more people have with books, is that the love first came about because books provided an escape from some of the more unpleasant aspects of life, whether it be arguing parents, bullying at school, generally feeling like you don't fit in, or even just plain old boredom with wherever you grew up.
I was having a bit of a rereading kick during September (largely due to the fact that my TBR shelves were almost exhausted), and decided to pick up Anne Fadiman's charming little volume of essays, Ex Libris: Confessions of a Common Reader.
Throughout, Fadiman's scope is broad.
Fadiman's writing is intelligent and appreciative.
I very much admire the chronological placement of essays too; with the exception of the final two, which have been juxtaposed to improve the flow of the piece, all are presented in the order in which Fadiman wrote them.
The chapter about proofreading particularly tickled me, having worked as one myself.
This book was WAAY too much fun.
She is funny and frank and the book is a delight.
It is so reassuring to read books by people as compulsive as I am about books, since in my "real life" I've often felt like the only book nut.
I do have some delightful online friends who are fellow nuts, but most of the people in my real life have been perplexed by me since I was about 3.
This book is an excellent collection of essays on the reading life.
The author is married to another book geek (not a surprise, for only an equal would be a match to her intellectual prowess), and their attempt to combine their book collections is so funny that I was laughing out loud the entire time (and thus Ms. Fadiman made me feel comfortable enough to continue reading).
My personal favorite is You Are There because Ms. Fadiman hit the nail on the head with my biggest bookish fantasy (reading books in the places they describe).
Two of my own that might surprise acquaintances and fill up odd shelves of their own are patristic theology of the fourth and fifth centuries and North American Indian captivity narratives.I almost never read theology anymore but I still love St Augustine’s Confessions, which fairly blew my mind at age sixteen when I bought a tattered paperback at a garage sale.
Then there’s St Gregory of Nyssa, whose warning about the danger of abstract theologizing still lives with me: “Concepts create idols; only wonder grasps anything.” The appeal of Indian captivity narratives is perhaps more understandable.
