https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682150.The_Return_of_Rafe_MacKade
I really enjoyed this story! There's some drama, romance, tension, and lots of passion. Antietam is an exciting place to live, what with all those McKade brothers hanging around, and I'm looking forward to reading more.
And eventually I got a bit bored of the In Death series because it was more of the same (although I know I must give the series another try because I really enjoyed the books I read in it).Well I'm glad I still tried this one because I had an amazing time.
He still is that sexy bad boy though, the one everybody loved to talk about, the one all mothers tried to hide their young daughters from and the one all the guys never gave their back to, but now he is more mature and knows his place in life, what he wants from it.
*DNF audiobook at 42%*I really didn't like this old (1995) Nora Roberts, which bums me out to no end because Nora Roberts wrote one of my favorite reads of 2015, The Witness.
This book felt alpha male in a way that borders on forceful and rape-y.
I didn't like Rafe as a character, not AT ALL.
This book also had a ton of head-hopping, which confused me, especially in audiobook format.
The audio narration was not my style.
Luke Daniels over-acted and sounded just plain silly, like he was narrating an old-school western.
It was an awful fit for the story.
Reading this book was like watching a match of ping pong.
On the left was Rafe and on the right was Regan.
And I was the one who was conficted.
The action of the book flew by me.
I started this book a few hours ago and it caught me!
I don't even know how I read it so fast.
I just wanted to read another page, another chapter, without figuring out that I was approaching the end of the book.
And this one, certainty was an alpha male and female kind of situation with strong opinions and reckless actions.
I don't know how Nora Roberts does it. She might be a witch. This book was published in 1995 and it is still great!  The MacKade brothers were trouble. Rafe was the worse. After his mother died Rafe left the small town to make his fortune.  Ten years later he returns. He buys the old haunted house to turn it into a B&B. He also meets Regan. She sells antiques. Romance ensues with the kind of passion Nora excels at writing.  Excellent book!! 😁
Atat de bine imbina un pic de magie prin povestea de dragoste...!! Recenzia mea completa, aici:https://justreadingmybooks.wordpress....
Going to the city, he made money, helped his brothers, and returned years later as the owner of a successful construction company.Coming back, one of the first thing he notices is the antique shop owner, pretty, independent Regan- and he relentlessly pursues her.I enjoyed their slow burn chemistry; and the supporting story of Cassie and Dev.Now the reason this story gets not so good stars is- I find it creepy when heroines date brothers- I am all for feminism and independence but Regan came out annoying.
She was deliberately hurtful to Rafe a couple of times.I did enjoy the haunted manor and the ghost- creepy vibe+ angst.Safe-ish2.5/5
Por eso no leo harlequines, porque me parecen todos iguales, síii, ya sé que la mayoría de historias románticas son iguales, jajaj pero los harlequines me lo parecen más.No me gustan los vaqueros.... ala, ya lo he dicho jajajaja, qué prepotencia, está claro que no son de mi estilo, van demasiado de sobrados.. jajajajaTengo que escoger otro tipo de libro para leer a esta mujer, me gusta su estilo, pero ... se queda corta
Frankly, the day I have the sales record and the fanbase that Nora Roberts has, will be the day I criticize her books.
Though this book felt sort of "formulaic", it was a consistent read.
When I pick up a Nora Roberts book, I expect to be 1.) Entertained; 2.) I expect lots of romance and heat (not overly hot...just hot.
(Because I am a giant sucker for a happy ever after.) Nora Robert's books always deliver.
I repeat: They always deliver.
Not as much as I was with other NR books.
However, this book delivered.
I read it.
(I found that the stories by her that didn't really "sing" to me were just read at inopportune moments.)And this little, ole gem was no different.
Wonderful characterization, just the right touch of wilderness and darkness in Rafe, and annoying primness in Regan, great pacing, a little danger thrown in with an abusive bastard, three additional MacKade brothers that were just itching to tell their stories (and I can't wait to read them)...And the smokin' hot sex scenes written the way Ms. Roberts does—nothing explicit, but packing a sensual punch that always leaves me reeling.A great start to the four-book series.
A hunted bed and breakfast in a small town with a bunch of hot brothers ? It sounds so familiar! Oh yes Nora Roberts wrote it again in 2011 The Next Always . I liked this one better!
This book was a little problematic, but mostly because of Rafe's characterization.
Regan is awesome, though her interactions with Rafe are a little too subtly drawn.
Which is part of the problem with Rafe's characterization, really.
Unfortunately, Rafe's own internal monologue doesn't clue the reader in very well and neither does Regan's.
I spent the first half of the novel wondering if Regan was a moron for putting up with him.
And that's uncomfortable reading.The book is mid 90s and is better than most of those from that era in story, but it's one of her less successful stabs at characterization.

Things didn’t happen quite like I planned.I haven’t read a contemporary romance for some time, and it took a while, but Nora Roberts sucked me into the fabric of her story and made me care about what was going to happen to all four of the Mackade brothers.
So I know that I am going to read all their stories.
Unfortunately, Regan and Rafe were not my favorite characters, even in their own story.
Hopefully the other three brothers are not as unnecessarily “macho”(hah!n ot quite) as Rafe, and their heroines are not as annoying as Regan.
The first in a series about the MacKade brothers of Antietam, MD.
After their mother dies Rafe leaves town, knowing he cant stay or his life will be a waste.
She owns the antique store and helps Rafe fulfill his dream of restoring the scary mansion on the edge of the battlefield from the Civil War conflict named for the town.
I love stories with lots of brothers - they mix it up, beat on and harass each other but at the end of the day - they always have each other's backs.
This series is just so.
I love those series about a little town, everybody with a history known by everyone, LOL.In this first book we meet Rake McKade, gone away for a long time and just come back. He's a very sweet and caring hero, trying to be hard but he has a very romantic heart. She's sassy and strong and she knows what she wants. So, he capitulated with grace. In the background there's this haunted house, bought by Rafe with ghosts and stories. A really nice reading. I'm already on book 2.
2.5...This is my second Nora Roberts book and I have to say, I enjoyed the story but not the delivery. Maybe it was just how Regan and Rafe played games and that just started to bother me. I'm interested in Regan's friend Cassie and how she might play into the series.
I really enjoy Nora Roberts' writing and this quartet is one of my favorites.I think I have read them at least 15 times and I will continue to re-read them :)
Enjoyable romance from Nora Roberts.
This one includes four brothers, the MacKade boys.
Gorgeous bad boys - each and every one in his own right.
Rafe left town ten years ago.
Now he's back and is going to prove something to the town who always thought he would end up in jail or dead.
And along comes a beautiful antique dealer and reeks havoc on Rafe's plans.
There's a haunted house involved, a lot of humorous dialogue, a wonderful romance, and hopefully the set up for another brother and his HEA.Although not the best of Nora Roberts, certainly a fun and delightful reading experience.
Short and sweet. A simple story of two people who meet and fall in love with a few miscommunication issues along the way. Loved the interaction with his brothers. And I'm looking forward to reading their stories.
Pretty average.
aiiiii tao fofinhoooo
I really, really, really loved this book... it was oh so sexy and romantic!!! I can't wait to read the other books in the series.
It's Nora Roberts so of course I loved it.
DNF at 20%  No rating b/c it's just not my style, I doubt there's anything really horribly wrong with it. Probably.Because I believe in swift decisions. And there was a paranormal element that I have low tolerance for.And also, the hero's eyes are green. The heroine is super hot. The hero's hair is black. the heroine's eyes are blue. They are both super hot. Nora Roberts and I just don't gel.
Pretty short cont romance. Not my cup, as there's no plot except boy meets girl. Boring really. And I don't find attractive that kind of male behaviour. I call it predatory and in your face. If I am working with you it's not acceptable.
The Return of Rafe MacKade4 StarsRegan and Rafe’s romance is your typical clash of wills storyline as Regan strives to maintain her independence in the face of her intense attraction to Rafe.
The secondary plot revolving around Cassie and her abusive husband adds depth to an otherwise run of the mill romance because the issues raised are still as relevant today as they were when the book was originally published in 1995.
Finally, the story of two civil war soldiers, one Union and the other Confederate, and their link to the Barlow house is both charming and heart-wrenching.
Nevertheless, the connection between the ghostly occurrences in the house and Regan and Rafe’s relationship could have been better developed.
The haunted house and domestic abuse subplot were just uninteresting and a real bore.The writing was superb since it is written by Nora Roberts, but the characters and storyline I hated.
Regan was too uptight and a hypocrite and the "bad boy" Rafe was just terrible.
He steals kisses from Regan, flicks open her blazer buttons at any given time without her permission, and carries her like she can't do anything herself and again without her permission.
Just a real disgusting man with caveman tendencies.This book is outdated and the original covers were unattractive and terrible.
I can't even begin to believe that Nora Roberts wrote this!
DNFI think old-school romance is just not for me.
I mean, I only made it a few chapters in to this one, but if a random man I was trying to do business with kept lifting me up and carrying me when I expressly told him not to, unbuttoning my clothes when we were in the middle of a business conversation (without ANY prior relationship or invitation) and kissing me without invitation moments after I'd passed out and while I was still trying to maintain a business relationship, I'd call him a psycho harasser, not a potential romantic interest.So I don't like the hero because he's a psycho harasser and don't like the heroine because she puts up with his shit, which leaves me...
Life is too short.Goodbye, Nora Roberts.
I loved it!
I rarely read Nora Roberts mostly because I haven't really know her style of writing.
I guess I'm too caught up with Diana Palmer so I don't know a thing about her books.
This is my second book of Nora Roberts I've read and so far, this one's my favorite.
I like Rafe, Nora wrote him differently.
As an 'alpha' man, sure he's intimidating and big but I like the way Nora described his feeling so vivid and simple.
Even though sometime the change of point of view is a but confusing but I still be able to follow them.
