https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6728738-committed
This review is gone now. I'm so sorry that Liz Gilbert lost her partner, and am so grateful to this author for having the courage to share her personal journey of searching for and finding her truth, from EPL, Committed, and then though astoundingly brave updates about her life on social media.Heart goes out to you, Liz. <3
Hell, it could even be called a "navel gazer", though self-reflection is quite a valuable thing when you are making a lifetime decision at great cost of time, emotion, and resources.
It does not have universal appeal because it was written for 27 specific women.There's only one thing remarkable about Mrs. Gilbert herself, for that matter, and that is that she has the audacity to believe that she can and should do whatever the hell she wants, while at the same time admitting that she isn't entirely convinced as to what that is, and realizing that other people's rules and customs necessarily play a large role in deciding what she has a shot at attaining.
Gilbert's new story picks up two years after the first one left off, when her Brazilian lover Felipe has been banned from returning the States unless the two of them get married.
Gilbert does relay some aspects of her own story, but the book spends more time on discussions about her research into the history and sociology of marriage in Western society.
Though other reviewers have mentioned Gilbert does not cover any new ground here, I was unfamiliar with most of this research, so I did find this aspect of the book interesting.
I HATED EPL but I like reading about marriage, so, we'll see how this goes while I'm waiting for Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest to get here (apparently England is having blizzards).-- This wasn't anywhere near as terrible as Eat Pray Love, which isn't saying much of anything at all since I detest that book completely.
As many reviewers by now have pointed out, Gilbert is at her worst when trying to breeze through great expository lumps and hunks of faked-up research, but writes affectingly of what marriage has meant for the women in her family, for good and for ill.
Reasonable people have asked why did I read this book when I disliked Eat Pray Love so very very much & this is a reasonable & worthy question.
If I were Elizabeth Gilbert I would take an extended vacation slash sojourn to ponder this, bemoaning my ever dwindling funds, with my Brazilian lover (let's call him Darling), internet surfing for books on the topic & having my sister send them out to my hotel rooms (Darling & me, we move around a lot).
When I read Eat, Pray, Love a couple of years ago, I remember thinking to myself: "Elizabeth Gilbert is hilarious and sweet and very, very interesting, but I sure would not want to be married to her." Because, you know, she sounds kind of needy.
So sometimes I found Gilbert's fears sort of extreme and wanted to tell her to try the decaf for a while.
But one of the reasons that I do actually love Gilbert's writing is that she pinpoints certain ideas that kind of fascinate me, too.
Oh, Liz. I really want to like you, I do.
Here you write a punchy memoir-sequel Nancy-style book that seems like a great idea at first ("The marriage cynic finally gets married!!!!"), but actually it just makes you look like a big fat flaky whiner-opportunist ("I can't believe Homeland Security is making me marry my Brazilian lover!!!
Additionally, you falsely advertise on the cover that you make "peace" with a social institution you never actually end up making peace with.
Not because I like you.
A chatty and chummy description of marriage - in terms of history, culture and the author's own relationship and forthcoming marriage. Lots of research mentioned, but no specifics given. More along the lines of "current research says..." which I found unsatisfactory.She ends by highly recommending a book called  Marriage: A History , by an historian called Stephanie Coontz. This book gets a good rating on Goodreads and I am adding it to my t-r lists.https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...
I also refuse to say that a desire to be a the center of their husbands' lives reflected or reflects pathology in these women." page 165After reading this passage I almost put the book down for good.
She has set out to uncover some history and write an engaging book where fact and personal narrative are interwoven around a specific topic a la Bill Bryson or Mary Roach but unlike these two venerable authors, Gilbert's research is not cited either within the text or in a bibliography nor is it woven in with charmingly personal narrative.
I admit, I never finished Eat, Pray, Love.
I got stuck in Pray and never got out.
I think this day and age, it has a pretty bad rep with a lot of people.
Interesting facts and interviews with people on their trips throughout this book.
She had a lot of great stuff in there that was relatable, and that's what I liked most of all about this book.
Nah, but I think anyone that has been in a relationship or is currently in one can take something away from this read.
I am in my early twenties, married to a man in his late twenties, and I feel as though Gilbert is not so much researching marriage, as she is all the reasons why Felipe is perfect for her.
Nope. As much as I adored by Eat Pray Love, Committed is definitely not my cup of tea. The whole book is about Marriage - the role of marriage, the pros and cons of marriage, the history of marriage, examples of marriages gone wrong or right, etc.. Overthinking, over-analyzing, over-everything. All I can say is - I like the cover design (the one with the rolled papers shaped as a heart).Read in September, 2016
Having been underwhelmed by the "P" in Eat Pray Love, the "Skeptic" in Gilbert's second volume enticed me to give her a try.If you've been suspicious of the institution of marriage only occasionally, or in fact don't quite understand what anyone could possibly have against such a fairy tale of joy, this book will probably get you thinking.
"I mean." "But I just want to say here..." "Sorry for the rant." "This is just a really, really big issue of mine." It appears that publishers will call ANYTHING a book these days.
The book is broken up into chapters like "Marriage and Women", but really it's just a ramble through a bit of research, a bit of personal anecdotes, and a bit of what was going on in Gilbert and Felipe's immigration story.
As an editor, I think this book needed to be edited more carefully, to piece the stories together, to flesh out the interesting ideas, and to erase redundancies.
2) Part of the joy of Eat, Pray, Love was that we didn't know where it was going but went along for the ride.
As someone who never wanted to get married, but after 30 years came to terms with my own wedding, I really appreciated Gilbert's honesty and curiosity about her fears, her expectations in relationships, and her resentment toward a society that often defines marriage in a way that enforces and imposes gender stereotypes.
I think I (and Gilbert) will always have some ambivalence about the institution of marriage, but learning more about where it came from and how others view it, certainly empowered me to feel like I can remain a feminist while still appreciating the wonder that comes from sharing my life with another person (in a state-sanctioned way).
I almost put it back down again, because it seems like everyone and her uncle has reviewed this book in print, but I didn't have anything else to replace it with, so I thought I'd try anyway.I'm glad I did.
As a book using one relationship to help frame a cultural study of marriage, it was great.
I mean her spending pages on a list of pros and cons and self-examination for making one decision to go to Cambodia.
The other bits are good, though, and made it worth reading.Especially the re-telling of Plato's theory on why we desire to complete ourselves with another person.
Not for necessarily rational reasons - I've never read Eat, Love, Pray, and have refrained from doing so both because of the immense hype around the book and the message that in order to find yourself, you had to be someone who already had an immense amount of privilege.
I'm not saying that's what Eat, Pray, Love is like, as I'm talking from no knowledge whatsoever.
But the publicity around the book just stank of that point of view.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
I find it insulting (maybe insulting is a harsh word...disappointing, maybe?) to readers that Ms. Gilbert or "Mrs. Brazilian Felipe" can change the way she portrays herself in two memoirs and expect the readers to embrace it.In Eat, Pray, Love, Liz portrayed herself as a spiritual person looking to better herself after self destructing (although I didn't feel that way about her situation until reading Committed) her first marriage.
Not just in her obsessive quoting, statistics and random ramblings about things she has read on the history of matrimony but a disappointment to readers who read EPL and mistook her childish escape to these countries as a search for self discovery.Liz didn't go to Italy, India and Indonesia in EPL for spiritual guidance or to better herself.
I simply loved this book.
However, Elizabeth Gilbert is a brilliant author: she presents the right amount of intelligence, wit, sensibility and sense of humor in her writings.In the beginning of the book, Gilbert warns her readers that this will be different than Eat, Pray, Love was.
Her research and writing about marriage is a mere attempt to convince herself, to ease herself to the idea of getting re-married.
She's merely enlisting changes that have occurred in the Western marriage during the past centuries.Gilbert said that she needs to write about things she's afraid of.
Marriage was one of them.
I was ambivalent about reading this, because the "Love" section of "Eat Pray Love" was my least favorite part.
Apologies to the next person in the queue.What I expected: A self-congratulatory recap of how Liz and Felipe overcame immigration complications to achieve wedded bliss.What I got instead: thoughtful analysis of courtships, families, and relationships across numerous eras and cultures.
The book does include the saga of the immigration issues, but now I remember how much I liked the author's self-depracating humor in her earlier memoir.
The story is never smug or superior.My favorite quote: "Sometimes life is messy and botched.
Spending 280 pages with Elizabeth Gilbert is like having a wonderful chat with your smartest, funniest, coolest, most insightful girlfriend.
she is researching childless marriage/childless women because she does not want to have children (perhaps my favorite part of the book.) she writes about gay marriage because she realizes that people dear to her who are gay, if in the same situation as she & felipe find themselves, would not be able to solve things by getting married.as a feminist childless homo-sympathizer in a happy marriage, i loved the messages of this book, perhaps in an irrational, unfair way.

I found Elizabeth Gilbert's first book, Eat, Pray, Love, a bit too self-indulgent for my taste. This book, though, struck a better balance of self-indulgent musing and researched social commentary. (And, I use the term "researched" loosely.) If you are contemplating marriage or are just interested in the institution of marriage in Western culture, this is a decent read.
Love, true love, has brought us together todayI finished Committed, and am at an understanding with the book.
You'll walk away with an incomplete viewpoint and it isn't fair to you nor is it fair to Gilbert to not finish this book once you start it.
In this way, the book itself is an excellent metaphor to marriage and relationships.So, why did I read the book?
I've viewed the contractual arrangement of marriage and the aspects of love and intimacy as two distinct parts of being married, and they happen at different times.
For those getting married, it's a good read to spark discussion.
For those married, it's a good read to spark discussion.
To read the back and discover in the first sentence that this was a continuation of Eat, Pray, Love sealed the deal.
What I can say about this book is that is wasn't strictly biographical although the parts that dealt with the story of Liz and Felipe were thoroughly enjoyable; it was definitely a work of non-fiction.
Liz and Felipe had both been through nasty divorces so when they fell in love they made a vow to each other that they would never marry.
Having said that, even today whilst I was still only mid way through this book I purchased a work of fiction by Elizabeth Gilbert.
An index would have been like dying and going to heaven.
No, a fair inclusion of the role of women and marriage in the East would have been like dying and going to heaven.
I wonder if she chose to ignore all of that data in her three years of research so that her Democratic worldview is not too upset.A conservative estimate of the number of times she explains conservative would have to be, say, conservatively, 25.
Here she clearly also "had(s) this story deliciously backwards the whole time." How could she get away with constantly slamming conservatives and not once (I believe) actually even mention or use the word liberal?
This is like writing about hot, and never mentioning cold.
I don’t envy Elizabeth Gilbert the task of following-up Eat, Pray, Love.
In the “love” section of Eat, Pray, Love, Gilbert meets and falls for Brazilian Felipe while traveling in Bali.
More non-fiction than memoir (although there are strong memoir overtones), Gilbert dives deep into what makes marriage tick, what makes it disastrous, and how we as a culture have arrived at our assumptions concerning matrimony (like, for example, the fact it’s called “matrimony” and not “patrimony” — the mother-making aspect of marriage is assumed in its very title!).Interestingly, when my friends and I read Eat, Pray, Love, we were unanimous in our enthusiasm for “Eat” and “Pray”….but not so much for “Love”.
This book is in fact a two point five, but I found myself annoyed with the author so gave it a two.
How can I be annoyed, you ask?
Do they make an outrageous fuss, crying "I'm so special, I think marriage is too enslaving for me"?
It's interesting to see what a Hmong grandmother thinks about marriage and to compare her thoughts to the American ideal.
But the whole notion that the protagonist couldn't come to terms with a common institution until she had done the research and naval gazing to write this book makes me want to yell, "Get over yourself, girlie!" Mine is a library copy so I am not contributing to Gilbert's growing wealth.
I have a weird like/hate with Gilbert's books. She does her research, sort of (it's always kind of random and unapologetically self-serving). And comes off untrustworthy as such. But interesting. She reminds me of one of those friends who is very dramatic and will fight to the death to defend her opinion...until she changes it, of course. Her Ted Talk on Genuis is great, though. Check it out!
