https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/267213.A_Testament_of_Devotion
I knew the book was listed among the best in Christian spirituality but I didn't know anything about the book.I didn't know that Kelly was a Quaker and that the essays within the book were taken from talks that he gave.
I didn't know how much my favorite Christian writer, Dallas Willard, was influenced by Kelly.I also didn't know that I would need to read it more than once to fully appreciate it.
But then I read it a second time and appreciated it so much more.
I can't say Thomas Kelly led me to calm and simplicity, but he did offer me understanding: "For, except for spells of sickness in the family and when the children are small, when terrific pressure comes upon us, we find time for what we really want to do." With a small child, yes, living a focused life of service can be hard.While his language and theology are old fashioned, Kelly's faith nonetheless inspires me:I am persuaded that religious people do not with sufficient seriousness count on God as an active factor in the affairs of the world.
Back to this book, it was a great collection of Kelly's writings on simply living in the Spirit, living in the presence of God, a lot in the vein of Brother Lawrence.
Go into this book knowing what it is, a collection of his writings, mostly on living in the presence of God, and you if that is what you seek, you will benefit from it.
In living in God's presence Kelly speaks of the work it takes to get to where you can spend "every moment behind the scenes in prayer, offering yourselves in continuous obedience".
This book is the perfect follow-up to Brother Lawrence's The Practice of the Presence of God. While we learn from Brother Lawrence that an abiding presence with God is possible, we learn from Kelly how to acquire it, what it costs, and what fruit will be born from it. This is a very quick read, but should be savored and re-read.
At my high school graduation, some friend or relative (I don't know who) gave me a copy of "A Testament Of Devotion" by Thomas Kelly.
I read this and was touched by the spirituality of the writing.
He wrote of "The Light Within":"Deep within us all there is an amazing inner sanctuary of the soul, a holy place, a Divine Center, a speaking Voice, to which we may continuously return.
Eternity is at our hearts, pressing upon our time-torn lives, warming us with intimations of an astounding destiny, calling us home unto Itself."I gave away my copy but bought it again recently and still enjoy reading parts of it.
And on those grounds, this book does have a lot to offer in the way that it demonstrates the tension that Christians of all stripes feel about the pull of self-reflection and personal spirituality and the realization that as believers we are part of the larger body of Christ, as well as the tension between looking forward to God's Kingdom while also trying to do what we can to ease the plight of those who suffer in this present evil world.
The only drawback I can think of is when it frequently seems to promote the Quaker way, almost as though they only have promoted the primacy of centering the inner life upon the Presence of God. In a book with such a potent universal message and applicability, it was a bit of a distraction and possibly even a bit of an error.
I do find it extremely interesting that such a "denomination" exists for the very purpose of centering the Christian life, in its inwardness and outwardness, inwardly.
At any rate, read it and I'm sure you will find it quite the incentive for "working at" centering life in the Eternal.
It’s a very short and quick read, though the grammar is old English so you’ll have to reread quite a bit to pick up what’s he is trying to say.
It has encouraged me tremendously to know that the struggle of finding time for devotion was the same for those in the 1940s as it is for us today with more technology.
It’s not an issue of the amount of time we have but the amount of desire we have to spend the time with our Heavenly Father.
It’s a convicting book but encourages that hunger for more inside to know it is possible to grow closer.
It’s just growing that desire.
This timely book should be a MUST READ for anyone who claims to be a Christian. Wonderful book. Do yourself a favor and read it. No wonder this is considered a classic. I am Episcopalian and I loved it. Loving Jesus and responding to the Holy Spirit are the most important things anyone can ever do.
This book has contributed as much as any book ever has to my conception of God as near and accessible. It is nourishment for the soul who longs to stay in constant communion with the Trinity. Kelly's words strike a chord deep within my heart. I am so thankful for this book!
This classic spoke gently to my soul and reawakened the desire for such sweet intimacy with the divine Center. So, so good. And I appreciated the chance to experience a Quaker perspective.
This little book came to my attention via the author's fellow Quaker and spiritual teacher, Richard Foster--for me, a longtime guide to the spiritual life.It's a book that says good things in the rhetorical style of mid-twentieth-century university-educated divines (I think Elton Trueblood especially), a style not everyone enjoys but I generally do.What makes this book particularly powerful, because poignant, to me is to read it in the light of Kelly's own career.
It is sketched at the end, but it makes a huge difference to how I hear his voice when I know about the crushing disappointment and humiliation he suffered professionally.So perhaps you'll want to read it once as "just" a spiritual book.
A little dated (written in 1941) but still a rich introduction to "Life from the centre." Kelly is prophetic when he writes that "we are bowed down with burdens, crushed under committees, strained breathless, and hurried, panting through a never ending program of appointments.
We are too busy to be good wives to our husbands, good homemakers, good companions of our children, good friends to our friends, and with no time at all to be friends to the friendless." (p.
112) Kelly perscribes a return to life from the centre.
We bring the complexity in our over busy hearts.
This is not a book I would typically read and, honestly, I didn't find it nearly as thought provoking or powerful as others in the club discussion threads did, but it did have a few good takeaways.
I particularly found the end of the book to be thought provoking.
it was a good reminder that how we spend our time should always reflect what is most important to us but it points out that instead we all too often get too caught up in our busy schedules, our obligations and commitments and the things we think we should be doing or think we need to be doing.
If you enjoy a philosophical read and are interested in growing spiritually, this book would be a good choice for you.
It has amazed me over the past year how many times I have been reading certain passages of Scripture, and then read an excerpt or chapter from this book and felt Kelly confirming so many things that the Lord was speaking to me about in His Word.
I know this book will be one that I will return to in years to come.
Highly recommend.My love for this book only grows with each reading.
The last chapter is my favorite- I keep underlining more each time I read it.
One of my all time favorite spiritual readings.
This book is a collection of essays appropriately named "A Testament of Devotion".
There is some overlap in concepts, but the essays to build on one another and explore new territory as well.Kelly argues for the mental habits of inward organization.
The earlier essays speak to the earlier issues...how to turn toward a new direction and build new habits.
The later essays deal with timeless problems, such as the need for simplicity, our preoccupations with our own efforts, our superficial relationships and our obsessions with the past and future, vs now.I would definitely re-read this book.
It helps that these are excerpts of talks given by him intended to inspire his audience.So if you're looking to add some meaning to life, just read through these pages.
There are less than 90 of them so you can finish it off in a day, which I would recommend for maximum impact.One word of warning it's written in a Quaker/Christian context, so it those assumptions don't mean anything to you or bug you, just substitute something that you feel does move your life.
If you haven't found anything yet, just act as if you have and you can't fail to be washed along by one of the simplest and most inspiring spiritual boks around.It
It addresses how to balance a new kingdom reality in the current Earthly kingdom.Just one of many jewels from the book:"The hard-lined face of a money-bitten financier is as deeply touching to the tendered soul as are the burnt-out eyes of miner's children, remote and unseen victims of his so-called success.
There is a sense in which, in this terrible tenderness, we become one with God and bear in our quivering souls the sins and burdens, the benightedness and the tragedy of the creatures of the whole world, and suffer in their suffering and die in their death."
I read this book in the '80s, and it was one of my first steps toward Quaker Meeting (which I first attended regularly in the mid-90s.
When I sit on committees for clearness for the purpose of membership, I ask the potential member, "Have you read Kelly's Testament of Devotion?" If the person says no, I walk out and I say, "Come back when you're serious."I really don't do that, but on each successive clearness committee I say that I did it on the last one I served on.My point is: If you are interested in 20th-century devotional classics, this is as good a place as any to start.
Thomas Kelly was a Quaker missionary who died too young in 1941.
Testament of Devotion compiles fives essays that are meant to urge us to center our live's on God's presence.
In our busyness, we can live a life centered and consumed by God's presence.
It is that they too may make the great discovery, that they also may find God, or, better, be found by Him, that they may know the Eternal breaking in upon them and making their lives moving images of the Eternal Life."
This book will require re-reading.
Very deep and thoughtful.
I discovered right away that I could not plow through it in a couple of days.
I was deceived by the small number of pages that it would be a "quick read".
I would read a sentence or two and have to stop to think about what was said and how it manifested in my life or more specifically how it did not.
even though it was written in the 1940's, it is very appropriate for today and will continue to be so.
Thus the example of enduring truths.

This book just didn't do it for me. I understand that it is a classic of Quaker mysticism, but I guess I was looking for something more practical, applied to which I could relate. To me it seems very similar to the work of Watchman Nee which I read many years ago. He emphasises the importance of creating a spiritual sanctuary within us and within our daily business lives, and recognising our own relationship to God. It did inspire me to look into the writings of Brother Lawrence, so I will head there next and see how I get on.
Actually, I finished this book long ago and am only now updating my GoodRead page. This book fit in with others along the way to encourage my attention, apprehension and increasing awareness of God as the center of my life. It is so easy to slide into busyness or mindlessness which encourage forgetfulness. This book is able to promote one's heart to remember how deeply loved each of is by the King of Heaven, and that makes me (at least) able to rest there and love more easily.
It's possible to become the kind of person who can say yes or no to needs and requests with a quiet, unhurried confidence, coming out of a place of peaceful quiet within. These kind of people don't get any less done, but they seem to do only what they really need to do, and are not bothered by the rest. This book inspired me to pursue the life of abiding in Christ more deeply. What a great testimony from a man who struggled long and hard to become very holy, and by many accounts really did.
One of my absolute favorites... I reread over and over. Thomas R. Kelly's description of mysticism through every day action, drawing on the teachings of Brother Lawrence and personal continual revelation, provides me with valuable lessons in listening to what God would have me do. I love this collaborative work with the Great Creator... it inspires me to be center more, listen more fully, and move with the Spirit humbly and attentively through each day.
For a book geared towards helping one live an unhurried and simple life of devotion I found it to be written, not in a simplified manner. I still appreciated it very much, and part of the reason I read it as complex might be because it is over 70 years old. Grammar has changed a lot since then. I would still recommend it, but only as meditative and slow reading.
This book is amazing. Each page is such a wealth of ideas and nuggets of insight. Iit took me almost 3 months to read the first half because I just had to reread and enjoy the challenge and insight of the first half of the book. If you could only apply one of the ideas of this book to your life there is no way you wouldn't be a much better person!
I have been a little spiritually lonely lately, and I bumped into this book again in my stuff beside my bed. I read it during a tough, stretching time of support-raising for ministry work, a process which made me feel very untethered. This is direct and simple insight and encouragement from a beautiful Quaker viewpoint. Awesome read.
The book contained some inspiring passages that were like little gems, but overall I couldn't get into the book. I felt like the author was repeating the same thing on every page. I would understand how someone could love this book, but for whatever reason, it didn't move me as much as it probably should have.
