https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2855.A_Short_History_of_Decay
A series of epigrammatic reflections on how things fall apart. This is a bleak, atheistic book, but it is strangely comforting and even humorous in its unembarrassed nihilism.Characteristic Cioran quotes:"Anyone who speaks in the name of others is always an imposter.""By all evidence we are in the world to do nothing.""Chaos is rejecting all you have learned, Chaos is being yourself."
A Short History of Decay is an unbridled celebration of nihilism.
Cioran writes with an almost theatrical degree of cynicism: his commitment to persistently wrenching the most pessimistic conclusion from any proposition is often hilarious in its melodramatic absurdity.
Most of his ideas are too esoteric or crippled by his slanted perspective to be credible except in a poetic sense.
And yet, reading A Short History of Decay is still a worthwhile endeavour.
While the writing style is dense and abstruse (often bordering on incomprehensible), it does possess a poetic beauty and is eminently quotable.
Deemed exemplary: laughter, cynicism, poetry, inertia, acceptance of death and the futility of existence, doubt.
Even at his darkest and most mordant, Cioran's dancing charcoal humor shimmers throughout the grim stream of nihilistic vituperation, such that the harsh friction of the smegma of existence called life being vigorously scrubbed with bristles of anguish and apostasy is periodically overlain by the unexpected, leavening sound of whistling.
“Nasıl bir uçurum kusursuzluğuna ulaşmışım ki düşecek yerim bile kalmamış.”s.126
If you think you hate life, or maybe just the world around you this book will make you kick yourself repeatedly for being just too much of a goddamn optimist.
This is one bleak and beautiful book.
How Cioran could live with thoughts like these and not end his own life is beyond me, but like a character out of Beckett he continues going on.
This is the second book of his that I've read and it's even darker than his more youthful and lighthearted Tears and Saints which was really not the kind of book the average person would call uplifting.
Cioran'ı çok seveceğimi düşünerek başlamıştım bu kitaba. Birçok düşüncesini desteklesem de sanırım sevmeyeceğim tek bir düşüncesiyle dahi karşılacağımı aklıma getirmediğim için karşılaştıkça şaşırdım, uzaklaştım, anca bitti kitap. Onu okumadan önce sadece katıldığım fikirlerine rastlamışım demek ki sağda solda. Algıda seçiciliğin de bir nebze etkisi var tabii. Tutarlılığı ve açıklayışı çok hoşuma gitti ama. Zaten ayrıldığımız noktalar da birleştiğimiz noktalara kıyasla çok az. Yani tabii ki Cioran'ı okumaya devam edeceğim ama, en sevdiklerim rafıma giremeyecekmiş meğer. Pozitif önyargılı davranmışım okumadan.
This book is BEYOND pessimism and nihilism! I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone that thinks positively about their future or anyone that is part of a national movement. E.M. Cioran makes no lie that he has given up on existence (aside from writing of course!).
Felsefik bir söz seremonisinin en üst düzeyinden doğaçlama sancısı. Okuyucuya karşı acımasız, pervazsız. Gerçekliğin acı duruşu ve istemdışı kabullenişin kaçınılmazlığı.
İnanılmaz bir boyutta karamsarlık var kitapta, ancak esas acı olan şu ki yazarın çok az tezine karşı antitez üretebildim.
"Anyone who speaks in the name of others is always an imposter.""By all evidence we are in the world to do nothing."Reading E.
Cioran's essays on human life basically rest on proving its innate absurdity.
Yet despite it all, this book was great - beautifully written, darkly amusing in places and interesting - I didn't agree with all, or most, that Cioran said, but I did get immersed in his world and perceptions.
One for fans of existentialism, absurdism, and anything by Samuel Beckett.
De Historische Uitgeverij brengt nu in haar reeks 'Beschouwelijk werk' een trefzekere vertaling van deze klassieker, met als verrassende titel 'Een kleine filosofie van verval'.Vertaalslag'Précis de décomposition' neemt een belangrijke plaats in binnen het oeuvre van Cioran.
Dat Cioran veel meer is dan een gelegenheidsdenker die zich uitdrukt in aforismen, wordt mooi duidelijk gemaakt door het woord 'filosofie', ook al wordt het dan voorafgegaan door 'kleine'.Filosoof in stijlCiorans denken verzaakt aan elke vorm van systematiek en staat haaks op het gedachtegoed van de 'gevestigde' filosofen.
Cioran knew what`s going on and while reading this book not only that you find yourself in the same posture but also you can find out the answers at his own questions; reading him was just like getting to know my own thoughts at night.
we have to live somehow Cioran and what I want to do after reading this book is make it just the opposite of what you said.
Cioran has me convinced by about the first paragraph that life is absurd, God wasted was a complete failure until he created Bach and totally redeemed himself, people who live in monasteries are egotistical because they care more about their own souls than living with the rest of us...
only the skeptics and the decadent roman emperors had living figured out because 'all other lives have been chained to the monotony of a vocation' - he says what I am thinking - but with pinpoint precision.
It is a very rare thing that a philosopher can write well stylistically. Even if I disagreed with everything said here it would have gotten 5 stars for its prose alone.Of course, I did still agree with at least half of it, so that helps.
not seeing the appeal. overt fascist muses on decadence. how many motherfuckers died to extinguish this kind of self-obsessed bullshit?
Though I suppose dressing it up in the language of 'mortality' does make it seem more poignant and less trite.But here's the thing: if this passage was written by an Instagram poet—and let's be honest it reads like it was—I know for certain that everyone who fawns over this book would ridicule it for being insipid.
Though perhaps what I found most disagreeable in A Short History of Decay, is the way that Cioran repeatedly argues against anyone who has any sort of political or moral convictions:"It is enough for me to hear someone talk sincerely about ideals, about the future, about philosophy, to hear him say "we" with a certain inflection of assurance, to hear him invoke "others" and regard himself as their interpreter—for me to consider him my enemy."In some regards, I hear him: self-righteousness and tyranny clearly have a complicated relationship.
I balked pretty hard, like an alpha-male chicken, when I saw immediately, right on the back cover, that the author flew into Romania after fascists took power, to congratulate them.He does read like someone who went to Paris for inspiration, stayed fo the nightlife, only to regress to cynicism when certainty suits him.
I'd have liked to read further for the comedy factor, since he follows long nihilistic digressions with bizarre, wholly uncharacteristic praise for frivolity.
He sounds like another Hitler-era artist who wants order on his own strange, selfish terms, but I imagine the frivolity would be literally in reading this whole book.
a revelation...life changing...the most readable book of philosophy ever written...pure poetry!
Nihilism as a creative act! One of the great books to have by your bedside, just to remind you what kind of world we live in. Superb!
Mutlu musunuz?!
„Nu mai pot spune de unde vin: în temple, n-am nici o credință; în cetăți, nici un etuziasm; pe lângă semeni mei, nici o curiozitate; pe pământ, nici o certitudine.”    „Timpul corupe tot ce se manifestă și acționează: o idee sau un eveniment, actualizându-se, capătă chip și se degradează.”    „La fel de incompetent în viață ca și în moarte, mă urăsc, și-n ura mea visez la altă viață, la altă moarte. Și, pentru că am vrut să fiu înțelept ca nimeni altul, nu-s decât un nebun între nebuni.”
As brilliant a thinker and writer as Cioran was, it became evident to me why I was not very familiar with his work, as I made my way through this collection of essays.
On the other hand, I don’t think most people who are not depressed would typically enjoy delving this deep into the ruminations of such a bleak worldview.
Cioran takes his nihilism all the way, even further than Nietzsche, widely considered the radical rebel of popular philosophy.
Meanwhile Cioran offers no such conveniences, instead grasping our hand only to drag us deeper into the void.
Las aici două opinii despre iubire:Iubirea - o întâlnire între două salive... Toate sentimentele își trag absolutul din mizeria glandelor.&Contemplați iubirea: cunoașteți simțământ mai nobil, patimă mai puțin suspectă? Fiorii ei fac concurență muzicii, rivalizează cu lacrimile singurătății și extazului: este sublimul, dar un sublim inseparabil de căile urinare: elanuri învecinate cu excreția, cer al glandelor, sfințenie subită a orificiilor... Ajunge o clipă de atenție ca, scuturându-te de această beție, să te vezi zvârlit în imunditățile fiziologiei, sau o clipă de oboseală ca să constați că atâta ardoare nu produce decât o varietate de muci.
I love Cioran's writing but confess that he makes me laugh out loud, much in the same way that de Sade's attempts to shock raise a chuckle and the Handsome Family's modern American Gothic appeal to my Irish/English sense of the ridiculous. I simply cannot take him seriously, and for the reader, such an attitude becomes liberating: you can simply revel in the use of language and the daring with which he expresses the most life-negating ideas. They become hilarious, a joy to read. A delight.
"As incompetent in life as in death, I loathe myself and in this loathing I dream of another life, another death. And for having sought to be a sage such as never was, I am only a madman among the mad..."
What do you get when you mix Diogenes, Heraclitus, Lao zi, the Buddha and La Rochefoucauld in a small piece of coal and crushes it under an infitiny of existential despair and cosmic horror?Cioran constantly mentions what a romantic, idealistic young man he was - though in "In the Heights of Despair" he seems as nihilistic as always - and how now he has matured, abandoning every trace of active philosophy, abandoning movement and hope.
But then again, he was only 22 when he wrote In the Heights of Despair, and any sin of style and exaggeration can be forgiven due to his young age.
Există inimi în care Dumnezeu nu poate privi fără să-şi piardă inocența.
Cioran's florid prose cuts to the essence of Being, free of all metaphysical and idealistic baggage - offering a dark and disconcerting reality, perhaps, but one in which even the greatest cynic can finally find some mode of human agency.
A thinker who unwaveringly focussed his intellectual efforts on one sole problem - life and death itself - for his entire philosophic career, this little book offers a short and powerful insight into the psyche of one of modern Europe's greatest and most captivating minds.
At times, especially when he's compellingly observing how heroism is the opposite of depth, I was reminded of the works of Jeff Lint - but that may just have been because I was reading this alongside And Your Point Is?, not to mention the phenomenon I've observed before where a sentiment intended quite sincerely in French develops irony simply through being translated into English, a language fundamentally less suited to grand seriousness.
But it's precisely through the grandness of his sentiments that Cioran undermines his own plea for universal renunciation.
80% of the time I had no real clue what Cioran was saying so I approached it as if it were Joyce's Finnegan's Wake -- hang on, let the words roll over you, and pray that something sticks along the way.
If you enjoy the conflicted experience of feeling: "This guy's on to something" while at the same time thinking: "WTF?!?" than pick up a copy and have at it.
This copy is going back to the Illinois State Library from whence it came via inter-library loan.
Interesting side note: The book contained a mailing label to the Illinois Secretary of State; sort of gives one pause to think this is what government officials are reading, doesn't it?!?!
