https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24942.My_Wicked_Wicked_Ways
Update: The day before yesterday TCM showed Errol Flynn movies all day long, as well as a documentary about him.
He could give a good performance when he believed in the movie (e.g., Objective, Burma!) The problem was he didn't like doing the kind of films they cast him, and it wasn't until late in his career when he could no long swash a buckle, that he got the roles he wanted.
Also, the documentary made clear that his autobiography was mostly just good literature (i.e., total bullshit, well told.) Ironically, the fact that he's a liar makes him not as bad a person as I thought.
Reading it was kind of like having an extended visit from a drunken uncle who has great stories, zero self-awareness, some uncomfortable opinions, and ventures into TMI especially when talking about boobs.
After several shots from his "water bottle," he starts philosophizing like a drunk college senior.
You're never sure whether to believe his stories about the crocodiles and swindling natives in Papua New Guinea.Uncle Errol's never boring, but you do wind up feeling pretty sorry for him (and any woman who had to deal with him on a regular basis, except maybe Lili Damita, who honestly does sound pretty terrible).
He led an amazing life: born in Tasmania, son of a famed naturalist who was the first person to bring platypuses to England for study, descendant on his mother's side from Bounty mutineers (with the sword arm to prove it), he ran tobacco plantations and engaged in shady dealings and battles with crocodiles and cannibals in New Guinea for four years--he was surreptitiously filmed dueling with a croc by some Hollywood location scouts and they hired him--as well as serving in both the Sino-Japanese War and the Spanish Civil War, traveling around the world, having an out-of-body experience in an opium den in Macau, having his stomach slit wide open by a rickshaw driver in Ceylon and surviving, befriending everyone from King Farouk to U.S. presidents, being turned on to marijuana by Diego Rivera, getting to know Fidel Castro personally in Cuba, screwing probably literally thousands of women etc.
This book sticks with you in ways that will benefit and bring you down.
By the last page you'll feel like you're losing your best friend.
Your mind will long for more.Flynn will be in, and the "in" will send careless whispers through your mundane days.The ups and downs will tickle your spirit.You'll feel like a man -- woman -- a free spirit.
All the while you'll grasp this book in your hands longing for an orange filled with Vodka .
You'll meet art.
You'll meet literature.
You'll meet debauchery, lechery, petty theft, victory and defeat.Already you're in in -- now you can be in like Flynn.
Irresistible a todas luces.Y a las pruebas me remito, porque leyendo esta magnífica obra de sus memorias desde tan temprana edad, su leyenda oída durante años se queda corta al auto retratar una vida repletas de aventuras y desventuras; demasiadas para tan corto periplo vital, un ser creado a sí mismo mediante prueba y error, y vuelta a la carretera y al mismo experimento.
Authenticity aside, he is a surprisingly good writer.
One gets the impression that he spent his life searching for something that would have given him true happiness and that he might not have known what to do with it had he found it.
Towards the end of the book he describes himself as such " I want faith and I am faithless.
He seems to me to be an authentic and completely, naturally, imperfect human.
There was nobody like Errol Flynn.
He avoided responsibility, usually letting his "little head" dictate to the one on top of his neck.No woman could hold him for very long.You'd be a fool to loan Errol money, as his creditors back in his native Tasmania would be quick to tell you.
He spent that green stuff like there was no tomorrow.But, tomorrow did come and his last days were plagued with health and financial problems.
He died at age 50.What remains for us to savor is his dashing, heroic on-screen image that will be forever young.I understand that this autobiography was ghost written, but Flynn certainly had a strong hand in writing it.
Someone needs to leak the ghostwriter of this book's name because this is just masterfully written, though I have little doubt that Errol's unique narrative came from no other source than the man himself. Witty, fascinating, supremely masculine with a touch of the tongue-in-cheek vulgar, this remains the best autobiography I've ever read.
He was a man who, perhaps surprisingly, thought deeply and felt much, but did not always choose a wise course in life.
"I am a contradiction inside a contradiction", he wrote and I think that might have been very true.His autobiography reads like an adventure novel, said one commenter.
On the contrary, he felt that his motion picture career had hindered his becoming what he had really wanted to become and be perceived as whom he really was.I cannot say, after reading this, that I envy the destiny of the man who wrote it.
Errol was an adventurer first and a movie star second. He was an unconventional, unique rebel easily bored and frustrated with normal behaviour which he found almost impossible to keep up. Hollywood managed to corral him for a while but only for a while. Thank goodness they did because now we have the films to watch. Compared to the dash and flash of his Robin Hood and Captain Blood the leading men of today simply pale into insignificance.
Hard to know what to say.
I found him pretty repugnant & shallow.
Even before his discovery & fame & great success in Hollywood he was clearly a ne'er do well & pretty much a bum and a low life.
He had a lousy & adversarial relationship with his mother which probably explains a lot as far as his behavior toward (& relationships with) women.
It appears he had little business sense or judgment either and in the end karma caught up with him as he self destructed with booze & a disastrous attempt at producing & starring in his own movie after he fell out with Hollywood.
Hiread this quite a while ago.An interesting book, Errol did get up to so much trouble, and played hard, drank hard, partied hard, and sad to see his career go down hill so quickly.good readregardsSean
Perhaps what struck me the most was the extreme contrast between the first half of his life, living in unpretentious, free-spirited, straightforward, poverty stricken, primitive, basic-human-level, wild west culture with Tasmania, Australia and New Guinea....And then fairly quickly being whisked to the most pretentious place on earth, Hollywood, with endless riches, glitz and glamour, inescapable contracts and obligations, contrived images, acceptable lies and liars, the value of money over authentic experience and art.
Though he didn't claim to be a good father, I think he was the type of man who couldn't abandon them financially, thus strapping him to the Hollywood scene for the rest of his life.
We also learn of Flynn’s penchant for good looking women, many of whom he managed to meet and seduce in every country he visited.
While in Hollywood, he took advantage of his surroundings and managed to meet and, mostly, make friends with many of the better actors and actresses at the time.
Although their first meeting was hostile, they soon became good friends.
This doesn’t sound like a lot of money today, but back then, Flynn averaged $250,000 per year.
He takes us through his third marriage and ends his tale with a series of lessons he has learned about life.

Growing up, I idolized Errol Flynn on the big screen.
His bravery, his bravado, his overwhelming presence.
My younger brother and I would reenact sword fights from Robin Hood or Captain Blood.
Then I read his autobiography...what a horrible human being he was.
Flynn holds nothing back when telling his life story, and doesn't give a damn what you think of him.
Womanizing, alcohol and drug abuse, slave trading (yes, you read that right).
The man was truly wicked in his ways, and he tells his story in compelling fashion.
A good read, but it will definitely change your perspective of the man.
My mom introduced me to Errol Flynn through the watching of his movies. Grabbing this book and reading his autobiography was quite an experience. The handsome actor was as sexy, rambunctious and adventurous in real life as he was in the many made up ones he played on the screen.
I thought the best part of this book was the first half- which covers Flynn's life up to his rise to popularity.
On the other hand, the first half is a great collection of stories about a young man- a boy really- who can't sit still and openly seeks adventure.
Since in those days we didn't medicate children with this kind of ambition, Errol was free to take off and seek this kind of life in New Guinea.
This truly was a wicked life, but somehow- one comes away with a great appreciation for Errol's ability and drive to "live life".
I give this book five stars because it is a real page-turner, Errol Flynn's own life being more swashbuckling and certainly more piquant than any of his films.
Minus one star because he is said to have misremembered some things, conflating false memories with real (like president Reagan).
Minus one star because of his narcissism and overall obliviousness to other people's feelings, such as the women he cheated on - one of whom wrote that after her marriage to Errol Flynn, she felt her heart was like a pincushion stuck full of pins.
Minus one star for cruelty to animals.
It reveals the complexities of a man many credit only as a sharp tongued, sword wielding, sex symbol.
A man aware of his own contradictions, often accepting of such and just as often bewildered by the direction these contradictions took him through his experience called life.
These experiences were varied, whether they be through seemingly (and at times humorously) directionless wandering about the furthest reaches of the earth or the surprisingly deep thoughts of a man of years, searching for meaning, depicting reality in an environment that regularly feels too extraordinary for such distinction.I give it a solid 4, but would bump it to 4.5 if possible.
This book was amazing.
Errol Flynn is the original "Most Interesting Man in the World".
He just tells you what he did, where he did it and who was involved.
Once he gets to Hollywood he doesn't pull any punches and tells it how it really was.
Other Hollywood stars go on and on about their filmography and what the director/producer/head of the studio thought about each of their films.
But here he gives you all the good stuff you really want to read about.
One of the best autobiographies I've read.
One of my all-time favorite Hollywood memoirs--both deliciously and appallingly entertaining.
The early chapters in which Errol cavorts from Manila to Hong Kong in the company of con-man Dr. Gerrit H.
I read this as a teenager (thrust at me by my mother, no less: "Try this--you'll love it.") and later in the Peace Corps, where a dog-eared copy circulated cheerfully among volunteers--many themselves cut from a Flynn-like bolt of swagger.
Today, Flynn is remembered almost entirely for his cinematic swash and buckle.
"My Wicked, Wicked Ways" reveals a man of infinite curiosity who chose to live life to the hilt--and no less.

I read this book, knowing that he had been a rake and thinking that I might also be a rake if I were given the chance, since I had just come out of active duty in the Army.
Well, after reading Wicked Ways I could never be the rake that Flynn was.
This was the first biographical work I had ever read about a Hollywood star, and it's a pleasurable habit I have never gotten rid of.
Flynn, Cooper, Mitchum, Brando, Dean, Stewart, et al are very interesting people who knew interesting people, and this book is worth the read.
Beyond the fun stories and silly adventures of Errol fixing a cockfighting circuit in the Philippines, throwing strangers off his boat, and picking fights with the biggest baddest kids in school is a lonely drunk trying to find purpose.
It was supposed to be his acting career, but you can only make some many mediocre movies before you lose yourself.
His detail of Hollywood is as accurate as it gets, and if not more then himself, the most vile and wicked thing he encountered.
As a Californian I understand his love for the ocean, it's a wild and tameless spirit much like himself.
God, this was a long book.
Reads very much like listening to your great grandpa tell war stories. Enjoyable, interesting, sometimes fascinating, , but takes time to get through.
Hilarious and beautifully un-PC. This book would be shocking even if it came out today, so I can't imagine the reactions it provoked when it was published!
very interesting book about a man i have never even heard of before well not by name anyway but his face looked familiar.
My lovely father in law gave it to me to read because he said i would enjoy it and i did it was very well written.
I sadly committed the offense I hate.
I do regret not reading it before hand because it did give me insight to a man on his quest to happiness I even think i might watch one of his films.
I enjoy reading books about old Hollywood and given that Errol Flynn was one of my favorite actors I felt drawn to read his autobiography. While I think much of his life story had a basis in fact, I think there was much hyperbole involved in the telling of this tale and Mr Flynn nothing but a fabulist and despicable.
