https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18879761-i-was-here
hear more of my thoughts here: http://youtu.be/GiN-1CvvC2kThis book was so emotional! The only thing that I really didn't like about it was the romance. It was a major turn off for me, but other than that this book was fantastic, but sad, oh so very sad.
Not only do I think that the author rested on her laurels with the writing of this book, if we compare to the ones mentioned above, but I’m certain this could have successfully worked, had it been done a little differently.In the first place, I have to bring up the fact that this relates Cody’s experience with loss, the way she reacts after learning her best friend, Meg, committed suicide.
I could have predicted that, and I guess I did – somewhat, but it still was underwhelming.Cody was a good person, when I think of it, but was she a good character to read about?
This book is no exception, but I felt that this time the story of two teen girls, their friendship and the suicide of one of them was even more orchestrated around the romance between Cody and Ben.Common elements of every other New Adult romance pop up constantly as this novel moves along: death of a mutual friend brings a girl and guy together, a road trip laced with tension takes place, she's a virgin and he's slept with hundreds of girls but he suddenly finds himself wanting to change his ways for her.
May contain spoilery!Cody's best friend Meg has gone off to college and then she ends up committing suicide.
Cody feels the guilt of not doing all she could to save her friend.
She feels that it is partially her fault that her friend is gone.She begins her search for answers and ends up finding an encrypted file on Meg's computer.
This book packs a powerful punch and Forman seems to do very well with her characters being very realistic.
The thing I didn't care for in this book was the romancey stuff.
And it bugged me enough to distract me from the book.
Oh this book, all the feels......
Seriously how did I not find this book earlier?
I have a book hangover.
This novel surrounded my heart like a cloak.
The characters are amazing and lovable and written so well.I love Ben McCallister.
Oh my gosh I want him as my boyfriend.
I love boys like that.If I could give this book 10 stars I would.
This book is written into me like Dark Places was.
Oh my gosh.
Oh my gosh.
This book!I also read it will be a movie soon, so happy dance!!!!!!!!Read it!
4.5 starsOh, man.
Gayle's books are just phenomenal to real because they're so real.
The emotions are so raw, the characters are so fleshed out.
This book reads like a murder mystery and I was captivated by page 30 and read it in a day.
This book is so real and bittersweet, showing the aftermath of a suicide and not sugar-coating anything.
Gayle's voice in writing gets stronger and stronger with each book and this one definitely had me thinking.
*4.5*A very engaging, beautiful, and touching story.
But when I saw this book with the pretty cover I couldn’t resist.Cody is astonished when she discovers her friend Meg has committed suicide.
Cody becomes obsessed with one user in particular, and thinks they may hold the answers to her friend’s death.I think the thing I loved most about this book was how it is set in the first year after high school.
But my experience reminds me that it’s easy for young college students to become vulnerable in a new place with people they don’t feel connected to.
Well I wasn't expecting to finish this book in one day but HERE WE ARE. I listened to the audiobook which I think added to my experience a lot. Overall, I thought this book was pretty good. I liked the main character alright and her journey was really interesting, as well as the minor characters. I also think this is a really important book for its focus on suicide and it's effect. In the end, I liked it alright it wasn't the BEST but I'm still pretty emotional. Tw: suicide
Don't get me wrong, I think it was a terrific book, a well handled story with great character's developments but I just felt it so personal it's odd to write about it.I understood Cody's slipping away from Meg's life, things like that happen.
You don't wear a sign on your forehead that says "I'm depressed", you may seem the happiest person on the planet but being all darkness inside and it's something that affects everyone in the way out society handles it.What I want to say is that everyone has different opinions on life and death, and whether it's ours to take it or continue on it but at the end of the day you don't know what could have happened if you stayed.
It’s not hard to empathize with a girl whose best friend and probably the most important person in her life, more like her other half, took her own life.I like what the story is trying to achieve and I appreciate the plot devices the author used to achieve her purpose.
I like how the story is trying to educate readers and at the same time, helping them realize that like any illness, depression can be cured and not encouraged or celebrated by suicide support groups online.
I'm getting worked up just thinking about how frustrating this book was.
Things I did not like about this book:1) Cody.
Their relationship was definitely the most annoying thing about this book.
Gayle Forman was trying to write an "opposites attract" kind of romance and it just did not work.
This book was boring and flat.5) The fact that the horrible love story took over the plot.
Some of the descriptions of Ben made me want to puke everywhere and a lot of it made me roll my eyes too but I wouldn't call the writing bad per say.
I Was Here, Gayle Formanتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ششم ماه دسامبر سال 2016 میلادینویسنده: گیل فورمن؛ تهران، جنگل، 1395، در 288 ص؛ زبان متن: انگلیسی؛ افست از روی چاپ 2015 نیویورک ؛ کتابهای قرائت انگلیسی (متوسطه)؛ا. شربیانی
Amigas de infância, cresceram inseparáveis até que um daqueles designados motivos de força maior, finalmente as descola!Concluído o secundário, Meg parte para uma Universidade situada numa cidade distante, mas Cody fica.Meg era divertida e extrovertida.
Dispunha bem os que com ela privavam, agradando naturalmente, sem esforço...O suicídio e ela não combinavam!
Não com a Meg que Cody tão bem conhecia!Era inacreditável!
Heartbreaking, delicate and determined, I Was Here will stand out in my mind when I think back on what I've read this year. Gayle Forman's writing style is something I can only aspire to.
But when Cody gets the news from Meg's automated email and goes to pack up Meg's remaining belongings, she finds that her best friend has kept secrets from her she never would have expected.
Cody embarks on a mission to solve the mystery behind Meg's suicide and to put together the pieces of the life she herself once knew.As I have said many times before, Gayle Forman has such a water-like quality to her writing: it flows from one page to the next with simplicity and grace, and I always appreciate it after a long dry spell.
To read the full review, CLICK ME! I tried to write a eulogy for that service. I did. I pulled out the disc Meg had burned of firefly songs for inspiration. The third one up was the Bishop Allen track "Fireflies." I don't know if I had ever really listened to the words before, because when I did now, they were like a smack from the grave: It says you can still forgive her. And she will forgive you back. Suicide is a sensitive, difficult subject to write about and only a handful of authors can pu
To read the full review, CLICK ME!
I pulled out the disc Meg had burned of firefly songs for inspiration.
The third one up was the Bishop Allen track "Fireflies." I don't know if I had ever really listened to the words before, because when I did now, they were like a smack from the grave: It says you can still forgive her.
Suicide is a sensitive, difficult subject to write about and only a handful of authors can pull it off successfully.
Full review to feature on 100% Rock!
I felt calm, peaceful, and full of love. And in that moment, I was reminded just why God wants us to forgive. Not simply because it’s the key to a better world, but because of what it does for ourselves. Forgiveness is God’s gift to us. Christ forgave us. He forgave our sins. That was his gift. But by allowing us to forgive each other, he opened us up to that divine love. The article had it right...   ...Forgiveness: It’s a miracle drug. It’s God’s miracle drug.  Before anything else, I think t
...Forgiveness: It’s a miracle drug.
I mean don't get me wrong, I absolutely loved the book, but there was something about the raw honesty with the story that Gayle shared on the Author's Note that made me bawl.
It tackled the sensitive topic of suicide, and although I'm not a stranger to that concept, it still somehow felt foreign reading a story that centerd around it.
It seemed like such a delicate topic to touch, even the book felt fragile when I was holding it with my hands.
I am not sure what went wrong but for me there was no emotion from me or the characters, I felt no empathy or sympathy for what any of them were experiencing, and I could find no real solid reasoning for half of the things Cody did, thought or said.
I felt absolutely nothing, I kept reading as I was sure that at some point something would happen to give me that lump in my throat, bring on that lip wobble or just a slight tear to the eye.I have absolutely no doubt that I am probably in the minority with my feelings about this book, Gayle is, and will always be an author I am happy to read a book by.
“Anything that kills hope is a sin.”
Can I just speak to the Author's note? It defies description. It was careful, gentle, thoughtful, respectful. It was long, meaningful, different, relatable. It cited many examples, it offered numerous resources. It screamed: YOU ARE NOT ALONE. PLEASE SEEK HELP. THINGS WILL GET BETTER.This story was decent. The evolution or uncovering of the main character's relationship with her mother was very well-done. Her grief, confusion, isolation, abandonment...all believable. The narration was excellent. I actually found myself crying at the end. But that Author's note...
2.5 starsSome new to me info about "suicide support groups," but otherwise the novel is remarkably average and formulaic - your average narrative voice and even more average i-am-so-special-i-will-turn-a-bad-boy-good romance, of course accompanied by a losing-virginity road trip.
“I failed her in life. But I won’t fail her in death.” I have no words left in me to explain how heartbreaking this book was.
Rant.When I think of this book, I just think yellow.
That horrible yellow shade does not compliment the colors of the photo at all and it clashes in the most horrible way.
And then who puts the NYT bestselling line in between the author's name?
It would be fine if it was aligned or something, but there's just the biggest awkward space after "Gayle" and then it just looks so awkward.
I mean, why would anyone put that line there?
And then the way it's placed.
There's the smallest space ever before "Gayle" and then the last bits of "Here" isn't even on the cover.
I dunno if I am allowed to have an opinion on this book since I've only reached like 25% but I couldn't go farther. It was supposedly about her best friend committing suicide but she's just whining the whole time. Other than that, there's really nothing  wrong  with the book, just not for me. Also, I feel like a very unnecessary romance is going to form and I'm just not into it. I'll pass.  “It’s an act of bravery to feel your feelings.” 1.5 stars.
I would like to warn those who wish to read this book that this novel is dealing with suicide This was something that I don't usually read.
After discovering these things, Cody realizes that Meg had a different life and questions why she didn't know all these things.
The more I read and discovered, the more I wanted to know.
One of the things I really liked about this book was how realistic it was, aside from the romance (which wasn't realistic at all).
I don't know if I want to read this book again, but I think I might.
This book hit me right in the feels.I mean, it's a book about suicide so I didn't expect it to be light and breezy, but this is a book that deals with serious topics.But it also has a romance thrown in there, which I thought felt a bit forced? I don't know, I just didn't feel it. The plot and characters were okay, but the themes were really key in this book.
While I've appreciated Forman's attention to grief and the emotional journeys her flawed characters have taken in her past narratives, "I Was Here" brought yet another potent story over several tough subjects: depression, suicide, and dealing with grief over the loss of a loved one.Cody lost her best friend Meg to suicide.
The romance aspect involves Cody metiing Ben, a musician who was involved in a temporary relationship with Meg before her suicide.I definitely loved the cast of side characters in this book (i.e. Stoner Richard, Harry Kang, who was one of my favorite characters, etc.) and I liked how the mystery was a coming of age/grief journey for Cody as she navigated the relationships and events leading up to Meg's death.
A truly touchingly sad story.
I love Gayle Forman's writing.
I've read a few contemporary YA novels that deal with suicide (like Saving June which is a great book) and they all have different ways of going about the topic.The main character and narrator, Cody, is dealing with the recent death of her best friend, Meg. Cody has had a hard life in a very small town and the only stable and constant thing she has had throughout her life had been Meg. However, in the beginning of the book you can tell that Cody is lost without her.
Definitely give it a read!
