https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/452211.Generals_Die_in_Bed
Generals Die in Bed: 100th Anniversary of World War I Special Edition by Charles Yates Harrison is a novel of a soldier's time in the trenches of WWI.
It reads as a memoir and with the author’s war experience it is difficult to tell how much is actually fiction -- even to the point of the author, in real life, and the main character both being taken out of the war by a foot wound.
Generals Die in Bed is a moving account of the war.
A great read for anyone wanting to the trench level experience of WWI.
In New Zealand we remember war and death on the 25 April every year and there are serves held all over the country on this day.
But I was unwell and unable to go to a service and every year I like to read a story about war at this time.
You get to know some of the men but don't get attached because some came to a heart breaking end.
These men went through so much for us, for our freedom they gave up there's.
This is a seminal work, written and published before All Quiet on the Western Front, which bears a strong resemblance to it. The life of a Canadian soldier in the trenches of World War I allowed little room for nobility or love or friendship, filled as it was with rats, lice, poison gas, the ubiquitous stench of death and the few shattered yards of polluted mud which became his whole world. Written in the simple, flat style of Hemingway, this is a Canadian classic.
I am still haunted by the images this author shares, I can't imagine how anyone returned home sane. It is especially powerful because of the narrator; extraordinary descriptions of complete hell in simple written observations. No explanations, no justifications, just 'this is what we did, this is what we saw'. An absolute must-read for everyone.
Far from a cheerful read, however one that needs to be read as it tells a young soldier's story from his own experiences. Lest we forget.
Charles Yale Harrison was an American who volunteered to serve in the Canadian Army when World War I broke out (as did thousands of other Americans). His short (152 page) memoir of the war is a brutal, bloody and shattering account of what was supposed to be a glorious war. Mud, lice, horrific deaths, emptiness, hunger - the daily existence of the average soldier is indescribable. But Harrison does an extraordinary job in such a short work. It is a true classic of World War I literature.
This along with All Quiet on the Western Front (including the movie), helps keep war from being romanticized.
This book shines light on the sad, ugly, and horrific parts of the war that is usually glossed over in modern media. It tells the story how it is and leaves out no detail no matter how small. If you are looking for a historically accurate serious representation of WW1, this book is for you.
ARC provided by Net GalleyI remember reading   All Quiet on the Western Front and being shocked by the stark, brutally honest portrayal of the reality of fighting in the trenches during World War I. Generals Die in Bed was published a year later, in 1930, by an American, Charles Yale Harrison, who had enlisted in the Canadian Army and fought during the climax of the war, 1917-1918. The way in which Harrison throws the reader into the heat of the action through the use of present tense and the to
All Quiet on the Western Front and being shocked by the stark, brutally honest portrayal of the reality of fighting in the trenches during World War I.
The way in which Harrison throws the reader into the heat of the action through the use of present tense and the total exposure to all the violence and inequality of trench warfare makes it feel like non-fiction, not a novel.
I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in what World War I was like, with the caveat that it holds nothing back and can be both heartbreaking and horrifying to read.
For a book that I was forced to read for school, I was pleasantly surprised. It is a short novel and very easy to read. The writing is very accessible and almost modern in its style. The story is heartbreaking, revealing the realities of war through the eyes of a young soldier and the illusions they shatter. I recommend it for a quick read or to anyone interested in WWI. Now if only I didn't have to write an essay it would be perfect.
I had to read this as part of my 12th grade English curriculum and it pretty much bored me to tears. Most people I know that disliked the novel also harbor a dislike of war narratives, but I'm not in that category at all. I just found it underwhelming and oversimplistic - I understand he was trying to be universal and somewhat 'mechanical / detached', but to me it was without depth, very boring and stilted.
Beautifully written honest account of the horrors of World War I. A must read.
Its simple and uncompromising prose is satisfying to read ... to an extent.
I'd never heard of this book until I read an article about it in the newspaper, but my husband read it in school.Similar to All Quiet on the Western Front, but less graphic
Awesome read.
My overall opinion of this book is that it exposes the true experiences of men at war by separating it from the presumed glamour and excitement extremely well.
It causes a feeling of disappointment as the novel reveals the truth that war was not as good as it was believed to be, such as the slaughter of German soldiers at the Battle of Amiens.
This novel helped me to appreciate what the soldiers who fought in World War One experiences.
This is because it was mandatory for millions of men to fight when war was declared and experience extreme fear, injury, or death.
The soaked earth here is nothing but a thin covering for the putrescence which lies underneath; it smells like a city garbage dump in mid-August.
We are sunk in that misery which men fall into through utter hopelessness.”Harrison’s novel takes the horror of the First World War from the perspective of the Canadian troops.
The heartache, tenderness and horror of the scene in many ways sums up the madness and confusion of the entire conflict.The cruelty, lies and contradictions of warfare are questioned and exposed in all of their naked, ugly truth in Harrison’s unforgiving portrayal of propaganda and trench warfare.
Generals Die in Bed is essentially the exposé of World War I; the uncensored narrative of the life of the soldier and the undocumented facts of the men who sent them to their deaths.
You’ll read things here your Year 9 teacher wouldn’t dream of sharing with you, the undesirable realities of war that history would rather forget.
I honestly don’t think I’ll sleep well tonight.The book itself doesn’t read like a traditional narrative.
Well-worth a read for anyone interested in war and desiring something that strays from the traditional ideologies.
Generals die in bed is a great fiction novel about an 18 year old boy that went into war.
This boy doesent have a name but went through alot of things that he would have to deal with like the lice, enemy and very mean generals.
My favortie part in the book was when the boy was raiding the enemys trenchs where he ran into an enemy and had to stab him with his bayonet.
I liked this part not because of the success of surviving by the boy but whether or not he was going to en-counter other enemy troops while his knife was stuck in the enemy solidiers rib cage.
This novel is told through the eyes of a soldier in WW1.
The soldiers aren't portrayed as saints or killers, instead they are portrayed as human with good and bad moments.
The men frequent brothels, loot a town when they run out of food, fight under deplorable conditions with constant lice and rats.
The leave the soldiers get is frequently too short or lacking in amenities.
The soldier’s view of the war slowly changes as time goes on and the truth of the war slowly surfaces.Not one of my favorite was novels but still definitely a good read.
A horrific, but honest and needed account of WWI.
We tend to romanticize the World Wars in our culture and ignore its reality.
Harrison paints WWI as gruesome, unsanitary to extremes, lonely, and completely unnerving.
You forget that these are only boys fighting in conditions no one should have to go through.
These boys grew up and lost their innocence well before they should have.
Romanticizing war is nothing but propaganda.
Harrison does everything to show war is not like John McCrae's poem "In Flanders Fields" and many other wartime poems that were used for propaganda.
Generals Die in Bed by Charles Yale Harrison is a Novel about a young Canadian soldier who is shipped off to the western front.
He and his comrades fight over food, fight the germans, always fighting with some aspect of the trenches, even pillage an abandoned town.
This is about a struggle for life.
Generals die in bed also cover the llandovery castle, and the horror associated with the lie.
The Canadian soldiers believe it, believe it and all the other horror stories about germans and the things that they had done due to their biased prejudices.
Having just finished G.J. Meyers' exceptional history of the First World War, 'A World Undone,' I was extremely excited to find a novel set during the war that did not romanticize the experience of the common soldier.
Harrison served with the Royal Montreal Regiment and his novel is so grounded in the reality of that experience that it made me aware of my own literary chauvinism which falsely presumed such realism to be a relatively recent trend.
(A quick Google search for 'literary realism' betrays the limits of my literary education and opens up a rich mine of authors to explore.)
Gruesome and disturbing in its portrayal of the war & trench warfare. God, the worst passage was the part where the MC's bayonet gets stuck in the German's ribs and won't come out and he's forcing it out, making the hole bigger. I cringed at this part. And so many others. It's just so raw and powerful in its description and its bluntness.Wow. Just wow.
a very interesting and short read. i’m not really one for war books, i had to read this for a class, but i enjoyed how it was an anti-war book written with real life experience in a fictional novel. personally, i can’t say i really enjoyed the book because it made me uncomfortable, but that just means the book did its job, so it deserves a high rating
This was a relatively quick but it made me think and very much consider the WWI experience again. I also found it interesting to get a perspective into the Canadian war experience. Reading the forward before diving into the novel portion of the book also helped to frame the content that followed very well and give added depth to the experiences described.
With simple prose the author makes as eloquent a statement about the bitter and ugly realities of 'The Great War' as any writer has managed. The reader will not find here the succor of saving-graces such as honour, valour and noble sacrifice. Those get tacked on in the aftermath to gloss over the more primal traits that man is heir to in the midst of battle.
This book at times just infuriates me, so much so that this book is brilliant! I understand why Harrison wrote in simplistic language but I didn't really care for that. I think when a book (or the author) receives such harsh criticism but also such admiration for one's piece of work, it's a mark of brilliance.
It was an empowering WW1 novel, which really taught me about the trench warfare and soldiers of war. I would definitely recommend if you want to read a war novel that is very realistic and depressing.
This book was not only informative, but it was entertaining and interesting and was able to hook me in from the start. I do believe, however, that it could have hooked me in even more, but, of course, that is not the point of the book.
