https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227454.The_Legacy
Es todo lo que esperamos, y queremos, leer sobre fantasia.
Es la base para todo lo demas, como juegos de mesa, videojuegos, peliculas, o hasta otros libros.Pero con el tiempo se va estancando, deja de fluir la originalidad, los momentos de calma o tension dejan de afectarnos.
Pasa a ser un paramo llano sin ninguna emocion.Las conversaciones pasan a ser absurdamente repetitivas y predecibles.
Ya sabemos que un barbaro va a hablar como barbaro.
Pero los personajes pasaron de ser eso, personajes, a ser simples estereotipos.La originalidad tambien abandono la linea de la historia.
Regresan personajes antiguos y reciclados de las sub sagas anteriores.
Simply amazing! I've read this about 3 times now since first reading it in high school. I love these characters and this book starts out on a long stretch that goes...oh, I'd say a good 4 books or so.There's a lot of good humor and cheer and then things get bloody. But that's the way we like it, right? Hey, who the hell am I writing this to, anyways? You know this is 5-star!

It's really hard to rate this series on a five star scale.
There are clear good guys and bad guys.Of this book in particular, I would say that the beginning and middle were just so-so.
The ending was really pretty good.
The return of old adversaries and the revelation of an ancient grudge at the very end really let this volume end on a high note.
It leads heavily into the next book, like an old cinema serial.
Stay tuned for the next book, where Drizzt and the dwarves of clan Battlehammer face off against...
Guilty pleasure of course, cruised through half of it in a couple hours on a nice saturday afternoon.
Same ol same ol concept.
Drizzit and his allies set out on a quest after old resurfaces nemesis however their quest ends up taking them deep into Drizzts homeland that he vowed never to return to again.
Lots of fight scenes...probably too much which would have shorted the book by about 25% if some of the over done portions were taken out, but again I wasnt looking for the perfect novel just something alot of fun in the fantasy genre which is what I got.
Action, adventure, and some heartbreak.
Good times again from Mr. Salvatore.
This book is quite possibly the best pure action book I've ever read.
It helps that after six books, RAS doesn't have to spend too much time explaining characters and their motives.
So while the heart strings were plucked a couple of times, it was the action strings that were strummed.
All this action makes this book one incredibly fast read especially if you are vested in the story and characters.
One heart string is plucked very hard and I'm man enough to admit that it choked me up (just briefly).
A very fine outing for Drizzt and his band of friends.
There's a scene in this book that will go down as one of the stupidest things to ever happen in any book ever - (view spoiler)[ There's this super deadly assassin, and all book long he's trying to kill the good guy, and they have several battles.
Finally, they are battling on the edge of a cliff, and the good guy manages to knock the bad guy off the cliff and kill him.
HE SPROUTED BATWINGS!
HE SPROUTED BATWINGS!
Turns out he can sprout BATWINGS.
So he and his batwings fly right back up the cliff.
Typical Salvatore/Drizzt book. I guess you can turn a blind eye on the obvious flaws if you are a fan of the Drizzt series. A quick and action packed read, lot of fun!
I wanted to read some of the later books, because Salvatore’s work is comfort fantasy for me, and that is what I was in the mood for.The Legacy features the Drow coming after Drizzt.
There are so many instances of not judging others based off of their background/race in these books and I just appreciate that aspect so much.The next reason I enjoy these books and this book in particular is because R.A. Salvatore writes some of the best combat scenes in fantasy.
In fact, more than any other Drizzt book I’ve read, this book might actually have too many fight scenes.
R.A. Salvatore is the nicest guy you'll ever meet or talk to online.
Rothfuss is full of @*#$, while Salvatore is not--he tries very hard, succeeds and fails in equal measure, and is not full of himself like Rothfuss.
So, while I can follow along with Salvatore, yawning occasionally, and NEVER, EVER, EVER being surprised by any plot twist--they are more like plot curves in a very broad road--the presumption of Rothfuss just starts to anger me after a while.
What I am saying is, his Drizzt novels (has he done anything else?) are like Pocket Books' Star Trek novels.
Ha sido genial reencontrarse con estos personajes, aunque he dejado pasar tanto tiempo que había ciertas cosas que se me habían olvidado.Continuaré con la saga y con los libros que me queden de Drittz, amo a este personaje.
Eine tolle Entwicklung in diesem Teil. Endlich mehr Dunkelelfen, mehr Intrigen und unheimliche Wendungen. Nach dem Tod von W., ist nun der Weg frei für C.-B. und D. oder eiern sie weiter rum. Man darf gespannt sein...
Drizzt battled his enemy Artemis Entreri into a retreat.
Now Bruenor sits on his throne and the biggest concern that the companions have is the wedding of Catti-Brie and Wulfgar.
Unbeknownst to the companions an old enemy lurks below them.
The chief matron of Menzoberranzen sends a war party out to capture Drizzt and put an end to this renegade.The drow are always confident in their skills, but they underestimate the power of the companions.
Bruenoer, Catti-Brie, and Wulfgar all go after Drizzt.
It will take all of the cunning and skill of Drizzt and his companions to survive this encounter.
And I am just loving the world of the Forgotten Realms.
It is full of so many exciting and creative creatures and places.
I am finding myself excited and drawn to the other books in the Forgotten World series, once I finish Salvatore and even the computer games.
I am actually liking this world of Forgotten Realms even more thank Tolkiens Middle Earth.
For such a well known and highly regarded author you would think they would do a better job on the editing.
There are times I feel like I am reading a cheap reprint.
I find it difficult to draw up a summary on these books without spoiling anything, so here's the gist of things; Many new threats have to come Mithril Hall, both Foreign and domestic and of course it has to be near a wedding date.
New faces are common amongst far older and fouler ones.
Personal demons can be found in abundance here as we see character development by the leaps and bounds, many shattering conclusions lay within these pages.As a self-proclaimed fantasy geek, I am all too familiar with disappointment, whether things are hokey, cartoonish or just down right ridiculous are common among this realm of culture.
აქამდე წაკითხულთაგან ყველაზე ბნელი და ეპიკური და იმედია ამავე დუხში გაგრძელდება დანარჩენებიც.დაახლოებით 30%-ის შემდეგ მთელი წიგნი ერთი დიდი ექშენია მითრილ ჰოლის მიწისქვეშეთში.
გაუჩერებელი ბრძოლა და პოზიციების ცვლა, თუმცა მიუხედავად ერთი შეხედვით გაწელილობისა მაინც წყალივით მიდის.(view spoiler)[არტემის ენტრერი გასაგებია, ამოწურა დრიცის და მკვლელის დაპირისპირებამ თავი და ეს მონაკვეთი ერთი დიდი გრანდიოზული ბრძოლით უნდა დამთავრებულიყო, ამას ვხვდებოდი, მაგრამ როცა წინ კიდე 20 წიგნია ვულფგარის სიკვდილი სრულიად გამაოგნებელი იყო.კი მოკვდა ზუსტად ისე როგორც ბორომირი, სიკვდილამდე საშინლად იქცეოდა და თავისი თავგანწირვით ბრენორი და კეტი ბრი 100%-ან სიკვდილს გადაარჩინა, მაგრამ მაინც ძალიან მძიმე წასაკითხი იყო.
But the author just kept hammering on the worst points of the novel.The story already had a bad start with Catti-brie annoying self, saying "You can't kill the goblins, you have to talk to them first".Then Wulfgar tried to kill Drizzt for NO REASON.
Later is revealed that he was jealous of him for kissing Catti-brie on the cheek in a sign of friendship (Drizzt knows her since she was a child).
This is a forced nonsensical love triangle that was badly presented and event if it was well written, it should have no place on this story.I liked the insertion of the Drows again, Drizzt's sister an brother introduced in the previous books.
It was great to see what is going on in the lives of Drizzt and his friends after the Icewind Dale Trilogy.
I fell in love with the Drizzt series because of how well the characters were developed and I found them relatable, found myself rooting for them.
The story went by so quickly and I felt that further character development was missing in this book; that was my one regret.
My favorite parts of the books are Drizzt's journal entries.
I feel like I am always learning something new from Drizzt, and that's why I love this series.
For all of this big talk surrounding Drow I found them weak characters in this book and not at all as frightening as Salvatore tried to make them out to be.Also here are Salvatore's Three favorite lines in his books:1) Drizzt's eyes flashed.2) He reversed his momentum/grip.3) (S)he instinctively knew.I'm sort of getting sick of how weak everything seems compared to Drizzt. It seems like Salvatore has a crush on his own character which prevents him from ever doing wrong. It wears on me.
I read fantasy books to get away from the real world. They are, for better or worse, an escape. The first several of this series accomplished that. More recently, however, they have been straying into contrived, parochial issues of race and (with this book) gender that dominate today's world. Please, spare me. I get enough of these tired issues from the papers, the universities, and my Facebook feed. Will there ever be an end?
This entire book is just one long brawl in some caves. I'm not even exaggerating, it starts with something resembling a plot, then some people go to a cave and get ambushed, and the next 300 or so pages are one long chase through the tunnels with a fight scene on every other page. Blegh.
Another wonderful book that I have read several times, the most recent with my 8 year old son. Some people in their ratings and reviews are over critical and come off like pseudo-intellectuals. I say ignore them, read the books and be prepared to be fully entertained!
All of the characters are excruciatingly moody here - Wulfgar and Catti-brie are experiencing pre-marital troubles, Drizzt is caught up in worries over how his evil drow family has staged an invasion on the caves beneath Mithral Hall, Artemis Entreri is back and seething over how he needs to best Drizzt in a proper duel of blades and Drizzt's sister Vierna is so obsessed with tracking down her brother that she's practically insane.
The non-drow interactions that do exist are good, though, especially Catti-brie's and Wulfgar's problems.
This is the third Forgotten Realms book authored by R.A. Salvatore released in 1992 and the second in a row during that year's publishing schedule (after  Night Masks), and the first book in this line to come out in hardcover.
Perhaps the rapid publication schedule did not allow Salvatore time to include this chapter for the earlier hardcover release; he was clearly writing like a fiend at the time, with two different Forgotten Realms series and the non-D&D Spearwielder's Tale series in the works.
This is the first book in the Legacy of the Drow series.This time Drizzt’s lone remaining sister, Vierna, has been inspired by the spider goddess Loth to try yet again to capture Drizzt and sacrifice him.
When the next party fails to return, Regis volunteers to go with Drizzt to look into it.
Vierna and Dinen also appear to be dead, and Drizzt has reason to hope that, with all his relatives finally dead, he will no longer have to fear the Drow trying to get him back or kill him.
The best one in the series so far.
Salvatore's chops as a writer are visibly getting better, and the story line has grown to the point that the characters are taking on more of a three dimensional quality.
Salvatore improved upon his "random encounter" system he had throughout the previous three books, but over a hundred pages of this novel were a battle.
That's just too much, when we know what the outcome is likely to be.Salvatore did throw in a few surprises along the way, which are likely to play nicely into character progression as the novels advance.
Fun series.
It's probably the thing I love the most about this book, also it cleared a doubt I had for a long time: (Oh should I say spoiler now?)Entreri is not the equal of Drizzt, it was a magical dagger all along...
Yes he is a good fighter, an excellent fighter even, but it really upset me when it seemed like Drizzt Do'urden, the drow champion, could have a human equivalent.Also I was really sad about Vierna, she was one of my favorite characters.
But I expected Drizzt to be more sentimental about her demise, the last link to his family.
I think the main thing was that it felt more like just a set up for the plot of the next three books.
A lot of the book was constant battles without much else but this time around Salvatore just got really repetitive with how he described them so it blurred together quite a bit.
Still some aspects of it that I liked but got a bit dull at times and don't keep my interest as much.
I remember being super sad at the end of this book when I first read it though, and maybe the fact I knew a certain major event was coming also influenced how I feel about it now.
I'm rereading the Drizzt books and this is the series where R.A. Salvatore is at his most self indulgent.
He added more drow, more dwarves and as many battles as he could stuff in.
If I remember correctly the next 2 are equally as bad but I plan on reading them still the same.I remember why this was the series I stopped at because it was obviously a money grab but this time I plan on finishing the rest of them as some masochistic lent offering I guess.
