https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8719.Julian
”We are toys, and a divine child takes us up and puts us down, and breaks us when he chooses.” Julian IIJulian was a child raised in the midst of turmoil. After the death of Constantine the Great in 337AD, there was a huge power vacuum in the Roman Empire, and Julian’s cousin Constantius II methodically eliminated all those who could potentially threaten his reign or those of his brothers. One of those executed was Julian’s father. Julian and his brother Gallus were spared. Their youth may have
After the death of Constantine the Great in 337AD, there was a huge power vacuum in the Roman Empire, and Julian’s cousin Constantius II methodically eliminated all those who could potentially threaten his reign or those of his brothers.
Julian’s rise to power came relatively quickly after this mass conversion to Christianity, or Galileanism as Julian liked to refer to them because he didn’t feel they were very “Christian” in the way they conducted themselves.
Like his book Lincoln, Vidal brings the central characters to life in Julian and makes the reader feel the fear and uncertainty of Julian’s childhood.
I love Roman history. Had Julian (the Apostate) been less conciliatory, the Christians would have remained a fringe sect. Uncompromising themselves, and ultimately triumphant, the Christians stamped out what Julian loved most: knowledge.This book is written as letters between Libanius and Priscus, who discuss what to do with Julian's diary. Vidal's prose is sublime--always informing and entertaining, sometimes sharp and often funny. Historical fiction is rarely this good.
Before a civil war could result Constantius died.Julian's (Vidal's?) comments on power and the corrupting role of imperialism are as pertinent today as they might have been two centuries ago: " Wherever there is a throne, one may observe in rich detail every folly and wickedness of which man is capable, enameled with manners and gilded with hypocrisy." "I have often felt when studying history that not enough is made of those intermediaries who so often do the actual governing.
I don't know how or why anyone would let a thirteen year old withdraw this book from a public library but someone did, and it went a long way towards forming my mind.
The memoir, naturally, is the bulk of the novel.I don't know how to put this otherwise: this book, more than any other I've read in the nearly forty years since, made the ancient world come alive.
But forget that: this book is so good that I reread it every three to five years.Oh---funny thing about reading a 1963 novel when you're thirteen.
Covering the thirty-two year life of the last of the great Roman emperors, the story includes palace intrigue, a great deal of history, fascinating war campaigns and then ultimate betrayal.
The writings of Julian and the nearly contemporary writings of Theodoret in the 5th century AD are where Vidal drew much of his inspiration.***** This may be a spoiler for some *****The novel itself starts out when Julian and his older brother Gallus are young boys.
This military rule and battles with the Germanic tribes continued for three more years and Julian became very popular with the troops and the people who started to call him Augustus.
In my sad and maddening teenage years, I happened on my mother’s copy of the Oxford Book of British Verse and read through it with the doggedness I had at the time. One poem that hit me hard was Algernon Charles Swinburne’s Hymn to Proserpina, written in the voice of a Roman lamenting the passing of the old gods as Rome embraced Christianity. It begins with the line “Vicisti, Galilæe,” which, I am told, translates to “Thou hast conquered, Galilean,” and, I am told, was not said by the Emperor J
In my sad and maddening teenage years, I happened on my mother’s copy of the Oxford Book of British Verse and read through it with the doggedness I had at the time.
Viz, these: 	Thou hast conquered, O pale Galilean; the world has grown grey from thy breath;	We have drunken of things Lethean, and fed on the fullness of death.
On the occasion of Gore Vidal’s death, I thought to read one of his books, and more or less randomly picked Julian.
It ends with a powerful quote, spoken by Libanius, who has been informed that the current emperor will not allow him to publish a biography of Julian at this time.
I had a recollection of this book from ages back, but needed to retake it, and it was a good idea to read it following Ken Broeders' Apostate series, which also has Caesar Julian Augustus as its protagonist.
In contrast to Broeders' series, this book has a sober tone, sometimes rather too serious, yet doesn't entirely circumvent little bits of scandal and salacious morsels to enliven the story, which is a neat mix to keep readers entertained.
Very creative, though, and makes you feel for this apostate emperor and for what could have been if he'd not died so young whilst at the pinnacle.
I suggest that those who can not accept criticism of their Christian religion skip this book. The Roman Emperor Julian was totally offended by the Christians of the 4th century AD.I first read this historical novel back in the 1960's. I enjoyed it then and I enjoyed it even more now. This time I really picked up on Julian's flaws; 40 years ago I think I just was rooting for him to win (knowing, of course, he would ultimately fail) and I ignored this dark side. Gore Vidal did extensive research in preparation for this book and it shows.
This novelization gives the reader a good understanding of the social and political dynamics of this often neglected period of history.I expect that the scholarship is as accurate as the critics contend which makes this book not just fiction, but literature, and a major achievement for its author.The book begins with Julian's sheltered childhood as the nephew of the Emperor, who is always in fear that the males in his bloodline would rise up against him.
The uncle, claiming to be a Christian (the new religion that has taken root), has killed Julian's father and later his brother along with many more.
Façamos com que Juliano viva outra vez e para sempre.[de Libânio para Prisco]Gore Vidal desvenda Juliano através da pena do próprio.
Este escreveu " fragmentos de memórias" e à medida que o papiro é desvendado pelos filósofos Libânio e Prisco , estes mentores de Juliano trocam correspondência comentando passagens, ou seja, acontecimentos, personagens e até algumas falhas de personalidade, que Juliano julga não ter.
As suas medidas levaram à redução substancial dos funcionários do palácio imperial, à reconstrução e reabertura dos templos pagãos, à nomeação de sacerdotes para os mesmos e à proibição dos galileus ensinarem os clássicos (para estes não serem esvaziados do seu verdadeiro conteúdo).
When the killing begins, the emperor is no longer a man but a beast, and we have had too many beasts already on the throne of the world.” While this is no more than an illustrative way of citing the cliche that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely, it was still fairly poignant.Christian readers, even those without a fundamentalist bent, might find Vidal's hectoring through reformer/anti-Christian-crusader Julian a bit tough to take after awhile.
At the end of the day, I suppose the book Julian turns out to be good -- for its fourth century Roman history and attempt to explore the psychology of a ruler who had he lived a longer life, might have made our Western world a very different place.
Daca viata imparatului s-a desfasurat altfel decat in modul descris in acest roman, nici nu vreau sa admit adevarul ca realitate, caci pana la urma si fictiunea este felul sau de realitate.
Iulian Apostatul a fost ultimul imparat roman care sa se inchine zeilor pagani, ai romei.
"Gore Vidal structureaza romanul pe baza unei corespondente intre doi filozofi, apropiati ai lui Iulian, ce intreprind scrierea unei biografii a imparatului, bazata pe memoriile pe care acesata si-le a notat spre sfarsitul vietii.
O moarte pe care chiar el recunoaste este unica, pentru ca isi incheie viata cu un discurs asupra-i, lucru nemaifacut de vreun conducator al Romei.
Bevor ich eine Empfehlung für Gore Vidals Darstellung ausspreche, muss ich allerdings hinzu fügen, dass die Parallel-Lektüre von Edward Gibbons Fall und Untergang des Römischen Reichs viel zum Verständnis und vollen Genuss des Romans beigetragen hat, manchmal aber auch als die deutlich interessantere Lektüre an der Fiktion vorbei gezogen ist.Schwächen und StärkenGerade der Mittelteil (237-438 in meiner Ausgabe) ist Gore Vidal doch etwas fade geraten, der Weg zum Kaisertum bis zum Aufbruch zu fatalen Persienfeldzug und dem katastrophal verlaufenen Aufenthalt in Antiochia ist doch ziemlich eindimensional geraten, auch wenn die beiden Kommentatoren der (fiktiven) Kaisermemoiren schon in diesem Stadium eine gewisse Tendenz zur Verkennung der Realität aufgrund eines unwiderstehlichen Sendungsbewusstseins, konstatieren.
Per ricostruire la vita di un imperatore noto quasi soltanto per essere stato un rinnegato, Giuliano di Gore Vidal propone più che un romanzo storico una sorta di reportage, quasi un’inchiesta giornalistica.
Al personaggio cui Vidal intitola l’opera non viene dedicato, in genere, più di qualche rigo nei manuali di storia: come risarcimento per una gloria rubata da secoli di propaganda avversa, lo scrittore americano gli riserva un trattamento opposto, dipingendolo come ultimo ellenista, imperatore illuminato e tollerante, condottiero spregiudicato e pacato filosofo, che somma in sé le virtù militari di un Giulio Cesare, quelle politiche di un Ottaviano Augusto e quelle speculative di un Marco Aurelio.
Not usually a fan of historical fiction, I was drawn to this because I had decided to finally read Gore Vidal and I liked the idea of the plot: a Roman emperor attempting to squelch the wacky upstart religion of Christianity before it thoroughly took hold.
Despite the fact that I and many others born in the 20th century are unfamiliar with much of Greek and Roman history, the book is not at all off-putting, and you learn all about the goings on in the politics of the empire without ever being confused or feeling like you are having to learn history in order to read your book.
I started reading this book to learn more about 3rd and 4th century Rome and its politics as research for Rav Hisda's Daughter, Book I: Apprentice: A Novel of Love, the Talmud, and Sorcery, since Persia and Rome are often at war. To my astonishment, I could not put this book down. Vidal is an amazing writer, one whose talent I could never hope to reach. He takes us right into the heart of his characters, historical figures all, and brings them & all the Roman political intrigue of his time to life.
Φρεσκάροντας τις γνώσεις μου για την περίοδο που έζησε ο Ιουλιανός, συνειδητοποίησα ότι αυτό που είχα διαβάσει, ότι ο Gore Vidal μένει σε γενικές γραμμές πιστός στα ιστορικά δεδομένα, ισχύει.
Ο συγγραφέας μεταφέρει τον αναγνώστη στην εποχή των πρώτων χρόνων της επικράτησης του χριστιανισμού με ευκολία και σκιαγραφεί ένα πολύ ενδιαφέρον πορτραίτο του τελευταίου αυτοκράτορα που έμεινε πιστός στο ελληνικό πνεύμα και τη φιλοσοφία.
Ο πρώτος είναι ορθολογιστής και απορρίπτει την ιδέα της μετά θάνατον ζωής ενώ ο δεύτερος μοιράζεται τις αποκρυφιστικές και μυστηριακές τάσεις του Ιουλιανού.
Μοναδικό κοινό σημείο τους φαίνεται να είναι η αγάπη και ο θαυμασμός τους για τον ελληνιστή αύγουστο.Απολαυστικό βιβλίο.
The emperor Julian famously tried to arrest the spread of Christianity and reinstall Hellenism in the 4th century, and do so without bloodletting.
"othertime" in German--wherein the reader never feels that he/she is reading the 20th century conception of Julian but in fact is hearing from the real thing.
Julian (and his mentors who occasionally comment posthumously to each other) is a wonderfully realized and complex protagonist, maybe even a hero.Vidal has said that you could quibble with his art, but he would reach for his thesaurus if you faulted his research.
I find fault with neither.
Born in West Point, related to former vice presidents Aaron Burr and Al Gore and member of a prominent political family, Gore is credited with the first openly homosexual novel in American letters, the espousal of views generally to the left of the Democratic Party and general iconoclasm.
He is also a decent historian and humorous socio-political essayist.Julian is one of his historical novels, a defense of the last of the avowedly non-Christian emperors and of the best of the Hellenistic and Roman cultures which he is constructed to represent.
"Atheism", by which the ancients meant Christianity and its rejection of the gods, does not come across well.
The best book, hands-down, on everyone's favorite revanchist pagan emperor. If it was a person, I would kiss it. But it isn't, so I read it. You should, too.
Empezaré, valga la redundancia, por el principio, es decir, presentando al protagonista de esta obra: un, como lo dije antes, cuasi desconocido emperador romano, empero, uno cuya vida nada tiene que envidiar a los emperadores más famosos.
Por una parte, contamos con una narración en primera persona protagonista ya que Juliano relata su vida y sus acciones desde su óptica, así el libro nos relata de primera mano los acontecimientos tal como eran percibidos desde el más alto nivel del poder.
Gore Vidal does a good job of describing the man who attempted to undo the religious changes and bring back the old ways.I really liked the style he chose to write the book in - two old friends write letters to each other, reminiscing about the now deceased Julian.
You then read Julian's autobiography, interspersed with humorous and enlightening comments from both of these old friends.
The only drawback is the character of Julian gets repetative in his constant denunciations of Christianity.
The denunciations themselves didn't bother me in the least - they were actually pretty interesting the first time they were written.
It's historical fiction, and account of the life of Julian, who reigned briefly over the Roman Empire in the middle of the 4th century A.D. At this time Christianity was on the rise; Julian's predecessors were Christian, but he tried to take the empire back to paganism, restoring the worship of the old gods.
Midway through the book, it dawned on me how very differently history might have unfolded if Julian had live longer.
It's truly bizarre to think someone who lived some 16 centuries ago could have any influence on my life.
I don't read much historical fiction, but I've long been fascinated by the Roman Empire.
Me he encontrado con un libro maravilloso escrito de forma brillante por Gore Vidal en el que da vida y luz a un emperador no muy conocido ya que como ocurre tantas veces en la historia los perdedores siempre son olvidados.
El libro está escrito a 3 voces narrativas en las figuras de Juliano y de los filosofos Prisco y Libanio que sirven de contrapunto al emperador y hacen muy amena la narración.
Sin duda este libro tiene muchos puntos en común con Yo Claudio por la semenjanza en la vida de los dos emperadores protagonistas pero a mi este me parece mas accesible en su lectura que el de Graves.
Probably inspired by the aforesaid author, Vidal manages to create a compelling (and historically accurate) account of Roman Emperor Julian's (a.k.a. Julian the Apostate) life story, succesfully combining multiple narrative voices, thus bringing that neccessary and hailed multiperspectivity from the realm of historiography to the one of literature.
Of course, in 1964, this was no longer an original thing to do (another great American, Faulkner, showed us how it's done), but Vidal takes this "recipe" even further, by creating an indirect "dialogue" between the account almost synchronous with the events and the diachronic interpretation thereof.
I am nearly at the end of this book, around 100 pages left.
This is a book that takes a long time to finish.
This period of history when the power of Roman Empire divided between West and East was declining and the Dark Ages were replacing the glamour of Rome is not very well known.
Julian, the grandson of the Constantine, admire of Greek culture tried to reverse the empire back to the old gods.
I don't think there are many writers today who can write in the style of Gore Vidal and I am looking forward for more of his books.
A feast for the mind, this book is a memoir of the Roman Emperor Julian, following his life from the insecurity during the ruling years of a killer when he was a child, his love of studying and philosophy, and then becoming an emperor, through to his campaign in Persia, which was to bring an end to his reign. Written superbly, I couldn't help but be fascinated with the subject, and I am very curious about some aspects of Julian's life indeed.
And then, he wrote:  “I have been reading Plotinus all evening. He has the power to soothe me; and I find his sadness curiously comforting. Even when he writes: "Life here with the things of earth is a sinking, a defeat, a failing of the wing." The wing has indeed failed. One sinks. Defeat is certain. Even as I write these lines, the lamp wick sputters to an end, and the pool of light in which I sit contracts. Soon the room will be … ” One should read this to learn how novels are written. But, w
Of course eternity is larger than the brief span of a man's life, but to live entirely within the idea of eternity is limiting to the spirit and makes man wretched in his day-to-day existence, since his eye must always be fixed not on this lovely world but on that dark door through which he must one day pass.
Finally, one must oppose them because of their intellectual arrogance, which seems to me often like madness.” Then, in Julian's fast replies on the bishops "using their weapons in arguing" after Christians were accused of burning the temple of Apollo:“Fortunately, no lives were lost.
These two take swipes at one another and at members of Julian’s retinue, while exposing some of Julian’s blind spots and revisionist indulgences.Vidal’s Julian was something of a polymath, with a deep love for philosophy, a passion for leading armies into battle, and a reverence for the mysteries of the ancient Hellenistic religion.
As Vidal constructs Julian’s story, the strain of making room for all of these passions in one man is ultimately what undoes him.
And yet through Julian’s deploring ancient Christianity, Vidal voices harsh critiques of modern Christianity, pointing up the hypocrisies of power-hungry priests and the dangers of too much mingling of religious powers with state administration.
I think it's like Rashomon or Groundhog Day are perfect films; this is a flawless book.
You understand exactly why some people are Christians, some people refuse to be, and so on.This Late Classical period - so perilously close to the Dark Ages - feels tragic.
I was watching this Khan Academy video about the early Renaissance, and - just seeing the timeline of Classical Period -> Dark Ages -> Renaissance -> Modernism was a SHOCK.
The Dark Ages last a THOUSAND YEARS.
Like: I'm surprised both by how much separates me from Julian, and by how little.
