https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75234.Borstal_Boy
Autobiographical novel by Irish writer Brendan Behan.
Behan joined Fianna Éireann, the youth section of the IRA at 13.
The first part covers a two months stay in Walton prison in Liverpool on remand, this illustrates the brutality of day to day prison life.
The final part covers his stay at Hollesley Bay Borstal.
Behan writes well and captures the accents and tones of his fellow inmates very well.
There are working class young men from London, Liverpool, Scotland and the North East and Behan captures their voices accurately.
Behan captures the monotony of prison life, the importance of tobacco, of friendships, the variable food.
This was a dangerous time for Brendan Behan however his stoicism, guile and humour, and the few friends he made, helped him to deal with this challenging period.Once sentenced, and after a brief period at Feltham, Brendan Behan had the good fortune to arrive at Hollesley Bay borstal where he made many good friends, and where the enlightened approach of Prison Governor Cyril Joyce aka "the Squire" allowed the boys to work and flourish in a constructive environment.
Brendan Behan's descriptions of the various characters he encounters throughout his imprisonment, and the humour and humanity he describes, is compelling.
Borstal Boy is an autobiographical account of Brendan Behans arrest in Liverpool in 1939 for owning bombmaking material as part of an apparantly unauthorized solo mission to set off bombs for the IRA and subsequent imprisonment.The oddity of this book, particularly after the drumroll of sadness that was 2015 is its all written in a bit of a boys own adventure, fair cop guv and didnt we have a few laughs along the way style.
Brendan Behan saw himself as an Irish patriot fighting for freedom, but it is striking how little personal ill will he bore to either his English captors and fellow inmates and vice versa.
Yes, this kind of approach marries up well with the very conversational mode Brendan Behan is operating in, but it leaves me with the feeling sometimes that I'm missing out on key elements of the story.
I wan' ta know more about tha' part on the beach, ya ___t.' And he could fill me in, and I'd be a happy man: the inherent problem with conversational writing vs.
His humanity and his brotherly love of humanity develops through a considered response to this: not a bland rejection, but a way of recognition of how these kinds of processes work as lenses upon experience.
Warm, human, literate and intelligent. A terrific reading experience.( just to note : I was amused to read a review in which the reader lamented the lack of sodomy and violence. Were they reading the same book I did? Or is it that subtlety is lost on them? Was also a bit shocked to hear it described as 'boring' Perhaps folk's appetites have been so dulled by misery porn that they can't cope with more than a straight forward catalogue of horrors. Shame that, because it means the nuances and layers in this work have passed them by.)
Paddy's opening statement for himself says it all:"My lord and gentlemen, it is my privilege and honour today, to stand, as so many of my countrymen have done, in an English court, to testify to the unyielding determination of the Irish people to regain every inch of our national territory and to give expression to the noble inspirations for which so much Irish blood has been shed, and for which no many of my comrades are now lying in your jails."Prior to this book, all I knew about IRA were those I saw in the movies and up until now, I did not know that it was a major and long struggle.This is a semi-autobiography of Brendan Behan who used is own name in the novel and said to have meticulously related what transpired during his 3-year stay in Borstal.
★★★★✩ What better book to read on St. Patrick’s Day than Borstal Boy, by Brendan Behan? Niall Tóibín, Irish comedian and actor, narrates this one that is semi-autobiographical story of the author. After committing murder via an IRA bomb, a 16 year old boy is locked-up in three English detention institutions during WWII. However, Mr. Tóibín's accent (depending on the dialect he is doing) is so thick, I had to play back parts, though I did get used to it. Still, wonderful dialogue, jokes, slang words, and few great songs sung in Irish in this once banned book.
Прямая и безыскусная (при этом — дисциплинированная и разнообразная) тюремная проза — и роман взросления, и автобиография, конечно, и кладезь знаний о том, как было все устроено у поздних (ну или ранних, смотря как смотреть) боевиков ИРА в головах.
Даже если вы больше из нее не почерпнете, кроме того, как жить в ливерпулской тюрьме в 1939 году.Хотя на самом деле, конечно, это книга о поисках естественного прайда и нуль-родины.
Нет, в данном случае это не ИРА и не Ирландия, как ни странно.
Биэн отыскал подобных себе в той шантрапе, что населяла борстал (и управляла им), а они зачастую не были даже ирландцами.
Young loose cannon Behan of the IRA gets caught redhanded in England, and learns the system -- and the country that founded it- via its correctional institutions.
For a reader, some sixty years later, it's the language.
Keeping the governor in the dark is at all times critical.Burgess would mine this same vein years later, and more violently, with A Clockwork Orange, outlining the class-structure, sketching the institutional framework, and even going one further by inventing a hyper-slang (his nadsat, based on bits of cockney and soviet jargon).
In the condition of near-total captivity & forfeited control, as with incarceration in correctional institutions, the flowchart of information becomes critical.
Brendan tells his story of a childhood in Ireland to his involvement with the I.R.A. and his arrest and incarceration in the U.K.A great tale of a heavy life, with heavy drinking and flying fists the size of melons.
In 1939 sixteen year old IRA man Brendan Behan was arrested holding explosives which he was going to use to blow up the Liverpool docks, to strike a blow for Ireland against its age long imperial oppressor.
This is a rare glimpse into the 24/7 of a young man who is basically in the Irish version of Juvie for being an active member of the I.R.A.
For the reader who's been to Ireland even once, Behan will manage to make the sweet winds of the Emerald Isle tousle your hair and long to be there, though he inspires this longing from the confines of the British prison system even before The Troubles of the 90s, when Ireland and Britain were still pretty much at war.
Tradotto in Italiano da Luciano Bianciardi, come d'altronde si legge ne La vita agra: si dice spesso che da questa vicenda lo scrittore italiano abbia preso ispirazione per il suo libro.The Borstal Boy è una specie di memoir romanzato della propria esperienza nel carcere minorile, appunto chiamato borstal; Behan vi fu rinchiuso a sedici anni, nell 1937, dopo essere stato arrestato per possesso di esplosivi.
Nel leggere le sue memorie e i suoi racconti (molto belli) si intende chiaramente, ed è una cosa anche toccante, in un certo senso, che Behan fosse assolutamente consapevole di essere un personaggio letterario, uno stage irishman fatto e finito.
Brendan Behan, che era davvero una figura quantomeno vitale, è morto a 41 anni.
The book Patrick Leigh Fermor might have written if he'd been a teenage IRA bomber packed off to an English reform school in the '40s.Raised in a prominent Dublin family and well-educated, at age 16 the future Irish playwright Brendan Behan attempted to blow up Liverpool docks as part of an unauthorized mission for the IRA, at the start of World War II in 1939.
Behan was arrested and spent time in a rough English jail, then in a borstal for juvenile delinquents.
I was given a copy of this wonderful book by an Australian I met when travelling in Europe in 1990.
My Australian fellow-traveller had had it passed to him by a similar stranger.
I don't imagine that the copy lasted much longer, but you never know.It is that sort of book - you have to pass it on.
Behan makes no complaints, he came to England to cause harm and got caught by the authorities so he stoically suffers the consequences.His stoicism shines through the text - "What can't be cured must be endured" is his refrain.
Behan portrays himself as a proud Irishman, and a proud member of the IRA, but very well-educated and level-headed, as opposed to the frothing-at-the-mouth nationalist zeal you'd expect from someone in his position at that age.The only other works that spring to mind as good comparisons are the movies "The Shawshank Redemption" and "Cool Hand Luke." The book possesses the frank portrayal of prison life, society, social interactions, bonds, etc.
that were prevalent in "Shawshank Redemption," but Behan portrays himself far more in the mindset of Cool Hand Luke than Andy DuFresne (essentially possessing Luke's "you'll kill me before you'll break me" attitude.)
This book was hard at times with the cockney rhyming slang. But it was well worth it, because Behan changes from an idealistic IRA initiate to someone who realizes that it is impossible to live for an ideal. Borstal Boy is a good read for anyone who is conflicted about the disjunction between ideals and reality. In the end, as Behan would put it, it all comes down to people.
An excellent insight into the mind of a young man and his machismo, not matter how long ago - and no matter how bizarre the context! Well-written and often funny, even self-deprecating (intentionally????) this tale is sad and funny at the same time and definitely describes human nature.Behan was a most delightful writer.
Really glad I finally took up the book and read it. I watched the movie a few years ago and although I liked it, I like the book much better. It's more in depth and obviously more realistic, with a lot of songs that read like great poems. Sometimes it was a bit difficult to read because of the crossing out of some swearwords, but all in all I really enjoyed it.
My favorite book from my youth. I loved the dialogue, the ideas, and Brendan Behan.
It's a story about a guy who thinks the IRA are good but then he goes to jail and has a really good time in jail and then thinks the IRA are not quite as good as he originally thought
A lot more light hearted than I expected. One could learn a lot about diplomacy and getting along with people from Mr. Behan.
The narrative begins with a young Brendan, age 16, who is in Liverpool for the first time in his life.
Though Brendan is clearly culpable for his actions, he is also very young and his been indoctrinated by the IRA all his life -- most of his family are members.
From his description, I can imagine many young men would find Borstal a terrible experience, but Brendan faces it with courage.
The book is full of life: conversations between the young men, about sex, religion, crime and families are all recounted in vivid dialogue.
Moments, for example, like the one in which Charlie is smuggling apples for Brendan out of the orchard and the author observes that the apples are warm from being against Charlie's skin.Very little of what you see in the film actually takes place in the book.
However, this is never referred to by the author outright and so you reach this conclusion from the subtle hints (Charlie is not interested in talking about girls and takes great umbrage at the other boys derogatory jokes about homosexuality, for example) and a lot of reading between the beautifully nuanced lines.
As he was under 17, the maximum sentence he could be given was 3 years in a Borstal, the name at the time for young offenders' institutions in England, and he tells the story of that time in this book, published nearly 20 years later.The book could be split into 3 parts: his time on remand awaiting trial in the youth wing of an adult prison, where life is violent; his time in a central Borstal awaiting placement; and his time in the open Borstal that he was eventually sent to - which covered most of his sentence in fact, but only about a third of the book.
(I still have one category left, and I can make it.)So I ended up here, on Borstal Boy. I heard about Brendan Behan when I was sixteen or seventeen I imagine and had read some of his poetry for certain, and always thought I'd give this book a chance.
I can't remember how I came by Behan's name--perhaps it was to do with knowing there was a film of this book--and it was good to have a reason for picking it up, although the pressure of the year's end might have impacted my pleasure in reading it.
Additionally, the number of British characters who treat the Irish as barely sentient animals tugs our sympathies one way, even as Behan's adolescent certainties are modified by interaction with actual Englanders, even those in positions of authority.Apart from the background, the book is perhaps mainly a sociological study of the interactions of quite a few characters in a penal system which is depicted as being quite humane.
He got out of Borstal (juvenile detention) in 1941 at the age of 18.
The surprising thing is that he portrays the Borstal as rather pleasant, though maybe that's just because you see the prisons first, and it's a relief to get outside.
The British Empire had its boot firmly on the necks of the "lesser races" at the time, yet a 16 year old who acknowledged his membership in the IRA, and had a pack of explosives and plans to bomb the shipyards during the war, was sentenced to 3 years at an open prison with other boys.
The humor and general good nature of the lil IRA boy surprised me, and I thought it would be a depressing read, but it was the opposite.
I'd like to reread his biography and get to the dramas just to get a fuller picture, because I forgot most of what I knew about Behan other than his sad end.
I expected this to have way more boy-on-boy content after reading Behan's biography years ago, but there's quite a bit between the lines.
Reading the book is somewhat spoiled for me and the differences made in the adaptation are immediately apparent.
Whatever ratings the movie is given the book is not G rated.
Fully half the book deals with his stay in the English Prison System before he is ever sent to Borstal.
We are given the words of the author's extensive repertoire of Irish ditties in Gaelic as well as English.
On the other hand to say that the movie version of this book is a loose interpretation is to understate the case.
