https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32620332-the-seven-husbands-of-evelyn-hugo
(4.5) I’ve been struggling with a lot of books lately because I just don’t care about them.
I don’t care about the story.
I don’t care about the characters.
I just don’t care!
I thought it was all me, that I must have a cold heart but then this book happened.I thought this was a literary fiction but it read more like a chick lit.
A deep chick lit if that can even be a thing.
I cared deeply for the flawed characters in this book.
When reading a book heartless Emily does not cry.
Is Evelyn Hugo going to tell me just enough to keep me on the edge of my seat but never enough to truly reveal anything? I can't say for sure what drew me to this book. It's not the kind of thing I usually pick up, and I haven't read anything by Reid before. But something about it intrigued me. So I checked out the kindle sample. Just a couple chapters, I figured, because I probably wouldn't like it anyway. And I was HOOKED.It's perfect, easy beach read material. It's not particularly deep, it
Evelyn Hugo's story was so delicious and compelling that it stood out, and kept me turning pages in a desperate need to discover the stories behind her seven husbands, and the answer to the one question everyone wants to know: who was her greatest love?The framing of the story reminded me a lot of The Thirteenth Tale.
Like that book, in The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo, a young woman - this time an ambitious journalist called Monique Grant - goes to interview an elderly woman.
I want to be as motivated and focused in university as Evelyn Hugo was in continuing to flourish after all of her 7 divorces and getting richer than all of her 7 husbands combined....
This is the multifaceted story of a woman who's lived her whole life being two people, two images overlapping.
What I loved most about this book was how passionate it was in bringing to light so many important topics.Starting with being a woman in an industry that beholds women to its whims, its likes and dislikes, promotes them as sexual objects and loves to build a woman up before tearing her down.
“I spent half my time loving her and the other half hiding how much I loved her.”  This is one of the best books I’ve ever had the privilege to read.
It is probably in the top five for best books I’ve ever read in my entire life.
I have been looking for a book like this my entire life, and no combination of words I’m about to type, and you’re about to read, is going to do this masterpiece justice.
But I will say that Gabby, Joce, and Elyse were all right, and I’m so happy I listened to them, b
I have been looking for a book like this my entire life, and no combination of words I’m about to type, and you’re about to read, is going to do this masterpiece justice.
If you guys have been following my reviews, you’ll probably know that I talk about found family and how important it is to me a lot, but The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo is the epitome of how beautiful a found family can be.
The true romance in this book is the most romantic thing I have ever read in my entire life.
If I could recommend only one book for 2018, THIS would be it!THE SEVEN HUSBANDS OF EVELYN HUGO not only surpassed my already-lofty expectations, but knocked my proverbial socks off as it shot straight into the open arms of my favorites-shelf.
The exceptionally beautiful, world-renowned Evelyn Hugo spent most of her life doing whatever it took to not only become Hollywood’s most iconic female movie star, but to remain planted in the fickle grip of fame and fortune.
▪  Plot:The world’s most iconic movie star wants to tell her story and release her deepest secrets to a journalist who seems entirely random at first.▪ Writing: Smooth.
“Make them pay you as much as they would a white man.”  this book made me experience all five stages of grief and simultaneously made me feel every positive emotion in the world and I have no idea how that is possible. but listen, if you only read one book I recommend you this year, this is a good choice. ✨✨✨The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo is, yeah, about the seven husbands of Evelyn Hugo. Seven husbands who are sometimes awful and sometimes sympathetic and sometimes somewhere in between. Er
this book made me experience all five stages of grief and simultaneously made me feel every positive emotion in the world and I have no idea how that is possible.
She is a woman with a lot of ambition but also one who loves and wants to be loved.
I don’t… I don’t know if romantic relationships should be considered spoilers, but… well, I knew going in who the actual love of Evelyn’s life was and it STILL WORKED FOR ME.
All I know is I feel ruined for any other book, and I want you to be as well.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
Such a fabulous well crafted story! I'll be talking about it more in my stories I ate this month video going up tomorrow =) (Oct 9)
I am wholly enchanted by The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo and I will never forget how much I adore this book.CW: adultery, domestic abuse, death/grief, homophobia/biphobia, racismAdult fiction is not typically my cup of tea, especially a combination of historical fiction and contemporary with the amount of long flashbacks (flashbacks: ALSO NOT MY THING).
Evelyn Hugo is unforgettable in my mind and hearing her story was one of the greatest pleasures I think I have ever experienced as a reader.Personally, I didn’t LOVE Monique, though I am always happy to see another biracial main character in literature.
The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo is one of my favorite books OF ALL TIME.
I... don't even know where to start.This was absolutely FANASTIC, and I was expecting to love it (this is a 5-star predicted read) but I was completely blown away. The characters are utterly captivating and complex. The audiobook was wonderfully narrated. I am a FAN!
What an extraordinary and surprising read. Absolutely adored this one.
not to be dramatic, but if there ever comes a point in time where the fate of the human civilisation is coming to an end and we need to create a time capsule to immortalise our posterity, this book better be in it.
there has never been a more honest and enthralling book in the history of the world, ever.
its books like this which confirm my belief that fiction will always be better than nonfiction, because it would be impossible to find a biography that could paint the story of a womans life half as well as this did.
just the depth of this book was spectacular.
“Don't ignore half of me so you can fit me into a box. Don't do that.”   Let me go ahead and say that I had no idea what to expect from this book. When it first released, I remember seeing it everywhere, and I honestly didn’t take any interest in it until I was told about how diverse it was. It’s full of incredible representation: you’ve got bi rep, gay rep, lesbian rep, a Cuban woman, a biracial woman—so when I heard about all of that, I finally decided to give it a try, and I’m so glad that
Throughout the entire book, Evelyn is more or less laying her soul bare to Monique, this reporter who she’s asked to write her life story.
I feel like there is so much more that I want to say, but at the end of the day, it all boils down to one thing: The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo is one of the most brilliant pieces of writing I have ever had the pleasure of reading.
Ms. Hugo, 79 year old Hollywood legend, handled those 'wrong words' with grace, correcting - teaching- inspiring her new-friend at the time while having compassion for 'herself'.
I started reading 'slower' ( wanting to take in every word out of Evelyn Hugo's mouth), when I realized this Hollywood notable Starlett was sincerely deserving- and worthy of the fans she has -- a celebrity to love!!!
Evelyn wants Monique to write a book about her life story.
We wonder right away!!!We also want to know about Evelyn's life - her husband's - and which one she loved the most.
This has been one of the most well-developed, character driven stories that I’ve read.
Throughout the course of this book, I became enamoured with Evelyn Hugo.
I fell in love with her personality, her ugliness and facade of a life she lived for a while, and how accepting she became of the mistakes she made.
I think what I was missing though was the same type of intensity that I was feeling whilst reading the first half of the story - though I don’t know how much importance I should place on the ‘missing intensity’.
She's nearing the end of her life and she's finally ready to tell all about her triumphs and failures and she chooses a down-on-her-luck, little-known, surprise-to-everyone writer named Monique Grant to tell that story.All I've ever wanted was for you to be truly mine.
Why have I spent so long settling for less when I know damn well the world expects more?It was truly effortless to love Evelyn and this cast of characters.
I'm now facing one of the worst book hangovers of my life because I'm not ready to say goodbye to Evelyn and her story.
5/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐“People think that intimacy is about sex. But intimacy is about truth. When you realize you can tell someone your truth, when you can show yourself to them, when you stand in front of them bare and their response is 'you're safe with me'- that's intimacy.” This book is phenomenal. This book is spectacular. This book is outstanding. I have nothing negative to say about this book. It's a pure 5 star for me. I'm irrevocably astonished and astounded. I want to hug and kiss this bo
"I have no idea that in less than a week, Evelyn Hugo will finish her story, and I'll find out what this has all been about, and I will hate her so much that I'll be truly afraid I might kill her." LIKE???
The story kept me on my toes each time with its smart maneuvers, the schemes, the plans, everything the main characters did, all the choices they made, to dodge unfortunate situations.
We also got side representation, from not as important characters in the story.
The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo is a 2017 Atria Books publication.A story so well written I had to remind myself it was a work of fiction.
Evelyn Hugo is a faded movie star in advanced years who has decided to write her life story- a deliciously scandalous tell all with a sharp focus on her seven marriages.
The first question Monique asked Evelyn is:‘Who was the great love of your life?'It seems like a reasonable enough question, considering Evelyn’s numerous marriages, but it turns out to be much more complicated than what it may seem on the surface.
Because Taylor Jenkins Reid sets this book right in the heart of the old Hollywood era, and makes them so compelling and realistic, it honestly feels like they're real actresses and actors and producers and I have to keep reminding myself they're not.
despite the hetero sounding title, this book is very gay a large portion of this is about Evelyn Hugo explaining her love and on/off relationship with fellow actress Celia St. James.
I’m just sobbing on my couch. No big deal. I’ve been emotionally gutted, but whatever. This book had two of the most wonderfully fascinating complex female characters I’ve ever had the pleasure of reading about, BUT ILL BE FINE
I loved everything about this wonderful story; the well developed characters, the juicy plot, the interesting way in which it was written and the twist that I never saw coming- all of this from the very start had me totally hooked.
To be totally honest, I picked this up because I wanted some light hearted chic lit and whoa did I get way more than I bargained for.I think what hit me the most about this book was how much I felt for every character in it and the relationships that Evelyn built with them.
I finished this at 3am and then cried myself to sleep. This was truly remarkable. Evelyn Hugo is a character I won't get out of my head for a long time.
Spare yourself the grief and agony.Every time I closed this book and my brain snapped back to the present, it took me a couple of seconds to remember that Evelyn isn’t a real person.
Maybe it would have worked better being told in third person as if it were Monique's writing, but something about the voice of Evelyn's memories didn't sit right with me.I like how this book uses the perspective of hindsight.
This book let you assume whatever you wanted to about the characters, which I respected.Lastly, the most satisfying thing about this book is watching the growth of Monique alongside Evelyn telling her story.
Does that mean Harry, Celia and John aren't real?Google: I'm afraid so.me *starts crying like a baby*Google:The seven husbands of Evelyn Hugo is not the story of a beautiful actress who stood the test of time.
It's like watching a beautiful black and white movie where every character is complex, painfully human and most importantly NOT STRAIGHT.After hating so many hyped books lately, I'm happy to say that: 
I loved how beautiful this book was and I'm not talking about the writing.
It's the sadness and pain that brings this book to life and even more than that: The Characters.Evelyn Hugo is ready to bare it all in this book.
This is not only one of my favorite books of this year, but one of my favorite books I've ever read in my entire life.
4.5⭐This book is fucking spectacular.I’m blown away by the level of depth that this book had and the emotional toll it’s taken on my heart.
4.5⭐️This book is fucking spectacular.I’m blown away by the level of depth that this book had and the emotional toll it’s taken on my heart.
I loved every single thing about Taylor Jenkins Reid's The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo. I had been meaning to read it since it was published last year, but something else always popped up in front of it, until I decided I needed to see what everyone was raving about. And boy, did I ever!!Evelyn Hugo is a film legend. She is an Academy Award-winning actress, a philanthropist, a fashion icon, and, at her heyday, was one of the most stunningly beautiful women in the world. She retired from film
But at one point, she was the highest paid actress in Hollywood, and her intelligence and ambition helped get her there.As Monique listens to Evelyn's story, and is moved by the complexities of her emotions, she has her own emotional challenges to figure out as well.
But Evelyn also helps change Monique's frame of reference in certain ways, how she thinks of situations and people."It's always been fascinating to me how things can be simultaneously true and false, how people can be good and bad all in one, how someone can love you in a way that is beautifully selfless while serving themselves ruthlessly."The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo is compulsively readable, like one of those television miniseries you can't stop watching.
Reading this one by Talylor Jenkins Reid, gave me that same wonderful, guilty pleasure feeling.
But this one, I enjoyed so much more.This was my first Traveling Sister Group Read and it was so much fun discussing this one with everyone.
(Is that wrong to say?) So glad I read this one.For a fab review on how all the 'sisters' felt on this one, you can see the entire review by Brenda.
All of our Traveling Sisters Group Read Reviews can be found on the blog: https://twogirlslostinacouleereading.wordpress.com
This was phenomenal. So honest and raw, I just loved it.
Life is beautiful.But first off (I can call this first off if I freaking want to!!!) I wanna say: DON’T LET ANYONE TELL YOU THAT HISTORICAL FICTION CAN’T BE DIVERSE.
I wanted to watch the entire Evelyn Hugo canon after this, and then it was like, oh wait, she’s not real.I don’t have much else to say.
I’m just going to cut off this review here before I risk, like, accidentally mentioning that Evelyn Hugo’s third husband turned her into a vampire and she was a vampire the whole time and she turns Monique at the end of the book.*Damn it!Bottom line: This is very fun and cool and maybe even important.
regardless of your gender, your sexuality, reader or non-reader, no matter who you are or where you come from, you should read this book.it fundamentally changed me as a person (and i'm not just saying that, i truly feel like i'm a completely different human being coming out of this).
so, what is this book about?to put it simply: it is about a woman having seven (7!!!) husbands, but truly loving only one woman her entire life, but it is about so much more than that.
her characters are nothing but authentic, the way she tells her story is exceptional and she makes everything feel so incredibly real, i absolutely can't wait to read more of her works.
