https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23278537-the-little-paris-bookshop
For the record, every review I write is “honest.” I don’t shill for anyone, but I am a great lover of books, and maybe what I’m guilty of is enjoying what there is to savor in any book over what are perceived weaknesses.
Balzac had a character in Lost Illusions who wrote positive and negative reviews of the same book for different publications.
He is known far and wide as the literary pharmacist who places the book the reader needs most in their hands.
I read this book at the right time, almost as if Perdu had pressed it into my hands himself.
There are even medicines — sorry, books — that were written for one person only.(Bonus points if you suspect that there is one such medicine, er book, for Perdu himself.)Poor, sweet Monsieur Perdu has been heartbroken for the past 20 years, ever since the love of his life, Manon, suddenly left him, leaving only a letter.
Manon had a baby girl before she died; she is now grown up and falls in love with Max, Perdu's writer friend.
Meanwhile, Perdu has fallen in love with Catherine, the neighbor who forced him to read the letter.
It's like the equivalent of a panoramic view of a gorgeous Paris landscape with an old man in a trench coat suddenly jumping out and flashing his junk at you, hollering "hoogalie boogalie!" It's quite the opposite of romance.The only good that came out of me reading this drivel is that I inadvertently learned about book villages throughout Europe and the world (they cruise the book barge through one in Cuisery, France).
Please write the book I was expecting to read from this deceptive blurb: a novel about a mysterious dude who travels around on a boat filled with books he uses to treat and heal patients, a literary apothecary of sorts.
Nina George's lyrical tribute to love, literature, people, living, dying, and all things French...was a privilege to read.
I hope I'm not the the only 1 person this book was written for -- but just in case: "THANK YOU, *Nina George*.
This book is worth reading if for no other reason than to discover all those fabulous quotes!!...This novel is for people who love books & life!...Who have a special heart for Paris...
There is a wonderful-bitter sweet- emotional story -- from start to finish!I LOVE "The Little Paris Bookshop" Thank You Crown Publishing, Netgalley, and Nina George ....
Sadly I didn't love this one like I was expecting. I loved the bookishness - from the Literary Apothecary to Perdu's ability - and the setting, plus there were some great quotes. However I struggled with the story and I lacked a connection to the characters. In theory, this book is perfect for me but I just feel like it was missing something - maybe just for me personally.
The premise of the story was just utter magic to me - a bookseller hands out books like medicine to people who need them; it sounded perfect, lovely and magical and so I commenced.
He lives in a wonderful apartment block with some great characters, especially the author, Max Jordan, who takes Jean under his wing.The story then sank (pun intended) without trace for me, sadly, as I felt it became a tale of a group of males who travel the waterways of France, each learning a little of each other along the way.
Disclaimer: ARC via Netgalley There is an independent bookstore in Philadelphia called Joseph Fox. It is smallish – one floor, a big first room, a passage, a back room, and a smaller backer room where the children’s books are kept. Every conceivable space is packed with books. Does it have the selection of the big chain store or of Amazon? No. And it doesn’t offer discounts either, though it does give away bookmarks.  But here’s the thing. You can walk into that bookstore and find four books tha
You can walk into that bookstore with only a general idea of the book you’re looking for, just a summary, and the staff will know which book you want.
You can walk in there wanting a book but not knowing what and leave with the perfect thing.
There is much good to be said for the chain stores and Amazon, in particular when you live in the middle of no-where, but the worse is those people who never discover that amazing independent bookstore – either because the reader refuses to leave the computer store or because the independent store closes due to lack of sales.
The reviews are so misleading. What a disappointment! Only one person in our book club liked it. The rest of us just plowed through, hoping it would be over. It was certainly not my cup of tea. The story could have been told in 50 pages, and the rest of the story was just meandering emotion.
The author may have 'borrowed' the idea of the books as medicine for the soul ( I thinks she gives credit to German author Erich Kastner for the theme of the floating library peniche), but she deserves recognition for turning this basic principle into a wild, fanciful journey from the quais of the Seine through the navigable canals of Central France, all the way down to sunny Provence and the beaches of the Cote d'Azur.Our guide, or pharmacist, is Jean Perdu, a 50 year old man who has built an impregnable armour around his heart after losing the love of his life some twenty years ago.
Livros - O Nosso Agora E Sempre"As memórias são como os lobos.
Não as podes trancar num quarto e esperar que te ignorem." Mas...há os livros:Os livros protegem-nos ...Da tristeza.Da ignorância.Da falsidade.Plantam risos e lágrimas emprestadas.Elevam a auto-estima.Revestem-nos de amor, força e sabedoria.
Descobrimos quem somos.Quem queremos ser.Aprendemos.Mudamos.Evoluímos.Amamos, odiamos, sofremos, rejubilamos.São vida por dentro.São abrigos, magos, mestres e companheiros!...A escolha é nossa: Livros ou...Uma leitura obrigatória para quem ama livros!Leiam as primeiras páginas e fiquem grudados!Eu cá fiquei!...
Não só grudei, como A-D-O-R-E-I !Se antes os amava, agora adoro-os!Porque os Livros...
Os Livros são o nosso Agora e Sempre...É um 4 acoplado a uma sequência infinita de "+".Ora isso dá...
Very, very emotional.This is ironic, as the author, Nina George, is actually German, although she now lives in France (which doesn't surprise me, as her soul is French).And yes, it's yet another homage to the vanishing independent bookseller, but it's much more than that.
He owns a book barge on the Seine where he is a "book apothecary", reading people's souls and "prescribing" books for what ails them.But Perdu is hurting more than anyone around him, although he shares this with no one.Physician heal thyself....Twenty years ago, a woman he adored, Manon, left him without a word.
The book started out with possibilities:There was monsieur Perdu: - ' the king of this world, a literary pharmacist, who writes prescriptions for the lovesick;"…My name is Jean.
Like a short, torrid love affair."AND:"…Let’s stick to Monsieur Jordan for the moment.
I don’t read any books in which women like — crop up.
There was also the young Maximillian Jordan, the author, who simply could, and would, not leave Perdu alone.Monsieur Perdu inspired all and sunder to read and cure themselves through novelistic potions he concocted for them.
He advises one: “With all due respect, what you read is more important in the long term than the man you marry, ma chère Madame”But the arrival of a new tenant, the heart-broken Catherine, sets in motion a train of events that see Perdu opening a room in his apartment (and in his heart) that has been sealed for twenty-one years.
As the story unfolds, Perdu shares proposed entries for his “Great Encyclopedia of Small Emotions” as well as some profound observations on human nature: “The trouble is that so many people, most of them women, think they have to have a perfect body to be loved.
One hug, and you think you’re going to shatter and be lost”“It’s strange that magnificent, good-hearted people like him don’t receive more love.
jean was left a letter by his departing girlfriend (again, a literal 'dear john' letter), but he could not bring himself to read it for more than 20 years.the book, at moments, reminded me of The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry or The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry - both charming, nice novels with interesting premises and some endearing secondary characters.
as i was reading, i was marking the authors and books mentioned in the story.
I'm giving up in this one. Life's too short to read books that bore me....
A man with his own broken heart who can read people and give them books to help their situations.
The famous focus of the book though is Monsieur Perdu's barge on the water full of wonderful books.
At home Perdu is helping out a neighbor, Catherine, with books and a table because her husband ran out and took everything while she was gone one day.
She was to be married to a man she truly loved, but wanted to stay with Perdu too.
Along the way Perdu picks up an old friend named Cuneo who decides to go on he journey with them.
3 Jahre stand dieses Buch ungelesen in meinem Regal und jetzt frage ich mich: Wie konnte das passieren? Es gibt nur ganz wenige Bücher in meinem Leben, die mich so berührt haben, die so voller Wahrheit, voll schöner Worte sind und die mich so zum Weinen gebracht haben.
But then our bookseller Perdu takes off on his bookselling boat on a river road trip.
He picks up this wierd young writer who wears earmuffs all the time and it becomes a farce.
Unexplicably Perdu abandons the boat for a car trip (the map in the front of the book gives this away so this is not a spoiler).
Perdu is on a search for a lost love and avoiding any new ones.
Anyway I've already invested too much time in reviewing this unsatisfying book, sigh.
I just cannot get into this. Is it the structure, the translation, me, what? Based on other poor ratings and general boredom I am giving up. Other books are waiting.
What did I think? At first I thought "Whats not to like?". A book about books and Southern France, perfect for a rainy summer day and I immediately fell for Jean Perdu.The name game wasnt lost on me, a man in a mature age, lost in himself, in his past and his happy and unhappy memories. He could have been "The Steppenwolf" or even the narrator in "À la recherche du temps perdu", but hes neither. He is a man with a mission, he is a literary apothecary, caring for all the lost souls but his own wi
A book about books and Southern France, perfect for a rainy summer day and I immediately fell for Jean Perdu.The name game wasn´t lost on me, a man in a mature age, lost in himself, in his past and his happy and unhappy memories.
Which books made you cry because they touched some deep memory, which books were like your reflection in dark waters or which books inspired you to live, love and do great things.
Even "The Little Paris Bookshop" can hardly be considered Nobel material, it did the trick for me.Happy reading.
Who can resist the idea of a book barge on the Seine in Paris where the bookseller, Jean Perdu, uses his intuition to select just the right book to deal with whichever emotion - small or large - is afflicting you?
On her website (http://www.nina-george.com), Nina George says:It took me 20 years to become famous overnight—from 1993 to 2013, when The Little Paris Bookshop landed on the bestseller list.
In the book, we go on the journey of Perdu as he moves from being lost in grief to slowly reclaiming himself and his life.
Oh my gosh! This book is so beautifully and poetically written! I just think everyone should read it! I want to meet someone like Jean Perdu.
I think journeying outside my comfort zone challenges me and helps me retain perspective as a reviewer which is how I found myself staring down a copy of Nina George’s contemporary romance, The Little Paris Bookshop.
I didn’t connect with any of the characters and I couldn’t rouse much enthusiasm for their personal trials.
I wasn’t buying the story George was peddling, but I liked her point of view and how she captured the heart and soul of the literary community in plain black and white text.At the end of the day, The Little Paris Bookshop wasn’t my cuppa tea.
I love books about bookstores so I was excited to start "The Little Paris Bookshop".
Perdu senses people's needs and problems, and prescribes books that are perfect for each customer.
Unfortunately, he has been unable to deal with his own heartache since the love of his life left him 21 years ago.
Their journey exposes them to all the sensory delights of life--the beautiful French countryside, wonderful food and wine, interesting people, and words of wisdom.Their trip sounds like a magical journey that most of us would love.
I chose this book right away because I think it's something like Chocolat (knew it from the movie, not the book), and it's a book about books!
I knew there would be so many books told here.
I didn't really like how it was told, the plot, I mean.
Though I like some quotes presented in this book.
I was about to give it three stars, btw, but while I was writing my complete review in my blog, I changed my mind.
I gave a half star more as a bonus because so many quotes I like, lol.
It's just the plot that got in the way to the four stars rating.
Jean just came across as a fool who somewhere along the way mistook lust for love, and ruined his whole life over it.
In fact, there was just way too much lust and not a whole lot of real love in this whole book.
And though much of the language and descriptions were quite poetic and lovely, it seemed like the narrator, Jean, Manon, and even Manon's mother all had the same voice: the author obviously loves beautiful language, but it didn't seem real to me that everyone would write that way.
The book starts in Paris and our bookseller, Jean Perdu, travels partially by boat and then by car to Sanary-sur-Mer on the Mediterranean.
Lastly, I came to like many of the characters and they are (amazingly) sticking with me.But there were not enough of those good things for me to endorse this book.
I didn't get the feeling that this bookshop was little and 2/3 of the book does not take place in Paris - since the bookstore was on a boat, he took it with him.
Putting the right novels to the appropriate ailments:that's how I sell books"Fifty year old John Perdu considers himself a dispenser of literary medicine for ailments of the human soul rather than a mere bookseller.
From his barge, the Literary Apothecary, moored on the Seine in Paris he dispenses books to cure people of their ailments, whether it be sadness, disappointment, anxiety or a lost love."Whenever Monsieur Perdu looked at a book, he did not see it purely in terms of a story, retail price and an essential balm for the soul; he saw freedom on wings of paper" "Perdu reflected that is was a common misconception that booksellers looked after books.
Γλυκήτατο βιβλίο που περιγράφει την εξέλιξη των σχέσεων και το πώς αυτές διαχειρίζονται με την παρέα καλών φίλων και καλών βιβλίων!Στα μπόνους οι συνταγές γαλλικής μαγειρικής που υπάρχουν στο τέλος καθώς και μια λίστα με προτεινόμενα βιβλίαΑξιοσημείωτες ατάκες:Τα βιβλία κρατούν τη βλακεία μακριά.
Μια γυναίκα ποτέ δεν σε αγαπά με τον ανόητο τρόπο που οι άντρες αγαπούν τις γυναίκες.
Δεν σ' αγαπά επειδή έχεις ωραίες γάμπες ή επειδή είσαι τόσο όμορφος με κοστούμι που οι γυναίκες συνάδελφοί της τη ζηλεύουν όταν σε συστήνει.
Υπάρχουν και αυτές οι γυναίκες, αλλά μόνο ως παράδειγμα προς αποφυγή για τις άλλες...
O livreiro de Paris, The little Paris bookshop são apenas títulos comerciais e que não representam a história real.
É uma história de como os mal-entendidos podem levar a grandes erros e perdas ainda maiores.
São aqueles momentos em que fica difícil mudar de página, seguir em frente.Nina George escreve de forma simples, mas absolutamente arrebatadora.
Nunca mais vou olhar para o Tango da mesma forma.No final temos receitas para os males do estômago e também medicamentos de acção rápida para o espírito e o coração.Sanary-sur-Mer
