https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/480054.Sphinx
Sphinx is not the usual medical thriller by Cook but an adventurous mystery set in Egypt. I liked it at the time, but to be honest I prefer his medical stories.
I read this book back when I was maybe in the 10th grade so it suffices to say I don't remember much of the main plot line at all except that it had nothing to do with medicine and the mystery was based in Egypt. I wouldn't mind reading it again if I find a copy to refresh my memory...
She essentialy gets involved in an in-fight between the various fractions of the Black Market selling Egyptian archaeological artifacts and the ministry responsible in stopping the traffic and selling of Egyptian treasures.
But still there are worse books to read than this archaeological thriller.I started this book a year ago but somehow my Kobo Glo HD stopped doing the glo bit and it was not until I got a new e-reader that I could continue the story.
Just because he didn't try to kill her didn't automatically mean he was trustworthy enough to get naked with (which turned out to be completely right as he eventually admitted to being a cheating bastard with a wife and two children back home in France) or to allow him to put her life in danger for his monetary gain.Originally I was thinking this was going to be an easy four star read, despite Richard's chauvinistic attitudes because Erica refused to buckle under his expectations of what how his little woman should behave.
Hastaneler, tahliller, durum degerlendirmeleri yuzunden elimde istedigimden fazla kalan #Heykel en nihayetinde bitti.
Daha once #RobinCook'un iki kitabini okumustum ve okuduklarima dayanarak medikal gerilim yazdigina kanaat getirmistim.
Oysa Heykel hic de oyle degildi.
Genc bir misirbilimcinin kendini ispat etmek ugruna Misir'a gittigi ve aniden kendini sanat eseri kacakciliginin orta yerinde buldugu bir hikaye okumayi hic ama hic beklemiyordum.
Bana daha ziyade #CliveCussler'in kitaplarini animsatti.Kitapla ilgili asil sorun cevirisiydi.
Fakat asla ama asla misirbilimi terimlerinin cevirilerinin farkliligini sindiremedim.
Dunyaca unlu yazarlarin kitaplarini baskisi tukenmis katliamvari cevirilerden okumamaliyiz.
Cunku ameliyat oncesinde, sonrasinda, oram buram kesilmis vaziyette hastanede yatarken neden medikal gerilim okumayayim?
3.5A decent thriller with a side of Egyptian mystery, this was a quick and engaging read.
While I didn't really care about the protagonist so much, and wondered why she kept assessing how beautiful she looked each day in her mind (is this how men believe women think?
When I was in Egypt, the last thing I cared about was how my tan set off my dress), the novel had a good plot that kept one guessing, especially about the ancient-Egyptian aspect of the mystery.Recommended if you like adventure stories with female protagonists, especially if you have an interest in ancient Egypt.
And if you've been to Egypt, it's fun to revisit it through this book.

Perhaps this was Robin Cook's thinking:"Sphinx" = Egypt"Sphinx" = riddle"Riddle" = mysterySphinx = mystery in Egypt.In any case, no sphinx figures into the plot of this novel, but it is an Egyptological mystery/thriller.Young, beautiful Egyptologist Erica Baron, while on a sort of working vacation in Egypt, unexpectedly gets taken into the confidence of a black market antiquities dealer.
When the dealer is murdered and the statue stolen, Erica finds herself drawn into a world of black market intrigue and treasure hunting.This is Cook's followup to Coma.
From then on, she meets a few people, Yvon and Ahmed, who claim that they want to help her as they are trying to stop the black market on antiquities.
At the end you finally get to see (read), who really has their interest in trying to stop/slow down the black market.I know this was one of his earliest written books and the writting is not the best but I enjoyed the story line as it was a change from other Robin Cook books, but I do enjoy a good medical thriller.
This Book is totally adventurous and so fiction in it. Erica is so intelligent and brave.Hope is the best medicine to get anything you want.The valley of kings and queen.And while reading this book, my whole memory spent in Egypt was coming to live, the Giza Pyramids and the desert, the scorching heat. Thank God i entered in one of the tomb
Und das ist nicht der letzte Mord…Der Fluch der Sphinx aus der Feder von Robin Cook stammt aus dem Jahre 1979.Die Geschichte um die junge Ägyptologin Erica Baron konnte mich nicht wirklich auf eine Reise durch Ägypten mitnehmen.
Auch die Auseinandersetzungen mit ihrem Lebensgefährten, die bis fast zur Hälfte des Buches immer wieder eine Rolle spielten, waren für die Geschichte völlig überflüssig und zehrten auf Grund der Dialoge schon manchmal ein wenig an meinen Nerven.Die Geschichte selbst hatte wenig Neues zu bieten, ob das 1979 anders war, kann ich heute nicht mehr wirklich beurteilen.
I read almost all the books of Robin Cook and this is the one I like less.
While looking into the blackest of the black market in search for a precious statue she also has the time to solve some ancient mystery overlooked by professional archeologists in decades of work.I probably don't like the novel because I've only read Cook's medical thrillers, which I truly enjoy, and I don't think he added much to the genre with this exploit into an exotic location.
3.5 stars. Overall a good read, with lots of exciting scenes in fantastic settings, but the author seems to have trouble in getting a life-like woman on paper. The negatives are 1) the naive, oblivious heroine who has a doctorate but no judgment at all and who manages to escape major injury despite herself, 2) the awkward, unrealistic dialogue whenever she is involved in the conversation, and 3) the author's propensity for having most of his male characters fall in love with her at first sight. The rest of it was enjoyable....really!
Moving away from his forte ( medical thrillers ), I think robin cook has done a great job in writing a novel that encompasses history ( ancient Egypt ) and the current situation in Egypt. Also, I love the character of Erica. She is beautiful, smart and is damn good at what she does.All in all, if you are a robin cook fan, you must read this book. It will give you a different angle of his writing capabilities.
Rating Clarification: 3.5 StarsPage turning beach fare. Still pretty entertaining after 35 years, although the late 1970's/early 80's *feel* creeps up now and again.
Although far-fetched at times I still found this an enjoyable read. Being a history nut anyway I really enjoyed some of the archeological aspects of the storyline.
Ni fu ni fa. Desarrollo "tranquilo" y con pocos altibajos emocionantes realmente.
Read this book a long time ago. However, loved it so much I searched a while to find the title. Egypt and mystery.......it was a fabulous read! Would like to read it again.
An entertaining read.
Week 46, Book 86Sphinx by Robin CookRating: 3/5I'm way behind my challenge, but I'm glad after a long time I finished a book.
I came to know about this book through the Senior Reading Raccoons group when looking for historical fiction based on Egypt.
I am fascinated by ancient Egypt and in another life I'm sure I'll study to be an Egyptologist.
The events are very movie-like..
In fact I believe there was a movie made on the novel back in the 80s.
For those looking for an engrossing read based in Egypt, id suggest you pick this up!

This is the first Robin Cook book that I have ever read. Currently I am a British expat living in Cairo and this book was magical for me as his descriptions of places like khan el khalil souq are so true to life even 3o years after the book was written. Loved the book and even went on to track down the 1980's film of the book and watched this as well.
One of the early books by Robin Cook, this one is kinda slow and takes time to grip the reader into the plot. I liked it because it let me see how Robin Cook, one of the authors I really like, started writing fiction!
Es buena, entretenida y me ha encantado la "visita" a Egipto, pero me ha parecido muy fácil todo. La protagonista sale de todas las situaciones con relativa facilidad sin tener la menor preparación, eso le ha restado credibilidad a la historia, aun así, me ha gustado.
Erica Baron is an Egyptologist (a what??) who travels to Egypt to explore. She stumbles upon a huge antiquities black market scandal. Love. Murder. Pharaohs.
I know I've read this before .... but I really did not remember it. Totally glad I decided to re-read it. A fascinating look at the black market for antiquities.
First read this book in high school. Re-read it again recently and I really enjoyed it both times .
Clever book..Take your breath and jump in this book...
It's my first Robin Cook book. Not really a literally novel about Ancient Egypt. It's more of the category Tintin (by Herge) lol.
290
