https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/743672.The_Genocides
It had been a long time since his father had given a good sermon against atheism and the Supreme Court.”The Genocides differs from its peers in that it is not human beings who are the cause of earthly destruction but a mysterious alien race which uses the Earth as a plantation within which human beings, and apparently all other living things except a highly invasive species of plant, are merely vermin.
THE GENOCIDES is a disturbing book: full of violence, unlikable characters, and an ending that will leave most people either flustered or upset...but, on the other hand, this is a very cool story.
Yeah, I know, it sounds like a cheesy B-movie.
There wasn't one character that I found I liked.
The invasion aspect of this novel would have been more than enough to satisfy my reading needs; but Disch also fully fleshes out the survival story, which kept me turning pages and wondering who was going to die next?
If you are looking for a quick, philosophical read that is not the normal science fiction lot, this book is it.
At one point in this novel a character expresses the view, "I'm not sure if we've been invaded or if they're just spraying the garden." Aliens have seeded the Earth with giant Plants that tend to eliminate all other plants by out-competing them for basic resources such as water and sunlight.
It feels depressingly realistic.The story is interesting and the bleak but realistic idea that if aliens with interstellar travel technology turned up here and didn't like us we wouldn't stand an - Earthly?
Really, this is the fictional equivalent of the extra-ordinarily influential popular science work, Silent Spring.
The only other Disch novel I have read is Camp Concentration, which I did enjoy slightly more.
This is a violent book, more than I expected, which is silly on my part considering the title.What really convinces me that Disch was an excellent and underrated author (maybe less known over underrated since this book was nominated for a Best Novel Nebula) is that I disliked every single character in this book and still love the story, was still incredibly bothered by what I read.
I have nothing negative to say about this book and after reading what I just wrote, I'm rating a final 5 stars.
His revenge on Anderson for killing his partner, is slow and cunning and pits the old patriarch's children against each other and against him, as the devastated group is forced to seek shelter underground in the roots of the Plants themselves.'The Gencocides' was Disch's first novel and suffers from a common fault of first novels, and of 1960s sf, in having a great concept but being really rather aimless for long stretches (see also Brian Aldiss's 'Hothouse' as another example of this).
There's a scene in this book which, I must reluctantly admit, is quite the definitive example of... I'm sorry. I'm just about to make dinner, and I don't want to ruin my appetite. But trust me, it's definitive alright.
In the wake of all this chaos, mankind progressively loses its humanity.A certain colony of survivors in the American Midwest resists, but things begin to change.
The Plants' destruction of civilization is more a force of nature than something born from malice, which only adds to the terror.Somehow, the book feels incomplete.
The plot becomes a little unconvincing as the book progresses, and many questions are left unanswered.
The characters however, manage to feel authentic.While the premise is interesting and the characters' struggle against this unyielding, impersonal terror fill you with dread, the book doesn't manage to satisfy you.
Frente a las tradicionales historias de invasión, basadas en la resistencia ante el poder superior, el triunfo del ingenio, el enaltecimiento de los mejores sentimientos humanos, opone unos alienígenas que apenas actúan para conseguir sus propósitos (salvo en una brutal aparición).
En cómo sublima los más bajos instintos de sus personajes, en la brutal ironía tras su tremenda devastación, en su inexorable rumbo hacia la extinción de toda la vida sobre el planeta.
Además es un torpedo de unos cuantos kilotones lanzado contra el ambiente reaccionario en el que Disch se crió en el medio oeste estadounidense durante las décadas de los 40 y los 50.
I think this is Disch's first novel, and the writing, characterizations, and ideas are pretty amateurish compared to his later work.
During the first 30 or 40 pages, I was frustrated at the crude and unpleasant characters, so I read the rest of this short book very quickly, almost skimming, and enjoyed it more that way.
Also, the ideas in this book had more significance for me since I just watched Food Inc. Still, I would only recommend it for Disch completists and the rest should read 334, Camp Concentration, or On Wings of Song instead.
http://conclusionirrelevante.blogspot...(...) En general a Los Genocidas, aunque es una buena novela, le ocurre lo que a tantas óperas primas: quiere contar demasiadas cosas y al final acaba contando lo justo, sin centrarse muchas veces en lo importante: los personajes.
Su autor, que la escribió con apenas 25 años, consigue explorar con notable clarividencia las posibilidades de un escenario devastado en el que se ha reducido a lo que queda de la especie humana a la mera condición de parásitos.
Seguramente hubiese logrado una victoria incontestable.
Darkly funny. In Disch's future mankind is simultaneously reduced to worms, while remaining the self-mythologizing hacks we are today. He challenges the significance of the myths and presents nature as the true prodigal.
There is almost something reminiscent of "The Grapes of Wrath" in the books opening chapters, both because it deals with a region that was been ecologically devastated, although in this case by giant space plants that have crowded out all of the indigenous, and because of the focus on the deep seated dissatisfaction felt by some of the main characters, particularly Buddy.
While this made it a quick and entertaining read, I do feel like the book could have used another 70 pages or so to flesh out some of its ideas and character relationships.
Seven years have passed since the plants arrived and the human race has dwindled to handfuls of survivors who fight for food and shelter, killing anyone who dares threaten their provisions or simply cross their path.
An awful and disgusting moment occurs early in the story when out of duty (not necessity) half a dozen people are killed and eaten at a Thanksgiving feast.
The characters are well developed and endearing even in their brevity while the landscape is enjoyably fictional with close ties to the real world and real problems of food shortage and human “civilization”.
Reseña: http://www.fabulantes.com/2014/01/los..."Además de un producto personal, Los Genocidas encaja también a la perfección dentro de su tiempo.
Disch introduce mediante una exposición rigurosa, avanzada para los estándares de la época, conceptos e ideas fundamentales sobre la ecología y el medio ambiente.
Mientras describe el nuevo ecosistema producido por la intervención alienígena, tiene también tiempo para observar las consecuencias sobre el deterioro del ecosistema anterior; así, presenta el medio ambiente como un ser vivo formado por todos los elementos que intervienen en él configurándolo o transformándolo de cualquier forma.
Y, además, muestra con extraordinaria viveza la nueva flora, tanto desde la magnificencia de sus cuerpos hasta la intrincada complejidad de sus raíces."
Alien plants take root on earth, sap the planet of its vital nutrients, decimate modern civilization and the human race.
The patriarch of the last band of humans is a religious nut job who whips his grown children.
The roots of the plant turn out to be full of spun sugar which is edible in moderation.
Seriously.
The femme fatale of the group eats too much and turns into jabba the hut.
SPOILERS She ends up being too gelatinous to leave their underground root system sanctuary.
This book was like someone took a SyFy made for TV movie but wrote the screenplay in 1960 and had Heironymus Bosch do the storyboards.

This is an alien invasion story of a different stripe, yet the main focus here is on the people that experience it and their various struggles to survive in the aftermath. If you need a big payoff and big alien battles and hoo-ah cheers, I'd look elsewhere. This is possibly the most likely and believable (relatively speaking) of alien invasion scenarios that I have read. It's a journey down into the heart of darkness, and one that is immensely engrossing and enjoyable.
Rating 3.4* out of 5. A short tale about the last few humans on earth. Society has been disintegrated through the arrival of the Plants. They grow quickly and up to 600 feet, blocking out the sun and killing all earthly flora. The question is not how long the last few farmers can survive the invasion, but how quickly they will perish. It's as much horror as science fiction. Well told and entertaining enough.
The Genocides could just as well be a slipstream novel instead of SF; the science fiction elements are a means to an end and not crucial to the story. This is the way the world ends - no bang, no whimper, just the disintegration of a rotten apple. It's probably an allegory, but I'll leave that interpretation to the next reader.
Really engrossing. It wasnt at all what I thought it would be from the title. The writing was was simple yet engaging and the characters were as interesting as the plot, and with a plot this interesting thats quite a feat. I really enjoyed this book.
I'm a sucker for stories about the extinction of the human species. But this one in an unabashed favorite. Disch writes vividily, with a knack for sharp plotting; he's one of the great genre writers who never got his due.
An end-of-the world novel, told from the perspective of human refugees who have been reduced to the level of burrowing pests on a massive, planet-wide alien farm. Similar in some ways to Brian Aldiss's Long Afternoon of Earth, but much bleaker in its outcome.
What's better than humans trying to survive an invasion of plants? Again, 3.5.
Whoa, what a little gem. Didn't wimp out on a happy ending.
I remember I tried to read this in college... Nope. Just didn't do it for me. Bland writing and truly unlikable characters all around. Didn't finish.
Hard to enjoy story about a small community living in a post-invasion earth. Kinda yucky, which I am coming to expect from this author.
EXCELLENT
Very good book. I liked the story, had enough things I didn't predict. Overall concept of plants/harvest/living in plants neat.
Well that was bleak.
The people are completely trapped, helpless in a nightmare situation, and they respond to it by displaying the whole gamut of the worst traits in the human race.(view spoiler)[Even the characters with a glimmer of good in them act mostly out of self-interest and in many cases succumb to the same twisted psychopathic acts as the villains.
I wonder why it is such a commonly accepted idea in sci-fi, that when the fit hits the post-apocalyptic shan, it is always supposed that the people who will survive and handle it best are shit-kicking, religious nutjob, rural assholes.
