https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312083.Seven_Day_Magic
Of all the Edward Eager books, this is probably the one I know least well, the one I don't think I first sat down and read until I was an adult - which means, unfortunately, that it missed out on that golden period where I devoured books as a child, reread them ad nauseam, and now carry them forever with me.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
"The best kind of book," says Barnaby, "is a magic book." Oh, yes, I thought, nodding, of course.
I remember reading this book when I was a little ten year old girl.
I found Half Magic on the bottom shelf, dusty, almost unread,  and felt like I'd discovered a whole new world.
Imagine how sad  I was to find that there were only two more Edward Eager books  in our library, which composed for me the entire extent of my book world!
The book was every bit as good to me as a forty-seven year old as it was so many years ago.
I know I read this as a child, but it must have been only once, because so much of it seemed fresh and new to me. Tommy was enthusiastic, especially at first, because he has lately been really into spotting "references" in books and TV shows (this largely brought about by his current fixation with The Simpsons). So it was exciting to him, that the first magical adventure referenced the Oz books, the second  Half Magic  and the third the Little House books, all of which he's somewhat familiar wit
So it was exciting to him, that the first magical adventure referenced the Oz books, the second 
Then he got frustrated, because the chapters stopped being about books so much, and the children never visited the world of 
We actually tried to read Knight's Castle a few months back, but had to give up, because T was confused by and uninterested in all the Ivanhoe references -- something I didn't mind as a child despite not having read 
The "Barnaby the wanderer" chapter is much more philosophical than anything else of Eager's that I've read.
I loved Edward Eager books as a child, and they're still fun.
It's sweet, good fun.That said, when I was a child, I was like Fredericka in this book (actually, I suppose I WAS Fredericka, down to long, funny F name and favorite Oz book) and liked "magic adventure[s], with wizards and witches and magic things in it" that are "for certain" magic, "not just a coincidence".
I'm well aware (as Eager depicts) that children vary from Susans to Frederickas, so some may relish the incidental and subtle magic more than the perilous adventures.
Well worth the trip to the library for any magic-loving child.
I finished the last of the Edward Eager books with my kids.
We plowed through the seven-book series as a family read-aloud.
Each book was better than the next.
I am enthralled by the strong, independent characters Eager brings to life.
These children are mature, responsible, funny - kids who use their imagination and creativity in useful and engaging ways.
I am jealous of the era he paints where unplugged kids grow up in the antithesis of what has become the Nanny State, where free range kids are not coddled or catered too, and as a result, they rise beyond all expectations.
One of my favorites! I love the bookishness of the seven-day magic. The self-references are great too- Eager brings up all his other books herein. Or a lot of them. There's even some character crossover. I love how the kids in this book have such definite ideas about how the magic will and will not work. Of course, they're right. And the magical book itself is a delight. Read Edward Eager, pick any one. You can't go wrong.
I like all of Edward Eager's books and this is one of my favorites. The five children in the book have magical adventures related to books they love and each one is funny, exciting and charming. I particularly liked the Laura Ingalls Wilder-esque chapter w/Granny, and I also liked that the father of 3 of the kids is a singer/actor and this is offered as a viable career for a dad. : ) A good read aloud that Walt and I book liked more than our last one, "Magic or Not."
I did not find this final Edward Eager book to be quite as charming as the previous six, but it did make for a nice concluding wrap-up to the "series." Lots of literary references, even more so than usual, and some quaint adventures on the part of the five children who serve as the book's protagonists. Certainly a worthwhile read aloud for parents and children to share together.
In this last book of the series, a whole new set of characters take center stage for another magical adventure!
These children love visiting the library every week and checking out piles of books, and when Susan finds a mysterious old book without a title, she opens it to discover that the book is all about her and her friends making wishes and going on adventures!
The children take turns making their wishes on the book with mixed results.
It tells the story of a library book that comes to life when children discover its magic.
I would use this book as an interactive read aloud.
Students could discuss elements of fantasy and point them out as they discover them in the story.
Then students could write their own fantasy story.
This is a chapter book that is a perfect length for a unit on fantasy.
The chapters aren't very long so it could easily be broken into appropriate lengths for read-alouds.
I would also recommend this book as an independent read to advanced readers who are interested in the fantasy genre.
Edward Eager was my favorite series writer when I was growing up -this was one of his books that resonated with me the most.
Five children are avowed book worms- they go to the library each Saturday to get new (and old favorite) books to check out.
One nondescript book, only available as a 7 day loan, is checked out and becomes the doorway to magical adventures for the group.
The joy of this book was that it made me think that this was possible, when I read it and for years to come.
I hated this book because it wasn't interesting. I hated it even more because it didn't make sense.
After reading this story, the best thing is that now I'll be wandering around, imagining which story I'd like to wish myself into.
(especially if you are in possession of a magical book) This lesson is learned by five friends -- siblings John and Susan, who live with their eccentric granny, and their across-the-street neighbors Barnaby, Abigail (Abbie), and Fredericka -- when Susan checks an intriguing seven-day book out of the local library.
Delightful adventures ensue, as each of the children takes a turn at wishing on the book's magical powers.
The episodes are, for the most part, anchored in other books (or book genres), and the story is told with great wit and humor.
I thoroughly enjoyed this children's book!
Seven Day Magic by Edward Eager is about a girl named, Susan who receives a strange library book. She realizes this book is magical and most of the pages are left blank. They are left blank in order for Susan and her friends to wish the book full of adventures. They travel to the world of Half Magic and realize creating magic causes more trouble than its worth. Cute book!
Every so often it's fun to fall into an old-fashioned children's story. Published in 1962. Quote from poem "Lucinda Matlock" by Edgar Lee Masters:"What is this I hear of sorrow and weariness, Anger, discontent and drooping hopes? Degenerate sons and daughters, Life is too strong for you — It takes life to love Life."
I heard a review about this book on NPR and thought I would check it out. It was really good and I'm glad I read it. I think it would make for a good read aloud in a classroom (maybe up to grade 4 or 5) or as a family read aloud. It was written in the sixties and I can envision some interesting discussions about life before computers and other types of technology. It's a very good read.
I am legit sad to have finished this series, as they always brought a smile to my face. They remind me of a simpler time, of books I used to check out and devour from the public library, of kind siblings and friendship. They aren't exotic or full of action, just old fashioned adventures that make me happy.
Five children check out a "seven day book" from the library that grants wishes, send the kids into some hilarious, as well as heartwarming, travels to imaginary places and to other times. The overall theme is that "books are magic." This book grew on me.
A wonderfully happy book. I’m sad the series only has 7 books. I liked the little twist at the end how it all wraps up.
I really liked it because anything could happen!
Meh. This book was cute, but dated.
I do love Edward Eager ...
An interesting story, but very outdated. I can't imagine kids today being able to relate.
I really liked all the tie-ins with his other magic stories. This was a fun adventure filled with "real" magic. I enjoyed it quite a lot.
my favorite part was when the book was returned to the library, and that the magic was back where it belonged. My least favorite part was when the book had pages torn out.
I liked the story with the grandmother, I liked that this one was very book centered. It did, however, feel like the tired end of a delightful series.
A fun read with lots of references to other children's literature.
Very cute and fun children's book. Very engaging.
Nephew approved!
