https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320700.Shadows_over_Innsmouth
Five stars all around for this one. I am glad that I read this series backwards. I was able to see how the stories of the mythos had evolved over the years.
For an ostensible expert on the horror genre, Stephen Jones can pick some real duds for his anthologies, and this is one of his dudliest.
Even the cornerstone story, the original "The Shadow Over Innsmouth," isn't one of Lovecraft's best.
End of story.
A better editor might have said, "Hey, great start, Brian, finish it up, and I'll buy it." But "Heritage" runs as is.
Neil Gaiman is the only author present who takes Lovecraft's original idea and runs with it though he doesn't seem quite sure where he's headed.
The bar is set quite high.It’s certainly no mean feat, but there’s a broad and rich collection of authors chosen to attempt the task, such as Ramsey Campbell, Neil Gaiman, Kim Newman, Brian Lumley, Basil Copper, Michael Marshall Smith and others.You might think that a book with seventeen stories all about the same place in New England might be a little limiting.
Τα λόγια είναι περιττά για την ιστορία του Λάβκραφτ, η οποία είναι ένα πραγματικό διαμάντι και πρέπει να διαβαστεί από κάθε λάτρη του καλού τρόμου.
Η ιστορία του Κόπερ μου φάνηκε εξαιρετικά ατμοσφαιρική και καλογραμμένη και αυτή του Γέοβιλ άκρως ψυχαγωγική με το μάγκικο και γκανγκστερικό στιλ γραφής, που έδωσε άλλον αέρα στην όλη κοσμοπλασία του Ίννσμουθ.Γενικά πρόκειται για μια ανθολογία ιστοριών τρόμου που θα ικανοποιήσει σε πολύ μεγάλο βαθμό τόσο τους λάτρεις του Λάβκραφτ όσο και τους λάτρεις του τρόμου.
Not only did it feature the original HP Lovecraft tale but apparently used it as a springboard for a series of all new stories regarding that haunted city.
Let's break this review up into two parts: First let's talk about the original story and then we'll chat about the new stories in this collection.The Shadow Over Innsmouth is a favorite story of mine.
How that ending hit you like a ton of bricks, and then no matter how many times you watched it since it never had the same impact?
Rereading this story was like that.
If you aren't familiar with the word "furtive", you will be by the time you finish this anthology.
It's a compilation of authors and as such there were parts I enjoyed more than others.
It was my first time reading Lovecraft and the same can be said for every other author here, save Gaiman.
So while I really appreciate his original ideas and masterful understanding of horror, I can do without the overly detailed visual descriptions and persistently formal tone.A few of the other stories were really fun and entertaining but several were boring and pointless.
Basically the original Lovecraft story minus the originality.
O antologie Lovecraftiana foarte buna cu povestiri la inaltimea originalului.Surprinzator Neil Gaiman a contribuit cu o povestire destul de dezamagitoare.Restul au fost numai de la bine in sus.Buna ideea, reusit rezultatul!
A housewife living in a shack in Innsmouth, in a field full of mud and pools thinks about her husband leaving to go into the sea.Ramsey Campbell's "The Church in High Street" is one I read years ago, I recall liking it but little else.David Sutton's "Innsmouth Gold" is a good horror tale, I feel like this author could hone his writing just a bit.
A man working in an all-night diner on a lonely seacoast has a strange customer, a girl who was impregnated by a very weird creature indeed.Brian Mooney's "The Tomb of Priscus" is a decent story that kept me interested, but I found it a bit predictable even though a few moments are so well-described that they still manage to surprise.
This is a fantastic collection of short stories for those who enjoy horror.
The remaining tales, however, took on an interesting twist and great reflections of imagination and creativity.
Each short story kept the basic monster and added time and characters.
They took the basic sea monsters out of the ocean and created a history and other dangerous, malevolent tales of garnering control over the human race.
I think the eeriest part of the tales are the fact that they fit in so well with each other that it almost appears as if each were drafted relevant to the previous.
Excellent collection of Lovecraftian horror all somehow related to Lovecraft's The Shadow Over Innsmouth.
The problem with all non-Lovecraft related "Lovecraft" stories and novels is that they are either pastiches or they just don't measure up to the Master.
In this I have to agree with Kenneth Hite.That said, most of the stories in this book fall outside the pastiche arena, and most are very good on their own as long as you don't expect a real Lovecraft story.
Fortunately The Shadow Over Innsmouth is included so you don't have to have read any Lovecraft stories to appreciate the other stories.
Great book - the Shadow Over Innsmouth is one of my favorite Lovecraft stories (and Dagon is one of my favorite movies), and this is a lovely little collection from others who were also as inspired as I was by the ruin of a sleepy little seaside town. Love the cover art, also (By Michael Whelan, of all people!)
Love these stories, they all really had that H.P Lovecraft feel.
Some, like Basil Copper's "Beyond the Reef" largely continue the story where Lovecraft's ends; others, like Michael Marshall Smith's "To See the Sea" reasonably assume that other parts of the world, e.g. the coasts of England, could equally have been affected by the Innsmouth heritage.
(Given the year of the original novella's appearance, it may itself have been a metaphor for fascism and its growing appeal to the middle classes of Europe).Very often the Innsmouth legacy is all too attractive to the seeker: although at first repelled, the protagonist is then drawn in to the web of the Deep Ones and wants nothing more than to be one with watery Yha-Nthlei and to evolve beyond rough humanity.
A mixed bag of tales inspired by Lovecraft’s ‘Shadow Over Innsmouth’.
Some exceptional, others more forgettable.
Notable stories included Basil Copper’s ‘Beyond the Reef’, Ramsey Campbell’s ‘The Church on High Street’ and Brian Mooney’s ‘The Tomb of Priscus’ which I felt added a new twist to the existing tale, and were rich and strange enough to nestle in amongst the existing Mythos tales.As often occurs in anthologies the weaker stories were either fairly uninspiring attempts to rewrite Lovecraft’s story or attempts to situate it in another time or location.
These translate few new ideas and are more repetitive.
I was fortunate enough to pick up this volume at a Dollar Tree store for $1 (plus tax). A fascinating collection of stories more-or-less inspired by H.P. Lovecraft's "The Shadow Over Innsmouth," which is the first story in the collection. The stories range from the truly inspired to the merely enjoyable, and I quite enjoyed the collection.
Some good stories, a lot of meh ones. I bought it for Brian Lumley and Neil Gaiman. Gaiman's story was pretty disappointing. "Beyond the Reef" by Basil Copper and "Dagon's Bell" by Brian Lumley are my favorite stories of the bunch.
A few decent tales, but many of the texts felt pointless. Jones should have scrapped a few and kept it under 400 pages. The illustrations before and after each story are excellent.
This one I particularly liked and found the imagery of the town of Innsmouth especially memorable.
Les personnages de lovecraft passent leur temps à s'évanouir...
I was surprised at how much I liked it!
A fairly unimpressive collection of short stories. The only one I could recommend is 'The Innsmouth Heritage' by Brian Stableford.
It scared the living daylights out of me. My God.
I’ve read so many Lovecraftian stories now, enjoyed Cthulu mythos based books, movies and games, and am very familiar with the ideas and iconic elements of Lovecraft’s creation, but oddly, until this collection, I’d never actually read one of the original Lovecraft stories.
The story is a slow starter, perhaps a little rambling in places, but with a great sense of atmosphere and, of course, a fantastically realised setting.The other stories in the collection are all the works of other authors, all within the Cthulu mythos and with a connection to Innsmouth and to the events of the original Lovecraft story.
I listened to an audio version story of The Dunwich HorrorThe Dunwich Horror several weeks ago, though (Which I enjoyed), so I was quite looking forward to reading this anthology, which I felt would be a good introduction to the mythos, and the author's work.The first story in this anthology is the original Lovecraft story, The Shadow over Innsmouth.
Still, I can appreciate Lovecraft's genius, and the world he has created, and I am most definitely not put off - I'll be reading more, as I said.If you're looking for an introduction into Lovecraftian horror, I think that this anthology will serve your purposes well.
It's not really something I'd hand to someone who wasn't inclined towards the work of H.P. Lovecraft, but if they enjoy Lovecraft, this anthology provides a far more satisfying set of stories than many others organized around the mythos and particularly 'The Shadow Over Innsmouth.'
There are a few good collections of Cthulhu Mythos stories, but this isn't one of them.
Last of the stories worth mentioning is Lovecraft's own "Shadow over Innsmouth"; it may not be on the same level as "The Call of Cthulhu" or "The Color out of Space", & Lovecraft himself admitted he had no flair for dialogue, but the idea & the basic plot is still strikingly original & creepy.
I don't know what it is about the Cthulhu Mythos that leads to so much bad writing.
Most of the better stories are the tongue-in-cheek stuff, the light-hearted parodies like Newman's story here.
This story really is the "go" space on the Monopoly board of weird horror fiction.As for the rest of the book, I read the 1994 edition, and I thought it was a great idea.
I really dug how in the '94 edition, all the authors were English, so it was neat to see the English take on an American horror classic.
(It's a tough feat for every story in a collection to hit a bullseye.) Incidentally, some of the illustrations in that edition were fantastic.
An anthology centered around Innsmouth, authored by British writers?
(the last story containing a werewolf of all things!) Combined with the unique writing styles and personal voice of each of the authors, the reader is sure to find something to tickle their fancy.As with any anthology, there are stories that I didn't find as interesting as the others.
Jones has done a really good job constructing this anthology, and I have already bought the next collection of his themed around Innsmouth.
This collection is a must for any Lovecraft fan, more so if you have any interest in the Innsmouth theme like myself.
I actually liked this a tad more than At the Mountains of Madness, because the pacing is better.
However, it's reminiscent of Lovecraft's earlier work of "degenerate sub-human species speak of untold horrors lying underneath it all", which borderlines racism.
He makes sure in this one to ally the blood-mixing with a race that isn't even human - that's fish-like, actually - instead of writing the sub-human species as Mongoloid or Negroid (wasn't even trying not to be racist then), but still...it didn't sit that well with me.
It's not supposed to, it's cosmic horror, but like not in that way, you know?The chase scene was actually really good.
Für mich war das aber immer "Shadow over Innsmouth", der Erzählung über Verfall und Identität, die wie die meisten Geschichten Lovecrafts von seinem Rassismus und Angst vor Fremdem durchsetzt ist, was aber für den modernen Leser durch die sehr fremdartige Darstellung der verhassten Rasse leichter verdaulich ist.
Keine seiner Geschichten baute so geschickt und konsequent einen nachvollziehbaren Horror auf.Viele andere Autoren der vergangenen Jahrzehnte und heute dachten und denken ähnlich, weswegen sie nach Erscheinen der Geschichte viele weitere Erzählungen mit Bezug auf die fiktive amerikanische Küstenstadt schrieben.
"Shadows over Innsmouth" versammelt eine große Auswahl solcher Geschichten in einem Sammelband.
