https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153372.Break_of_Day
This book is so full of incredible descriptions of our everyday world, its colors, its inhabitants, its smell and look and feel.
It was wonderful that the descriptions of the sights and sounds or her little world could reach out to me today and make me feel so much, remember so much.
I especially loved her descriptions of animals, her and her mother's tenderness and consciousness of them.
For example in recalling her mother, "And I still see your light foot making a detour to spare a little grass-snake, stretched out happily on a warm path." To me this is appreciation of life, love of life.
colette is the most sensual writer I know ... after enjoying the youthful delights of the claudine series, cheri, the ripening seed, gigi, etc. in my 20's, it was wonderful to grow older with colette's mature appreciation of midlife ... it's independence, choices, self-realizations, wisdom, and quieter pleasures. this is the book i return to for a reminder of life's lessons ... her writing has more essence and earthiness than any other writer i have ever read, and has taught me the value and joy of looking at everything in life with full attention.
This is the quintessential book about nothing (really, nothing happens at all, and the climactic scene is an intense conversation in which Colette gets to be smug about being too old and powerful to give any fucks anymore).
Excuse me while I weep at my cubicle.Something I found interesting - this book is supposedly semi-autobiographical and to read it you’d develop the impression that Colette was elderly when it all happened.
She was actually probably nearing 50, so that sort of dampens the fascination of a strapping 35-year-old falling in love with a much-older French lady.
I love reading books that are translated from another language to English.
I also love reading books that speak of someone living a quiet, peaceful, authentic life in a little village.
Break of Day is by French author Colette, translated to English and tells of either her life or based on her life as she lives in a little village in the Cote d'Azur in her later years.I loved the writing which was lyrical, beautiful and a little like Virginia Woolf's Mrs Dalloway.
I loved to live through her eyes as she gardens and speaks to her cats.
The book begins, ends and is punctuated with letters from her deceased "muse" of a mother, yet I believe that Colette edited these letters to suit her purpose and, despite repeated claims of her admiration, apparently found her mother impossible in real life.In a blurring of autobiography and fiction, Colette claims to have given up love, but her innate sensuality belies this, together with the vanity which makes her unable to resist seducing and encouraging for long enough to cause havoc, her handsome neighbour Vial, despite plans to marry him off to a young painter called Hélène who is besotted with him, but devastated by the belief that Colette is his mistress, which again Colette does not deny.
On dirait que Colette a fait un bouquin avec les digressions charmantes dont elle agrémente ses romans le reste du temps...
Une autre façon de présenter la naissance du jour, c'est de dire que c'est une version déstructurée de "la retraite sentimentale" : ah qu'il est bon, après une vie d'amours tumultueuses, de se retirer à la campagne, de découvrir les joies simples du jardinage, de la contemplation de la nature, du compagnonage avec les animaux, de la fréquentation popotte des voisins...
Reading Break of Day for the second time, 11 years later, I liked it better.
It's like a soup that's been simmering on the stove all day...
better for the time and care taken to reach its point.
Her mediation on her mother fits with the theme of a woman reflection on maturing into middle age, but its presence adds very little to the narrative excepting bulk.
Without it, the novella would hardly have justified its own volume, yet it treads ground that Colette was covering over and over during this time period: another tribute to her mother.Maybe in another decade I'll feel differently.
Lyrical; delicately lush. Rather dull storyline (although I appreciate her frank honesty regarding love, loss, and the feminine) but glittering with beauty. I picked up an English translation at a used book store in Seattle; I'd like to try a hand at her works in the original French. The English is so lovely that the original French must be exquisite.
Between two and three stars. I'm starting to really like Colette; reading her feels like having a long conversation with a whimsical, observant friend, the sort of conversation you might have on that friend's back porch on a warm summer evening. Even so, the extensively-recorded struggles with Helene and Vial grew tiresome, making even the enjoyable parts drag a bit.
This novel, rich in layers, is filled with calculated beauty. If you prefer a more “traditional” plotline/story arc, then this isn’t for you. The subtext within these pages is not profound for profundity’s sake; it’s thoughtfully crafted and elegantly composed.
I pretty much just love Colette, and this is my favorite thing she wrote. Maybe I related so well because I was having relationship problems when I read it, but I still find the writing lovely and insightful and empowering.
i needed this, meditative. a way to slow down, and to move in and out gracefully, with subtlety. keeping all the lushness and richness and the sensuality.
A great memoir. Although, her mother was the more interesting character.
Le style de ce roman m'a fait penser un peu à Marguerite Duras.
Lushly descriptive.
At that time St Tropez was an isolated village known to a tiny group of artists who were friends of Colette in Paris.
Colette decided that for the first time since she was sixteen she would live in solitude, “without love.” That is, she would have no lover, just a house, several cats, a tangerine tree, a small vineyard and a few other garden plots in addition to a small cadre of friends.And she decided to write a retrospective book, part fiction perhaps, describing her life there and her thoughts, her memories, especially of her mother, but also her father.
The last of these is almost an afterthought in the novel and emerges slowly and even a bit awkwardly (only for the characters, the novel’s execution is never awkward.) Here, we find a middle-aged woman who has escaped from the busy rhythms of the city to a small country estate where she can lose herself in the rhythms of nature and the menial labors that such an estate demands.
The climax of the novel is a bit of a surprise, as love butts its way into the idyllic Provençal landscape.
I keep evoking pastoral, but the novel’s sensuality, quet dignity, and reflections on age make me think of Colette as a modern Sappho.
A strange blend of breathtakingly beautifully, poignant and evocative prose; delightful observations on the lives of those around the central figure and on life in general from the perspective of the self-effacing prudence of maturity; and intermittent really very dreadful ridiculous generalisations and conceited pretentiousness pontifications about various things including gender, love, and pain.I feel I have to take the latter irritations as simply being part of the rounded portrait of the central figure, and to this extent I can view the narrative as a cohesive, interesting and thought-provoking whole.Ultimately, I’m very glad I read this short book because of the narrative’s often ravishing descriptive power.
Something I feel I may look for more of in other books by this writer.
There's a sweet story in this novel about a middle-aged woman and her indecision between taking a lover or remaining single -- or, more accurately, between temporary relief from a lacking faith in love or complacency with solitude and nature. Colette's pleasant, soothing descriptions of the natural world provide the strongest plus to this novel, but they also bear a certain sadness to them as we realize why she's so meticulous and attentive to such detail. A nice, quick read overall.
I'll be honest, I retained none of this. This was like a beautiful, barely lucid dream. Colette's prose flows in and out lazily and I just kind of let it wash over me. Very generally, this is about her time in Provence after her divorce from her second husband. She lives a real divorcée paradise, has a cat and a dog and a few kooky, wholesome neighbors, loves nature. That's about it! I enjoyed this but have nothing more to say.
I really loved the poetic Zen like parts of this book about her mother, animals and garden etc. The only reason I didn't give it 5* was that I personally did not get the lengthy Vial sub plot. He seemed like a twit to me and Helene was fairly uninteresting as well. I know that Colette met 'the love of her life', Maurice G, whilst living in this house. I hoped that Vial wasn't a fictionalized version of her great love!! He seemed so unworthy of her and of the book.
3.5. Deducting a 1/2 star from an otherwise 4-star rating due to the occasionally tiresome descriptions of the thinly-disguised narrator's bourgeois (or is it bohemian, what with all these artist types...maybe it is Bobo) summer lifestyle in Provence. Also she acts way too old for someone in her late 40s. Otherwise it was enjoyable, with plenty of lush description of the natural world. And cats, lots of cats.
"At no time has the catastrophe of love, in all its phases and consequences, formed a part of the true intimate life of a woman."This quick read, about an aging woman happy with her current life, is full of vivid descriptions and beautiful little moments. I kept putting it down to make it last longer.
For some reason, I resist Colette as I resist all women with 'powerful' personalities. I must say, this is a compelling read and the poetic prose goes down well. I will be reading more Colette in future.
This one was quieter than I expected, more reflective. The intellect in the musings is sharp, but the pacing is unhurried. Somehow, though I'm not sure why, it wasn't really what I was expecting from Colette. Either way, the quality of the writing cannot be debated.
I hated it. This is a self-indulgent work of an elderly lady in the twilight years of her sexual career. I think Colette wrote many excellent books over a long and distinguished career but this little book is well worth passing over.
Hard to understand for my level of French, but after plodding through it I liked the pervading tone and the symbolism. Glad I read it for a class, though a second read taking the time to understand the words is in order.
dreamy, wandering, loving of plants and animals. sunlit with provencal beach heat and idiosyncratic summertime company. perfect for falling asleep inside of.
Some amazing writing, but I felt a bit like I was in Lit class and missing some deep underlying meanings.
I look forward to re-reading this book 20 and 40 years from now.
