https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/382843.Flying_Too_High
I guess now I will find out if it's the show's star Essie Davis who portrays Phryne Fisher, as a kind of roaring twenties Emma Peel, and or Kerry Greenwood's writing, In 2016 Essie Davis was interviewed and stated she would be open to continuing the series on film.You may be asking why am I spending so much time on the T.V. show, when this is supposed to be a book review.
And the short answer is, I guess I like the T.V. show a bit more than this the first book that I have read in this series.
At the risk of being called blasphemous by my fellow reading buffs, I announce that this is the rare occasion when a movie is better than a book it’s based on.
It’s one of my all-time favorite series, following the detecting adventures of Phryne Fisher, the glamorous and cunning minx of a PI from Melbourne in the 1920s.
I cheered when they announced their second season.Because of the TV series, I picked up this book, the first I’ve ever read by this author.
Instead of reading more books in this series, I’m going to watch the second season, when it’s released by the studio.
I like Phryne Fisher, she's a great character, but the story in this book wasn't as captivating as it was in the first book.
Also, all this seducing of men, I find it a little bit boring.
Fine she likes sex, but come on, is this what's going to happen in every book?
1-2 cases in every book and some sex scenes, then it's going to be a bit repetitive.But the biggest problem I had with the book was there was too darn little Inspector Jack Robinson.
(Read again for #whodunitbymail, just as fun as ever.)
I am still going to read the next book in the series though."Flying Too High" is the second book in the Phryne Fisher series.
One involving a kidnapped child and another a murder of a man who was detestable in every single way.The two cases do not relate to one another at all so you are going to have to follow two plot lines.I can honestly say I don't care that much for book Phryne at all.
And we also get Bert and Cec. The kidnapping case was okay, but I still feel dirty about the deal that Miss Fisher makes with one of the kidnappers.
Cocaine Blues gave the reader introduction into sassy, intelligent life of Phryne, who’s just settled into Melbourne, trying to set up her profession as a private detective, with the help of new friends Cecil, Bert and Dot. We know from the first book that she likes fast cars and has a fondness for flying, and we did get a glimpse of that.
I even detected a slight hesitation in Phryne as to whether her rescue plan to would work - due one of the thugs being a paedophile, and age of the girl.I chose to listen to this series as oppose to reading it.
I'm a bit OCD with reading a series so I am reading Phyrne in order, it took me quite a while to pick up the second book because it wasn't easy to get from the library, finally it was my turn and this book did not disappoint.Book two starts with Phyrne taking tea with a new client who thinks that her grown son is going to kill her husband.
Her husband is a cruel man and her son is hot headed so it does sound like a recipe for disaster.
Gospođica Fisher leti, vozi, drhti, krvari i zavodi, sve da bi riješila problem(e) nestalog djeteta i mrtvog grubijana. Još jedno zabavno štivo u nizu.Ok, zavođenje je za osobne potrebe, ali sve drugo je u službi općeg dobra ;)
Occasionally with guys that are actually engaged to somebody else but it's OK because the woman knows that her fiancee cheats on her and is fine with it.Mind you, the only other men this woman had closer contact with were her father who abused her and her brother who is massive jerk and doesn't appreciate her work so the concept of men not being assholes might be new to her and Phryne could have introduced her to it but instead she just sleeps with her fiancee and wishes them a great life together afterwards.I bet theirs will be a long and happy marriage!Full disclousure: jerky brother does get better in the course of the book for absolutely contrived reasons and fiancee promises to be faithful after the marriage...I have my doubts but hey...it might happen...on the other hand fiancee also says things about her like she being the perfect model (for artists) because she is like an empty canvas and he can form her in anything he wants which is not creepy AT ALL!Where was I?
The readers of Flying Too High will follow the twist and turns of Phryne investigation into both cases.I enjoyed reading Flying Too High a historical crime mystery set in Melbourne during the 1920's.
I like the way Kerry Greenwood entwine the two investigations throughout the book.
Reading Flying Too High at times made me laugh with what the characters get up to especially Dot. Readers of Flying Too High will learn about law enforcement procedures in Melbourne during the 1920's.
Also, readers of Flying Too High will learn about flying a Tiger Moth.I recommend this book.
It could become annoying that Phryne Does It All if this unnecessary character-building goes on in future books.Some very lovable minor characters appear here, at least one of whom I am certain we will see again; of the two love interests in this book, I predict one will be back; and I am hopeful that these probable additions to the cast will require Greenwood to BEEF THESE BOOKS UP to address some of her so-far trademark laconic background building.So...recommended...for the reader who enjoys characters and settings that vary from the ordinary.
I love the little references to other detectives — like the Megatherium Trust, for example (a reference to Sayers).
Phryne, I love your wit.
Flying Too High is another fun instalment, which I enjoyed rereading.
I love that Phryne can fly a plane and that it’s a part of several later stories, and I love the women that come into her story being awesome in their own ways.
Just gotta love it.Not all of Phryne’s found family has joined her yet, by this book, and so it’s missing a few of the domestic comforts I love.
And I adore the loving way Phryne’s clothes and food are all described.
Phryne is a lovely character: independent, smart, fearless, honest and true to her own principles — and non-judgemental of others.I don’t really have much to say about the plots: these books remind me of Sayers’ mysteries, where what I care about is more the characters and how they deal with the situation.
Phryne is a little too good to be true, but I want to see what she does anyway.
I hear Essie Davis does a great job with the character in the series, so I’m quite excited to get round to it on Netflix.
This made me really uncomfortable, especially since the author dwells on the culprit's last wishes at the end in a very nauseating move.
She also seems to think that rape and incest is something women can get over if they're coaxed 'out of their shells by the right man'.I knew I was to expect deep themes (the first book did tackle the topic of abortion) but I'm not sure I adhere to the author's handling of them.
That being said, Phryne is a really well-fleshed character and very endearing most of the time which made the book feel very odd but not wholly unpleasant.
This one was fun too, although I think I liked it less than the previous one.
I continue to like the characters, but this one felt almost a little too simple almost.
I still like Phrynne, and thinks she makes sense as amateur detective, but somehow there was something missing.And child kidnappings are not my favourite mystery plotline.On the other hand, I love how Phrynne's reaction to a sexist man who is accused of murder is to hire him a female lawyer, who he immediately thinks is great because of how competent she is.That said, it turns out that:2018 Reading Challenge - A book with song lyrics in the title.
This is such a fun series, full of clear thinking, great generosity, and madcap antics by Phryne. In this edition she solves a murder, calms a bully and props up a talented artist, and rescues a kidnapped child. Oh, and wing-walks on a deHavilland Moth, just for fun.
Absolutely adore Phryne and really enjoyed reading this, though I find that one of the cases she investigates in this went a bit over the top in the ending. Can't wait to read the next one though.
This was a super fun, casual little read.
I've loved the TV show for a year or so now (thank you to the friends who convinced me to watch it), so it was about time I read some of the books.
That's part of the freaking joy.It's just light and airy (although deals with pretty horrific themes like incest and child molestation, which are dealt with in this same airy manner?
Like the books will just remain light-hearted no matter what situations they're dealing with)(which I'm sure a lot of people wouldn't like).
But basically, it was just cute and the perfect light-hearted little read and I really enjoyed it.
Wow, the sequel was even better than book 1!
The second in Phryne's adventures. A character who fits into the 1920s but at the same time, steps away from what people expect of her in ways that tend to shock even those that know her.
From death defying tricks on an airplane rides, to chasing kidnappers and solving a murder, this novel has it all.Phryne has been contacted by a woman who is concerned about the fights which keep taking place between her aggressive husband and their son over his business.
Phryne’s on the case and, with help from the trusty Bert and Cec, it’s not long until she’s proving a grumpy old detective wrong and revealing the murderer.The second case is not quite so simple – this time Phryne really gets her hands dirty.
However, in Phryne’s capable hands it is not long before little Candida is rescued.What I love most about this series is, in a word, Phryne.
This is hardly a cozy mystery, as there's a surprising, if not shocking scene of sex in the book.
That dismissed, the story itself is divided into two uneven adventures, or mysteries, if you will.
There's a murder, and a kidnapping.
Whether the kidnapping was going to be solved by the police, had they been informed, is anyone's guess.
It was straightforwardly solved by the daring, larger than life, avant-garde, secular, charming, accomplished, learned, sporting heroine Phryne Fisher.
This book provides some maybe much needed escapism to housewives and the likes of yours truly.
The book is very to the point.

Al igual que el primer libro de la serie (Una detective inesperada), he encontrado que la protagonista es demasiado "moderna" para la época. Cuesta de creer que una joven independiente, liberal, que actúa como quiere, sea aceptada en la alta sociedad australiana de los años 20. Pese a esto, es una novela entretenida, con buenos diálogos, amena, entretenida... De aquellos libros ideales para leer en la playa o para desintoxicarse de otras lecturas.
Phryne Fisher Mysteries: 2Phryne's been busy since the last book, enthusiastically solving little cases left and right.
The story is split between the main mystery that Phryne is trying to solve and a concurrent thread of a kidnapped girl with no convergence until mid-way through the book.
This book has the same little annoyances as the previous, partially due to the editing - scene changes aren't marked, so they mash together leaving the reader to deal with the resultant confusion and/or whiplash.
At any rate, Phryne does it again, Mary Sue style - she can stunt pilot, wing walk, and was once a model.
Phryne "solves" a murder by thoroughly investigating the crime scene and locating key witnesses; i.e., she does the job of the police in solving a death with suspicious circumstances. She also solves a murder via some ridiculous tracking nonsense. Meanwhile, she's moving out of the Windsor Hotel and into her new house at 221B The Esplanade. Overall, not a very strong showing from Miss Fisher. Both were pretty straightforward solves and the theatrics of the kidnapping rescue left me decidedly cold. The stars are solely for the universe and characters whom we've already met settling into their roles.
I know I always say I enjoy these books as a diversion, but I have to say the author deals with some pretty dark things. You almost don’t notice them as much because they are aren’t delved into too deeply. I still love the mystery and the time period.
Is there anything Phryne can't do? In this book she investigates two cases simultaneously and flies an aeroplane!
Loved this series when it was on T.V and the book was just as enjoyable. Very entertaining
Also the author must have loved Mary Poppins as a child, "practically perfect in every way" and always able to pull just exactly what's needed out of her bottomless carpetbag (or in this case, pockets and pochette!) Instead of the faithful Willy Garvin, Phryne has an entire support group--Dot, Bert, Cec, and the Butlers.I kept wondering if in 1928 Australia (or England for that matter) it was quite so fast travelling around.
(hide spoiler)]I seem to see a repeat motif in these novels of Phyrne righting a lot of sexual wrongs committed on women of one sort or another (the women as well as the wrongs).
