https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6202690-twilight-director-s-notebook
Before I start, let me clarify one thing here: I am not, and never will be, a Twilight fan.I have read all four books and watched three of the movies, and I have to admit that though the books are not necessarily as great as those teenage girls claim to be, the first Twilight movie does show a quality moviemaking.There, I said it.
The first Twilight movie is superb.Which is the reason I got curious of this book, where the director Catherine Hardwicke compiles a huge stack of handwritten notes with a heap of pictures from the shoots and behind-the scenes.
I really didn't like any of the Twilight novels or film adaptations (though I'm considering giving them a second chance in the near future since I was only ten years old the first time I read them), but when I was in grade 5 and the first film came out, it was all the rage in a bad way.
The good news is, this collection of film-based sketches and drawings is actually quite beautiful, which surprised me.
The drawings and photographs were all interesting to see.
I'm not sure if that means there's some hope for Twilight, or if maybe I'm just not a fan.
I got this book as a gift from a friend and I loved it!!Let me start out by saying, that although I am a Twilight fan, and I have read the books, I am NOT the biggest fan in the world.
And out of all the Twilight movies, the 1st one is definitely my favorite.
All the diagonal shots, the cool tones, the small home-town feel, it was just magical.
She really gets the artsy feel across, the magic of Twilight, like no other director.
Catherine set the tone and it was perfect for the story.
Catherine Hardwicke is nothing, if not passionate about her movie "Twilight". This behind-the-scenes glimpse into the world she helped to visually create was fascinating and informative. Hardwicke graciously shares with us her journey through the creative process, and all the complicated details that go into making a film. Filled with lots of gorgeous photos (Edward!), clever notes, storyboard sketches, and enough movie magic information and trivia to please even the most rabid Stephenie Meyer fan. This is one of the best companions to the "Twilight" series I have ever read!
If you love the movies and the books, and if you are interested in how directors direct movies you should get this one. Plus, it is full with beautiful, artistic never before seen photos.
Este é o primeiro livro de não-ficção lido este ano.
"Crepúsculo:Caderno da Realizadora" foi-me oferecido por uma colega de escola à cerca de 3/4 anos.
Este livro é fantástico, tem ilustrações incríveis e ficamos a conhecer todo o processo criativo que a realizadora Catherine Hardwicke teve durante a realização do filme "Crepúsculo".
Ver como tudo foi feito é espectacular, conhecer os processos de filmagem, de construção das personagens, as suas roupas, o cabelo, os acessórios....
tudo isto leva ao resultado final que vemos no filme e saber como tudo é feito é impressionante.
my bf sent me this book and i was like omg this book is so awesome, i saw their sketches and follow them through the creative process and everything before a completely of this movie. i love art, sketch and drawing and you know what in this book their line are so great, perfect sketch. remind me thinking of when i was studies in art university on making film class ;)
skimmed it for booktalks... fun facts... will keep fans going
I excited bought this from Borders on March 17 (while celebrating my 20th wedding anniversary!) My first impression?
Could it be any smaller and still show photos?
Typical 5×7 paperback novel size, thinner than most.
Nice hardback cover, but you’ll break the spine trying to see Rob Pattinson’s face in both of the two-page spreads where Edward is faceless or headless.I bought it of course.
I’m just being blunt because I expected something the same size and quality as the movie guide from last fall.
That photo book was absolutely perfect so this one had a pretty big shadow to overcome.
I love Twilight, and I thought the movie was great.
Now, I've really enjoyed going through Catherine Hardwicke's journal.
She is so passionate about making the movie, correctly, and she put so much hard work into it.
They really gave me a new perspective on the behind-the-scenes of Twilight.
I think they were my favorite part.
I also really enjoyed reading about how they made the favorite scenes, how everything was placed, etc.
All in all, it was a quick read into the movie world of Twilight.
I recommend it to others who share the same passion about Twilight.
My neighbor was cleaning out her garage and gave this book to me.Nice photos, but we've seen them already.Difficult to read as it is written in teeny tiny handwriting.Good for - the Twilight Fan.
I now know EVERYTHING, Catherine Hardwicke! Mwhahahaha!!!! Brilliant book :)
This was a pretty cool book. it was interesting to see how Catherine made the movie and how they went about everything.
GOOD
Just loved it
I got this book for my birthday and found it really fascinating, it's basically a book about how they made twilight, there was sketches everywhere of what they wanted characters to look like initially and it tells you all sorts of things like why they couldn't film in certain places.
It's written by director Catherine Hardwicke and she shows things from what's in her bag(?) to where she got insipiration(her sisters paintings) It really does look like a scrap book, there is some writing to read on some pages hardly any on some quite a bit, it's written in Catherine's writing and she draws arrows to point at the thing she's talking about.
Must have for Twilight Fans
This book shows the making of the twilight movie.
They also show how all the actors and actresses who were gonna play the vampires and how they got ready to make them look like actual vampires ( pale skin gold eyes sleepless but good looking ).
Also this book shows how they filmed, what they say, the hardest scene of the whole movie, which is the fight scene.
Now keeping in mind that noone can actually hold a car from crashing in to them with one hand.
So they had to dent the car before hand the place a foam around it.
The only reason I read this book was so I could see what CH might have been thinking when she did some of the things she did in the movie.
It didn't help, although there were some things in the book showing things she was thinking of putting in the movie that I am glad she didn't.
The book itself was interesting in the fact that it showed some of the process of filming a movie.
I would not recommend anyone pay for this book, for it is not worth buying and keeping.
I would recommend that the book be taken out of the library.
Lots of pictures and graphics from Hardwicke's notebook.
Inside look into the behind the scenes tricks used to create some of the special effects.
I was not a fan of the movie, but a big fan of the book.
There were parts of the movie (not from book) added that I didn't care for.
This book gives you an inside look as to why the director added certain scenes, what she was trying to convey.
This helped me get a better understanding.
It's interesting in its self to see all that goes into shooting a film, just one scene is amazing.
I was rearranging my bookshelf, and somehow I always forget that I have this. I bought it after reading Twilight, like...seven years ago, when I used to like the series, but this little companion notebook by the director of the first movie. It's actually really cool, it has sketches and art boards, sketches of how the characters and places should look like, how they made some of the scenes, as well as cinematic aspects of the film, that are entertaining to see.
I am interested in film-making after watching my daughter act in some films. For a while it ruined watching movies because you envision the camera and set instead of immersing yourself in the story. I read this before seeing Twilight but that just made watching the film more interesting. The filmmakers true love of the story also came through in this book. It was enjoyable!
This book is very pretty and well presented and it was a nice way to spend an hour. But I didn't feel like a came away with much I didn't already know. Offers you a very slight look into directing a film. Storyboards and sketches scattered throughout but not much actual writing. One for the die hard Twilight fans.
This book is about The Twilight
Bana çok güzel arkadaşlar getirdi.
Catherine’in el yazısı ile okumak çok güzeldi -bazı yerlerde zorlansam bile.
Okumak çok zordu çünkü.
Tamam bakkal yazısı kadar kötü değil ama kötü yani.
Ben hep kitaptan uyarlama filmleri eleştiriyorum ama işleri cidden çok zor.
Bella’nın çizimleri kitapta daha güzel mesela.
Serinin popiliğinin hayrını bana iyi yedi ve daha üstlere taşıdı.
Eğer Edward’ın saçını kitaptaki çizim gibi uzun yapsalardı ağlardım cidden.
Edward tarzı saçlar hala çok müthiş.
Bütçe var, az ya da çok.
Yok Kristen 17 yaşında minor diye çok çalıştıramıyoruz.
En çok şeye güldüm, Edward’ın parlama sahnesinde zorlandıklarını anlatan Catherine’in Stephenie’ye teşekkür etmesine.
This book was written by the director herself and includes many fun facts and details about how the movie was thought of, planned, and made that is sure to be a fun read to any Twilight fan.
The book includes many amazing things like sketches of what the characters were thought to look like, the casting stories, images of scenes and how they were shot, and many other fun things.
The book has a lot of pictures, which makes it a nice easy read for anyone looking for a relaxing and interesting book.One of the best things about the book is it has the directors thoughts in it, which are often quite hilarious.
As someone whose a massive fan of this series it’s really cool to read about how it was made and how and why certain scenes were filmed the way they were.
I absolutely adore Cathrine Hardwicke and I will forever be mad that she didn’t direct all five movies, while I so love all the movies I can only imagine how much better they would have been with her at the helm.
Hardwicke is a creative genius, and I absolutely wish she got more recognition in Hollywood.
A great read for any twilight fan!
3.4I really enjoyed reading this, I so wish that I had read this book when I was obsessed with Twilight in the beginning of last year. (Didn't know it existed)Because I think I would have enjoyed reading it more, but I still did.I just really liked flipping thro it, see how they stuggled and then fixed it and so on. The best thing in the whole book was all the dumb little comments Catherine did, like on the pages "what's in her bag" where it was a arrow pointing at the book Twilight with a description of: Our bible.
A Catherine Hardwicke é a diretora mais fofa do século! Ninguém surta tanto pela própria cama como essa mulher surtou por causa de Robsten. É muito interessante ler os comentários dela, as curiosidades do set, todas as pesquisas que fez, imprevistos que enfrentou, objetos que a inspiraram a criar os cenários, etc. É um livro muito bacana pros fãs, bem como para qualquer pessoa que se interesse por essa carreira.
This book was genuinely interesting.
I really like looking into how movies were made, what all went into every scene, why things looked the way it did, why they chose to change or present certain aspects.
I wouldn't say I liked the actual Twilight movies, but the filming process and production was pretty insightful and interesting and did make me want to rewatch the movie to see certain aspects of action, I found more of an appreciation for the way the film was made.
I'd suggest this for anyone who was a fan of the books or is a little off put by the movies for their inaccuracies.
Whether you love or hate the books and movies, this book shows everyone all the hard work and dedication it takes to produce a film. While I didn’t like how small some of the writing was, I appreciated how in depth a lot of it was and how much detail was put into into it, down to a detailed diagram of everything Catherine Hardwick kept in her backpack during filming. Overall, fantastic book for those who interested in movie production.
