https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397.The_Gettysburg_Address
I would like to respond to the unkind and unfair comments that the liberal press have made concerning Mr. Trump's recent speech, which they claim was plagiarized from President Lincoln's immortal words.
There is absolutely no truth in these accusations.
First, however much one may admire Lincoln, any American is allowed to express patriotic feelings without infringing his copyright.
And second, Mr. Trump did not even say the same thing.
Mr. Lincoln, as every schoolchild knows, said "government of the people, by the people, and for the people", but Mr. Trump said "government of the people, by the people, and for Mr. Trump".Vote Trump!
لینکلن در این سخنرانی که در محل یکی از نبردهای خونین میان شمال و جنوب - در جنگ داخلی - ارائه شده، به دلاوری های جنگجویان اشاره و بر پیگیری آرمان های آنها - یعنی حکومتی مردمی که در آن همه ی آدمیان در آن ارزشی یکسان داشته باشند - تأکید می کند
I had to memorize this in school *frowns*, but even though I was reluctant and complained and fussed...I can't help admitting that part of me loved it. The words, the sweetly powerful way they were arranged, the flow of the sentences and the love behind those words...it was all so amazing, so beautiful. You can almost feel the love, the passion, behind every comma and every letter and every period. Abraham Lincoln was a great man. Thank God for men who shaped our country in His grace!
On November 19, 1863, at the dedication of the National Cemetery at Gettysburg, the first and featured speaker, Edward Everett, spoke for two hours. Abraham Lincoln then stood and spoke for about two minutes, and with 260 words gave what many consider the greatest speech in American history.
Penguin Great Ideas: 8/100, Series Four: 2/10 I so fucking love Lincoln's speeches and everything else about him.
Hmm. Well.
I'm not used to seeing Lincoln, Washington and Jefferson completely ripped, but hey, in this book everyone is muscly!
Even the women have visible six packs through their dresses.A little odd and too physically detailed for my liking.Ages: 6 - 10**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
I am not American, so I was not familiar with this before reading it today and I truly understand its enduring measure. It is beautiful and inspiring.
Worthy evasions and delusions. If America were as it imagines, there would have been no civil war.
Abraham Lincoln was an amazing man, and an amazing President. In today's political climate it is interesting to go back and read his words.
In this entire speech, this is the only thing that really stuck with me:But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate—we can not consecrate—we can not hallow—this ground.
It's a beautiful thought, and a wonderful expression of the humbleness that we ought to have for the sacrifices of martyrs.Sadly, the rest of the speech wasn't nearly as good.
Lincoln paints the Civil War as a conflict for freedom, when the war was only partially (if at all) fought for the slaves.
The Civil War was fought savagely.
I really liked this book. This book is basically just the Gettysburg address in picture book form. The thing I liked was its amazing illustrations. The thing I didn't like is that it doesn't describe things like how did the Gettysburg address impact America or other facts about the Gettysburg address but a pretty good book.
This is a very short but poignant book. Everyone has heard the Gettysburg Address. I did not realize there were different versions. The one we most likely know well is the Bliss version or the 5 th version. Look at that speech, line by line....it was powerful then and it is powerful today.
Interesting, I didn't realize there were 5 different versions of the Gettysburg Address. I was left with wanting to know if anyone has even tried to search for the Wills copy?Has anyone written a book on how the Gettysburg Address had an impact on America, lets say 100 years after it was heard?Also, how was life for the Civil War photographers, Matthew Brady and Alexander Gardner after the war?
In large lettering, this book reprints Lincoln's most famous speech, overlaying the text upon actual photographs of Civil War battlefields, paintings of the Founding Fathers, maps, period drawings of battles, and period newspaper clippings.
Some of the illustrations are quite moving - authentic photos of the dead on the battlefield, for example, and men in uniform going about the daily business of the Civil War.The speech is still relevant today, too, as Lincoln reminds us our country was founded upon God and liberty, and that Americans, above all people, should strive to protect the union and each other or risk having "this government of the people, by the people, for the people...perish[ing:] from the earth."The only down side to this book is that it's entirely black and white.
This short speech was hardly so ambitious from Lincoln's view and he didn't intend it to be more than some token words to dedicate the National Cemetery at Gettysburg.
He started off by reminding the audience present that it had only been 87 ears since the The Declaration of Independence, and now they were about to dedicate a cemetery to those who died in the "great civil war." Then he says this: "But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate—we can not consecrate—we can not hallow—this ground.
It's the freaking Gettysburg Address.
Off the top of my head, I would list the Gettysburg Address as a top 5 speech ever given.Other than the GA (that's what I call it), there was the best man speech I gave at my friend's wedding, the impromptu speech in 9th grade English on my favorite movie (Tommy Boy), and of course my lovely speech in 7th grade when I demonstrated how to properly make an Ice Cream Sundae.
That speech even included some ad libbing to account for the difficulty I had getting the ice cream out of the tub.
The illustrations in this picture book resemble murals in their rich colors and detailed human features.
Accompanying phrases from the Gettsyburg Address, delivered by President Abraham Lincoln on November 19, 1863, each of the images fill two pages in eye-popping fashion.
Readers will certain notice the detail of the illustrations, but they will also be intrigued that those same images offer an illustrated timeline of the nation's sometimes turbulent history.
The book contains the entire speech Lincoln gave as well as notes explaining each illustration.
Because the book was first published in 1947, right after WWII, the speech and the scenes depicted in the book's pages are given added poignancy.
The pictures really fit the tone of the speech and show children some of the history behind what was happening at that time. I think this book would be a great one to read when students study the Civil War and have to memorize the Gettysburg Address. It would give visual learners something to help them remember the different parts of the speech.
Beautiful. Spoke respectfully to all men of this country. I wonder, not really, I know that Lincoln intentionally changed the plan of protecting -these- United States to the plan of -The- United States. And this from a man others insisted upon his illiteracy and his unrefined manners.
Of the handful of political speeches that I value, this is one.
Short, sweet, and to the point! Like speeches should be :)
Definitely worth spending the time to memorize.
Read it long long ago in high school.
"The Gettysburg Adress", by Abraham Lincoln, is a very good book for many reasons.
This book is from a unique perspective and shows everything in a whole new light.This book is all about Lincoln.
It shows Lincoln's life and some of the things that he did.
Lincoln was a very different kind of person in the ways he used the English language to tell stories.
The book shows some of Lincoln's adventures through life and all about the Gettysburg Address.
Long story short this book is very interesting and I highly recommend anyone to read it if they have not already.
I would recommend this book for the middle grades, fourth through sixth grade. I would categorize it as informational nonfiction.This book has amazing illustrations. I love looking at Abraham Lincoln! I think the students would really enjoy reading a book if they knew that a previous president actually wrote it! It makes nonfiction books a lot more interesting. It's important to teach the students about our history, and inform them about Abraham Lincoln. I don’t think that many students will be super excited to read a nonfiction book, but they would definitely prefer it over their social studies text book.
When differentiating reading, you can read through words, audio, or pictures. What Ames this illustrated book of "The Gettysburg Address" so interesting is that it is easy to use this book using all differentiated methods. The words alone are powerful words as told in the forward, but the illustrations inside give the same message as the text of the speech. So much effort was put forth in creating this book, and it is fabulously done! This is such a great example of how art can tell stories just as well as words can.
Just finished "GETTYSBURG ADDRESS" by ABRAHAM LINCOLN. This was from the book "THE U.S. CONSTITUTION AND OTHER KEY AMERICAN WRITINGS" and the Audible book narrated by DEAVER BROWN. This book also included "ACT ESTABLISHING YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK (1872)". We have visited Gettysburg before where 51,000 Union and Confederate soldiers were killed, wounded, or missing after the Battle of Gettysburg, July 1-3, 1863. Definitely awe-inspiring.🇺🇸
The choice of wordsThe choice of words, oh yeah. The simplicity with which he delivers the address is so mind blowing that it is impossible to not feel the action and ideas alive!You can see that how heavily borrowed from this are even the century later speeches of the likes of Nixon, Kennedy etc.
Genre:InformationalGrade:4thThis book is filled with the exact words President Ab Lincoln said when he wrote the Gettysburg address and it is something extremely powerful and interesting to have read. I also love how the person who illustrated it put so much detail into the pictures. They are extremely beautiful and have rare emotions behind every page.
Literally the addressI was somewhat surprised that this book consisted of only the Gettysburg address. I thought it would have been much more about the history which lead to the address.. So short was it that it can hardly be called a book
