https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18815796-way-of-the-lawless
Recently I read my first western novel, Gunman's Reckoning by Max Brand.
(See here for my review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) Andrew Lanning has been raised by his Uncle Jasper to know how to shoot just like the gunmen of the days when the West was a little younger and wilder.
Thinking he’s killed the man, he runs.
I was a little thrown off by the presence of an automobile and telephones in this book, but otherwise they’re living the life of the Old West on the cusp of the modern era.
As for me, I think I’ll try another western novel sometime.
A good yarn well told. Many Western stories have the good man forced into unfortunate circumstances and then branded as an outlaw. Yet this takes that story and does a lot with it offering plenty of tensions and suspense and an interesting hero. It also had one of most surprising endingst. One hat struck me as brilliant or dastardly - maybe a bit of both.This book is available on Project Gutenberg. I listened to the Librivox version which had quite decent narration.
Westernové paparbacky vydavateľstva Návrat :-) zo zlatých deväťdesiatych.
A classic western! You will not be disappointed!
Good read but I hated the ending.Brand has never been a romance writtern but he could've added ten more pages to give us a glimpse of the happy reunion. especially. to keep his lady readers happy, of which I am one. He is a very talented writer and I've always appreciated that.
good characters. good plot
A good readI just picked this one & started reading & couldn't put it down. A very good story and a fun one to read.
My first western and I LOVED it. Had a great little twist at the end. I will be reading more Max Brand.
WESTERNJim read this on 6-20-16 and rated it 4.7 stars.
The choiceThe real title that Max Brand used is a term for the old west, but "The Choice" would make the reader drive to this conclusion! I did!
Good readThese two stories held my interest throughout. The second story had a unexpected ending. I would recommend it to any western story fan.
Good story line. Just fast enough pace to keep you reading. Good story line. Characters were well developed. Ended with a happy, surprise finale.
There is nothing like a good western to peak your interest. I enjoyed Max Brand's book and I'm sure that you will also. Read this story about a boy that became a man via the way of the lawless.
I would read it againit kept my interest I wanted to see what happens next the way it ended was a little surprising the end was to fast
