https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330451.Civilisation
We are richer than ever before, and yet after 12 episodes of architecture that would make you weep, paintings that cannot but leave you dazed and spinning, it is hard to look at ‘the best of the modern world’ and not think, “Is this really the best we can do?”I guess painting church ceilings for twenty-years wasn’t really efficient – and we all know how terribly important it is to be efficient.I think this could well have been better if it was purely a history of art and therefore sought to present that history by explaining more of what the artists where seeking to do and why.
I wonder if a single thought that has helped forward the human spirit has ever been conceived or written down in an enormous room I must admit immediately that I have never read nor even laid eyes on this book. I’m sure it’s lovely. This review is, rather, about the television series, which I’d wager is twice as lovely.Civilisation is the best documentary I’ve ever seen. Kenneth Clark takes his viewer from the Dark Ages, through romanesque, gothic, the Renaissance, the Reformation, baroque, roc
Of course, for lack of time Clark cannot delve too deeply into any one of these subjects; but because the presentation is so skillful and economical, and the selection of material so tasteful, the viewer is nevertheless satisfied at the end of every episode.The documentary generally shifts between shots of Clark facing the camera, talking to the viewer, and extended, panoramic shots of churches, monuments, paintings, drawings, sculptures, and mountains, while beautiful music plays in the background.
Still, I can’t help thinking of all the times that a friend, a fellow student, or even a teacher has made a blanket statement about “Western culture,” “Enlightenment ideas,” “scientific materialism,” or some such thing, while seeming to understand none of it.
This weekend I have indulged myself with a visit to Hatchard's Piccadilly, London's oldest bookstore.
Perhaps it is not where one goes bargain-hunting, but their selection is superb.
Most of the new releases available 'signed by the author' and they are also offering a marvellous selection of the first editions...It turned out that Hatchard's just released a limited hardback edition of 'Civilization' by Sir Kenneth Clark.
It is hailed as best non-fiction book in the store's 220-year history.
I think this is a wonderful way for physical stores to differentiate and stay relevant under stress of online competition.
At times I feel that Clark does what he claims not to do- he shows how art arises out of social conditions.
This is particularly evident in the chapter on the early ages of Western civilization, the 11th to 13th centuries.
Overall Clark is a well-read, opinionated, witty (and sometimes naughty) narrator.
I close the last page with an overarching concept of Western civilization and notes for future reading and deeper studies.

On the one hand he believed in many sensible things: that society needs institutions, order is better than chaos, creation is better than destruction, and in sympathy over ideology, knowledge over ignorance, gentleness over violence, and forgiveness over vendetta.
(The same for Scruton, and others.) Clark observes much and appreciates much and says many wise things, but his attempt to integrate all this data in humanity instead of God is a grave error.With your philosophical guard up, the 'Civilisation' book and thirteen-part BBC series (watch it on YouTube) are fantastic.
This being a series of essays rather than a linear history of art and civilization, Clark leads us through the development of Western Europe through some interesting generalizations: that craft (text illumination, decoration, reliquaries) led to art and architecture during the middle ages; that the age of reason eventually led to a "Worship of Nature"; that the Industrial Age had the potential to be as destructive to civilization as the Huns.
Since this was not a comprehensive art history text, Clark featured specific artists.
Secondly, I've always felt that captions for artwork should include date and location in addition to artist and title.
As a young man I saw some parts of it and was very impressed by the erudition of Clark and his strong vision.
So many years later, that vision obviously is very outdated; the narrow Western focus today would be completely out of the question; moreover, Clark did not venture into the twentieth century art, though we do have the impression that he has a not so flattering opinion about it.
But still, it remains quite impressive to get all the different art genres in one comprehensive vision.
On the whole I think that knowledge is preferable to ignorance, and I am sure that human sympathy is more valuable than ideology.
This book is a fitting companion to the excellent videos of the same name.
Kenneth Clark was one of those delightful english gentlemen with an impeccable education, and who use english properly and to whom it is a pleasure to listen, and to watch (other than for seing his english dentistry).
It traces the precarious survival of christian civilization in the last thousand or so years, through the accomplishments of that time that--unlike history--cannot easily lie: its Art; its Books; and its Architecture; all, thanks to the value seen in those things by the Christian Church, one of the few sources of wealth at that time.
At its heart, the book promotes the great man theory (and indeed, the book is almost exclusively about great white men) of history and of art: great historical events and great works of art occur due to a handful of singular, extraordinarily gifted individuals who, though born of, transcend their society and their time.
To read Civilisation is to indulge in one thoughtful man's perspective on the history of the Western world, as told by its great art.
From Aurelius to Aristotle and from Michelangelo to Byron, the presenter Kenneth Clark had an exquisite taste that any man would die for. If I can travel back in time, I would definitely want his company all day long and listen to his observations and findings of Classical Antiquity and the Renaissance. And yes, I love his tweeds!
Sure,we can read between the lines and understand these opinions come from elderly gentleman of certain background (for example,women are not mentioned at all) but once this was understood,reader have lot to enjoy in here.Every chapter covers some important innovation,be it in architecture,music,art or simply in change of thinking - Clark mentions Dante,Holbein,Mozart and Voltaire illustrating his stories with funny little anecdotes (H.G.Wells wouldn't dare to drive a car in France,because the temptation to run over a priest would be too strong for him) and there are literary thousands of informations that reader can treasure and savour later.Some are dead-set against edition without illustrations,well I happened to buy the only available here and it was paperback with not a single illustration and wouldn't you know,it did not made any difference (except that is probably lighter to carry around on my travels than hardback,illustrated version) for me as I love READING,not just looking at pictures.
The last few decades, decadence and oikophobia (the fear for itself, a word used by the philosopher Roger Scruton) rule over Europe.
Every reader should agree on the concluding comments of Sir Kenneth Clark, that order and gentleness are to be preferred over chaos and violence and one should believe in something greater than human life, call it Nature or God. It is naive to be optimist because Popper requires us to be so, but it would be the greatest failure of our and the next generations to jeopardize this rich European civilisation by being bored or fearful.
I first saw this series when it was released by the BBC to Public Television over thirty years ago, and would beg my local station, WHYY, to keep running it until their money ran out.
Quite simply, to my mind, it is the most superior series ever seen on television, public or not.
Also, were it not for this groundbreaking series, we would never have seen its many imitators - The Ascent of Man, America, Cosmos, Life on Earth, The Living Planet.
For anyone with a need to know about the visual arts, history, music and how they all should share space in our lives, let this program be your companion as well.
Kenneth Clark was an historian of art who wrote and narrated the first color BBC documentary, Civilisation, and produced a lavishly illustrated book along the same lines.
Thereafter I picked up the book.Both book and documentary are not so much histories of art as they are histories of (primarily western) civilization earmarked to great and illustrative works of art.Grinnell College is not the place to go if one enjoys the spendors of nature.
Grinnell is not the place to go it one enjoys the night life and distractions of cities.
As the updated series is currently on TV, this is a good time to read the book that accompanied Kenneth Clarke’s original documentary ‘Civilisation’ back in 1969.
The book is essentially Clarke’s narrative stripped of all the luscious visuals and music.It’s interesting to compare Clarke’s version with this year’s modern updating.
Clarke’s was essentially a chronological wander through the history of Western art & architecture.
That being said there is much to like in Clarke’s version - it’s certainly a very good starting point for anyone interested in art history.
http://izumen.blogspot.com/2013/11/bl..."Цивилизацията" на Кенет Кларк е едно пътуване през човешката история в търсене на това толкова неизмеримо понятия "цивилизация".
По самите думи на автора можем да съдим колко трудно е то да бъде систематизирано в едно или две изречения."Какво е цивилизация?
Не знам.
Не мога да й дам абстрактно определение-все още не.
Но мисля, че мога да позная цивилизацията, когато я видя."Този цитат хвърля най-ясна представа за съдържанието на книгата.
Точно това ненатрапчиво присъствие е силата, която поддържа интереса Ви през цялото време.http://izumen.blogspot.com/2013/11/bl...
A companion book to a TV show that ran on BBC2 in the '70s. It covers Western European 'civilisation' from the Early Middle Ages to the 19th century, mostly through art and architecture. Lightweight but recommended for its humanizing anecdotes about figures like Abbot Suger, Erasmus, and Descartes, and for the author's amusingly patrician, pompous, very English style.
Just don't ask Sir Kenneth about the Spanish....funny how he could present an overview of European art without so much as a word about them. Hmmmm.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Although this book went in a different direction from what I expected, I still found it thought-provoking and worthwhile to read.
He similarly follows the architectural development of the Europe of the Middle Ages and works hard to dispel the myth of monotone stagnation that has pervaded the art of the period.
Although Clark descends into condescension of the artistic achievements of the other parts of the world and is rather grandiose in its claims of describing “civilization”, the reader that understands this book for what it is, an artistic history of Europe (and a succinct and good one at that), will find it quite worthwhile to read.
Civilisation, based upon a TV series of the same name, is a detailed exploration of the history of Western art and philosophy by historian Kenneth Clark.
For the most part his commentary is very interesting, but one difficulty I had is that as somebody who has a very limited understanding of the world of art in general, I did not recognise the majority of the pieces of art that were mentioned.
Clark admits that much of his commentary is largely subjective and he necessarily has to omit various important pieces of art in order to keep to the ~300 page limit, but it's obvious to the reader (or at least to this one) that Clark is an authority on the topic and his opinion should be respected.
A companion volume to the Television series, this short work reviews western civilisation in terms of art and artefacts rather than political or economic forces.
Sadly it is unillustrated, so one really has to refer to the television series to complete the picture, and obtain the visual references.
While not fully comprehensive, he does not cover civilisations other the the western European, his approach is systematic and exhaustive.His presentation in the television series is remarkably low key; no hand waving or gushing, and would serve as a fine model for the current generation of arts programme presenters.
Much more meaningful to me today than when I read/watched it in my Honors Humanities class 40 years ago. This book is the companion to the 13-part (670 minutes) BBC documentary. Yep, I watched it, too.
A whirlwind tour of Western art and culture. Now I want to go back and watch fhe original television series. Even more intrigued by the creative hotspots and flourishing of ideas.
Great survey of Western Arts and culture in the conversational manner of a favorite dinner companions.
Great book in a rare genre "great person writes about their favorite things". It was mentioned in one of Paul Graham's old essays. It's about evolution of Western European civilization, viewed through the lens of art, architecture and literature. Technically it's not even a book - it's a script for an old TV series, but the writing is great. I had paperback edition that didn't have any illustrations whatsoever (kind of an odd decision for a book about art, but not fatal in the age of google image search), so try getting the old hardcover edition.
They know about Rigoberta Menchu, Western racism, "inequality," and would find scant motivation in Clark's opening chapters about how "Western Civ" almost "bit it" but was saved by Charlemagne (the "guy" whose bust appears on the picture) oh!...some thousand years or more ago.
Kenneth Clark is also a bit donnish in his presentation, reminding us of a bygone time when university faculties consisted of men in tweeds talking and debating in the combination room, such has been portrayed by C.
I recommend this book not only for its intriguing presentation of Western civilization but also as a portal leading to an older idea of scholarship whose loss has been to the impoverishment of all those who seek wisdom along with knowledge.
Though the visual arts occupy the center of the book's discussions, other subjects - from literature to music to the natural sciences - also make their appearances.
The sheer scope of Civilisation would have daunted an unskilled writer: in different hands, the book might have turned into a hefty pedantic tome, or a cursory survey that informs, but leaves little impact.
Moreover, I felt particularly grateful that Clark would, thoughtfully, remove himself from the screen once in a while for extended periods of time to let the visuals - arranged in gorgeous sequences - speak for themselves.I can see myself re-reading and re-watching Civilisation, and relishing it, in the years to come.
This would culminate a 3rd complete reading since being introduced to "Civilisation" as a text in a Humanities class, my first year of college, Spring 1979.My professors today conclude that Clark is opinionated, pompous, & sexist, let alone antiquated.
"Civilisation", even solely as an art history book, serves a foundation for my understanding of world history in a broad sense.
Because its time span is so large, near everything I've read,or likely will read, is put into its context.I'm giving this a word-to-word reading now in light of the November, 2016 American elections of which, of course, I was a participant.
