https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228665.The_Eye_of_the_World
Jordan didn't have the knowledge of language, history, or culture to truly copy Tolkien's style, nor was he able to add a unique spin.The Eye of The World is a more accessible version of Tolkien, but Tolkien is already a simplified version of the Norse Sagas, meaning that Jordan felt a need to dumb-down the accessible, which doesn't leave his book with much personality.Jordan also takes influence from the Sword & Sorcery tradition, particularly R.E. Howard (Jordan even wrote and published some of his own Conan stories).
Are you happy?My friend Brian has been telling me to read The Wheel of Time for years.
It always went like this: Brian: You should read The Wheel of Time.
B: The first seven books are really outstanding.M: Yeah, I'm not going to read seven books without an ending.B: The first one is good but the second one is better.M: Mmm. I don't know.B: The first one stands alone really well!
No, I do not.Do I listen to the second book at chipmunk speed?I really kind of want to.
Like when Thom, Mat, and Rand jumped aboard Bayle Domon's ship, and Thom spun a tale for the captain, explaining how they happened to come upon his ship with Trollocs (nasty man-beast things) on their heels:
And one thing we do know is that Rand, Perrin, and Mat are ta'veren, and as such they unwittingly pull others into their quest: a so-much-more-than-a-simple gleeman whose past regrets dictate his future actions, a young Ogier whose curiosity and wanderlust led him to leave his peaceful stedding home to see the things he's spent his life reading about, Rand's sweetheart who refuses to be left behind and longs to become an Aes Sedai herself, and the village Wisdom who feels compelled to both protect the young people from Aes Sedai machinations and also to break through the Warder's walls.
I'm going to give it my all to make this a good enough review, but I kinda doubt it because this book is too great for my measly little words :-)WELCOME TO THE WORLD KNOWN AS THE WHEEL OF TIMESince I'm not good at explaining certain things, I'm so glad the author put a glossary in the back of the book so I can sound all smart when I tell you what things are!
Don’t get me wrong I do, of course, prefer Tolkien’s writings; however, some of the characters in the Wheel of Time are more complex and are not entirely obvious in their convictions at the start of the series.
So, it is not entirely clear, in the beginning, if the boys are being rescued, used or a little of both.
It will not be done until the end of time.”The characters have come a long way in this novel, and I do look forward to seeing how far this series will take them.
There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of the Wheel of Time.
Let the Dragon ride again on the winds of time."I have read a lot of books throughout my mere twenty years of life.
One of those is definitely The Eye of the World by Robert Jordan.This is not a book turning fantasy literature on its head, or even providing the genre with major changes.
It can be a challenge to get through, but it is definitely worth it.This is in my eyes fantasy as it should be written."The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend.
2 stars for the benefit of the doubt, because I DNFed this shit at page 10. This is my new record.Look, I'm sorry. This is another one of those Lord-of-the-Rings moment where I appreciate the effort, but this is not for me. Within the short amount that I read, I had names and random bits of history thrown at me and maybe it's because it's this early in the morning, but I nearly fell asleep and I honestly can't recall anything that I've read. I have a feeling I'd have a better time reading a textbook.
That's when I realized Moiraine is really more like Gandalf if Gandalf's contingency plan was to throw Frodo into volcano along with the Ring if he had to!"Of course, if anyone earned the right to throw Frodo into the fire, it was Sam!"Nynaeve - (Perrin talking about Nynaeve): "You think a little thing like a sunken ferry could stop her?"Known as The Wisdom of Emond's Field, Nynaeve mostly acted as a healer and a mediator during her time there.
But I carried on.The main character, Rand, was so uninteresting that I honestly didn’t care what happened to him, nor do I have any interest in reading any more books in the series to find out if his story continues.
But just in case you didn’t catch my opinion, The Eye of the World has a horribly contrived plot, uninteresting or downright annoying characters, and too many pieces of stories to be worth the many hours of my life that were sucked away by reading it.Yuck.P.S. I think Robert Jordan is a lousy writer.
I am definitely the minority here, as the book didn’t even make my top 20.Don’t get me wrong, it’s still a classic that deserves its place as one of the all-time fantasy greats, it just happened to have some elements that I personally didn’t care for.
The magic system and overall measure of time were also highly original and interesting, even though we didn’t get to learn much about them.No, what the book lacked is that sense of excitement I usually feel while reading a great fantasy novel.
*SPOILER FREE*You know that thing that happens with your favorite series?
Kinda like this: "Navessa, what did you think of this book?""AAAAARRRRRRRHHHHNNNNNNNNNAAAAACCCCC""Um...are you okay?""AAAAARRRRRRRHHHHNNNNNNNNNAAAAACCCCC""Are you having some sort of fit right now?
Brain Constipation: when you have so much to say that you can't get anything out.Yeah, I think I like that.
I know that seems pretty daunting, but Jordan adds the perfect amount of action and intrigue to every single chapter, balancing out the world building so that it never feels like you're reading an info-dump.
I survive unscathed after going through 750 shuddering pages of Epic/High/Whatever Fantasy (EHWF™) and yet here you are, bickering like bitter old maids over a Gloriously Insignificant half star.
Okay, let's start with the Bad News then (view spoiler)[yeah yeah yeah, I know you love me as much as I do you (hide spoiler)].✎ There are three main reasons why I knocked off a Gloriously Not So Insignificant Half Star (GNSIHS™) from my original rating.
Where is Glenn Cook when you need him?③ Something Not So Insignicant that the GFFF™ will probably think is a Supremely Super Silly Reason (SSSR™) to knock Half an Insignificant Star off my rating, but that bothered me to no end: Time for an Actual Spoilerish Spoilery Bit (ASSB™).
Legend fades to myth and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth returns again.What was, what will be, and what is, may yet fall under the Shadow."I have heard of 'The Wheel of Time' from my cousin, Brandon Sanderson, the readers and my Goodreads friend.
Then I have heard that Brandon Sanderson was influenced by Robert Jordan and I have seen many readers have praised towards 'The Wheel of Time'.
I can see that Jordan has copied it from Tolkien but I don't mind because Jordan has his own original idea of storyline.I have noticed that Brandon Sanderson and George R.R. Martin have used the name for the character from Robert Jordan's ideas the names of his characters.
Other characters join their journey along the way, as they travel to a destination that they hope will protect them from the evil that seeks to capture their souls and, ultimately to the mysterious Eye of the World itself, to shore up the forces that imprison this evil.Robert Jordan’s debts to J.R.R. Tolkien are fairly obvious: the group of unsophisticated young men, from a small, isolated community, join a quest and undertake a long journey, continuously battling against a powerful malevolent force and pursued by its evil minions.
The free sample ended just as things started to get interesting, so I went to a library and borrowed a full book.
The most developed world of any fantasy books (OK, except Tolkien's Middle Earth).
Whoever reads this review and finds the beginning of this book to be too slow - stick with it until the party splits; I will not give you details to avoid spoilers, but this is where the pacing of plot really picks up.
BTW, for people who have not read the books: I envy you, as if you do, you will embark on a wonderful journey.
Even knowing exactly where it was going, I still wasn't bored.This has everything you could possibly want in a classic, epic fantasy: humble beginnings; reluctant self-discovery; prophecies; creepy, dark, evil enemies of various types; good guys with unknown motivations; a unique magic system; swords and fighting men (and women); memories and relics of old things; cities; remote places; survival on the run; a vast world with many glimpses of what is to come...
I love the feeling of being in this world, and 14 books gives me that long to soak it in.Another thing I've always enjoyed about The Wheel of Time is that it has both male and female lead characters, and really great supporting ones as well.
I was so scared to start this series for two reasons 1) of course, 14 tomes are scary!
First thing first, Eye of the World takes its inspirations from Middle-Earth is plain to see.
It is a huge book and as most tomes tend to plod at times this one too suffers the same fate.
Second thing that I didn’t like about this book was that there were too many characters.
Hope it will be more original and less a copy of Middle Earth.Also i would like to thank Iniya who joined me for this tome and will be there with me on this long journey of our own.
Дори само двама души да беше влюбил Робърт Джордан във фентъзи романите, пак щеше да е свършил повече работа от доста хора по света.Плаках за него, когато научих, че си е отишъл.
Доста след това плаках и за Тери Пратчет, защото изпитах същото усещане, че една малка светлинка е угаснала и светът е станал с мъничко по-тъмен.
И все пак, понеже я четох твърде отдавна, сякаш преди много време в една далечна галактика, планирам един ден да си доставя неземното удоволствие да прочета всички романи накуп.
2016 is The Year of the Wheel for me, I'm reading a book a month in this series. Yes I know that will take me into 2017 but I don't care. Brandon Sanderson was influenced by Robert Jordan and finished out the series for him so it must be good.Reading with some friends at Buddies Books and Baubles and Sanctum of Fantasy.Great intro into a series. RTC
DNF @503 years after I finished this book and a year after I DNF-ed the third one I decided to give this series another chance.
There is interesting worldbuilding here and potentially good heroic tale but I just can't look past so many annoying characters and this time around was even worse because I knew they become even more annoying.
I like heroic fantasy (when done properly) and I love long epics and some of my favorite people on GR love this series so I wanted to love it but and I kind of feel bad for hating it with a passion.
At book seven, Crown of Thorns, halfway through, I decided I'd wasted enough time on Mr. Jordan and his wordiness, so I employed a slow speed-reading method which got me through them a lot faster.
There are other people I know who've given up earlier than me, and others who've not even bothered to start because they know it's going to end bad.On the plus side, I get to sell all my Robert Jordan books and make money off him!Sayonara.If you liked this review, and would like to read more, go to BookBanter.
4.25/5"The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills"The Eye of the World, the first epic fantasy book in the Wheel of Time series by Robert Jordan, provided me with exactly the kind of experience I expected from it.1.
Enough epicness to prove that it is truly one of the greats.Reading the Eye of the World, I have realized that I have grown out of many of the less modern fantasy themes and styles of writing.
The Eye of the World was definitely that.The story was not entirely what I expected, although it did have the classic and typical fantasy tropes.
At the top of my list was some kind of epic fantasy book that was kind of like Lord of the Rings but different.
This book apparently gets a lot of negativity because it copies so much from Tolkien, but I didn’t care.
Man, I just loved every time these guys wandered into a new town, found that town’s inn with its fun little name, talked to that inn’s hospitable and maybe sinister innkeeper, met more townsfolk, rested, strategized, etc.
I loved meeting new people and learning more about the history and setting of the story.
I also have a lot more to read so I’m sure things will work themselves out.
A 5 star series, 4 stars for this work“The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend.
This book can be read on its own and I strongly encourage anyone interested in taking up the long series to give this first novel a go.
So before I pump up the entire series I'll briefly tell you what this novel is about.In the usual fantasy manner we start out with a sheepherder whose life is interrupted by the arrival of strangers in his village.
I'm going to go out on a limb here and say that this book was the one that put me off fantasy for years afterwards.
Part of me was slightly interested in how the whole thing was going to end but it was over-ruled by the knowledge of nine books (at the time) after this one that I was going to have to push through.
The story itself is such a fantasy cliche.
I liked that story the first couple of times I read it.
The characters are unlikeable and I sure didn't want to spend more volumes reading about them.
*** 5 ***A buddy read with my questing buddies from BB&B and loving every second of it!!! I have decided not to write reviews for the individual books of this series - this is a conscious decision, which i took in order to spare my fellow readers from never-ending fangirling and incessant praises for this reviewers favorite series ever. So, be warned,  my rating of this series is strictly subjective and no arguments, however sound and valid, would ever change my mind about it!  Thanks to my gang at BB&B and happy reading!
I think I might even have enjoyed this 2016 reread of Eye of the World more than I enjoyed my original read.
In many ways this is a very traditional epic fantasy of good vs evil and farmboys that are destined to grow into great heroes and save the world.
The saving grace for WoT and the thing that separates it from a ton of other books with the exact same premise is Jordan's engaging writing and his exceptional world building.
I think the WoT books are worthy of being considered modern fantasy greats.
Jordan's Wheel of Time series were the best fantasy books I had ever read*, the best pure stories.
I'm sure I'll do it again at some point - read the books all the way through again.
I remember faintly entertaining the paranoid fear that I sure hoped the author didn't die before finishing the series because I couldn't stand not knowing how it ended**.
It was that good.*But then somewhere around book 6 or 7, the series started going down hill.
Some other author is going to finish the final book though.
As the Wheel of Time turns places wear many names.
Men wear many names, many faces.
While you can argue that the storyline is not that groundbreaking, I felt that the writing on its own was strong.So it will all turn out like one of Thom's stories?
Are you a hero sheepherder?Jordan juggles a lot of characters and while I don't feel like the characters were developed amazingly, most didn't feel like strangers.
But I feel that the character development will continue in the next books, so I'm not in any rush.All in all a good read if you can manage to get the Tolkien comparisons out of your head!
Aptly titled. Wheel of Time, as in you will never get back the time it will take you to read this 14-book (11,000 ebook pages), milquetoast, filler-filled, rip off of TLOTR. Bottom line, friends should not let friends read WOT.
