https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84005.A_Treatise_on_White_Magic
After reading over 300 pages of this book I found myself wanting to understand it more clearly. So I decided to put it down and study the topics that are mentioned here. Now after reading books on Yoga, Meditation, Spirituality, Chakras, Astrology, Astronomy and even Metaphysics I feel ready for this book. I am exited to start it over again and wonder if its goning to be enough to fully comprehend it or if its going to guide me to other paths for more clarity.
I am currently studying this book. I have read the contents of this book in entirety, yet there is I have oodles more to absorb. It is the current text for my yoga class. I recommend it to anyone. :-)
this is a pretty intense read, but awesome for anyone who is VERY serious about their own spiritual path
Subjectively, this book doesn't interest me much as it follows a completely different path than I do and I see it as just another book with entry level information.BUTObjectively, I think this is an excellent book for a beginner! It has a ton of valuable information and great ideas for further thinking and research in such a compact volume! I recommend it if you are just starting out your journey in the occult.
No stars for this tripe, but that is not an available option. Read online review "In Theosophy's Shadow" for reasons to avoid it and all of AA Bailey's writings.
Outstanding classic in every way. AAB is not always an easy read but she was just an amanuensis for the Master DK. Wonderful stuff!
One of the first of the books by A.A. Bailey that I read although students had spoken of Consciousness of the Atom before it. White Magic introduces the concept of Will to Good. Good will. It's best not to think in racial terms when thinking of the White Magic and the White Brotherhood also introduced in this book.
How devoted I was to this book in my youth! And how it then de-humanised me ...But Meditations on the Tarot saved my soul http://corjesusacratissimum.org/2009/...
An amazing book largely because of the way it is supposedly written. Alice Bailey channels "the tibetan" whose treatise this is. It is quite detailed esoterica about causing good in the inner realms. I don't know if I ascribe to it, but I certainly learned a lot by reading it.
I never actually finished it... It was hard to read for extended periods bc of how dry it is... Oh yeah & I lost out somehow! Ugh... It is a great, informative work
Fantastic book relating to the taking of up to the third initiation for disciples - read it many times and you will always find more depth to it.
great book!! difficult but worth it :)
my copy of this is put back together with masking tape that is now flaking. i also made a cardboard back for it from an old legal pad. this is the conspiracy-theory i really believe.
