https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300853.Treatise_on_the_Gods
Like many people in history, the more we get to know them the more disenchanted we can become.
Recent understanding of the extent of Mencken’s racism and antisemitism made visible through his diaries blunts so much of what there was to like about this early twentieth century newspaper man, pundit, reviewer and newspaper editor.This is the last of Mencken’s writings I will read.
Although Menken clearly spent the energy to consult the experts of his day, he himself was no expert in religious history or theology.
But this book is a disappointment much like the disappointment one feels after getting to know Mencken too well.
Comprehensive review of religion and a complete demolition of it. Should be required reading in schools to decontaminate minds corrupted by religious idiocy.
!!! Buyer beware. My copy of this used book (through Amazon) is missing about 30 pages, and another 30 are duplicated. Johns Hopkins University Press, 1997 Second Edition.I suspect every copy of that issue is the same, as I later saw a disclaimer on AbeBooks of "possible missing pages" from this book.Sepia cover with Mencken open-mouth, cigar in hand, book on his lap.This is a rock-solid 5-star book, even with the missing pages.Though a layman to Theology, I have read a good bit, yet Treatise on the Gods is thoroughly interesting and enlightening and well- and simply written.
Also Mencken remarks that the Earth is large and there is enough room on its epidermis for all of us.The first chapter is speculative, but is a very plausible explanation of the origin of the occupation of the priest.
The priest codifies a set of rules that he knows will be difficult to follow for most humans, and then invokes the breakage of said rules, anytime his rituals fail to provide favorable treatment by the gods.
The chapter shows each religion as less of a unique idea, and more of a language, musical genre, or the genetic makeup of an complex organism in that it has many influences.The fourth chapter is dedicated solely to Christianity and its origins.
One good example, from the final chapter: One of its basic postulates that the whole process of nature is a sort of continuing miracle, and that it thus establishes the existence of an omnipotent and irresponsible God, -- in brief, of the chartered libertine who is the hero of the Old Testament.The error here, of course, consists in confusing what to simply marvelous with what is actually miraculous.
But it is certainly more nearly complete that was 50 years ago, or a century ago, or a millennium ago, and there is every reason to believe that it will become still more completely hereafter -- that all her nearly all of the natural processes, and the course of time, we brought into harmony with invariable laws.
This book is divided into five large chapters, each one being different in subject and tone.
These two first chapters lacked much of the renown Mencken wit, reading more scholarly and thus a bit dryer.
He then moves on to look at all manner of religions in the world, old and new, small and large, which was both interesting, informative, and amusing from his tone of writing.
Overall I loved it, and I look forward to reading more Mencken.
Blunt, forthright, funny and -- at times -- forgiving of those who suspend reason. Mencken strays toward the hypothetical in discussion of origins of religions, particularly in preliterate societies, but is joyously blunt on the contemporary variants of his time ((published 1930). Dismissive of attempts to reconcile religion and science, dismissing Gould's non-overlapping magisteria nonsense more than a half century before it was coined. Particularly scathing toward US protestant fundamentalism and the corrupting influence mass ignorance has on democracy ("no more nonsense has ever been put into words by presumably civilized men"). Refreshingly elitist and a joy to read.
While we often think of Mencken as a reporter and a humorist, this book shows he was also a religious scholar, widely read in the history of religion and comparative religion. Yes, he is a bit of a skeptic, but his analyses and examples shed important light on today's religious conflicts.....and, importantly, on the common aspects of various religions. He has a humanistic view of the probable rise of religion, conception of afterlives and visions of heaven and hell. The book was a complete surprise, deep and engaging.
Amazing treatise on the evolution of religion and brief history of the Christian Church. Written over 80years ago, this single book covers a lot of ground of authors like Gibbon, Hitchens, Dawkins and Ehrman. One disagreement with the book, I don't think the bible as literature, is as quite as good as H.L Mencken suggests.
HLM is a great essayist, too bad, since Christopher Hitchens died, there are not many like him left. Menchken spins his word webs around the pure and the pompous with unerring wit and an eye to ironic detail. Read on friends. It is always nice to know there is someone out there watching our backs, against all the fools who think they have all the answers in one little book.
Treatise on the Gods is a mix of Frazer, William James and Bart Ehrman, but without convention or inhabitation. I noticed some fact discrepancies, but he makes his points with style. I furiously scribbled all kinds of great quotes out of this book and I will add a few here eventually.
This book, published in 1930, is a vicious attack on organized religion, and contains an ugly anti-semitism. Despite that, it is a very entertaining romp, full of pithy skewerings of pastors and priests. Love it and/or hate it.
Mencken's prejudices and some of his facts are umistakably dated, and inevitably peek through here and there. For all that, he remains engaging, intelligent, and enjoyable. Highly recommended for the more serious atheists and agnostics.
An indispensable critique on the creation and rise of religions, to the then-state of the 'twenties Christian faith; as well as a book by a man who loved to think and read for himself. A fine testament to heresy.
A wonderful, speculative history of the origin and development of religion. It becomes more Christianity centered as the book progressed -- understandable considering he was an American. A must read for all interested in religion.
Treatise on the Gods (Maryland Paperback Bookshelf) by H. L. Mencken (2006)
When I am king this will be required reading by all of the youth.
written as a series of obituaries for various world religions.
This is the book the put me over the edge and commit as a believer in God.
