https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30120.Falling_Up
Shel Silverstein's books never fail to put a smile on my face.Firstly, because they are charming and delightful, funny and witty, but also because they bring me back to my childhood. My friends and I used to read Silverstein poems and perform them in class, and anytime I read them now they bring me back to those days.It's time to get my hands on a copy of Where the Sidewalk Ends once again.

Falling up: poems and drawings, Shel Silverstein عنوان: بالا افتادن؛ وقتی به سن تو بودم؛ سقوط به بالا؛ نویسنده: شل سیلور اشتاین؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه مارس سال 1997 میلادی، دومین خوانش: نوزدهم آوریل سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: وقتی به سن تو بودم؛ نویسنده: شل سیلور اشتاین؛ مترجم: رضی خدادادی (هیرمندی)؛ تهران، هستان، 1378، در 54 ص؛ چاپ چهارم 1379؛ شابک: 9646965229؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نشر هوای تازه، 1380، شابک: 9647222521؛ موضوع: شعر طنز کودکان از نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 معنوان: سقوط به بالا؛ نویسنده:
ایشان هرگز نمی‌خواستند که برای بچه‌ ها بنویسند و با اصرار یکی از دوستانش که نویسنده ی کودکان بود، به جهان ادبیات کودک آمد، و سبکی تازه و تک را بنیان نهاد.
سیلورستاین اگرچه به عنوان شاعر و نویسنده ی کودکان شناخته می‌شود اما آثارش بین بزرگسالان نیز بسیار دوست داشتنی استبالا افتادنبند کفشم به پایم گیر کردسکندری خوردم و افتادم بالابالای پشت بامهابالای درختهابالای کوهها، بالای آن جا که رنگها و صداها باهم یکی میشوند.؛اما وقتی به دور و برم نگاه کردم،؛سرم گیج رفت،حال تهوع بهم دست دادو آوردم پایین.؛ا.
But it got me so dizzyWhen I looked around,I got sick to my stomachAnd I threw down.WOULDA-COULDA-SHOULDAAll the Woulda-Coulda-ShouldasLayin' in the sun,Talkin' 'bout the thingsThey woulda-coulda-shoulda done...But those Woulda-Coulda-ShouldasAll ran away and hidFrom one little did.SHARINGI'll share your toys, I'll share your money,I'll share your toast, I'll share your honey,I'll share your milk and your cookies too --The hard part's sharing mine with you.KEEP-OUT HOUSEAt last--I finished my keep-out house,A house that's meant for privacy,A house that's meant for peacefulness,A house just meant for only me.There is no door where strangers knock,No window where they peek and grin.A perfect private keep-out house...Now...how do I get in?THREE STINGSGeorge got stung by a bee and said,"I wouldn't have got stung if I'd stayed in bed."Fred got stung and we heard him roar,"What am I being punished for?"Lew got stung and we heard him say,"I learned somethin' about bees today."HELP!I walked through the wildwood, and what did I seeBut a unicorn with his horn stuck in a tree,Cryin', "Someone please help me before it's too late."I hollered, "I'll free you." He hollered back, "Wait--How much will it hurt?

A very cute book of poems that I read to my daughter for a change of pace. It was clever, witty and funny. Sometimes a little weird, but still a fun read for children.
اشعار کوتاه بامزهی به ظاهر کودکانه ولی معنادار.بعضی از شعرهاش واقعا منو میخندوند یا به فکر فرو میبرد.خلاقیت شل سیلورستان فوقالعاده بالاست.ترجمه حمید خادمی خیلی خوب بود ولی متن انگلیسیش بهتر حس رو منتقل میکرد که مخصوصا در مورد شعر طبیعیه.
اشعار کوتاه بامزه‌ی به ظاهر کودکانه ولی معنادار.بعضی از شعرهاش واقعا منو می‌خندوند یا به فکر فرو می‌برد.خلاقیت شل سیلورستان فوق‌العاده بالاست.ترجمه حمید خادمی خیلی خوب بود ولی متن انگلیسیش بهتر حس رو منتقل می‌کرد که مخصوصا در مورد شعر طبیعیه.
Probably my favorite illustrations in this book was of the image of the pet lion in the poem “Unfair” as it looked incredibly creepy and surreal at the same time and the characters from the poem “Rotten Convention” as they look truly frightening and surreal, especially the image of a man who has a knife going through his head.Parents should know that like most of Shel Silverstein’s books, there are some poems that might either frighten children or cause them to perform the crazy stunts that the characters did in this book.
Parents should probably read this book before they show it to their children to see if they can handle the content in this book.Overall, “Falling Up” is a truly brilliant book that contains some of Shel Silverstein’s most memorable poems and many adults and children will definitely enjoy the wacky humor of these poems!
با اینکه ترجمه ی نسبتا خوبی داشت، ولی بنظرم اصلا قابل ترجمه نیستن این شعرها..
وخوشحالم که متن انگلیسی شان هم بود که از خواندنشان لذت ببرم :)نقاشی های قشنگش..
قوه ی تخیل بامزه ش که انگار از بند اون چارچوب های ذهنی رهامون می کرد...از این واااقعا خوشم اومد :))" پام گفت: هی، بریم برقصیم.زبونم گفت: بیا بریم یه لقمه بزنیم.مغزم گفت: بیا یه کتاب خوب بخونیم.چشمم گفت: بیا یه چرتی بزنیم.زانوم گفت: بیا یک کم راه بریم.پشتم گفت: بیا سوار کاری کنیم.نشیمنم گفت: خوب، من هم همین جا می شینم تا شما ها تصمیم تون رو بگیرید."همچنین "داستان لک لک" رو هم خیلی دوست داشتم :)--متعلق به زمانی است که نرگس، نرگس اینا بود، من رعنا اینا، لیلی لیلی اینا....
4.0 to 4.5 stars. I think this is my favorite Shel Silverstein offering. One of those books that can be enjoyed by children and adults depending on how deeply you dive into the meaning of the stories. Incredibly imaginative and very well done.
I fell in love with the plays on words and how childlike the poems were. It didn't take a whole lot of thinking to interpret the poems, because it was all there, clearly stated in the poem.
البته میشه گفت 60 درصد شعرای کتاب محتواش واقعا برای بچه ها جذابیت داره و برای سن های بالاتر صرفا جالب می تونه باشه و ذهن رو مشغول نمی کنه چندان.
شعرهای خوب زیاد توش هست که برای بزرگترها هم جالب باشه هم فکرشون رو مشغول کنه و چیزی یاد بگیرن یا یادآوری بشه.
مترجم سعی کرده ورژن فارسی شعرها رو هم مثل ورژن انگلیسی آهنگین و با قافیه کنه ولی به شدت ناموفق بوده و ترجمه لوس و خیلی جاها کاملا متفاوت با ورژن انگلیسی هست.
This is the third Silverstein book I've read to my brother, and he hasn't seemed to show me one bit that he's tired of it. He's really enjoyed this one, and I found myself laughing out loud a couple of times too. This is another great book to read at bedtime or I guess, anytime.
After seeing this on one of my friends list I couldn’t resist re-reading it. I read this book to my children when they were small. It’s both entertaining and educational. It’s a great way to introduce children to art, poetry and the limitless of one’s imagination.
I Love the poem about Pinnochio!!! okie dokie-io!
All the Woulda-Coulda-ShouldasLayin' in the sun,Talkin' 'bout the thingsThey woulda-coulda-shoulda done...But those Woulda-Coulda-Shouldas All ran awayFrom one little  did.
With black, sketched illustrations on cream colored pages, the words flow down the pages as they do off of the reader’s tongue.
The silly and quirky stories use different types of poetic structures to show different themes- from deep messages about telling the truth to respecting grownups.
The lack of color and detailed illustration is made up by the witty and unique use of words.
The words alone paint a picture in the readers mind, and evoke the children reader’s creativity and help to grow their analytical skills.
As they read, the children can pick up on the poetic style and may feel inspired to write their own poems.
One Word Review Game/Challenge: Poems, poems, and even more poemsMy Review: I love all of Silverstein's poems, but this book has to be my favorite collection of his poems.
I just found them very enjoyable to read, some made me crack a smile and a little laugh at times.
This was a very fun book for me to read.
I appreciate the way that Silverstein approaches the poems and crafts them together.
Another thing I appreciated was how these poems aren't too advanced, at all, and they are something that a younger student/child could read, or be read, and understand most of.
واقعا سيلور استاين كه ميگن اينه هااصلن قوه ي تخيل اينو هيچكي ندارهجدا از اين كه از خارق العاده هم فراتره،چقدر ترسناكهبعضي شعراش واقعا مورمورم كرد
lol!i can recite a poem right form it!!Ickle me, pickle me, tickle me tooent for a ride in a flying 
Loved the poems as a child and still do!!!
Such a fun read!
We've read them together and our girls love the poems, especially our youngest.
So for her birthday this year, I bought her this book.
I think I read it years ago, but since I didn't own it, I don't know the poems nearly as well.
Our youngest only 'allows' us to read a couple of poems together each night, so it took us quite a long time to finish this book.
It was just as enjoyable as the other books and we all looked forward to reading a couple of poems each night.
This is an amusing if not quite classic set of poems for children. Some are fairly conventional offering relatively common and unexceptionable didacticism, but others definitely play into children's appreciation for the macabre, the cheeky, and the transgressive. There's rather more death and dismemberment than you might expect in work aimed at fairly young readers, but Silverstein knows that kids love to be repelled, grossed out, and scared, within certain limits, and he does not shy away from appealing to kids' interest in the darker side. The whole thing is aided immeasurably by Silverstein's vivid, clearly-etched illustrations.
i remember when i was in first grade, i had to do read a poem from his poem book Falling Up and i decided to pick a poem about this little kid going home and he notices a hat following him, the little kid gets all paranoid and relizes the hat has a tail.
the little boy picks up the hat a comes to find that under the hat was either a little cat or a dog, i really cant remember, it was kind of a long time ago.
this is a good mindset for a child and thats why i really like this book.
Great book. Really fun to read outloud to my children. I find it more fun to read as an adult than it was as a child. Just brilliant. Favorite poem. Tell me pg. 154 Tell me I'm clever,Tell me I'm kind,Tell me I'm talented,Tell me I'm cute,Tell me I'm sensitive,Graceful and wise,Tell me I'm perfect-But tell me the truth.This book is as close to perfection as can be. And that's the truth.
خیــلی بچه بودم که اینُ خوندم. خیـــلیا! جزوِ اولین کتابهاییه که خوندم تا جایی که یادمه. همون حدودای چار سال و اینام باید بودهباشه. :-؟ بعد یادمه اونموقع یواشکی خوندمش؛ انقـدر خوب بود که وقتی باهار اومد توی اتاق و این رو دستم دید نفهمیدم و به خوندن ادامه دادم. :یبسیار دوستداشتنی و نوستالژیک ه برای من.× این که وضعیتِ ظاهری کتاب رو Poor زدهم، بهخاطرِ این ه که ورقورق شده از فرط خوندهشدن. :-"
خیــلی بچه بودم که اینُ خوندم. خیـــلیا! جزوِ اولین کتاب‌هاییه که خوندم تا جایی که یادمه. همون حدودای چار سال و اینام باید بوده‌باشه. :-؟ بعد یادمه اون‌موقع یواشکی خوندم‌ش؛ انقـدر خوب بود که وقتی باهار اومد توی اتاق و این رو دست‌م دید نفهمیدم و به خوندن ادامه دادم. :یبسیار دوست‌داشتنی و نوستالژیک ه برای من.× این که وضعیتِ ظاهری کتاب رو Poor زده‌م، به‌خاطرِ این ه که ورق‌ورق شده از فرط خونده‌شدن. :-"
I read this years ago when I was younger but I do think I need to read them again. I want to read them to the kids but the stack of books to read them is already out of control and only one actually stays listening.... They are so cute and I remembered a few once I read them again. Where the Sidewalk Ends will always be my favorite of the two.
"Falling Up" is like any other Shel Silverstein poetry books. The reason I didn't like this book very much was because her poems don't have any deep meaning to them. It annoys me how Shel Silverstein tries to be funny but isn't. One good thing about this book is how creative the poems are. "Falling Up" is a okay poetry book, and if you enjoy poetry you might like it.
I love his books, the flow of the poems and the way he captures little snippets of real life is amazing. I think Shel is extrememly gifted. Everyone of his books is up there in my list of favorites.
