https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/909451.The_Compleat_Enchanter
There weren't as many fantasy books to draw upon either.Great system they set up for how magic works through mathematical formulas.
Shea isn't the big bruiser type although he carries an epee and knows fencing which lets him beat a lot of people.
Oh, and, of course, he also knows magic but sometimes that messes up or does things differently.For its time and even today, a great book for fantasy fans.
reviews.metaphorosis.com 3 starsBored psychologist Harold Shea draws on his mentor's work to transfer bodily to the world of Norse mythology, and later to other lands, posing most often as a sorceror, with exciting consequences.Collecting a series of stories mostly written for magazines in the 1940s, I liked this book better the first time I read it.
If you haven't read them, these won't hurt, but some of De Camp's solo work might provide a better payoff.By the way - the first two stories in the book were published as The Incomplete Enchanter, thus the title here of The Complete Enchanter.
What I learned from this book? Yngvi is a louse!Was looking for this in my brain--couldn't remember title!Thanks again, Dan.Thannasset
Unfortunately, in marked contrast with that story, I don't think The Compleat Enchanter holds up that well in 2016.The premise is amusing enough: a research psychiatrist (because it's the 1950s, and psychiatry is hot shit) discovers that one can translate oneself to parallel worlds by reciting alternative logical formulae, such as the laws describing how magic works (like affects like, etc.).
The Compleat Enchanter follows Harold Shea as he bounces between worlds from Earth's mythical and literary history, interacting with the characters therein: first as he accidentally winds up in the world of Norse mythology on the eve of Ragnarok, second in the world of Spenser's The Faerie Queene, and third in the world of Ariosto's Orlando Furioso.And that's about the right decreasing order of quality.
Harold is soon put in his place.If you are looking for a humorous read, and want to learn a bit about classic literature, along with myth and legend at the same time, then this is for you.Recommended for lovers of lighthearted, historical fantasy.The first two stories in the series, ‘The Roaring Trumpet’ and ‘The Mathematics of Magic’ have both been nominated in this year’s Retro Hugo Awards as best novella of 1940.The collection has a complicated publishing history, so be careful which edition you buy.
It features what is, by now, a familiar theme of the swords-and-sorcery adventures of Appendix N - ordinary people from our world (specifically, from the time of the writing, 1940s USA) being transported to fantasy worlds and having to survive there.
Anyway, it is well-told, though the colloquial nature of the dialogue suffers after so long (1940s slang rings a bit oddly, now, in modern ears), and I fear that most people have lost the sensibilities, as well as the grounding in Western literature, to appreciate the artistry with which Pratt and De Camp re-create the settings of Spencerian or Carolingian literature.
The stories center around Harold Shea, a modern man and psychologist who travels to different literary adventure universes.
The stories themselves are tongue and cheek, as Harold is a modern man in a highly stylized and not-at-all politically correct tale.
If you've ever wanted to see cultural appropriation in its native habitat, this is it.The tales themselves read dully.
Here's an indication that the requirements on women of the day were so restrictive that even men were wanting to loosen things up.When it comes to D&D, this book is rife with source material.
I would have five-starred the first novella in this volume, The Roaring Trumpet: perfectly light fantasy, original premise with enough of the familiar, lots of fun.
However, each of The Mathematics of Magic and The Castle of Iron follow from just one work (The Faerie Queene and Orlando Furioso, respectively).
The Mathematics of Magic dealt with this problem better for choosing a smaller section of The Faerie Queene for Shea and Chalmers to travel to, while The Castle of Iron felt to me more summary.
I found the three novellas in The Compleat Enchanter: The Magical Misadventures of Harold Shea so utterly fun and charming that as soon as I finished the book, I was overcome by a great sadness resulting from knowing that I would never again get that magical experience of reading it for the first time.
However, I soon realized that the novellas in this book are so wonderful that they will be just as good upon a second or third or any other thereafter reading.
Three entertaining novellas in one... for the most part. These do contain a young adult naivete that exemplifies classic sword and sorcery fantasy of the pulpy cheesy kind, so they are certainly not epic or full of deep meaning. Things start out a bit awkwardly yet with a touch of whimsy that brings out a certain 1940's mindset, but unfortunately each story got progressively worse in style, content, and interest -- in that order. Not sure if I would be interested in pursuing any other tales in this series.
Fun to read one of the foundational books of fantasy literature, which spawned a whole series of imitators and served as a starting point for a wide number of books. Some of it reflects a 1940's mentality, but it really was a leap forward for the genre with heroes that would think their way through problems much of the time over simply bludgeoning their out of trouble. The conceptual ideas are a lot of fun and the worlds are deeply entertaining for anyone familiar with mythological literature and/or poetry.
It takes a lot to make me laugh out loud while reading a book, yet I found myself doing so several times while reading this collection. 3 books regarding the trials and errors of one Harold Shea, psychologist. He travels through various worlds of myth and legend, meets strange and wonderous people and creatures, and meets the "dream-girl" he had been waiting for. Let's say Xanth meets MiddleEarth, before either had been imagined. Have fun!
An adventurous young man and an old professor discover a way to transport themselves into alternate realities by fiddling with the rules of logic in their "syllogismobile". Pratt was mostly know for his detailed fictional worlds and De Camp was known for humorous adventure fantasy, and the combination makes for excellent reading.
Groundbreaking for it's time, I can easily see how it influenced Dungeons and Dragons magic system, but it does not hold up well. there is very little world building which is what we expect from modern speculative fiction. Instead it relies on the world's built by others, which is a fun feat for those familiar with the literary works explored.
Stupendo libro, assoluta poesia. L'ho adorato per la sua particolarità, per come giustifica l'esistenza della magia, l'esistenza dei mondi fantastici stessi, per l'assoluta logica e indiscussa varietà della storia. Meraviglioso, non esagero nel dire che sia uno dei fantasy che in assoluto mi è piaciuto di più.
A delightful collection of three long stories of mythic time travel with a single main character. Published first in fantasy pulp magazines in the early 1940, they show much wit and thoughtfulness. The last story was a bit thin. One of the great forefathers of Tolkien's works.
It's the source of some of the rules of magic in Dungeons & Dragons, but otherwise this is a fairly unremarkable book.
I have to admit I didn't finish this one compleatly..... Something about the tone or style I just don't enjoy.
Warning for being dated (some racism, some sexism), but pretty enjoyable otherwise.
Funny and clever in spots, with mathemagic and various sideways magical worlds. The sexism and racism (unconscious, I'm sure) of its time tends to shine through, though, and I rolled my eyes a lot.
old book, but great story based on "Orlando Furioso". I first read it in about 1964 and then again in 2012, just as good the second time around.
This was the first fantasy book I read that I fell in love with. It is different and an easy read. Will forever have a special place for me.
A bit too whimsical for me.
An old and beloved favorite
Fantasy
When I donated my books in 2004, this is one I kept. Enchanting. Compleatly.
I first read the adventures of Harold Shae back in the 1970s. They hold up a really good fantasy adventure series where the fantasy is a solid as hard science fiction.
Due to a combination of life (better known as job) and how reading the third novella in this book went, the last third of the book probably took me 3 weeks to read.
The first one, The Roaring Trumpet is probably the best read as it sets up the plot and he learns what he can and can't do in the world he is warped into.
The second, Mathematics of Magic does more of the same and this time we even get a little bit of romance.
Which is why it took three weeks of trying to finish up the book and do the subsequent review.
The first book in this collection was quite fun.
There was a section about a wizards meeting which really reminded me of both Pratchett and Rowling - I wonder if they read this when they were younger and then improved the germ of an idea in their far more successful creations.
The later books in the series were pretty dreary.
I have a feeling that as the series collaboration progessed it became more of Sprague de Camps - and less of Pratts - and I think it was Pratts involvement which made it intially interesting for me - (his science of magic was nicely done).
I enjoyed the multiple literary worlds the characters travel through (Norse Ragnarok, Spenser's "The Faerie Queene," Coleridge's "Xanadu", "Orlando Furioso" and the Irish myths of Maeve and Cuchulain); however, the actual plot was repetitive and juvenile.
