https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92005.The_Shaping_of_Middle_Earth
In the first two volumes we were given Tolkien’s earliest drafts of the tales that would (albeit in an often much transformed manner) ultimately become the main stories of the First Age of Middle-earth all joined together by a narrative framing conceit that tied it in explicitly to our own world’s history (an element that never actually left the tales, but became much less apparent as time wore on).
This will be my 12-volume write-up of the entire series "The History of Middle Earth".--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------This series is ONLY for the hardcore Tolkien fanatic.
But the downside to this is that it isn't very fun to read.
You can only read yet another version of Beren and Luthien so many times before you're tired of seeing the miniscule changes from one version to the next.So, overall, I slogged through this over about a year.
I'd say it was worth it in the end for someone like me who loves Tolkien and his entire created world of Arda (and Ea in general).
But I'll never re-read them.
This made the overall history of Middle-Earth clearer than the previous volumes of The Histories of Middle-Earth, though that may have been in part because this is essentially the third time I've read the stories in their various incarnations.
Tolkien's writing is beautiful even in its unfinished form, and Christopher Tolkien's comments are insightful and explanatory as in the previous books.
It also included some pages written in Old English, which although I couldn't read them, were still neat for the fact that they were in Old English, and were not so long as to make me feel like I had wasted my money buying a book I couldn't read.
Sadly the reviews are starting to sound the same at this point, Tolkien’s original attention to detail, and his son’s research exposing the creation and growth of the story through multiple revisions and discarded or enhanced paths continues to amaze.
The Shaping of Middle-Earth (The History of Middle-Earth #4), J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien (Editor)
The first part of the book describes, in the scrap-book fashion form, sketches of the phases of the birth of the mythology; i.e. explanations and annotations are organized as re-told text of previous versions of the stories that are published in official version of "The Silmarillion", along with some versions from "The Book of Lost Tales 1&2".
And in the passages that are part of "The Ambarkanta" much is told about the shaping and re-modeling of Arda (that, of course, official version of "The Silmarillion" is lacking of) along with explanations about the Circles of the World and with six by Tolkien's hand drawn draft maps.
Several different stories detailing the creation of Middle-Earth, as usual with Christopher Tolkien's many notes and insights on the manuscripts, how they differ and maybe even why.This series is so nerdy, I love it.
We are told how when Melkor was released he deceives the Noldoli called Gnomes into turning against the Valar.
Melkor holes up in Angaband creating Orcs, Balrogs and Dragon.Feanor who crafted the Jewels wants them back so he and his Noldoli steal ships from the Teleri and go there.
Gothmog the head Balrog clays Feanor and Maidros his eldest son his hung suspended by his wrist only to be rescued later on.
Earedel will contact the Valar on behalf of man and elf and Manwe’s son will take on Melkor.
Until then Melkor is locked beyond the doors of time bound by hand and foot.
Volume 4 of the History of Middle Earth comes with the usual disclaimer for this series- this is for Tolkien enthusiast only.The Shaping Of Middle-Earth still has some fascinating insights but the reader is definitely treading familiar ground here.
We have three more iterations of the Silmarillion stories, each time getting closer to their final form.
There is also included some translations of portions of the stories into Anglo-Saxon, and although I am a hardcore fan, I am not that hardcore to learn to read Anglo Saxon!There will be some new material next time though as Tolkien expands his legendarium into the second age!
The Shaping of Middle-Earth is second only to the Letters of J.R.R. Tolkien for the purpose of explaining the science (social, political, psychological) behind the evolution of Tolkien's ficticious world.It also contains flat out statements by Tolkien as to much of his imagery, statements which quickly end the majority of ill-conceived concepts proposed by armchair philosopher's.
Good like the others but since I'm marathoning these this one felt repetitive and didn't deliever as much on geography as I had hoped it would.
At this point I've almost stopped caring about the narrative itself (although, reading through these histories, I'm so bombarded with repetition that even Fucking Turin comes to be slightly affecting, which at this point I can only put down to Stockholm Syndrome).
No such sympathy for the house of Fucking Fëanor, though, who should have been drowned at birth, the whole wretched clan of them, obsessed with their own bling as they are.
This book basically traces the evolution of the stories, from very early sketches to the most complete forms available, and as a writer myself - albeit not one at Tolkien's level - I do find that interesting.
Sketches and Annals of the First AgeOnce again (after  Vol.1 ,  Vol.2  and  Vol.3 ), Christopher Tolkien transports us in the First Age, sifting through the mare magnum of his father's notes. Far from being redundant, the new documents from which  The Silmarillion  derived, elucidate some of the obscure points in the originally published mythology, while at the same time unveiling the huge creative work behind the creation of the fantastic world of Middle-Earth. A special treat for the Old-Engli
Sketches and Annals of the First AgeOnce again (after 
  Vol.1
, 
  Vol.2
 and 
  Vol.3
), Christopher Tolkien transports us in the First Age, sifting through the mare magnum of his father's notes. Far from being redundant, the new documents from which 
  The Silmarillion
 derived, elucidate some of the obscure points in the originally published mythology, while at the same time unveiling the huge creative work behind the creation of the fantastic world of Middle-Earth. A special treat for the Old-English enthusiasts: to fuel the Ælfwine of England narrative, small parts of the Annals were translated in Old-English!
The thing that dragged it down was the fact that I seemed to be rereading summaries of events in The Silmarillion over and over again.
Just a lot of name changes and date changes.
The most interesting part for me was The Earliest Annals of Beleriand.
This was interesting because it provided dates for all big events.
This helped me to get a bigger picture of the First Age of Middle Earth.
Overall, if you bought the History of Middle Earth Collection and are debating reading this one, just read through The Earliest Annals of Beleriand chapter and call it a day.
It's always difficult to rate these "History of Middle-Earth", primarily because it's all comprised of material which Tolkien either A. hadn't finished, or B. hadn't published for one reason or another. Regardless of one's opinion of the material, it is a fascinating look into Tolkien's mind, and the commentary provided by Christopher Tolkien is certainly fascinating.
Still incredibly interesting and insightful, this book however has a lot of boring crap. I mean at this point we’ve read the history of middle earth twice and this book has us read the history another 5 times. Along with a bunch of Old English crap you can’t even read. So, while it’s still ridiculously informative, at this point it’s like being on a hamster wheel.
If you love the Hobbit and Lord of the Rings, and are able to read Old English, this reveals an interesting identity for the Arkenstone of Thror. Tolkien uses the crafting of the Silmarillion in Old English to make a connection only a few readers might have stumbled across before.
Rather tedious reading and a lot of notes to keep track of, but fascinating if you get into the details, and the Old English annals are wonderful.
So this is one of the least useful of the 12 vol History of Middle Earths. Least enjoyable as well. If you have read the silmarillion, you have already read much of what is in here. What comes through is how many times Tolkien wrote the central myths, over and over, refining, altering, and so on. But honestly, most of the changes that happened since these early texts made the work MUCH better. So what is new to the reader isn't very good, and what is good isn't very new.
My five-star review is more reflective of the History of Middle-earth series in total.The Quenta Noldorwina and Ambarkanta are fascinating, and maps are always fun, but the progression shown in the first Annals are minimal, and don't amount to much more than Tolkien working out the timeline.
For the first time, the history of Middle-earth feels genuinely tedious - you can only read another compressed plot outline of Turin Turambar so many times before your eyes start to glaze over (the selections of Old English Tolkien wrote in keeping with his framing device also will only appeal to a select portion of readers).
This is the fourth book in the History of Middle Earth series.
At this point in time, Tolkien was moving away from the framework he used in The Lost Tales.
Once again, I followed along with The Tolkien Professor’s analysis to help me understand the text and commentary.
As I progress through the series, the stories are becoming very familiar.
Christopher Tolkien spends most of his time detailing the evolution of the names as well as pointing out the detailed differences between all the versions of the stories from The Lost Tales up to the ‘30s, when much of this text was written.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/1735779...Yet more refinement of the events of the Silmarillion, in various different formats; I'm rather glad that the next volume in this series takes us to Númenor and away from Beleriand.
The most interesting thing in this volume (though unfortunately also the least readable) is Tolkien's casting of the Annals of Beleriand into Anglo-Saxon, a very visible piece of his commitment to reshaping English mythology by giving it new roots as invented by himself, though as it turned out rather a blind alley creatively.
But this is probably the least accessible so far of this rather obscure series.
Ok, it hasn't really taken me 10 years, but I did start reading this about 10 years ago or thereabouts.
But then, those crappy movies came out and I wanted nothing to do with anything Tolkien and back on the shelf it went having only read maybe 80 pages.
Oh well....So I picked it back up a few weeks ago, now that the stupid movie hype is pretty much dead and gone (besides, it's been an unfinished book cluttering up my shelf), and finally finished it - at the last.Very cool insoght into the very beginnings of Tolkien's work - the earliest drafts of what eventually came to be the Silmarillion and as always, Christopher Tolkien's insight is just superb.
A little harder than the previous three to get into- more scholarly, more piecemeal. Reading the 5th volume now, and it's a little more engaging so far. Still learned tons of stuff about Tolkien's foundational works, and how they changed over the years, but not one of the best so far.I wrote about the experience of reading all 12 of these volumes here: http://soundscryer.com/2011/06/13/chr... (part 1) and here: http://soundscryer.com/2011/12/02/chr... (part 2). Much more detail about the series in those two pieces.
"The History of Middle-Earth" is for the ultimate Tolkien geek.These books, written by Christopher Tolkien (Tolkien's son), comprise of basically two things:1.
a succession of most of Tolkien's manuscripts that later became his great life's work (LOTR), showing how the writting of this masterpiece evolved.2.
different versions and new texts that were not included in the Silmarillion (written by Tolkien but edited by Christopher after his father's death).It's an amazing work but extremely difficult to read.
Christopher gives us excerpts of his father's texts, fully annotated by him, mixed with analysis, lots of questions and some conclusions.It is not for the fainthearted.
It starts off with a sketch or summary of the history and shaping of Middle-Earth which was a fun read.
However, the part that I mostly enjoyed was reading the Quenta portion of the book.
The reason I give this book a 3 out of 5 is simply because the story begins to seem repetitive after reading books 1-3 of the history of Middle-Earth.
So it is no surprise that the story would remain mostly familiar.
But overall, Tolkien's ability to imagine and create never ceases to amaze me as I read his literature and this book definitely lived up to that.
Out of the 12-volume History of Middle Earth, this is one for the truly dedicated. I had a had time staying immersed in this one and eventually put it back on the shelf. This has to do with the actual geography of Middle Earth (which is interesting in its own right) and of the peoples which populated certain area, but the lack of visual representations like maps made it hard to understand where things were actually located. Not exactly for the light reader, but very interesting if you are into Tolkien.
In this volume of the earlier writings of JRR Tolkien, we get insight into the further development of the legends of the First Age, with chronologies, maps, and two detailed summaries by Tolkien of how his thoughts are moving forward.He sure did love elven names starting with F.I am continuing to enjoy my deep dive into the world of Tolkien... This is a fine book to read in this series, but I do recommend reading these in order, so that you can get an appreciation of the development of Tolkien's world.
This is the fourth part of the scholarly series that Christopher Tolkien published about his father's writings, and some have said that he published all of these as a response for criticisms about how he had edited the Silmarillion.
I found this part to be more readable than some of the earlier parts, despite the fact that there are multiple versions of the Silmarillion in succession OR that there are entire pages written in Middle English.
There is also a long section about the maps that JRR Tolkien drew, including the working map that he used while writing his other books.
The Shaping of Middle-Earth takes us - again - at the beginning of things, with Ambarkanta and the earliest versions of Silmarillion and the Annals. It's one more proof of the complexity and the immense work behind Tolkien's mythology, from the exile of the Noldoli until Melkor's overthrow. At times, the story gets confusing due to the countless name changing, so it's not an easy read. But I would recommend it to the Tolkien geeks who want to keep track of the chronology of the earliest events and the birth of Middle-Earth.
