https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6418438-all-about-coffee
Required several gallons of coffee to get through it, and this was the abridged version. Filled with trite little nuggets of facts. Beh. Maybe the un-abridged is more satisfying.Sorry, did you fall asleep?
It has become recognized as a human necessity.
It is no longer a luxury or an indulgence; it is a corollary of human energy and human efficiency.
People love coffee because of its two-fold effect—the pleasurable sensation and the increased efficiency it produces.Coffee has an important place in the rational dietary of all the civilized peoples of earth.
It is a democratic beverage.
Not only is it the drink of fashionable society, but it is also a favorite beverage of the men and women who do the world's work, whether they toil with brain or brawn.
This book is a fantastic end table book and in-depth resource for pretty much everything one would want to know about the origins of the coffee industry. It reads like a text book or encyclopedia, so is best used for casual reference. Since it was written back in the 20's, much of the info is no longer relevant, but is still interesting if you're a total coffee nerd. Google or Wiki would likely yield the same info for those who don't want to shell out $50 for it.
To all intents and purposes, it's an encyclopaedia, to read it as a book was my mistake. Full of great knowledge though.
This is an important book to read for anyone in the coffee industry or anybody interested in the history of Coffee.
It is a history of the coffee world and it gives facts and information over a long period of time and across the world.
You do not read this like a novel, but I have it electronically to look at as I am traveling, to find out information about coffee in whatever area I am traveling.It was written in the 1920's and is still relevant today.I have been re-reading this book for years, because of its content.I would recommend this book.
I read the abridged version and can see how this book is a strong influence on subsequent books on this topic. I’m sure the original version is a treasure trove of information and details which might not make an insightful read, but I also appreciate that contemporary books on coffee probably draw from and build on this work of passion.
Ukers has created what is perhaps the longest book about coffee ever. With excellent information on historical, anecdotal, cultural and more aspects, "All About Coffee" is nothing close to light reading and should only be recommend when one has time and purpose. 1922 maybe a little early for our Starbucks era but still it is a fascinating body of work.
This is a classic book from 1922 (2nd ed 1935). 817 pages in my hardcover. I love coffee, and I love nostalgia about coffee. This book satisfies both of those!At least one of the Kindle editions is from the older 1922 edition. Not good!
I'm still plodding through this book. It's interesting, but it's also very dry. I have to read it in short bursts because I get bored quickly when reading about the different variations of the 'coffea arabica' plant. Not the book to pick if you want a broad narrative on the history of coffee.
Reads like an undergrad essay. Wish it told more history and less opinion. Gives a brief overview of coffee however leaves out major corporations (Starbucks, Tullys, Dunkin, etc.).
Thought I would try it on my kindle because it was free. Just too long and too factual and out of date.
Collection of interesting trivia about coffee. It also gives insights into daily life early in the twentieth century.
