https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/456675.On_Loving_God
This one, as to loving God, I will deal with as He shall teach me; for it is sweetest, it can be handled most safely, and it will be most profitable.
A work of art and worth reading or listening to many times.Chapter 5 is a favorite: 'And now let us consider what profit we shall have from loving God....
It is spontaneous in its origin and impulse; and true love is its own satisfaction.
Thus, if it is for her beauty that (a man) loves his wife, he will cast longing eyes after a fairer woman.
This was a pleasurable read. The content is direct, true and you get a sense of the writers devotion. The references to the bible verses is nice if a person wants to add to their own reading, now or at a later time. I will reread this one.
Another Librivox recording, the reading was a bit fast and it was late at night driving that I listened to it. It'll probably take another listen or two plus maybe a reading for it to really sink in.
One of my favorites. God loved us first, we are in the debt of his love.Bernard walks us through four degrees of loving God: from self interested love of God for own sake to loving God for God's sake and loving ourselves only in God. Love it.
The reader is good and this book is fairly short and easy to follow: https://librivox.org/on-loving-god/Content-wise, it's a beautiful little read.
But St. Bernard doesn't just focus on the proper life, but delivers an accurate picture of the material life that must be the lot of any Earth-bound life: "It is natural for a man to desire what he reckons better than that which he has already, and be satisfied with nothing which lacks that special quality which he misses.
In his greediness, he counts all that he has clutched as nothing in comparison with what is beyond his grasp, and loses all pleasure in his actual possessions by longing after what he has not, yet covets.
is animal and carnal, and knows how only to love himself, yet starts loving God for his own benefit, because he learns from frequent experience that he can do everything that is good for him in God and what without God he can do nothing good."2) Second Degree - Man Loves God for his own benefitAccording to Bernard, this is the stage where one throws out foxhole-type prayers, when one is in need and you are requesting God to rescue you out of tribulation.
And thus we are now learning to love like God.4) Fourth Degree: Man loves himself for the sake of God.

“The flesh then is a good and faithful comrade for a good soul: since even when it is a burden it assists; when the help ceases, the burden ceases too; and when once more the assistance begins, there is no longer a burden.
The first state is toilsome, but fruitful; the second is idle, but not monotonous: the third is glorious.
Hear how the Bridegroom in Canticles bids us to this threefold progress: ‘Eat, O friends; drink, yea, drink abundantly, O beloved’ (Cant.
This devotional classic on the love of God should be read slowly and in small bites. I listened to an audiobook of it while doing other tasks. Bernard's work needs and deserves more attention than that.
Bernard makes compelling arguments for how and why God should be loved. The break down of his understanding into the four degrees made his concepts fairly simple to follow.
concise and precise
In Bernard of Clairvaux’s work, On Loving God, he outlines four degrees of love and relates them to the development of a relationship with God. The basest type of love is man’s love for himself for his own sake (192). In nature, without any other instruction, man will focus primarily on himself, because that is all that he knows. This focus is permissible up to a certain point, where man begins to focus on his own pleasure at the expense of others. This excess is countered by the commandment “l
This love of all of God’s creations leads to the next degree which is man loving himself for the sake of God (195).
This degree of love is all about the blending of the mortal realm with the divine; the more one loves in this manner, the closer one becomes to God (196).Throughout these degrees of love, Bernard feels that reason and natural justice will lead one, even an unbeliever, to believe in God, and love Him with all one’s heart (185).
However, Bernard does not feel that love ends there; once man has faith he sees that he owes his creator a reciprocal amount of love to the amount he has received.
Perhaps the book would have been better read in 5-10 minute increments, digested slowly, and meditated over.
It is spontaneous in its origin and impulse; and true love is its own satisfaction.”An interesting explanation of the value of self-mortification and temperance and of why we are commanded to love our neighbors-- “’Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.’ And this is right: for he who shares our nature should share our love, itself the fruit of nature.
This is the curb of temperance imposed on thee, O man, by the law of life and conscience, lest thou shouldest follow thine own lusts to destruction, or become enslaved by those passions which are the enemies of thy true welfare.
Far better divide thine enjoyments wit they neighbor than with these enemies.”
Fascinating. A warm treatment of the ways in which we love God and the progress from one to another. The commentary was helpful for setting the work in context. At some point I will go back and re-read the treatise.
True love does not demand a reward, but it deserves one.""...the perverted will struggles towards the ultimate good by devious ways, yearning after satisfaction, yet led astray by vanity and deceived by wickedness""Righteousness is the natural and essential food of the soul, which can no more be satisfied by earthly treasures than the hunger of the body can be satisfied by air.""As a drop of water poured into wine loses itself, and takes the color and savor of wine; or as a bar of iron, heated red-hot, becomes like fire itself, forgetting its own nature; or as the air, radiant with sun-beams, seems not so much to be illuminated as to be light itself; so in the saints all human affections melt away by some unspeakable transmutation into the will of God""Right dear in the sight of the Lord is the death of His. But if their death is precious, what must such a life as theirs be!"
I began reading it at http://www.ccel.org/ccel/bernard/lovi..., and finished reading it in "Bernard of Clairvaux: Selected Works")"The earth under the ancient curse brought forth thorns and thistles; but now the Church beholds it laughing with flowers and restored by the grace of a new benediction.
In the first creation He gave me myself; but in His new creation He gave me Himself, and by that gift restored to me the self that I had lost.
Bernard does not here reach the eloquence of some of his sermons on the Song of Songs, but this work makes evident the demands of love and makes winsome the pursuit of love. "I owe all for having been created, what can I add for being remade, and being remade in this way? It was less easy to remake me than to make me.... In his first work he gave me myself; in his second work he gave me himself; when he gave me himself, he gave me back myself. Given, and regiven, I owe myself twice over. What c
What can I give God in return for himself?" Probably the most remembered part of this work is his description of the four degrees of love: 1) Man loves himself for his own sake; 2) Man loves God for his own benefit; 3) Man loves God for God's sake; 4) Man loves himself for the sake of God. Bernard does not claim the final state for himself, but sees it as a deifying process as our human desires flow into the will of God. This short work starts a little slowly, so be patient, and be amazed at how deeply his imagination is filled with Scripture.
The only thing I knew about Bernard of Clairvaux prior to reading this book was that he was the main preacher of the second Crusade.
As a borderline Anabaptist, I am not a fan of the crusades: those bloody wars do not bring to mind the idea of "loving God".
Of course, the crusades are not mentioned in this book so they have really nothing to do with this review.
On Loving God is very short, but filled with moving and inspiring text.
My friends may think I am becoming Catholic as my list of Catholic mystics, monks and nuns whom I have read just in the last month is growing.
ancient but still accurate.
Bernard's 4 degrees of love put me in mind of maslow's hierarchy of needs ...
a series that is really a progression of growth starting with the center of the self and moving toward a universal and deep concern for the many culminating in love of the Creator for its own reason (vs.
b/c Creator is a gumball machine in the sky who gives me what I "need" and who is a daddy to protects me).
this writing draws out the higher order of love and its applications to our selves, to others, and to the Good Creator.
A classic Christian text, using numerous citations from the Bible (especially the poetic parts of the Old Testament) to outline the various reasons why people may love God. The saint then place these various motivations in an ascending order, from selfish to divine, presenting them as a path which anyone can start and that leads to perfection in love. The text is fairly short and stays well on topic.Thinking of love as a process of spiritual evolution should be fairly acceptable to the modern reader, although the frequent use of Bible quotes may freak out some non-Christian readers.
I found this short (I didn't read the Analytic Commentary that accompanied the work) treatise on love absolutely delightful and refreshing. It came across to me as a much softer perspective of our relationship with God that is often missing in other works focused more on right behavior. This helped put God's love and my own love for God into a greater context. Overall, I found it enjoyable and enlightening.
I didn't actually read the book in this translation, but in the Latin original, De Diligendo Deo. I recommend this to those who know Latin well, or who know it somewhat and want to learn more.The book On loving God is a beautiful and classic work, regardless. It is not so much a systematic treatise, as written from the saint's own lived experience.
The author quotes Scripture a lot. I can feel his love and devotion to God as I read his writing. I do not agree with all his views, but I don't have to. He wrote his heart out, and successfully helped me to love God more. This book is best read meditatively, allowing your mind to digest every sentence.
Bernard challenges a Christian to love God for God Himself. By that, Bernard means that a Christian should not love God for the benefit he will receive from God. Instead, a believer should love God because He wholly deserves it and because He gives the most pleasure to anyone (Ps 16:10).
Partly a stringing together of scriptures calling for Christians to love God and partly a disturbing look into the mind that preached both that love and the Crusades, for me this was more disturbing than anything else.
A short read, this book provides a concise meditation on what true christian charity, or love of God, ought to look like and aspire toward. For me, among other things, it clarified that we both love God for God himself as well as for reward given that God himself is that very great reward.
Concise and clearly writtenI read this short book quickly but found many statements that lived a me up and inspired me to live Good more fully for who he is and not just for the blessings he gives. Take your time and enjoy this well known classic.
This is a short and largely spiritual or perhaps apologetic work. Benard sets forth the reasons God is to be loved above all things, the consequences of loving created things above God, and the sanctification affected from loving God above all else.
Clairvaux's writings open something amazing inside of your soul. His four ways on loving God are exceptionally accurate and should be read by all Christians. There are some smashing quotations worth underlining on every page.
Quick read. Good outline of our progression from selfish love to simply loving God.
