https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69930.Small_World
Enough already.So, now that I've convinced you that I know exactly what you don't want to read, I will give you my word of honor that Small World isn't like that: what we have here is the exception that proves the rule!
Of course, Chaucer is one of the all-time greats at both strong, sexy women and amusing filth, so I'm not being very hard on Lodge when I say he isn't as good.Again following Chaucer, the other main theme is social satire.
Lodge satirizes the world of academic literary theory, and this is the part of the book that I enjoyed most.
This was a very good book in all its aspects - very well written, solid storyline, witty, gives the reader what the reader needs.
Mr Lodge writes more than once what a "romance" novel should be, and he delivers that.
I cannot wait to read the third one in the series.
However, even if there is an open end, the book draws a lot of conclusions and actually open end is not that bad anyway.
The reader is free to imagine his/her own end of the story.
Great book, i am really glad I discovered David Lodge and I highly recommend his books.
But still, it's made me think about this situation.Have you ever been in a plane, sitting in it, expecting to take off, when the pilot says 'Attention, attention, attennnnshhunnn.
You can save this entire jet of passengers from certain death by doing no more than simply hanging out in the Qantas lounge and feasting on free lunch until the next plane comes.
I mean, we are reading about the lives of literary critics, after all.We have here the very special point of view of someone who hasn't been to a conference, but who has written a book of literary analysis.
And these so called guardians and critics of literature are not bound merely to their books and epics and poems and poets; they are also travelers lovers, drinkers and for all that, a crazy lot too!Persse McGarrigle is a conference virgin when we embark on this story, but by the end of it, he is spread, laid, banged and turned into a conference slut, if we can call him one, considering his rigorous globetrotting to attend and evade the miscellaneous conferences in search of Ms. Angelica Pabst, the most beautiful girl he has ever met, trying to finish her doctoral dissertation on Romance – how lovely!
3.5 stars, rounded upThis novel, a loose sequel to the earlier 'Small World', shares many similarities - a comedy about the world of conferences and university academics.
It is funny, occasionally even hilarious, and as usual with David Lodge, well-written.It has a larger cast of characters, and a larger canvas - instead of focusing on the university campus, it sprawls across different conferences in many different parts of the world.
The storyline is more fluid, covering a larger cast of characters as they travel to these conferences, with coincidence, chance meetings and romantic pursuit driving the narrative.
There was Norton anthology of English Literature there (adding some depth to my knowledge of the medieval literature and genre of romance- I should read Faerie Queen now, I guess) and also the whole gamut of literary criticism (explained way better than the Bressler guy- no offence, dude.
(It's probably indecent to acknowledge that, in addition to academic stuff, it added a whole lot to my knowledge of male and female anatomy - or certain parts of anatomy, anyway.) "The world is a global campus," says Morris Zapp.
Witty, clever, amusing, well narrated. Some really great lines about this discourse on English professors on summer holiday: "We are all subjects in search of objects." Layered for a story line that broadly appeals with intriguing insight as to the real purpose of literary theory in bringing unknown writers to light. Laughed out loud at the story about the English prof who attended a seminar on the "Problems of the Colon" and who was an hour into the lecture before realizing he was attending the wrong medical venue. Very good but not great: light and easy to read.
They are either hardened bad boys, who are rakish and dangerous and just waiting for the right woman to love OR sweet kind men who are so nice and caring and provide that kind of neutered hero that is so popular in 'sweet' YA novels right now.The men that Lodge writes are like actual humans - they have doubts, they don't make good decisions, they fumble, the fall in love with the wrong person, they get the 'girl of their dreams' but end up not being able to have an erection with her, they argue, they fight with colleagues who threaten their jobs, they despair, they hope, they dream, they are petty and they gossip a lot.
The plot is barebones (academics globe-trot and vie for a sinecure endowed chair), the characters varied, the scope huge.This novel is a modern epic; a social satire; a wickedly funny skewering, with a decidedly accurate feel, of academic pretension and trumpery; an allegory (of the quest for the Holy Grail); a love story; and more – it’s even a sly wink at the reader, as the various academics explain their own narrative functions by giving their opinions on text in general.
A brilliant piece of work, and I was very sorry to come to the end after 385 pages.
Il croque les travers du monde universitaire avec une acuité qui n'a rien perdu de son actualité.
Les travers sont tellement bien rendus qu'on y retrouve bien d'autres professions.- Celle de raconter une véritable intrigue qui ne sert absolument pas de prétexte à ce qui pourrait ressembler au départ à une simple galerie de personnage.
- Celle d'être écrit avec un style plein de finesse et de légèreté qui rend la lecture agréable- Celle de transformer un "simple roman" en livre quasiment culte tant il a ce côté pageturner, ce côté construit et intelligent.Un coup de coeur
All satire can get cartoonish at times, but I'm disappointed by the xenophobia with which the book surrenders to the most superficial stereotyping in order to depict its non-anglophone characters--the German critic is a Nazi, the French critic a lizard-like homosexual, the Japanese translator a humorless, mechanistic stiff who sings karaoke.
English, Irish and American characters do not escape mockery, of course, but they tend to be depicted with more sympathy, their vices more charming than repugnant.
And the marriage between Philip and Hilary Swallow--the fragile, at times tediously mundane cohabitation that is the subject of some of the novel's least funny, most poignant scenes--somehow emerges as normative.
I love this book. Lodge manages to animate what would be, in lesser hands, cardboard stereotypes -- the humanist, the semiotician, the poststructuralist -- into vivid, hilarious, eminently *moving* characters. The novel, structured like a medieval romance, sees them all on a whirlwind world tour of academic conferences, tracing the rise and fall of their fortunes. Some of the best humor comes, I think, from sympathy and identification with others' flaws, and Lodge proves that proposal amply.
The characters are charming and .
However the plot is quite bland and I wouldn't read this book for the story itself.
It has a drab storyline, but with a few funny moments it was readable.
But I'd recommend this book to fans of English literature and Academia.
The discussions among the participants of the literary conferences in the novel can be hard to understand without previous knowledge of literary theory and academic use of English.
Nonetheless, I am highly impressed with Lodge's style of writing and can imagine reading his other novels.
I only hope that those plots are more enticing.
It was not always easy to identify the trama of various Chansons de geste and other romances, and I'm pretty sure I didn't recognize all of them, but who says I have to when I had such a good time just reading this novel? I didn't laugh so much reading a book in a long time. Erudition and accessibility, irony and humor, parody and subtle quoting, in a word, Lodge as we know him, Lodge in the best book of his famous trilogy (Changing Places, Nice Work, and of course Small World).
Δεν ξέρω αν εν έτει 2016 θεωρείται ξεπερασμένο το κείμενο και η σάτιρα του Lodge, αλλά πιστέψτε με δεν είναι. Δεν μπορώ να θυμηθώ *πραγματικά* αστείο μυθιστόρημα άλλου συγγραφέα που να έχω διαβάσει τα τελευταία χρόνια. Μη σου πω ever και το χοντρύνω.
Ugh I finished it and it was kind of funny in parts and had a lot of archetypal moments but it was ...
sexist.
Women only have sex in order to further a man's story, and they don't have sex because they want it but because they are turned on by a guy who is selfishly desperate for it and so they 'give in' to him [I KNOW] and then they are denigrated by the men if they do have sex or are sex workers...
the whole perspective of a very sexist, 70s guy was pretty awful.
Funny, sarcastic, complexed, simply brilliant. Mr. Lodge surprises his readers until the last page and that makes reading this book interesting. Conclusion: this world is really small.
A delicious academic romance based upon the quest for the Holy Grail. An interview with David Lodge about the book, here.
Voljela bih da se ovakva knjiga nikad nije završila.
I read this years ago - over 20 years ago and found it funny then.
But I found as I was reading this that I was getting really pissed off in how most of the woman were written.
Also adding to my being pissed off was the cavalier way in which middle aged men slept with their students or anyone other than their wives as if it was their right to do so or it was their wive's fault.
Pissed off!!
The other main character is Persse - a man-child who never grows up and by the end of the novel is just annoying.
Un livre drôle, brillant, intelligent... une petite merveille que je recommande vivement!
As such it is of course somewhat dated, but the biting academic satire as well as the debates on structuralism and literary theory are still interesting and amusing.For me, unfortunately, all of that was more or less overshadowed by the fact that as the "story" (more a string of not very complex character cameos, which I am not opposed to in principle, if it is done to a purpose) moves on, this novel has slowly but steadily solidified in my mind as one of the most chauvinistic books I have ever read: not only are female characters definitely backgrounded with respect to the male, every single one of them is at the first mention immediately assessed and described in terms of attractiveness (which one could, if one felt kindly, attribute to the male characters' viewpoint rather than the author, an artistic choice, but even then it's hard to argue the benefit for the reader).
Of course, the problem with such a proof is that if we could only know every stimulus that prodded a person from infancy on, we might easily discover that those stimuli do not explain the person's behavior now, much less in the future.
However, blindly following a particular scholar's dicta is a failing in all fields, not just linguistics.Despite the fertile ground for satire that academia provides, Lodge merely presents us with some boring people who are quite horny all the time, but apparently aren't very good in the sack.
As befitting a novel about literary criticism, there are references to everyone we know and love: Shakespeare (All's Well That Ends Well), Oscar Wilde (The Importance of Being Ernest--the twins are found in a Gladstone bag), and, naturally, the Grail Quest with all of its incumbent post-modernist/feminist permutations.
He mentions that he "didn't have the patience" to read a novel which featured identical twins of opposite sexes.
The novel was David Lodge's "Changing Places.")You will find this book gut-wrenchingly funny if you are in academia.
I'm a prejudice reader.
Nevertheless, it didn't stop me from enjoying the book.The epigraph is disturbingly familiar: a quotation by Nathaniel Hawthorn about fulfilling the standards required by anything that calls itself a Romance.
I've seen that quotation before in another book, also an "academic Romance".
But if in Possession, the narrative is straight forward and predictable (albeit with a lengthy delay), Small World thwarts the expectation by deliberately not satisfying it in a conscientious manner.
But I am a bias reader, and I've said that from the start.
Li-o depressa, realmente, se bem que já tinha tinha dado algum avanço no fim-de-semana.Gostei do livro, fez-me rir em diversos momentos.
Além disso, é muito bom ser passado num ambiente que me posso identificar com, embora a maior parte das situações não possa dizer o mesmo.No início custou-me um bocado a entrar na escrita da coisa, mas depois embrenhei-me bastante bem.Nem estava à espera daquela revelação que se refere à Lily e à Angelica: a provocadora e a tímida.
De facto, este livro fez-me pensar em como realmente este mundo é demasiado pequeno.
Muito giro!Review completa aqui: http://labirinto-livros.blogspot.com/...
My best friend' daughter gave her this book, which she passed along to me. The paperback's cover has the quotation, 'AN EXUBERANT MARVELOUSLY FUNNY NOVEL.' Uh, oh. When I see words like that I think, no, I don't think so. The plot was that literary people traveled from one conference to another, and did a fair amount of bedhopping.I couldn't really identify with any of them, and there wasn't enough detail about their settings to be really interesting. On the back of the cover it read "A BOOKER PRIZE NOMINEE." I wonder if it won.
Gleefully contrived, Lodge's follow-up to Changing Places spoofs the international conference circuit and the "small world" of academia. Zapp and Swallow, here, more fully realized than in Lodge's precious novel, cavort with a vast assortment of characters as they, along with many others, compete for the (fictional) UNESCO chair of English Literature and Criticism. Modeled after a traditional Romance (a la the Grail stories), the novel is rife with allusions and references to many other works and genres of literature that will contribute to the comedy for the well-read reader. Fun. 3.5 stars.

Undoubtedly, one of my best reads of the year so far. With around 20 characters and set in the world of academia, David Lodge spins a tale of sheer wit and humour. This satire on the intellectual 'giants' of English literature who jet set across the world for conferences and seminars will definitely add to one's cynicism and prejudices. With an array of emotions explored ranging from silly insecurities, pettiness and jealousy to lust, shame and vanity, this was one wonderful read!
