https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815721.Strange_Fruit
A book like this is just as relevant now as it was seventy-four years ago when it was a bestseller.There are a number of characters in this short novel, and the reader is privy to the most intimate and complex thoughts of many of them – black and white, man and woman.
Not only does he treat those blacks needing medical attention, he is also the solid rock that most of the black citizens lean on for support, particularly the Anderson family – Nonnie and sister Bess and brother Ed. When grieving over a tragic event in the community, Sam says to his white friend, Tom Harris: "Respectable white folks don’t like to get mixed up in things like this.
Black and white, man and woman, parent and child; by the last page we know them all, we understand what motivates them, and it makes us sick.The bare facts are these.
As one character said, whites are as much prisoners of the whole system of Jim Crow as the Negroes, and if they spent the same amount of time and energy getting along as in keeping them in their place, just think what a great place the South could be.The dialect was perfect, the plot was engrossing and suspenseful, the characters were real people with real problems, and we knew what made them tick.
Ironically, it was a brave book to write and to publish in 1944, and was in fact banned in some places, enabling it to become a best seller.
It's not shirking responsibility for the sexual exploitation of black women by white men, or the way the white-dominated economy causes black families to endure almost intolerable levels of pressure to abandon their own in order to care for and serve ours.
In many ways, the title of the book and Billie Holiday's rendition of the haunting, terrifying song, is linked to the racist white world *more* than the black world that its victims come from.
Smith was really the right person to write a book that attacks racism's root cause: White, and white male, privilege.
But Lillian Smith's very good novel shouldn't be allowed to languish because it's of its time.I recommend hunting a copy up.
This one took me some time to get through, not because it wasn't well written but because the subject matter was heavy. It left me feeling drained after each reading. Amazed that Smith wrote this in 1944 with such accuracy. A novelist and activist for civil rights way before her time. Well done, Lillian Smith. I can't imagine the gut wrenching she experienced writing this novel. I know as a reader I experienced this feeling from beginning to end. Friends, mark this one for posterity.
This is perhaps an important book (to satisfy curiosity), but it is also a tragic and depressing story.
The style is ultra-realism and could be expressing many truths were it not for the absolute lack of humor or lighter moments.
I felt the characters remained a little two dimensional throughout.---In my version of reality, any race or group of people fighting constant adversity would naturally use even just tiny amounts of humor as a buffer or as a symbol of rebellion.
All as I say, important books for the curious.
I have the 1944 Edition. This is a book everyone should read.
When Tracy the son of the prominent white Doctor in Georgia falls for Nonnie, the beautiful and educated daughter of the most " upright" black family in town in 1920 and she becomes pregnant disastrous and heartbreaking events follow in the community.
It was brave of Lillian Smith to tackle the subject of racial conflict when this book was written in 1944 and titled after a song by Billie Holiday which had lyrics about a lynching.
It's a very tough emotional read as incendiary and relevant today as it was then and which I actually skipped the first time around a few years back, but read this time for On the Southern Literary Trail Bookclub 09/2018 4 stars
This is not "Roots".
Interracial love in Georgia immediately after World War I was not a topic many writers chose to write about in 1944.
A young white veteran returns from the war and "takes up" with a light-skinned African American woman.
Things get really complicated when she becomes pregnant.
His parents want him to "grow up", join the church and marry the white girl they have picked out for him.
He agrees and offers his black paramour money for an abortion or as a dowry to marry a black man.
She refuses and things get worse, resulting in a murder.
Like Harper Lee, Lillian Smith was a white southern woman who grew up observing the atrocities of the Jim Crow south.
The Maxwell, Georgia of Strange Fruit doesn't have a Finch family among its white population.
At the center of this story are the Andersons, an educated black family, who for all of their college degrees, work the only jobs they can find in Maxwell - as servants.
His eyes have been opened in Washington to the injustice he and his family were dealt in Maxwell, and he's desperately trying to get Bess and Nonnie out.
You'll never look at To Kill A Mockingbird the same again.
This book, written in the 40's,is a true gauge of how the majority of white southerners thought lynching,servitude, humiliation of freed african-americans was what they had "their God's" right to act upon.
Lillian Smith's every word of dialect is so perfect that I can't imagine why I ever thought Faulkner had it right.This novel of great importance to any student of history has been on my mind day and night since I reread it.Why did it take 40 some years until Freedom Summer came and the Civil Rights issues were brought to the forefront.Ms. Smith's novel of lyrical beauty and violent forces, the white man's savage rape of black women and the traveling revival tents, that were in every small southern town, reinforced the white man's right to entitlement.
A beautifully written study of racism in all it's various permutations. Though this story is set in a small town in the post-WWI south, it could have happened almost anywhere in America. And though this book was published in the 1940's, the language is so richly evocative and the characters are so deftly drawn that it continues to be a worthwhile read today. Everyone in our book club found Strange Fruit a compelling read (though copies were so hard to come by that we eventually had to share the two copies we could find). This is definitely a recommended book.
I probably shouldn't have rated this book because I only read a little pass halfway of this book. I just couldn't get into the language. It was too confusing. I really loved the premise of this story so I was really hoping I'd love it. Many people loved this book so hopefully your experience with this novel will be better than mine was.
We lynch the Negro's soul every day of our lives." "Strange Fruit" at page 239.A tent revival in the fictitious town of Maxwell, Georgia serves as the backdrop for this novel of racial tension and transition in which a white man is shot and an African-American man hung and burned in retaliation.
The novel ends with a snapshot of Nonnie, her sister Bess and their friend Dessie preparing for and returning to their work as servants to the white people the day after Henry's murder.This novel has all of the themes and motifs found in excellent Southern literature during the early to mid-20th Century; including terrible racial discrimination, hatred, ignorance, religion/God, family relations, and poverty in a small town setting.
Detailed, exacting, historic (mid twentieth century), anger producing, heart wrenching, relevant today, well written, depressing. I could go on. I was blessed that the library had an original, fragile hardcover first printing of this book. It made the reading experience even more visceral. Stepping back in time. My family is from rural, small town Tennessee. A painful tale of the resigned acceptance of open racism, the huge chasm between the classes and the races. For me a slow, one bite at a time read . . . but worth the effort.
This book was banned in Boston in 1944 and was to be kept from the soldiers fighting the war.
Eleanor Roosevelt read it and told Franklin to get it off the banned list and to the troops!!
The story is set in Georgia after WWI and tells the tale of an interactial relationship and lynching.
Lillian Smith enraged readers with her accurate descriptions of racial attitudes in the 1920's in Georgia.
Everyone suffers in the story and the reader feels compassion for all, even the lynchers.
The racial part given our news stories is still with us and that is a tragedy.
The beginning of the book (the first 200 chapters)was confusing to me so it was hard to figure out what was going on but when it got towards the end of the novel I found out what the whole story was about and what the situation/ conflict that each characer faced.
Some of the things that I learned about the themes of racisim and prejudice from the novel was that people have a huge influence on others especially people that you know well like your family because the main character who is black is having a relationship with a white man in the story.

Read this book with the mindset that it was written in 1944 and covered a then-taboo interracial relationship.
It must have been an eye-opening look at southern attitudes of that period.
Many books, songs, movies, and TV shows have covered these issues since this book was published, but it must have been startling in 1944.
It was banned and not only in the South.
As a novel, it holds up well.
The story is still compelling and sad.
This would make a great book club read for those interested in real discussion.
Strange Fruit is a novel that portrays an interracial relationship in the south. It focuses on the dehumanization of African Americans in the south by the themes of segregation, hair, and religion. Strange fruit is the reoccuring metaphor in the novel.Strange fruit refers to the cruel practice of lynching in the novel. The use of the southern dialect in the novel was used as an illustration of the African American culture. Dialect when used correctly emphasizes the place or setting of a story and it makes it more realistic.
This well-written novel could be called an anatomy of a Jim Crow South lynching, as various people and their actions propel the inevitable end. Somber, well-constructed, and frightening, this is the kind of honest novel I wish we read in high school rather than the same old shit. This, in conjunction with something like To Kill A Mocking Bird would be awesome. As good as Mockingbird is, though, it is a slightly sanitized vision and of course the hero is a white man standing up for justice.
This little known book was a find off of my uncle's old library. Highly engaging and extremely thought provoking, this story will have you questioning race relations and an inherent cruelty of humanity.
Not at all what I was expecting. This was truly a "forbidden LOVE" story, but at the same time it was so much more. The story is dark, but beautifully written.
Reading it bowled me over given when it was written, as well as the mastery of time and place, of dialect and detail, of still timely and essential truths about racial divides, poverty, manipulation, family ties and pressures, and a host of other subjects.Smith nails it on so many levels.
She weaves differing points of view, conflicts, long held attitudes about work, family, religion, poverty,freedom, human rights, wealth, black migration north, interracial love and domination into an amazing quilt of stories and ideas.No wonder it was banned.
Believes white man was created by God to rule the world.
Not only is the story viscerally painful, but the writing is difficult to follow.You begin the book almost as if you've missed a chapter or two - but then, you're walking into a well-established small town, where everyone knows each other.
Might be helpful (although occasionally confusing) to hear the thoughts of some of the supporting characters who live in that small town in late 1940/early 1950 Georgia And there's some narrative when required to move the story along.
That doesn't mean the language, and the feelings described, didn't exist.
Knowing they did could help ensure they won't happen again.
From the most popular book list each year -- 1944.It's surprising to me this was the most popular book for 1944 considering how brutally honest (this descriptive phrase has lost it's impact with overuse ...
I'm using brutal here in its full meaning) race relations of the American South are depicted.
But it sickens me more that there are still people today who insist on living in their world of hate and bigotry.
They are missing so much of what it means to be human.
20 years later in 1964 things were not much better.
things...the little things that work through the skin...to your heart that turn decent men, sober decent human beings, into crazy animals you know.' Sam looked up again at Tom Harris, 'you can kill a man so easy...slit a piece of skin at his wrist, or the side of his neck, give him one tap at the back of the head...You can kill his soul easy as that.'"There are quotable passages on almost every other page.
I have read “The Warmth of Other Suns” with its interviews with black southerners who moved north during the Great Migration and the recent book by Paul Thereaux “Deep South”.
Anyone who thinks this book describes the position of whites and blacks from some distant time, should read them.
I can only imagine what the author’s neighbors must have been wondering about the characters in the book and their resemblance to members of her community.
The book tells the story from the point of view of the black characters as well as the white and is unsparing in depicting a way of life that is not too far behind us.
I first started reading this book a few years ago but, due to not being in the proper mindset, put down the book figuring that I would return to it later.
Many other reviews of the book say that it is difficult to read and this is true.
Despite it being difficult I pushed through and embraced feeling uncomfortable and upset at what happens in Maxwell, Georgia.
You can’t ignore what kind of place the U.S. was and continues to be today.
I am well aware of the South’s use of Jim Crow laws and fear to keep African Americans in their place.
Nothing that happened was a surprise to me.
Following my reading of Strange Fruit, it became amazingly clear to me that I have missed some very good literature along the way.
This book was part of the agenda for a program of women writers between the wars (WWI and II) conducted at the West Asheville Public Library in NC.
Very well-written and captivating, the book explores race relations when Jim Crow was alive and well in the South.
Though it was written in 1944, the story takes place in the 1920.
Dealing with inter-racial marriage and gender equality, it spares little in the presentation of these very controversial topics.
I really can't think of anything negative to say about this book other than "why did I not know about this book until now?" Really powerful and eye-opening, even for a Southern boy like me. One should not confuse the title of the book as meaning the same thing as the title of the Billy Holiday song, which was about "black bodies swinging in the Southern breeze." In this book, the strange fruit is the attitudes that ingrained racism inculcates in both Southern blacks and whites.
