https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45794.Clockers
But can he get the suspect's brother, a crack dealer named Strike, to cooperate?This is the fourteenth book in my Kindle Unlimited Experiment.
This feels like the novelization of four Wire episodes in the best way possible.Clockers is a crime book but it's also a window into the lives of cops and the crack dealers they're trying to catch.
Rocco sees an actor as his way out of the cop's life and Strike just wants to make enough money to get out.The mystery is actually secondary.
You seriously telling me an old Jewish guy can write thousands a pages a authentic black dialogue not to mention taking the reader on a tour of the whole inner city experience, the crack trade, the slingers, their apartments, their families, their mothers, how you step on an ounce, I mean exactly how, what these gangbangers wear, what they spend their dough on, who they wake up with, colour of their damn mother's underpants, a whole tour of black spaces – fast food joints, churches, jail visiting rooms, - and people – stone killers, outsize wheelerdealers, oily preachers, angsty thin wore down mothers, this white Jewish guy does all that?
Price had a lot of great insights in this work that could only have been the result of going out and being a witness to the world he was describing.
As the great novelist once said, "You can't make this shit up."I’m sure this novel is completely ignored in college classrooms because professors want kids to read books by writers who write about writing (Updike, Roth, Irving, Joyce Carol Oates, and lot of other literati who need to get outside and get some fresh air once in a while).
The problem is that a lot of novelists don't know anything and aren't willing to go out and learn something new.
Amazing!!!Clockers tracks the parallel stories of two men on different sides of the drug game (one a young, mid-level, crack dealer, the other a homicide cop), revolving around a murder in Price's fictional New Jersey city of Dempsey.
From the dealer Strike (with his paranoia, orderliness, and his frustration with both his lower-level dealers and his perforated ulcer), to Detective Rocco (with his jaded outlook on is job, love for his wife and daughter, and his embarrassing obsession with pleasing a famous actor), the characters are truly vivid and feel totally genuine!
Price is so wonderful at creating characters that feel really alive.But there's also so much more here.
Like Dostoevsky meets Tupac and it's pretty awesome for it.
An amazingly complex and l-o-n-g tale of half-flawed people negotiating the pretty bleak world of the north Jersey projects.
Every time I thought one of the characters was stooping to stereotype, Price introduced another layer of ambiguity that made much of said characterization ring true.
Best of all, the story is so long that no detail is extraneous; the author had time to make everything more or less add up to something.
If you can stomach the bleakness of the landscape, this is well worth the effort.
I recall seeing this movie back in the day, with Spike Lee as a character, and that it struck me as more deeply meaningful and complex than most movies, but I don’t remember much else (thankfully, so my mind was not contaminated as I read the book).
The book was down and dirty, in the streets, and rich with detail (the complex management required to be a middle man dope peddler is a mean feat beyond the capabilities of most white collar safe jobs, and 1000% more perilous).I’ll be reading more Richard Price.
Clockers - the term refers to the low-level, 24-hour drug slingers staked outside the projects - was written in 1992, and takes place before then.
The people, the places, the dangerous and unending cat-and-mouse between cops, detectives, drug lords and clockers.
The story is told in chapters that switch between a detective's point of view (Rocco) and a clocker's point of view (Strike).
Strike is oblivious to this, because he's got to deal with the terrifying and enigmatic Rodney, a drug kingpin who also happens to run a convenience store and who preaches paternally to his young clockers about saving for the future: buy real estate, not sneakers.
Strike is an inner city 🌃 drug dealer who lives in the projects and sits at the benches slinging “bottles” (crack vials), hiding his cash in safe houses, and thinking someday he’ll have the balls to walk out of the life still breathing.
His mother told him never to come back and his brother Victor works the straight life with two jobs and a dream of getting out of the projects and a wife and two kids.
The other point of view is homicide detective Rocco, who is not completely jaded even after working these mean streets.

My opinion is as unbiased as it gets.The book is pretty interesting and really gripping.
It's giving a fair view of both sides of the world Strike and Rocco live in.
The only real difference I saw between this and other urban fiction is the view from opposing sides.
I'm a fan of a large read but not one that is like watching paint dry.
This book definitely will not be in my favorites list but I would like to read more by this author.
He has other books out there that are fan-favorites so I'm not giving up on Price.
I don't know if this is how things really are/were, just like I really don't know if The Wire was really true to life, both feel pretty real to me, and they seem more realistic than say getting all my street experiences from an NWA record (not that I'm going to say deny NWA any kind of street credibility, but there is a certain romanticism to it, a gritty romanticism but there is still something that glorifies the world and doesn't necessarily paint a full picture, but maybe I'm wrong, I did spend much of my formative years in a very small city where cops had nothing better to do than fuck with freaky looking kids as if they were even a minor threat to anything by hanging out bored in an empty lot with a few benches and some stairs on the main street of town.
The narcotics cops are called “The Fury” by the clockers from the car they drive, Plymouth Fury.Then the main characters come in focus: Strike who manages the clokers on the benches and Rocco the homicide cop.
By the end of the book we understand clearly the dealer’s point of view.
Often they don’t show any respects for the clokers but some of the policemen are truly good people who still believe that what they do has value, that they are helping those kids.
Andre’s, a cop, tries ineffectively to save some kids in whom he has faith.
God, I love this book. Everything about it is perfect--you love everyone but no one is flawless. This is one of the best books I've ever read. I think the subject matter may lead a lot of people to think it's not their cup of tea (drugs and violence), but it's really good and esp fun if you know the Jersey City area.
This is Richard Price's gritty masterpiece, an entrancing murder mystery featuring glimpses into the emotionally charged lives of a declining Rocco Klein a soon to retire hardcore New Jersey homicide detective, and Strike Dunham a naive 19 year old black boy from the projects who as a mid level street-corner cocaine dealer finds himself involved in matters way over his head.This is not my usual reading choice given the street language and violence but by 1/4 way through, I found myself simply enthralled in these pages.
Read as EP Signed Modern Classic Selection 10/18 5 stars
One of the great novels of the late 20th century. Comparisons to Steinbeck, Dostoevsky, and Dickens are not superfluous. Is there characters you would rather jump of cliffs with than Strike and Rocco? Is there a character more corrupt, evil and utterly human than Rodney Little? Dismal human tragedy brought to high art that manages to give us an ability to discuss it with out cheapening the tragedy and making it palatable. The Wire is the real adaptation of this, skip the movie.
So apparently Clockers, published in the early 90s, is a spiritual ancestor of The Wire.
Reading Clockers is similar to watching that series; the reader switches from the perspective of the police to the dealers and back again.
Clockers also, like The Wire, carries a Shakespearean dread to the (long) novel’s end.
So if you like The Wire, you’ll like Clockers.
If you like Dennis Lehane, you’ll like Richard Price.
That’s not to say Price is an imitator; he’s got his own thing, and based on Clockers, he’s very good at his thing.
I read this book ages ago and I still remember the rawness, grittiness and despair.
This is a book populated by people trapped in a life of despair, violence and few options -- yet who still find hidden pockets of dignity and decency.
In my mind, it was his way of treating the ulcers created by his way of life.
A masterful novel that examines the American inner city during the heyday of the crack epidemic, Clockers is a riveting read and one not easily forgotten.
Not for the faint of heart or those easily turned off by a way of life different from their own.
Price is a careful thinker and writer. He is really an ethnologist of the urban. The show the Wire is based on this book. Bonfire of the Vanities is not half the book that Clockers is -- style be damned.There is a chapter on heroin addicts who live in a condemned building and who take out and sell the copper tubing in order to get their fix. This chapter is as poetic, as generous, as painful as anything I have read. It would make Charles Dickens envious.
Writing gritty, detailed prose that shows he clearly performed on-the-ground research in crafting his story, Price introduces us, in alternating chapters, to Strike, a young black "middle-management" crack dealer in a depressed New Jersey town just outside of New York City, and to Rocco, the white homicide cop trying to nail Strike on a murder rap while dealing with his own mid-life crisis.
Because of the time that has passed since the era in which Price is writing about, and because of shows like "The Wire" that have terrifically captured similar themes in even greater depth and detail, Clockers has lost some of the power and resonance it surely had when released.
Richard Price captured the greed and commingled desperation/hopelessness of characters whose desire to leave their doomed surroundings is only surpassed by their fear of reprisal if they do.
The book seems perfectly tailored for a TV or movie adaptation given it's fast-paced and gripping plot-line, which had me staying up well past my bedtime to continue reading.
Be warned though, the movie doesn't do the book justice in my opinion.
This book really delves deeply into the character's motivation for their behavior and inner conflicts with their conscious, often to their own demise.
"Dempsey burnin'."As in The Wire, in Clockers Richard Price explores the front line in the War on Drugs through two infantrymen on opposite sides of the conflict.
There's Rocco Klein, homicide investigator, and Strike, lieutenant on the rise in the Dempsey projects.
The late-night murder of a fast-food restaurant manager forces Rocco and Strike's paths to collide.
Clockers makes it clear that this is an unwinnable, endless war.
If one man gets out of the game, another will step in his place.If you like The Wire read Clockers; if you like Price at all, watch The Wire.
"Clockers" proved to be everything "The Wire" was promised to be, gritty, realistic, engaging, but "Clockers" was actually able to deliver on the promise.
There are some tired cliche's like the weary detective counting the days to retirement, but Price is able to transcend these limitations.
Price's true strength lies in his ability to present the story realistically from all sides.
In Price's world nothing is black and white there are so many different shades and sides to everything.
You know Price has really succeeded when you realize that you've turned 600 pages not because you were hoping to find out who the murder was, but because you're engaged with the characters he has created.
"The Wire - in convenient book form" has been my pithy description of Clockers.
To expand upon that, it's a character study that does nothing to dispel the popular image of the homicide detective (a world-weary skeptic, partly corrupt, slightly alcoholic, alternately caring too much and too little), but does much to explain how he got that way.
Some of the symbolism is overwrought and the story is easily 75 pages too long.
A strong addition to the canon and recommended read for everyone from fans of The Wire to would-be writers whose own study of grittiness and realness is also overwrought.
You know from the very first sentence that you're in the hands of a master. If you loved the great TV series "The Wire," you'll love this book. (Price also wrote several episodes of "The Wire").
Just about every day, Strike runs his crew of dealers, deals with near daily searches and harassment by the housing police, and tries to unravel the lies and double-crossing of his mentor and drug boss, Rodney.
Rocco is also the name of my cat so whenever I read the name “Rocco,” I thought “meow.” I didn’t actually like either character, or any of the characters in the book, but they are interesting and I sympathize with them, particularly Strike.
Bloated and lacking a meaningful message. Some sub-plots went nowhere. A lot of the characters were cliche, even for the time. Worse still, very few of the characters were dynamic. On the plus side, I was never bored while reading this book, and I think Price has a solid ear for language and dialogue. I suppose another positive could be found if you enjoy reading interrogation scenes; this book has about twenty. 2.75 stars I guess. I’m glad it’s over.
I should explain...Clockers is written from the point of view of 2 main characters - Strike, a drug-dealing teenager (more like an overseer of other drug dealers...
Early in the book, another middle manager is killed, and neither character really knows what happened.
So the book is, at its heart, a mystery.Price does an excellent job of setting the scene and really painting a clear picture of the lives led by both characters.
Maybe I just like a happy ending and this book doesn't really deliver one - I'm not sure it could, given the subject matter.
On one hand you have Rocco Klein, a veteran homicide detective, and on the other hand, you have Strike Dunham, a crack dealer, with his own crew as well as a bleeding ulcer.
He always told his crew, "Don't let the girls wrap you around their little fingers."Rocco is only six months from retirement as a homicide detective.
A murder suddenly throws Strike and Rocco into a path may collide head-on.
It has more twists and turns than a roller coaster.Jeannie Walker Award Winning Author of "Fighting the Devil" - A True Story of Consuming Passion, Deadly Poison, and Murder
In an effort to pretend that The Wire isn't completely over, I decided to start reading the novels of the various writers who have contributed to that extraordinary show, starting with Richard Price.
This novel is just terrific -- gritty, realistic, gripping, humorous.
Although the voice slightly resembles Tom Wolfe's, Price is intellectually honest and generous in the way he fleshes out his characters and their worlds.
And as on The Wire, sometimes it's hard to tell who the good guys and the bad guys are.
You can't tell just by looking for who's wearing the white hats and the black hats.
Richard Price just came out with "Lush Life" which takes place in NYC, and when I read that he was a writer for "The Wire" TV series and because I love a certain kind of police procedural I tried "LL" and was moderately pleased - so a friend said go back to this old book (his first) and though it was alot like the characters in "The Wire" i found it had all the ingredients I enjoy and make me think: gritty realism, intelligently and realistically imagined dialog, realistic characters, and real-life circumstances and convolutions.
