https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10805.All_the_Little_Live_Things
Joe’s back goes up when young Pitt’s values and attitude clash with his own, but Ruth wants to give him a chance, so Joe reluctantly agrees.A young couple named Marian and John move in to the next-door cabin with their 6 year old daughter, Debby.
For me, it is Wallace Stegner’s ability to mold and shape words, phrases, sentences, and paragraphs like a master sculptor that breathes life and energy and emotion into it.I enjoyed experiencing the nuances and literary references that spiced these pages, but it was the story itself and how brilliantly it was written that made me feel everything so deeply.
The book is about a couple of months in the life of a retired literary agent and his wife.
The spot of land where the couple has retired is gorgeous; Stegner draws it in all its beauty.
And Joe, the retired literary agent, it is he that is telling us the story, wait till you meet him.
The book is a mirror of those times.I listened to the audiobook narrated by Edward Hermann.
With Hermann’s reading you cannot help but hear the humor, and it is essential to the first half of the book.
I have given both the book itself and Edward Hermann’s audiobook narration five stars.
Whether it is a long lyrical description of nature, an angry outburst or a witty one-liner as Joe ruminates on life, love and death, Stegner’s prose is brilliant.I was also struck by the many contrasts in the novel:#Joe represents the Establishment; Jim represents anti-establishment.#Joe and Ruth live in a beautiful spot, but there are various elements of ugliness around them with regard to neighbours.#Their garden is full of singing birds, but then one hears the sound of a shotgun and dead pigeons come fluttering to the ground to the cacophonic sound of barking dogs.#The garden has beautiful flowers, but there are wasps and tarantulas about.#Joe is plagued by gophers destroying his garden, and as he goes after a gopher he kills a King snake in the process, which very visibly has the gopher in its stomach and Joe realises that he has actually killed an ally.
This, I think, is why some people have a hard time getting through his books.
With some authors this drives me crazy, but with Stegner I somehow have the patience to stay with the writing and savor it.
He handled difficult themes in such a soft way, with the perfect combination of intellect and heart.All the Little Live Things and The Spectator Bird are companion novels about Joe Allston, a retired literary agent who has moved to California with his wife Ruth.
If you need to be strictly chronological, then read All the Little Live Things first.
While I have loved all of Stegner's novels I've read so far (Angle of Repose, Crossing to Safety, Spectator Bird), this one seems a little bit dated.
In this companion to Spectator Bird, almost 70 Joe Allston rants and raves about the hippie barbarians doing their thing on a bit of his property in 1967 Los Altos Hills/Woodside.
I kind of wish I had read this in 1967 when it was published, and I was still at Stanford, and Stegner was still in the nearby hills.
It is not a book to read when one is feeling wretched and vulnerable.Written in 1967, it preceded The Spectator Bird (1976), winner of the 1977 National Book Award, which continued the story of Joe and Ruth Allston who lost their son, Curtis, to a surfing accident.
Joe admitted, "Burrowing among sunny flowers, I never lost the sense of the presence of evil." One is left with a bleak apprehension of man’s inability to obliterate the "component of darkness" from "the force of life." “All The Little Live Things” is not for everyone.
One of my favorite books of all time is Stegner's CROSSING TO SAFETY--it was a very profound story of the transformational potential of friendship.
This book also explored that theme, but from such a painful perspective that I suffered as I read.Stegner's writing is beautiful, but the anger and social prejudice expressed in this novel did not appeal to me.
And, frankly, that venom spoiled the book for me.The warmth and love expressed for another character--perceived as pure and generous---was juxtaposed too strongly against the mean-spirited attitude the narrator adapted to other characters.Perhaps, this book was just too much a period piece that didn't wear well as society adapts and evolves.
There was not much that I found entertaining, but if I measure the story by it’s impact on me, by it’s provocative nature and wide open doorway to self-reflection, then it was a fabulous piece of writing.My feelings about the book were hard won.
I lived through this tumultuous time and found it easy to enter into the mindset of the principal antagonist, twenty-three year old Jim Peck, whose running conflict with Joe Allston forms much of the heart of the story.
Beautiful and devastating.
Love is a carrier of death - the only thing, in fact, that makes death significant.” Or simply, “I will be richer all my life for this sorrow.” Those three quotes walk with me every day, and in this rereading, paralleled a situation with another patient (the last time it was an unrestrained child with a traumatic brain injury) that we have been working hard to keep alive, this time, a very close parallel since she is a mother of a young child and will die or have a serious stroke if she does not continue a simple but time consuming regimen of blood thinners.
Much of the first half of the book is typical story setup: introduction of characters, setting the scene, and the like, which is fine, although it's dragged out here with the focus on squatter Jim Peck (technically, he has Joe's grudging permission to stay on the property).
Second half of the story contains flashbacks to Joe's past, that help explain his strong feelings, as well as another storyline about a neighbor, until the Final Conflict, where all goes horribly wrong.
Edward Hermann does a knockout job with the narration, as though the book were written back then with him specifically in mind for the job.
Probably not by coincidence, the author somewhat successfully creates in the reader what Allston experienced himself – the anticipation of pain and the experience of it as even more horrible than what could have been expected.
The reader knows the book is going to end tragically, and it does, in fact more tragically I think than expected.
The final sentence reads “I shall be richer all my life for this sorrow.” The thing is, I don’t as the reader, share his opinion.
I don’t feel much richer having read the book – just slightly weary in the resistance of dewy-eyed pathos.
If I complained that my last read lacked character development ("Foundation"), this book is the antidote.
It is nearly ALL character development - peering inside the head of curmudgeonly old Joe Allston.
He's not always likeable, but he's always entertaining in his crotchety, clever honesty.It's a beautifully written, vividly descriptive tale - so much so that I can smell and taste and feel that summer in California in the 60s.
these people seem very real and even if I might not agree with some of the decisions the characters made, I understand where they came from.
I KNOW these people now.
This one was hard to read because Stegner lets you know, in the first few pages, that it will be sad, and it's heavy on introspection. The narrator/main character is lovable and infuriating, funny but unwilling to bend or change. He figures things out the hard way. I wept through the final chapters.
Stegner writes about people and everyday life so quietly stunningly that the reader is unaware of getting enmeshed in the story.
Joe Allston and his wife, Ruth, retired to a small rural town in California after the death of their only child, a son -- an unruly young man who defies his educated parents in every way.
A younger couple with a small daughter and a baby on the way move in across from Allstons and the two families become close friends.
Read the book to learn all the events that happen to this enclave of diverse people.
However, this is also a powerful book about human connection, sacrifice, self absorption, and significant loss as it explores the meaning of friendships and their ability to affect our lives.
Stegner is a realist and does an amazing job of making human beings authentic creatures; even his narrator Joe Allston allows us a look into his own biases.
Stegner captures nature and the landscape as an intimate in his writings.
I found reading this book on a Kindle very advantageous since I was able to look up the numerous symbolic references that helped to add layers of meaning to what I was reading.
His books always give me a lot to think about, and this one was no different.The book tries to grapple with the horrible, random and unfair things that can happen in a life that also contains intense beauty and joy.
He (and his characters) consider the choice we all have to retreat and hide because of the horrible things that can and do happen, or to live unrestrained in our love for each other and for life.
I do think that Stegner has some pet philosophical arguments/beliefs that probably gave birth to the story.
What really strikes me is the authenticity of his relationship with his wife- sometimes he feels distant, sometimes close, but almost always she evokes a response or feeling in him with her commentary and observations.
For me, it captures the wonderfully weird experience of being connected to another human being in one of the closest relationships possible, while still being wholly other, and having still upon that relationships which are special and unique in their own right within a host of surrounding players.
So, so good.
Read my review here8/2/2017 re-read - How funny, it looks like I was reading this book at almost the exact same time of year two years ago.
If you asked me to name my very favorite book, I would quickly respond All the Little Live Things.
There's just so much to this novel - themes of what it means to live, vulnerability, relationships, freedom, grief, death, aging.
The story is so rich, in terms of theme, imagery, the quality of the prose.
I hate to gush too much because I don't want to oversell it, but for me, this book has a depth that I want to keep plumbing.
Listening to Edward Herrmann read Stegner aloud has got to be one of the most delightful things in literature.
This story follows Joe and his wife Ruth for about 6 months; they are retired and making a new life in rural Northern California and trying to fit in (or not) with various neighbor-characters.
Driving an exciting, twisting plot line is not Stegner's style, but he is a master at delving into humanity and all our facets and bringing the good and the ugly, the beautific and the selfish, up to the surface.
This is beautifully written, and Herrmann voicing Joe is perfection.
This was such a tender, thoughtful book, about a late-middle aged suburban couple retiring from the world in into the Bay Area countryside, and encountering a trespassing hippie couple who troubles their retreat. Beautifully written, honest and without melodrama, considering the issues of the sixties as only a novel can. I found I preferred this contemporary West to his historical works--belongs on the shelf with Updike and Bellow as well as Kesey.
Powerful, powerful book. A book that, when you finish, you can do nothing but sit back and contemplate what matters in life. No, that's not quite right. You contemplate why everything matters in life. The good and the bad, the controllable and uncontrollable, the mundane and the life ending. Every little thing, no matter how insignificant or utterly destructive, must happen the way it happens. To turn your head away would be to ignore life itself.
Stegner writes well, but the subject matter - a California retiree clashing with the hippie he allows to squat on his property, hippie culture and free love, and the retiree and his wife's friendship with a young couple affected by cancer, did not appeal to me. I felt trapped in the 60s and it was not pleasant.
I read this some years ago, but just realized that I had never added it to my shelf.
****.Although not tagged as a sequel, this work by Stegner does feature Joe Alliston, the main character from his earlier novel, the National Book-Award winning “The Spectator Bird.” Alliston and his wife, Ruth, have moved from New England to a more-or-less rural area in the Bay Area.
Joe is justifiably against this intrusion by the young man, but Ruth is much more soft-hearted, and convinces him that their space is big enough to accommodate the new tenant.
This – although not specifically noted in the story – brings on reflections on the differences in their two generations and the gaps in their moral reactions to life itself.
Joe (the old man) meets both Pack, a trouble maker, that preaches for the usage of drugs, yoga, loud music, and also his new neighbor, Marian, who loves all the little live things and believes in true nature, both are not understood to him.Powerful, powerful book, that you just can't forget and raises the question of what really matters in life, and will make you think about life, death, nature and the human nature too.I highly recommend the audiobook, narrated by the talented Edward Herrmann, that also narrated Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption, which is great.
This book is a sequel to The Spectator Bird, which I loved. I read the books back-to-back, which may have been a mistake. As with all novels by Wallace Stegner, the use of language is beautiful. The issue for me was that I got tired of the cranky protagonist. In this novel, his concerns are those of an old white guy threatened by the counterculture. This should not discourage you from reading this book, but rather a recommendation that you not read it immediately after The Spectator Bird.
Read this probably 30 years ago, but the story, characters and their relationships, and the feelings are stillin my memory. Because of the prose Stegner is one of my all time favorite writers.
There are few books that I have read that rise to the level of perfection like this novel (looking for comparisons, I'm reminded of Curzio Malaparte's Kaputt, Jose Saramago's The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, the poetic ouevre of Alejandra Piznarik and the stories of Kafka.
This is my first reading of Stegner even though I have at least two of his other novels.
Now I want to read every line he ever wrote anywhere else.
I want to fill my coat pockets with scraps of paper with Stegner's quiet yet powerfully resonating meditations and walk into the river of life, not to drown me as would stones, but to guide me on this Dantean journey called Life.
As I read this I couldn’t help but wonder: where is Wallace Stegner in the lists of great 20th Century American writers?
Through Alliston’s daily fight with the moles, aphids, tomato worms, and other pests of nature and as Alliston watches as a dear neighbor fights a malignant form of cancer, Stegner argues that, try as we may, we will not escape hardship, pain, worries, and death.
Despite the somber undercurrent, I put the book down being reminded that life’s hardships, difficulties and sorrows add a depth and even a greatness to our lives.
