https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21790.The_Temple_of_Gold
there is something so annoying yet so forgiveable about a first novel that is less about adventure and more about how the author thinks they have discovered What Life Is Truly All About.
these kinds of novels often combine youthful idealism and cynicism in an awkward way that manages to be both refreshingly honest and irritatingly pretentious.
where is this life leading us to: is that all there is?
Temple's combination of genuine sincerity and young-man-angry-at-the world IS often eye-rolling...
it's easy to form a guilty kind of crush on this appealing and sensitive young novel.
I loved this book so much that when I started reading The Princess Bride and Goldman said in the introduction that "nobody cherished" The Temple of Gold, I immediately put down the book and wrote him a letter. It was a very long time ago that I read it, but I never forgot Raymond Euripides Trevitt and still quote him to this day--"I shall endeavor."
Better than Catcher in the Rye. There, I said it.
I read this book in 1970, and it had an enormous impact on me. I'm not going to read it again because I don't want it out of time. J. D. Salinger just died, and I won't reread Franny and Zooey either. I'd rather remember them both as the most amazing books I've read in my life and leave the books and their brilliantly timely authors there.
Uh-no. Boring.
A new boy moves in next door, same age as our 12-year-old protagonist, and here is the first meeting:"I hear you're an absolute angel," I said to him that morning."I hear you're not," he came right back, which threw me, because I didn't know how the news had spread so fast.A wonderfully-described friendship grows through junior high and high school.
Goldman is such a compelling writer, you tend to forgive that he lets the plot determine what he writes so that the characters don't quite fit in.
I'd rather he let the characters determine the plot.Goldman graduated from Oberlin in 1952, just five years before this book was published.
Странното е, че за осем години съвсем бях забравила какво се случва, въпреки че отново ми харесва със същата сила.
Тогава я четох до четири сутринта, този път ми отне едно пътуване от Варна до София.
Няма никакво съжаление в тази забележително четивна история.
Толкова естествено се излива цялата история, съвсем логична в нелогичността си.
Няма да има смисъл...
Но някой като Тери...
В това има смисъл...
Да провърви с момиче като Тери...
Т о в а е нещо." Дяволска логика.
Дяволска.
Трънливия път до Златния храм, който...
:) Ще ми е интересно след още осем години пак да я препрочета.
Goldman’s sad passing propelled me to check out this coming of age story, to the best of my knowledge the only non-genre novel he wrote. It’s Goldman’s first book, and not his best, and while there’s probably an interesting few hundred words to get here about the way in which Goldman’s genius as a crime/horror/western/fantasy/etc/writer don’t lend themselves to this more traditional task, I’m not going to bother with them cause I got other shit to do. Nil nisi bonum, and all that.
Книга, която остава .....
I wonder what it is about these angsty coming of age novels that the characters have to make such inexplicable choices as they stumble through their angst.
I suppose that's the point, exaggeration of senseless, mindless choices to demonstrate how angsty life is.
Doesn't resonate that strongly with me.I was really enjoying the novel and the characters during the young middle school and high school years, but it sort of careened over the cliff for me once Rip went to college.
Interesting characters.
But ultimately, despite his best efforts, I'm not sure the novel really spoke to me with any really solid insight.
Before reading this one, I had started and abandoned two Kindle daily deals because the writing was not up to my snooty standards, but William Goldman knows how to write and tell a good story.
I found it hard to avoid thinking of the book as autobiographical.
Life deals the main character several severe blows, and I found the cause/effect/responsibility themes to be well represented.
Although the characters are a bit younger than my father, I think the timing and setting might be similar to his experience.
Dad's favorite book for that is The Fires of Spring by James Michener.
Probably one of the most important books I have ever read and far better than Catcher in The Rye. It isn't just about coming of age, it's about how one deals with the pressure that comes when you move into adult hood and all the disappointments and how to deal with him.
I make it sound like a dark book, but it really isn't.
There is plenty of humor in the book and plenty of adventures that Ray Trevitt takes us on.
A wonderful book, that puts you in Ray's shoes and makes you feel what he is going through.

I wanted to love this. I'm such a big fan of Butch & Sundance and the Princess Bride, so I had high expectations for this, despite it being Goldman's first published work.I enjoyed his personal story about the publication of the book, and I thought the first quarter of the book was pretty good. It felt like it should have been a short story that ended there, though. It didn't really do much for me after that.
More like 3.5 stars. Engaging, punchy writing. Really captures reckless teenage spirit and wayward early 20s. Great coming-of-age novel that rivals Catcher in the Rye. Similarly, an unpleasant narrator, but Euripides is preferable to Holden. If I read this one earlier in life, I'd probably give it 5 stars.
Ray, a seventh grader bearing a grudge against life in general, hated him already."I hear you're an absolute angel," I said to him that morning.
William's Goldman's first novel, The Temple of Gold (1956), which he dashed off in three weeks, tells a tale that probably has been lived by many a small town kid.
It didn't work in the 1950s, in small town Illinois.All of the tragic aspects of the novel having been noted, the dialogue is often quite funny, especially in the early chapters between Ray and Zock, and between them and their high school friends.
William Goldman's first novel is a reasonably engaging coming-of-age story about a young man's transition into adulthood and all the foibles that come with that process...
But the reason this 200-page novel took me almost a month to get through is because it hits a wall at around the 117 page mark...and it becomes a labored and tedious affair extending to an unceremonious conclusion long after the book's point, simple as it is, has been made and reaffirmed.The afterword suggests the initial draft ended at around the 125 page mark.
And, at the publisher's insistence, Goldman slapped on another 70 odd pages.It's the publisher's fault then.
Because the book was actually engaging and compelling up to about page 120.
The unsaid word, communication gap, growing up without growing up, misunderstood, lost.I like the story of Raymond Euripides Trevitt but was constantly frustrated by all that could have been avoided if things had just been said! Euripides was likable because of his pain and my empathy, but unlikable because of his unseeing, unwillingness to explain anything and my frustration. Good characterization, good writing. I did like it.
I never really got into the characters. They didn't seem to have much inner life, and I couldn't figure out their motivations. Euripides was sometimes a caring guy, but more often sarcastic, un-empathetic, a boor, not at all like Gunga-Din.
First person narrative of a person you just can't stand - a smart-aleck know-it-all who just keeps making bad choices. I kept reading hoping he would come to a well-deserved bad end. I'm still trying to figure out how William Goldman got to be a well-known writer.
my favorite bookread spring 2014reread spring 2018
A really solid 2.5 - very coming of age, a little disjointed, and feeling its age in terms of coming across dated, but I still found myself reading eagerly along.
This evocation of the 50s seems quaint in places but honest.
An engaging coming-of-age storyThe hallmarks of Goldman’s screenwriting skills are already evident in this first novel, whose greatest strength is the snappy dialogue.
Trovarsi di fronte ad un romanzo di William Goldman è un'esperienza da vivere.Sappiamo che si tratta di pagine scritte dall'autore de Il maratoneta, da cui fu tratto lo splendido film con Dustin Hoffman e Laurence Olivier, e che dalla sua penna sono nate le sceneggiature vincitrici dell'Oscar di Butch Cassidy e Tutti gli uomini del presidente.
Il titolo italiano sottolinea l'aspetto biografico del romanzo, ma quella frase "io sono Raymond" la sento pronunciata a braccia aperte, come se ci si volesse scusare di ciò che si è.
New York City, New York: Ballantine Books.The Temple of Gold is an incredible coming of age story about a young man named Ray Trevitt.
The book will captivate students' and help them to feel understood and connected by realizing that Ray represents the progression to adulthood that all teenagers and young adults go through.
Students will likely feel very connected to the narrator because they will go through or have gone through experiences that are very similar in nature to Ray's as they grow up to become adults.
(view spoiler)[The title is a reference to the ending of Gunga Din, a poem by Rudyard Kipling, and a film starring Cary Grant, in which, as I understand it, avarice leads to the downfall of the main protagonist, while, in order to do his duty and raise the alarm, a companion heroically signs his own death warrant.Golding is a very good writer.
Or should we understand from the temple of gold reference that the protagonist is not long for this world, like Hemingway's A Clean Well Lighted Place?
he was pretty much a dick, which is fine, but i wasn’t able to determine how the author wanted us to feel about the main character.
were we supposed to not sympathize with him and think he was a dick?
or were we supposed to think he was a sympathetic character and like him in spite of the dickiness?
if you liked that book, you’ll probably like this one, though this one isn’t nearly as profound (i don’t think) as owen meany.
i still think about that book and i read it last year.
Goldman's first novel, I'm told, is more of a literary attempt than his later suspense and adventure novels.
The protagonist is sort of a next-level Holden Caulfield, the son of a classics professor, who meets his best friend, goes to college, gets drafted, returns home, gets married, and more or less loses it all.
I wish I could do Mr. Goldman more justice here, but the truth is, the book didn't leave a mark on me.
This one tried to be the voice of a generation I only have, at best, nodding acquaintance with.
I like the idea of each of our lives being a circle, a continuous arc from beginning to end, where the greatest moments are those where our circle meets another concentric circle.
Goldman writes and reads with ease and directness.
Raymond voice in Temple of Gold sounds familiar in a Holden Caufield sort of way and the story itself reminds me of the rite of passage that defines Catcher in the Rye. As in most books I read, I enjoy most the connections I feel to my own experiences and there are many in this novel.
You go home."
