https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181768.The_Reed_of_God
This is my experience with "The Reed of God." Not simply a journey with the Virgin Mary from the Annunciation to the Assumption, it is one long prayer with her.
A real, human Mary becomes a real, human exemplar for us as we walk along our journey to God. All of this comes during a time when the author is in the midst of the carnage of the Second World War in England.
AMAZING! BEAUTIFUL! Reads like poetry! Have put ALL the rest of her works on my wishlist--as money and time permit.
A Fantastic book for the season of Advent and Christmas.The reflections on the passages of the Infancy narratives of the Holy Bible are often viewed as very little and hardly adequate.
Under Houselander's thoughtful observations Mary's Virginity, Assumption, and her Search for the Lost Child begin to shine differently and very brightly.I had read the book just before Christmas and still most of the chapters are fresh in my mind.
I need to write a different review.
I will be reading it again for sure and I will update the review too.It was a Christmas gift from a GR friend and undoubtedly it is one of the best gifts.
Through the words and illustrations of this book what shines through is the beautiful love of a woman for Christ and His Church.
She writes from an early twentieth century English outlook and thus her chapters are interspersed with examples from the war.
First she shows the importance for the Christian of a relationship with Mary.
How the example of Mary can inspire and guide us, especially in difficult times, and how we can turn to her as an intercessor and mother.
Secondly, she shows how Mary draws us towards Christ, and how ultimately our relationship with Mary is senseless otherwise.
One of my favorite books, and certainly my favorite inspirational book! This book, written in 1944 (I believe) is just wonderful. It, more than anything I have read, has brought me closer to Our Blessed Mother, and hence, to Christ Himself. Filled with lyrical prose and touching analogies, Houselander shows how Mary was the "Reed of God" waiting to be filled (with her maternity)...and that we are ALL vessels waiting to do God's work, and carrying Christ within us. Just remarkable.
A small book full of grace! It is meant to be read slowly, savored. I made it stretch through Lent and it is a beautiful accompaniment to my attempts to grow in my faith...and what better way than through Our Lady.
Was prompted by another review to add these thoughts: I thought this was a profoundly beautiful poetic meditation on the way that Mary models "the whole offering of soul and body to be consumed in the fire of love and changed into the flame of its glory...the wholeness of Love through which our own humanity has become the bride of the Spirit of Life" (Introduction xi).
Beautiful.
But this is not the book I would recommend if someone is wondering what Catholics really believe about Mary.
That's not to say that you have to be Catholic to read it but rather that you should have that understanding going in.
What a little gem of a book. What a tribute to Mother Mary. What a powerful and poetic look at Life and Love. I found myself so moved at times that tears came to my eyes and my heart fluttered. If you can get past the dogma, you will find underlying, a deep and rich treasure of mystical, prayerful, powerful, Divine Truth, lighting the way Home. I can't wait to read her other works. Utterly and breathtakingly beautiful.
I started this book for Lenten reading, so I am obviously behind. It wasn't that the book was boring. It was more like the book had so much depth that I had to read a little and digest it for a few days before going back.This book is a wonderful reflection on Mary and how her willingness to say yes to God serves all Christians today. I hadn't ever read any of Houselander's other books, but she is an excellent writer and provides powerful contemplation.
I love Caryll Houselander and this book is one of her best. She writes very eloquently and mystically and reading her books always gives me so much to think about. She is a true contemplative. I loved it!
This is the first book by Caryll Houselander that I've read. I have always heard that her books are excellent. This book is a case in point. Caryll speaks eloquently about our Blessed Mother's role and provides great insight to her readers about "seeking the lost Child." A definite "must read."
I remember that this book was very good, wow just forgot how good. Such an excellent meditation on Mary and Jesus. Really brings out the truth of the phrase "To Jesus through Mary."
Obsessed. Every Catholic should read this and every pregnant woman. Each line is a marvel.
Perfect Advent read. I suspect Lent is also a good time for this book!
Not the typical, slightly gooey-eyed devotional book about Mary - in fact Houselander starts by saying how off-putting she found such an other-worldly approach to her - but a series of profound reflections and meditations firmly grounded in reality.
And of course, any meditation concerning Our Lady should be about the Incarnation, or it is rather missing the point.So these meditations, prose and verse, are grounded in earthly reality, but illuminated by heavenly perspectives; and frequently strike you with real force.
It is the sort of book that, on finishing, you want to start again, aware of having already allowed some of the power to fade...
Prolific writer, Caryll Houselander explores the role of the Virgin Mary as Christ bearer in this beautifully written book. It is a blend of mysticism and scripture combined with a look at human nature. Houselander's lyrical style provides the reader with meditation-worthy material. I found it beneficial to reflect between chapters on the beauty of Houselander's words. It is a book that you will delve into repeatedly
Just too Biblical and sin-oriented for me... I'm sure the writing is good and some get much out of it. Recommended by a good and very Catholic friend. I am not Catholic, but told her I seek to understand Mary better.
A great dedication to the lives of Mary and Jesus. Her exhortations are extremely Catholic in language, written with obvious joy and love for the subject. Only there was nothing in this book that I believe will make it stand out. It's a great love story but it wont stick with you.
A book about Mary, which is entirely about Jesus, as it should be and as I think she would want it. For sure, this is one of the top-three spiritual books I've ever read - more like a prayer than a book.
This is one of the best books on Mary that I have read. It is profoundly Christ-centered, incarnational, Eucharistic, contemplative, and mystical. It places Mary and Jesus among the poor and excluded. It is a gem.
I just came across this book at just the right time spiritually. I devoured it and even carried it around in my purse for awhile in case I found myself with a spare moment.
Beautiful, spot-on imagery distilling and instilling profound spiritual and human truths.
so much richness and beauty in this book. need to reread, maybe once a year, especially portions during advent, lent, Easter, and other feast days that correspond to the chapters. highly recommend.
Tremendously beautiful, moving book. Everyone should read it.
For anyone interested in mystical, feminine spiritual - from the vantage point of a reverted Catholic, this is a must read. I visit and revisit my marked up copy of this book.
What a quiet, joyful read. I don't know why, but I've avoided this book for years. I'm really glad I picked it up. Pretty great stuff here.
Beautiful, lucid, warm and thought-provoking. Also, a wonderful sort of mysticism for theological neophytes, the kind (like me, ha!) who struggle to comprehend even a sentence of St Teresa of Avila.
Beautifully written. Emotive but clear.
I absolutely loved this; it completely solidified how I thought about Mary and expanded my understanding of her faith and importance.
Moving, a book I'd like to return to and which I feel contains great depth in a small package (a description that I think would appeal to the author quite a bit).
