https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179172.Destination_Moon
Objectif Lune (Tintin #16), Hergé تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ژانویه سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: ماجراهای تن تن و میلو ( هدف کره ماه )؛ هرژه؛ مترجم: خسرو سمیعی؛ تهران، یونیورسال، 1350، در در 65 ص؛ ادامه داستان با عنوان: روی ماه را رفتیم سفره به کره ماه را، نشر رایحه اندیشه در سال 1385 هجری شمسی در 64 صفحه و جلد بسیار خوب منتشر کرده است، جلد 16 از مجموعه هرژه نشر رایحه اندیشه است. ا. شربیانی
A Swedish friend who speaks fluent French and is seriously into B.D. told me that this book was first to introduce the verb alunir (touch down on the Moon), formed by analogy with the verb aterrir (touch down). Then when the Apollo 11 astronauts did it in real life, French TV actually used Hergé's word! He was still alive then, and must have felt very proud...
The super-modern (for when it was written in1953) Sprodj Atomic Research Center, and the details of the rocket where quite an amazing concept when the book was first published, 16 years before the first real moon landing by Neil Armstrong in 1969.It is full of adventure, such as when Tintin is wounded while surprising villains at the ventilator grid in the picturesque Syldavian Mountains; and much humour such as escapades with CaptainHaddock's pipe and Professor Calculus' hearing aid , and the famous scene of an enraged Professor Calculus `acting the goat'.It is a great adventure for all ages, a wonderful album to have.
This part and it sequel are one of the most interesting episodes of this franchise!!This has a lot of scope for adventure along with scientific fiction!! Tintin is as usual awesome with his acute thinking and decision making! Snowy is as wonderful as ever!! Haddock gives some comic relief with his impatience!! Dr. Calculus has got some major share in this part! Thompson and thomson were hilarious!!
One of the things I love best about Tintin books are the ridiculous and improbable situations that Tintin finds himself in. A rocket is being sent to the moon? Let's send a teenager, his small dog, a retired alcoholic sea captain, and an old man!
پروفسور کلکولس دوستداشتنی برای دولت «سیلداویا» برنامه فضایی تهیه میکند. تنتن و ناخدا هادوک به کلکولس اضافه میشوند و با جاسوسان دشمنان برنامه فضایی جدال جذابشان را شروع میکنند.
پروفسور کلکولس دوست‌داشتنی برای دولت «سیلداویا» برنامه فضایی تهیه می‌کند. تن‌‌تن و ناخدا هادوک به کلکولس اضافه می‌شوند و با جاسوسان دشمنان برنامه فضایی جدال جذابشان را شروع می‌کنند.
But this isn't amongst the strongest Tintins for a few reasons: it's really a build-up to the main event in Explorers on the Moon, so there's a lot of filler instead of plot, mostly involving Captain Haddock and the Thompsons slapstick scenes - funny on small doses, not so much when it takes up half the book.
On the plus side, Herge's foresight and grasp of the technical aspects of space travel is genuinely amazing, and the conclusion of the book, when the rocket finally launches, is totally gripping.
Now looking forward to re-reading Explorers!
There are no female characters in this comic.
I remember these being much longer.
The mysterious disappearance of Calculus and his telegram bring Tintin, Captain Haddock and Snowy to the Syldavia, the land of the mineral water.
Calculus is building a rocket straight for the moon and tintin, haddock and snowy and the ones he is willing to take along with him.
'Billions of blistering barnacles' and 'ten thousand thundering typhoons' are just the tip of iceberg of curses he will haul throughtout the comic.This comic is a fun read through and through, with remarkable storyline, laughable punches and brilliant artwork.
Another remarkable thing that i noticed was, tintin and snowy has the same expression when they are suspicious of something.
Tournesol finally comes out as the great scientist he truly is! In fact, he is behind the plans for the construction of a rocket to the Moon! And, of course, after a lot of adventures and difficulties, Tintin becomes the first human to tread on the Moon... A very funny episode of tese Tintin's adventures! But the story continues in the next book...Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 18 January 2015.
تن تن و تخیلات هرژه جزو چیزایین که تو زندگی میپرستم!
Syldavian avaruusohjelma on syystä tai toisesta jäänyt USA:n ja Neuvostoliiton varjoon, vaikka tosiasiassahan tämä historiankirjojen hyljeksimä itäeurooppalainen maa lähetti ensimmäisenä rakettinsa kuuhun. Vuonna 1953 tapahtuneen avaruuslennon mahdollistivat natsien V2:een ilmiselvästi pohjautuneet avaruusraketin piirrustukset, professori Theophilus Tuhatkaunon rakentama ydinkäyttöinen rakettimoottori sekä hämmästyttävän kokematon miehistö, johon kuuluivat muun muassa nuori töyhtöpäinen lehtimies ja alkoholiongelmasta kärsivä entinen merikapteeni.Lapsuudessa tämä oli yksi vaikuttavimmista Tinteistä, eikä se hassumpi albumi ole vieläkään, vaikka teknologiset "faktat" eivät ihan niin realistisilta tunnu kuin neljännesvuosisata sitten. Hergén visionäärisiä kykyjä ei silti voi vähätellä, aikakautensa tietämyksen valossa hän suoriutui kuulennon kuvaajana varsin hienosti!
Lots of comedy (rereading as an adult, I wonder about Haddock's blood pressure lol) - my favourite bit is the 'goat' bit between Haddock and Calculus, interesting foresight technologically by Herge, this books sets the scene for the sequel.
جزو بهترین کارهای تنتن نیست اما بالاخره تموماش کردم. به زبان اصلی! و از این بابت بسیار مسرور و خرسندم هر چند که قسمتهای زیادی بودند که معنی لغات رو نمیدونستم. شرمی از گفتنش ندارم اما ی جایی باید این ماجرا تموم بشه. یه جایی در همین سال پیش رو
جزو بهترین کارهای تن‌تن نیست اما بالاخره تموم‌اش کردم. به زبان اصلی! و از این بابت بسیار مسرور و خرسندم هر چند که قسمت‌های زیادی بودند که معنی لغات رو نمی‌دونستم. شرمی از گفتنش ندارم اما ی جایی باید این ماجرا تموم بشه. یه جایی در همین سال پیش رو
a very good read. the book has lot of fun moments and extremely funny at times. a worthy tintin book.
#53 for 2018Genre: Adventure Comic
C'est le premier livre que j'ai lu en français!
doors/doorways, pipes, ear-trumpets, even a cork--it seems whale is extra clumsy this time
Tintin is home but is soon sent to Syldavia to witness a test flight of a moon rocket that will go around to the darkside of the Moon and photograph it.Destination Moon is better paced than Land of Black Gold, probably because it's not suffering from such a severe editing job.
Meanwhile the rocket ship is your typical pulp science fiction three-point deal.The book ends with the space program advancing from the unmanned flight to one that will be manned by Tintin (why?), the Captain (again why?), Dr. Calculus (huh?) and some other guy.
We could probably have done without 4 pages of memory loss hijinks just as the story was getting interesting too.I think that's what I find frustrating about these books - at it's heart there's a great science fiction romance at play and it's fascinating seeing Hergé's vision of what space travel and the science behind it may be like.
But the inane jokes and slapstick are repetitive and distract from the bigger picture.Frankly, this could have been condensed with both books combined making a tighter and more thrilling story.
Part one of a two-book story.
Herge is in fine form here with his full comedic ensemble in place.
This comic, published 16 years before the first manned lunar landing, was somewhat prescient, though it drew from the existing science and scientific aspirations of 1953.
Tintin and friends not only prepare to embark on their boldest adventure yet, but face off against a shadowy band of spies and saboteurs.
As usual, a good mix of action and slapstick.
As a bonus, there is nothing to criticize here in terms of racism or Orientalism.
This book also features some of Herge's best art to date.
This book nice and cool and something I love about it is rockets even though the book is not speaking about rockets.This book speaks about the moon that they are trying to go to it.Sometimes there is no captain haddock in the book so I don't like that.that is why I gave this book 3 star
Gripping comic. Although I do not read many comics nowadays, but I still cherish the memories when 10-year old me would go to the British Library in Bhopal (now closed :( ), and have fun for all day long. ps: X-FLR6 looks like V-2 rocket. If you liked this, you'd love Explorers on the Moon.
Another Tintin adventure featuring Snowy, Captain Haddock and Tintin of course.
My first Tintin! Extremely memorable.
Herge is loyal to his habit of inspiring real cases in his stories again.
Even the missile designed by Herge in his book was based on the Rocket V-2 designed by German scientists during the Second World War.But perhaps one of the coolest points of this story is the cover of its book.
On this photo, we see Haddock, Calculus, Tintin, and Milo riding on the jeep, and Calculus is providing information about the mission.
But the interesting thing is that the jeep wheel is not in the picture!
It's not clear whether this was intentional, or it a mistake when Herge was designing this cover photo.
Although Herge's drawing style, especially with the larger panels, is very clear and rather iconic in a 1950s sort of way, the speech bubbles are a little too wordy in places and certainly, the slapstick stuff with Captain Haddock feels like a super-unfunny, irritating filler most of the time.
This story seems rather dated now, but for 1959, I guess this was almost state-of-the-art rocketry and science, and shows interesting signs of Herge's understanding of G-forces (much more extreme for the early 1960s Gemini/Mercury launches than Soyuz these days) and how the rocket's engines should work (more like nowadays!) All said, this is part 1 of 2 moon episodes, so not much of the story is resolved yet.
Part 16 of my (actually happening!) big re-read of the whole Tintin-canon after decades ...I had read this one before, and whilst I can now appreciate it more due to the infos provided in the excellent 'The Complete Companion' by Michael Farr, I can also see the weaknesses - mostly the pacing and the balance between drama and comedy.
Within the comedy I find it increasingly annoying that some jokes are ridden until they're raw, examples would be Haddock and the door or Haddock and the hole in the floor aboard the rocket.
Verdict: Still one of the better Tintins, but I'll reserve judgement until I finish the 2nd part.
Haddock sees that Calculus has written to them, requesting them to meet him in Syldavia.
From then on, Tintin and Haddock encounter numerous checkpoints.Finally, they arrive at Sprodj.
The others cannot find out how it happened.Elsewhere, in Borduria, plans go on inside a secret organization to seize the Syldavian rocket during its flight.The Thompsons explore the centre in search of mystries and run into scintillating experiences.In a few weeks, Tintin recovers from his wound.
Tintin has coaxed Calculus into rigging up a remote explosive inside the rocket.
The explorers: Cuthbert Calculus, Frank Wolff, Tintin, Captain Haddock and Snowy.
