https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26348.Paris_1919
I learned so much from MacMillan's intricate account of the time after the Great War. Relying on many historical facts and documents, MacMillan offers up not only a depiction of the world in the months after the Armistice had been signed, but how the world changed dramatically.
The only caveat required to present a plea the ‘Big Four’ was that a group must justify how they were supporters of the victors throughout the Great War. Ostensibly led by American President Woodrow Wilson, the Big Four sought to re-draw the world in such a way as to create calmness and ensure the vanquished were left with little.
The world has never seen anything quite like it and never will again.”-	Margaret MacMillan, Paris 1919: Six Months that Changed the WorldI once read that the most fascinating aspects of World War I – from a historical perspective – were its beginning and its end.
One of the better books I read about the lead-up to the Great War was Margaret MacMillan’s The War that Ended Peace.
The driving forces in Paris were the leaders of the victorious triumvirate of America, Great Britain, and France: Wilson, Lloyd George, and Clemenceau.
I really do need to read more about this period – but if Germany was not making any reparation payments it might be going a little far to say that they caused an onerous burden on them that brought about the next war.I had thought that everyone knew why the First World War began – but apparently this is a question that is vigorously debated and is therefore highly controversial and inconclusive.
Lloyd George and other world leaders use Wilson’s proclaimed right of self-determination as cover to advance their own countries’ ambitions.
Sadly that nationalism frequently ends up turning into further subjugation of the weak and vulnerable.Macmillan portrays the peace treaty and new arbitrary national boundaries as the outcome of negotiations by ill prepared self-serving politicians who could not see the impact of their decisions on a rapidly changing world.
These atrocities did pale in comparison to Turkish genocide of the Armenians in the war, but in WWI the Germans set a precedent with their “bad behavior” that Hitler would later extoll as virtuous and increase exponentially in WWII.Was the Versailles treaty responsible for WWII?
Not to mention that the governments of all the Big Three had vengeful and unhappy publics and oppositions at home who could dissolve their governments at any time if they didn't like how things were going.Macmillan takes us through all of these problems thematically, each chapter dealing with one of these regions of the globe where the war had created some sort of chaos that needed to be dealt with.
“The delegates to the peace conference after World War I "tried to impose a rational order on an irrational world.”  In Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World, Margaret MacMillan scrutinizes the crucial months when the winners of the First World War sat together and determined what the penalty would be for those who dared to lose the war. The Treaty of Versailles was supposed to have settled the First World War, it further represented a dream that it could end all wars. Far from it, as y
In Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World, Margaret MacMillan scrutinizes the crucial months when the winners of the First World War sat together and determined what the penalty would be for those who dared to lose the war.
Winners set together and determined what penalties losers would have to pay.
Thus, it helped to create the conditions that would lead to the Second World War. I read Paris 1919 after having finished the excellent The War That Ended Peace: The Road To 1914 (which examines the years leading to the the beginning of WWI).
The three most important participants were Georges Clemenceau who wanted to protect France from future attacks from Germany, the idealistic Woodrow Wilson who pushed for his Fourteen Points including a League of Nations, and David Lloyd George who was concerned with the interests of the large British Empire and its naval power.
Thousands more joined them in Paris to hammer out agreements, redraw national boundaries, and impose reparations.Wilson's idea of self-determination raised the hopes of groups in many countries, but it was impossible to implement.
MacMillan does point out artificial boundaries set up at the Peace Conference that led to more unrest in the future, such as the fighting that is still going on in the Middle East.
"Each of the Big Three at the Peace Conference brought something of his own country to the negotiations: Wilson the United States' benevolence, a confident assurance that the American way was the best, and an uneasy suspicion that the Europeans might fail to see this; Clemenceau France's profound patriotism, its relief at the victory and its perpetual apprehension of a revived Germany; and Lloyd George Britain's vast web of colonies and its mighty navy.
He was always exactly the same to those who knew him well: ready to argue any point, to listen to disagreeable facts even when controversially presented.” His famous charm was rooted in this combination of curiosity and attention."Certainly more appealing than the personalities of Wilson and Clemenceau himself.==============Churchill, prescient again, about what it would take Orwell and Solzhenitsyn to make clear to the West many decades later....“The essence of Bolshevism as opposed to many other forms of visionary political thought,” Churchill asserted, “is that it can only be propagated and maintained by violence.”However, many believed that the Russian Bolsheviks would eventually settle down and become bourgeois.===="Atatürk was a complicated, brave, determined and dangerous man.....Early on Atatürk developed a contempt for religion that never left him.
Interested as I am in things Bulgarian, I read Chapter 11 with special attention, especially the following about then-Prime Minister Alexander Stamboliski:In June 1923, there was a coup; Stamboliski was killed by Macedonian conspirators who first cut off the hand which had signed the antiterrorist agreement with Yugoslavia.Desperate as usual for material in my next Bulgarian conversation class, I mentioned this event (only average gruesome by Balkan standards) to my teacher.
Not true, she said, the writer must be thinking of Stefan Stambolov (died 1895), a man who shared the following qualities with Stamboliski: was Bulgarian, was Prime Minister a long time ago, died violently for political reasons, was killed by Macedonians, had the same initial seven letters in his surname.
The Serbians were aligned with Russia but under Austrian control.
Austria was aligned with Germany and France aligned with Russia.
England joined Russia and France primarily to defeat Germany in order to abolish it's Navy.
Germany was about to win but England induced President Wilson into American support.
As a result Vietnam became a Communist Country.
Furthermore, the independent country of Tyrol was ceded to Austria and Italy.Also, The Chinese as a member of the winning side had requested a restoration of its territory that was previously under German control.
The major narrative is quite compelling, the minor vignettes that attend it are often fascinating (I'm still trying to wrap my mind around the idea that Ho Chi Minh was there), and I even learned a thing or two about my own family history (I'd never known there was a region of Eastern Europe called Galicia that thought of itself as a cohesive and autonomous entity -- in spite of the fact that my grandparents came from there).
A terrific book, and one I plan on re-reading in the not-too-distant future.
Muy buen libro, aunque a veces peca de ser demasiado exhaustivo con los datos, pero te da una inmejo
I read this work because of an interest in the after-effects of the peace to subsequent German history.
(It tried unsuccessfully to claim the ships scuttled at Scapa Flow.) Even when the payment schedules were revised downward several times, however, the Germans continued to argue that reparations were intolerable.
With a unanimity rare in Weimar politics, Germans felt they were paying too much.
If Germany was not prepared to pay reparations, the Allies were not prepared to enforce their will.
This history of the Versailles Treaty takes concentration and reflection as it outlines, in detail, the machinations of France, Britain, Italy (sporadic at best) and the United States, as they struggled to author a treaty which was impossible to create.Countries and colonies were moved like chess pieces on a world map in an attempt to keep power concentrated with the major players, without regard to the citizens and ethnic groups of the defeated nations.
Orlando of Italy wanted ports on the Adriatic Sea, and the Welsh Wizard, David Lloyd George, wanted to keep the British Empire intact and protected.Did this treaty contribute to the rise of the Nazi party and the Second World War?
With such a riot of information and colorful personalities, most people don't seem to notice, or mind, the tendency of meanness towards not only historical figures but entire nations.
Yes, she only ever quotes other's opinions and observations, but there are ways and ways to present a person, let alone a whole group of people, in a manner that paints them with some depth (behind their ridiculous or primitive properties), that's not ridiculing them, or coming down to a single (often demeaning) statement about them.
It is too bad, as I do find her book a trove of information.
So many incredible things happened during this time period. I recall as a student being told that one should learn from history so we don't repeat mistakes. The current politicians and those pretending to be really need to read this tomb and take to heart the lesson that if holds.
It's all very complicated, and it's a very, very long book (around 600 pages) but part of what makes it digestible is that MacMillan breaks it up regionally, following say the personalities of the newly emerging Yugoslavia and following up on its ultimate fate and how it was affected by those six months in 1919.I think it also escapes being dry due to how well drawn are the various personalities involved.
MacMillan deals with many of the leaders from the newly emerging states, but her primary focus is on the leaders of the Big Three: Woodrow Wilson of the United States, Clemenceau of France and Lloyd George of Britain.
If reading 900 pages on the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 and the making of the Treaty of Versailles doesn't seem like your idea of a good time, I'm here to tell you how wrong you are.
Much like Margaret MacMillan's equally excellent "The War That Ended Peace" (about the events leading up to WWI), "Paris 1919" has an absolutely charming fly-on-the-wall quality about it that really does fascinate.
Almost as interesting as the teeth of a stegosaurus!" Stranger than fiction indeed!It is stories like this one that makes "Paris 1919" such a delight to read and Margaret MacMillan such a wonderful, informative guide.
According to Wikipedia.org, this book argues that the conditions imposed on Germany in the Treaty of Versailles did not lead to the rise of Adolf Hitler.
I read the book back in 2003 so my memory of its contents is a bit hazy, but I don’t remember that point being made by the book.
What I do remember is that the breakup of the Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires caused numerous cases of minority enclaves being surrounded by hostile neighbors.
Even readers who think they know the story will find Margaret MacMillan’s clear-eyed narrative both enlightening and hair-raising.
Since Margaret MacMillan is the great-granddaughter of David Lloyd George, one might expect that a comprehensive book like this would rely on personalities of the Big Four, and that it might be overly-sympathetic to Woodrow Wilson, Lloyd George, and Clemenceau.
The only minor quibble I have was her method of taking one region at a time sequentially (which Andelman also does to a certain extent), this taking events out of chronology - we hear about the conclusion of Turkish independence in the mid-1920s, for example, before hearing about Germany signing the peace treaty.
Her research is impeccable, but there is little analysis as to how these events actually changed the world other than the occasional one liner.
Perhaps this is not actually Ms. MacMillan's fault as much as the publisher who changed the title from "The Peacemakers" to "Paris 1919: Six Months that Changed the World." Perhaps this same flaw is responsible for my next criticism of this book.
The viewpoints of this book are mostly those of the 4 powers that decided the provisions of The Treaty of Versailles.
The most glaring error is the omission of the German point-of-view and the German response to the treaty, other than anger.
Portrait of Lloyd George is comical, striking a point somewhere between a charming douche and a douchey charmer.Good set of before-and-after-and-after-again maps to show the transformations.
Careful to detail the positions of the major Allies on each question, which always included imperialist demands, wherein self-determination is usually a rule that applies to the other guys’ claims.
(McMillan does annoyingly present the Allied intervention into the Russian civil war as a goof.) There is nevertheless virtually nothing about the Soviet Union.Some good hard data.
It looks as though every border adjustment caused a border war, and we should regard WWI as including, after the armistice, a series of overlapping belligerences specific to certain states or regions.
There's a great deal about the, well, really big important decisions and failures and successes, focusing on Poland, Austro-Hungary, Ottomans, Germany, etc, and some about the League of Nations and all that.I think the point is to follow through the diplomatic and political wrangling behind the decisions, but often there's also a great deal of general information which is already staggeringly well known, in a general sort of way.
Most of them, presumably, failed (or history would bother to remember them,) but I still would have liked to know a lot more about it.
By turns fascinating and flustering--knowing what we know now--MacMillan skillfully creates a narrative from cold, hard facts and brings the personalities of the American, French, British and various other politicos who tried the best that they knew how to make the world safe for democracy after the world's greatest armed conflict up to that time.
Again, such minor details only increase our appreciation for the seemingly impossible work of 1919 combined with our apprehension knowing that an even more horrendous war was only a quarter-century down the road.A must for history buffs and a fascinating (though at times slow) read for amateur knowledge-hounds.
Margaret Macmillan is a master storyteller and a methodical historian.
Paris 1919 is a wide-ranging and detailed account of many nations and personalities at pains to achieve statehood, strategic goals, abusive gains, and compensation following the Great War. My experience of reading Paris 1919 was a little back-and-forth.
Finally, the second half was exhilarating in its sweeping historical account of the conflicts of the Mediterranean nations, Asia, and the Middle East.
These three distinct experiences confused my evaluation of this book, but ultimately I would recommend it as a solid work of general history and biography that requires, at times, a little perseverance.
This is a very detailed history of Versailles treaty, sometimes even excessive and unnecessary details like what negotiators were doing in their spare time, their residence in Paris, ...
.Versailles treaty is notorious for imposing harsh terms on Germany and therefore causing World War II.
(Wilson), Britain (Lloyd George), France (Clemenceau) and Italy (Orlando)) made many bad decisions but I think the worst one was about Middle East; creating Iraq and what they did to Palestine.This book may be long and sometimes boring but it's definitely important and worth the effort since decisions made in Paris shaped the modern world and its struggles for years to come.
People tend to forget that the treaty of Frankfurt of 1871 which established the new order in Continental Europe after the Franco-Prussian war, could also be interpreted as being hugely contributory to the forces which unleashed the First World War, and yet the spotlight is never turned on the unfairness of that treaty in apportioning blame for 1914.Macmillans' boldly revisionist account of the 1919 Paris peace conference deconstructs some of the asumptions and myths and injects a refreshing re-telling of some of the events of those heady days in January- June 1919.
Without ignoring the political difficulties that the Western powers faced and the failure of their efforts, MacMillan places blame squarely where it belongs; at the feet of Adolf Hitler.
The Western powers, according to Keynes, placed such a crushing financial burden on Germany that the defeated state and its people were doomed to failure.
One of the major failures of the Paris peacemaking process was to forge a fair and more lasting resolution between China and the rising power of Japan.
Again, Wilson was viewed as the ultimate sell-out on this point.MacMillan describes Paris to have been the "center of the world government" for the first six months of 1919.
The Treaty:1) dismantled the Austrian-Hungarian and Ottoman Empires2) gives Syria and Lebanon to France3) reconstitutes three peoples of the Mesopotamian area into Iraq 4) gives Iraq and Palestine to England5) forces the Germans to give Alsace and Lorraine to France6) gives Poland the German territories of West Prussia and Posen7) gives large portions of Schleswig (part of Germany) to Denmark 8) places the port of Danzig under the control of the League of Nations9) forces Germany to accept responsibility for war and pay an 6.6 billion10) cedes independent country of Tyrol to Austria and Italy11) refuses the Chinese' request for a restoration of its territory that was previously under German control and instead cedes it to Japan (China was on the winning side of WWI, but it made no difference.) During the negotiations, a bus boy by the name of Ho Chi Min asked to be heard regarding the freedom of his home country Vietnam.
