https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201126.We_re_Going_on_a_Bear_Hunt
A Scathing Review of We're Going on a Bear Hunt, aka "The Children's Guide to Passive Suicide" Before we go any further, a little context:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zWpzxz...There are plenty of children's books about self destructive impulses.
There are only two options that come to mind when I try to discern author intention here: this book is either a treatise for parents "tactfully" trying to get rid of their kids, or the first in a failed series of books, the overarching theme of which is "let's do stupid shit!"Yeah, they're going on a bear hunt, just like this zebra is going on a "lion hunt"Then there's the artwork.
We're all going on a bear hunt,Why are we hunting a bear?For fur?To eat?To play marbles with?We never find out. It keeps me awake at night. There was no gun. They bought the whole family. Maybe the bear is their uncle?
In this repetitive story, the reader is taken along on a family’s hunt for a bear.
Walking through the grass, traversing a river, and pushing through a snowstorm are only a few of the obstacles they must overcome (each with their own sounds) in order to make it to the bear’s cave.
Once they reach the cave and come eye to eye with this bear....
they quickly change their minds and rush back through all the obstacles to the safety of being under the covers.
Quite the tale and Neo enjoyed all the odd sounds as the family made their way through the book.
This is a perfect mix of rhyme and repetition, with a good measure of suspense thrown in.
Even better is the ease with which this can be read and performed; you can walk around and have fun with it, and this is exactly what we need in my household.
I used this book as part of my storytime assessment at TAFE.
It's a great book to engage with youngsters and hopefully start off with a life long learning of books.
Reading is meant to be fun and this is a perfect example!
Go for it if you've got some youngsters nearby.
I don't know what I'd think of this now, if I were reading it for the first time.
But my kids and I sure did love it when they were young and younger.
So fun to read aloud, with all the drama.
but it did help me remember details of this, and more of why I love it.
This is the brilliant book that belongs in every child's personal collection.
Read this out loud even if you don't have a child.
Note how fun it is to read the trip out casually, adventurously...
and then the trip back fast, faster, until "under the covers" &etc.
I know this book off by heart due to the amount of times I’ve read it to the children at the pre-school I work at...I wanted to rate it🤷🏻♀😂
I know this book off by heart due to the amount of times I’ve read it to the children at the pre-school I work at...I wanted to rate it🤷🏻‍♀️😂
Tips on sharing this as a read-aloud with a group...I begin my story times with this chant:Hello everybody let’s clap our hands, clap our hands, clap our hands. Hello everybody, let’s clap our hands, clap our hands today.  … (begin with clapping hands, slap knees, --as many actions as needed to create energy and get everyone together— end today with “fasten our seatbelts” & “start the engine” & “say, “Are we there yet?”.• Begin by saying, “Do you know where we drove?” Open to the first d
Tips on sharing this as a read-aloud with a group...I begin my story times with this chant:Hello everybody let’s clap our hands, clap our hands, clap our hands.
Hello everybody, let’s clap our hands, clap our hands today.
… (begin with clapping hands, slap knees, --as many actions as needed to create energy and get everyone together— end today with “fasten our seatbelts” & “start the engine” & “say, “Are we there yet?”.•	Begin by saying, “Do you know where we drove?” Open to the first double-page spread which depicts the beach.
ask instead, “Can we go over it?” and shake your head while everyone says “no!”, etc.
‘We're going on a bear hunt.We're going to catch a big one.What a beautiful day!We're not scared.’A superb read-out-loud book about a family who decide to embark on a venture to find a bear.
Michael Rosen skilfully repeats some phrases and the use of onomatopoeia as the family experience each surrounding (‘splash splosh’, ‘squelch squerch’).
If reading this book out loud with a class, the teacher can pause here and ask children to recall the adventures the characters went through in the correct order from the most recent.
A great book for children to join in as a whole class during ‘story time’ which can then be used to explore different settings later on.
For a book to be around for 25 years it has to have a lot going for it.
So the family encounters various obstacles in their way which they have to go through on their bear hunt, including long wavy grass, a deep cold river, thick oozy mud, and so on.
The result when the family finds the bear is as you would expect.
It’s been a staple in childhoods for a lot of years.I expected to love this book as it brought back memories and I still love the text.
The illustrations left no lasting impression on me from years ago.
Sadly to me the illustrations didn’t hold up well after 25 years.
Putting actions to the words made the story very interactive whilst also acting as a behaviour management strategy keeping the children focused and listening.I read this book to my Reception class the day before we went on a school trip to the 'Build a Bear Factory'.
The school trip was to be their first as a class and reading this book to them was a good starter activity before we discussed the next day's school trip and what the children would be doing.I followed up the reading of this book with the class the following week when they were asked to act out in small groups what they could remember from the story.
I remember reading this book many times to children in Nursery during my Teaching Assistant days.
I loved reading this book!
I like this book because it contains a lot of action words and the children would say the words out loud too and make the actions.
So for example the part in the book where the family are squelching through the mud, the children would say "squelch squelch!" and imagine they are doing the exact same by lifting their feet and legs in the air!
I think this book allows children to become apart of the story and to imagine how the characters must be feeling.
This is another classic book that many adults would remember from childhood.
This book could also be useul in Geography, as you follow the family's Bear hunt journey, this book could be a good resource for map planning.
Were going on a bear hunt could be used in Drama/PE/music lessons, It could be a very exciting way to draw the children in by role-playing the actions of walking through the mud for example.
The sound affects add a nice touch for impact.This book could be used, I would say from EYFS through to KS1.
I have always adored this book, particularly as a child. This story provides an opportunity for children to get fully involved with the events in the book. Uses lots of repetition and can almost be read through a song. The illustrations are simplistic and colourful and tell the story. This book can also develop children's problem-solving skills: we can't go over it, we can't go under it. What shall we do?Lots of descriptive words used as well as onomatopoeia. This story also works really well for children with SEN, particularly with the use of sensory props.
Trasc! o noua interjectie.Ursul pesterilor, specie disparuta. Pestera Ursilor.
How could I forget it…We’re going on a bear hunt.We’re going to catch a big one.What a beautiful day.We’re not scared!It is a fabulous light hearted story about a family who set out on a bear hunt.During their adventure the family encounter many different terrains along the way: long wavy grass, a deep cold river, thick oozy mud and many more.
The story is also backed up with some bright and beautiful illustrations to make the book even more enjoyable for children.
Captured oral traditions always disappoint me, as they never exactly match the story and wording you learnt - and so it is with We're Going on a Bear Hunt.
These elements were always critical to the success of the skit, and may be lost in this book form.Political correctness has modified the story over the years.
I suspect originally the story was actually about going on a hunt to kill bears.
I've seen some newer PC-gone-mad versions where the authors go a long way out of their way to state they are hunting for good photographs (and that no bear was harmed in the making of this story)...
'We're Going On a Bear Hunt'by Michael Rosen, practically sums up my reading experience in primary school.
This 'join all in' picture book, was read during a whole school assembly.
i remember the excitement myself and the other children would feel when asked, " what are they going on?" And we would all shout out, really loudly "A BEAR HUNT!!!".This happy go lucky picture book, allows the children to run free with their imagination.
the illustrations, easily tell the story, without the need of words, which is brilliant and means that this book adapts to the different learning capabilities of different children.i would recommend this book to everyone and anyone, such a great read.
Het liefst geef ik een kinderboek dat ik al gelezen (of herlezen) heb & dit verhaal geeft me nog steeds een warm gevoel.
Het is zeker grappiger om het te lezen als een volwassene, maar de spanning is nog steeds aanwezig en het rijmschema geeft het een geweldig ritme.
Zeker weten een aanrader, vooral om voor te lezen!EN: One of my friends recently had a baby, so of course I couldn't resist buying the little man a book :)I absolutely adored this story when I was younger (and so did my sister), so I figured it would make a great gift.
Helps children to learn rhythm and rhyme for phonological processing
This is a fun and a slightly scary book about a family hunting bears. Moral of the story: Don't hunt bears. Lol. I love the format. Each picture has a slide out feature that lets your child change the images! Very cool.
My favourite book as a child and is always exciting to read! I even read this book to children now!
A classic book, that never goes out of fashion! A must read with your class.Everyone will remember the words! - 'I'm not scared!'
I remember reading this to my kids. Loved it. I need to find it at the library and relive good times!
This book allows for a brilliant introduction for pupils in KS1, straight away they're hooked, in awe that a father would take his children on such an amazing outing and that also to meet a bear??
Patterns in the text allows children to anticipate what is about to come next, increasing their confidence and encouraging them to join in with the rest of the class.The pictures span across both pages of the book and are very descriptive.
I want to share and lend powerful ideas that I get from books I have read with pupils in the early years that can inspire people - they can in return inspire other young individuals.
I am reviewing, ‘We’re going on a bear hunt’, but in French.
We read this book with a year one class in English first, and then we read it in French.
Learning another language is all about the context; Setting the context so that there is something about it that is familiar to the pupils reading it.
They loved his books and they opened up a world of adventure for them.We're going on a bear hunt, is one of many books written by Michael Rosen.
These encourage children to use their own imagination to fill in the details of the settings.It tells the audience of an exciting adventure taken by a family to find an elusive bear.
This book also allows children to act out scenes which gives them physical actions to re-enforce what they are reading or listening to.
This book encourages children to sequence events and reverse the sequence of events.
This is one of those children's stories that is always a favourite and is read constantly.
The repetition in the book makes it very interactive and children can be encouraged to participate with sounds and actions.
The story starts with a family who decide to go on an outing in search of a big bear.
The family finally reach a cave where they come face to face with a bear.
The book can be used across the curriculum In English children can sequence the story and can be acted out in drama.
We’re Going on a Bear HuntMichael Rosen and Helen Oxenbury This recognised children’s classic was lent to me by an experienced Primary School teacher friend and then used as part of a Geography lecture on the Primary PGCE course I am studying at present, so I felt duty bound to review it.The illustrations are beautiful, with the characters almost jumping off the page, as well as clearly exhibiting a range of expressions and feelings.
The sound effect pages are my particular favourites and I can visualise a class of KS1 or early KS2 fully animated and vociferous at these points.
My Year 2 class loved creating their own version of this story in which they decided they wanted to go on a Dragon hunt instead and they thought of their own ideas for settings and sounds to go with each setting.
My nursery class loved creating actions for each sound and acting these out whilst I read the story to them.
It is a brilliant resource to use if you are in EYFS or KS1 and overall a just a lovely story to read to your class.
I absolutely love this book and will enjoy reading it to children in Early Years Foundation Stage and early Key Stage 1.
It is very interactive with lots of audience participation through making sounds and actions.
This makes it very memorable- I could still remember many of the words!
The only issue that may arise when reading this book to children is that the problem of the scary bear is not resolved as the children decide to run away.
A possible activity is for the children to sequence the environments the characters travelled through on a linear map by pegging large picture cards onto a rope.
