https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22477.The_Ideological_Origins_of_the_American_Revolution
Contrasts other histories of the American Revolution (from Charles Beard onwards) which posit that the AR was solely an economic struggle of the landed gentry against taxes.Textual analysis of pamphlets, which were popular during the pre-revolutionary era.
Too much power lead to a tyrannical system, and too much liberty leads to anarchy, so the proper balance is between them both.He also expands upon the early colonial belief in 'conspiracies' of corrupt ministers and the extractive colonial bureaucracy as a pretext for freedom.
In doing so he began to see connections, common sources, and particularly how the American colonial experience transformed a strand of British libertarian opposition thought into a uniquely American ideology that caused an intellectual revolution as to the basis for sovereignty, rights and representation and consent that led not only to the colonies declaring independence but shaped our constitution and led to the undermining of slavery, the disestablishment of religion and an entirely new and radical social relationship.
It was a bit surprising to learn the British common law tradition had a large part in this political thinking--but particularly surprising was learning the role of relatively obscure opposition Whig writers.
Bailyn has been synonymous with editing primary source documents from the American Revolution, but "Ideological Origins," marks one time where he takes his expertise on the subject of the Revolution and applies it to a more narrative text.
While McCullough was truly groundbreaking, Bernard Bailyn's brilliance in drawing connections between seemingly unrelated categories (women, slavery, economics), shows readers a side of the American Revolution they had not previously known.
McCullough stresses the narrative being told throughout his texts.
The difference between Bailyn, McCullough, and Ellis is the way Bailyn is able to explicitly note assumptions he carries throughout his texts.
One of the few best books I have ever read, and one of the few most influential in my life.
That's hardly a reason for anyone else to read it.
I can only say that everything I ever wanted to believe about the development of the Founders' political philosophy - about the nature of liberty, sovereignty and consent - is all supported in this book.
The book can't and isn't meant to adequately grapple with the stain of slavery and its shocking existence side-by-side with high-minded declarations of liberty.
For what the book does intend to grapple with, it's simply the best.
Having dredged through over 400 revolutionary era documents--diaries, correspondences, poetry, etc.--Bailyn found that the richest source of "explanatory" material (as in that material which explains the mindset of colonists just before the war) resided in the pamphlets of that period.
From these models, colonists pamphleted their struggle, organized their cause, and revised their ideas regarding government for a population highly suspect of power.
Check out Pualine Maier's American Scripture for a good infusion of much-needed narrative and close reading of the document behind Bailyn's latter ideological explorations.
But Maier's and Bailyn's books read together give a more complete picture, I think, than what either sketch out alone.
Most know the influence of Jefferson, Madison, Adams, Franklin, Hamilton, Paine, etc.; however, others published their sermons, rants, commentaries, and analyses that continued the revolutionary theme that many of the known writers were artfully addressing.
Bailyn notes that these writers, while prolific, lacked tact and artful argumentation, therefore, their writings were relegated to the unforgotten stacks of revolutionary literature.
Unfortunately, as Bailyn attempts to shine the light on these crude, yet insightful writers, he continues to trumpet the major thinkers of the day -- seeing to it that the heralded writers of the Revolution remain so.
I'm mostly interested into what extent are these ideologies are replicated in today's political spectrum, all in my quest to understand those strange people on the other side of the political divide and the even stranger things that they think. I heard about this book via the JuntoCast podcast:  The JuntoCast, Episode 12  (iTunes).
It is the book that made me love history. I return to it every year or two to remind myself that not all history must be badly written and that there exist beautiful and big things in one digestable package.
In order to prove his thesis, Bailyn organizes the book into six topically organized chapters.In “The Literature of Revolution” Bailyn explains the basis for his research by introducing the pamphlets that were passed through society to argue ideas.
“The Contagion of Liberty” ends the book by explaining the issues that they newly liberated people had to deal with including: slavery, religion, and respect of supposed superiors.Bailyn’s book is known as a classical study of the American Revolution and he does an excellent job of proving his thesis with the use of pamphlets extensively as primary sources.
Bernard Bailyn breaks from the Charles and Mary Beard economic interpretation of the Revolution and instead claims, “The American Revolution was above all else an ideological, constitutional, political struggle and not primarily a controversy between social groups undertaken to force changes in the organization of the society or the economy” (vi).
This is the Neo-Whig approach to the Revolution: Patriots really cared about political ideas of liberty, and were not acting simply to defend their own economic self-interests as wealthy planters and merchants.
Bailyn contrasts early republicans who feared that the first American Revolution would inspire endless revolutions with republicans who believed America would achieve a shining future.
The Power Of Ideas In Forming America"Why did the American colonies declare their Independence from Great Britain?Bernard Baylin's classic study, "The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution" argues that American Independence had its roots in the power of ideas -- of a rethinking of the proper role of government and a willingness to put thought into action with what became the uniquely American combination of idealism and realism.
The immediate source of the ideas which became America was in dissenting political thought in Great Britain in the later Seventeenth and Early Eighteenth Century following the Glorious Revolution.
In the South there was at least a general acquiescence in the Congress' inclusion of the slave trade in the nonimportation program and satisfaction on the part of many when in April 1776 Congress fulfilled its earlier pledge and voted 'that no slaves be imported into any of the thirteen colonies.'"The institution of chattel slavery was not dead, even in the North, nor would it be for many years to come; critics of the Declaration of Independence would continue to join with Thomas Hutchinson in condemning the apparent hypocrisy of a people who declared that all men were created equal, endowed with inalienable rights, and yet deprived 'more than an hundred thousand Africans of their rights to liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and in some degree to their lives.' But it had been subjected to severe pressure as a result of the extension of Revolutionary ideas, and it bore the marks ever after.
If you're a true history buff, you have read this book. Not exactly an easy read, but well worth it in the end. I would not recommend it if you aren't truly very interested in the early history of the USA.
Excellent for understanding the political background of the American Revolution. What influences shaped the American colonists' rebellion and formation of new governments are clearly explained. A classic in American revolutionary studies
Honestly, I love love love history, but history textbooks are painful.
It is in the pre-Independence pamphlet literature that he finds the wellspring of the Revolution's ideological creativity.Sources and TraditionsThough the colonists peppered their pamphlets with allusions to classical antiquity, these allusions primarily served as window dressing and in the instance they were used strategically Bailyn is impressed by the selectivity and narrowness of the way in which they were used.
Since there are already good reviews posted about this particular book, I hope my comparative approach-which does not attempt a detailed synopsis of Bailyn's arguments-offers something different and helpful to the reader.1) Bailyn elaborates the powerful influence of "country opposition", radical whig thinking on the revolutionary generation.
Wood, though he does weave "country opposition" thinking into his account, definitely elaborates, focuses upon, and valorizes a definite interpretation of "republicanism."2) For Bailyn, the revolutionary generation, influenced heavily by country opposition thinking and other sources such as Lockean philosophy, saw themselves as striving to protect the individual from the state.
As for plausibility, Wood's communitarian reading of the revolutionary generation presented in The Creation of the American Republic seems unconvincing.
Anyone who is familiar with Bailyn's work as a whole will know that he is going to discuss something of importance that other historical presentations ignore and that the study is going to be intense and in-depth and that it will show a remarkable degree of evenhandedness in its approach, and that will likely be enough for those who are fond of his writing to explore this volume, which won a well-deserved Pulitzer Prize as well as a Bancroft Prize in 1968.The structure of this book is straightforward, all the more stark in pointing out the immensely important nature of its contents for understanding the political history of the American Revolutionary generation.
A bit academic (ha!) but insightful and profound. Many of the issues we face today we given voice to more than 250 years ago
For example, it might seem outrageous today that the revolutionaries accused the British of wanting to reduce them to slavery, but according to their much more expansive definition of slavery (pretty much any situation where one person exhibits arbitrary power over another, this actually made sense at the time.Bailyn shows how the revolution transformed the heritage of British political thought into a uniquely American creation.
This meant that the British believed the Americans were being represented even if they had no direct representatives.
Bailyn is simply outstanding at explaining these kinds of intellectual transformations.While the ideas is this book are interesting, it's somewhat hard to follow and large sections of it are quite dry.
No doubts, Bailyn is one of them, and this makes the book a great source to grasp the American Revolution.
To read, evaluate, analyze many pamphlets and explaining the revolution successfully in this context are really what Bailyn does.Since Beard's "An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the United States", there has been a serious historiographical debate: Did the American Revolution motivated mainly by economic reasons?
Like the first generation of American historians, Bailyn also says "no".
Those who are interested in early American history and want to grasp American Revolution properly, should read this book.
Wood says "The Revolution, like the whole of American history, is not a simple morality play".
I feel that I can now grasp what they meant when they used words like, Power, liberty, taxation, representation, democracy, or establishment--words that have evolved and changed in meaning in the past two-hundred years.I think the most important lesson that I am taking from this book is that the circumstances that brought about the revolution are not necessarily unique.
This book makes little to no mention of rights of women, of non-Christians, or most especially of the minority groups that now make up a large majority of the voting population like the Native American or African Americans--people who were explicitly denied their suffrage in the Founding Fathers' view of liberty.
Reading this took 12 years off my life but I did laugh twice at something foolish John Adams did so uhhhhhhh all comes out in the wash I guess
Wood, in the Introduction to his book, The Idea of America (Penguin, 2011), in the first half of the Twentieth Century, progressive historians taught that early American history was primarily to be understood in economic terms, with Charles Beard's book, An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution, forming the lynchpin for this point of view.
This progressive view, with its economic interpretation, began to be debunked in the second half of the Twentieth Century, as historians came to better understand the political ideals which motivated the revolution, and see the legitimacy and sincerity with which those views were held, for their own sake, and not merely as cover for a fight about economic self-interest.
This one is classic for a reason -- its a great summation of the republican ideology that likely played a large role in the thinking of the American Revolution.
Bailyn outlines the influence of writers like Gordon and Trenchard in creating a republican ideology that was fearful of conspiracy, suspicious of centralized power, valued localism, glorified agrarian lifestyles, hated direct taxation and standing armies.
When the coersive acts and other acts of Parliament appeared, they triggered this switchboard, since in the minds of colonists, these acts violated the ideology that was precious to them.Recent scholarship has shown some clarifications of Bailyn's ideas, but this is still an important and influential text to read, especially regarding the intellectual history of early america.
However this book, slow going as it was at times, was a revelation.
I learned something about our past and present on almost every page.
As a longtime student of our country, the development of our system of government and the towering personalities that guided and informed our experiment in self government, I was delighted to learn how hundreds of writes, commentators, religious leaders and others contributed to the intense intellectual and spiritual effort that determined how we arrived at the miracle of our being.
I work in Washington, DC, close to the Smithsonian, and during lunch would browse through the bookstore of the American History Museum.
Not long out of college and having only a high school knowledge of the Revolution, I had decided I needed to learn more, and this looked to be a good place to start.
The reasons behind the Revolution seemed so cut and dried when in school, not very complex, but this book revealed how rich, complex, and multi-faceted the story really is, and turned what was initially more of a felt responsibility into a now life-long fascination with this topic.
Bailyn thoroughly defends his thesis that the American revolutionary leaders shared a common set of assumptions drawn from the Whig tradition adapted to the American context and reshaped by the tensions with the British government.
It was through this tradition that they interpreted the other ideas that they used, such as classical republicanism.
In the postscript, Bailyn also shows how both the Federalists and anti-Federalists drew on the same ideas while reaching different conclusions about the best form of government for the United States.
Perhaps Bailyn's most impressive achievement is that he explains it all so clearly in a way that I think would be quite accessible to an interested reader without academic training in history.
The current fervor surrounding the "Founding Fathers" and the alleged original understanding of the American Revolutionaries can be understood much better after reading this book.
Essentially, Bailyn points out that, like what John Merriman refers to as the "Enlightenment Hacks" of early modern Europe, the American Revolution owes a great deal to less-celebrated, fringe intellectuals who were often somewhat manipulated in the service of a larger agenda.
Issues of principle are important, but so is an understanding of the practical realities that existed at the time of the Revolution and how those considerations affected the intellectual discourse.
This book provides that understanding.
It was really lyrical and fascinating in some places, but in others I felt I was banging my head against a brick wall.
Oh Bernard, the first horrible pamphlet chapter has got to be rewritten.
In some places they take up half the page!
Still, there was much to be gleaned from these pages and follows the thought process of the colonial revolutionaries quite well.
I just can't decide whether I sell the book back to the campus bookstore or hang onto it.
If I think about the first chapter though, this book will be first in line for the selling...
