https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151723.The_Skystone
The story is somewhat like Bernard Cornwell's The Winter King in that it's told through the POV of an older guy reminiscing about his life.
Throughout the course of the story he comes to identify more as a Briton than a Roman, so Varrus and his former general start to form a new government and chain of events that will lead to King Arthur...I'm used to reading stories in this time period through the Celtic perspective, so it was interesting to try to like some of the invading Roman soldiers (or at least put myself in their shoes).
And in the colony of Britannia, two ageing soldiers plan for the future in the event of the withdrawal of the legions and what they perceive as the end of the world.The Skystone is the first book in a series that’s much more historical fiction than fantasy, even though I found it on the fantasy shelves of a Washington bookstore.
Without any disrespect meant to TV shows, that made it rather boring.Overall, though, this is an excellent introduction to a new view on Arthurian legend, and the series as a whole is a marvellously entertaining read.
I first heard about Jack Whyte's series through another favorite author of mine, Diana Gabaldon.
We all know the story, it's been done to death, and it bores me.
But I gave it a try anyway, and I'm so glad I did.This isn't the legend of King Arthur as you know it - Whyte has written it as it would have actually happened.
The story starts by introducing us to two Roman soliders who, we come to find out, are Arthur's ancestors.
A plan like Caius Brittanicus' would take time, and it would take the loyalty of a man like Publius Varrus and the skill of them both to pull it off, but it couldn't happen overnight, and Whyte never lets it.What The Skystone does well is to make a beginning, to set the stage, to get us ready for everything that is to come so very slowly.
*review for the entire Camulod ChroniclesIf you asked me what my favorite series was as a 6th grader my answer would have been the original Shannara trilogy.
No other author has come close to making me feel the loss of a fictional character compared to those who passed beyond the mortal realm along my journey through Camulod.This series is a re-imagining of the Arthurian Saga that will stand the test of time; told in such a way that the reader begins to believe that everything within this tale actually happened in ages past.Did Camelot ever exist?
There were some pretty good action scenes where I felt like we were getting rolling and then it would slow down again to a descriptive, slow pace.
Whyte's descriptive style continued on into the sex scenes (and the one flirtatious scene I read) and I completely felt like I was literally thrust into the author's own personal fantasies.
I'm not okay with reading other people's indulgent fantasies though.
After having read 3 such scenes up to just over the 1/2 way point, I decided to toss the book and give it what I feel is a fair rating.
I always try and say something semi constructive in a review, but there really isn't anything I can say that hasn't already been said by fellow Goodreads member, Tasha (who read Skystone at the same time as me).So, I am going to take the cop out option and direct you there as I echo her sentiments...
http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/......
and if you do not want to read her review, then here you go.The sex and the timing of the sex was a big joke, the flow was uninspiring, the writing for me was a trial and tribulation.
I gave up on this book just passed halfway.
This is one of my favorite series however I wouldn't recommend it for everyone.
Most highly I recommend it to those who like an in depth and meandering plot.
THE SKYSTONE, like the rest of this series, takes it's time and this style isn't for everyone.
For instance, this series is a historical take on the legend of King Arthur and this book takes place three generations before Arthur is born.
They made me feel uncomfortable and seemed out of place.If your looking for an action packed, historical fiction take on the legend of Arthur read the Winter King by Bernard Cornwell.
I would argue that the the reason this story has been told over and over again is that we love the whole idea, that for one bright shining moment there was a real prince and princess who defeated the Saxon horde and granted peace and prosperity to their kingdom.
The reason that this story can be told in so many ways is that the bare bones of the legend comes from Thomas Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur, and it leaved much to be explained.
That said - I love this subject and Whyte has written an excellent group of books that I highly recommend.
WOW!This "historical" novel set in Britain towards the end of the Roman Empire is utterly FANTASTIC!
His grandfather created a special sword and a special dagger from the metal smelted from a skystone (obviously a meteorite)..
Brittanicus sees the Roman Empire is drawing to an end.
About the time that I decided it was an author's exercise in mental masturbation and an attempt to titilate the reader he brought the sexual details/episode into the story in a way that made me sit up and take notice.
I really did not care for the beginning section of the book.
The story is told as the memories of Publius Varrus, a former Roman soldier of noble blood who is also a blacksmith.
Much of it concerns his relationship with Caius Brittanicus, an even higher noble who is his military commander for years and becomes a very close friend.
The title comes from a rock which fell to earth thirty years prior from which Varrus' grandfather made him a dagger of an unknown, extremely hard metal.
Both Britannicus and Varrus become obsessed with the hunt for more of these stones.
Overall, an excellent story.
I think I gave this three stars back when I first started on goodreads, and I remembered it fondly enough to go ahead and download it from audible, thinking it would be a nice way to pass the time on my long commute.
For some reason I could cope with homophobia better a decade or more ago, but not today.
All the homophobia did, and it is an underlying current throughout these books, was piss me off and make me sad.
So I will not be finishing Skystone this time through.
Plot: 2 (strong opening leads nowhere)Characters: 4 (generic and interchangeable)Accuracy: 0 (gets almost every fact wrong)I thought this book started out well.
The third section is just plain boring.It has to be said that this book is, despite its pretensions to offer a historical version of King Arthur, basically a Fantasy novel.
He clearly read a book on the Roman legions (probably Parker’s 1928 one), decided it was identical to modern army units under different names (he actually states this), and then called it a day.
A Fantasy-attuned audience that doesn’t mind a very small bit of history thrown in may find this book somewhat entertaining.
The story begins in the final days of the Roman Empire in Briton (~375 AD – 425 AD) and involves several flashback sequences that help establish the two major characters for the novel, Publius Varrus and Caius Brittanicus, both solid Roman soldiers.
By the end of the book we get to experience even larger issues as we live through what amounts to the abandonment of Briton by the Roman Empire, just after the overrunning of Hadrian’s Wall and the final shake-up of emperors.The story is told from Publius’ first person POV as he transforms his life from soldier to blacksmith.
No magic what-so-ever in this book.I suspect this entire series will be a fascinating read.
Also, from a purely selfish point of view, the characters visit and spend a little time in Deva (modern day Chester, my hometown) yet for no reason, it is left off the illustrative map at the front, even though the Isle Of Man and countless other places the characters don't visit are clearly marked...Overall, an okay, adequate start to a series that at least hasn't put me off a casual interest in seeing where the next book takes us.
The Skystone deposits the reader in pre-Arthurian Great Britain smack dab during the time of the waning Roman occupation.
The account of Roman warfare, rule and order is impressive.
In addition, I felt like an observer during the descriptions of iron-smelting and smith-ing.
I liked this book for the historical angle and the story was good.
Its probably getting a bigger knock than it should with my giving it 3 stars because it is following a couple of books that were exceptional.
Most of the book read well, but I felt that there were patches of lumpiness.
My guess, these weren't the only way to verbally assault a man of this time period.
I can't remember reading a more entertaining and interesting work of historical fiction than The Camulod Chronicles.
The depiction of life in post-Roman Britain is fascinating and frequently horrifying.
The chaos that resulted from the withdraw of the Roman legions from Britain as the Roman Empire collapsed was horrific.
The Britons of Camulod saw the collapse of civilization coming and prepared for it, strengthening their hilltop fortress and training all the men they could recruit into thier private army to defend their way of life.
I HIGHLY recommend this series to all who enjoy historical fiction, or just a terrific read.
Before I tell you anything else, allow me to say that there are 9 books in this series and I read ALL 9 of them in just under one month!
This series brilliantly takes on the Arthur Legend via the end of Roman Empire's presence in Britain.
Jack Whyte, like Bernard Cornwell, is another one of those fiction writers who really knows his ancient British and Roman history.
Although it is fiction, the books are peppered with real people, real places and real battles.
Arthur isn't even introduced to us until several books down the road.
An amazing take on the Arthurian legends!
Starting about 3 generations BEFORE Arthur the writer sets the stage for the downfall of the Roman Empire and the withdrawl from England of all support from Rome.The author does a wonderful job of stitching together various aspects of the Arthur legend's iconic pieces: Excalibur, The Lady of the Lake, Uther Pendragon, Merlyn, etc...
Somewhat overly descriptive in spots, but not so much so to completely detract from the enjoyment of the books.Character development is done very well and with depth of being and humor.
You actually start to care about the characters and their world.Again...
Amazing!
Although this review is placed with The Skystone, It's really a review of all the Camulod Chronicles books, which I've positively devoured.Whyte's portrayal of the possible history and politics of Britain after the withdrawal of the Romans is some of the best historical fiction I've read.
If there were more great historical fiction writers like Whyte teaching students a thing or two about history (both real, and possible), students would study history in much greater detail.
If you're a fan of swords-and-sorcery fiction, or of historical fiction, the Camulod Chronicles should be on your must-read list.
I dithered around with this and almost didn't read it - and it was a wonderful story, fast moving and exciting. Several more volumes to go.....that makes me a very happy bunny!In fact, I liked it so much that I was surprised to see comments in reviews about this being a slow-moving story (I have come back to add this). Isn't it fascinating how very differently people experience the same writer? Is that down to what a person's expectations are - especially in view of this being a retelling of a long-told myth?
My likes of   were varied. Thoroughly enjoyed the characters and action segments but found several of the everyday events and locations over-descriptive and tedious. Still an above average tale and a worthy addition to anyone's Historical Fiction library. Also loved the ending!
I've always been a fan of historical fiction. Authors like Wilbur Smith entertain while providing a historical narrative. Jack Whyte is really good at this craft. I read his William Wallace, Robert the Bruce series which was excellent. This book tells the story of the end of the Roman rule in Britain.It is told quickly, yet descriptively. A great read and for people that enjoy historic fiction, fantastic!
This is the driest thing I've read in ages.
Ages.
It has a very vague semblance of plot that is soooo drawn out and slow; nearly absent to the point where you're questioning if any of this is leading anywhere.
As a result, a great deal of scenes are skipable since they don't add anything to the meager plot.
The writing itself is super dull, except for the bizarrely self indulgent sex scenes that, to no one's surprise, add nothing to the plot and merely serve to prove that this was written by a Generic White Guy™.
Book one of a fascinating series that begins prior to the time of King Arthur. With vivid scenes of everything from home life to battle and many things in between it's a great look at what life must've been like in early Britain.
An interesting portrayal of Roman Britian and the great grandfathers of King Arthur.
It is a novel about Arthur's forebears, the Briton-Romans who help forge the legends that Arthur is known for without ever realising their importance.The Skystone is a book that is being told from the perspective of an old Roman soldier who is penning the events from his humble origins as a soldier, until more serious events later on when he is forced to retire from military life.
The skystone (or at least the story behind it) is very important in understanding the later legends of King Arthur, his dazzling court, and the very mystery of this man.It sure opens up the mystery surrounding the famed sword Excalibur and the Lady of the Lake, that's for sure.I am very glad that I made the mistake of purchasing this book from the shop.
I absolutely love the two main male characters (Caius and Plubius).
This book absolutely sucks you in, even on the second time reading it.
This book is half historical fiction and half fantasy.
It shows how Caius and Plubius meet, which is quite a funny story, it shows their military time together and it shows the beginning of the colony which will eventually become Camuloud.
This was my second reading of the book and it was every bit as amazing as the first time around.
I highly recommend this to historical fiction and fantasy readers.
Too many irrelevant details that might have become relevant, or might not have.I've been told that it 'picks up' as you move through it, but there are too many other good books out there for me to force my way through this one.Edit:Trying to finish it.
Let's see if there's anything compelling enough that I might start the second one...Edit:If you like the Arthurian legend, this series adds a strong historical twist: the main character is a Roman in the legions occupying Britain during the fall of the empire.
I did and it ended well enough that I've started the second book in the series.
The characters are endearing, and the front story is interesting and engaging.
I enjoyed watching the story unfold, but I didn't utter, "Oh, I didn't see that coming" under my breath too many times.The more engaging part of the book for me was the back story.
I did a reasonable amount of wiki-fu while reading the book, and it appears to be historically accurate enough that I probably haven't up learning anything blatantly incorrect along the way.
