https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/115164.Manifestoes_of_Surrealism
It is strange, it is disturbing, it is vivid imagination at its eloquent best!"I believe in the future resolution of these two states, dream and reality, which are seemingly so contradictory, into a kind of absolute reality, a surreality, if one may so speak.
It is in quest of this surreality that I am going..."The first manifesto, published in 1924, gives a comprehensive outline of the Surrealist agenda.
To open up the vaults of the unconscious, the Surrealist surrenders complete control over his conscious thought and eases himself into a trance-like state.
Surrealism, as explained by Andre Breton is simply the merging of dreams with reality, specifically in art but also in all aspects of life imagination is to be a person’s greatest quality.
Breton rejects mediocrity and conformity in art which is interesting considering he was part of a movement and published a manifesto proclaiming surrealism was true art, this would simply be conformity if anyone who read this agreed with the manifesto.
I was thinking that video games, music, the internet, modernism and postmodern literature, and much of TV and film had incorporated surrealism but I was wrong.
I am more interested in the incorporation of surrealistic elements in contemporary art.
مانيفست سوررئاليسم رو آندره برتون نوشته.
قشنگ نوشته شده.
شورانگيزه و يه سخنرانى تمام عياره.
مخصوصا كه شوخ طبعى و بامزه بازى هم درش هست.
البته نتونست منو سوررئاليست كنه ولى از خوندنش لذت بردم.
صادقانه بگم برتون اينو خيلى از رمانش ناديا بهتر نوشته.
مخصوصا شروع خيلى زيبا و نفس گيرى داره.
هم از خوندنش لذت بردم و هم خيلى در مورد سوررئاليسم چيز يادم داد.
چيزهايى كه نمى دونستم رو از دست اولترين منبعش گرفتم.
مثلا تاثير انكارناپذير فرويد روى پديدآورنده هاى اين جنبش.
مثال هم مياره براى متون سوررئاليستى و اينش خيلى خوبه.
كوتاهم هست.
مى شه خوند.
There are many contemporary artists that misunderstand surrealism as much as they do with romanticism. A lot of them incorporate styles from recollected inpressions but miss the intention/direction of these movements.
Reading Breton is having a one-sided conversation with talented yet egotistical and elitist close friend. It is a very interesting read.
striking a spark from two images; longer spark from rarer gases gives greater fugue "desired suddenness from certain associations" (41, first Manifesto)series of events run parallel to real events; our ideals & expectations & revisions as we live"In the final analysis, it's not such a bad thing for these images to upset the mind, for to upset the mind is to put it in the wrong." (39)"Surrealism, such as I conceive of it, asserts our complete nonconformism clearly enough so that there can be no question of translating it, at the trial of the real world, as evidence for the defense.
Lu le Manifeste du Surréalisme de 1924: intéressant, bien que j'aie parfois eu l'impression qu'il laissait aller sa pensée et en perdait quelque peu le fil de son exposé auquel il se raccrochait ensuite tant bien que mal.
J'ai surtout apprécié lire la façon dont il a "découvert" l'écriture automatique et ses conseils à ceux qui voudraient s'y essayer.
Ce qui m'a déplu, surtout au début, est son ton de "juge" face à l'attitude réaliste: j'ai lu plusieurs manifestes et, même en s'opposant à tel ou tel courant, les auteurs n'ont pas toujours ce ton prétentieux et désagréable.
Intéressant, mais un peu décousu par moments.
Nowhere near the transcendence of Nadja, this is something best left to historical researchers of surrealism. I'd read the first manifesto before, and it was indeed the sort of thing that gets you thinking, but the rest was mostly dull. Which is a shame, given that some of the high-water marks of literature and the visual arts have been accomplished under these banners. Oh, and as for the long prose-y- poem-y thingy in the middle, "Soluble Fish," it starts off interesting, but as it goes on it draaaaaaaaaaaaags.
I have been rereading this with my students and I find much to enjoy here. Sometimes Breton is a blowhard, sure, but isn't that part of the pleasure? The "Before/After" section is priceless in that regard. But sometimes Breton speaks good sense, as when he defends the free practice of art as against ideology to a conference of the communist party.
verbose, confusing, but enjoyable.
These manifestos lay out the politics of the movement better than any of Breton's interpreters, who keep proliferating the cliched that he was "the pop of surrealism."
Ajatuksen vapaus, lapsen mieli, unet, logiikan ja kausaliteettien toissijaisuus, arkirealismin pintapuolisuus, Freud, kuvaileva kirjallisuus on blaah.
Alkoi kirjallisena liikkeenä."Kun ihminen lakkaa nukkumasta, hän on ennen muuta muistinsa leikkikalu..."Unet leikkikenttiä ihmisen vapautumiseen, tosiasioiksi määritellyt asiat rajoittavat (ovat vain määrittelyjä, sopimuksia).
Puhdas psyykkinen automatismi, jonka avulla koetetaan ilmaista suullisesti tai kirjoittamalla tai millä muulla tavalla tahansa ajatuksen todellinen toiminta.
Ajatuksen sanelua vailla mitään järjen valvontaa, vailla esteettistä ja moraalista kannanottoa."Automaatiokirjoitustekniikat ja kahden toisilleen vieraiden elementtien yhdistäminen.
Tämä näennäisesti erilaisten yhdistäminen tuo esille kuvan välähdyksen.
Kuvan.
Surrealismin perustana on usko tiettyjen, tähän saakka laiminlyötyjen assosiaatiomuotojen ylempään todellisuuteen, unen kaikkivaltiuteen, ajatuksen pyyteettömään leikkiin.
Rei da controvérsia. Fundador da oposição artistica. Anti-conservador. Moderno. Autêntico. Desafiante. O manifesto do surrealismo e todos os outros documentos que precederam o texto principal, desde as cartas até a posição politica do surrealismo, são, para mim, o genesis da criação artistica que antagonizou o romantismo e realismo da sociedade que se deixava cegar por criações de temas conservadores. O surrealismo instalou-se na modernidade após a fusão com Sigmund Freud na teoria do inconsciente. Breton foi, e ainda o é, brilhante e revolucionário.
Insane. Changed my brain chemistry. Bought a first Edition!
3.5
In "On Surrealism in its Living Works," Breton writes how Surrealism seeks "nothing less than the rediscovery of the secret of a language whose elements would then cease to float like jetsam on the surface of a dead sea.To do this it [is] essential to wrest these elements away from their increasingly narrow utilitarian usage, this being the only way to emancipate them and restore all their power" (297).
Surrealism seeks to reopen this potentiality of language through poetry, the art of life - of creation and destruction that brings forth.The work of Surrealism seeks to open possibility unto its limits, unto the impossible.
Surrealism is an unrelenting revolt against a civilization that reduces all human aspiration to market values, religious impostures, universal boredom and misery.
More specifically, surrealism aims to reduce the contradictions between sleeping and waking, dreaming and action, reason and madness, the conscious and the unconscious, the individual and society, the subjective and the objective.
Aggressive and unrelenting, surrealism is a total revolt, and more importantly, a way of life.
Breton's manifestoes will forever remain unparalleled, aiming at no less than the total transformation of man and the word.
The Manifestoes of Surrealism are holy documents for initiate.
We all know, in fact, that the insane owe their incarceration to a tiny number of legally reprehensible acts and that, were it not for these acts their freedom (or what we see as their freedom) would not be threatened.
I am willing to admit that they are, to some degree, victims of their imagination, in that it induces them not to pay attention to certain rules – outside of which the species feels threatened – which we are all supposed to know and respect.
Alors que l’immédiat artistique atteint son paroxysme lorsque s’impose magistralement la réalité d’une image originale qu’un individu exceptionnel parvient à extérioriser dans une extase géniale, l’immédiat surréaliste est une fuite rageuse de la réalité qui revendique aussi bien le rêve : « L’homme, ce rêveur définitif, de jour en jour plus mécontent de son sort » (p.11), que la destruction violente et gratuite en tant que mode d’existence : « L’acte surréaliste le plus simple consiste, revolvers aux poings, à descendre dans la rue et à tirer au hasard, tant qu’on peut, dans la foule » (p.78) et sa réflexion ne se fera jamais autrement qu’en tant que réaction contre les critiques externes, les courants de pensées concurrents et les défections.
But this was supposed to be a Manifesto, not a rant.
However, it's mostly been bastardized by people who think Surrealism equates to unrealism rather than, with the intended associations and effects, superrealism (i.e. more than real).
But I suppose all manifestoes become bastardized at one point or another, so we shouldn't blame you for that.
And while Giorgio de Chirico eschewed your labels, in my outsider opinion (I'd now align myself as more an admirer of the short-lived Scuola Metafisica movement) you never did improve upon his foundations for your aesthetic, as you seemed to intend.
بخش هایی از این کتاب سال ها پیش توسط رضا سید حسینی به فارسی ترجمه شده است..تا چند روز پیش (سپتامبر 2007) نمی دانستم که این کتاب به تمامی توسط عبدالله کوثری ترجمه شده.
این سرگذشت سوررئالیسم از 1919 به بعد، به زبان یکی از بنیان گذاران این مکتب است و کار عبدالله کوثری در ترجمه ی اثر قابل ستایش است.
خواندن سرگذشت نیم قرن جنبش سوررئالیسم و فراز و نشیب هایش از زبان آندره برتون و با ترجمه ی کوثری، دریچه ی تازه ای بود به تاریخ این مکتب که به زبان بسیار ساده و روشن بیان شده است.
This greatly colored my perception of art. The best art manifesto I've ever read.(Oddly, the surrealist concept seems to work in many of the visual fields, but not lit. God, did it fail in writing. Doesn't hold up well in narrative.)Also, oddly, I felt that the first fully-realized surrealist film came decades later, and was not generally seen as part of the movement, but in my opinion, that's what it was at heart: Baz Luhrmann's "Moulin Rouge!" This is what Dali and Bunel were shooting for, never quite hit.
Already the title obstructs me. That inevitably returns to Marx and manifesto of the Communist party. The general tone is of the same order. The proximity of surrealist with the Russian revolution is known.I read it at the high school. Immediately surrealism appealed to me but I did not understand why its emblême was a dusty text, tedious and bureaucratic. The movement was not long in bursting in vaults which were hated and excommunicated. Thus as opposed to what, I think that the interest of the book is anecdotic.
the first one is brilliantthe second one refines this brilliance to some degree but is also intellectually bogged down by a lot of invective about people Breton got into fights with. less a refining than a defense of his initial ideas"soluble fish" has a passing beauty to it but is impossible to finishthe third one dips into conspiracy theorist rangeif breton's "manifestoes" proves anything above all else, it's that any idea, no matter how interesting, becomes incredibly uninteresting upon contact with marxist materialism
Wie bei (fast) jeder vorhergehenden Unilektüre, hab ich auch dieses Werk (noch) nicht ganz gelesen.Es war ein wenig mühsam und entweder weicht mein Hirn langsam auf oder der Mensch drückt sich zu kompliziert aus. Vieles hab ich irgendwie nicht richtig erfassen können und somit nicht verstehen können. Für meine Hausarbeit werde ich aber meine Nase nochmal in das Buch stecken müssen. Aber erstmal gönn ich mir ein paar Tage Weihnachtsferien ohne Unikram :)
A necessary read for those interested in Surrealism. There is just as much clear and beautiful writing in this book as there are confusing paragraph long sentences. Brenton's mind is quite evidently a fascinating place. Worth sorting out what is relevant to today versus what mattered in precisely the years he wrote to/about.
Le Manifeste du surréalisme de 1924 est très intéressant pour comprendre l'origine du mouvement et de sa création. Néanmoins, c'est un mouvement qui a connu aussi de nombreuses dissensions, ce qui se ressent dans le Manifeste du surréalisme de 1930 avec les critiques de Breton contre les artistes qui se sont positionnés en rupture.
Whether Breton is to receive the largest thanks or not, due to a microcosm of zeitgeist, Surrealism has a name, a credo, edicts, catalogued respiration, and beautiful folly. May yachts grow complex, adulterous, arch, and silly personalities as we inaugurate the next 1,326 years in random order. Thanks!
Ce livre est, à coup sûr, le livre le plus décevant que j'ai jamais lu.André Breton y explique finalement fort peu la théorie du surréalisme, et la diversité de ses pratiques. Il se contente de formuler dans ses deux manifestes un ramassis de détails, de conflits de personne et de basses informations. Ceci sans compter les notes de bas de page, d'une longueur proprement interminable.
addressed only as Goku in mute swans are not native to the Kromme Rijn (Crooked Rhine) branches off, and an internet tutoring utility for learning and practicing its feminine form and everything else.
