https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93575.Gaudy_Night
The fun and thoughtful discussion Dorothy Sayers presents in Gaudy Night on the topic of women being intelligent humans in their own right was vindicating and cathartic for me to read.
I don't even usually like mysteries, and I don't have a sense of suspense, so it is surprising how much I love this book, but that's probably why the social aspect was more striking to me.I’m not fully with her in her use of classical quotations, which I take as an Oxford thing.
Book Review   4 of 5 stars to Gaudy Night by Dorothy L. Sayers, a strong and talented writer of detective mysteries in their Golden Age of publication. This was truly an excellent book. Upon finishing my third year at college, I'd taken all the required courses and a variety of electives to complete my double majors. My advisors and professors, knowing I had an affinity for reading and writing mystery stories, encouraged me to do an independent study on this era of literature; but they also to
Sayers, a strong and talented writer of detective mysteries in their Golden Age of publication.
My advisors and professors, knowing I had an affinity for reading and writing mystery stories, encouraged me to do an independent study on this era of literature; but they also told me I wouldn't be allowed to select any of the books I had to read.
she was a big Dorothy Sayers fan and thought this was the author's most popular book.
Sayers helped pave the way for many future female authors of detective stories.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
The Dean asks if Harriet Vane has any idea what it might be about.Harriet responds that she will return to the College and see if she can do anything to help.This is where we receive a taste of academic life that would be nostalgic for those who had gone to University, and like entering a new and fascinating world for those who had not gone to University.
After a few more frightening incidents, Harriet decides she can’t do this alone and persuades the Dean to allow her to contact her “detecting friend” for help.I love it when these books include both Lord Peter and Harriet Vane.
Harriet wants to stop hurting, and she thinks she knows how.If only one could come back to this quiet place where only intellectual achievement counted, if one could work here steadily and obscurely at some close-knit piece of reasoning, undistracted and uncorrupted .
The snag about it is the practical difficulty, so to speak, of not existing.” They both know how awful love can be when it is all heart or all brain, when it presses and demands and makes sacrifices and then says “now what will you do for me in return?” They are both just growing into the awareness that there is another way.I think, above all, the thing I admire most in this book is the way it practices what it preaches.
I have always heard that “Gaudy Night” was her best novel and so I was really intrigued to read this book and was interested to see how the character of Harriet Vane would develop.
Harriet always loved her time at Oxford, but was nervous about returning, especially after events covered in a previous book, where she was accused of killing a former lover.
Likewise, this is the novel where the relationship between Harriet and Peter changes, which is obviously especially interesting if you have followed the books in order.
But it’s Havers I feel sorry for – she really deserves better.*If you believe, as I do, that George’s apparent infatuation with her idealized aristocrat ultimately weakens the Havers-Linley stories, then what to make of the hero-worship that permeates the entire Peter Wimsey series?
After all, isn’t Harriet Vane just an obvious stand-in for her creator, making Lord Peter nothing more than a vehicle for the vicarious fulfilment of Dorothy L.
And while I personally find it hard to take Lord Peter seriously, at least he has the virtue of being vaguely amusing, and nowhere near the kind of pompous ass that Inspector Linley manages to be.
I learnt a lot about Oxford life - there is really nothing with which to compare it in NZ, and what little I knew of it previously came from Morse.But this seemed to be an exceedingly long book.
Somewhere I read that Sayers is known for her attention to detail.
In Gaudy Night I think she has given it just a little too much attention.
Had I been her editor, I would have had my red pencil out!Harriet Vane returns to Oxford for Gaudy Night with some trepidation, and is drawn into solving a Poison Pen mystery.
It's one of the last in the series and thus hard to talk about without spoiling earlier books, as it deals with the resolution of the relationship between Lord Peter and Harriet Vane, the mystery writer first introduced in Strong Poison and seen again in Have His Carcase.
Later, when the poison pen returns and starts to play other pranks, the Dean and the Warden invite Harriet to return to Shrewsbury to investigate the incidents; eventually, Harriet calls in Lord Peter as well.The mystery is certainly intriguing, but what really speaks to me about Gaudy Night is its investigation into different ideas of marriage and of woman's place in the world.
Under that influence, I lay still and quiet, and listened, and breathed.Not coincidentally, Edward Petherbridge slightly overshadows Ian Carmichael in my affections, and I don't think I'll ever be able to read Gaudy Night without sympathising wholly with Harriet's realisation of her own feelings.
I don't think I'll ever be rational about Lord Peter again, and I was already a fair way to in love with the character.He can be ridiculous, but he's so good; sometimes, in the other books, I think I resented Harriet a little for her treatment of him.
Peter's too perfect, of course, especially in Gaudy Night -- but in a perfect way I find impossible to fault!Sayers' Oxford is a lovely thing, too.
Oh, my GOD, Dorothy L. Sayers is quite the snob! 2011 has been Mystery Year, it being when I started officially working as an attorney and having to read just to be entertained and this piece of crap made me want to swear off British whodunits forever. Luckily, Dame Agatha and Ngaio Marsh still deliver. The truth is, I like my mysteries to be about murders and this fricking bore was a crappy who sent those ghastly, tastleless anonymous letters affair. No murders about, and by page 20 I was ready

I think Sayers is arguing for give and take; it's true even today that women make a certain sacrifice, far more than men do, when they enter into a marriage (the physical and emotional effects of childbearing and the change in status are still very real, despite our so-called progress) and I think Sayers is seeking, not so much an end to such sacrifice but an acknowledgement that it is real and should not be entered into lightly.After pulling Wimsey and Vane through two novels, Sayers is faced with the challenge of getting two emotionally scarred characters to the big Yes, and she does so through Harriet's eyes, using her beloved Oxford as the catalyst.
Then this is the book for you...Although this is really the third book in the Harriet Vane/Lord Peter Wimsey series (after Strong Poison and Have His Carcase), it is my favorite.
Anyone who has ever been a woman trying to reconcile feminist values of individuality and self-fulfillment with Christian values of sacrifice and relationality will sympathize with Harriet.
Fans sometimes accuse Harriet of being less interesting than Lord Peter, but then introverted intuitive thinking types are often dismissed so unceremoniously.
I, at least, find that Harriet voices what troubles my own head.
So in a somewhat egoistical way, I find Harriet very interesting.
In contrast, we see Wimsey age and mature from a frivolous youth to an idiosyncratic middle-aged man – in the course of which he manages to woo and win the attractive Harriet Vane, the famous mystery author whom he manages to save from the scaffold.Wimsey and Harriet’s troubled love affair is an integral part of many of the novels.
Of course, it is very clear to the reader that in her heart of hearts, she loves him.Dorothy Sayers had to put a satisfying end to this romance, while keeping her mystery stories ticking: she does a masterful job in this novel.
Sayers writes herself into her series and then takes us on a trip to her alma mater. Gaudy Night is a slow and easy look at university life at an all-girls college in 1930s Oxford. Not your typical whodunnit, this is an enjoyable sojourn into academia that takes its time and lets the story and characters breathe.
Before I read Gaudy Night, I had always thought of Lord Peter mainly as an amusing, almost caricature detective.
For the first time since reading Strong Poison, I see Lord Peter as a human being.
If you have, and still think 300 pages about Harriet and Peter working out their complicated and fascinating relationship would be interesting, you need to read Strong Poison again and pay attention this time.
In fact, I almost wish I had read more of the Harriet and Peter stories before I read this one - I know there are other novels where they interact, and I think I should read those, then read Gaudy Night again just to fully appreciate how far these two incredible characters have gone in order to reach this point.
I feel it’s not really possible for me to “review” Gaudy Night. I kind of have to give you my life’s story along with it. Also, this isn’t going to be a review. It’s just going to be a long and rambling personal account of several different readings of the same book. If you’re not already a fan of both Wein AND Sayers, look away now.I am a rare example of a Sayers-fan change ringer who wasn’t inspired to learn to ring because of The Nine Tailors. (I was inspired to learn to ring because of  Aken
There is a scene in Gaudy Night - published in 1935 – in which Harriet receives mail THREE TIMES A DAY, in addition to telegrams and telephone calls.
Sound familiar?)But I said yes and no, didn’t I, about still relating to Harriet?I actually found that in the intervening twenty years my own writing career had changed into something that more closely matched Harriet’s than I ever imagined, which made me kind of laugh and cry.
Slow, slow leak that proceeds to fill a lake of historic educational manners and structure, wit under 100 synonyms, emotional reservoirs with walls the size of Hoover Dam, and female gender conflicts and dichotomies of this age between the world wars amid the ironies of work/wifehood/intellect/purpose for women of high aptitudes especially before or since.Yes, a run-on sentence.
People fall into sex so easily in our more modern age and without any mental or emotional depth of exercise- that they can't even acknowledge that those other aspects exist as well and as much as they do.
Концепція цієї книжки мене якось безумно веселить і розчулює, мені в ній вчувається якийсь такий дитячий оповідацький breathless захват - буде так, як ми розкажемо.
І тд))) ОООКЕЙ)))) Коротше, якщо вам колись було цікаво, як лайфстайл порн штибу "50 відтінків" виглядав 70 років тому у виконанні значно розумнішої і освіченої людини, ніж Е.Л.
Excellent story -- I am going to read the next in the series and then maybe go back to the beginning and read them all. Lord Peter and Harriet Vane are great characters.
Although this is the strongest, I would recommend reading at least the two earlier novels featuring Vane first, Strong Poison and Have His Carcase.Vane's a mystery writer herself, and at one point in this book Wimsey challenges her to delve deeper into her characters, and tells her that she can do better than just writing puzzle pieces.
But let him be soon over, that we may hear the great striding fugue again."I loved that idea of a marriage of true minds--neither submitting themselves to simply accompany another life, but both playing different lines of melody that together make for complex and rich music.
I remember being vaguely annoyed at the time that the whodunnit aspect of the book seemed so downplayed and that I couldn't seem to keep all the characters straight, though I found the romance between Harriet and Peter fascinating and encouraging given that I was a bookish teenager wondering if there were guys who liked smart, bookish girls.
The book stayed in the back of my psyche in the intervening years as just that -- decent mystery, too much academic talk between too many interchangeable female dons, hurrah for Peter Wimsey, champion of smart, bookish women.
In Gaudy Night, Dorothy Sayers follows not her usual hero, Lord Peter Wimsey, but instead his longtime love, Harriet Vane.
The obsessions of the prankster echo events from Harriet’s life, and the whole experience forces her to turn her assumptions and beliefs inside-out and upside-down.
In Gaudy Night, we are deep inside Harriet Vane’s mind from the very start, and the result is a far more intense and personal experience.
Many women will resonate with Harriet’s central dilemma, making the process of reading this book gripping and memorable.It seems that Sayers threw everything of herself into Gaudy Night—her heart and soul and every inch of her mind.
very strange book.
it's a 500 page mystery but the main character never does any detecting, she just kinda sits around waiting for the criminal to strike again...
and then in the end her detective boyfriend shows up and says who did it and then the evildoer makes a speech.
which is actually a really good speech!
by far the best part of the book.
and then there's some kissin' and it's over.
not really sure why this one's so famous, though i can see how the setting (a women's college) was probably out of the ordinary at the time.
She likes Peter, but has not quite connected to him as an attractive male, and considers herself weighed down and burdened by her debt to him – while also strongly and powerfully believing that she herself is "spoiled" – publicly known to not be a virgin and thus not suitable marriage material.Gaudy Night opens with Harriet Vane returning to Oxford, giving us the equivalent of a high school reunion, as Harriet looks back with rose coloured eyes on happy student days, and offers up a romanticised picture of Oxford scholars as unworldly and devoted to nothing but the highest of intellectual ideals.
Reading Gaudy Night felt a bit like driving on a crowded snail-speed bus, with all these fancy looking cars with number plates as Howl's Moving Castle, Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close and The Shadow of the Wind passing me by.
My problem with Harriet was that she, besides playing a detective and occasionally fussing about whether or not to accept Wimsey's marriage proposal and the possible consequences for her career and independence - she did not bring any interesting traits to the table.
However, his quarterly formal requests for marriage, the pompous dinner conversations and his romantic interest in Harriet: it felt like a farce.
Oxford has provided the background to many detective stories, and it’s a great setting for a crime novel.
It’s also ambitious in that Sayers is trying to create characters with a genuine inner life, rather than mere cogs in the machine of the plot.Although Lord Peter Wimsey certainly figures in the book the central character is very much Harriet Vane.
Like Sayers, Harriet is a Oxford graduate and a writer of detective fiction who has led a somewhat scandalous personal life (although Sayers managed to avoid public scandal).
This is my second Peter Wimsey book, and though this is considered the best by Dorothy L.
Fortunately enough, the book had very less of him and the protagonist was Harriet Vane, in the setting of Oxford.
I loved Harriet Vane.
After a point in the book, I wanted the mystery to be solved by her and was quite ready to forsake the protagonist of the series.
For a change, this wasn't a murder mystery and it was a refreshing change.
As compared to the previous Wimsey book which I read (Whose Body?), I loved the writing in this one.
Like I said in a status update, this is a great book that I'm going to have to re-read to fully appreciate. So this probably won't be a very in depth review.Of course, (view spoiler)[I spent a long time waiting for Peter to show up!, but I'm very, very glad this was really Harriet's book. That needed to happen for the love story to work. (hide spoiler)]Also, (view spoiler)[ I JUST KNEW THE CHESS SET WOULD BE DESTROYED. *cries* (hide spoiler)]The ending was great and I AM SO EXCITED FOR THE NEXT ONE.
An extremely involved, beautifully complicated mystery, with gorgeous descriptions of university life and environs. The story has a distinct feminist bent and so I’m not satisfied with the ending between Harriet Vane and Lord Peter Wimsey. It feels like a cop out, but more true to the times, perhaps? Otherwise, I loved it!
Along with a mystery set in Oxford.Also, the Dean entertains me.(And the chess set is still the most upsetting part.)2016 RereadFinally got around to rereading this book this week.I think I might have loved it more the second time around.
mind.I love how clearly the whole thing is set up as a choice.Also, "A marriage of two independent and equally irritable intelligences seems to me reckless to the point of insanity.
The thing is, I really enjoyed this book a lot, but I don't know how to review it.
