https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3112850-lament
But this was like a smol trip back down faerie memory lane 😍and I remember why I'm SO addicted to all of the Stiefvater books.
It is magic.*:·ﾟ✧*:·ﾟ✧1st Read | Oct 2012I say (unashamedly too) that I love Maggie Stiefvater’s writing (I also found out her name was pronounced: Steve-otter.
Then I found Maggie Stiefvater had written a trilogy about faeries and thyme and music.
The style of Lament is beautiful, concise, emotional, with enough teen flairs to keep you down to earth (though I do worry that the book will be dated in a ten years or so, with her uses of “screw you” and “puke” and such).
I could hear the music all through the book.
I don't care how much you are awed by a hot body and perfect blond hair (I'm not too old to appreciate that, though I prefer brown hair) you should not be following around a mysterious guy who openly admits he is dangerous and you think might be trying to kill you!
The best male friend is of course popular, gorgeous, charming, and completely in love with lead-female even though she is (insert one of the following: oblivious, scared, stupid) to this.
Then, a new bad-boy (insert a male name that is either foreign or old-school) comes to town who happens to be (insert any mythical character here).
shitlistedfaerie: come away, human. me: why? faerie: untold delights and stiefvater-stories forever. me: i'm holding out for a better offer. ta.
The plot was extremely interesting, the twists on traditional faerie-lore quite well planned, and the romance was enjoyable.I can see where people are coming from comparing Luke to Edward Cullen, but...well...I didn't like Twilight, and I DID like this book, so read into that what you will.
I never realized that having one or two blank pages between the story's end and the author bio made such a difference, but it's like the screen going blank on a movie for a moment before the credits roll...it's a moment to pause and realize things are done.
But overall if you let a few things just slide it is fun and entertaining read.Deirdre is smart (except when it comes to boys) and extremely talented, she also has just figured out she is a little different and can sense and see the Fae. That has put her in the crosshairs of not one but two assassins.
Luke is the boy (*cough* 1000-year-old love interest *cough*) who seems to get Dee. He is beautiful and they make wonderful music together everything seems almost perfect until weird things start happening and Dee thinks that Luke might not be just the boy next door.James…now this is the relationship I could have totally got behind.
After putting down this book, the first thing I thought was: Man, that was incredible.
The second thing I thought was: WHY MUST THE SEQUEL COME OUT NEXT YEAR AND NOT RIGHT NOW?
But Lament itself is an incredible book.
The characters are amazing - I was so used to reading about heroines who play dumb or have no idea about this-or-that going on, and I was surprised, then overjoyed, to find that Deirdre was smart and clever and offered a refreshing point of view.
God, I don't even know what to point out as outstanding, because every page brought on something great.
What I liked about Lament: the writing was lyrical, the characters were real, the heroine wasn't a spineless dishrag, and the love interest was an assassin.
(Okay, so I have a thing for assassins.) The faeries were portrayed as feral and dangerous, which is how they're supposed to be, in my humble opinion.
The ending killed me, in a good way.
The author certainly didn't take the easy way out, forcing a sappy, Happily Ever After onto the characters when logic clearly dictated otherwise.
The ending is real and bittersweet, and what I respect most about this author's work.
2. a song, piece of music, or poem expressing grief or regret.I pre-ordered Lament when I first heard about it a couple months ago.
Okay, not exactly a shout out, but on page 102 and I quote: “You’re like a siren, leading me into dangerous places.” How cool is that!Deirdre Monaghan is a very gifted harp player, one of the best in the nation.
Unsure what exactly Luke is, could he be one of Them, Dierdre battles with her desire to find the truth and her desire of Luke.Lament is Maggie Stiefvater’s debut novel.
I adore and admire Maggie Stiefvater's writing.
I think I post this in almost every review of her books, but the way she uses words inspires me to improve my own writing.
Despite Lament's shortcomings when compared to her series starting with Shiver, I still enjoyed it.Deirdre Monaghan is the average above-average sixteen-year-old.
As unappealing as that first date may seem, things get even stranger when Deirdre discovers that Luke is a faerie assassin.
Maggie Stiefvater's writing is at least tenfold of Stephenie Meyer's, or at least what Meyer displayed in her Twilight series.
horrible.
i've read several faerie books and this one was the worst.
the main character just learns of the world of the fey so nonchalantly that it seems completely unbelievable and ridiculous.
the references that her family was involved with the fey and now isnt is preposterous as the mom and aunt (who is or isnt a villain)dont get what's going on.
this was a horrendous book where the plot takes several leaps of faith without explaining where the notions come from...
just failing to enhance the plot.
a terrible read.
I will use a quote from her book to illustrate my point:"We sat arm to arm, staring at the same grubby plastic menu, like we were a normal couple, not a telekinetic freak and a soulless fairie assassin.
He hints that he has some super dark secret and that he just can't keep himself from her, and despite many red flags (the fact that she can read his mind and see his memories and oh WAIT...he's not only a murderer, he's an assassin) she finds herself falling in love with him only to discover that his dark secret is going to keep them apart in the end.
The author tried to explain things towards the end, but it was still really confusing!
The main character, Deirdre, is pretty smart, but she doesn't seem to like to know or want to understand anything that's going on in her life.
A smart girl would question everything especially when a weirdo guy just pops up in my life and has stalker-like qualities.
And dude was playing a flute.
Fiddlers are pretty hot.
A lot of things that weren't explained about the characters.
It was a pretty good ending which is why I thought it was just "ok".
I’ve heard from so many various sources (yes, book friends included) that anything else Stiefvater has written cannot amount to the sheer radiance of The Raven Cycle (so don’t bother), and while I somewhat agree, partially because my adoration for that series knows no bounds, I have to point out that not every book written by the same author means that the style of writing or atmosphere will be the same.
It’s rare to find a pairing that I fully invest my heart in, especially one from a seemingly unknown book, but Luke and Deirdre were too adorable for me to not fall in love with them.
an ordinary-feeling young woman is initiated into an invisible world of magic and intrigue.
The young woman's parents are clueless to the point of near negligence.
It's uncomfortable to consider the supernatural shadow world as an allegory of the adult world, because in that case, this book seems to imply that the young woman requires an older man to shepherd her through life.That ends the part of the review that I could have copied from my review of Twilight, had I bothered to write one.
I read this book because I'd heard Ballad was so good.
ehhhh. instalove.Besides that (removing at least 2 stars for the terrible cliche of it all), the fae side of this was handled beautifully. I had fun, once the compulsive eye-rolling stopped. The writing is actually pretty good, and the illustrations were nice too.
This book is everything I longed for Wicked Lovely to be. I got sucked in first chapter and settled back and let Maggie Stiefvater take me away. Fairies done right (intriguing and vicious), the joys/sorrows of young love, and natural feeling amusing dialogue; combined with a seductive sadness undertone to the writing makes this book freaking brilliant.
Yes, Luke has good reasons for everything he's ding ( a psycho queen tortures his caged soul to get him to do her bidding because he refuses to love her) but Dee didn't know this..she just kept throwing herself at a murderer because he's hot and she doesn't really have any other interaction with boys..except for her nerdy, charming, cute, adorable, loyal and slightly kick ass with a fire poker best friend James...who is so far in the friendzone I almost felt his pain.The plot was up and down, I don't really know why one book was split into 6 tiny books..that was odd, but most of the story was odd.
There were psycho fairies and murders going on, but Dee was convinced she needed to act like everything was normal or Luke might vanish, or her family might actually get that much needed family meeting.
Eerie fae, humans who have been trapped for centuries, and a modern singer/harpist pulled between friendship, the lover of her true dreams, and family. This book is haunting and irresistible. I'm looking forward to reading the next one!
Stiefvater...why must you disappoint me so.
Not my favourite Maggie Stiefvater, but still entertaining!
So here goes (spoiler alert!): Girl meets mysterious Boy who has no personality but is really hot, and Girl decides she is in love with him.
Girl decides she is still in love with Boy even though he has murdered 100s of people and has no personality (oh right, I forgot.
That doesn't matter because he is hot!) Boy decides that he will not murder Girl he has known for 1 week because he is "in love" with her, too.
into the characters if they are poorly characterized "ideas" instead of real people), but there are so many GOOD YA books out there.
Loved the character of Luke, one of my favorite YA boys this year. Thought Deirdre had an interesting arc, her connection with Luke was powerful. I really liked the detailed connection between music and power, and the incredibly articulated visual images of the book.
Recht lästig.
Ich war gerade von einer Raubkatze halb zerfleischt worden, neben der sich der weiße Hai wie ein übellauniger Goldfisch ausnahm.
Wenn das "recht lästig" war, wollte ich das ganze Ausmaß des Problems lieber nicht kennenlernen.
3,5 Sterne.Ich sollte meine Lektion endlich lernen.
Wenn du einmal ein Buch im englischen Original gelesen hast, vermeide die deutsche Übersetzung wie der Teufel das Weihwasser.
Die englische Ausgabe habe ich letztes Jahr an einem Abend begeistert durchgesuchtet, die deutsche Übersetzung mutete sich teilweise sehr holprig an und wollte mich nicht so recht in ihren Bann schlagen.
Maggie Stiefvater mixed in with Fae is the perfect comabantion for a book and it definitely lived up to my expectations.
My thoughts:• 'Twas basically a fluffy summer romance, but also A VERY WICKED, STABBY BOOK.• Luke + Dierdre = precious, flirty, and just meant to be! (view spoiler)[BUT THAT ONE PLOT TWIST, THOUGH. I'm not sure I would'a stuck with that dude. *shrugs* (hide spoiler)] I NEEDS BOOK TWO.• James = cool.• I NEED MORE MAGGIE STIEFVATER IN MY LIFE. *rushes off to read all her other books! ...but also get edited versions (see below). Content -wise, this was... borderline for the general market, I guess?
My thoughts:• 'Twas basically a fluffy summer romance, but also A VERY WICKED, STABBY BOOK.• Luke + Dierdre = precious, flirty, and just meant to be!
(view spoiler)[BUT THAT ONE PLOT TWIST, THOUGH.
I'm not sure I would'a stuck with that dude.
*shrugs* (hide spoiler)] I NEEDS BOOK TWO.• James = cool.• I NEED MORE MAGGIE STIEFVATER IN MY LIFE.
*rushes off to read all her other books!
...but also get edited versions (see below).
Content
-wise, this was...
borderline for the general market, I guess?
A little bit / a lot of snogging (*gags*) and some language -- but also two or three very noticeable drops of the "f-word," so...
And Maggie Steifvater's books are all so different that I feel like they are really hit and miss, whether you are a fan of her or not.
I did listen to this as an audio book, and I didn't really like the narrator, but at the same time....I didn't like Deirdre's annoying internal monologue and 0 emotions.
I am kind of sad, but at the same time, it wasn't too much less than I expected, but if you wanna read a lighter paranormal romance with some hot faerie dudes, then maybe you'll like this?
They play some amazing music together, and by the end of the day, Deirdre is more than a little infatuated.
But I did enjoy the give-and-take of Deirdre's relationships with Luke and her best friend James.
Deirdre and Luke enjoyed playing old ballads together, and I liked that this book had a similar feel to it.
I'll hold off a little while though because reading a sequel too soon tends to make me feel like the overall story has gotten repetitive.This isn't a new favorite by any means, but if you're interested based on the synopsis, go ahead and read it.
Luke performs with Deirdre, together creating incredible music and winning the grand prize.
But nothing can protect her from falling in love with Luke, who turns out to be far more dangerous than she would ever have dreamed.First, I have to say that I really dislike the cover of this book.
Stiefvater's web site has a new cover on display which really fits the story better.This book is hauntingly lovely, achingly filled with passion, and scarily vivid.
I love the pacing of the novel where just like Deirdre, the reader is trying to figure out what Luke is.
o_o I think the main thing that turned me off was the insta-love.
Even the heroine herself realized this and would think things like "I'm an idiot for doing this.
What's crazy is, reading this I realized this was sort of the original version of what The Raven Boys turned out to be.
I even drew parallels; whether the author meant them or not: -Like how the main guy was just obsessed with his car.-Both guys gave their cars names.
For a book about faeries, I'm surprised how low my rating is...again I'm pretty sure it was the insta-love that turned me off.
Good faerie story - mediocre romance.
Maybe, if I had not read the exceptionally wonderful "Shiver" before, I would have liked "Lament" more.
My expectations have been too high, I guess.
I liked the concept of those evil faeries, inhumanly beautiful, powerful and always enjoying to toy with human prey.
The suspense factor was also really high.What did not reach my heart was the supposedly romantic atmosphere - though a lot of tense and love-filled situations occur.
There are still so many other promising faerie stories around.
