https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129664.Betty_Crocker_s_Cooky_Book
I loved reading the recipes and seeing the marks she made next to the cookies she made.
I highly enjoyed seeing the variations to many of the recipes in the book, just by adding a different spice or adding nuts.The best part of the book for me was the section called Betty Crocker's Best Cookies.
I enjoyed reading the blurb about the cookie and the historical highlights of events that happened during those periods.So if you need a new cookie recipe or just want to find an old favorite then check out Betty Crocker's Cooky Book!!
This is the cookie book that started it all for me, and taught me the wrong way to spell "cooky." My copy cost $1.95, purchased for me by my mother when it first came out, and I've been making cookies from it ever since. It's still one of my favorite collections and contains some of my favorite - and most requested - recipes.
My sister gave me this cookbook when I was first married, and it has been used faithfully through the years. Butterscotch brownies, chocolate crinkles, snickerdoodles, candy canes...so many warm memories.
This was one of the cookbooks that I remember my mother using a lot. After she died I just had to have her copy. The chocolate crinkle cookies with powdered sugar are the best.
Over the years it's been used time and again, for everything from Christmas cookies, to finding that perfect thing to take to the potluck or to have when guests are over.
I've never found a cookie in this book that wasn't delicious and just perfect the way it was.I wish I could find another copy.
Both covers finally fell off this past year and I feel dreadfully guilty at the loss, as this was my mother's book and never should have been treated so roughly.
Of course I'd keep my own copy, because of the history involved.
Per Romi:The Sugar Cookie was pretty good but I would prefer the book to have more photos.
The descriptions were short.
I plan to try the Snickerdoodle recipe next.Nicola: This was the book my mom used every holiday season dating back to the 70s.
It has all the classics, thumbprint, peanut butter, chocolate crinkles and shortbread.
The drawings and photos are quite dated as the first edition is 1963.
But the recipes are solid and can be simple to follow with children.
The back of the cookbook has a best of the decades spanning from 1880 to 1960 with historical highlights.
This book has become our hands down go to book for cookies in this house.
My first copy was the first book the kids reached for when it was their turn to pick a recipe.
It was getting close to any kind of holiday, especially around Christmas time.
I often found them just flipping through the pages just looking at the pictures to pass the time.
Needless to say, when that cherished gift from my mother in law finally died I was left without mercy until I purchased another one.
We once again have a copy in pride of place amongst my cookbooks.
A classic. Your mother or grandmother probably had this book in her kitchen.
One of my favorite "go to" cookbooks for cookie recipes!
This is my All-Time fave cookie book!
I don't know how many dozens of cookies were created by my Mom and I over the years, all from this book.
In fact, we used it so much, her copy is literally in pieces and it's being held together by rubber bands!!
get rid of her copy!
I don't care if there's only the cover and one page left in it, I'll always keep that copy.
Really should get Mom a new one so it doesn't become "that" book though.
:)I have other cookie books, but this is the one I always seem to use.
One of my favorite cookbooks. I remember reading this like a book when I was a kid, partly because of the awesome pictures of each recipe and the composed pictures of each section. Nowadays, the pictures are quaintly retro and therefore even cooler than they were when new! But there are quite a lot of good recipes as well, real classics like gingersnaps and crinkles. Some of the most fun are the ones made with crazy 60s and 70s cereals, some of which you can still find.
My mom has the original 1963 copy of this cookbook, and I grew up cooking from it. It wouldn't be Christmas without out the spritz and pinwheels and other classic recipes. When I moved out we had an ongoing squabble about who would get to keep the book, and she finally had a color copy made for me and bound. It is awesome that the original came back in print just the way it was. Every recipe is a classic.
Some of the best cookie recipes you will come across! I especially love the "cookies by decade" in the back. I love the history of the things we eat like the crownie developed from a failed cake recipe. The chocolate chip cookies are wonderful-- and if you use shortening like they recommend your cookies will be plump and delicious not flat and melted all over the pan. I also have a deep appreciation for hte rockin 70" photos in this book. Its clear food photography has come a long way.
My mom has been cooking from the original edition of this book for, like, one billion years, and when I was a kid my friends would come over to my house and go directly to the cookie jar. That sounds like an oversentimentalized memory, but it's completely true. I sort of hate making cookies for some inexplicable reason, but I do own this book and if I had to make cookies because one of you guys wheedled me into it, I would go to it immediately.
I was disappointed in this book. I guess I expected a lot of vintage "cool" recipes, but it was very uninteresting and there weren't really that many cookie recipes that looked appealing. I am glad I checked this out from the library before buying it. Also, almost all the recipes call for shortening, which I am trying to avoid- I would rather use real butter. Guess I should look for a vintage cookbook that was released before shortening was. I do love the cover of the book.
My sister gave me this book one Christmas shortly after my mother died. We had this when we were growing up. I could spend hours just looking at the pictures...most of the recipes are fairly ordinary and some are out dated but I don't care...it's the best. I've always wanted to build the ginger bread house that Betty has given the plans for.....ah the memories....
All the recipes I have tried from this have turned out delicious, particularly the snickerdoodles. The book is cute and vintage, and the colorful photographs and recipe descriptions are delightful. I would recommend this to someone that doesn't want to deal with all the new recipes and versions you can find today but wants the classic recipes that people enjoyed years ago.
Betty Crocker was my first companion in cooking and I still have an old Betty Crocker Cookbook. I often return to it for a basic banana bread recipe when I tire of playing around with newer recipes. My favorite part of this cookbook was the last section highlighting the "The Best Cooky" of each decade from 1880-1960.
I found this book at a flea market a few years ago. It is amazing. I love cook books from the 50s anyway, and I am a baker by trade, so this book was perfect. The pictures are wonderful, especially when they get the decor of the time in there with the cookies. Lots of forgotten gem recipes in here. If you like to bake cookies I highly recommend this book.
This was my "go to" book for cookies for years. I got this when I was a teenager and there are still some favourites in it. I am now unable to eat gluten though, so I have tried modifying a few to be 'GF' and that has worked, but just in general I don't do as much baking.If I were to make cookies for someone else though, this would still be my go to book.
This book is a keeper for anyone who loves homemade cookies....or loves looking at them!Produced in 2002, it is a facsimile edition of a General Mills 1963 release.It really is a heritage cookbook (original pictures and recipes), paying tribute to an era.The reader can feel free to modify according to today's ingredients and eating patterns.
I grew up making cookies with my mother and my grannie from this book...my mother still has her original copy, but I found it reproduced and bought it myself. I even found the exact same cookie jar I had growing up in an antique store, and both are proudly displayed in my kitchen. Lots of great classic cookie recipes from this cookbook...I recommend the chocolate crinkles especially!
I remember leafing through this every Eid looking for new recipes to try out. We haven't baked for Eid for a long time for a number of reasons, but I'm glad my Mom came across this edition (exactly the same as hers). A great gift to keep us connected to our heritage. Now I just have to copy her notes and check which recipes we haven't tried out yet.
This is another of my cookbooks that's literally falling apart--I've had it since the early 60s. I've gotten it out every year during the holiday season and baked cookies for family, neighbors, friends, the mailman, etc. It's full of notations as to which Christmas I baked certain cookies--I think I've baked every cookie in the book.
My mom has the original 1960's edition of this cook book and I grew up eating cookies from it. I have yet to taste a bad one. My favorites are Ethel's Sugar Cookies (the best I've ever had) and Molasses Crinkles. They are Christmas standards in my family. They have started printing it again, and now I have a copy for my own family.
I inherited this book after my mother died. It belonged to my grandmother, and was one of the most used cookie books in her home. There are so many delicious recipes, but my favorite are the "Chocolate Crinkles". The book is now falling apart, but we use it faithfully, especially around the holidays. This book is a must for anyone that wants to bake mouthwatering cookies!
i make the snickerdoodles from this book all the time. foolproof. delicious. a little poofy/cakey.my mom loves their chocolate crinkles and lemon bars (though i tried making the lemon bars recently and they left me a bit underwhelmed).
Picked this book up at a library sale for $0.25. It has a lot of simple cookie recipes that just taste like grandma made them. It also has a lot of suggestions of easy decorating for classic cookies.
It took me (many) years to locate a vintage copy of this outstanding recipe book -- the best of its kind, in my humble opinion. If you love to bake, or collect cookbooks, your collection is incomplete without this treasure. A must-have!
This is THE cookie book, if you can't find a recipe you like in here, you don't like cookies. My mom used this book while we were growing up, I inherited it and when it was reprinted I bought one for myself and one to pass on to my daughter. It's that good.
