https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/474211.Bedknob_and_Broomstick
tutti gli erripotter del mondo per uno solo di questi pomi d’ottone.il film non perde un colpo a distanza di decenni (rivisto di recente, garantisco), e quando ho trovato il libro su una bancarella di borghetto flaminio sono stata più felice di miss price davanti alla metà mancante del volume sul mago astoroth.(emelius browne è un fantastico nome da gatto. lo opziono pubblicamente, che si sappia).
I grew up watching a Beta tape (OMG) version of this movie, starring Angela Lansbury, when I was younger. When I became a little older, and many of the original Disney classics that we ONLY had on beta were lost, I was inconsolable. I didn't get to watch many of those Diney favorites again until I was a teenager; Escape to Witch Mountain, The Parent Trap, Return From Witch Mountain, The Apple Dumpling Gang. I relish these books now, as treasured memories of rainy days, curled up in my grandmother's apartment, watching Disney while she crocheted.
I don't remember this book too well, but I know that between this and the picture-book "Bed Book" I really wanted a flying bed as a child. Life is full of disappointments.
"Once upon a time there were three children, and their names were Carey, Charles, and Paul.
Carey was about your age, Charles a little younger, and Paul was only six." Marvelous adventure, still enjoyable decades after publication.
There's a troubling chapter about South Sea cannibals, but the book is clearly fantasy, and so a young reader is not going to imagine that there really are 'natives' as depicted...
I've no idea about the movie of this book, but the book itself I highly recommend to interested readers.
A lot of things were changed and added for the movie, which doesn't really bother me since I think these changes gave the movie a stronger direction and more character development than the book had.
As an interesting side note, Emelius' shy, nervous personality in the book is almost the exact opposite of his personality in the film.
I think the only thing that really bothered me about this book is that overall, the storyline and characters felt very underdeveloped.
This was generally a cute, lighthearted story, but I felt that it definitely lacked something.
Una piccola, deliziosa storia per bambini e ragazzi. Molto diverso dal film che ha ispirato, più semplice, giusto effettivamente per l’età a cui fa riferimento. Dopo aver visto il film centinaia di volte (da piccola, eh... ahahah!!) ti viene automatico immaginarti i personaggi con le fattezze di Angela Lansbury e dei ragazzi. C’è tutto: la campagna, la vicina strana, la magia, l’avventura, i viaggi nel tempo. Insomma, quasi 200 pagine che sono un piccolo soffio d’aria fresca.
:D) ma in tutta onestà non sapevo fosse tratto da un libro!!
Se non si parla dei super best-seller alcuni libri vengono totalmente ignorati), invece ce ne erano tantissime copie perché l'addetta al reparto bambini ci capisce (e mi ha dato una pacca ammirata sulla spalla per averlo comprato il primo giorno di uscita :DD)!
Se vi è piaciuto il film (e a parte quelli che non lo conoscono perché di un'altra generazione..
COme si fa a non amare quel film??) e se pensate che i libri di infanzia non siano solo per bambini..
Sia per la storia (che però non è uguale al film..
This is two books combined into one, which became the basis for the movie Bedknobs and Broomsticks.
I had no idea that Mary Norton had written the book that Bedknobs and Broomsticks was based on .
The children aren't evacuees, there's no Island of Naboomboo, and Emelius Jones isn't selling fake magic lessons on Portobello road.
If, however, you aren't looking for a play-by-play of the film, you might enjoy this.
I don't think it's as strong as her Borrowers books, but the kids enjoyed having it read aloud to them.
The first section of the book (equivalent to The Magic Bed-Knob) reveals how Carey, Charles and Paul Wilson came to know Miss Eglantine Price and the adventures they had as a result.
(They are well-prepared because Paul left his aunt's house with the magic bed-knob in his pocket.) But when they arrive at Miss Price's they find that she has given up her studies.
It's very difficult for me to rate this because I think that my opinion is a tad biased, given how much I love the movie adaptation of this.
There are obviously similarities but the two are practically different stories in most respects.
I have a great deal of respect for this work, and the era from which it came, however, and am not saying that it is an unenjoyable read.
I did like it, just not as much as the movie I suppose.
But once again, I think I'm being a bit biased.
The movie is very little like the book. A fun read aloud! I read this with my little Bella (11)."I distinctly told you to stay by the bed. I've been frightened out of my wits about you. Out of my wits. I came back here, worn-out with witchcraft, longing to put my feet up for five minutes - and what do I find?" "...don't worry Miss Price--she can't do magic with a sprained ankle.""There should be moderation in all things--even in magic."
The children are happy and can't wait to begin their adventures.Many times when I was a kid, I watched Bedknobs and Broomsticks, which was a fun and exciting movie that I still love to this day.I decided to give the book a read - since I love the movie, I figured I'd love the book as well.
So, I readied myself for exciting adventures.And I truly wanted to love this book as I do the movie, but I just can't.
I found myself often getting bored while reading this book and there just wasn't any connect with any of the characters.This is one time where, in my opinion, that the movie is better than the book.
Not a completely unappealing story, but Mary Norton both overly complicates plot points and makes them boring. It's like she can't write a "straight" children's fantasy novel, she has to add all these qualifiers and objections to magic in it. This is one case where the movie is better than the book.
I loved this book as a kid so was thrilled to spot it in a charity shop for my own children. The story starts off fairly slowly but builds brilliantly. My 7-year-old was reading by torchlight after lights out (his sign of a good book!)The character descriptions are beautifully done and the many strands of the story woven in very neatly, never losing focus or distracting the reader. Still love it!
милая, но совсем простенькая, лет на 8-10
Not only a book, but that an author I had read before, Mary Norton who wrote The Borrowers, was the author.Ms. Norton's book did not disappoint me.
We don't exactly get the same story, but there are enough bits and pieces from the book that you can see the inspiration in the movie, especially the island scene.
Alas, while there is a bit of Substitutiary Locomotion in the book, it's not quite the focus it was in the movie.
I do like the Substitutiary Locomotion and did miss the spell, which actually I think was a song in the movie.
(Treguna Mekoides Trecorum Satis Dee).Anyways, read the book if you liked the movie.
It’s a a strange sensation to reread a book that I last read at the age of about 8 or 9, somewhere around 55 years ago.
I remembered it as charming but not as good as The Borrowers, and that’s true.
Most of the story holds up.
The three children are fairly standard British children-in-a-magical-adventure, but Miss Price the Witch and Mr. Jones the Wizard are charming.
The only badly dated and now a bit disturbing scene was the trip to the cannibal isle, which was likely a cliche even when the book was first published.
The story would be stronger without it.
90/100I really enjoyed reading these to my kids.
There are some delicate, humorous observations throughout that resonated with me over the three weeks or so that I was reading it to the kids at bedtime.
Mary Norton tells an enchantingly small story of a witch who feels conflicted about being a witch and the children who end up in a comfortable (for them) conspiracy with her to keep her magic a secret.
This is actually a collection of two different books that can be read as a single story and I found myself wishing there was another episode when we finished even if a third book would likely ruin the satisfying conclusion of the existing two.
If you can read this book and view it as a totally different piece of work from the 1971 movie with Angela Lansbury, which is a movie I deeply love, there is no reason not to adore it. Whimsical and delightful!
This book was a delight!Read with SBC Book Club for April 2018
Both stories are highly entertaining, but book #2 makes the whole thing worth it.
Good, but not as good as The Borrowers. https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/1...
Unlike a lot of kids in my generation, since this book was written in the 50's, I actually read the book before the movie came out.
Though the movie was good, the book was certainly better.
This was one of the first books I read where I distinctly remember being amazed at the things in the book; could these things really happen?
It was one of the first books that gave me that sense of wonder that comes along with a new book.
I can't wait until my niece is old enough so that I can read this to her :)
The book and the film are quite different from one another, which is probably not two surprising."Bed-Knob and Broomstick" is actually two separate but related books that have been combined.
In the first one, amateur witch Miss Price takes three children (Paul, Carey and Charles) to a tropical island via a magical bed-knob -- which is, unfortunately, inhabited by cannibals.
The local "witch doctor" is impressed with Miss Price's magic and they make their escape.In the second book, the children convince Miss Price to let them take a spin into the past.
I never read it as a child, but really enjoyed reading it now!
I loved the story - an apprentice witch, a magical bedknob, cannibals and a trip to the past - all brilliantly written with some nice characters too.
My only niggle was the older children's treatment of Paul - I really didn't get that, but I suppose child readers would probably appreciate how annoying younger siblings can be - luckily, mine is all grown up and we don't live together, so I can look back to our childhood with more fondness!
A nice short, enjoyable read - a cross between the Narnia books and the Famous Five.
I love Mary Norton's ability to present her characters as people you could either be or know.
I liked the juxtaposition of mystical and practical (maybe this is what resonates with me so much about her writing) and the unexpected turns the story takes.
Also, the ending isn't perfectly happy, but I liked it very much.Edit: I've noticed several people mentioning that they felt the three children characters weren't fleshed out enough.
They almost become iconic stand-ins for me or you, which I think added to the strength of the story.
The second part of this book was better than the the first half in my opinion.
I mean I liked the book overall, but the first half was boring at times and more introducing the Miss Price and the three main kids.
In some ways I kind of like the movie better.This was written before the Borrowers too, probably her more famous book series.
I liked those books better too.
Like I said the first part to me seemed a little choppy, but the second half is better.
I so desperately wanted to enjoy this book.
I adore Disney's film adaptation, so I thought for sure I would love the source material on this gloomy day.
Unfortunately, I was disappointed to find that the adventures in the film were far more extravagant, whimsical, and fun than the few adventures in the book.
It doesn't happen often, but in this case I would strongly endorse viewing the film and forgetting about the book.
Perhaps it is just me, but I also found Carey and Charles to be quite bratty in the way they talked down to Paul even if he was the youngest.
Requiring some on-the-fly editing due to unbelievable racism, and an ending that I find quite an odd choice, this is a book where not everything made sense but I enjoyed the premise and the characters enough for three stars. Reads like two novellas squished together and has the feel of Green Knowe for some reason.
4.5 StarsRead this as a child and adored it, still lovely, especially Norton's witty and concise writing style, though the stories themselves were more exciting in my memory than in this reread.Strangest thing is, I can remember scenes from these books that aren't in this edition or the Disney movie. I wonder if there is a another version out there?
