https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42278.I_Can_Fly
The story is fun with rhyming text of the little girl pretending to be like various animals, but the illustrations completely won me over.
I love all the details in how the little girl matches the animals she pretends to be--things like her sunhat looking like a clam shell, or the pillows she piles on her back matching the blankets on the camel's hump.
Adults will likely appreciate the slightly vintage feel to this (1950s) book, but I think the illustrations and story are timeless and will win over imaginative children of today, especially those who like animals.
Graciela loved this book. She had me read it at least four times in a row and was still saying, "again, again".
Not the LSD parable I thought it was going to be, but still good.
Colorful and cute.
The illustrations in this book are beautiful.
sent one to Helene B.
4* art4* storySquirt's favorite page - he repeats "pick, pick, pick, pick" for the rest of the book.
A great children's book about imagination and being what ever you want. I think it's such an amazing lesson to teach kids. That you can imagine and dream to be anything you want. One day you can create and express it. The pictures were the thing that just made me fall in love with this book though. This little girl is so freaking adorable. I could frame any of these drawing and hang them in a room. Totally adorable.
This book is adorable. It's simple enough that children of 3 or 4 would probably appreciate it because the little girl is pretending very concrete things (to be various bugs, birds, a dog, etc.) but I also think kids up to kindergarten or maybe first grade would like it too.For preschool and kindergarten it would also be really fun as a read aloud and the kids could pretend to be each of the things the little girl pretends to be.
This is a classic reissue of the Ruth Krauss's classic which is a great book for emergent and early readers. Limited print on each page presented in rhymed verse as a young girl copies the actions of animals in her world. Clear illustration print match set up nicely to invite interaction. Good for a read aloud at home or in the classroom.
Cute story. Great illustrations. Wonderful toddler read.
The children enjoyed this book and all the things they can pretend to be.
Mary Blair is the perfect illustrator for this whimsical children's book.
Had my little brother read this one it's pretty cute!
A great story for feeling your child's imagination for playing!
Great artwork and fun rhyming text for me are always a winning combination. This book is all that and more. It is a great early reader that will have children singing the words and loving the story.
Mary Blair's illustrations make this still one of my favorite Little Golden Books.
It doesn't get much better than this.
Great read for young children, my baby nephew listens at full capacity and enjoys every word !
Illustrations by Disney artist Mary Blair.Delightful. Would be fun to use for a student presentation.
This is a beautiful book. I felt like I was watching an old-time Disney movie. The poem is delicate and sweet. Great read-aloud!
One of the things about the older Golden Books that attracts me these days is that, in general, the language in them would today be aimed at first readers rather than the pre-lit crowd; it's not as aggressively simplistic.
More importantly, though, Davey didn't want much to do with it after the first few pages and, as I have often said, these days he is the final arbiter where pre-lit is concerned at Goat Central; not sure how much play this one's going to get at book tome from here on out.
The amazing thing about this book is that it has a girl protagonist.
And she does a lot of things.
The girl's activity stands out to me -- she acts out different animals, and in her imagination she is all of them -- crawling and jumping and climbing all over the place, making sound effects.
I can’t say I like the illustrations because they honestly remind me of a fever dream I had when I was little.
I can’t even say I like the book that much.
But the active, imaginative, somewhat belligerent and explorative girl character, I do like.
Originally published in 1951, this is a quick, rhyming book about a little girl who compares herself to certain creatures.A favorite read-aloud of my three-year-old. My mom tells me I was obsessed with this book myself as a toddler.
This was one of my all-time favorite children's books. Have you seen her outfits and how they match the animals?! (Well, most of them.) The little chick is the best. *Unfortunately, the newer editions have several pages removed.
An entire college course, if not curriculum, could be taught using Mary Blair's illustrative style. Her artwork is sheer perfection. I had this book when I was very young -- maybe four or five -- and I didn't remember the text entirely, but I never forgot the illustrations.
Title: I Can FlySeries: Little Golden BooksAuthor: Ruth Krauss Genre: Children's Rating: 1.5 starsA great childhood story - but not a favourite of mine. In comparison to many of the other stories available in the Little Golden Books, this one was very dull.
If you're a parent with young children, then perhaps you'll enjoy this more than I did. The Girl in the story imitates every animal that she knows and I suppose for a child's pretend, this book can be fun if read aloud and acted out!
Grade Level(s): Pre-K - K* Teaches simple words and rhyming to young children* Introduces students to a variety of animals* Can be used to introduce rhyming to students in Pre-K and kindergarten
Very cute rhyming book about a little girl who compares herself to certain creatures. A great activity can be done where students compare themselves to something else using a Venn diagram. Overall, a very simple story that children like to read themselves.
