https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257605.The_Lost_Weekend
This is a gripping novel about an alcoholic trying to survive a long weekend in Manhattan.
He looked at the clock.
Ever be wise and smart and sober enough one night, or one day, to see that he had something put by for tomorrow?
Was he going to keep on forever and ever being trapped for a fool, by no one but himself?"He got up to see if was really empty but really empty, he meant of the last little slip.
Trust the drunken hog of the night before.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can drink today,  that's me.
Fantastic novel. The most acute portrayal of alcoholism I have ever read. Joins my alcoholic canon alongside John Barleycorn by Jack London, Good Morning, Midnight by Jean Rhys and Factotum by Charles Bukowski. This book feels like a descendent of Notes from the Underground by Dostoyevsky and Hunger by Knut Hamsun in its intense portrayal of a pathological personality you can partially identify with (or maybe that's just me). I don't know why it isn't more celebrated.
Arrivederci alla prossima ricaduta Posso dire che un romanzo che parla di alcolismo è bellissimo? Sì, posso dirlo, perché lo è. Giorni perduti è il racconto dell’inesorabile discesa agli inferi di Don Birman, scrittore in crisi, in cui albergano gli stati d’animo che nutrono la disperazione: rimorso, rabbia, vergogna, disprezzo, timore di fallire… Un uomo che inganna quelli che gli vogliono bene, che promette e non mantiene (non è capace di mantenere), che ruba, che arriva a dare in pegno la su
Qualsiasi cosa.Quanto al resto, l’intreccio è costituito da divagazioni, domande senza risposta, incubi, delirium tremens con spaventose allucinazioni e un finale nient’affatto consolatorio.Giorni perduti (titolo originale: The Lost Weekend) è diventato anche un film; diretto da Billy Wilder e interpretato da uno straordinario Ray Milland, nel 1946 ottenne ben quattro premi Oscar (film, regia, attore protagonista e sceneggiatura non originale), oltre alla Palma d'oro a Cannes.https://youtu.be/N0-wNWJxGFMQui Oreste Del Buono presenta brevemente il film:https://youtu.be/63A4qzkfvkk
Όποιος εισέλθει σε αυτόν, δεν θα μπορέσει ποτέ να ξεφύγει και αυτό ακριβώς περιγράφει ο Τζάκσον στο μοναδικό του (ναι, όπως και ο "καταραμένος" Malcolm Lowry) αριστούργημα.
Κεκλεισμένων των θυρών, ο Ντον Μπέρναμ δεν επιχειρεί ουσιαστικά να ξεφύγει από τη φρίκη που τον υποβάλλει η στέρηση, απλά μηχανεύεται τρόπους να ικανοποιήσει τη δίψα που ποτέ δεν παύει.
Οι άνθρωποι γύρω του που συχνά επιχειρούν να τον σώσουν, δεν ανήκουν στο δικό του σύμπαν, αυτό του αλκοόλ και των αναθυμιάσεών του, απλά θεώνται το δράμα του ως χορός αρχαίας τραγωδίας.
Και στο τέλος; Μα, δεν υπάρχει τέλος (αλλά και αρχή) στην Κόλαση.
Το βιβλίο μιλάει για τον αλκοολισμό και τις συνέπειες αυτού, όχι μόνο τόσο στην σωματική υγεία του πότη, όσο κυρίως στην ψυχική.
Και έχω την εντύπωση ότι όλα αυτά που περιγράφονται στο βιβλίο, όλα όσα κάνει ο αλκοολικός πρωταγωνιστής ονόματι Ντον Μπέρναμ και όλα όσα σκέφτεται στις λίγες μέρες κατά τις οποίες διαδραματίζεται το μεθυσμένο δράμα του, είναι βγαλμένα από την ψυχή του συγγραφέα, είναι παρμένα από δικές του πράξεις και σκέψεις.
Όπως και να'χει, μιλάμε για ένα εξαιρετικό βιβλίο, που όμως δεν ψυχαγωγεί.
Εντάξει, υποθέτω ότι ως ένα βαθμό μπορεί να το κατανοήσω, αν ξαφνικά κάποιος εξαφανίσει όλα τα βιβλία από την Γη, με αποτέλεσμα να μην έχω να τίποτα να διαβάσω.
Here there is no fulfilled redemption.So, why read the book?Don Birnam, the protagonist, though he displays a great deal of intelligence and self-awareness, very seldom surprises.
He is often despicable and self-serving despite his underlying sincerity, and the reader very seldom expects any change from him or finds himself sympathizing with him.So why read the book?His family and friends enable him, lending him money, allowing him to pawn off his possessions.So why...The reader may not be able to sympathize, but he or she can certainly empathize.
My favorite line from the book: "Spinal tap, baby."I read the novel first, then saw the film.
Novel: super gay (sex in the church sheds with boyhood friend Melvin; getting kicked out of his fraternity for his big crush on a senior boy; the fiance who will NEVER become his wife; lots of closets, filled with booze, of course; a dream in which he is saved from a homophobic lynching by his brother).
Film: super hetero (Don kisses two girls [what?!] and even the swishy male nurse is butch [Bim is less lovable and less dangerous here]; outstanding female supporting roles, even though there is little basis in the book for them).
*****Don’t read this review if you don’t already know the premise behind The Lost Weekend (book or movie).*****“It’s all right for you to ruin your life; that’s up to you,” he said; "But you have no right to ruin someone else’s.”That’s Don Birnham’s brother Wick chastising Don one more time after the later has drunk his way through another weekend bender.
This is serious fiction that helps explain what makes an alcoholic do what he does.
It’s stark reality.During much of the book Don explains the psyche of an alcoholic.
He lives for time alone to get knock down drunk.
This novel has been on my TBR-list for a long time and I'm glad I've finally managed to read it.The book chronicles five days and nights in the life of Don Birnam, an alcoholic writer whom we follow on his 'lost weekend' of binge drinking and frantic search for booze and money.
There is something raw and honest in his personality, though, that ultimately made me care for him.The dissection of alcohol addiction and the main character's desperate predicament are still incredibly compelling more than seventy years after the novel's release.Billy Wilder directed a film adaptation of  The Lost Weekend in 1945.
Like a lot of these books, what plot there is can be summed up in a sentence: Don Birnam, an alcoholic, has dodged his brother's pleas to come away for a long weekend in the country, instead choosing to relapse into solitary drinking.
Unlike a couple of the books mentioned above, there's not much in the way of wise-ass platitudes, so Don Birnam isn't going to become an idol to college hipsters or party-try-hards any time soon in the way that Bukowski can do.
It probably goes without saying that if you're looking for action or lightning fast plotting, it's not the book for you.
But when Charles Jackson's "The Lost Weekend" was released in the mid-1940s, it was groundbreaking stuff.
Since that time, it has largely been forgotten, as has its author, who died of a prescription drug overdose in the late 1960s.Now Vintage has blown the dust off "The Lost Weekend" in an attractively-packaged new edition.
Even in an age where most of us are hard to shock, Jackson's tale of alcoholism and its effects contains some surprising and discomforting moments.
For the reader (especially one like me, who is not an alcoholic and has only distantly known one or two people who are), it's a dizzying and edifying ride.
Tekrar gün yüzü gördüğü için sevindiğimiz, unutulmuş klasiklerden.
Beklerken de, günün ilk içkisiyle pişmanlığının geçeceğinin ve keyfinin yerine geleceğinin bilinciyle pişmanlık duygusunu bile isteye gözden geçirip inceledi; kendini küçük düşürerek bir nevi kefaret ödüyormuş gibi, kendini sorgulaması için eline son bir fırsat geçmiş gibi, gerçeklerle yüzleşip neyle karşılaşacağını önceden bilirse bütün vaat edilmiş içkileri hak edecekmiş gibi.' Sf:62  'Bugün içebileceğini asla yarına bırakma, işte benim felsefem.' Sf: 116  '....Anna sordu:"Neden benimle sadece sarhoşken yatıyorsun?" Don keyifli bir kahkaha patlattı.
Anna'nın bunu sormaya hakkı olduğunu gayet iyi biliyordu; ama daha kötüsü olmadığı için rahatlayıp sanki fazlasıyla komik bir şeymiş gibi gülebildi ve neredeyse bağırarak, "Çünkü ben hep sarhoşum!" dedi.
Bunu takiben de şu soru geliyordu: Sen neden içiyordun?
Bunların hiçbir önemi yoktu, sadece tek bir gerçek vardı: İçiyordun ve bu seni öldürüyordu.
Billy Wider'ın aynı isimle sinemaya uyarladığı kitap "Kayıp Hafta Sonu" okudum,bitti. Açıkçası başta beklentimi karşılamayacak gibi düşünsem de kitabın bitmesiyle haksızlık yaptığıma karar verdim. Alkolizm batağına saplanmış karakterimizin,evde yalnız kaldığı bir haftasonu, geçmiş anıları, şimdiki zamandaki gerçeklikleri(korku, üzüntü, kızgınlık, bağımlılık vb. şeyler) ve gerçekleşmesi mümkün olmayan hayalleri arasında dönüp duran ruh halini okuyoruz. Özellikle yoksunluk çektiği çok da uzun olmayan zamanlarda yaşadığı hem fiziksel hem ruhsal şeyler, hem karakter hem de okuyucu için zorlayıcı oluyor, iç sıkıntıları yaratıyor. Kesinlikle gerçekçi bir bağımlılık hikayesiydi, bunu tamamen hissettiriyor. Filmi de en kısa zamanda izlemeyi düşünüyorum.
His self-loathing, his self-conscious, self-indulgent pity, the knowledge he has that he is at the brim of abyss and can't turn back yet knows he will, the repeat behavior, the delusions, the flashbacks- it can all be a lot to handle, and it was very easy to become lost in his maddening mind.Even without the alcoholism and more generally, the novel is sometimes so unbearably accurate that it is difficult to read:"He supposed he was only one of several million persons of his generation who had grown up and, somewhere around thirty, made the upsetting discovery that life wasn't going to pan out the way you'd always expected it would; and why this realization should have thrown him and not them-or not too many of them-was something he couldn't fathom.
This horrific Forties novel inspired the Forties movie starring Ray Milland. A career drunk himself, Jackson knew whereof he wrote; as a result this remains "the" book about long-term, not-so-social alcoholism for many of us. Read it -- but not for the faint-hearted.
An interesting and reflective book about intense drinking.
Neither a cautionary or a book to scare you away.
I suspect most who have read this book has either a drinking problem themselves or know someone who is deeply infected by the demon alcohol.
It is a good "Manhattan" novel, where it focuses on one, of many people in that New York City state-of-mind.
There are many painful moments while reading this book, but on the other hand I enjoyed getting into the lead character's head-space.
A horror narrative if there ever was one - A very good alcohol novel.
Τι πιο πρόσφορο για να εξαγριώσουμε έναν άνθρωπο άρρωστο από χαρά , από το να θελήσουμε να τον θεραπεύσουμε;
What an insightful look at alcoholism, especially given it was written in 1944. I’ll need to see how much attention this book got at the time, & how it was received. Not only was the main character an addict, there are heavy indications he was homosexual, & dealing with - or not - that as well. I’d love to find a review or two from back then to see how society processed all that was in this gem of a book.
This is the kind of book we are dealing with here in 'The Lost Weekend.' Charles Jackson channels his alcoholic, autobiographical self into the character of Don Birnam, a writer with his Great Novel bursting from his creative pores but forever enslaved to the brutal booze.
'The Lost Weekend' takes place over a period of four to five days, which finds Birnam perched upon the highs of a good drunk, spending his money and surrounded by friends, to the lows of suffering the shakes and screams of delirium tremens, admitted to Bellevue.
Jackson must have gone through all kinds of hell writing this with his endless whys always leading to the same mirage, his “self-quest in a blind alley.” Nightmarish, true, often overwhelming. Took me 10 days to read this short book—was that all?
Yikes. I probably would have enjoyed this more with a few whiskey tonics under my belt.
"Je dronk en je ging eraan dood. Waarom? Omdat alcohol iets was wat je niet kon beheersen, het kreeg je eronder. Waarom? Omdat je het punt had bereikt waar één glas te veel was en honderd niet genoeg" Wat een boek
I got interested in this book after I checked out the movie from a library.
It is a very good movie, except it has a happy-sappy Hollywood ending, which is nothing like the end of the book.
I'll end with my 2 favorite quotes from the book.The Lost Weekend p.
46"The remorse was the key to his despair, as it probably was to his salvation, should he ever be able to take hold of that key and use it."The Lost Weekend pp.78-79"The alcoholic, to get liquor, will do everything that the drug-addict will do to get drugs, everything but one: and that is murder.
JacksonThe lost Weekend has won the Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Actor in a Leading Role, Best Director, the Golden Globes for the same crucial categories, another Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay, the prize of the Cannes Festival for best actor and the Grand Prize of the said fiesta of cinema.All this recognition proves beyond doubt that the acting is resplendent, the story meaningful, poignant, powerful, dramatic, real, including a fight with self and others that is absorbing and worthwhile.Ray Milland is a virtuoso in the complex, challenging role of a man who is both the antihero and the hero of the screenplay, as he has to fight his urge to drink and eventually an inclination to self-destruct.
From the 1930s, this book is an unflinching first-person tale of, as the title says, Don Birnam's long weekend.
Instead of going out of town with his younger brother, he sneaks off and proceeds to make his way unsteadily through a 4-day weekend, demonstrating all the while his amazing skills at rationalizing.
What makes the book special is the realistic, harsh combination of self-honesty with a stark portrayal of how a man can rationalize myriad bad decisions.
Knowing he's choosing to do the wrong thing doesn't prevent him from doing it, and the damning self-pity is equally matched with his objectivity.
A great book, just recently republished in this edition.
The Lost Weekend is an alcohol fueled Odyssey, complete with a faithful Penelope, around 1936 New York City and into the past of the protagonist, Don Birnam.
Each of the six chapters documents one day in an increasingly nightmarish bender.
In the edition I read, published by Time, Inc., each chapter begins on a right hand (odd numbered) page; the left hand facing page is printed in solid black.
I found this a great graphic representation of the void which is Birnam’s state of mind at the beginning of each day – uncertain where he is on waking and having little or no memory of what happened the previous day.
As an alcoholic with many years of sobriety under by belt, this is maybe one of the most important books in my library. If ever you need a reminder of what the bad years were like, read this book and see if it strikes you the way it did me. Its literally full of accounts of what my thirties were like in the 00’s. Its extremely unusual that I would romanticize drinking these days, but if I ever do, I’ll be reading this book again to remind me what it was really like.
It's incredibly self indulgent. I kinda hate it but feel compelled. The prose is poked high with a pseudo "beat" self aware euphoria. I am reading it though as arrival work of propaganda. It won't please me on the end. It ain't supposed to. Now. I quit. It's really not good. Droning on and on about a narcissus. No wonder it worked as AA PROPAGANA.
I really loved this book. It's a classic about an alcoholic on a 5 day bender written in the 40's. It's really interesting because he's so introspective. Not really for everyone, but well written and good.
