https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311712.Dr_Sax
Μετά την πρώτη μου γνωριμία με τον Κέρουακ είχα υποσχεθεί ότι θα επιστρέψω γιατί λάτρεψα με την γραφή του. Ηθελα τόσο πολύ να μου αρέσει και αυτό το βιβλίο όμως δε μου άρεσε. Νομίζω βασικά δεν το κατάλαβα καν όσο και αν προσπάθησα.
Forget, for the moment, about On the Road: anyone about to read Kerouac should start here.
Here, his style is unencumbered by the editorial “corrections” that helped make On the Road a best-seller, but compromised its thematic execution – and the imagination that produced the mythical Dr. Sax is the same that, in the guise of Sal Paradise, seeks redemption.
Here, revealed in its purest realization, is the source of the loss and desperation that haunt On the Road, and lead to the physical, emotional and creative breakdown in Big Sur. As a portrayal of imagination and its inevitable, universal loss, it’s an inspirational heartbreak.
Oh God--what a magnificent book with language so beautiful that I have to gasp between sentences. Kerouac himself said it was his personal favorite (while drunk during an interview for Italian tv). No one--I mean, no one--has ever captured the terrible magic and mystery of childhood lost better than Ti Jean.
So if you think you like Kerouac because you liked On the Road, you may not like this book.
The genius of it is that he recounts--as if he were still a child--the moments in his childhood when he realized his childhood was ending, and that "Dr. Sax" was coming to carry him away into the rest of his life.
And he does so by recalling them using a child's unlimited sense of imagination.Yes, it's a difficult read, but I think half the thing that makes it difficult for some people is that they go into it with the wrong expectations.
It took me a couple of times to get through Dr. Sax.
Kerouac is my favorite and I feel a crazy connection with him, but for heaven's sake...
The times that I really started to enjoy it was when he left the Dr. Sax part (even though the imagery of the great snake, that might be made up of doves, is something that is very haunting to me)and talked more about his childhood, what it's like to be a kid.
Kerouac has such an amazing memory that all those weird little mind games that every kid grows out of, he's able to remember and portray on paper.

This actually applies to the audio-play (best I can describe a screenplay turned into an audiobook).Well, it was interesting.
Not bad, and it's hard to complain too much about a work that's that short.
It would have been a fairly good kid's fantasy story along the lines of something Neil Gaiman might have written, except Kerouac was deliberately messy with the narrative and added a lot of unnecessary strange language.
Of course, the reason this is called "Dr. Sax" instead of "Dr. Violin" is that we're talking jazz here, not classical music.
It's actually not bad, but it's not exceptionally good either.
This was a sad read for me, marking the time in my life when I definitively fell out of love with Kerouac. There are, to be sure, flashes of brilliance in Dr. Sax, but the overall meandering stream of consciousness (this time trying to recapture his adolescence) left me underwhelmed, without an authentic point of connection. Kerouac, for me, now becomes one of those authors that I like the idea of, more than the reality of reading their work.
Dr. Sax is a cool, surreal and proficient beat novel. The narrative dream logic glides through a world of magical realism surrounding the protagonist's life. Beautiful, sometimes profane, always interesting, I consider this Kerouac's best. A potent flight of the imagination.
Seems like Jack Kerouac can go wrong after all.
This novel showed me personally how wonderful ideas do not automatically guarantee a wonderful story.
Kerouac has always phrased his thoughts in a stream-of-consciousness style, yet I personally prefer his stories after their fair share of editing.
Kerouac has named this his favorite out of his own books and I can see why.
We see the world through the eyes of a child, somebody on the verge to growing up.
For the moment, however, the world is still full of magic as well as beauty and unexplored secrets.
Childhood certainly didn't feel like that.
I've been reading his work for the past sixteen years, studied Kerouac and his works in college as an undergrad, and I continue to read his books and love them.
I bought this book, read this book, and fell in love with it.
It contains such wild and accurate images of how a child sees the world and can only be best described like magical-realism much in the fashion of Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Franz Kafka.
I have read some reviews where readers were lost with the book, with the plot, and didn't know what to make of it.
Awesome read. Reminiscent of those kid days when you desperately want to grow up but your imagination still wants a play date. This is one of Kerouac's best works simply because it was a book that made you think and reflect on your won life/childhood and reexamine what was lost and gained in the process of "growing up."
Jack Kerouac's Doctor Sax is simply incredible, a beautiful, sometimes vulgar, always lyrical work that stunningly evokes the ups and downs of childhood. Told in experimental, stream of consciousness fragments, Keroauc's prose is full of vibrant and tender reflection, poetic density and endless, scattered inner rambling that I see as literary perfection.
The style which Jack Kerouac writes in, a self proclaimed 'spontaneous prose,' makes the early portions of the novel frustrating (indeed, not until I was able to figure out that the story of Doctor Sax is a momentary residence within the imagination of a young boy, I thought Kerouac's 1-2 page chapter "style" was one created from smoking a joint and writing only as long as the high lasted)...(I tell you this, dear reader, so that you may sit back and enjoy the devilishly good word turns).
Doctor Sax is yet another one of Kerouac’s experiments with free-verse autobiographical writing, and it tells the story of his childhood in Lowell, Massachusetts.
Yet while it might be about his younger years, it was actually written in 1952, when the author was thirty years old and living with William S.
Burroughs in Mexico City.You can tell he was living with Burroughs – the other great stalwart of the beat generation had clearly rubbed off on him, and much of his style can be seen in Kerouac’s words.
Fascinating and dense. It takes time to fully immerse yourself into the flow, and even then its tenuous. There are some genuinely great moments, specifically the bits on the flood. It mostly reads like a fever dream. Try to lose yourself in the insanity of it. Having now read two of Kerouacs childhood reminiscences (this along with Vanity of Duluoz) I think I prefer his more straight-forward approach in Vanity. Still, this is worth a look.
Fascinating and dense. It takes time to fully immerse yourself into the flow, and even then it´s tenuous. There are some genuinely great moments, specifically the bits on the flood. It mostly reads like a fever dream. Try to lose yourself in the insanity of it. Having now read two of Kerouac´s childhood reminiscences (this along with Vanity of Duluoz) I think I prefer his more straight-forward approach in Vanity. Still, this is worth a look.
An unreadable book. It's the same several scenes over and over and over and over again in a rambling and rhythmless stream-of-conciousness 'style'. If you love love love Kerouac, maybe you can take this hazy alcoholic spluge-tome, and maybe you'll even convince yourself that you like it, but I really liked Jack Kerouc once, and this was the beginning of the end for me.
I love Kerouac, and this is hands down my favorite Kerouac book ever.
I remember this wobbling along uncertainly until the last chapter or two, where Kerouac finds his feet and cracks off some of those uniquely revelatory lines that I treasure him for.
It's funny how one of Kerouac's most beloved works - one he himself labelled as his best - failed to grip me like it was presumably supposed to.
Maybe I'm just continuously looking for what made me fall in love with On The Road all those years ago rather than appreciate his works for their individuality.
Maybe I just couldn't connect with this particular piece.
After all, I have read other novels by him and have been left both conflicted and satisfied.
Maybe he's just like every other author, where the readers don't adore every single book.
Even if the author is your favorite
A fascinating part of "Dr. Sax" is the French dialogue among Kerouac and his family -- with Kerouac immediately providing an English rendition in addition to the French.The book is written from the perspective of an adult -- Kerouac in 1952 in Mexico City -- looking back and reflecting upon his childhood and early adolescence from the standpoint of his ongoing difficult life as a writer struggling for publication and combating his own inner demons of drugs and alcohol.
I have read better Kerouac books and have been more engrossed than i found myself with Doctor. Sax. I can imagine at the time of publication it would be more stand out-ish, certainly given the free flow written style. Still it was an enjoyable read mixing spooky and tender moments...a pleasant mix of childhood memoir with fantasy.
and he was never invincible and he was never predictable
French-Canadian mythology in the United States. Done in the style of Word-Jazz. It is rare to see a cultural autobiography such as this rare number from Jack Kerouac, who claimed to owe everything he did to his French-Canadian heritage. Brilliant balancing of Joual and English. Acadian flourish layered over Yank dialect. Poetry and fantasy interspliced. Darkness shining through the light. The story is cryptic. Dream and reality fluctuate without warning. Dr. Sax appears and disappears. Should you read the book? I think so.
Wild, odd surreal book that is a sort of memoir of Kerouac growing up and this dream like story of Dr. Sax, who is an odd mix of boogeyman, pulp hero and mad scientist.The two parts are both interesting, but don't quite connect well to each other and Kerouac will move rather abruptly from one to another.Loved Dr. Sax as a character, as he feels like the Shadow as played by William S. Burroughs, and made me wish Kerouac had tried to write his own version of a pulp novel using him.
I gave this 3 stars because it was interesting, and helped me understand alternative ways of thinking about narrative and memory. I was an imaginative child as well, so I kind of get it.I wouldn't say I enjoyed it. Meandering, incoherent weirdness. Not something I would ever read again.
Another book about Kerouac's haunted, dark, sad yet happy childhood. You really get a feel for the town of Lowell, MA.
Kerouac embellishes images from childhood dreams, interweaves with Depression-era Americana, and creates evil characters more sinister than any old horror movie.
As I read the book, I wanted it to finish as soon as possible.
But David Dempsey (1959) of the New York Times was closer to how I feel about the work:"Dr. Sax" is not only bad Kerouac; it is a bad book.
I enjoyed Maggie Cassidy and On the Road, but I have struggled to commit to Kerouac's Wake Up. All I can say is that after this book, I think Jack and I need a little time apart.
Doctor Sax is yet another one of Kerouac’s experiments with free-verse autobiographical writing, and it tells the story of his childhood in Lowell, Massachusetts.
Yet while it might be about his younger years, it was actually written in 1952, when the author was thirty years old and living with William S.
Burroughs in Mexico City.You can tell he was living with Burroughs – the other great stalwart of the beat generation had clearly rubbed off on him, and much of his style can be seen in Kerouac’s words.
