https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28405.Time_Regained

This is a testimony of having reached the end of marcel Proust’s La Recherche du temps perdu, as scheduled in The Year of Reading Proust 2013.
I also listened, while reading, to the 111 CDs of the Thélème audio edition.If the novel was written in bed with the light from one single side lamp, I have read it in bed with one single side lamp.
I can read other books no matter where, but Proust’s work I could only read it in a very secluded environment, with “recogimiento” or retrospection.
I am very much looking forward to these.If I avoided secondary readings I read however other Proustian books.
685. À la recherche du temps perdu VII: Le Temps retrouvé = Time Regained (In Search of Lost Time, #7), Marcel ProustVolume Seven: Time Regainedتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2007 میلادیدر جستجوی زمان از دست رفته - مارسل پروست (مرکز) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 1992 میلادیعنوان: در جستجوی زمان از دست رفته، کتاب اول: طرف خانه سوان؛ نویسنده: مارسل پروست؛ مترجم: مهدی سحابی؛ تهران، نشر مرکز، 1369، شابک: 9643054810؛ چاپ دهم 1389؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسه - سده 20 مکتاب نخس
À la recherche du temps perdu VII: Le Temps retrouvé = Time Regained (In Search of Lost Time, #7), Marcel ProustVolume Seven: Time Regainedتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2007 میلادیدر جستجوی زمان از دست رفته - مارسل پروست (مرکز) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 1992 میلادیعنوان: در جستجوی زمان از دست رفته، کتاب اول: طرف خانه سوان؛ نویسنده: مارسل پروست؛ مترجم: مهدی سحابی؛ تهران، نشر مرکز، 1369، شابک: 9643054810؛ چاپ دهم 1389؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسه - سده 20 مکتاب نخست: طرف خانه سوان؛ کتاب دوم: در سایه دوشیزگان شکوفا؛ کتاب سوم: طرف گرمانت 1؛ کتاب چهارم: طرف گرمانت 2؛ کتاب پنجم: سدوم و عموره؛ کتاب ششم اسیر؛ کتاب هفتم آلبرتین گمشده (گریخته)؛ کتاب هشتم: زمان بازیافته؛ توصیخ اینکه کتاب سوم در ایران دو جلد است برای همین زمان بازیافته جلد هشتم شده استمبهوتم از توان اندیشه و توانایی بشر، لبه ها و مرز این توانایی تا کجاست، واژه ی «تداعی معنی» آیا برازنده ی این تعبیر تواند بود، یا بهتر همان است که بگویم یادآوری و بازیابی خاطره ها و دانسته هایی که در یکی از نشانه ها شریک هستند.
indeed nothing is more painful than this contrast between the mutability of people and the fixity of memory, when it is borne in upon us that what has preserved so much freshness in our memory can no longer possess any trace of that quality in life, that we cannot now, outside ourselves, approach and behold again what inside our mind seems so beautiful, what excites in us a desire (a desire apparently so individual) to see it again, except be seeking it in a person of the same age, by seeking it, that is to say, in a different person"he loses me halfway through, because of course, he is using this as a justification for continuing to seek out "a little amorous dalliance with young girls in bloom", admitting "i should always enjoy being invited to meet young girls, poor girls if possible, to whom i could give pleasure by quite small gifts, without expecting anything of them in return except that they should serve to renew within me the dreams and the sadnesses of my youth, and perhaps, one improbable day, a single chaste kiss."aren't the po-po already watching him because of all his dandling in the last book??
I do not view my loves the way Proust did, but much of it I recognize in parts of pain and parcels of profundity, and will color my effects forever on.
And I see fit to value it very, very much.I know that I am far too quick in my finishing for most, so for those in the midst, those in the beginning, those on the cusp of finishing, those who have finished within the last month or so and still bear the flitting of certain pages on the borders of that electric spitfire of the brain, those who made their last way long ago enough to be thinking on another journey.
(Jean Béraud, Le Bal)Uma review terá como objetivo incentivar, quem a lê, a ler (ou não ler) o livro a que ela se refere. Também recordar uma leitura (adoro ler reviews de um livro que já li), ou apreciar outras visões de uma obra. Gostava muito de conseguir conquistar leitores para Em Busca do Tempo Perdido e poder desfrutar das suas opiniões. Consciente que não tenho arte para essa missão, socorro-me da do Nelson Zagalo... "Só pela arte podemos sair de nós mesmos (...) é o caminho em sentido c
Não sei - temo que a paixão me iluda - se Em Busca do Tempo Perdido é o livro da minha vida.
Não será o que mais prazer me deu ler - embora muito tivesse rido, também chorei como uma condenada -.
Alison Bechdel diz (em Fun Home) "que chegamos à meia-idade no dia em que percebemos que nunca iremos ler Em Busca do Tempo Perdido."Não!
"Cada pessoa que nos faz sofrer pode ser relacionada por nós com uma divindade da qual não é mais que um reflexo fragmentário e o seu último grau, divindade (Ideia) cuja contemplação nos causa imediatamente alegria, em lugar da dor que sentíamos.
After 2000 some-odd pages, you made it to the end of La Recherche.
Your reward is a breath-taking description of Paris under falling bombs during WW I, one of the most incredible passages that Proust ever wrote, "La Bal des Masques" (The Masked Ball), and an end to the most incredible literary voyage ever attempted by an author.
He, like Mozart and Bach, literally died with the pen in his hand finishing his blessed cahiers (notebooks) in a race against death.
It is a perfect ending to one of the greatest stories ever put on paper and a worthy finish.
I did it.May 2014 – October 2017
Time Regained wasn't the strongest of the novels, but like red-headed step-child of Recherche, The Captive, what this novel lacks in straight-forward appeal it makes up for in being essential to the over-all structure of Recherche as the novel, and each book being just part of the whole.
On a similar note, before reading this, about a two weeks ago, a co-worker, Dana, asked me to tell her if she would enjoy this book.
But cheap gimmicks are bullshit and if I have learned nothing else from Proust it's that all the wit and cleverness in the world is a farce, a waste of time, a spectacle.
emphasized an impression's importance -- the maybe-too-famous madeleine, the pink hawthorns in bloom, the little phrase in the sonata, the aeroplane climbing the sky, his grandmother's death, Albertine asleep, slipping on uneven paving stones, sitting in a library room conceiving this cathedral dress of an Arabian Nights-like masterpiece -- ie, all these memorable solo ecstastic moments of sensory intensity rendered in riveting and superclear language, compared to long scenes in society of always perceptive yet oft-soporific calibrations of character.
Again, this was really just an introduction to a text I'm sure I'll return to throughout life thanks to its wisdom and insight, its structure and exemplary language, its world and its riches.I've collected impressions of all volumes (started reading August 17, 2012) as one long review of In Search of Lost Time here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Proust’a cevaben;Evet hayat “gerçekten yazdığın gibi” ve kendimde okuduğum kelimeler, “aynı senin yazdığın kelimeler” gibi.
But...since I was far from tired after just reading that one percent and I didn't want to start something new and also feeling a bit bereft, as one does at the end of a long work one has been immersed in, I went back and skimmed the Overture and Combray sections of Swann's Way, so perhaps I am a very tiny bit of a Proustian after all.
It becomes implanted in your head and colors how you view other works by other artists with what I've heard called a Proustian lens.
We see old friends aged and passing on; nothing lasts forever.Proust plays with the nature of time and memory in ways that are subtle and often involuntary; memories triggered by chance meetings and sensations.On a lighter note, the BDSM came as a bit of a surprise and I thought I'd wandered into Edmund White's memoirs or a Parisian shirt ripper!
Proust's genius is, for me, the way he grasped this tendency and expressed it so exactly.
He seemed to understand the nature of time and memory in human consciousness in ways we are still now only beginning to grasp.
kayıp zamanın izinde'nin yedinci ve son cildinde yazar olmak istediğini başından beri bildiğimiz kahramanının bazen tembelliğinden çoğu zaman da yetersiz-yeteneksiz olduğunu düşündüğü için sürekli ertelediği kararı verdiğini görüyoruz: nihayet yazacaktır kahramanımız marcel.
bu yüzden de, geçmişleri, zihinleri tarafından 'banyo edilmediği' için işe yaramayan sayısız klişeyle dolup taşar." üstelik: "sanatın açıklığa kavuşturduğu şey, yalnız kendi hayatımız değil, başkalarının da hayatıdır, çünkü tıpkı ressam için renk gibi, yazar için de üslup, teknik değil, görüş meselesidir."marcel'in yazar olma isteğinin, karara-kararlılığa dönüşme süreci eserinin, kayıp zamanın izinde'nin yapısını da belirliyor öte yandan: marcel'in hayat hikayesiyle, hayata dair müthiş incelemesi-öğretisi iç içe.
What Didn't Happen In 1927ANCHORMAN: And now we're going over to Paris, where crowds have been gathering since early evening waiting for the midnight release of Le temps retrouvé, with pre-ordered sales already totalling more than eleven million copies!
I can see three Orianes, five Charlus, eight - no, nine - Odettes, and, excuse me, who are you sir?MAN IN FANCY DRESS: Je suis le docteur Brichot.JOURNALIST: Ah, of course, the stethoscope, so silly of me.
Merci monsieur.MAN IN FANCY DRESS: De rien.JOURNALIST: There has been frantic betting on which characters will die in the final volume.
Wow, Proust kills it with this last book in his masterpiece In Search of Lost Time.
I loved Proust's reflections on literary and artistic creation, reality, memory, pain, death and time -- and how in 'Time Regained' he draws all his themes together.
My same need or desire to go back and read 'In Search of Lost Time' again is similar to my desire to go back into my own past and re-experience my youth with the knowledge I have now.
The genius of Proust is his ability to transport the reader to that point where we recognize the art within our own lives at the intersection of our memory and immediate experiences.
PER MOLTO TEMPO, SONO ANDATO A LETTO PRESTOUn sogno lungo un giornoSono sette e un solo sogno. Sette meraviglie e una sola.Questa, in particolare, è anche manuale di vita, di analisi, ricerca, conoscenza. E felicità.
Proust has become my companion and to think I will not be in his company during any part of the day almost makes me want to go back to the beginning and begin again!This last volume has, “Time Regained,” and also, “A Guide to Proust,” which is more an alphabetical index of characters, people, places and themes.
Allow him to guide you and you will be rewarded with one of the great reading experiences of your life.There are certain themes which run through the novels and the Narrator always tries to bring these into play.

no awards for you yet: now you must read it in French.this is another much later later later later addition: having fun right now reading a graphic adaptation of volume 1: Swann's Way- review is here: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2..., so maybe you want to read this book first or that book first...?this is another much later later later addition: if i am recalling the very beginning of proust correctly, there is a passage connecting a 'magic lantern' and sleeping disorientation, freedom physical, from temporal, locales, and some indication this dreaming status is what he tries to investigate, offer, recreate for the reader.
The Search is a thematic thread that begins almost immediately in the novel with the famous madeleine scene (and who knew that this small part was actually an adumbration of the novel’s key theme?) and reaches a peak with a final discovery that takes place some 200 pages from the end of the book.
For how often can I say that I actually experience certain parts of my life differently (and with greater, fuller satisfaction) as a consequence of reading a book?I didn’t start out so smitten with the book’s final volume.
Time as it flows and returns to and is shot through this prism, and what he is able to reclaim from the slow eclipse of his allotted years, are the real subjects of this novel; and in the end it presents a way out, a trapdoor in the false bottom of the prison of time, a solution to another quandary of Nabokov’s, “the utter degradation, ridicule, and horror of having developed an infinity of sensation and thought within a finite existence.”A book imminently concerned with Time is of course imminently concerned with duration, and the density of In Search of Lost Time is a necessary component of its attempt to recapture life not as it was lived, but as it is recalled:”Each individual therefore- and I was myself one of these individuals- was a measure of duration for me, in virtue of the revolutions which like some heavenly body he had accomplished not only on his own axis but also around other bodies, in virtue, above all, of the successive positions which he had occupied in relation to myself...
It drove me nuts because Proust would delve into Swann’s thoughts, feelings, and private actions even though the novel was written from the first person perspective of Marcel and Swann would never ever have, in the polite world of French Society, divulged any of these things to Marcel, neither Marcel the child nor even Marcel the young society man.
It is an effort, an effort that he refers to not as searching but as creating:Il est clair que la vérité que je cherche n’est pas en lui, mais en moi… Je pose la tasse et me tourne vers mon esprit.
Nunca tentei ler "No caminho de Swan" antes..."Em busca do tempo perdido" exige-nos uma certa disponibilidade para a sua leitura, até porque será desta forma que se conseguirá usufruir, desfrutar deste livro.Testemunho da própria biografia de Proust, "EBTP" foca em muito os salões elegantes, os teatros e óperas da sociedade francesa, com as suas inúmeras personagens (muitas delas inspiradas em pessoas reais dessa mesma sociedade) numa abordagem a este mundo fino mas também algo decadente, através da observação de uma visão artística, numa contemplação estética (do mundo), do próprio autor, que discorre o seu discurso, de igual modo, em temáticas como a memória, o esquecimento, o pensamento, o amor, a beleza, as artes, a homossexualidade ou a política, do Tempo.Ao longo de 3282 páginas, há uma imensidão de excertos, passagens, instantes de introspecção do próprio narrador que nos deixam simplesmente...
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0076qw1Description: Paris is ravaged by the Great War. Marcel despairs at his own failures, but the simplest of discoveries awakens astonishing possibilities. Stars James Wilby.Revisiting, via BBC R4x, all the books in remembrance, our world has altered too.
Oh yes we are.......but the readers of their own selves...That too....my book being merely a sort of magnifying glass like those which the optician at Combray used to offer his customers...10x magnification!—it would be my book, but with its help I would furnish them with the means of reading what lay inside themselves.
All too true, alas....So that I should not ask them to praise me or to censure me...Praise.but simply to tell me whether “it really is like that,”...It is.i should ask them whether the words that they read within themselves are the same as those which I have written They are, maestro, they are.
There is some amusing and shocking content in this book, which I'll avoid spoiling at all costs, but three instances stand out: The famous last party, where a justifiably legendary sea change occurs; the very end of the plot's time-line, when the narrator somehow unites seemingly every disparate thread of this winding novel in the body of a surprising new character; and most of all, pages 281-332 of this volume, the moment when the narrator awakens to the possibility of writing a novel.
It was the slowest going I've ever had in reading, but my goodness, if you've ever thought about changing this book from an ambition to an accomplishment, you have to go for it.
نمیتونم راجع به خود کتاب بنویسمپس راجع به حسم مینویسم،سخته چهارماه هر روز همراه کتاب بوده باشی و به 
نویسنده، فقط به دلیل عادتی که ریشه در زبان غیرصمیمی دیباچهها و تقدیمنامهها دارد میگوید: «خوانندهی من».در حالی که در واقع، هر خوانندهای، زمانی که کتابی را میخواند، خوانندهی خودش است.کتاب نویسنده چیزی جز نوعی وسیلهی بصری نیست که او در اختیار خواننده میگذارد تا با آن بتواند آنچه را که شاید بدون آن کتاب نمیتوانست در خودش ببیند، درک کند.محک حقیقت کتاب این است که خواننده آنچه را که کتاب میگوید در خودش باز بشناسد.باور نميشه كه تونستم اين كار عظيم و به اتمام برسونم اين كتاب ارزش بارها خوندن و داره چون ي
نویسنده، فقط به دلیل عادتی که ریشه در زبان غیرصمیمی دیباچه‌ها و تقدیم‌نامه‌ها دارد می‌گوید: «خواننده
--Time Regained (In Search of Lost Time Volume VII)NotesSynopsisA Guide to Proust:ForewordIndex of CharactersIndex of PersonsIndex of PlacesIndex of Themes
