https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5342.The_Life_of_Our_Lord
Dickens removes Christ's miracles and all messages about sin and repentance, altering the Lord's mission on earth to comforting the downtrodden--making them feel good and helping them to greater prosperity.
The Life of Our Lord is Dickens' appropriation of Christ's life and work to that end.
That said, do not be misled into sharing this story with children as "gospel truth," but it makes an interesting and valuable case study in the popular atheism/Averroism of the high Victorian era.
I've heard that critics hated this book, and I'm not at all surprised.
This book should not be stacked up against Dickens' other works of art.
It was clearly never meant to be a great literary masterpiece, and you can't expect many critics to get that.
The scriptures can be daunting to wade through, but this book puts the New Testament in much simpler terms.
I absolutely intend to give this to my kids (when they're about 8 or so) to help them begin to foster a love for scripture stories.
Favorite part"That there might be some good men to go about with Him, teaching people, Jesus Christ chose twelve poor men to be His companions.
The most miserable, the most ugly, deformed, wretched creatures that live, will be bright Angels in Heaven if they are good here on earth.
If they are bad, think that they would have been better if they had had kind friends, and good homes, and had been better taught.
And when people speak ill of the poor and miserable, think how Jesus Christ went among them, and taught them, and thought them worthy of His care.
As others have pointed out, this was never meant to be published nor considered a literary work.
Nevertheless it is fascinating for showing the almost completely overlooked Christian faith of Dickens.
Also of interest is Dickens simplifying the ideas of Jesus for his children, which show Dickens's thorough understanding of the teaching of Christ.
According to the author of God and Charles Dickens: Rediscovering the Christian Voice of a Classic Author all families in Victorian England had at least two books on their shelves, a Bible and a gospel harmony.
Just remember it was meant for Dickens's children, and is beyond criticism.
But it is definitely a summary of the life of Christ written to be at not only a child's level (thus some childlike summaries and much simplified explanations and assertions), but to his OWN children's level.
There are occasional parts where Dickens is trying to teach his children good principles and actions based on the Savior's life.
One of the most eloquent writers could have written a much more beautiful testimony of his beliefs about the Savior for others to read.
It is no literary masterpiece in the least, but from it I was able to gain how much Dickens loved the Savior, believed in him, and wanted his children to share in that love and belief.
Charles Dickens wrote this for children, and I think I loved the sentiment just as much if not more than the content: "My dear children, I am very anxious that you should know something about the History of Jesus Christ.
And as he is now in Heaven, where we hope to go, and all meet each other after we are dead, and there be happy always together." I loved the way he wrote of the miracles of Christ: "I wish that you would remember that word, because I shall use it again, and I should like you to know that it means something which is very wonderful and which could not be done without God's leave and assistance."At the end he gives a beautiful reminder of what it means to be a Christian, and how remembering the life and lessons of Christ will help us to act in His name, provide hope, forgiveness and peace.
I was very disappointed with this book for many reasons.
First, it does not feel like a Dickens book.
I know, he wrote it for a young audience, but his voice was missing.
I loved the complexity of the plot and characters in his novels, all of that was missing, and this book is nothing more than a glossed, overly simplified chronology of Christ's life.
Perhaps most disturbing was he removed Christ's divinity and mission from the book, and in that regard he completely missed the heart of the Christian faith and the message of the four gospels.
this is a easy read that's a great introduction to the life of Christ. I read some of it out loud to my husband. I enjoyed the morals that Dickens shares about what we can learn from the miracles of Christ. I think this is a great book to introduce kids to the life of Christ.However, I would use this as a starting point and would continue in more reading about Christ in the scriptures and more scholarly texts like Jesus the Christ by James E Talmage. Overall, an enjoyable read, great during the holidays.
Beautiful retelling of the life of Christ. Just beautiful. This will be a yearly-- maybe even monthly read for me.
Very interesting to read this expression of belief given the context of Dickens upbringing, education and life in Anglican, Victorian England. Dickens, from what I can ascertain never professed religious belief himself. He was a harsh critic of the social injustice of his day, often inflicted by professed religionists. He did, however often voice tender faith thru some of the most worthy characters in his masterpieces. It is revealing that he wanted the world to see that he desired his children to feel a reality of deity in the Life of Jesus.
Shaun and I read this out loud together to help us celebrate Christmas. It was beautifully simple and wonderfully focused. I think it will become an annual Christmastime tradition for us. Reread 2012Reread 2013Reread 2014 Reread 2015Reread 2016 - Luke really loved this book as we read it this year. He asked for it at bedtime and even brought it to me during the day. It is a great way to feel the Christmas spirit.
The tone of this book is just like a father speaking to his children, tucking them in with a bedtime story. It is a touching and personal retelling of the story of the Savior's life, with Dickens' testimony interwoven. We like to read this with the kids at Christmas time.
I loved this book. I found it at a library book sale about thirty years ago, when I was still in college. I kept it for many years. Then, I donated it so someone else could discover Charles Dickens and/or Jesus Christ.
Charles Dickens wanted his children to understand who Jesus was, so he wrote, almost as letters, his take on the life of Christ. It isn't perfect, and theologians might wish to alter it to be more scripturally sound, but I still enjoyed and appreciated his effort. The copy I stumbled on has beautiful lettering, copies of Dicken's own handwriting, and colorful flowers to gussy it up a bit. It also explains that the family didn't want it published early on, but later descendants deemed it worthwhile.
I liked that this was a quick review of Jesus's life, and imagining Dickens reading it to his children every Christmas made it much better.
His son respected his father's wishes but did not lay such a restriction on his own son who published the book in 1933.The book follows the gospel accounts, retelling the many events and teachings in Jesus's life with simple language.
If we do this, and remember the life and lessons of Our Lord Jesus Christ, and try to act up to them, we may confidently hope that God will forgive us our sins and mistakes, and enable us to live and die in peace.
I love that he wrote this for his children, that he refused to have it published, that it follows so closely the scriptures, that he adds little side notes for his kids, that his great-grandson permitted it to be published and so it's made available to us.
These criticisms neglect to consider Dickens' purpose in writing - to make the gospels accessible to children.
Young, who wrote it for his children and had not intended to have it published in the first place.Some condemn it for not being of the same quality as Dickens' other works, nor for representing his famous writing style.
This isn't a book I thought I would ever see because I've never heard of it before, but I came across it and thought I'd give it a shot.It was charming to think that Dickens was reading this to me, as there are spots where it's clear he's adding personal inflections and addendums for the sake of his children, rather than straight from the Bible. I always respected the man for reflecting what I believe to be true Christian values, so I saw the book as endearing, even if I'm no longer "God-fearing" myself.
Love reading this with my children. Such a sweet reminder to share my testimony of our Savior with my own children.
I have always wanted to read this, my favorite author impressed me again. I was touched by his desire to share his testimony with his family. Such a beautiful testimony of Christ.
I'm so glad I read this during the Christmas season, to remember the true meaning- Christ and all he went through for us.
I liked this book and it left me pondering on how I want to teach my own children about the Savior.
His opening line, "My Dear Children, I am very anxious that you should know something about the History of Jesus Christ." stayed with me throughout my read.
Such a tender statement and as Dickens recounts the Savior's life on earth in this book you read sweet notes, like this opening line, to his children throughout.
I love how he comes full circle through his summary which resonates again the opening line of the text.The reason why I gave this book only 3 stars: This is Dickens interpretation of the New Testament accounts of Jesus Christ's life and ministry.
I can't decide whether to review this as a religious book or as a life-help book.
As a religious book, it is not superb.
It says, "His father's name was Joseph ...", but quotes the guards at his crucifixion: "Surely this was the Son of God!" However, as a book to help one through life, it easily rates four or five stars.
Dickens tells the story of the life of the Savior, as given in the scriptures.
More than two dozen warm, personal paintings depict moment from His life.
This is a wonderful volume that would surely serve as a family Christmas tradition.
Don’t confuse Dickens for Spurgeon or Calvin.
His summary of the gospel and Christ’s life has significant holes (Jesus’ divinity, sin, repentance), or at least questionable distortions.
Jesus is more great example and teacher than very Son of God. Further, one can’t help recognizing that regardless of the many noble characteristics of Jesus he highlights and commends to his children, Dickens failed to internalize or abide by them as evidenced via his infidelity and abandonment of his wife.
On the other hand, the emphasis he places on Christ’s ministry to the downtrodden ought to be celebrated and mimicked by the church.
This is the theme Dickens so winsomely depicts in nearly all of his greatest fiction.
Veľmi jednoducho a prístupne prerozpávané evanjeliá a Kristov život od Betlehema až po Golgotu. Dickens vysvetľuje deťom podstatu kresťanstva a Ježišovho učenia a táto knižka môže byť príjemným spoločným čítaním s deťmi v čase adventu, pôstu aj inokedy. Kapitolky sú krátke, takže sa dá čítanie pekne podeliť. Áno, niektoré faktografické informácie nesedia, ale to sa prípadne dá prispôsobiť. Škoda, že Dickens tam nevložil viac seba, ale na jeho obhajobu treba povedať, že dielo nikdy neplánoval vydať.
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/3071012.htmlA not terribly remarkable re-telling of the Gospels for children, mainly interesting because, in line with the author’s wishes, it was not published until after the last of his children had died, 64 years after Dickens’ death and almost 90 years after it was first written. Readers will be interested to learn that Sunday was the Jewish sabbath, along with other helpful observations.
This is a beautifully written story of Jesus for children. Charles Dickens was not perfect, nor am I, no one is except Jesus. This story is to set our children on a path to do the very best they can, to live and grow in a way that is pleasing to God. Also, it is to help them learn to rely on God in times of trouble and confusion. We all need direction, compassion, and a loving friend when we are crushed by circumstances.
This is nice. It's pretty much Dickens repeating several stories from the Gospels in a way his children would understand, adding some commentary. I think he embellishes on a couple aspects - he seems to think that Mary Magdalene and Mary of Bethany (Martha and Lazarus's sister) are the same person - but there's nothing heretical that I could find.
I really enjoyed listening to Dickens' reselling of the story of Christ (audible). It's a little old fashioned, and I think some of it was difficult for my children to understand, but I'm sure they caught much of it. I do think Dickens did not place as much emphasis on Christ as the son of God as the original scriptures do. Dickens speaks more of being "good" so we can go to heaven after death.
I had some theological differences with the way Dickens interpreted the scriptures. However, overall I thought what he did was sweet for his children. I thought it was really interesting that he never let this be published in his lifetime. It is always good to focus on the Savior during Christmas.
