https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227273.Nathan_Coulter
My father, age fourteen, in the early 1950s went to see what was taking his father so long to feed the horses and found his lifeless body on the ground, tongue extended, looking like a grotesque version of the man that had dominated his life since he was first old enough to follow him out to the fields.
Grandmother Leota (Chester) Keeten and Grandfather Dean Leo Keeten shortly after they are married.Grandpa Coulter worked hard his whole life and Nathan’s Daddy is a chip off the old block.
Nathan Coulter: Wendell Berry's Creation of the Port William CommunityThis novel was chosen as the Moderator's Choice by Laura Webber, "The Tall Woman", for On the Southern Literary Trail for December, 2014. 1To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven:2a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;3a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;4a time to weep, and a time t
My mother thought eloping to Columbus, Mississippi, where the age for marriage without parental consent was younger than in Alabama, was a good idea at the time.So I came to be raised in the home of my grandparents, just as young Nathan Coulter and his sibling Brother were.
During my visits there I learned my appreciation for the land in the country, the country life, the independent way Mama Ora lived and how my Grandfather came alive with his stories of growing up in Union Hill.Mama Ora's egg custard pie was smooth as cream.
I think one of the best compliments one can pay an author is to say I felt like I was right there, in Port Williams his made up town, and with Nathan and all his other characters.
At the fair watching Uncle Burly and his ducks, picking tobacco and watching the fight between his brother and father.
The book opens with Nathan and his older brother always together, and then felt the anguish of Nathan as his brother outgrows their relationship.
The love for the land, the hard work of his father and grandparents and the deaths in his family.
This is the first book I have read by Berry, but it will definitely not be my last.
A reverence for the land is evident in Wendell Berry's first novel, set in the fictional Port William.
Narrated by Nathan Coulter, this is a 1930s coming-of-age story of a boy in a Kentucky family who grow tobacco on a riverside farm.
Nathan's father and grandfather are hard men whose lives revolve around working the farm, driving themselves and their family members.
I enjoyed Wendell Berry's beautiful, thoughtful writing and will be looking to read more of his work in the future.This is the December Moderator's Choice for the "On the Southern Literary Trail" group.
When life is work, the rest of the details have to fit around the long days spent farming tobacco, hunting racoons, and fishing. That's basically what this book is, and well written.I have always meant to read Wendell Berry and would like to read more.
A nice break from the typical coming of age books I tend to read that have hard lines; journeys that spiral into dysfunctional behavior.
Lessons from all involved, but by far the most entertaining ones come from his uncle.......you know, the typical things you learn from an uncle; how to dodge work and take up fishing, how to turn a quick dollar, escapades involving pool halls and whiskey, coon and duck hunting, maneuvering with riverboat dwellers who double as evangelical lighthouses.In the blank spaces of the story are also themes of aging, generational struggles, the value of hard work in an agricultural context, coping mechanisms in life, and the connection we have to "our land".
I think I love Wendell Berry's books so much because they always make me feel like there's much more to life than my petty little concerns.
Nature girl I am not, but even just reading about the working of the land, the turning of the seasons, and good people maintaining connections with land and family makes me feel the whole "circle of life" thing.
Some of the most important things here are not spoken or described, they are there to discover if the reader chooses.
Lordamercy, what a good book.
Like William Faulkner Wendell Berry created his own patch of fictional land and started to people it with his personages.The colourful characters of Nathan Coulter are the first literary settlers in this land.“They’ll grieve in this old land until you’d think they were going to live on it forever, then grieve some more because they know damn well they’re not going to live on it forever. And nothing’ll stop them but a six-foot hole.”The book is a brilliant coming-of-age story – a very special tale of fathers and sons.
I enjoyed this very short novel made up of five chapters, but the only thing holding it together is the title character. Each chapter is a vignette describing an event or scene in the young boy's life. I suppose it is a coming of age piece, at least that is what the fly leaf says. If you like Southern literature, this just might be your cup of sour mash.
“Uncle Burley said hills always looked blue when you were far away from them. That was a pretty color for hills; the little houses and barns and fields looked so neat and quiet tucked against them. It made you want to be close to them. But he said that when you got close they were like the hills you’d left, and when you looked back your own hills were blue and you wanted to go back again. He said he reckoned a man could wear himself out going back and forth.”
It’s a novel about accepting this land legacy or not for working with the land brings responsibilities and sacrifice; it necessitates unflinching dedication and this process can’t be rushed because if there is one thing that we can be certain of it is that our time to own it, work it and lead offspring along its arduous path will come when it is meant to not before.
He ain t the boss he is the boss s son,But he s going to be boss when the boss is done Passing on the land from one generation to another is as daunting a prospect for the older generation as it is for the younger one.
Once we’d passed him we could never be behind again.
Nathan is profoundly influenced by his idiosyncratic, free-spirited Uncle Burley (one of Berry's best characters.)This is one of his earlier novels, and it's clear that his vision of Port William was not fully developed yet.
If you read the more recent novels, Kate and her son Danny play a bigger role.A very nice feature of the book is a map of Port William showing where all of the characters live, and a family tree of the main characters.
More like 3.5 stars (and again, Goodreads, please update your software--a 3.5 is vastly different from a 3). Kind of interesting to go back and read some of Berry's earlier stuff. Next to Jayber Crow and Hannah Coulter, Nathan Coulter--in my opinion--does not compare. Doesn't have that sleepy quality; in fact, it seems almost cut up and choppy. Never felt like I knew Nathan as I did Jayber and Hannah. If anything, Burley steals the show. Whatever the case, I press on with reading the rest of Berry's fiction, as it's marvelous.
Exactly what I needed this week, being one of the busiest weeks of the year. An account of a portion of Nathan's life and his family relationships. A very relaxing read. Superb story telling.
But I'm choosing to read them in the order in which they were written, because I'm as interested in the writing process and the evolution of a writer as I am in the order in which the fictional things happened.Nathan Coulter is a boy, and then a young man, for the duration of this story; somebody described this book as a meditation on grief (or something to that effect), but that's quite subtle and I'm not sure I'd agree with it.
I'm rounding up from 2.5 stars rather than rounding down simply because I didn't want to join the 32 ratings out of 2,080 to come before me that gave this less than 3 stars. This isn't a bad book, but I never could get into it, and I love a good coming-of-age story as much as anyone. Every time I've seen a quote from Wendell Berry, I've found it brilliant and/or inspiring. I do plan on checking out some of his essays and am acknowledging that this was his first novel.
This was my first experience with Wendell Berry. What a treat!! Berry doesn’t just write, he composes. I spent the first 14 years of my life in a 200 year old farm house in the middle of a large central Kentucky farm. My playgrounds were the woods and fields, the streams, pounds and creeks. My friends the farm animals and household pets. When I read Berry I am transported back to another time and place. I am reminded of the mystery and magic found in the simple things and the darkness and fear that is always lurking around the corner.
After reading Hannah Coulter, I decided to read through Berry’s works in order of publication, so I started here.
This book is very different.
Hannah presents family farm life as a warm, satisfying experience.
Nathan presents it as bleak and depressing.
The men in the family (and there are very few women; maybe that is part of their problem) are harsh and cruel, with the exception of Uncle Burley, who is just a grown-up child.
I did think Burley matured a little by the end, perhaps because he was doing most of the raising of Nathan?
I’m struggling to understand what the point if this book is.
3.5
I just love Wendell Berry. Nourishing and beautiful.
Another great book by Wendell Berry. He's one of my all time favorites.
This felt a bit like reading a lengthy story that’s kind of like “The Waltons”, but maybe an HBO version of that show.
(If you like ducks, you will have a problem with this book.) I enjoyed the book, a coming of age story that contained well-drawn characters and wonderful description of the land and the times.
Berry writes some of his characters doing odd things, but in further reading you understand their actions.
I like that kind of reading where you make little discoveries along the way.
I will be looking to read more by Berry.
A beautiful story of three generations of Coulter men and their interactions that surround the normal everyday farming and community activities of Port William.
Set much earlier in time than _Hannah_, _Nathan_ (who later in life became Hannah's second husband) tells of life in Port William KY from a youngster's point of view, as he's soon coming of age.
(Having read _Hannah_, I know what became of some of them later, so it's interesting to see them at a younger stage in life.) We see their simple farming lives, and the ways in which Nathan learns what matters in life.
Brought a lump in my throat and a catch in my heart by the end of the book.
A good book, but I think my least favorite of Berry's fiction (a true testament to him that it still gets four stars).
This story tells of much of the childhood of Nathan Coulter, whose story is told further in Hannah Coulter.
One interesting element of this book: I think it presents characters that are the least likable of any Berry that I've read so far.
That's certainly the case in this novel and there are likable characters at times (Burley, Nathan, Jig), but I did not get quite as attached to any particular character as I have in the past to characters like Hannah Coulter and Jayber Crow.
This book describes life in rural Kentucky during the depression years of the 1930's. Wendell Berry is such a skilled writer, so even this story of an often stark life was a pleasure to read, except for the occasional cruelty to animals by the men and boys--that was not easy to read. But from reading other works by Berry, I think he was depicting life as it truly was. The other strong element in the lives of these rural people was the loyalty and strong bonds between family, and sometimes friends.
Berry wields profundity amongst the simple things.
Not a lot happens and when it does Berry does not sensationalize it.
Rather he causes the reader to focus less on the event and more on an underlying meaning, like this paragraph -- "While daylight came we sat and looked at the black pile of ashes.
We hadn't accepted the fire; we'd been able to fight that as long as it burned.
But now, in the daylight, in our tiredness, as if we'd fought all night in a dream, we accepted the ashes." This is what keeps my coming back to his writing.
What a rich story full of description and beautiful writing.
I always enjoy stories set in our country's history, especially in Appalachia, the south and rural America.
My grandson has recommended this author from rural Kentucky, not far from Louisville.
I googled the area and absorbed the sense of the culture, the hard working farming area.
This book is the story of a young boy and his family as he come to terms with life and death, with family values.
I have most of Wendell Berry's book here now to read and I am looking forward to opening the next one.
Reminds me a lot of reading Ferrol Sams. His work has been compared to writings by Sherwood Anderson. Like sitting at the feet of your old Southern grandfather and listening to him yarn, except I didn't have an old Southern grandfather ...
Wonderful writing. More than another coming of age story. The series of vignettes that make up the book piece together a landscape portrait of rural life in early 20th Century Kentucky. We know the land, the rivers, the wildlife and the people. The story unfolds slowly against this sometimes harsh, sometimes pastoral background. Part Faulkner. Part Stegner. Part the land. Beautiful and moving. Thanks for the recommendation William!!
