https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41822.The_Stars_Like_Dust
I'm trying to read all of the books that eventually fell under the umbrella of the Foundation series, in internal chronological order.
Which brings me to this, one of the first novels Asimov ever published.
So far, I've yet to be truly disappointed in any of these books.
That's good, as I still have a long ways to go.It's important to note that this was originally published in 1951.
I doubt Asimov would have made some of the choices that he did if he'd written this book in 1991.
Maybe if I weren't planning on reading the entire Robots/Empire/Foundation series, I'd feel differently.
Well, you can see from his writing that his 'scientist' side was stronger than the 'writer' one: he clearly writes better robots than humans :)
Man, Asimov disappointed me a bit with this book; fortunately it was short enough to where I could make it through without throwing in the towel.The Stars, Like Dust is often regarded as the first book in the Empire series, though as far as I know it really doesn't have much to do with the other books in the series, or really much to do with the Robot, Empire, and Foundation series as a whole.
I wasn't too surprised when after reading this book I did a little research and found that this is Asimov’s least favorite book, so far this is my least favorite Asimov book.
Having been written in 1951, it reflects the societal fear at the time regarding a possibly upcoming World War III and destruction of the planet by nuclear weapons.In this book, the planet Earth is only one of many that has been settled by humankind, but – unfortunately – large portions of its surface are highly radioactive and everyone wears (or carries) radiation detectors (in the form of watches, jewelry, clothing, etc.) in case they inadvertently wander into a high-radiation zone.
Events at the end of the book wrap back to Earth – at least tangentially – an in (to me) a surprising way.It is an action-adventure novel typical of the 1950s science fiction, full of blasters, space ships, planets, and, as is also typical of the times, some great science and scientific explanations that do not bog down the narrative.
Some 50 years prior to book 2's commencement, the short and stocky human colonists of the planet Tyrann had conquered 50 other worlds in the neighborhood of the Horsehead Nebula, and if there were ever any doubt as to how the author felt about those space conquerors, let's just say that he calls their race the Tyranni.
A mysterious ancient document containing the details of a highly powerful weapon of some sort has vanished from Earth, and the discovery of that relic is of vital concern to them both, as well....Writing in his "Ultimate Guide to Science Fiction," Scottish critic David Pringle calls "The Stars, Like Dust" "a minor Asimov space yarn," and that does indeed seem to be the general consensus.
In between, everyone discusses every permutation of the plot in every facet they can manage, with a twist I didn't necessarily see coming even if the hero did (Biron starts out in a way that could have been interesting, the young man finding his footing but by the end of it turns into the typically capable SF hero of this period).
If nothing else, it makes the book worth it and shows that even when Asimov was fully vested in the cliches of the day, he was still working to find interesting angles.
Spoilers follow, but honestly...who cares with a book like this.Honestly not really worth the trouble of reviewing, but I'll say a few things anyway...Asimov himself described The Stars, Like Dust as his "least favorite novel" and even that was pretty generous on his part given its tortured publishing history.
Ahhh the things I wish I knew before I started reading.Ultimately The Stars suffers from stiff dialogue, insanely conspicuous deus ex machina intrusions, and for a modern audience, some rather antiquated (to the point of absurdity) gender roles.
If she'd been born a commoner she would be a very lovely creature.Example 4:"A supply of clothes for the lady," said Biron.Rizzett wrinkled his forehead.
So, my plan to re-read the all the Asimov books that make up our future history in the Foundation Universe continues with this, the first of the Galactic Empire novels.
Although, it has to be said, this is the only one of his books in this universe that I hadn't read before.The galactic empire novels, like the "I, Robot" stories, the first two Elijah Baley novels and the original "Foundation" trilogy were originally published in the 50's.
Very Twee and again re-enforces how this just doesn't really fit in as part of the "Foundation Universe".I can't help wondering what Asimov might have written had he written any new Galactic Empire novels when he returned intent on unifying the books.
امپراطوری های ماوراء سحابی از نیم قرن پیش به تصرف حکومت جبار سیاره تیرانی درآمده، پدر بایرون فارل ناپدید شده و او میداند تیرانی در این ماجرا دست دارد، همیشه داستان های تخیلی فضایی مرا با خود میبرد به دور دستها، کودک میشوم، آسیموف را بسیار دوست میدارم، لذتی نهفته همراه با صداقت کودکانه در ایشان نهفته است، درونم شاید همچون ایشان است، نگران آینده و شایق که کاش میدیدم
Gli ultimi capitoli sono stati tutti un unico, grande brivido che si è propagato lungo la mia schiena con un'intensità pari a quella che, nella mia fervida e indubbiamente esagerata immaginazione, potrebbe avere una scossa elettrica. Fantastico.
Odlicna prica. Posto u Srpskom izdanju knjige ovaj deo ide nakon "The Currents of Space", ali to je za radnju skroz nebitno, mogu samo reci da mi je ovaj deo rame uz rame sa predhodno procitanim. I mada mi je "The Currents of Space" nekako draza prica ova kao sto rekoh niucemu ne zaostaje. Sam kraj ce vam mozda biti malo bljutav, ali imajte u vidu da ona Amerika, iz perioda kada je pisana knjiga, i ova sada u mnogome nisu ista zemlja.
Especially his short stories, which hold up well and I'd enthusiastically recommend a collection of them: "The Dead Past," "Nightfall," "The Ugly Little Boy," "The Last Question" are amazing science fiction.
So is his Foundation series by and large and his Robot novels and stories, and I remember loving The End of Eternity and The Gods Themselves.
But this novel even Isaac Asimov himself pointed to as his least favorite, and reading it I can understand why.This is very early Asimov--only his second novel and book.
He really is one of the greats of science fiction--you just wouldn't know it from this book.
Okuduğum diğer Asimov kitaplarına kıyasla fazla sönüktü. Hatta sıralama yapacak olursam listenin sonunda olur. Karakterleri veya hikâyenin geçtiği yerleri ne heyecanlı buldum ne de ilgi çekici. Özellikle ana karakter çok sönüktü. Kitabın yarısı boyunca karakterler arasında top gibi paslaşılıyor. Bir de bu karakter ile Kral'ın kızıyla olan romantizm araya girince -evet, o klişe- gerçekten sıkıldım. Can sıkan kısım romantizm'in bu sefer ufak boyutta olmamasıydı. Neyseki diğer kitaplarda Arz söz konusu olduğundan onlarda belli bir ümidim var.
Not what I'm used to from the grandmaster of science fiction.
I was excited to try my first Asimov.
I just randomly picked one off the library shelves, but perhaps it wasn't the best choice.
The plot was mildly interesting, but the characters were impossible to understand, especially Biron the protagonist.
The resolution was also fairly unsatisfying, since it was mostly just Biron explaining (view spoiler)[how he had somehow guessed correctly at myriad things going on.
(hide spoiler)]I think I'll try again on a more famous Asimov, because I did enjoy the sci-fi aspects of the story, and the premise was okay.
Biron Farrill is a senior student at the University of Earth, the planet now highly radio-active.
I loved our heroes' logic in tracking down the mythical saviors, and their entire plan to shake off their followers.What, however, completely pissed me off where the characters.
There was the typical hot-headed youngster (Biron), the pretty spoiled princess (Artemisia), and the crazy uncle who claimed he was only acting (Gillbret).Might as well have just had some random puppets on a string, for all I'm concerned.
More like peculiarly grown-up, among a bunch of rambunctious teenagers.Score: 3/5 starsExcellent story, great world building, dismal character development.
Tras finalizar las tres novelas centrales del 'Ciclo de Trantor' y la 'Serie de los Robots', toca ponerse con la 'Trilogía del Imperio Galáctico' en esta andadura por las obras más relevantes de Isaac Asimov.
Y el comienzo, como mandan los cánones, viene con 'En la arena estelar', una obra que resumiré en un par de puntos, uno positivo y otro negativo.Empezando por la parte mala, ésta viene relacionada con el propio encaje de esta novela en el universo y el futuro ideado por Asimov.
En este aspecto se aprecia que Asimov no tenía su universo definido y da más bien la sensación de que introduce esta obra en la saga casi con calzador.
In fact, an episode for the 1960s Star Trek series used the same device to end one of its less credible episodes.
A few more edits and smoother writing might have made the goings-on in the story a little clearer, the characters more lifelike.
I know that this was one of his early books, and part of the lead-up to the Foundation series, and I know that he eventually became one of the Science Fiction giants because of his imaginative writing.
However, if you're new to Asimov, this is not the book to start you off.
I rate it at 2 out of 5 stars.
Not the greatest Asimov book but it was an easy read and got me out of my reading slump. Certainly a book of the 50s, so beware if that kind of sci-fi isn't your favourite
The Stars, Like Dust works on a level not achieved by  The Currents of Space  or  Pebble in the Sky . It does not try to be a complex spy thriller told in less than 200 pages. Nor does it get weighed down in heavy politics or distracting and ineffective subplots. The Stars, Like Dust is pure space opera loaded with shootouts, space trips, mysterious planets, and evil bad guys. This is not, in and of itself, the definition of good science fiction. Subplots, intrigue, complex schemes and thick cha
The Stars, Like Dust works on a level not achieved by 
When an author tries, and succeeds to tell a simple, but exciting, story, that’s reading gold.
This is not to say The Stars, Like Dust was a great story telling achievement.
This subplot didn’t need to be there.Of course, there is also the dated sexism in the story.
Writers who cut their teeth on pulp magazines work hard to economize words and tell stories that move to economize on space.
The beauty of the Galactic Empire series is, it need not be read in chronological order by story or by publication date.
İmparatorluk serisinin ilk, benim sıralamama göre ikinci kitabı. Oldukça ilgi çekici bir hikaye. Sonuna doğru heyecanlı ve beklenmedik olaylarla süslenmiş, akıcı bir eser. Bir eserin filmini izlemek, karakterlerini görmek, davranışlarını anlamakta ve belki de olayların gidişatını tahmin etmekte oldukça önemli ipuçları veriyor. Fakat kitabını okumanın bir güzelliği de karakterlerin davranışları hakkında hemen fikir sahibi olamamak ve bu eserdeki gibi sürprizlerle karşılaşmak. Karakterler, çiftçinin oğlu Biron Farrill, Rhodia gezegeni yöneticisinin kızı Artemisia ve kardeşi Gilbert, komiser Aratap, Jonti ve diğerleri. Zevkle okudum.
Having read Robots and Empire prior to this one, one can see how they tie the timeline, but the connection is very mild.What surprised me a bit was the tone of this novel.
I've read 6 Asimov novels prior to this one and was expecting some elements that had become familiar.
:(EDIT: I just discovered that this was Asimov's least favorite novel, so there's that to consider.
Gold absolutely insisted on including a subplot about the characters ransacking the Galaxy for an ancient document which would utterly revolutionize their political order.
I seem to have given it more stars than most readers...
Not sure.This book just has nice memories for me, as I read a very tatty old paperback held together with elastic bands and tape.
I was about twelve years old; and as such, my mind was very accepting of stories about space travel, heroes, heroines, strange planets etc.
I had been spoon fed on Star Trek and Dr Who!
It is always worth reading the early works of great writers, and forgive them for their shortcomings.This is a space romp, with a slightly dull middle, and a nice ending.
But it will always have a place on my shelf.Nice one Isaac!
I picked this up (along with the other 2 Empire trilogy books) since I've read a lot of Asimov's other work (Foundation and Robots stuff).
I wouldn't exactly say the story or characters were predictable (except for the last page aka "the document," I totally saw that coming), but they just seemed to shift without having genuine motivations.
Did not buy the contrived love story between the 2 main characters either (yawn).
All in all, if you're interested in getting into Asimov don't read this.
If you're a Foundation junkie then you've probably figured out you have no choice but read it.
چهار و نیم بازم یه اثر دیگه از ایزاک آسیموف که خب به نظرم نیازی به معرفی نداره. خوندنش برای کسایی که عاشق آسیموفن عادی به نظر میاد. اما کسایی که عاشق نظریه پردازی های علمی آسیموف هستن بیشتر از این کتاب خوششون میاد. چون علاوه بر جنبه داستانی خیلی به جنبه ی علمی فضایی این داستان پرداخته. بهش چهار و نیم دادم چون در مقابل مجموعه های بنیاد و یا رباتهای آسیموف کمی مراعات کرده باشم:دی
Disappointing!This is the worst of Asimov I've read up to now. Pretty boring. Full of stale ideas. Very slow turn of events. Lacking the same philosophical, mind engaging characteristics known of Asimov.I really hope it gets better in the next one from Galactic Empire.
این کتاب واقعاً خستهکننده بود و خوندنش برای من که کتاب قبلی رو دو سه روزه خونده بودم، بیشتر از دو هفته طول کشید!
‫این کتاب واقعاً خسته‌کننده بود و خوندنش برای من که کتاب قبلی رو دو سه روزه خونده بودم، بیش‌تر از دو هفته طول کشید!
but I think it has to be down to the fact that this really doesn't seem to fit into the over-arching universe Asimov has created.This is considered the first of the Galactic Empire series, and taking that as a single series of three books, and no others, this is a rather good book.
I honestly cannot see why on Earth the reading order says to read the Galactic Empire series out of order..
Yes it took me a long time to read this in comparison to the others, but it's still an interesting plot (barring the end few sentences), the beginning of the book dragged for me but the middle and end made up for that.

Auch wenn das Buch ziemlich viel Physik enthalten hat und ich davon absolut keine Ahnung hab, hab ich es in etwa verstanden.Absolut unfassbar, was der Autor für Recherchen betrieben haben muss, um so ein Buch auf die Beine zu stellen. Ich bin absolut fasziniert davon. Tolle Arbeit und eine harmonische „Welt“.Die Charaktere waren genial ausgearbeitet und harmonierten super zusammen. Ein wirklich tolles und faszinierendes Buch.
