https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28110852-the-girl-who-drank-the-moon
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. The people of the Protectorate leave a baby deep in the forest each year, a sacrificial offering made to a witch to deter her from terrorizing the village. When the witch, Xan, finds the babies, she feeds them starlight, but one year she accidentally pulls light from the moon and enmagicks a baby girl. Xan knows that the baby imbued with moonlight will have extraordinary abilities, so she decides to raise t
The people of the Protectorate leave a baby deep in the forest each year, a sacrificial offering made to a witch to deter her from terrorizing the village.
When the witch, Xan, finds the babies, she feeds them starlight, but one year she accidentally pulls light from the moon and enmagicks a baby girl.
The best part of the book - the succulent cherry on top of this decadent treat - is the way magic is used or emerges by accident.
- This book will likely appeal to fans of The Enchanted Forest Chronicles by Patricia C.
4 1/2 stars.This is the story of a little baby girl sent to die but who is adopted by a good witch instead.
But that day is coming and coming, closer and closer, and the Witch starts to regret her decision.There obviously is more happening in the story than only that.
We need voices in literature that have their own different style, and Kelly Barnhill is a refreshing one.There is a lovely fairytale-esque atmosphere in the story that made me want to read this aloud to children in my community.
Yeah, that’s Fyrian alright.In a perfect world, every kid would have read this enchanting story.Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin’
Stunning language and memorable characters. Worthy of a spot alongside Susan Cooper, Ursula LeGuin, and Lloyd Alexander. The sort of book that makes you believe in magic (and love).
And then the blurb: witches, tiny dragons, swamp monsters, lunar magic...this book had all the ingredients for me to drop everything and just read!
After that:I'll just divide this review into pros and cons to make it easier for me to keep it organised and easier for you to read it!The Pros:- Magic being drawn directly from mother nature.- There are a lot of strong female characters present.- You can discover several elements from classic fairy tales such as Hansel and Gretel, and Little Thumbling.- Glerk, the friendly gross-looking Swamp Monster.
One is the life in the Protectorate where villagers have an appalling tradition of offering a young baby to the witch in the woods.
My favorite creature is Glerk, the poetic monster of the Bog who may have five or six legs and a prehensile tail and is long time loyal friend to Xan and protector of Fyrian and young Luna.
It's a story about secrets that can do harm, about misguided protection, about young people needing to grow up to be their true self, about the beauty and pain of motherly love, about the cost of sorrow and healing power of hope.
For such a long book there was very little MG age interesting content.Many of the scenes were too long and a lot of them were basically the same scene in a different location.
If these redundant scenes had been taken out, and most of the adult storyline extracted, the book would have been more MG length and a lot more interesting for MG age readers.Luna, the bog monster, and the tiny dragon were the highlights of the story and more focus should have been on them.
This is a new favorite book of mine.
I love this book.
I love the tone of the book and the feeling of magic conveyed to the reader.
I love the resolution of the book and how things conclude.
I don't want to give anything away, simply read the story as it's worth your time.
I love the prose of this work.
Such a work of beauty.
This would be one of my favorite books of 2017 for me.
It more than deserves the Newberry award.This book deals with belonging, of life and death, growing up and loss.
The story centers around a long held tradition in the Protectorate, that every year the youngest child must be sacrificed to appease the witch in the forest.
But right away the reader finds out the the witch, named Xan, is actually kind and makes the yearly trek to the Protectorate to save the babies from dying alone.
One day, Xan picks up a baby girl and instead of feeding her starlight she feeds her moonlight, which imbues the child with incredible powers.
What follows is an intricate cast of characters that are all affected by Luna, the girl who drank the moon.
Just finished, and it was so amazing. Gorgeous, lyrical writing, a warm and clever story, a fairy tale quality. Reminded me of STARDUST by Neil Gaiman, more than anything else. Really recommended.

___________________________________Full review, complete with quotes is up on my book blogFrom the moment I started reading and to the last page this was a solid 4 star read for me.
The world pulls you in, making you feel as you are there - in the book.
I will say though that this book is probably not for everybody.
It's quite different from other middle grade fantasy books - both in style of writing and structure.Some things would take a really long time to happen, and some other ones happen too quickly.
To be completely honest I was quite confused for the first 100 pages or so.
DNFSometimes you click with a book, sometimes you don't. I was curious about this book because of the Newbery Award but I've been pushing myself for days to keep reading this and I am just not interested anymore.:(Follow me on ♥ Facebook ♥ Blog ♥ Instagram ♥ Twitter ♥
Captivating and wonderful.
It's one of those middle grade books that works on two levels, like a Pixar movie.
Middle graders will love the story just for the story (even if some of the deeper themes woven in go over their head; not discounting children readers, though, we don't give them enough credit), but adults will also find a lot of deeper meaning to the book.
It's ultimately about hope and forgiveness and love.
Hope in the midst of suffering, forgiveness in the midst of failure, and loving so big and so much that no one is left out.
Even if you never read middle grade.
Stunningly beautiful writing mixed with a perfectly plotted story filled with adventure, humor, and love. Each of Kelly's middle grade books gets exponentially better (which is astonishing, because they are all amazing), and this one will be a new classic for certain sure.
That's almost a sure way to be disappointed, I know, but in this case it worked out!So, what do you get when you take:-a kind and clever witch-a poetry reciting swamp monster-an adorably naive Perfectly Tiny Dragon who believes he's actually a Simply Enormous Dragon-a girl whose magic cannot be containedMix in a volcano, a town swamped with sorrow, add heaping spoonfuls of starlight, moonlight, lyrical writing that ignites the senses, a dreamy fairy tale quality, and, finally, a dash of humor?One of the most enchanting and endearing books I've ever read.The first half of this book was an easy five stars.
But then again, the last time I read a middle grade novel was probably when I was actually the target audience for such novels, so what do I know.
I can see why everyone's raving about this book.
It's a complex, rich, magical story with unforgettable characters.
It has that feel of a classic fantasy story about witches and forests and magic, but it's also a fresh approach that interweaves science and critical thinking and legend and being kept down by The Man. It's a review cliche to say that it's a story about the power of stories, but IT IS.
It's about who's telling the stories and the book gives this macro view while the characters can only see the trees.Also there is a tiny, hilarious dragon.
Man, it's good.
This is is such an amazing book with so much to love about it. The story is multilayered and beautiful, sad and uplifting. The characters are all so, so wonderful and unique. I loved each and every one of them. The writing is a joy.The audiobook narrator did such an excellent job with this book, giving each character a wonderfully unique slant. I listened to this with my kids, but I would have enjoyed it just as much listening to it on my own. Highly recommended.
It has some intriguing characters- a swamp monster who's been around since the beginning of the world, a sorrow eater, a childlike dragon, a magical girl...it has a lot of promise.What Didn't Work for Me:This was slow.
"She is here", "Sorrow is dangerous"...I feel like some ideas and themes were beaten to death.
This is so full of symbolic imagery and poetic figurative language that the plot gets a big lost in it.
And when most of these characters come together and start speaking to each other, the pronouns could have been a bit better defined, IMO.
Update: changing my rating from 5 stars to 4.5 stars
By the final chapters, the repeated material felt so painful to read, I was amazed I managed to finish this novel."The Girl Who Drank the Moon" features a lot of high-level vocabulary, but the presence of so many linking verbs ("was, is, had been, were") in the narration really dulled the story, and when the author did swap out linking verbs for more interesting ones, the verbs ended up being distracting (count how many times the word "skittered" or "skittering" is used, for an example of this book's repetitive word choice).The novel is a whopping 388 pages long, and the story didn't justify that length.
I wanted to love this book.
The cover was gorgeous.The writing was gorgeous.The ending came together perfectly.I didn't love this book.
I finished it, but kinda wish I hadn't wasted my time.I don't see this as middle grade fiction.
To me, it seems more like an adult book with a middle grade character.
It's what adults wished middle graders wanted to read.
It has so many elements that I thought I would love: A bog monster, a tiny dragon, and magic from the moon.
All while living in a forest.I wish it had worked for me.A tiny note for Audible listeners.
Oh, I adore this book.
Kelly is a masterful storyteller, and I feel this one was brewing in her for a while.
Lovers of middle grade—no matter their age—will come away with their own kind of sticky-sweet starlight: more joy, inspiration to forgive and cling to hope, and love multiplied.
Sorrow erupts, love blooms, stories bend, paper birds cut, magic grows, and all the things we forgot or think we know can come raining down or simply click into place.
If you ever feel the weight of sorrow will swallow you up, this book will gently remind you that hope is here.
4 / 5 stars “Just because you don't see something doesn't mean it isn't there. Some of the most wonderful things in the world are invisible. Trusting in invisible things makes them more powerful and wondrous.”  This was one of the most precious books I've read in a long time, it was poetic and incredibly beautiful. The perfect middle-grade story for younger readers, but also held so much metaphor and gorgeous life lessons that it was also perfect for anybody in the mood for a character-driven bo
Some of the most wonderful things in the world are invisible.
Trusting in invisible things makes them more powerful and wondrous.” 
The perfect middle-grade story for younger readers, but also held so much metaphor and gorgeous life lessons that it was also perfect for anybody in the mood for a character-driven book, one that will envoke all the feelings.
[s]Truly those characters had my heart and soul from the very first chapter.
“Curiosity is the curse of the Clever.
Or perhaps cleverness is the curse of the Curious.
This was truly such a heartwarming story and so easy to become immersed in.
A charming and magical story about witches, love, an enormous tiny dragon, and the (dangerous) power of belief.
The story is aimed at middle-grade, but anyone wanting to read an old-fashioned fairytale will enjoy this.Set in a fog-riddled village and a slimy bog, the witch Xan tries to stop Luna’s magical powers from growing too strong.
I therefore give The Girl Who Drank the Moon 3 stars: I loved the natural magic and Luna’s sweet found-family, but the pacing in the first 2/3 part of the book was too slow and the ending was spectacular, but predictable.
The Girl Who Drank the Moon has some powerful political themes surrounding the perils of nationalism and authoritarianism, as well as what happens when people with power - especially men - abuse their power over others.
It is a quick read that may make your heart smile.My few constructive criticisms: I feel that the book veered off course during certain sections and lacked a cohesive central narrative?
I think The Girl Who Drank the Moon could have been at least 100 pages shorter while retaining its central premise and emotional impact.
I'm in the middle of another more serious book and after a great review from my Goodreads friend, Renata, I decided to pause to read something a little lighter and fun.
The themes are all there, magic, love, sorrow, conservative ornery leaders who don't realize they're under the power of very old magic.The magic comes from the moon and the stars and it was so beautifully described, it made me want to go spend more time in the moon to see if I could absorb some of that magic.
“Just because you don't see something doesn't mean it isn't there. Some of the most wonderful things in the world are invisible. Trusting in invisible things makes them more powerful and wondrous.”  People of Protectorate are led to believe by thier rulers that their is an evil With in the dangerous forest. Each year, they sacrifice a new born child to the witch in hope that she does not harm their towns. The rulers of Protectorate thinks that their is no Witch and child will die and through th
The rulers of Protectorate thinks that their is no Witch and child will die and through the sorrow of the parents of children that are abandoned, the rulers control the Protectorate and its people.
In truth, the Witch in the forest is Good and she takes the abandoned Children and deliver them to their new families in Free Cities.
She does not try to find out why the people of Protectorate abandon their children, for a thick cloud of sorrow hung over that acursed town.
It was hope that lifted the cloud of sorrow from Protectorate, it was hope that led Antain into the forest, it was hope that brought happiness to Protectorate.
When you're already getting the feels just from reading the title of the book:
What a lovely, lovely book 💜💜4.2 Stars
