https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39242.The_Milagro_Beanfield_War
If you don't like it, I'm liable to punch you in the genitals.Ostensibly, the book is about a water-rights squabble in a small town in New Mexico.
But the book is so much more: the differences between the Mexican and American cultures, believing in miracles, political dissidence, and all of the ridiculously awesome characters that the author breathes life into.
Things build to a climax involving the whole host of characters, and for a change in a town called Miracle, the good guys win one.
Que Viva Snuffy Ledoux! I read this book 35 years ago for the first time when I was fifteen years old. It remains one of my all time favorites. After re-reading - because one of my friends told me I reminded him of Amarante Cordova - and because I always considered myself to be more of a Jose Mondragon - the themes remain contemporary. They remind me why I consider this timeless piece of literature to be such a great demonstration of artistry and craftsmanship.Milagro Beanfield War is an enchan
His descriptions of the colorful characters and the beautiful landscapes reveal a man who is faithful to describing northern New Mexico Latino culture with clarity and sensitivity to all their quirky nuances.Nichols reminds me why I love the northern part of the state so much.
And that white man over there told us these things about the dam and the conservancy and showed us the maps, I consider him of my people too, even though he is a lawyer, even though he speaks funny Anglo Spanish you can hardly understand.
I was really enjoying this book for the first couple hundred pages, especially since I grew up watching the film and so I already had a huge affection for the story and the main characters.
The story doesn't move forward, the conversations about what to do or not to do about Joe's beanfield become repetitive, and rather than using this time to tell us more about the people we've already met, new people are introduced and given their five-page bios.
Or, conversely, I can appreciate a book short on literary craft but well paced and devoted to telling a good yarn.
"You can't buy bullets with food stamps," says Nick Rael, the store owner of the one store in Milagro, New Mexico, when Amarante Cordova peals off four one-dollar stamps and carefully lays them on the counter.
This absurd scene in The Milagro Beanfield War, the first novel in John Nichols' epic New Mexico Triology, serves well enough to illustrate the power of Nichols' voice and the authority of his narrative, but Amarante takes his bullets and shuffles off to stand guard over Joe Mondragon's controversial beanfield with a prehistoric revolver and a bottle of cheap brandy, envisioning an angel who in Nichol's words "Is no shining angel with a golden halo straight from Tiffany's...
I'm always sad when I decide to give up on a book.
But sometimes I have to grit my teeth and put the book down.
This was one of those cases.I wanted to love The Milagro Beanfield War because of its quirkiness, but the sheer number of characters and amount of back story was overwhelming.
I appreciate Nichols taking the time to create an entire town full of people, past and present, but he didn't need to include every single one of them in his final draft.
By the time I was closing in on page 100, it was just exhausting.Rest in peace, people of Milagro.
My friend Cathy and I went to Santa Fe and found that Robert Redford was filming this movie.
So we decided to go watch them film.
We got to the gate and I lied by saying that we were with the press, but then Cathy had to go and tell the truth.
That night we were at a bar in Santa Fe and ran into the crew, and one of their members said that we could come to watch them film the next day.
The book and the movie were good, but not great, and this isn't about sour grapes.

Great read and funny as heck. Points out that water is the life blood of the west. I think I met Joe Mondragon or his twin. I think I want to visit New Mexico.
The whole reason I wanted to read the book -- and why I put it off for so long -- is that I love the movie.
I had the usual presumption that the book must be better than the movie but also feared it wouldn't be.
It distills what's good about the book into a more potent story.
Here goes.The story itself is plenty solid for a novel of half the length but either Nichols doesn't trust it or is hellbent on writing a big book.
The Milagro Beanfield War was one of those books that Goodreads thought I would like and I thought I should like.
Then I tried to reseed my mind with the Milagro Beanfield War, but with no luck.
I read yet another book and finally realized it was time to give up on this book.The Milagro Beanfield War presents an impowering political commentary on life in northern New Mexico, but fails to tell a story with enough plot and movement to keep the reader engaged.
This might be one of those times when the movie is better than the book.
How could illegally irrigating a small field of beans cause such chaos and mayhem?
This is an uproariously funny book.
I enjoyed the characters mini-stories throughout the book.
I was charmed by the nature descriptions.
Although this was set in New Mexico, it reminded me so much of the Colorado Rockeies where our family vacationed most of my life.I just borrowed the VHS tape of this movie from the library.
It was directed by Robert Redford.
Very Good.
A few minor changes from the book, but true to the spirit.
Some of the incidents are even more hilarious when you see them.
This has a particular appeal to me, because I am a native to New Mexico and a Chicano...but I would not necessarily say that it excludes others from understanding its very unique style.
Behind the ridiculous stories of the some what demented town-folk of Milagro, is a story about the tragedy and greatness of a rural town in Northern New Mexico, and its estranged villagers (who are more like a family than peers), finding common cause in ousting corporate invaders.
Oh...And DO NOT read this book just if your name happens to be Milagros and you happen to enjoy a generous helping of beans...it might be offensive, sexual, crude and downright disgusting.
Superb reading and funny as hell.
Character development that is absolutely unique.
Funny, moving, sensitive and educational.
A real story of the plight of poor Northern New Mexican natives as the face the problems and costs of new development.
This sets of a war between the locals and the developers who are supported by the Governor's office and their lawless enforcer.
Barney the local sherif is a hoot as is the major and the college student who lives in a shack by Amarante.Made into a movie directed by Robert Redford and starring Christopher Walken and Ruben Blades.
Milagro is a dying town In northern New Mexico. Water conservancy has routed their already minimal water supply to benefit big agriculture to the South and nearby resorts. On a whim that even he doesn't understand, feisty Joe Mondragon diverts the water to irrigate his small beanfield. In essence that was a declaration of war against the government and big money investors. Wonderfully colorful characters. Great sense of place. What a fun read.
Funny as hell. Gritty, witty, dirty, and fun.
By far it was one of the funniest books I've read (up there with Hitchhikers Guide), and it accomplished this while presenting a representative portrait of northern NM.
Published in 1974, this is one of my ALL TIME favorites. The writing is smart and it's definitely the funniest book I've ever read. Highly recommend it!!!!!
This is the second time I've read this book and it sure seemed shorter and funnier the first time around.
This time I was thinking about the author wondering if he was a combination of the lawyer Bloom and the volunteer Herbie G.
That bean field becomes the symbol of the fight between those who have been ripped off and those who have done the ripping off.This edition of the book also contains an afterward by the author which was very interesting and worth reading.With this lukewarm review you might wonder why I read it again.
I would love to read the author's other books.
But I didn't keep my copy.A couple of years ago, I brought home a newer edition of the book, thinking that I should read it because it is a classic of the times and I didn't remember much about the story except that it was activism of some kind.While not a page-turner, it did hold my interest.
The cursing and foul language (often creative) is a turn-off, but the acknowledgment of nature as being good for the soul kept me reading.
On page 455, near the very end of the book, he writes:To be truthful, though, I do have a few minor regrets.
The Milagro Beanfield War is a splendid book, well worth reading by anyone -- and me, no less, who will be in New Mexico within a few short weeks.
What looked like a simple law enforcement matter got more dicey by the day as the Spanish Milagrans decided they have had quite enough and flummox Mr Devine and his land schemes by standing their ground.At one and the same time, I can understand why Robert Redford made a film out of this book -- and I understand why Redford's film failed.
A bit hyperbolic, but nonetheless decent prose and a fun story centered about age old land and class struggles in New Mexico.
You can definitely tell it was written by a transplant much like Herbie Goldfarb in the novel.
The characters were for the most part carboard and none of them really change throughout the novels meandering 500 pages.
The book was clearly written by a white man who had only been in New Mexico for a short time.
The characters don't change, but I guess nothing really changes in Northern New Mexico either.
The novel definitely could be trimmed down to around 300 pages.
This book is very funny. The small town full of characters who all know each other and all their relatives is a story told about how the poor fight against the rich developers -- and win!! Much to everyone's amazement. Must be a miracle.
It almost does not need to be said that the poor farmers of Milagro whose land is the fuel for this endeavor will never see any of profit.This leads to the events of the novel: Joe Mondragon, fed up with the directionless path his life has taken, heads out to his late parents dusty property and diverts a stream to irrigate a paltry beanfield.
Government agents, water rights goons, local businessman, and a slew of other interests converge on Milagro, plotting how best to dispose of Joe and his beanfield without blowing the whole delicate political situation like a powder keg.
I know he was liberal in his politics, and of course Redford (no libertarian he) liked the book enough to make a movie out of it, so you clearly do not need to be a libertarian to appreciate its message.I think you should read this book.
If you are interested in the relationship of arcane legal entities, interstate compacts, back room logrolling political agreements, and the enforcement mechanisms of each of these upon the lives of normal people trying to live their lives in peace, you must read this book.
I wanted realism, and Nichols delivers (spiced up with some magical and comic touches), but in the process, he takes a shot at just about everybody: political liberals, police and government officials, chicanos, tourists, religion, gun owners and gun shunners, journalists, environmentalists, developers....
Nichols isn't good enough to earn that much time commitment from me, but I do recommend this novel to those who aren't too easily offended and who enjoy comic and/or political fiction.
The Milagro Beanfield War has been on my bucket list since I saw the movie 30 years ago.
Last year I spied a tattered yellow copy in the free box of Blue Cypress Book Store in New Orleans.
Comments from the FBI, the rangers, and oddly, the birders who wanted the preserve back sounded much like dialogue from  The Milagro Beanfield War. You have to scratch your head and wonder what has changed since John Nichols wrote his first novel in he New Mexico trilogy.
TheMilagro Beanfield War stands the test of time.
Nichol's prose is dense and rich, so descriptive that I find myself re-reading paragraphs just for the joy of the images evoked by the words.This novel contains a large number of finely drawn characters with fascinating back stories, which Nichols manages to weave into the main narrative without losing the thread.
Indeed, these back stories turn out to be integral to the main plot.
The characters are caught up in events they don't quite understand but nevertheless, without really being sure how they did it, manage to influence.
I have not read the other two books (Magic Journey and Nirvana Blues), and I am almost scared to because I have heard they are not as good.
I tried to find a good used hard copy for Kirk a few years ago for his birthday.
So I went to the one good used bookstore in downtown Everett.
And he is like "Huh?" He had never heard of the book or John Nichols.
Needless to say, I never went back and the bookstore went out of business last year.
Nichols introduces more characters in the beginning of the book than the reader thinks he can handle and then proceeds to introduce the reader to all these characters in such a way that the reader feels like a resident in this small New Mexican town.
This book has a wonderful struggle of the people against "the system" and "big money".
This book took about 10 pages for me to be very interested, by page 25 I was immersed.
By the last page, I didn't want it to end - to me a very good sign of a great book.
I picked this one up because it was billed as part 1 on the "New Mexico Trilogy". Since, that is my home state and we don't get a lot of publicity, I was intrigued. The story was boring beyond belief and choked with political correctness. The book seems to have been written by one of those self-loathing white people. The brown people are cool and authentic and the gringos are a bunch of dolts. It was offensive to me. Enough so, that I didn't read the other books in the series. Something I rarely do.
