https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43841.When_Christ_and_His_Saints_Slept
She then escaped but soon found herself forced to leave her army behind which endangered her illegitimate brother, Robert, and resulted in his capture.Thus, Robert was exchanged for Stephen and the war continued after a truce.
His barons blamed him for this much later and, even when he tried to capture her, she always managed to slip away).Victories came and went for both sides, and vassals continued to switch sides.
In the end, and, in less than two years, Henry landed in England, where he was supported by his own troops as well as British lords.
Bad omens and war weary vassals eventually convinced him to pass his title to Henry upon his death.
Robert of Gloucester, a competent, well respected illegitimate son of Henry I displaying all the characteristics of a man that would have made a good king is kept from the throne by law.
If Robert had been allowed to be crowned king many thousands of English lives would have been spared in the more than a decade of civil war that followed the coronation of Stephen, for Maude did not go quietly in the night.
By the time Henry, oldest son of Maude and Geoffrey, became old enough to become involved in the conflict the war was nearly over.
What makes Sharon Penman's historical novels set in medieval Britain so amazing is how they combine 
It was with great anticipation that I returned to Sharon Penman’s When Christ and His Saints Slept, the first book by Sharon Penman that I ever read at the tender age of 10, and which for good reasons immediately became one of my favourite books of all time and in all the years since has never been displaced from its solid and thoroughly deserved status as the cream of the crop not just of historical fiction but across genres.
I liked this book, and am a fan of Penman's...but there were a few issues that I had with this one:1.) "Head-hopping": Sometimes it's really hard to tell who she's talking about, and you have to go back and re-read to figure it out.2.) Many scenes seem to have this basic structure: 1.
Some major characters, most likely nobles, are talking about something eminently important.
2. Suddenly...A rider/knight will rush in to tell them that someone has died/been born, or a castle/city is under siege/taken, etc.It just seemed like there were too many scenes where people just ahppened to be sitting around, discussing something important, at just the moment that such a herald of joy/doom would barge in...
"A man can be our enemy, Eustace, and still be a decent sort.I've read all of Philippa Gregory's king and queen books, and this is only my second title by Sharon Kay Penman.
I enjoy them both but for different reasons - PG shows you all the intrigues in the courts, but you're never really aware of what is happening to the man on the street.
The second reason I really enjoyed this book is that we get so many different POV's, which enables us to have sympathy with both sides.
Sharon Kay Penman traverses this period in her novel, “When Christ and his Saints Slept”.A warning must initially be signaled that Penman’s novel is a heavy one.
Slightly after the 200 page mark, Penman smooths out “When Christ and his Saints Slept” and reading becomes easier and more cohesive as the story focuses on less character point of views.
Penman eventually focuses “When Christ and his Saints Slept” on Henry’s quest for the English crown and his relationship with Eleanor.
“When Christ and his Saints Slept” is suggested for HF fans of both England and France.
A fascinating, complicated tale with a huge cast of characters, many with similar names.
The characters were well written, and I appreciated that neither Stephen (who did steal the crown) nor Maude were written as black and white/evil vs.
saint -- all had flaws in their characters.
The first 2/3 of the book are mostly about the civil conflict between the two parties and can drag on a bit, but the last part when Henry started coming into power and married Eleanor of Aquitaine the sparks were fairly flying off the pages.
I am now starting on Time and Chance (Ballantine Reader's Circle) and eagerly awaiting more on this dynamic pair.
This is not a great example of historical fiction. The story is thin and feels like it is just there to connect the historical elements that the author had researched and wanted to tell us about. It's hard to develop much interest in any of the characters. Really, this isn't so much a novel as a seemingly endless series of vignettes. I'm struggling to get through it, but sticking it out for some reason. I definitely wouldn't recommend.
This was a great book written about the eleven hundreds in England and Normandy. It speaks of the fierce fighting for the crown and many betrails of the heart. I recommend it highly.Enjoy and Be Blessed.
It is a clear-cut narration of historical events leading to the Anarchy and what it was like for people from all standing to live through and suffer the tribulations of this particular period, starting from the day Stephen and Empress Maude fought over England’s crown.
It still boggles the mind to think that England went through twenty years of civil war because men just couldn't stand to see a powerful woman on the throne.
He truly believes that he was meant to be king of England.
Practically every woman character--from the driven Maude, the Stephen's wife Matilda, to the alluring Eleanor of Aquitaine--prove them all very wrong.The saddest part of this book, and of the real life events it chronicles, is the suffering of the poor who find themselves at the mercy of battle-hardened soldiers, especially when on the losing end of a battle.
Sharon Penman has for a long while now, taken first place on my list of favorite authors, in any genre! No matter which genre I delve into, no author (so far) has been able to draw me in as well as Penman does. Medieval England is filled with all the elements one needs for an entertaining read but no one highlights these elements quite like Penman! What can I say? I loved this book! I couldn't put it down!
A huge cast of characters populates this book and their conflicts with each other and themselves are what propels this story.
All of this information is woven into the story in a way that you don't feel like you're reading a list of events but that you're picking up these facts as you go along and sink deeper into the world of the book, which is definitely substantial.
Seriously, there were times when people in this book would say shit like "Yeah, Stephen sucks but do you really want a woman on the throne?" It's just ridiculous.
I read Sharon Kay Penman's When Christ and his Saints Slept many years ago (I purchased a hardback copy with much anticipation when it was first released, mostly because of my adoration of Ellis Peters' brilliant Brother Cadfael series which takes place in the same historical period) and must admit that I have neither the energy nor even the inclination to consider a detailed and intense rereading (at least at present) in order to pen a longer and more involved review, as my reading experience, while indeed very much informative, was also not really all that much of a pleasure.
I have read it before and knew exactly what would happen, but that didn't stop tears from forming in my eyes at times as Penman skillfully made history come alive.Even the title is more eye-catching and thought provoking than most.
Henry I makes his daughter Maude (Matilda) his heir in one of the worst considered last testaments of all time and throws England into a 20 year civil war so bloody and tormented that it was believed that Christ and His saints slept.
His and Eleanor's story is just beginning when this novel ends, but is continued in the next volume, Time and Chance.
Also, the use of the term 'lad/lass' every time someone speaks to someone else gets REALLY irritating.
Ms Penman only falls down on the sort of detail that can slide past the eye - buying a tablecloth at the market to go for a picnic, for instance.
I am no expert in the history of tablecloths and their use.
While they were in use in that time, the sort of table that would have worn one would have demanded a very large one.
Henry is the personality of this era and this look at his formative years is most interesting.
It amazes me that one could carry on a war for 20 years and just dismiss the misery one is causing people.
Henry II had one of the greatest reigns in English history, but part of why it was so great, is because of the horrible misery caused by Stephen and Maude.I am amazed how much I loved Stephen and hated Maude in the beginning, and found myself completely reversed by the end.If you are a Pillars of the Earth fan, this is another view of the exact same time in history.Also, the last third of the book the Henry & Eleanor story really takes off, and although we've all seen A Lion in Winter and know how their story ends, it's great to see how it begins.
Sharon Kay Penman is the all time master of historical fiction. (Her Welsh Princes trilogy even made my Dad cry!)This is the first in her Plantagenets series. It starts with the death of the only *legitimate* son of King Henry I and what that leads to. Will his daughter take the crown back from her cousin Stephen? What happens when her son Henry meets the Queen of France, Eleanor of Aquitaine? This is some of the most dramatic and romantic of historical times. Names from history litter this book including a young clerk named Thomas Becket. (Hmmmm....)
The first chapters is about, Henry I, and the death of his only male heir by drowning when the ship he was on crossing the English Channel,before his death , he named his daughter Maude (Matilda) as heir to the throne, and made all the Barons and titled men, swear an oath of fealty.
Stephen would remain King as long as he lived, and adopted Henry and named him, heir to the throne.
Maude Sent Ranulf ( a fictional Character) her half brother to try an convince him to return back to Normandy at that she would give money for him to pay his soldiers.
I didn't like this book, skipping over and skimming through the last half as fast as I could.Set in 1135 England, it tells the story of Stephen and Maude's fight over the thone.
I picked out this as my first Penman novel because it was set in the era of Brother Cadfael.
The amount of time spent on Maude's unhappy marriage and Stephens wife was tedious and jumping from one drama to the next drama was too much action and not enough story or character building.
The history was fascinating but the writing style and chopped up story made it less than enjoyable to read.
Stephen wants to crown his son Eustace king in his lifetime, while Maude and Geoffrey are determined that their son Henry, already Duke of Normandy, will win the crown of England.
When she does, sparks immediately fly between her and Henry, despite the fact that she is still - unhappily - married to the King of France.For me personally, this was an excellent introduction to a period of English history I didn't know much about and a chance to meet two fascinating twelfth-century women, the Empress Maude and Eleanor of Aquitaine.
When we finally meet Eleanor of Aquitaine, who is discussed as a topic of gossip throughout the book, there are definite correlations between with Maude.
One of these days I'll definitely read the next 2 books that follow Henry and Eleanor, altho it will pain me because I know how this passionate and seemingly perfectly well-matched marriage disintegrates.
I wonder if I would have loved this if I hadn't read Dorothy Dunnett, who not only wrote superbly researched historical fiction, but raised it to the highest notch of brilliance with added intrigue, mystery, and thrill.
Anyway, I can't help but compare good historical fiction with Dunnett, and everything else feels flatter.
Penman had quite the feat, considering that the chroniclers of the time, misogynist men of the Church, were hostile to Maude and her pursuit of the English throne that was rightly hers.
But Penman not only brought these magnificent historical characters to life - the long-suffering English people, caught in the crossfire between these 2 warring factions, were a character in themselves.
Based on the conflict between King Stephen and Empress Maude, this is an extensive and very well written novel for historical fiction enthusiasts.
Written in third person, it follows numerous characters and sub-plots.
I think the most interesting thing about the novel is that neither Maude nor Stephen are portrayed as the protagonist or antagonist.
I can see why it has become something of a classic in it's genre, must-read for fans of medieval or royal historical fiction but as expected, at 700+ pages, it's not one to take on lightly!
I like this author increasingly more with every book I read. The book tells more the story of Stephen of England and Empress Matilda of England. The life of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine are shown less but this is because they are still very young.Anyway is amazing the young age at which they began to appear on the political scene. I can not wait to read the second book.
The novel follows the story of Henry I's daughter, Maude (remembered historically as Matilda, but to avoid confusion Penman -- thankfully -- uses the interchangeable name of Maude) and her quest for the throne of England, which was skillfully wrenched away by her likable, politically inept cousin, Stephen of Blois.The politics and players of the time were numerous and convoluted, but Penman doesn't simplify to appease readers.
She explains the use of any fictional characters and carefully clarifies time and place, which only adds legitimacy to her already meticulous presentation.If you haven't yet picked up a Penman novel, When Christ and His Saints Slept is the perfect introduction to a writer renowned for her command of historical fiction.
Actual rating is 4.5 starsThis is the second Sharon Kay Penman book that I have read, the first being the brilliant The Sunne in Splendour - A Novel of Richard III which is one of my favourite books of all time.
The main reason is that I didn't enjoy it quite as much as 'The Sunne in Splendour' and also because I think it could have been a bit shorter as there were times when I thought that odd little bits could have been cut out.
Henry and Eleanor don't show up much until the last 20% of the novel but that did not deter from my reading experience.The story is told from the perspective of historical persons and also fictional characters.
Even though for the most part the destitute peasants and the people who populated the towns, villages and farms are not given their own stories, I came away from this novel with an understanding of why this time period is considered to be "When Christ and His Saints Slept".
He is a very controversial character in "When Christ & His Saints Slept" and I'm looking forward to reading how Ms Chadwick portrays him.
Finished: I am VERY glad I read the book.
After reading the book you truly know the character traits of the main historical figures.
In addition I am getting bogged down by the continual bickering between Maude and Geoffrey, and actually I am also a little tired of hearing how wonderful Stephen's and Matilda's marriage is.
Many of the main historical characters are delineated in family charts at the front of the book.
What I do like is that Penman has for the most part drawn the characters so they come alive.
Stephen's good and bad sides are well depicted, but other characters are less nuanced.
