https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40718205-the-dinner
It felt contrived and stilted.
He was as big a bore as his brother.I can't begin to describe how irritated and ripped off I felt by this book.To compare it to The Slap (by Australian author Christos Tsiolkas) is such a joke.
The characters in that book were so well written and, while not always likeable (in fact some were really icky), they were believable.
And it explored the underlying issues and fallout from the "event" that the book gets its name from.I felt like the The Dinner was a cheap stunt designed to make the reader feel like they had explored something deep, dark and dangerous.
as the story goes on, the tension escalates, and with every course, as the waiter's finger comes closer and closer to the food as he relentlessly describes every element on the plate, you can feel the simmer of the unspoken building to a boil.there is a lot of violence in this book.
while still doing the coy thing, the discreet turn away from the camera when it comes time to make with some of the details.ultimately, the book is about protecting family vs doing what is right, but "right" in this case is subjective, and two of our subjects just don't have the same compass as us; they have a nick-and-amy compass.
I found myself wanting to put it down numerous times, and I felt physically ill when I realized where the ending was going....and yet I didn't hate the book itself.
2) I have just started to voice my opinions on here, and my thoughts on this book would make me sound like a " raving, people hating, I weep for the future" kind of gal...and finally 3) If I get into my feelings of THE DINNER I will probably give something away (since I don't know how to use the spoiler warning yet).
“That’s the oppressive thing about happiness, the way everything is out on the table like an open book.”  When you look at the "rating details" for every widely-read book on Goodreads, you will almost always see most ratings being 5 or 4 stars. Even when it comes to divisive books like Fifty Shades of Grey, 60% of the ratings are for 4 or 5 stars. Now look at the ratings for The Dinner. There are an overwhelming number of 3 star ratings (more than any other). And I get why. This is the kind of
Even when it comes to divisive books like Fifty Shades of Grey, 60% of the ratings are for 4 or 5 stars.
Through little flashbacks and side stories, details and vagueness, it becomes clear that there's a dark side to this get together and our narrator might not be so reliable.It's a book about many things: mental illness, dehumanization, middle class people and the coveted notion of a "happy family".
The narrator's disdain for his pretentious brother and the general faff of "posh" restaurants is amusing.Though I think, most of all, this novel has a severe lack of believability and I found it hard to take seriously.
Not in the sense that the author is fascist or anything of the sort, but rather like pointing to a certain book and recognizing that it's a feminist novel, or a queer novel, or a Southern novel, or what have you.
The narrator Paul Lohman, and his wife Claire, unlikeable and repulsive that they end up being in the novel, make decisions that at first might seem unbelievable, until their history is further revealed.
The fascist beliefs only become clear towards the end of the book.
And, like Tolstoy warns, they are "unhappy" in a very unique way.Though, the book leaves you with an icky feeling, it is somehow very enjoyable.
I beg to differ and I think that this book should more appropriately be tagged ‘the European Defending Jacob'...but hey who am I to question The Wall Street Journal!
The setting, i.e. the restaurant, works exceptionally well...a setting which we think and imagine will provide intimacy and an appropriate platform for discussion.
The setting is an extremely important aspect in this book, because as each course arrives for our diners, our own appetite, hunger and curiosity increase for the unfolding story.
There are no likeable characters in the book and our narrator is totally unreliable, two of my favourite features of a good read.
This may have been one of the worst books I have ever read.
I will confess that generally I want to have at least one character that I like.
This book however, I kept reading because every review that I read and every recommendation I got from friends said how fabulous this book was.
I hated that the one person who wanted to come clean and do the right thing was presented as an egocentric buffoon.
Maybe it isn't that I need characters that I like.
Maybe it's that I want to know that there is a moral compass out there.
I absolutely cannot recommend it.
Update 3 July 2015 If you've read the book and thought nothing like that could ever really happen, read the news.
Kind of.I have tried to be oblique but anything I say will ruin the book if you are going to read it, so (view spoiler)[Say you have a terrorist in the family.
If the characters had been likeable it wouldn't have been a 5-star read because then they would have been like us and this is never going to happen in our lives.
Edit :: added spoiler alert per GR member request.(view spoiler)[Pretentious rot and Dutch version of Gone Girl only with sociopaths and food. Unpalatable. I know. That was too easy. And smug.Sorry. (hide spoiler)]
When Hogarth Publishers agreed to send me the e-galley of The Dinner I was ecstatic.
The Dinner is laid out in courses, from aperitif to digestif and is excellently plotted.
Brothers Serge and Paul and their wives have met to discuss their children and some trouble the boys, cousins Rick and Michel have gotten themselves into.
Serge picked the restaurant, over priced and showy where only someone with his celebrity status could hope to get a table.
There's enough to chew on here for a good book discussion.3.5 stars with a look for more from this author.
It might be fun in a shocking way if it's the first book of this kind you've ever read, but if you've read GONE GIRL then this is going to be more of the same for you.It's realistic.I'm laughing at how many people defend this kind of novel by saying, "Well, it's realistic." or "That's just how life is." Evil people do evil things and get away with them, feel no remorse and are never caught or punished.
Luckily, Serge knew people since he was a politician and all, maybe even the next prime minister!
The whole book could have stayed right there and I wouldn't have minded at all.
People will say, "Ugh, I didn't like any of the characters.
Boo hoo hoo." I didn't like any of these people either.
I don't think that's the point of the book.
It didn't turn these people into anti-heroes or make me feel for them, but it made them three dimensional even if they were still pretty awful.

but then myself answered back and said that the only way to find out was to watch it, so I did and I hadn't seen the movie at all.But the book had instilled such strong scenes and dialogues within the portals of my brain that I thought I had.
You know it’s all about one single dinner in a very posh restaurant so the whole book is one evening from around 8 to around 1 am but with copious flashbacks.
IMDB says it will be out next year starring Richard Gere, Laura Linney and Steve Coogan.
I can consider this one of the few messed up novels that amazed me by its darkness.
I cared about what he was trying to point out, and everything the main character said only made me like him better.This novel, like I said, was messed up.
At first I thought that the novel was going to have a terrible plot because of its seemingly nonexistent development, but thankfully I was proven wrong.The characters were the main reason why this novel was messed up.
I didn't expect them to develop the way they did but the author knew what he was doing.In the end one may ask, "What was this truly about?".
Of course, it goes without saying that anyone's reason for not liking a book is valid.
The sections of the book follow the courses, from Aperitif all the way to Digestif.
I found it a little hard to believe that the couples would decide to discuss their sons in a public place, given the 'delicate' subject matter.
(Later, I came to realise that the "syndrome" described in the book is a metaphor for pathological entitlement which gets passed down from parent to child by a lifetime of examples.) But Koch's writing was strong enough to make me take a morsel, and then another, and before I knew it, I'd finished all courses a pretty happy customer.Many compare this to Gone Girl.
I understand comparing a book to Gone Girl will push sales, so yay for that comparison plastered on every The Dinner reference.
But seriously, motherfuckers, this novel is more like Flynn's Sharp Objects and, in my eyes, better than Gone Girl.
I suppose one of comparisons between The Dinner and the Gillian Flynn-novel-that-will-not-be-named emerges from the fact I couldn't write a review of either without fearing revealing spoilers.
This book is better than its the "European Gone Girl or "topic of countless dinner party debates" horseshit tag lines.
what a vile little book.
This is the book that should have said, "If you liked Gone Girl..." And, after reading some reviews, maybe it did, and I just never saw it.
For me, this book is a top notch psychological thriller.Two couples meet at a posh restaurant for dinner, arriving to discuss some type of problem with their children.
Paul is the single narrator of this story and he recounts much of his past as each course of dinner arrives.
I didn't like a single character, but sure did love the book.
So, if you'd like your Gone Girl a little darker, you won't be disappointed!
You say something so razor-sharp that the person you say it to carries it around with them for the rest of their life."— Herman Koch (The Dinner)  This is one of my favorite books in the domestic noir genre.
Almost the entire story is set at a restaurant table.There are two unhappy couples having dinner together and acting as if everything is fine.
I could not put this book down except for minutes at a time and then I was constantly wondering "what in the world is going on here?"Each couple has a son.
I enjoyed this, but a lot of the events weren't ever fully explained and that bugged me quite a bit. It's definitely twisted and leaves a bit to the imagination, but it left me wanting more unfortunately.
The folks in this book got under my skin from the get go.
These aren't people you're going to like.
We see everything through the eyes of Paul, but that doesn't mean you like him.
And as the book goes on, you start questioning the man's sanity.
I am reading this for book club and am anxious for the discussion.
This is definitely one of those books where you don't care for the characters but there's lots of meat to discuss.
It's not an easy read, definitely not a feel good.
Hopefully not like these four parents…
There’s a bit too much on the menu in this wickedly fun psychological thriller from bestselling Dutch author Herman Koch.But he’s such a good writer (which comes through in the smooth translation), and his narrator is so savagely funny, insightful and demented that the entire thing goes down like an excellent meal – with a slightly nasty aftertaste because of the subject matter.Two middle-aged couples dine out at an expensive Amsterdam restaurant.
At first we’re on Paul’s side; he’s amusing, self-deprecating and his cutting social observations (about the restaurant, about his brother) seem as sharp as a chef's knife.
It was dumb luck that I read this book so close to the film's debut.) All we know is what our narrator tells us, and at times he and his memories are unreliable.
Many reviewers have commented on how unlikable all of the characters are, which is true -- they are selfish, vain, and inconsiderate, and our narrator's family is especially violent and has anger management issues -- but really, our society seems fascinated by such sociopaths.
Of course we don't condone his actions, but he seems rather calm and rational, up until the moment he starts beating you.While I ended up getting involved in the story, this was a difficult novel to read because of the violence and brutal descriptions.
– più o meno era così, in un film di tanti anni fa, cito a memoria).Però, è difficile superare il meccanismo d’identificazione, e quindi, come all’omodiegetico protagonista, mi stava particolarmente antipatico suo fratello, politico di facili sorrisi (come se ne conosce bene anche dalle nostre parti).Poi, mi sono detto, oh che bello, le due donne ne vengon fuori bene, sono le vere figure positive.Più avanti, ho pensato, ma come si permette 'sto qui di parlare in questo modo di un bambino africano adottato, com’è che è tanto razzista?”Het diner” di Menno Meyjes, 2013, il primo adattamento cinematografico, olandese.Andando avanti, non si salva proprio nessuno, né gli uomini, né le donne, né tanto meno i ragazzi: sono tutti mostri.Viene fuori un quadro abbastanza agghiacciante, senza nulla togliere al divertimento e alla piacevolezza della lettura.”I nostri ragazzi” di Ivano De Matteo, 2014, intelligente trasposizione e rilettura del romanzo di Koch.
Was different and interesting and kept me reading. But I probs wouldnt read again.
On the other hand if you like dark novels like Gone Girl and Defending Jacob and we need to talk about Kevin I think you will enjoy this book.There are some great lines in this book; You say something so razor-sharp that the person you say it to carries it around with them for the rest of their life.When the conversation turns too quickly to films, I see it as a sign of weakness, I mean films are more something for the end of the evening, when you dont have much else to talk about.I loved the premise of this novel, how far parents will go to protect a child and it really is a book that gets you thinking, What IF...This is a book that asks difficult questions and the plot is slow but shocking, I especially loved the build-up to the revelations and the way in which the story was narrated by Paul.
This Novel would make an excellent book club read, as the characters and revelations make for excellent discussion.
It’s a very specific story with a very specific audience.Marketing promoted The Dinner as a european Gone Girl.
The Dinner relies on the assumption that first-person narration naturally endears readers to the lead character.
Paul’s obvious disdain for his politician brother, Serge is established early.
You have restaurants that reserve a table for people like Serge Lohman, and this restaurant happens to be one of them…..It makes you wonder whether there isn’t one restaurant in the whole country where they don’t faint right away when they hear the name Serge Lohman on the phone.
And it’s that early appeal that lulls readers into a purposely false sense of security.
To begin with, the character who narrates the book comes across as petty, childish, and irritating from the opening pages.
He was never a sympathetic character, although I believe he initially was supposed to be, in comparison to his brother.
In addition, I didn't find it believable that these two couples, related by blood, would go to a high end restaurant where one member of the foursome is a well-known up and coming politician to discuss a private, disturbing, life-altering matter regarding their children.
I felt cheated by this book and the fact that all the characters lack such a moral compass.
First book that I have rated so highly even though I did not like any of the characters.
This is a book of moral complexity narrated by an unreliable narrator, who at first seems to take the politeness and political correctness out of all conversations at dinner.
From the beginning the reader knows this is not going to be a lighthearted dinner between siblings, the tension is felt almost immediately, but it is very hard to guess where exactly this will lead.
So despite the fact that I did not like any of these people I still wanted to keep reading to find out what was going on.
