https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/730250.The_Pinballs
adult review to come. maybe only four stars this time 'round.DECEMBERas part of my personal reading challenges for 2017, once a month i will be revisiting a favorite book from when i was a little bitty karen and seeing if it holds up to my fond memories and determining if i can still enjoy it as an old and crotchety karen.fingers crossed.
Re-read to be on par with the 6th graders in September.Byars did a good job crafting a slim, accessible story, with heavy, important themes, for relatively young readers.I remember this book being one of the first really moving realistic books I read--being surprised by the drama (not melodrama, not overdone...but really serious stuff); it stands up over time. The dated details were dated when I first read it--and don't/didn't interfere with the story. I suspect young readers will think of the pop-culture references as generic "made-up" pop-culture, as I did originally.
It shows how the kids go from feeling like "pinballs" with no control of their fates, to exerting some agency and asserting themselves.I'm not sure how a kid in care would feel about this book, especially since the cases here are pretty mild compared to what a lot of kids experience.
Based on my knowledge of the current child welfare system I guess it's pretty unrealistic, but I still think it does a good job of helping a kid not in this situation to imagine what it might be like, and the characters felt really real to me.My edition (from the eighties) has a much better cover.
His dad ran over his legs,and now hes an acoholic.And Carly's life is real hard because her dad said he would cut off all her hair!
So when Carly heard about that she said Thomas J.
So Carly and Thomas J.
got Harvey a puppy and named it Spots.
When Harvey saw the dog he wasnt so excited because he didnt know it was for him.
But he couldnt get up to play with the dog because his legs were infected!
and Carly had promised that his legs would get better so he can play with his new puppy!!!
It's really confusing, and not that good of a book, anyway.
I just hated how it ended with them on the bench at the park (I can't remember exactly.
I think the reason I though this is because I like mystery, while this book was mostly character driven.
I think the title is very clever, and it almost makes up for the ending.
But, these kids are pinballs, they can't just fix their whole life because the book ended.
Where the book ends their story of infinite bouncing continues.
They are dead, they don't exist anymore (or something like that)" The Pinballs is the exact opposite of that, and that is why Ii think the title is extremely appropriate to the story.
The Book is Mainly About 3 Kids that Live in A Foster home Together. I Like This Book because Is Mainly Explains About Self Control and How Adults make Mistakes at time. I Predict that what is going to Happen next is That they will Change their Behaviors and Try to change so that They can have a better life.
I found a copy of The Pinballs at a thrift store recently. I don't remember reading many books as a kid, but I remembered this one and picked it up. As an adult, I was moved by its brevity and characters. Betsy Byars achieves quite a bit for a 22,000 word novel, particularly one that deals with a difficult situation for children.
I read this book in middle school. I remember it being about encouragement and power through childhood during a very conflicted time for 3 foster children. They learn more about each-other, their past,and their hardships. I definitely recommend this book to children and teens.
I remember reading this book in elementary school and feeling heartbroken for the characters. The characters in this book are called Pinballs because they are foster-children bounced from house to house. If you want a quick read that will have you feeling some emotion, check this book out.
I read this book only once when I was a kid in the 90s but there was something about it that I left an impression on me.
I still remember a lot of the details.
I remember the boy in the wheelchair loved keeping lists, which is what I liked doing ever since I read this book.
I recall not liking the girl very much but she was still decent enough to tell the foster parents when the boy in the wheelchair doesn’t tell the truth about some numbness in his toes or something.
There was something about the details in this book that stuck to me.
As an adult, I am struck with how much the author Betsy Byars actually says in such a short novel.
While the story is deceptively simple, the reader is given much to think about concerning parents, abuse, neglect, love, families, loss, and kindness.
I know for my daughter this was the first time she read about abusive parents and foster families (as it was for me decades ago) and this book did a great job of showing her a world that actually exists but she's never seen without causing anxiety.
Bravo Ms. Byars.
The sisters have treated him kindly, but were never well-equipped to raise a child, and now they have broken their hips in a fall and so Thomas J, with no one else to care for him, has fetched up at the Masons'.Carlie has a naturally suspicious mind (she claims she remembers a babysitter stealing a gold cross necklace from her at only six months old, for instance) and she is determined not to be charmed into liking her new family.
I read this (shameless age brag, yup I am old) decades ago and the instant I saw this cover a flood of memories surfaced. Might be my first experience of having sunk into a book and walked with the characters. It still feels like I 'knew' them, looking back, rather than they were featured in a powerful story. I'm a bit torn on this: tempted now to read this again, but afraid that Adult Me will not appreciate and enjoy it as much as Pre-Teen Me did.
I remember kids reading this when I was a kid. I didn't read it until now, as an adult. I found it very compact and a bit abrupt, but the characters are still well-drawn and their growing support of each other seems real.
"The Pinballs" was a sad book that Harvey had both legs broken also for the people the are for them. i would not recommend this book because the story might be sad for some people. Also that Carile and her dad is a copy of "Sure Signs of Crazy" (if you had read it).
I liked the book but i didn't love it like the absolutely true diary of a part time indian or prisoner b-3087. I just didn't fit the book i am looking for.
I read this when I was a kid and I still remember it!
Good book for identifying character traits and characters who change over time.
Made me appreciate the family I had.
Second time reading after several years. Good book, not as good as the first time around. - Zoe
Great book to read with students!! Intense topics but from the first pages it will capture students attention!
Kids are resilient & dogs can make a situation better.
OK didn't like it
Liked how it ended and the the characters changed.
And they feel Carlie is the one who is most likely to be able to give that support, which Harvey desperately needs when he finally accepts that his mother doesn’t care about her family.The third character is Thomas J.
Communicating how he feels is something that Thomas J never learned to do, a fact which weighs on him most when he visits the Benson twins in the hospital and wants desperately to tell them that he loves them.When an author stacks as much against their characters as Byars does in The Pinballs, two approaches are common.
Though they are supposedly just pinballs, existing together in one space without any particular regard for one another, these three kids form a bond that helps all three of them look hopefully toward the future.I have known of this book for years because it was assigned reading in my own sixth grade language arts class, back in 1993, but the only thing that sounded at all familiar about it when I picked it up again was the name Thomas J.
The Story of Tracy Beaker focuses on a more difficult little girl, who has been left at the children’s home for a long time, with little hope for a foster family to take her in.
But soon, as Carlie spends more time with the boys and learns how they wound up at the home, she starts opening up-and all the kids start to learn they DO have control.Like I said before, the story starts out pretty slow, with the first 50 or so pages just explaining who each of the three kids are along with their backstories.
The fact that he never seems to apologize for all the other instance where his alcoholism had caused problems for Harvey (or the puppy incident) makes me go with the former, but it's pretty open for interpretation.Overall, The Pinballs was a very well-written, emotional story that did a lot with its' short length.
It is about Harvey, Carlie, and Thomas J., three foster children who come to live with the Masons.
The reading level is at a fifth grade level.My mixed feelings about this book was because it was the first book used in third grade talent development for my son.
It ends on a good note, but it might bring up some uncomfortable questions.It is very realistic and I would consider it contemporary/realistic fiction.As a teacher, I would use this at a fifth grade or higher level with mature readers.
Book #6 read in 2017Great read!
