https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18077875-essentialism
I'm trying to work on this as a manager, so it was nice to have this reinforced.· Keeping a journal and making time to read are important.
McKeown literally suggests the Book of Mormon, which makes me want to read trashy YA instead.
Essentialism!On the topic of Greg McKeown: I find it extremely - if not impossibly - difficult to take someone seriously who tries to use Rosa Parks and Nelson Mandela as examples of essentialist thinkers.
"Rosa Parks said NO to others' agendas, you can too!" Is this for real?
Google's got Lego sets in its offices, guys!
Could have been a 100 pages shorter without losing anything essential
It must be tough to write a book about Essentialism because people will be watching like a hawk to see whether you stick to your own advice – and sadly I’m not sure that he did.But first things first, I didn’t have a name for it but ‘Essentialism’ is what I have been doing for a while now – at work at least.
This book could be summed up with these two quotes:  “Essentialism is not about how to get more things done; it’s about how to get the right things done. It doesn’t mean just doing less for the sake of less either. It is about making the wisest possible investment of your time and energy in order to operate at our highest point of contribution by doing only what is essential.”“Remember that if you don’t prioritize your life someone else will.”   I enjoyed the book and felt that it was helpful, b
It is about making the wisest possible investment of your time and energy in order to operate at our highest point of contribution by doing only what is essential.”“Remember that if you don’t prioritize your life someone else will.”
Don't get me wrong, I think that everyone can take away SOMETHING from this book, but depending on your job and your life circumstances, I think it will be more helpful to some than others.
I hope I can put some of McKeown's ideas in place and have more Essentialism in my life.
I'm not sure I learned anything new but I definitely was pushed to think about some things that I generally set to the side about how I choose to spend my time and the projects I take on.
That doesn't mean the rest of us can't learn anything from it -- I'm in a position of enough power and freedom to recognize my opportunities to follow some of his advice -- but I don't see any recognition by McKeown that he's presenting a life plan for the professional upper class.
In order to do this, one must know what the essential things are, cut out the things that are not essential, and put oneself in a position where doing the essential things becomes effortless.It's a great book for everyone, and provides insights on how to apply this philosophy not only to one's personal life but to the workplace as well.
It's not really a "business" book, but I do think that managers and those in leadership positions within a company would get a lot out of it.For me personally, it was a big wake-up call.
I liked the table of contents. It laid out his essential points in a concise list. The chapters themselves were overworked and repetitive. Nothing new here, including his anecdotes and examples.
McKeown emphasizes the continuous analysis of: explore, eliminate, and execute.Like those before him, no good personal success book would is complete without a metaphor.
In your closet, instead of asking yourself if you should get rid of something, ask “If I didn’t already own this, how much would I spend to buy it?” In your closet of life and time, when an opportunity presents itself, McKeown encourages you to question each new opportunity.
I’ll list some of the other books the author quotes below, but one of the more enlightening ones that stands out is a reference to the study about the 10,000 hour rule, most famously known in Malcom Gladwell’s OUTLIERS.
This book contains great advice for affluent people who don't fear losing their jobs when they choose really important things like planning their weddings (real example from the book) over doing tasks that are part of the job that they've been hired to do.One bit of advice is - go to the South of France for a year when your work adversely affects your health.
Maybe you don't need to pay for electricity and housing if you live on the beach.Where is the chapter on why it's important to choose to pick your kid up from school when she can't stop vomiting, rather than to finish bringing the payroll system back on line?
I met Greg McKeown just after I finished his book, Essentialism.
I was taken aback, because not many people jump straight to such a core question when just getting to know someone - then again, he IS an essentialist, so what's the use for extraneous commentary.
:) We didn't have much time to speak as he was about to leave the church building with his family.
This man truly lives and breathes the principles that he teaches in this book.
After completing Essentailism, I immediately gave the book to a friend who I know to be overly encumbered with side-projects outside of his day job.
Because that's exactly how I've felt after reading McKeown's book.
The author gleans from the best and most successful people and their philosophy and supports his stance that, with a proper personal mission statement, SMART goals, and a willingness to simplify and change our perspective, we can prioritize and live, with, play a more meaningful life.
His philosophy is one that supports greater joy with family, less clutter and better use of time in all aspects.
This executive felt the pressure to conform yet again declined by explaining that Sunday was his day to worship God. He gained respect for his personal time and values.
Boundaries, purpose and goals are essential to a fulfilling life in every aspect.
Too much verbiage. For a book that teaches essentialism, there was a lot that could have been edited. At least half the book.
This is a case of me finding exactly the book I needed at exactly the right time.
(So the rating reflects that--it may not be helpful in the same degree to others.) McKeown offers a simple but profound idea: that we accomplish more when we are choosier about where we direct our efforts.
To read a book that articulates many of the deep urges I've been struggling with, makes me want to attack this struggle with renewed purpose.
I think the author's points about boundaries and mindfulness will resonate with many readers, whether they're in the business world or trying to carve out quiet time for artistic pursuits.
It stayed singular for the next five hundred years.
Only in the 1900s did we pluralize the term and start talking about priorities.""When we are unclear about our real purpose in life-- in other words, when we don't have a clear sense of our goals, our aspirations and our values-- we make up our own social games.
We waste time and energy on trying to look good in comparison to other people.""Apply the principle of zero-based budgeting" to your life and time.
Don't budget based on existing commitments- start from scratch.Can I buy you this book?
Much longer than it needed to be (ironically), but it was worth re-reading if only to remind myself to think deeply about what is actually important to me, and what isn't.
Full disclosure: I received a free copy of this book from my friend Bailey at Random House; there was no expectation of a review, favorable or otherwise.
In a nutshell, Mckeown's book encapsulates an idea I've been circling around in my personal life for years, but provides concrete and approachable methods for reducing the activity, psychological, and physical clutter in your life so you can focus on what is truly essential.
It's an empowering approach to work (make choices in order to focus exclusively on one important area of improvement), home (prioritizing your family so that you are truly present for them), and creative life.
I do see value in the message for many very stressed out people, and some bits resonated with me, but overall I have to agree with the negative reviewers on Goodreads that this guy is annoying with his self-defeating neologisms (particularly "nonessentialist") and that there is not much of anything new here in terms of substance. I think that the authors he cites have written better books on the topic, e.g.:     Among more current books, I would recommend: The potential value-added from this boo
I think that the authors he cites have written better books on the topic, e.g.: 
The potential value-added from this book would be from the updated examples and analogies, but these are problematic.
For instance the author uses journalism as an analogy for Essentialism because journalists sift through the noise to focus on the core truth of things.
This is one of the biggest examples in my lifetime of "nonessentialism" (failure to plan, failure to say No as a default, etc.) so it makes me doubt the depth of thinking or reality-checking that went into anything in this book.
"The life of an Essentialist is a life without regret "Highlights: "The life of an Essentialist is a life of meaning.
It is life that really matters.""The problem with being sleep-deprived is that it compromises our ability to tell the difference, and thus our precious ability to prioritize.""When there is a serious lack of clarity about what the team stands for and what their goals and roles are, people experience confusion, stress, and frustration" "If you have correctly identified what really matters, if you invest your time and energy in it, then it is difficult to regret the choices you make.
You become proud of the life you have chosen to live.""Done is better than perfect.""There should be no shame in admitting to a mistake, after all, we really are only admitting that we are wiser than we once were."
Рецензия и визуальный конспект в моем блоге: http://s-kalinin.blogspot.ru/2015/01/... Книга не предлагает ничего революционного или сверх-оригинального, но она "о главном" ;))
None of this makes us a bad person.
Yet as hard as it can be to say no to someone, failing to do so can cause us to miss out on something far more important.” Out of all these latest nonfiction books I've been reading/listening to, this one has been the most eye opening/life altering I've come across.
It was cutting into my personal life, making it where I didn't have time for one, and it was destroying my health since I didn't have time to cook meals and/or go to the gym due to always working.
I personally listened to the audio book, since my main job allows headphones, and the artist narrates it and it was fantastic.
When there is a high level of clarity, on the other hand, people thrive.”“Without courage, the disciplined pursuit of less is just lip service.”“Since ultimately, having fewer options actually makes a decision ‘easier on the eye and the brain,’ we must summon the discipline to get rid of options or activities that may be good, or even really good, but that get in the way.”“I realized that until I knew what was important right now, what was important right now was to figure out what was important right now!”"The best asset we have for making a contribution to the world is ourselves.
The principles in this book will help.Some of my favorite bites of wisdom from inside include:* Have extreme criteria for what you will say yes to* Only say yes to those things that score a 9 or 10 out of 10* Make more choices.
"Let me get back to you." Allow yourself space to say a graceful no.* To counter the bias of "ownership," ask yourself this question: If I didn't already own this (or have this opportunity), how hard would I be willing to work to get it?* Don't mistake output with effort.
As someone who's trying to implement simplicity in my life, I found this book to be informative, intuitive, and interesting.
Greg McKeown shares the idea of "less, but better" from the famous designer Dieter Rams.
We have the power to pursue those things that we deem better.
Do less and receive better outcomes.
I listened to the audiobook (can we say nice British accent?) but will be purchasing this book to read.
There were so many good points, so many good stories, that I'll be reading and rereading it to adopt his simple and easy way to have a better life.
- Sometimes what you don’t do is just as important as what you do.”6 In short, he makes big bets on the essential few investment opportunities and says no to the many merely good ones.- WITHOUT GREAT SOLITUDE NO SERIOUS WORK IS POSSIBLE.—Pablo Picasso- you actually need to set aside time to just think, to process, and to sorta digest what you've learned and what's going on- "The word priority came into the English language in the 1400s.
We waste time and energy on trying to look good in comparison to other people."- "Apply the principle of zero-based budgeting" to your life and time.
This was just what I needed to hear. With any self-help book, some speak more to others, but this was what spoke to me now. While a lot of the book deals with simplifying your work life, it is applicable to every part of your life, which the author mentions. When you focus on those things that essential to you, you live a fulfilling life. I have purchased a copy of this book and will be referring to it again and again because it rang true.
Only then can you make your highest contribution to the things that really matter.I think a lot of us intuitively get the principle of focus makes for better results; the hard work, in my mind, is deciding what to focus on and being disciplined enough to say no to other things."Dieter Rams was the lead designer at Braun for many years.
Ways to put a little "think week" in your life every day: read something from classic literature for the first 20 minutes of the day.
It's clear that writing the book was itself an exercise in essentialism (the disciplined pursuit of less but better) and reading the book elicits the practice of essentialism (disciplined, focused attention) on the part of the reader.Essentially, that's a long way of saying that the writing is very focused and you will also need to be very focused it to in order to receive the full benefit of the book.Every social worker, psychotherapist and business 101 student is familiar with SMART (specific, measurable, actionable, realistic, time bound) goals.
An essentialist has a mission strategy that is both concrete and inspirational.
Much like other behavior based writers - Anthony Robbins, Stephen Covey, and Clayton Christensen – McKeown provides good information to improve life and ways to create habits that support successful results.
I enjoyed reading this book and found it to be of good practical use.
Still, I can see how this may have put some readers off.Overall, my belief is that depending on where you are at in life at the time you read this will be the primary influence of whether you like the information McKeown presents.
However, toward the end it got a little too "on message." At the beginning the author says that he is absolutely NOT saying to stop helping others and only focus on yourself, but as the book wrapped up I got the feeling that yes, he kinda was saying that.
I do not feel that reading this book was a waste, but I infinitely preferred "Give and Take" by Adam Grant.
So, if you are thinking of picking up this book, I recommend that you read Adam Grant first.
If you have already read this book, read Adam Grant next.
Over the last twenty-odd years I've moved from frugality to voluntary simplicity to minimalism, and now I have a name for my post-minimalism stage in which I've found myself: essentialism.
The idea of paring down to the highest quality essentials, to only those things that absolutely do what you need them to do -- whether we're talking about physical possessions or time commitments -- is exactly what I've been striving toward over the last two years, with mixed success.
