https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2765547-the-lost-queen-of-egypt
Ankhesenamun. Queen of the Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt. Daughter of Nefertiti. Sister-wife of Tutankhamun (because that's how they rolled in ancient Egypt).  Whoops wrong picture. #sorrynotsorryShe may be best known for being married to the most famous pharaoh in the world. She was thirteen and he was nine. Despite their young age, they are believed to have had a happy marriage. Sadly, the marriage did not last long. King Tut died suddenly at the age of 19. They had two daughters, both stillborn
King Tut died suddenly at the age of 19.
They had two daughters, both stillborn (they were buried with him in his tomb).
Tutankhamun and Ankhesenamun were supposed to be erased from history.
The boy king and his queen were supposed to have been forgotten for eternity.
Tut's tomb lay forgotten for three thousand years, buried beneath the sand.
Sadly, Ankhesenamun's tomb has never been found.
Sometime after Tut had died, she mysteriously vanished.
Perhaps, one day, the mystery will be solved.After an extremely long search I have finally found a great book on ancient Egypt.
UPDATE BELOW: Having recently finished The Egyptologist: A Novel, I was thinking about the book that I loved as a kid that turned me on to archaeology and ancient Egypt.
Didn’t remember the name of it, although I read it at least 3 times when I was 10 or 12.
Will pick it up next week and see if this is my long-lost out-of-print favorite book of my pre-teen years.
********************************************************This did turn out to be my favorite historical novel from childhood, with my BFF Ankhesenpaaten, bride of Tutankhamen, as the protagonist.
I distinctly remembered this lovely portrait in the front of the book.
| Like apparently everybody else who ever read this book, I stumbled across it in the school library when I was about ten.
As an adult a long Google search involving what details I remembered and the colour of the cover finally led me back to it, but with such poor availability I didn't expect to read it again.
The book arrived at my library quickly and I read it in a sitting, glad to discover it holds up to the reread.
I would recommend this book to any youth between 12 and 16 who enjoys a good historical adventure, providing they could get their hands on a copy of it.
Unfortunately, I have recently discovered that this book is out of print.
I didn't realize that when I acquired my very own tattered copy that the school librarian sought fit to save from deaccession destruction and give to me after seeing the check out card filled with only my signatures.
It was well worn and several times repaired from my repeated use.
I loved it then and still love it now.
Fab novel about what happened to Akhenesamen after Tutankhamen died. I read the book originally at a high school library in the Claremont neighborhood of San Diego during a break. We were there for an Academic Decathalon competition. I only got about halfway through the book and it took me nearly a decade to find another copy to finish the book.
I really enjoyed this book! Morrison did a splendid job of breathing life into these historical figures and her descriptions were so detailed that I felt as if I was standing next to them. Morrison also included a list of books for further reading and reference at the end, which is very helpful. I definitely recommend this one!
This is the book that started it all for me.
My love of the 18th dynasty of ancient Egypt (Kemet/Kmt) stemmed from this book and from my "aunt" Minnie who was a student of Professor Carter, the discoverer of King Tutankhamen/aten's tomb.
The fond memories I hold for this book probably colors my review.
I now know that the book is based on old knowledge of the time but that doesn't diminish my love for it.
Like many others I read this as a schoolgirl. Like many others, I remember absolutely loving it. I think I already had an interest in Ancient Egypt but this must have solidified that interest. As someone commented, it is probably pretty loosely based on the historical record, and a lot has been discovered since the book was written. I'm off to see if my library has a copy.
As a child of 7 or 8, I had a recurring dream of sitting cross legged with a tablet for writing upon my lap. Not until I discovered this book in junior high did I realize I was dreaming of being a scribe.This book started me on my love of all things ancient Egypt.History, romance and court intrigue all here in this novel. Try to find a copy!
I think I checked this book out of the library more times than any other when I was a kid.
I read this book when I was in sixth grade; it was probably the longest book I'd ever read at that point, and I remember loving every page of it.
As with many books that I've read when I was a kid, this one pales on re-reading. Originally I loved this book and it instilled a life long love of ancient Egypt. I could have sworn that the title of the book that I read was 'Daughter of the Nile'. Now though I found it kind of ponderous, with lots of description, not too much dialogue, and children acting and speaking in very un-childlike ways.However, it was a really nice revisit to my childhood.
I read this from the library when I was little. I'd love to get my hands on a copy...
The depth of this book far exceeds ordinary fiction written for children.
She marries Tutankhaten at the age of 12, normal for the times and royalty, and they quickly learn the power of the priests of Amon and must change their names to honor that god, hiding their loyalty to Aten.
It's a meaty book for voracious readers of any age.
(I should add that it was published in 1937, not long after the discovery of King Tut's tomb but well before DNA testing, etc.)Why is Lucile Morison the lost queen of children's literature?
Being somewhat familiar with the story, thanks to a fantastic talk from Bob Brier at Magna Cum Murder last year, I had a good idea what was going to happen.
I expect the book reflects the scholarship of the time, which would explain the differences in how Morrison saw the death of Tut and the way Brier described it in his talk.
Morrison cast Ankhsenamon as a romantic heroine and does a good job making her an entirely sympathetic character and her telling of events after Tutankhamon's death is a fanciful idea I like.
As I think of them, I'm adding books that I remember reading when I was young.
This book is one that I found in my high school library and I was attracted to it because it was about ancient Egypt.
It's a novelization of the life of the daughter of King Tut (Tutankhamon or Tutenkhaten, as he preferred.) I remember how much I loved the book and how much I learned about life in ancient Egypt.
So, if you run across a copy in a library or in a used book sale, grab it and read it!
One of my favorite childhood books, and I have long credited it with getting me started in archaeology.
It was brought to mind today when I thought of giving my only copy (bought on eBay probably 10 years ago) to a friend.
Then I thought I'd just go get another copy for her, but it has apparently become a collectors' book and is quite pricey.
It is the story of Ankhesenpaaten (later Ankhesenamun) who became the wife of Tutankhaaten (later Tutankhamun).
It is a wonderful read and, obviously, left a lasting memory.
In 1967 for our Centennial project (Canada's 100th birthday) our grade 6 teacher, Miss Wilder, had us all take out the dialogue for a chapter of the LQofE. She edited it and created a play based on the book. My love of theatre probably began at that point, and I've discovered since that at least two other students in that class were involved in theatre. I have a project in mind, and this is a long shot: Were you in that play in 1967 in Ottawa? Get back to me. :-)
Richly detailed, beautifully represents life on the Nile as seen through the Queen's eyes and heart. Although an aged book, it captures the life and times of that period well, despite the recent facts to come out regarding the royal family. It does not address some more adult topics, so expect a calm read for all ages.
This was one of my favorite childhood books. I wish I could find a copy somewhere but it is out of print.
Loved this book as a child.
I loved this book as a child and it started me on my love of everything Egyptian. Or did I love the book because I had a past life (or several) in Egypt? We may never know...
I like reading about how people lived. Seems plausable to me, even tho written not long after discoveries of Howard Carter.
One of my favorite books. It created a lifelong interest in this era.
This story was fun and fast moving. It never ceases to amaze me how much we knew about Egypt when this book was written! Great history!
I found this on the library swap table today...
