https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781664.The_Sexual_Revolution
If possible read the first German edition of 1936. The American edition published in the early 40's bleached out the Marxist component of the book.
absolutly knowledgable, ...ظاهرن "گوش کن آدمک" تنها اثر ویلهم رایش، روانشناس، پژوهشگر و زیباشناس آلمانی ست که توسط حسین آقایاری به فارسی ترجمه شده و البته در خارج از کشور چاپ و منتشر شده است.
انتشارات نوید، آلمان، 1365دکتر رایش که به متخصص امور جنسی هم مشهور است و آثار تکان دهنده ای در این زمینه نوشته، بانی نگاهی تازه به مساله جنس ، بدن زن و مرد و بنیادهای فیزیکی و روانی مسایل جنسی ست.
اثار او بصورت گسترده ای در همه ی زبان های اروپایی مورد استفاده قرار گرفته و در اکثر انستیتوها جزو ماده های درسی بوده است
I gave the book 2 stars, but for content 1 would be enough. However, it is interesting to learn what sexual revolutionary thinkers thought.Reich is from the Freudian-left school, and then moved (escaped?) to the US in the late 30s where his fame really grew. It must have been weird for him to imagine 2017: emancipated LGBT community, high-profile companies like facebook allow dozens of genders & polyamory is just one of those things some people do.So I hoped to read in this book something about the ideas behind free love & liberalizing morals. But no. It's mostly fact-free philosophizing.
Didn't really got past page 50 or so. Didn't enjoy the writing style of Wilhelm Reich and just gave up reading. Also some facts mentioned seems very questionable, probably way outdated. I would have given it 1 star but information in this book could be useful for social science or people interested in history of sexual revolution/change in soviet union, 2 star seems reasonable.
wilhelm reich kitaplarının içine eden çevirileri için payel ve bertan onarana çok teşekkürler
Reich also blends Marxism with sexuality, giving sexuality primary historical basis for causing economic exploitation of the masses.
However, much of the proposed sexual freedom program advocated by Reich has been put in place in the West.
We may be sexually freer, but are in fact no better off socially.
A final comment regarding a claim of Reich: juvenile delinquency is due to teens not having a private room to engage in unrestricted sex (paraphrased, but not far off the original).
I suppose the police should say to the kid who has just robbed the convenience store: "get a room."Onward and downward.
Brave Reich qui a eu le courage de s'opposer à Freud frontalement et qui fut à l'origine de la libération sexuelle avant 1960 et ce, de manière scientifique. On lui doit Les Enfants de SummerHill à Ipswich, entre autre. Comme l'ingénuité n'advient pas par hasard W.Reich a connu son lot de souffrance et une fin tragique en défiant l'autorité américaine avec sa théorie Orgone.Brave W. Reich!Come and have a look at what free education was at summerhill:- PICTURES:http://images.google.cn/images?hl=zh-...- OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF A.S. NEIL'S TEACHING:http://www.summerhillschool.co.uk/
Pretty interesting. The part analyzing the Soviet Revolution was particularly interesting. However, there's a lot of bad opinions in here. Reich, for example, believes homosexuality is in most cases caused by the inhibition of heterosexual impulses, and that if we all have access to free, fulfilling heterosexual sex, homosexuality will disappear. Reich's attitudes towards mental illness also are bad and potentially oppressive in my opinion. I think this book would be interesting if rewritten after the beginning(s) of the Gay Liberation movement(s) and after other people's critiques of psychoanalysis and psychiatry. But then it'd be a pretty different book.
Honestly, I only read the first half—not because I didn't like it, but because I'm reading it to write a paper, and I think the first half gave me what I need for now. I'll go back and get the rest another time (maybe).I was led to believe it would be excessively "dense," but I didn't find it too bad. Maybe I had a good translation or something. I appreciated Reich's theories and observations about the connections between sexual morality and the authoritarian state, although I often wished he'd provide more evidence of his claims.
Прекрасная книга, которую должен прочитать каждый. Жаль только, что ситуация с браком и переживанием сексуальных удовольствий так и не изменилась. Вокруг все та же репрессивная мораль и "счастливое детство".
Make love not war.
I love how he thinks though I don't agree with everything he says. A must read for the serious revolutionary.
much more concrete than i expected and the nuances of what lays beyond the basic components of sexuality is endless...the word revolution is accurate.
La première partie est excellente, mais la deuxième perd tout son coté scientifique pour laisser place à son idéologie politique communiste.
Make love not war.
This could have been called Sexuality for Marxists, using the old Soviet Union as a case study. Outdated in a number of ways but a fascinating read exploring social science.
