https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234232.A_Suitable_Vengeance
I do like Elizabeth George's style, and her way with a mystery, but this novel epitomizes everything in her Lynley series I find the most irritating.
The subplots involving Deborah, Simon and Helen in the other books have been my least favorite feature.
I do like her way with red herrings and feints--she certainly kept me guessing to the end with more than one twist or turn.But yes, I miss Havers and her working class sensibilities scraping against Lynley's upper class crust.
Elizabeth George creates a strange universe where an assault and attempted rape (boyfriend on girlfriend) is viewed by a bevy of bystanders (all acquaintances or relatives of the pair) who bring it to a stop, but then some aristocratic code of silence (they are "all too self-servingly well-bred") prevents them from ever mentioning it, or bringing it to the attention of law enforcement - even though it happens on property owned by a Scotland Yard inspector - or attempting to file charges.
In this universe, called Cornwall, a father shows a picture of his son to a Lady (that would be an aristocratic female) and asks, "Is this the kind of man you'd say no to if he asked you to spread your legs, missy?" Also people say things like, "You've never been close to feeling anything for anyone.
Quite frankly, he hates himself too much to hate anyone else.As for the others, Scotland Yard Inspector Thomas Lynley, the eighth Earl of Asherton, has sought and achieved vengeance against his mother for fifteen years.
Oh, yes – vengeance is mine, sayeth Deborah!Peter Lynley is Thomas Lynley’s younger brother.
Thus, the sexual mutilation comes across as yet another instance of “a suitable vengeance.”Mick is just the first of four people who will die within one week, that same week that Lynley has taken Deborah, Simon and Lady Helen Clyde to Cornwall for the engagement festivities.
It is about five intertwined characters: Lynley, Simon, Deborah, Lady Helen and Havers.
A Suitable Vengeance is the fourth book in Elizabeth George's Inspector Lynley series, but chronologically it occurs years before the first three.
In it we see the main characters much younger and gain far more insight into the tangled relationships of Lynley, Deborah, and St. James.
Given how much those relationships make me want to shake each one of the players hard, this was my least favorite so far.
The mystery itself was interesting, but bizarre in a way that did not redeem the book.
I did enjoy the revelations regarding Lynley's relationship with his family, but again, those did not do enough to redeem the book.
Aber dann hat sich mein Interesse am Genre etwas verschoben und ich hab sie nicht mehr weitergelesen.Umso schöner, jetzt wieder ganz frisch einzusteigen, denn ich hab beim Lesen gemerkt, dass mir zwar die Figuren alle einigermaßen bekannt sind, aber an die Handlung konnte ich mich nicht mehr erinnern!
Auf die bin ich jetzt schon sehr gespannt, denn soweit ich mich erinnere, stehen da die Ermittlungen mehr im Vordergrund und vor allem auch Lynleys zukünftige Partnerin beim Scotland Yard, die hier nur einen kurzen Auftritt hatte.Ich war nicht ganz so begeistert wie vor 20 Jahren aber ich hab mich gleich wieder in der Geschichte wohl gefühlt und bin jetzt gespannt auf den nächsten Teil.© AleshaneeWeltenwanderer
When you're reading a whodunnit and the crime doesn't appear until after page 100, you should take the hint that maybe it isn't the right book for you.I've read a few other Elizabeth George books and knew that Lynley was a bit of a simp and his friend St. James wasn't really much better, but this book exaggerated those annoying qualities to such a degree that portions were nearly unreadable. The mystery, once it got going, was adequate. Unfortunately the Harlequin-style writing buried the fun under multiple layers of "who gives a shit."
The story is very complex, one that explains the background of several characters of this Inspector Lynley mystery series .After reading the 3 first books I had trouble with the sequences of events regarding the characters things seem to be out of synch.
I was trying to remember what happened to them previously and I found it conflicted with the way they are presented now.
The characters are self -absorbed, full of themselves compared to the previous books making it hard to relate to them.
I agree with others who suggest it would have made a wonderful short story.
Her engagement to Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley will be formally announced during their gala week-end at Howenstow.The festivities, however, are not as merry as planned due to the deepening sorrow heaved on Simon St. James.
Lady dorothy Lynley has after all these many years both her sons under one roof at home in Howenstow.So many lives in conflict with each other at an impasse to find any resolution.
The game begins as Inspector Lynley and St. James re thrown into one of the most diabolical cases they've ever encountered.
This was my 4th Inspector Lynley book.
This was the 4th book by Elizabeth George I have read.The murder mystery was interesting but it was somewhat overwhelmed by the romantic plots sourced in the tensions between the main characters Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley (the 8th Earl of Asherton), his best friend Simon St.James (a forensic scientist) and the woman they both love (Deborah Cotter, a professional photographer).
Before the end of the weekend two more people are dead, and figuring out why this has happened is quite an engaging tale.Overall, I would say that this is not one of her best entries in the Lynley series; however it is as brilliantly plotted as the other three books I have read are.
If the reader could get past the guilt complexes of the main characters, there is probably a good mystery here.....but 3/4 of the narrative deals with the guilt of unrequited love, guilt over minor incidents from the past, guilt over adultery, guilt over physical infirmities and just plain guilt over anything you choose.
There is such angst that I am surprised they all didn't just commit suicide and escape their self-imposed suffering.
I was not engaged and struggled to complete this book....I was looking for a good Elizabeth George mystery, not a psychological study.
It was a little disorienting to go back in time, with no mention of what's happened through book #3, but this book certainly establishes a lot of history.All the ingrown relationships seem a bit contrived and overwrought, as does the cross-dressing part of the plot, but I care enough about the characters to keep reading and even feel satisfied to know more about their background.
The British "stiff upper lip" stereotype is certainly a big part of things, yet again.
I swear these characters are the masters of it, and of the "elephant in the living room" syndrome.
This was a decent murder mystery, but mostly it's a soap opera starring Lynley and his friends and family, set on his family estate in Cornwall.
This book is a prequel, covering events that occurred several years before the first book in this series, so you already know how all of the drama is going to be resolved.Havers only appears briefly, in a couple of unflattering scenes.I find that I like Lady Helen more and more, and that I rather dislike Deborah.
I can't say there was anything extraordinary about the book, but as soon as I finished it, I wanted to pick up the next one.
(3.5) While this blast-from-the-past book was a good way to deepen understanding about how the messy love triangle between Lynley, St. James, and Deborah occurred that is alluded to in the first book, it didn't include enough of Havers to keep the dynamic I love going strong.
We need her to balance out the upper-crust story of Lynley et al.
Still, it was interesting to get background on Lynley and his brother Peter and his mother, and the mystery was decent, so I'm giving it a solid 3.5 stars.It's also the perfect time to take a break from the series and read other novels that have been tempting me!
Good read. More of a relationship story, with murder and crime mixed in. I have read her books with The two dectectives, Havers and McPherson but they only had small parts in this one. Thomas Lindly of CID, falls in love with a woman who grew up in his best friends household, it is when he takes her home to mom, for an engagement party weekend and his brother shows up, things start to happen.....
, 2, in which Barbara Havers is collecting Tommy for a case from Simon and Deborah's wedding.I guess I'm expecting the world especially with how masterfully George pulls all these red herrings into a simple cohesive solution.
He is a Detective Inspector with Scotland Yard, and he is screwing up all over the place not behaving like the policeman he is.
Why not hire on some divers to search the sea for the case instead of having a couple of the lads diving with masks and snorkels??The StoryIt's Simon's desperate and undeclared love for Deborah set against her and Tommy's involvement, which leads us to the family weekend at Tommy's estate in Cornwall, Howenstow — Tommy has proposed and Deborah is to meet the family.And what a weekend to remember.
Simon is 11 years older than her, and to be honest, it felt a bit as if he'd been grooming her as she grew up.
Plus, this takes place before Lynley met Havers, so I couldn't even look forward to her coming in and pricking these people's self-importance (reading the reviews on goodreads I see that she does show up at some point, but not for long).I'm hoping this one is not necessary to continue reading the series (well, I'm pretty sure it isn't, since I enjoyed the later books just fine when I first read them).
The lovely and talented photographer, Deborah Cotter, has come back to England from her years studying in the U.S. Simon St. James, a forensic scientist, has been in love with her since she was 17.
No less ardently in love with Deborah is Inspector Tommy Lynley, who is about to announce his engagement to her at his family home in Cornwall.
Deborah clearly loves them both.But before the weekend party can break up, the usually peaceful Cornwall countryside is riddled with murder, and everyone’s a suspect from St. James’s sister, Sidney, to Tommy Lynley’s brother.
Fourth in the Lynley books, but the events take place before the first novel. Possibly the reason I ‘wasnt Feeling it’! I was just getting used to the central characters, I’d really enjoyed the previous book and then along comes this. Didn’t put me off though!
While this is listed as Lynley #4, it is a prequel to number one.
Why is Lord Asherton, Thomas Lynley, Eighth Earl and Detective Inspector of CID, not at center stage as the lead protagonist in this story?
A decade after Thomas’s father died, the entire Lynley family with various childhood friends, lovers and servants are all coming down to the Howenstow residence for a weekend to introduce Deborah Cotter to the family.
Or is it?Despite a slow, slightly disjointed beginning of a hundred pages or so, the author Elizabeth George eventually brings into play the sad and ugly death of a Cornwall local which will send the Ashertons spinning out of their more comfortable miseries into the depressed universe the reader has come to know and love from the previous books.
Although Suitable Vengeance is the fourth Inspector Thomas Lynley novel published, it concerns events that occurred before A Great Deliverance, the first of the series published.
Suitable Vengeance focuses on the complex relationships among Lynley, Eighth Earl of Ashemore, his long time friend, the crippled forensic scientist Simon St. James, and Deborah Cotter, the 20 year old daughter of St. James' long time butler who was raised "downstairs" in the St. James household.
Lady Helen Clyde, St. James' present associate and former mistress, plays a lesser role, and Sgt. Barbara Havers, who will later become Lynley's working class partner in Great Deliverance, has only a walk on part.
ALL of which takes place well before A Great Disappearance in which Barbara Havers is collecting Tommy for a case from Simon and Deborah’s wedding.The StorySo, that said, lordy, what a convoluted, swirling tide of clues is this.
The primary story is of Simon’s desperate and undeclared love for Deborah set against her and Tommy’s involvement, which leads us to the family weekend at Tommy’s estate in Cornwall, Howenstow---Tommy has proposed and Deborah is to meet the family.
Tommy is a Detective Inspector with Scotland Yard and he is screwing up all over the place not behaving like the policeman he is.
I am working my way through all the Inspector Lynley novels and I have loved every one. I'm trying to read them in order if they are available that way through the library. The story lines are so well planned and developed, it's a pleasure to read one after another that are each so different but connected. I love the way George develops the stories, sometimes the actual murder is more that half way through the novel as she develops the back story. So far all have been top notch, in my opinion.
The small party includes his best friend forensic scientist Simon St James and Lady Helen Clyde as well as Deborah’s father Joseph, Tommy’s valet and the man who has cared for, supported and lived with him since the crippling accident eight years ago that injured his leg.Readers meet Tommy’s younger brother Peter who has arrived with his girlfriend Sasha Nifford as well as Simon’s younger sister Sidney who has brought along her boyfriend Justin Brooke, a senior scientist at a local pharmacology lab.
The love triangle between Thomas, Simon and Deborah provide the main narrative of the book while a series of three murders provides the context for their story.
This fourth entry into the Thomas Lynley series is actually a "prequel." The first book in the series, A Great Deliverance, starts with the wedding of Deborah Cotter and Simon St. James.
Thomas Lynley and Deborah Cotter are newly engaged.
His brother Peter, a cocaine addict, and his girl friend are also in residence, and St. James and Helen Clyde also attend the weekend festivities.
A local neighbor is brutally murdered, as is another house guest, and suspicion falls on Peter Lynley.
The relationships between the principal characters - Lynley, St. James, and Deborah in particular-- are intense, and Elizabeth George lays their inner conflicts bare.
Finally we find out what is behind the Thomas Linley's sadness, Deborah and Simon's odd reactions to Tommy.
The sad history of his family affects Tommy and makes him the kind of detective that has empathy and insight--the kind that can solve mysteries that others can't.
The murder mystery in this book revolves around Tommy's brother Peter, Simon's sister Sidney and each brothers desire to protect their families.
Thomas pursued Deborah when Simon wouldn't because he felt it wouldn't be honorable.
Deborah felt abandoned by Simon so she let Tommy into her life and grew to love him.
After reading this one, I'm not sure if I want to read another book by Elizabeth George.
This book centers on murders happening around Lynley's friends and family rather than a police case that he is solving for his job.
It's obvious that George really enjoys writing about British aristocracy, but the problems of the Lynley family all seem so...
And, of course, the evildoers turn out to be those with a grudge against the Lynleys, preserving the family and their friends from any taint of guilt.
We also get to see Lynley, etc.
It was a little of an adjustment to go back in time to before the Lynley/Havers duo came to be, and untangling the different relationships to back to the "beginning" was a little complicated.
I mean, do most people have this much drama & unspoken feelings between the same 4-6 people?
And knowing how things end up later on kind of took the suspense out of "will she end up with the right guy?" But other than that, I thought this book was on par with the others in the series.
And now, back to our previously scheduled installments of the series.
The murder of Mick Cambrey certainly does appear to be a "suitable vengeance" when he is found in his home dead from head wounds, but also castrated.
Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley, aka the 8th Earl of Asherton, just happens to be visiting his estate close to the murder site.
Although he isn't part of the investigation, he becomes involved due to the actions of his brother, Peter.
There is a lot of angst in this book, as in most of Elizabeth George's books, but her back stories are always so interesting that you hardly need the murder mystery to keep you reading.
This book is a snooze-fest. The characters that were so interesting in the first three books are made out to be weak and self-absorbed. Havers is such an interesting character and she hardly makes an appearance in this book. As for the mystery - it was really drawn out and dull. When I read her first three novels I found I could not put them down. I actually have to force myself to pick this one up. I'm not sure I want to continue on to the fifth. Is it worth it?
