https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2251306.Brain_Rules
He's not quite as engaging as Dr. Oliver Sacks, but in the overall context of putting things together to form an overall idea of improving education based on how the brain works, it is pretty engaging.
A lot of the material I've read elsewhere, but this book does a good job of tying it all together.There is a DVD included (I haven't had a chance to view it yet) and an accompanying web site.
If you want to get the research behind the 12 principles, get the book.
The worst kind of stress is the feeling that you have no control over the problem— you are helpless.Wiring“What you do and learn in life physically changes what your brain looks like— it literally rewires it.”AttentionI’ve said for a long time that humans don’t remember facts, we remember facts couched in emotions.
To get practical, you can create science, art, language stations to help people remember better.We all know this to be true - our memory isn’t perfect.
فهي تزيد وتسارع تكوينها، تساعدها على البقاء أكثر، وتجعلها أكثر قدرة على مكافحة الضرر والقلق.2- البقاء: الدماغ البشري تطور حسب التحديات التي واجهت البشر وتكيف لحل المشكلات التي تواجههم منذ القدم.3- التميز:كل دماغ يعمل بطريقة مختلفة.- لا يوجد أي شخصين لهما نفس تركيب الدماغ، ولا حتى التوائم.- انظمتنا الدراسية تتجاهل اختلاف أدمغة البشر عندما تحتم مقررات معينة تدرس بنفس الطريقة لكل الأطفال بنفس العمر.-شركات مثل أمازون تراعي فوارق الاختلاف بين الناس وتفكيرهم بأن تخصص تجربة استخدام خاصة لكل شخص بناءً على مواضيع اهتمامه.
لكنه ليس مؤهل للقلق الذي يدوم أكثر من ذلك خصوصاً في الحالات التي نشعر أنه ليس لدينا تحكم فيها.- يمكن مشاهدة أثر القلق بشكل عملي في تقليص حجم الدماغ.- القلق يؤثر سلباً على كل وظائف المخ.
Some major take-aways, along with my questions and ruminations:Attention:Emotional arousal helps the brain learn.
It’s those who have been abused at random so much that they feel they have no control over their environment.Our stress responses are designed to solve a problem in a few minutes, not long term (ie-the saber tooth tiger either ate you or you got away.) I don’t know if I believe this, what about drought?One of the greatest predictors of student success in school is the stability of the home life.Gottman and Shapiro studied marriages and found that when the adults had better coping skills and were more stable, the kids physiologically changed.Sorry for the note form on this review.
The content, when you can get to it, is interesting. But I find his writing style incredibly annoying -- full of anecdotes that don't really have a very tight connection to the content of the chapter. Then, midway thru the book, you learn that he finds that 10-minute chunks interspersed with anecdotes helps students pay attention in lecture. I totally accept that for an oral presentation. But in a written text, it's really annoying. I'm used to reading nonfiction that doesn't seem to be talking down to me like I'm 17.
I think what really makes this book stand out is that it tries to incorporate ways to adapt to how your brain thinks - such as getting more exercise in (treadmill while typing, anyone?) or encouraging children to take music lessons (note: this is different than Baby Mozart, in that children do better when LEARNING to play an instrument, not just listening to Mozart).Medina has a great writing style; it's incredibly informative but not too heavy-laden with psychology and biology language to make the common person stop in frustration.I really enjoyed Brain Rules and would recommend to others who love to learn more about how their brain works and how to adapt to its idiosyncrasies.
We participated in a research study led by this author last year, so I was curious to read this book. John Medina was an engaging and thought-provoking speaker, and this is an engaging and thought-provoking. It took a while to read because I had to stop and think after each section. It was relevant to teaching in many ways, but also to life in general.
It does confirm for me that I did a lot of things right as a parent, but I would have benefited as a mom from knowing things now clearly related by John Medina on when an infant is learning what much more precisely than I knew from observation and experience alone.
the information in this book is priceless for any parent and any person who intends to live life healthily, influence people positively and make a difference in the world.
It should be read by anyone in psychology, psychiatry, infant and child development, parenting, and healthy living at any age/stage of life.
The author, a lecturer, researcher, and molecular biologist, lists twelve major principles that help explain how the brain works: though processes are improved by physical exercise, we pay attention to evolutionarily important things like sex and danger, we need sleep to cogitate properly, repetition is crucial to long-term memory, we learn more through a variety of sensory inputs, gender influences how our brain process certain interactions, and so on.
Finally finished “Brain Rules” by John Medina.
Fascinating how simple habits can boost our brain power.
Seemingly passive and low impact activities like exercise and sleeping enhance our thinking ability (we’ve all heard this before, but the author provides compelling explanations as to why this is the case).There’s also an interesting discussion on multitasking (apparently it’s true you can do two things at once, just not as well as if you weren’t trying to multitask).A well written and engaging book.
I recommend it to everyone from artists to business owners since it reveals some little known facts on how to amplify your productivity and sense of well-being.
I was reading an excellent, but all-encompassing book by Fernette and Brock Eide, 'The Mislabeled Child,' at the same time (still on that one) as 'Brain Rules,' and enjoyed having something a bit less weighty that still made me rethink how kids learn.
However, 'extra cognitive processing...helps the learner to integrate...new material with prior information.' I loved the way Medina encapsulates this concept: 'We know that information is remembered best when it is elaborate, meaningful, and contextual.' My reading of 'Brain Rules' was certainly enhanced by going to Medina's website and watching the short slide shows and videos that supplemented his text (material also available on a CD that accompanies the book).
È dunque importante sapere che ogni dieci minuti bisogna lanciare all’uditorio un ‘amo’, per esempio un aneddoto, che susciti emozioni come il riso, l'incredulità o la paura”.Questo è solo un esempio delle tante cose interessanti citate in questo libro che tratta del cervello e del suo funzionamento.Si sanno ancora poche cose del cervello, ma negli ultimi anni sono state fatte molte scoperte interessanti, tra le quali il fatto che i neuroni possono continuare a formarsi anche in età avanzata se adeguatamente stimolati.
The book is organized around 12 principles that Medina feels are necessary to a healthy brain (due to what Medina sees as evolutionary factors).
The first principle is that physical exercise helps keep our brains active as well.
The second principle is that our brains evolved to survive our environment and we have thousands of years of outdoor living to overcome to deal with the past hundred years of technology.
The third principle is that each of our brains are uniquely wired.
Exploration is how we as a species evolved and how our brain develops from infancy to adulthood.
Author and molecular biologist, John Medina, does a great job capturing the reader with brain research, of all things.
Chapters are not overly long; each reading objective is clearly stated, and he reviews the salient items at the end of each chapter, with three or four bulleted items.
To help you understand and remember complex ideas, he shares anecdotes and narratives from his own life, as well as unusual stories from scientific research.
Additionally, readers will develop a deeper understanding of what the brain 'likes' in terms of maintaining attention, as well as recalling information.
Highly recommended to teachers, high school age students, and parents.
A solid attempt at making a practical (useful) book on how the brain works, aimed at everyday people.
His technique is very much to begin with an anecdote that makes the section real, but I tired of them by midway through the book.
And it often seems that the critical parts of his suggestions remain untested and unproven in science.But its flaws don't prevent it from being worth reading.
I'm trying to get my boy to focus using the techniques I read here, and I'm hoping I see some small improvements after only two days.
إن كنت تبحث عن كتاب بسيط وجميل ويتحدث عن كيفية عمل الدماغفهذا هو الكتاب الأمثل لذلكبالنسبة لي فقد استمتعت للنسخة الصوتية منهوأسلوب المؤلف وصوته يشدان الإنتباه بشكل جميل جدا
3.5John Medina explains 12 principles that involve the brain or thoughts that can help you in life. The copy I checked out from the library contained a dvd that gave an overview of the book that explained all of Medina's main points.This book is worth reading and its ideas are worth incorporating into your life.Watch this video to see if you might be interested in reading this book:Brain RulesFrom the book: “If you wanted to create an education environment that was directly opposed to what the b
3.5John Medina explains 12 principles that involve the brain or thoughts that can help you in life.
The copy I checked out from the library contained a dvd that gave an overview of the book that explained all of Medina's main points.This book is worth reading and its ideas are worth incorporating into your life.Watch this video to see if you might be interested in reading this book:Brain RulesFrom the book:
“If you wanted to create an education environment that was directly opposed to what the brain was good at doing, you probably would design something like a classroom.
If you wanted to create a business environment that was directly opposed to what the brain was good at doing, you probably would design something like a cubicle.
I read this for a cognitive learning group at work, kind of a self-help meets neuroscience attempt. Some of it was interesting, some of it was stuff most people 'know' but the scientific explanations solidified it, and some seemed a little bit of a stretch.
The book lays out the core aspects of cognitive science in layman terms and is a fluid and entertaining read.
The author keeps it clear from time to time what is established and what is experimental or state of the art in terms of our understanding of cognition.
The chapters are very well organized, each focusing on a particular aspect of personal development and life choices.
I learned a lot although I already had good understanding of chapters around memory but John's style of writing leads a sticky factor.
A must read book for all growth mindset folks regardless of one's prior understanding and knowledge of the subject.
Quite enjoyed this book :)I found the book relaxing and fun to read. Some research results was quite interesting especially the last 3 chapters about music, gender and the adventurous nature of humans, otherwise some stuff was repeated for me but definitely was a fun recap.
This was a pretty interesting book. Thanks to the spouse for letting me regurgitate it back to him every night. It's the kind of book you must talk about with others. And often! You lucky people! A lot of reference to the study of injured brains were found in it, so my main take away was this - wear a bike helmet. Every single time.
This book was recommended to my partner while on a training course. It's an easy read and takes you through 12 areas of your brain and you will come out the other end, better equipped to use your brain more effectively. In work, we could all do with an update on how to make ourselves a little better and use our brain power more efficiently and this book certainly goes some way to "upgrade" our thinking.
Книга скорее НЕ понравилась :( На первый взгляд это даже странно: солидный (в научном смысле) автор; изложение "тонких материй" (о работе нашего мозга и нашей психики)довольно лёгкое и занимательное; кроме научных фактов и теоретических выкладок вроде бы присутствуют и практические советы, но...
Хоть автор и позиционируется как "современный учёный", лично для меня бОльшая часть информации в книге была давно знакомой, читать было скучно :(В-третьих, книга НЕ практична.
Хотя, на мой взгляд, для научно-популярной книги она написана несколько тяжеловато (или это неуклюжесть перевода).
But the author's choice, to relay a deeply disturbing explanation about how animals are tortured for the sake of gluttony, tainted the book for me to the point where I'm going to need to give it a two.
The practice of making foie gras is a socially condoned torture for no reason other than the fact that a force-fed goose's liver tastes rich -- how insane that it even happens, that no one has put a stop to it.
I wanted to read a book that would help me discover how and why our brains learn different ways.
I didn’t want to read a book that was packed with scientific details that were hard to understand.
John Medina combined the scientific details with common experiences and stories to create a revealing book that was enjoyable to read.
Most of the brain rules that were highlighted in the book were common knowledge, but understanding why and how, make this an interesting book to read.
Each chapter ends with ideas that will help you master that brain rule.
However, when it comes to schools and education, research finds it difficult to cut through the bonds of tradition.In his bestselling book Brain Rules, molecular biologist John Medina suggests that the typical five-period day in high school might be radically restructured if we were to consider how the brain actually works.Medina writes, "In the school of the future, lessons are divided into 25-minute modules, cyclically repreated throughout the day.
Subject A is taught for 25 minutes, constituting the first exposure.
Nintey minutes later, the 25-minute content of Subject A is repeated, and then a third time."In Medina's mind, grade levels become less important.
The malleability of the brain, its connection with the body, and its amazing powers of regeneration and lifelong ability to change are overall pretty good news for a world that has kind of let itself slide into a damaging passivity and learned helplessness.
I guess it worked, because I read this whole thing in bed through a really miserable sickness while my friends were partying their asses off.
Thanks to author John Medina for taking up such a risk to research and explain the complex thing, according to human brains, of "how brain works" to the level that human brain can understand easily.
The author, in his book explains 12 things about how our brains functions.
So if you see/learn something shocking, your brain tries to process too much at once, using too large a percentage of your brain, and the brain has to shut off because it doesn't have enough energy to do that much processing!
In the meantime, he has advice for living better lives based on what we do know about how our brains work.
Most of them are very elementary (e.g., exercise, get enough rest), but I found it fascinating to learn how neurology supports those common-sense bits of advice.
Good Book. Helped to understand how human brain functions and how it get affected by the activities we do in our daily lives., such as sufficient amount of sleep and exercise helps healthy brain functioning, where as excessive stress affects the brain functionality in a negative way. I felt interested while getting to know about brain's memory system which has four stages of processing, viz., Encoding, Storing, Retrieving and Forgetting. To make something to be in long-term memory, we need to memorise that often in regular intervals. I enjoyed listening to this book, I would recommend this. Thanks.
