https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123613.Radigan
Good guy, minding his own business, is set upon by an outrageous number of the worst and fastest gunmen out there.
The heroine, unbelievably beautiful, first irks the hero and then becomes indispensable as the smartest most loyal woman around.
Surprise, the hero loves the heroine.
I usually like these books, for just that reason.
The good guy will always win.
The hero marries the heroine, and they live happily ever after.
Unfortunately, this book had more swearing than his other book’s I’ve read, and the heroine’s form was focused on way too much.
I would recommend several of his other books instead.
Radigan has spent four years establishing a ranch and no one no matter what kind of papers is going to drive him off the land. Strong female characters but then L'Amour's women walk beside their men not before or behind.Lots of snow scenes. Best read with a warm blanket.
Radigan is a story about a cattle rancher, Tom Radigan who has a ranch in new mexico and raises about 500 cattle.
I liked this book for many reasons but the top one has to be the main character, Tom Radigan.
He really made the story what it is and he is by far, in my opinion, one of the best characters Louis L'Amour has come up with.
I would still recommend the book to western fans and anyone really.
I think Louis L'Amour always makes a great book.
Louis L’Amour- Radigan (Bantam Books 1969) 3.75 StarsAfter working through harsh conditions to build his ranch, Tom Radigan now finds himself in danger of losing what he has fought so hard to build.
It also would have been nice for the falling in love bit to be left out as this seems to be a bit of a redundant theme in westerns, leaving it out would have set it apart from other westerns, but again I won’t hold it against Louis L’Amour.
As many of my main readers know I love the western setting and that time period so as you can guess I loved this part of the book.I recommend Radigan to western readers and Louis L’Amour fans.
I'm getting a feel for L'Amour's style, and this one is subtly different from the previous two I've read.
It's more involved, and the author spends more time in the head of his protagonist.
Louis has a deeper relationship with this character.Slightly more time is spent indoors and in town here.
In L'Amour's hands, it's a full-featured commentary on what it is like to live in a place where law exists often only in the mind, and where self-reliance is a virtue that civilized people simply cannot understand in full.
3.5 starsL'Amour isn't going to blow anyone away with elegant prose.
There were also times that the narrative randomly seems to jump to other characters suddenly, sometimes for no more than a paragraph or two, which was occasionally disorienting.
I didn't hate the ending, but it left me wanting more in terms of validation for the stories characters.
And yet, L'Amour is undeniably a talented storyteller.
It's like turning on an old black and white Western that you've seen once before but a long time ago and don't remember well, yet you know at once how it will end.
My best friend Hannah claims that many western novels are "romance books for men." This is perhaps the first or second western I have ever read, so I'm not sure if my friend's claim has support in its scope, however, there was some serious male-dominating characteristics of Radigan that I found unimpressive and eye-roll worthy.
Both female characters in this book loved Radigan, therefore in the end, he got to have his pick.
Place a complex main character, flaws and all, in the middle of the action and the story is made.
You have to approach this book knowing it's going to be somewhat old fashioned in it's portrayal of how the West was won.
Square jawed, white, upright, brave, hardy, handsome - that's just the hero's horse.
The hero himself, Radigan, is all this times ten.
It all seems so simple as you read it, while you know that it's L'Amour's skill as a writer and storyteller that makes it seem this way.
But then that's what the best writers create and, in this context, Radigan can almost be termed as a work of art.
The book “Radigan” by Louis L’Amour is an awesome read for anybody that enjoys westerns and adventure.
Being that New Mexico is mostly a desert, it is pretty difficult to raise 500 cattle.
Then along comes a cattle outfit from texas claiming that they have rights to Tom’s land.
One little quirk that I have noticed in many of the L’Amour books that i have read is that he likes to switch the point of view from which he is writing between characters.
That is one thing that I don't like about this book, and many other Louis L’Amour books.
Easy read. Great escape. I love L’amour because his novels take me to a time and place which capture my imagination. His characters are gritty and he always finds a way to put them in just enough jeopardy to keep the pages turning. I also love that I can find his books for $1 at Printers Row, they fit in the front pocket of my work bag, and I can be on the CTA train and suddenly be whisked away to the wilderness, mountains, snow, rivers, wild terrain and adventure of the Western frontier.
There is something special about the simplicity and truth of the frontier life which Louis L'Amour captures perfectly. I have only recently begun to read his Western novels and I am thoroughly enjoying the experience.If you want to escape from the hustle and bustle of the daily grind give this genre, this novel and especially this writer a try.
I'm a big fan of L'Amour after getting hooked by Lonesome Gods. I'd have to say Tom Radigan is one of my favorite L'Amour characters. L'Amour has created a perfect antagonist in Angelina. Radigan is about A land war over grazing grounds at the onset of winter, two men against an entire group of gunslinging cattleman.
Good book and a fast interesting read. Enjoyed it a lot.
Good Book!This story was realistic, interesting, well written and edited. It had me spellbound all the way through. Well looking at who the is what would one expect?
My grandfather had hundreds of Louis L'Amour books on his bookshelf - right next to my grandmother's Barbara Cartland books. So I enjoyed reading this, especially because it made me think of him!
Another L'Amour classic. Everything about this book screams the Old West. From the barren mountains to the dusty roads of Western towns. All, as s only L'amour can describe it .
Radigan was an introspective man who knew what he was doing and what he wanted; it made for good reading.
I know I've said this before but I love Louis L'Amour books.... his main characters are always men of honor and respect... they always put up a great fight against injustice.... with their guns or boxing it out... never any bad language... good ole fashion western...
Radigan by Louis L'Amour, is about Tom Radigan and how Angelina Foley was trying to take over his land with a spanish grant and her gunmen.
Angelina Foley was going to have her gunmen help her out if Tom Radigan wasn’t going to let her take over his ranch.
Some connections to this book because I always like to see when people stand up for themselves when people are trying to take advantage of them like when Tom was standing up for himself saying you aren't going to take this ranch that I’ve worked for.
"Radigan" is the 66th Louis L'Amour book I've read, my number one author if you count by number of books read but only number 6 if you count by the number of pages read.
This is another fairly average length L'Amour paperback novel, coming in at 154 pages.
Obviously, you can tell I like this author and I read his novels periodically but this time I chose to read one because they serve as great "comfort" reads for me.
Along comes Angelina Foley with an outfit of gunfighters, 3000 head of cattle and what she claims is a deed to Radigan's land.
The one name titles of so many books involve odd monikers of reluctant heroes, hard men, and fast draws...and the same three or four plots replicated again and again like house designs in a subdivision.My dad loves all his books and I read over a hundred while staving off the night terrors when growing up.It is a strange fact about the old west, Indians, and the genocidal take over of the land now called the United States that fiction writing about them is often taken for truth (see Ward Churchill's Fantasies of the Master Race).
Great read!I forgot just how entertaining Louis L'Amour's books are. This is the first one I have picked up in about 25 years after reading the whole series a long time ago.
Tom Radigan and his hired hand, John Child, run a secluded ranch in the high country of northeast New Mexico territory when another ranch outfit and shady characters led by a Texas beauty named Angelina Foley show up with a Spanish grant and claim ownership of Radigan's land.
Being from Texas Angelina Foley and her crew are up to no good and the claim she owns is fraudulent but that doesn't stop her from forcing a cattle war as winter bears down in the mountains.
Like all of the L'Amour books this one follows a familiar plot line but this is one of the better ones (they've all been good though).
And as with all Louis L'Amour books, I learned quite a bit about how to handle horses, and how to live off the land.
Not that I think I could actually do any of these things based on what I have read in a western pulp novel, but I think if you had all of L'Amour's books with you in the wilderness you could manage pretty well for a while.Anyway.
The bit about the women all being in love with Radigan got a bit tiresome at a certain point, but that is how most westerns work, isn't it?
Quite a bit actually.
Our hero Radigan has spent years figuring out a way to work a tough patch of land into a successful ranch, so when a pretty woman and her band of thugs try to force him out, he's not going to cooperate.
Radigan's claim is unassailable, but the law usually sides with the victor in the old west.
Just so in this case, where the local lawman is content to step back and see how Radigan does.He's joined by a faithful, half-indian friend and later joined by that man's daughter.
This is only the second book, and the first of his Westerns, that I have read but I've been impressed so far.Radigan is an intelligent, patient, but yet strong character who withstands an attempt to run him off of his ranch.
He, his one ranch hand, and the ranch hand's daughter contend with about 30 opponents with grace and poise.My only complaint about the book is that everything gets wrapped up very suddenly towards the end - almost as if the story grew tiresome to the author.
I just felt the ending was rushed in a way that the rest of the story was not.
A great quick read from a writer that knows his wilderness. While following along with the story you accidently learn how to track in the snow...and a few other tricks that could save you if you were hunted by a gunman. I like the story from start to finish. I did notice a couple of places where 1958 values were out of date now, when it came to women. But hey, this was to have taken place around 1870 or so.....times have changed. Great action, and a somewhat surprise ending. I'll be reading more by L'Amour now.
The first L'Amour book I've read and it was what I was expecting and wanting. A breezy, action-oriented Western. This is ideal nightstand or back-of-the-toilet reading since it requires little brain power and is easy to pick back up. It is unsurprisingly a bit sexist and features some unintentionally funny spots of bad writing as both of the significant female characters are described to have developed the hots for Radigan. The book's biggest fault is its strangely abrupt ending, but otherwise I enjoyed it and will probably read some more of L'Amour. Feel free to make recommendations.
Classic L'Amour tale. Man has land that he has staked a claim too. Bad guys from outta town want for nefarious reason. Guns and fist go a'flying. Oh ya and there's a beautiful girl that falls in love after seeing what a man he is for defending his land.Not one of my favorite L'amour books. The story line got a little discombobulated at the end.However, good shoot em up easy summer read. I think L'amour with be on my reading list every summer.
Seriously?? He told you the ending before the start of the second chapter. And talk about stereotypical.... Stern, honest, hardworking man who is put upon by some bad people. Good guy wins and gets the girl in the end and everybody is happy. Not to mention L'Amour's terrible writing. Did the guy not have an editor? Fortunately there were no grammatical mistakes that I noticed, but the flow was inconsistent at best.
