https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50746.The_Rover
It was not maddeningly or achingly good, but as a solid tale it stands quite well.
You might say, even in the choppy prevailing conditions, it had sea legs.It wouldn't be my recommendation for someone new to Conrad (for them there's always The Secret Agent or Lord Jim), but if you're an avid follower or even anything short of admirer, this book isn't a bad choice.
There's no point in it: it's a good one but not exceptional.
If you've got other choices and you don't feel strongly about Conrad, leave this one for later.
But throughout, THE ROVER reminds me of the sort of book N.C. Wyeth illustrated.
Rather, the tone of wistful self-review, through the mind of the rover, as this character is called, makes this book a stylistic wonder.
THE ROVER refers to the atrocities so much of Conrad's fiction deals with, it differs from most of his work in that very little of it involves tortured logic.
Most if Conrad's heroes experience self-doubt to the point that the reader is wondering what he or she should thin of those heroes.
In Peyrol, Conrad leaves the self-doubt to a couple of the lesser characters.
A pirate and gunner who was rooted up and transplanted to the sea from his South France village, he comes back an old man and rents a room from a very strange trio - an unreconstructed French Revolution Patriot who very likely killed the parents of Arlette and scooped her up as bounty, and the owner of the farmhouse, Catherine, Arlette's aunt.All is well until a stranger comes to town and girl (Arlette) meets boy (French Lieutenant Real).
The French Lieutenant's woman (sorry...) makes this mission hard to carry out unless someone with nothing to lose sees what is happening.Peyrol is a master of the sea and even more of a master at psychology.
Joseph Conrad's knowledge of the sea and international events in the 18th and 19th century are used to great effect in his last novel. Peyrol is a French master gunner seeking retirement and solitude in the coastal hills of a farmhouse/Inn in the south of France. The French Revolution has citizens spying on citizens and although old Peyrol tries to distance himself from political events he eventually finds no option but to carry out one last heroic act of patriotism for his country. Another classic from Joseph Conrad.
This is much more accessible than many of Conrad's novels. The reader is engaged from the outset and there is no wondering who the characters are, and no confusing unreliable narrator stuff. It is a simple story told by a master of psychology, a wizard with language and a man with profound sympathy for the human condition. Simply, Conrad is one of our greatest writers.
The Rover was Conrad's last book and probably one of his more accessible stories. A little background on the French Revolution comes in handy to know what a 'sans cullotte' and a 'ci-devant' are since the terms appear regularly throughout the story. Otherwise, a great novel with some plot twists, romance, mystery and a satisfying ending (depending how you look at it, I suppose).
I enjoyed Conrad's writing style, along with the nautical theme of the book. A bit ponderous at times, but it kept me coming back to see what would happen next. A very interesting ending as well!
Really enjoyed this. Inspiring story of an old man written at the end of Conrad's life. Very different prose style to his major works.
A wise book. A powerful book. Swift as the wind. Deep as the sea. Conrad at it's best.
It is sort of a psychological thriller mashup of Robert Louis Stevenson, Alexandre Dumas and yes, Joseph Conrad.
Nun, nicht das beste Buch von Joseph Conrad, dennoch habe ich "The Rover" in der deutschen Fassung ("Der Freibeuter") in der Übersetzung von G.
Vor ein paar Wochen brachte es mir jemand aus einem öffentlichen Bücherregal in dieser Gegend mit.
Vielleicht war es nicht die beste Idee Conrads, das Geschehen in "Der Freibeuter" in eine Zeit zu setzen, in der er nicht (mehr) Zeitzeuge war.
Auf eine unterschwellige Weise leidet die Glaubwürdigkeit der Charaktere, finde ich ...
Eine Inhaltsangabe will ich hier nicht liefern, dazu habe ich einfach keine Lust.
Ich empfehle aber einen französischen Bordeaux oder einen britischen Single Malt zur Lektüre.
Das würde passen.
Tee nicht.
Soon Peyrol is caught up in intrigues involving a British ship patrolling the French coast (Britain was still at war with France then), a plan by a duty-bound Lieutenant to dupe the British with forged papers, and a bloodthirsty former Revolutionary called Scevola who is murderously jealous of the Lieutenant’s growing attachment to Arlette, the half-crazed orphan of a Royalist family whom Scevola had put to death.Finally Peyrol heroically sets off to take on the British himself, deliberately throwing away his life so that the forged papers will fall in British hands, and thereby dupe them.
Not his greatest work but it’s Conrad so it’s still a great read.
Peyrol, the main protagonist, is far more convincing a character than the range of more one dimensional folk set around him.
As it’s mainly set on a peninsula it was an ideal book to take with me to read on the Llŷn Peninsula (although the bit I was in had not quite got the same views of sea on three sides, but it was Portmeirion which made book’s title even more appropriate as Prisoner fans might appreciate).
This was a little hard to follow at times. I needed an atlas to figure out where things were happening, & sometimes it was stories about things that happened in the past. The other book needed (or website) was translation from French to English, since this story took place in France it has a lot of phrases I didn't know. It starts out not long after the French Revolution, deals with the after effects. It reminds me of what I've heard about the revolution in Russia.
Not as psychological as his earlier classics, which makes for a simpler, but very enjoyable read. Peyrol is a magnificent creation, conflicted as all Conrad's protagonists are, who is unable to escape his past.

Really odd rhythm of plot unfurling.
To call it a lesser work would be, in my opinion, kind.
