https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/561311.Gather_Darkness_
Have you wondered where George Lucas got the idea for that light sabre?
They choose witchcraft as their bogeyman and persecute witches unmercifully--in spite of the fact that witchcraft is virtually non-existent, practiced by a few wizened female herb doctors accompanied by their pet cats.As often happens, what we choose to fear and persecute--however trivial it may be at the start--gains in significance and power over us.
A new witchcraft arises, with what look to be real magical powers, and its witches possess extraordinarily helpful familiars--not cats, but monkey things with uncannily human faces.This is classic science fiction, recommended to everyone who loves the genre.
5.0 stars. Leiber's best novel and a great read. Set in a postapocalyptic future Earth, the "Hierarchy of the Great God" controls all technology (and the people) with a iron fist. The main character, a young priest named Brother Armon Jarles, speaks out against the ruling class and finds an underground movement with sophisticated technology of its own. THEN THE BATTLE IS ON. A great read. Highly recommended.
It's never clear, as the story progresses, how nihilistic or devout the priests and Witches are.
This dystopia is a completely cynical fabrication of medieval church structure and iron-fisted scientific control, with the priests theoretically are entirely two-faced about it, preaching to the peasantry while institutionally nihilistic and pragmatic.
But hints indicate that they, and by equal token the Witches, have begun to believe their own fabrications and imagery.
(hide spoiler)] Getting to the bottom of any person's core belief is a journey containing several reversals.The story is touched through with small baroque details that add so much.
Fritz Leiber was so good at so many genres.
He wrote two of my favorite horror novels, Conjure Wife and Our Lady Of Darkness.
Gather Darkness is in the realm of science fiction and, while many state that it is his greatest novel, I find it a bit weak.
Witches, wayward priests, and satanic familiars all make a visit to these pages and are all explained in natural terms; a la science fiction.
It is all quite enjoyable and there is some of Leiber's best prose in this work.
But I guess I like my fantasies, and science fiction, a bit more straight-laced.
Leiber's Classic Dystopia of Religion Versus Witchcraft"Gather, Darkness" was one of two dystopian novels written by Fritz Leiber (The other was "A Specter Is Haunting Texas".).
It is also one of the best conceived, best written novels of a dismal future for humanity.
Three hundred years after a nuclear holocaust, humanity is ruled by a secretive religious brotherhood, the Hierarchy of the Great God, which uses science as the supernatural means of ensuring its control over an impoverished, predominantly illiterate population.
A struggle that is meant to gather darkness against the Hierarchy's grip on power.
Using science to produce false "miracles" the Hierarchy brainwashes the populace into obedience--the more clever of the 'commoners' are encouraged to join the priesthood.So, when an group of revolutionaries begins to overthrow the tyrants, the rebels disguise themselves as "witches" and use their science to create miraculous effects ascribed to "Sathanas".It is an oddly compelling book and the premise was unusual for the 1940's (several writer have used similar ideas since them).
The idea of the witches having 'familiars'---basically cloned symbiotes--was a nice touch.But the plot holes and rushed ending make it only an okay book.
Definitely worth reading once, hoeever.
Fritz Leiber published Conjure Wife in 1943.
It remains a classic American tale of modern witchcraft, still as effective any Val Lewton production for RKO pictures.
Apparently Leiber was not ready to leave the witchcraft theme behind, because that same year he took it into a far future sf tale, Gather Darkness.
But initiation into the priesthood could hardly go the way acolytes might expect.
Of course the priests know that whoever is pulling off these feats of witchcraft have to be using technology the same way the priests use it themselves.
Both Conjure Wife and The Big Time far surpass it.
Fritz Leiber (1910-1992) was an American writer of horror, fantasy, and science fiction.
He was also a poet, an actor, a chess expert, and a cat lover.
This story was first published in "Astounding Science Fiction" in 1943.
Then, it was published as a book in 1950.
I found it interesting and certainly a fast read, but not the best Leiber.
It's a dystopian novel ( a type of novel much more common in our enlightened Twenty-first Century) about a theocracy running the world--and the Revolution that brings it down.
And there is a cat in the story--a black cat named Grimalkin who accompanies an old witch...
This book has a fantastic premise: centuries ago, after a cataclysmic war that ended the Golden Atomic Age, a group of scientists enshrined their knowledge within a new religion intended to guide humanity through the new dark age.
As above, so below.I also love that this book starts on page 1 with "main character" Jarles deciding mid-service that he is fed up with the lies of the Hierarchy and launching into a fiery denouncement of the regime.
Over and over, the narrative lurches forward and then halts for long stretches, and the book is only like 200 pages long!
In it's favor: this book is short, imaginative and oddly compelling.The downside: Like many sci fi writers of the 1950s, Fritz Leiber has a limited view of the value of women in society.
Actually, there's a lot about the structure of this novel that is eye-rollingly silly."Gather, Darkness!" is a sci fi novel about a dictatorial regime of atheists who keep the common people oppressed, modeling their feudal society on the Dark Ages.
But the morality and the political overtones of this book are a bit too simple to deserve much deep thought.It's better as candy than as philosophy.

-El miedo es un arma de dominio. Y lo desconocido es lo que más asusta-.Género. Ciencia-Ficción.Lo que nos cuenta. En el futuro, y para no volver al estado de caos que sufrió la civilización después de la última guerra, los hombres de ciencia crearon una religión sostenida por los “milagros” de su conocimiento técnico. Pero la religión degeneró hacia un gobierno fundamentalista tiránico, al que sólo unos pocos tratan de oponerse, aunque con sus mismas armas.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
I actually translated this one into German - uncredited!

The ruling class lives in luxury and comfort - definitely the 'have-nots' versus the 'haves'.An opponent arises, and is categorized as 'witchcraft' and from Satan.
Make no mistake, there is nothing spiritual about either the state religion, or the satanic opponents.
The state wants to maintain power, the followers of Satan want to free the people from that power and placed under their own.
Both the state religion and the opponents think they know what is best for the people.
http://nhw.livejournal.com/119652.html[return][return]This is a rollicking Golden Age of Science Fiction story (which I got electronically from FictionWise); the earth is dominated by a hierarchical religion which actually uses advanced science to perform what appear to be miracles; the subversive opposition organises as witches and warlocks.
aka Revolt in 2100 in which a religious dictatorship is overthrown by a few good men and women, and Sixth Column in which a sinister Asian invasion of the USA is overthrown by a resistance movement disguised as a religion, both published a few years earlier.[return][return]Leiber's book is much more fun than I remember the Heinleins as being (it's twenty years since I read them, of course).
Le tout se passe à une fictive époque du futur, après l'Âge D'Or, où la religion du Grand Dieu est dominée par les différents cercles du pouvoir.
Comme de fait, les insoumis, genre de sorcières et sorciers satanistes, s'opposent à l'hégémonie du nouveau clergé.
Ça rebondit de tout bord tout côté, avec ou sans cohésion (je me le demande encore) où les ficelles de l'intrigue deviennent les cordeaux de l'ennui.Vraiment pas ma tasse de thé ce roman d'anticipation.
Si ma critique n'est pas très inspirée, c,est sans doute parce que ce roman écrit en 1943 ne l'est pas (inspirant).

A classic book that pits science masquerading as religion against science in service to freedom. It's a classic "What if?" look at the extremes to which religion ill-used can take humans and a culture. A great adventure story with fantasy, mystery, science and jeopardy galore. For the younger crowd, this is how to write a great story with great adventure. Tom.
In Fritz Leiber's Gather, Darkness! (1950) the establishment's superscience masquerades as Religion leading the rebels to disguise their own superscience as witchcraft.
Their weapons were two endless blades of violet incandescence, but their tactics were those of sabers- feint, cut, parry, swift riposte.
Fending off the bean of the wrath rod that slipped from Deth's fingers, the Black Man hurried forward and switched off both weapons.”The Takeaway:Eminently enjoyable.
Experience has taught me how close hate is to love.”“After all, to the truly skeptical mind, diabolic forces are just as reasonable building blocks for the cosmos as mindless electrons.
Suppose Sercival had had access to avenues of evidence which are denied most men?
No reason why diabolic forces shouldn't sometimes make use of mummery to achieve their ends.”
At the top sits the Apex Council, with tiers of priests and deacons below them they rule the peasants in a return to Middle Ages-culture.
The twist here is that advanced technology still exists: known solely to the ruling priest class, they perform "miracles" to show the power of The Great God and keep the ignorant serfs in check.
And they are using it to wage holy war on Apex Council and their "Great God" in the name of Sathanas, Lord of Evil.A fascinating premise, and Leiber mines the technological possibilities for all their worth.
Still, a fascinating entry in early sci-fi literature.
Mira que le tengo cariño a esta colección de Bruguera, pero es indecente el número de errores tipográficos y de edición que se comenten.
Eso unido a que la traducción no es para tirar cohetes pues le resta mucho valor a un libro que de por sí es precedente de muchas cosas que vinieron luego.
Especialmente interesante es lo que hoy llaman algunos worlbuilding y que no es más que eso, la forma que tiene el autor de crear ante nuestros ojos un mundo creíble en todos sus detalles.
En definitiva sin una edición tan deficiente la lectura se enriquecería.
No he conseguido sintonizar en ningún momento con esta historia. El tema parecía interesante (una sociedad distópica en la que la ciencia ha sido ocultada al público disfrazada de religión) pero con tantos rayos, campos de fuerza y personajes que no me decían nada, se me ha hecho muy aburrida.
No ha envejecido mal, aunque la resolución del argumento chirría un poco (al menos en la actualizad).Aparte de eso, termina siendo un poco floja por el tipo de lucha y cómo se lleva a cabo. Solo merece la pena leerla porque es un clásico, nada más. Y porque es corta.
The first time I read this book, I was blown away by how perfectly it encapsulated what I had learned being raised in Catholicism. It helped me realize that what I had come to suspect was not only plausible, but known to others. Today, it is more meaningful than ever.
A holy war between priests and witches isn't what it seems on either side. Full of strong and slightly mysterious characters and visual writing.
A great read, my only criticism is that I'd have liked a little more length and detail- the novel gets into a complex situation very quickly, I'd have liked a little more background and history.
A daring conflict of ideologies, Gather, Darkness! has a light-heartedness and endearing cast of characters that makes it a fun read despite its depth of content.
Bastante flojete. En ningún momento te termina de enganchar. Tampoco aporta nada reseñable.Uno de esos libros que te hace replantear si lo vas a terminar de leer
