https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148467.Rhinoceros_Success
Some snobby readers might find the simplicity of this book to be below them. Not I. It is literally one of the most influential books of my life. I love analogies to life, and that is all this author does, but with animals to people. Amazing concepts to life if you will just pay attention.The life of a rhinocerous is a happy and exciting one.
But it doesn't say this, it says that you should be a rhinoceros (literally) and you will be successful.
Keeping a family together and happy takes a rhino."It is written in a jovial and simple way and peppered with 'comedy'..."Do you know how to make a rhinoceros float?
Rhinoceros success comes from being a rhinoceros ALL the time."I know, right?
But the real take home message comes on page 51, "You don't need to read 'Rhinoceros Success' or any other book to live your life successfully.
Every answer is in there."That's right, even the author doesn't think you should read this book.
"Rhinoceros Success" gives tips and encouragement to motivate the readers to get up and get moving.
We have to charge forward like a rhino might and work hard to get where/what we want.
Alexander does encourage his readers to try God and to read the Bible (in secret if they need to), but stops short of fully endorsing a life surrendered to following Christ and what that might look like for a rhino.
He does include some scripture quotations in "Rhinoceros Success", but again, this booked lacked the spiritually deep content that would have made it great.
If you read the whole thing and remain hung up on that, well, OK, but I think you are missing the point and are failing to profit from something worthwhile.My main caveat was the weak Christian message.
A little more testosterone in Christian evangelism could certainly profit the world.Funny how many of my "heroes" could easily be classed as "Rhinos."I'm curious to see how much of it sticks with me and how much is forgotten.
Worth the read, for sure, and given its length, I'm sure I'll reread it.
This book simultaneously energized and terrified me!
On the other hand, there were enough self-serving and idol-building mantras mixed in with the "good stuff", that this book could be really dangerous to a young person who believes the world is their playground and everyone else should play by their rules.
I'm not sure if this summary makes sense, and I guess that's my problem with this book - it's difficult to make sense of - to distinguish the helpful from the destructive, the selfish from the generous and the Christian from the capitalist.
Rhinoceros Success is a nice, quick read for a bit of motivation and inspiration to pursue your dreams.
It's a simple book (occasionally, over simplistic) with a great message from an obviously passionate author.
Alexander does a nice job of uplifting you and cheering you on, but the book does not provide any deep, life-changing insight or in-depth information or explanations.
Alexander wants to encourage you and help you recognize that techniques and strategies are overrated.
The single most important thing you can do is simply begin doing something, anything to move toward your dreams; and if you push past enough obstacles, you'll eventually get there.
A good premise, poorly executed.It's fun, even silly, which is fine. In fact, that's all it has going for it really. But it has nearly zero depth. It's incredibly short, but still far too long. Rip out the copious fluff forcibly added to make it into a book and tone down the religiosity which adds nothing (and comes across, to be frank, more than a bit creepy) and this becomes a 5 to 10 page solid essay. I suspect the follow-on books add some depth, but after this... I'm just not going to waste my time.
This book!! All entrepreneurs MUST read this!! I’ll be returning every year to get fired up and charge full speed ahead at my goals and dreams. #rhinoup
I started this book beacuse Bear Grylls recommends it in his 'Survival guide for life', which book I extremely appreciated.
Maybe this is why I had high expectations to Rhinoceros Success.The book turned out to be a motivational book focusing too much on money.
The whole Rhinoceros metaphore throughout the book gets very weak sometimes.
This was not what I expected, and the qualiy of the book felt really bad, especially after reading Bear Grylls.If however you need a book which basically tells you to wake up early in the morning, stop making excuses and 'just do it !!!' than this is for you!
tomorrow morning, you could wake up as a full grown rhinoceros and * charge your way to success* use audacity to reach your goals* be happier than you've ever been before* make your life an exciting adventure* have the persistence and tenacity necessary for success* never worry again* succeed at the world's most profitable hobby* achieve more and have a better balance in the six major areas of your life: FINANCIAL, WORK, PHYSICAL, FAMILY, SOCIAL AND SPIRITUALScott Alexander has discovered the REAL secret of success: becoming a rhinoceros.
Rhinoceros Success by Scott Alexander4 starThis book fits into your own choice on the bingo board.It's is a book that help you charge head on into any obstacles that may be in your way.
I think that charging is a very clever way to explain how to succeed and that is what got me hooked on this book.I really enjoyed this book as it helped me to understand how to get through problems that would come my way.
When these setbacks arise I will remember The Rhinoceros Success and think that I need to get up and charge again.This book was great.I would recommend it to everyone as everyone has problems or setbacks in their lives.
I has not only stuck with me, but I've reread it a few more times and have since read the other Rhino books by Scott Alexander.
I can say that the ideas and way of being has changed the course of my life and today, I proudly call my self Shakil Rhino.
How powerful is this book?
Well let me put it this way.
I do not/ have not liked tattoos or piercings, during my scuba diving days, I almost came close to getting an ear pierced but didn't.
I am now seriously thinking of getting a tattoo.
Rhinoceros Success by Scott Alexander - 5 starsThis book was recommended to me by one of my students.  I was apprehensive at first because the premise sounded funny but once you understand "the way of the rhino" it makes perfect sense.  Quick read with tons of nuggets to use in your daily life.  The idea of getting out of your rut and charging at all aspects of your life is very motivating and awe-inspiring. Must read for those that need a change in their lives (and at some point we ALL need that).
You have one shot in this life! You have a choice each day that you have been blessed with to decide whether you will be a cow or a rhinoceros. This book will make you laugh, motivate you, challenge you, convict you, all at the same time. It is a quick read but a challenging read if you are honest with yourself and wanting to sieze the opportunities in life. There are those who go through life making and accepting excuses and then there are those who charge right through them and make things happen. This is a must read!
Very tongue-in-cheek type of book, which really drew me into the book more than a typical motivational book would have. The analogies sometimes make me laugh, and sometimes made me stop to think more deeply than I think I otherwise would have. I don't typically say this, but I think I'll be reading this book again in a few months to further cement some of its best concepts into my life.
Best quote, "Did you know that the Bible is the original 'how to be successful' manual? You don't need to read 'Rhinoceros Success' or any other book to learn to live your life successfully. All you really need is a copy of the Bible. Every answer is in there. Every success book is based on the Bible, only worded differently."
This book touches on areas addressed in the motivational books I've read. Be Enthusiastic. Create joy not Despair. It's a quick easy read especially for those long days or months where work is just that . . . work, overall enjoyable. Think I will keep it on my shelf for when I need a pick me up. It reads like talking to a happy friend.
I encourage those folks who don't read many books to check this one out. Very readible, large font and many pictures - you can do it and will be better for reading itIt took about 2 hours to read and contains some great material. In summary, it is about getting goals done and the benefits of optimism.
A very easy read, but very powerful message. I took this book out from the library, but I might go and by it so I can read it when I want a boost for my ego. Helps to re-shift your thinking about yourself and your point of view.
I read this book after seeing a Tatoo of Rhinoceros covering the shoulder of a friend, the kind of person you would never guess had one. When I asked him why he told me to read the book and see how it changed his life so I did and found it to be very uplifting, POSITIVELY!
This book has been a "Bible" to me for over 25 years. Simple, yet straight-forward, it gives a great philosophy for one to live by.
Very entertaining - not your usual "get rich quick" book. Slim and very easy to read.
Excellent motivational book even if it is a little silly! I always keep this book close by...
LOVE LOVE LOVE! LOVE LOVE LOVE! LOVE LOVE LOVE! LOVE LOVE LOVE! LOVE LOVE LOVE! LOVE LOVE LOVE! LOVE LOVE LOVE! LOVE LOVE LOVE!
A funny little book...my favorite line is probably "a rhinoceros doesn't mind inflation, think how easy it'll be to make a million dollars in twenty years!"
Shia LaBeouf's "Just Do It!" Video with Bible verses. Just kidding. Mostly.
This book is ok to continue reading daily or weekly for a lifetime.
A real easy read on how to create and enjoy a Succesful life.
I LOVE THIS BOOK AND HAVE READ IT SEVERAL TIME! IT HELPS ME PUT A BETTER OUT LOOK ON LIFE AND MYSELF!
A whimsical and quick read, this book is a great reminder of how to be the go-getter. Need a little pep-talk? This is it.
