https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40792913-altered-carbon
Folks have been recommending I read Richard Morgan for years.
But I've got a to-read stack longer than my arm, and my reading time is rather precious.
It's a big risk to try a longish book by an author I've never read before.
In a nutshell.
I loved it.
About halfway through the book I looked it up online and saw that it won a bunch of awards.
It deserves them.
I don't read as much Sci-fi as I used to, but I'm no newbie.
The world is unique and fresh.
Good characters.
Good stuff.
I'll be reading his other books shortly.
This is a cold, difficult reality in which Kovacs exists, and it feels lived-in, with a lot of backstory beneath the surface.
I’m hoping that backstory is explored later in the series, because it’s seriously intriguing.
There's also a chapter near the end that feels almost entirely superfluous.
Personally, I think the book would've been better without its inclusion.
This book also contains the most unintentionally hilarious sex scene I’ve ever read.
I could see this being even better on the second read.
I'll definitely be reading the rest of this series.
I haven't DNFed a book in a while but I just can't seem to get into this one...I read 120 pages in a week and was starting to be in a slump so I'm not continuing (at least for now). I wasn't a fan of the writing and the random sexual bits didn't help...I don't need to know that the character's penis is getting hard while staring at the boobs of the woman he's interviewing about the death of her husband. I just don't.
While it does have some shades of other dark/gritty sci-fi I have read or seen, the concepts were fresh and intriguing.- To expand on the last bullet point, there were scenes throughout the book that were very fascinating.
. .Recommended for:- Fans of dark and gritty Sci-fi stories- People who must read the book before watching the series- Lovers of complex, twisty, out-there plotsAvoid if:- You are confused easily- You don't care for gratuitous sex and violence
Hearing that Netflix new series is based off this series made me want to read this even more. Only hope the show is as good as the book is.
Takeshi Kovacs is killed on an another world and re-sleeved in Bay City in the body of a disgraced cop.
Damn right it was!Kovacs' quest takes him through the seedy underworld of the Bay City sex trade, among other places.
Kovacs wouldn't be out of place in any number of crime novels.
Bay City is a like a futuristic, and dirtier, San Francisco and is fairly well realized as a setting.
If you like your sci-fi with an action bend and/or are a fan of crime novels, this should keep you occupied for a few hours.
A fun and fast-paced thrill ride, almost impossible for me to put down. Picture a hard-boiled noir, the solitary, weary worldly detective, blunted emotional skills, stepping on toes as he investigates. Merge that plot and character with innovative science fiction–digitized personalities that can be downloaded into new bodies with the right reasons or enough cash, and the result is eminently readable.***********************Full review posted at:http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2014/0...ANDhttp://carols.booklikes.com/post/7738...-
When i watched the TV show in Netflix i had to read the book, it was like a compulsion, and boy was i rewarded, i haven't felt this greatly about a neo noir cyberpunk since Red Rising. Takeshi is a fascinating central character , the plot is tight and witty , full of action,mystery and betrayals, the background is rich, the technologies are awesome. I won't be forgetting "sleeving","needlecast" or dozens of other terms anytime soon.
Re-read 2/27/18:I had to pick this up again and hop on to the second and third books mostly because I was guilted into it by the Netflix production.
:)So did I enjoy it more the second time around?
:)Original review:Great genre writing, even if it is a perfect mix of noir and post-cyberpunk.
I know, I know, cyberpunk is generally associated with noir 50's style tough guy private-eye pulp, only with the shiny.This is different because it is POST-cyberpunk in the great tradition I love to associate with Brin's Kiln People or any of the hard-sci Stross or some of the best of Stephenson.
In a future where the human mind has been digitised and can be downloaded into a new body a criminal, Takeshi Kovacs, is pulled from prison (or cold storage as it is in this futuristic sci-fi world) and offered a catch-22 deal by a powerful businessman.
This was 100% a sci-fi noir detective story.
All in all I enjoyed Altered Carbon a lot and rate it as one of the better sci-fi books I've read in the last few years and possibly the best sci-fi I've read with a noir detective theme.
Less humorous, darker and deeper than I expected - nevertheless I absolutely loved this book.
What I loved the most about it is noir atmosphere, good balance between action and philosophy, darkness and intrigue of the investigation.With explicit sex scenes, torture, and exploration of the darker side of human nature – this is certainly a read for adults.
Don’t expect to get out unscathed.
Like good grimdarks often do – it leaves you thoughtful and bruised.Recommend for readers looking for a though provoking sci-fi.
A must-read for noir and grimdark fans.
Although it is absolutely full of graphic violence and has a few X-rated sex scenes, every part is so well written, it all fits.
But, the way Morgan writes it, the sex and violence come off as being necessary to the story and the characters.
He really goes into the various implications of a transhuman world where people can upload their thoughts, memories and personalities to different bodies (sleeves), depending on their ability to afford the costs.
If you can handle the violence, sex and complicated plot, it is an excellent read and well worth the time and effort.
Liked these books a lot. Misogynist but whatever, hardboiled sci-fi was fun :)
The discovery of Sheryl Bostock felt forced and came out of the blue, too.I finished the book with a sort of relieved sense that it was over and don't have much good to say about it.
I don't think the narrative was cohesive and the only thing that keeps you going is that you want to know how all the details of the plot -- even if it's a poorly rigged one.However, it did get me thinking about interesting things -- about how much of who we are is the biochemical and neurological wiring of our physical selves and what it'd be like to separate that body from our stored memories.
Even though the show is full of nudity and violence, on the whole, it is a more progressive story than this novel, at least it takes care to treat its female characters as people (albeit people who get naked a lot).
Altered Carbon, published in 2002, feels incredibly dated and is the kind of man-written book I just don't care to read anymore.
(I was especially irked when Kovacz was tortured in virtual reality and for some reason he was in a woman’s body, I guess so that he could describe the breasts and be hurt in that special way.
And that’s just where the fun starts, a sleeve isn’t necessarily some grown for that purpose clone, this can be a criminal or victim whose consciousness has been stored and then the body is available for purchase.
Morgan doesn’t let this scenario go unplumbed either.Built around a weird murder mystery – except the “victim” is trying to solve his own death – and you know what, I’m not even going to try and explain that, you just gotta read it – BUT I will say that the victim is a tool called a Meth, short for Methusaleh, meaning rich folks who can afford to live forever.
If this unfortunate pressing of the flesh happened only once in the story, I might have been able to overlook it…It didn’t, so neither will I.Morgan jumps from profoundly cool concepts to silly tough guy posturing, but these scenes are equally poor in their execution.
Characters run round and round while their supporting cast - who are way cooler and decidedly more kick-ass than Kovachs ever got the chance to be - drop like flies.
And, in case I have undersold my dislike, here, let me spell it out for you: This was a book that was as hard for me to get through as it was for me to like, and it had cyborgs!
Hard-boiled and hard-balled cyberpunk novel, which is also a noir detective story.
I really liked all the sci-fi entourage, although I could use less violence and more humour, which could probably happen if it was written by Roger Zelazny.
But I also liked the philosophical side, the twisted psychological side and basically limitless possibilities of the Kovacs' world.
He reminded me strongly of my favourite cyberpunk heroine, major Motoko Kusanagi (he even had an invisible suit, you guys!).
I just learned Netflix is making a tv series and it's pretty much on the way to our screens.
Altered Carbon: Richard Morgan's Cyber-Punk Future “The human eye is a wonderful device. With a little effort, it can fail to see even the most glaring injustice.” ― Richard K. Morgan, Altered Carbon It takes something special for a book to keep me burning through the pages until 3 a.m. Altered Carbon by Richard K. Morgan is a helluva read. Winner of the Philip K. Dick Award for Best Novel, 2003Morgan is a wicked blend of Philip K. Dick and William Gibson. There is even a touch of Gene Roddenber
Altered Carbon: Richard Morgan's Cyber-Punk Future
Dick Award for Best Novel, 2003Morgan is a wicked blend of Philip K.
Of course, Miriam would like to see Kovacs close the case, making her a prime suspect.
But Morgan supplies us with a host of other likely suspects, whom I will not reveal for fear of disclosing too much of the plot.Let's just say this re-sleeving business is a huge money maker, along with virtual and actual prostitution a lucrative concern as well.
There is little justice for those without money or power.Morgan intriguingly plots his novel around the question of when does science cross the line of morality and religion.
Still, it is a fantastic sf book with plenty of food for thought and I would not hesitate to recommend it to anyone in search of an excellent sci-fi read.
There is an interesting discussion of the idea here.• I just realized that I have not touched upon how virtual reality is cleverly used in the book as an interrogation tool, now I don't know where to discreetly fit it into the review!• Update Jan 23, 2016: Netflix has picked up a 10-episode series based on Altered Carbon.• Update Dec 5, 2017:
It came to me highly recommended by a number of friends, good friends, caring, kind, and well-read friends who share with me a love of speculative fiction.
Bam, you’ve described a character in Altered Carbon.And then there’s the violence.
By around the halfway point, I was literally reading Altered Carbon out of pure spite.
I hate this book, I hate Richard Morgan, and I hate you.
I read (most of) Altered Carbon and came out the other side a changed man, and not for the better.
Please, for the love of all that you hold dear, don’t read this book.
He tenido Carbono Modificado cogiendo polvo en mis estanterías casi seis meses y aún con todo, decidí que mi primera toma de contacto con Takeshi Kovacs fuese en la serie de Netflix.
El misterio, que es al fin y al cabo para lo que hemos venido, está perfectamente hilado, y Morgan logra esa satisfactoria sensación de que unamos las piezas al tiempo que Kovacs y que apretemos los dientes, dándonos cuenta de las pistas que estaban allí todo el rato y no vimos en un primer momento.Carbono Modificado también tiene un fuerte mensaje y una parte de ese vitriolo que siente Morgan hacia los ricos y poderosos, al cual dio rienda suelta en Leyes de Mercado.
It's science fiction noir, and Morgan has a nice touch of both noir phrasing and overly-complicated noir plotting. I really didn't see the intricacies of the story until they were laid out, but it never worried me. I enjoyed being plunged into the confusing world that Takeshi Kovacs wakes up in, with little more information than he had. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Mythical Agents of Destiny: "Altered Carbon" by Richard K.
Morgan“If they want you, sooner or later they’ll scoop you up off the globe, like specks of interesting dust off a Martian artefact.
They are what we once dreamed of as gods, mythical agents of destiny, as inescapable as Death, that poor old peasant labourer, bent over his scythe, no longer is.
Poor Death, no match for the mighty altered carbon technologies of data storage and retrieval arrayed against him.
That said, Gibson's “The Peripheral” offered some fascinating directions, but were too interesting for that hoary old sub-genre title.
There are plenty of people who would want to, I mean, he's a rich asshole.
There also are a lot of people who are trying to kill Takeshi, and we aren't sure why.
I had to skim a bit.This book had all of the amazing future-stuff that I love, including those flying cars that I always talk about.
I would say that you will like this book if you love future sci-fi and gory mystery and maybe a bit of noir.
I abandoned it after about 100 or so pages. I liked the future setting and the advances in technology that change the concept of life and death. Unfortunately, it read like a script for an action movie. Some good ideas, but too much senseless action and violence ruined it for me.
Despite this, and the fact that this story deals with prostitution and horrible abuse of women in a disturbingly intimate manner, I don't feel that Mr. Morgan showed misogynistic tendencies in his writing.
The whole concept of sleeving (changing bodies), and stacking (digital storage of consciousness) was a bit disturbing for me.
There are some people (powerful ones) who don't seem to value human life; since, well, you can just buy a new body when the old one is not working anymore.
He doesn't seem to have an issue with sleeping with another man's wife, but he doesn't like prostitution.
I'd like to read more stories with Takeshi Kovacs, and more of Mr. Morgan's writing.
DNF@65%.
Now I am ready for the Netflix series 😁SciFi/cyberpunk is not my usual reading turf - but this is a fine story that I would be definitely recommending to others.Bits that I enjoyed the most:- general worldbuilding and setting detalisation (scary, dystopic but realistic imagination of the future) - character richness (very happy with all main actors really)- Quell's rebellion philosophy and associated myths.
A wonderful reimagination of a female ‘Che Guevara meets Spartacus’ character in Quellcrist FalconerOdd part:- the speed of technological innovation vs how long people spend in 'storage'.
He works closely with a hardened self-made female cop Kristin Ortega (Karrin Murphy to Takeshi's Harry)...
Livro machista demais. Foi muito difícil não passar raiva durante a leitura. Premissa promissora, mas execução difícil. Só terminei porque me comprometi a ler e ver a série.
