https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/433035.Sad_Cypress
With a beautiful title taken from Shakespeare's 'Twelfth Night', Sad Cypress is often referred to one of the most outstanding Agatha Christie books, and also one of the best to feature our favourite Belgian investigator, Poirot.
As the book opens, the main character Elinor Carlisle a woman blessed with beauty and brains reinforced by wealth - finds herself on trial for murder.
The mystery of Elinor's personality and her true motivations keeps the reader guessing continually throughout the book, and hungry to learn who really killed the poisoning victim, Mary Gerrard.Who is the murderer?
With interesting characters, a complex plot and some great courtroom scenes, this is a wonderful mystery.
Peter Lord's "She was a nice kid." Nurse Hopkins's "She could have gone on the films any time." Mrs. Bishop's venomous "No patience with her airs and graces." And now last, putting to shame, laying aside those other views, the quiet, wondering, "She was like a flower.”Sad Cypress was the first Poirot story set for quite a large part in the courtroom and depicting the legal procedure where we already have a defendant and prosecution/defense counselors presenting the (a) solution of the crime to a judge and jury.
I love Agatha Christie.
And I love Hercule Poirot (also Miss Marple but Poirot has my heart).I've actually read Sad Cypress several times but the last time was at least 10 years ago.
Her fiance, Roddy, is a fastidious, rather weak man with whom Elinor grew up.
They live off the expectation of an inheritance from their aunt (Roddy's aunt by marriage; the two are not blood-related).
An anonymous letter hinting at someone's attempt to work her way into the aunt's good graces (and perhaps upset the inheritance plans) leads to disaster.Reading Christie is like sitting at a fireplace drinking tea even when I'm sitting in a Bronx apartment.
The awkward thing is that the contemplation of murder is not an unusual topic for you.
Your surprisingly extensive knowledge of poison is also a questionable thing.
A noted botanist of human nature will soon arrive to save the day, and he’ll turn that sad cypress frown upside down.
Hold firm, young miss, class barriers will soon prove to be no obstacle at all to you – and perhaps all will see that murder is just another way of saying Goodbye!If you would like to say Hello instead, choose this adventure.If you would like to continue a life of contemplation amidst a company of magnificent cypress trees, choose this adventure.
من غير أجاثا يمكن أن يختار هذا العنوان الرقيق "السرو الحزين" لرواية بوليسية تدور أحداثها حول جريمة ق
"The human face is, after all, nothing more nor less than a mask." "And underneath?" "Underneath is the primitive man or woman."Elinor Carlisle stands accused of murder.
And the facts state that Elinor is the one who poisoned poor Mary Gerrard.
The only thing that stands between her and ruin is Hercule Poirot.This one...might just be my favorite Agatha Christie book thus far!
The story started out really strong and just seemed to grow more and more intense throughout the book, especially during the trial scene near the end.
:P But in any case, this was a very engaging story with a fascinating plot!
Young Elinor Carlisle is accused of murdering Mary Gerrard, Hercule Poirot is called to prove her innocence. But with such damming evidence, can he succeed?I really liked the structure of this novel, told in three parts with the set up, Poirot investigating and back to the court room.Even though Poirot doesn’t feature that heavily, I like he’s inclusion to the story.
This is one of those mysteries with an extremely tight plot. The human drama - the eternal love triangle - around the tragedy is gripping; there are a very limited number of suspects; and the accused seems to be indubitably guilty (in fact, the story starts with her trial). However, Poirot steps in with a last minute sleight of hand which leaves us all gasping for breath - with a perfectly plausible solution.Here, Dame Agatha's extensive knowledge of poisons - a skill she picked up during the war years - stands her in very good stead.
Reserve was always more interesting.” ―Rodney, in Sad Cypress, Christie “The human face is, after all, nothing more nor less than a mask.” ― Agatha Christie, Sad CypressThe title comes from a song from Act II, Scene IV of Shakespeare's Twelfth Night which is printed as an epigraph to the novel.Come away, come away, death,And in sad cypress let me be laid;Fly away, fly away breath;I am slain by a fair cruel maid.My shroud of white, stuck all with yew,O, prepare it!My part of death, no one so trueDid share it.Making my steady but inexorable way through the corpus of Christie’s Poirot whodunnits, I have almost always been entertained.
Well, for one, it opens with the trial of Elinor Carlisle for the murder of Mary Gerrad, who was "like a flower." Christie never did that before, and it compels her to work in flashback to unravel the crime.
Agatha Christie is one of the few authors I can generally count on for that : what I loved at 16, I still love at....well, my current age.Sad Cypress begin with the elegant, frosty Elinor Carlisle on trial for the murder of the gardener's daughter, Mary Gerrard, one of Christie's fey heroines, "she was like a flower." Both blonde, both beautiful, both beloved by Elinor's aunt, the wealthy owner of the estate both girls grew up on, Elinor's engagement to Rodney is called off after Elinor's aunt died leaving her wealth and land.Is it because Rodney is uncomfortable living off of Elinor's newly acquired wealth?
Макар и да не се подрежда сред любимите ми книги на Агата Кристи, се насладих на всяка една страница от "Тъжният кипарис", която, както и с досегашните й книги, прочетох само за ден. Боже, не знаех, че писането на Агата Кристи толкова ми е долипсвало...
I always get that nostalgic happy feeling whenever I pick up a Christie novel, this one didn't disappoint. When her Aunt dies suddenly of a stroke without leaving any sign of a will Elinor Carlisle finds herself to be the soul benefactor of her Aunt's estate. Not long after the death of her Aunt, Elinor stands accused for the murder of young Mary Gerrerd, her suspected love rival. All leads seem to be pointing to Elinor and so Hercule Poirot is called in to uncover the truth.A quick, fun, light-hearted read that I would recommend to all.
When you don't have what you must, should you feel unhappy?
And can you be unhappy enough to kill?
But someone believed she was innocent, hence came Poirot.
I liked this story, very much, indeed.
Here the mystery is not as important as the reason behind it.
Why is more important than how, but how is not quite bad either.
That's the main find out of this book.
I liked how things got reveled.
Story progressed nice and fine.
Situations came one after another, nice and fluid.
Agatha Christie is a great observer of human character.
This book is as great as any.
And I LOVE when Christie shows off her considerable expertise about poisons--once doesn't have to know about apomorphine to deduce that a strong emetic must have been used by the murderer, but it is intellectually satisfying that she does give us something so precise instead of a vague, unscientific solution.Sad Cypress is really first-rate, and the only flaw is that the murderer couldn't have known Elinor wouldn't drink the poisoned tea right along with Mary.
Christie does an interesting thing in this novel by focusing a large part of the narration through one character's point of view while not revealing her true thoughts, creating interest and enhancing the suspense. The courtroom sections were also nicely combined, seemingly widening the field. Poirot of course 'does his thing' but in a very smart way, adapting his approach and interrogation to each witness in order to get to the facts. This was surprising since his ego is usually in the way ;0)
"Roddy, Roddy, de pie allí, parpadeando un poco, con aire de detestar todo aquello. Roddy..., presentando un aspecto... no real del todo. Pero ya no hay nada real. Todo remolinea de una manera diabólica. Lo negro es blanco, lo de arriba está abajo, y el Este es Oeste... Y yo no soy Elinor Carlisle: yo soy «la acusada». "Giro inpeserado. Buena novela.
Murder by Poisoning. This is the only story in which Christie also talks about the antidote to the poison. Compared to the others, the story line is weak and there are just too many coincidences in the way Poirot solves the crime. The master sleuth himself appears when more than half the plot is revealed. The novel fails to hold your attention
ده اللى بقوله بعد كل رواية لأجاثا كريستي :D إلينور كارليسل بريئة من تهمة قتل مارى جيرارد رغم كل الأدلة الموجهة ضدها، ورغم امتلاكها الدافع والوقت الكافى لإرتكاب الجريمةهيركيول بوارو يعتقد ذلك وهو دائما على حقلكن إن كانت إلينور بريئة فمن الفاعل إذا؟ وما دوافعه؟
Brilliant! Had no idea, kept me guessing one of my favourite Poirots!
শুভ জনমদিন আগাথা করিসটি(নানু)। ওঁনার লেখার সাথে পরিচিত হবার ঘটনাটা বলছি শুনুন, তখন টু কিংবা থরিতে পড়ি। ঈদ করতে নানুবাড়ি গেছি। আমাদের মতো অনয কাজিনরাও এসেছে। তাদের মধযে রাজু ভাই(খালাত ভাই)কে দেখলাম একটা মোটা বই পড়ছেন বসে বসে(অনেকটা তাকে দেখেই আমি বই পড়া শুরু করি)। আগাথা করিসটি সমগর। কোলকাতার কোন পরকাশনীর, একদম ইটের সাইজের বই। সে বইটা রেখে একটু অনয কোথাও যেতেই আমি বসে পড়ি, উলটিয়ে পালটিয়ে পড়ে ফেলি এ মারডার ইজ অযানাউনসড(অনেক সংকষেপিত এবং একটু "কেমন যেন" অনুবাদ ছিল-এখন বুঝি সেটা), কিনতু কথা হলো কথা স
শুভ জন্মদিন আগাথা ক্রিস্টি(নানু)। ওঁনার লেখার সাথে পরিচিত হবার ঘটনাটা বলছি শুনুন, তখন টু কিংবা থ্রিত
Elinor Carlisle stands accused of the murder of Mary Gerrard and the first part of this book looks at her looking back at the events which led her there.
Elinor comes across as a slightly cold and controlled young woman, but she is passionately in love with Roddy Welman, who she has known since they were young children and who are both related to Aunt Laura.
However, when Mary is poisoned, Elinor’s is accused of killing her out of jealousy.This is an unusual Poirot novel, in that there is a possible miscarriage of justice, which is something hardly ever suggested in an Agatha Christie book.
Agatha'dan okuduğum 50. hikaye oldu bu da... Ne kadar çok okursam okuyayım, her kitabın tadı ayrı.
Šta reći; Agata. Volim svaku njenu knjigu i mislim da bih svaku ocijenila sa pet nebitno kakva bila. :D
An unusually set up mystery that begins with court proceedings, as the accused suspect is being tried for the murder of an innocent, lovely girl. But of course, the things aren't what they seem. As we learn through flashback, someone else must be the guilty party. The trick is now to find out who. I did not expect much from this little novel, but ended up really having a good time with it.
Thêm một tác phẩm xuất sắc nữa của Nữ hoàng truyện trinh thám :)) Đọc mà không thể nào ngừng được ^^ 2 ngày nghỉ lễ ở nhà quất sạch luôn :DBìa sách đẹp, dù là bản tiếng Anh hay tiếng Việt ^^ Nói chung có bông hoa lá hẹ là tui khoái :)))))
Excellent book! Very different from other Poirot books so far! Simply loved it, more on this review later...
The human face is, after all, nothing more nor less than a mask...
I read that the novel was well received by her critics who said things like; "the ingenuity and superb clueing put it among the very best of the classic titles" and "it is economically written, the clues are placed before the reader with impeccable fairness, the red herrings are deftly laid and the solution will cause many readers to kick themselves." And here we go:We begin the story with Elinor Katharine Carlisle on trial for the murder of Mary Gerrard.
And bad things are about to start happening, Mrs. Welman tells Elinor she would like to see her lawyer to "do something" for Mary Gerrard, but before the lawyer arrives, her aunt is dead.
A 95%. OUTSTANDING BOOK.I was so unprepared for this. Ahlala.... There is nothing to be said. Except:And I have a degree n°2 not to throw books. Seriously though, I was so happy with this book. Amazing plot twist. Amazing characters....And it's a very easy read (personally speaking).You can rush through it and finish it in a day or so.ƁRAƲO AƓAƬHA ƇHRǀSƬǀƐ!!!!!!!!!!!!
رمان یکی از معماهایی را روایت میکند که کارآگاه افسانهای هرکول پوآرو، برای حل آن اقدام میکند. سرو غمگین سال ۱۹۴۰ برای نخستین بار در دنیا به چاپ رسیده است. علاوه بر مترجم و ناشر کتاب، محمد گذرآبادی نیز آنرا به فارسی برگردانده و انتشارات هرمس نیز آن را منتشر کرده است
رمان یکی از معماهایی را روایت می‌کند که کارآگاه افسانه‌ای هرکول پوآرو، برای حل آن اقدام می‌کند. سرو غمگین سال ۱۹۴۰ برای نخستین بار در دنیا به چاپ رسیده است. علاوه بر مترجم و ناشر کتاب، محمد گذرآبادی نیز آنرا به فارسی برگردانده و انتشارات هرمس نیز آن را منتشر کرده است
