https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82966.The_Butcher_s_Boy
The summary makes it sound like the kind of story where Elizabeth would track down the hit man, or maybe even that the Butcher’s Boy and her would have to form an unlikely partnership to survive the mob war if it was another kind of thriller.
At the end of the day it’s like the story was really about this mob war with BB in the middle of it while Elizabeth is on the outside looking in.
Since Butcher’s Boy features only two characters who often aren’t around when major events happen, it ends up feeling oddly disjointed and as if we’re only getting part of the story.This might have worked if I liked the two leads better.
But he runs into unexpected problems, and it soon appears that the men who hired him would rather kill him than pay him.Big mistake.As the story plays out, we watch as the Butcher's Boy attempts to save both his life and his professional reputation, while Elizabeth sorts through her data, hoping to get a line on the elusive killer.
Watching both of them at work is a lot of fun, and Perry is very inventive and creative in the way that developments unfold and in the way in which the two characters, the Butcher's Boy in particular, react and adjust on the fly.When it first appeared in 1982, this novel won the prestigious Edgar Award for Best First Novel, and deservedly so.
The prize is to find out who the puppeteers are, who is pulling the strings and paying to take out big game on the political and industrial scene (view spoiler)[ a US senator investigating sensitive business deals  (hide spoiler)]As conspiracy theory thrillers with criminals as first person narrators go, this one was a great choice for my summer vacation reads, and if only I had the disposition to review it upon completion, I would easily have given four stars to a very well told and twisted story.
Thomas Perry is a promising talent on the scene.
Happily rounding up my 3.5-star rating to 4 because of  Elizabeth Waring  who, despite being a woman in the man's man's world of 80s government, and proclaiming that “I'm not even a field investigator. I'm a data analyst.” still manages to be pretty kickass. Data nerds FTW!
I'm giving this an extra star since it was a first book & I think the author has real possibilities, so this is the place to start.
Don't expect it to blow your doors off.The book started out strong, but petered out a bit in the middle as it got more twisted than it needed to be.
I'd like to read another just for him.
Buying a pistol second hand & using it is one thing, but who buys a rifle & then counts on it to be sighted in?
I could see one goof, but not the second.
And while I had/have reservations about the book in some ways, overall I like it.We're dealing here with a story told from 2 points of view.
For some time she's been going over lists of murders...murders from all over the country.
Maybe she'll find a murder that doesn't look like a murder...and then...maybe she does.Thus we set up our story with one protagonist seeking another as that protagonist tries to unravel the deadly mess he's in.It's a pretty good book though it has some flaws.
While it ties up some "sub-plot-points" found in this book things are still going on.So, yeah I like it.
An Aged 2.5 Stars   Random Ramblings Within the past year I have read In the Woods, Rogue Island and now The Butcher's Boy. Each of these won the Edgar Award for best first novel.
The majority of books I read have been written the past ten year.
A female agent from the US Departments of Justice is following a trail of murders.
Final Thoughts I read this book after multiple people sang its praises.
Maybe this novel held some magic in 1983 but in 2014, the magic has faded.It is difficult to find commentary on the sex/violence/language content of book if you are interested.
Elizabeth Waring is a Justice Department agent assigned to investigate the killing of a union leader, the victim of a fertilizer explosion in the back of his truck.
Our nameless hitman, The Butcher's Boy of the title, is suddenly targeted for murder by someone high up in the Las Vegas mob.
The story had all the momentum of a blockbuster thriller starring Christian Bale as the hitman and Scarlet Johannsen as Elizabeth.
I just didn't care about the nameless hitman enough to care who wanted him dead.
FYI, the guy who wanted him dead NEVER made an actual appearance in the story.While this book had its moments, they were few and far between.
My first Thomas Perry book and certainly not my last I would like to thank my GR FRIENDS for the recommendation. Very enjoyable read from beginning to end!
Still, as the story winds down her end begins to sag.Perhaps the most interesting thing--in my copy, anyway (Random House, 2003)--is the introduction by Michael Connelly, where he does virtual gymnastics to avoid calling The Butcher’s Boy a great novel.
He calls it a favorite, and praises character and pace, and remarks on Perry’s grasp of “the cornerstones of craft.” Connelly also reminds us that the author continues to get better and that this particular work won an Edgar Award.
But what I especially liked about this debut novel was the description of the myriad ways big government departments involved in secret investigations and crime detection fail to communicate among themselves.
Even better, his main maiden Elizabeth Waring, desk analyst extraordinaire, actually fails in her responsibilities several times in her first field outing, setting the investigation back irreparably.Hard-boiled, even hard-bitten, crime novels like this one seem peculiarly male, despite the fact that two of his more interesting and fleshed-out creatures are female.
Kind of a strange story.
Basically the story of a hitman, whose latest hits unravel and he finds himself on the run from the mob and others.
Throw in a side story of Elizabeth Waring, a Dept of Justice agent who is trying to solve the initial murders and finding herself in trouble every step of the way; losing important files, losing potential witnesses, etc.
Just try to keep up and to make sense of this story.
I will probably read the remaining stories in this series, once I find them but just not right away.
A terrific romp with my new fav kickass protagonist, FBI agent Elizabeth Waring and my new fav author Thomas Perry.
Narrated to perfection by Michael Kramer.
Perry won the Edgar Award for this book in 1982.
Michael Connelly’s 2002 preface to the book is a gem.
Placed in the 80s when federal taxes are 43% the 70 year old, 6 term Senator from Colorado is committed to get his tax bill through next session but unfortunately is murdered before he can make it happen.
Glad it passed and no one was murdered!)Thanks for the recommendation Boris!
A rising analyst in the Justice Department, Elizabeth Waring, finds an improbable link between the death by dynamite of a union representative and the deadly heart attack of a U.S. Senator from Colorado. As it turns out, both were killed by an assassin working for the Mafia, who seeks retribution when they try to kill him too. Fast paced and Perry won a prestigious award for this, his first novel.
The researcher is a young woman, an analyst who spends her days looking for nuggets of information in vast fields of data.
The hit man is a hired gun of long experience and skillful tradecraft.
The story switches back and forth between their points of view.The hit man inadvertently sets off a war between mob factions and becomes a target himself.
As he is dodging bullets and dispatching rivals on a cross-country run for cover, our heroine is contending with office politics, overbearing males and a possible mole in the department as she is certain she has picked up the trail of the man who killed that senator...
Smart, clever,engaging...characters,as well as story.An award winningbook, for a reason.Narrator was ok.
Elizabeth Waring is a data analyst for the Department of Justice who has the unenviable task of looking at print-outs searching for any murder that might have been done by a professional killer.
However, she and the FBI agent who is helping her are removed from that investigation in order to look at the death of a prominent senator.
Or is a summit in the works?We progress through the book, alternating between Elizabeth conducting her investigations and the hit man moving in and out of danger.
In her own way, Elizabeth was the law-abiding version of the hit man.
We watch Elizabeth working through her field investigation and the hit man going through his situations.
An early 80s Edgar Award winner, this wonderful adventure pits Department of Justice prodigy Elizabeth Waring against The Butcher’s Boy, the professional assassin who remains nameless throughout the book.
He’s good at his job.
Two early murders, one of an influential U.S. Senator, put the Department of Justice and Elizabeth and her co-workers, sometimes in uneasy alliance with the FBI and local law enforcement, on the trail of an unknown murderer, maybe two since they aren’t sure if the homicides are related or not.
This is one more sample of why I find Perry to be a most reliable story teller, entertaining and consistently good.
And so, after an appropriate number of pages, I was sufficiently transfixed to say—"Where in the H*** has this guy been!?" I have been a big fan ever since that day back in the 80's, essentially devouring Perry books as they appear.The man writes GOOD!
He's damn good, and he knows it, working hard to be shadowy to friend and foe alike.Finishing a job, and heading to Vegas to get paid, he discovers the universal truth—"What have you done for me lately?" Now, the Mafia that hired him, and the FBI that wants him are both in pursuit, and his wits are tested as he seeks revenge and restitution.
"Butcher's Boy" is one of my very favourite crime novels--- witty, dark, complicated, full of feints and twists and unexpected moments.
Perry's unnamed main figure, the hitman know as "the Butcher's Boy", is a fascinating and sympathetic figure--- a craftsman proud of his trade and proud of his professionalism.
His main female character--- the DOJ analyst unexpectedly (and unwittingly) chasing him ---is no less well-crafted and sympathetic.
It will take you three-fourths of the way through the book to figure out exactly who is after the hero and why...and the feds never quite do figure out whether there's anyone there to really pursue.
Perhaps it is because said hit man is clearly bright and has such careful habits and such a will to survive.
The plot is fairly complex and at some times hard to follow (because I do not understand about the underworld and money laundering, etc., etc.), but still intriguing.
I understand that there is a follow-up to this book that was written years later and I think I will try reading it as well – just to become reacquainted with this hit man and what has become of him.

4* I find it nearly impossible to believe that this was a debut novel. It is solid, and jam-packed with action, excitement, and detail. Good one!
The novel tells the overlapping narratives of a hit-man known as "The Butcher's Boy" who gets caught amid tensions of the organized crime assortment, and an intelligent and hard-working Justice Department crime analyst on her first field assignment.
The Butcher's Boy is a good read, both tense and interesting.
The interesting bits come from the fact that the various judicial parties of the United States are improperly organized, work poorly together amid professional diplomacies and lack of straightforward communication, and essentially foil an investigation that our young analyst, Elizabeth Waring, works so hard to piece together.
As suspense/thrillers go, this one was top shelf.
The plot revolves around an unnamed professional hit man who is, not surprisingly, connected to the Vegas underworld, and a young, inexperienced-in-the-field Justice Dept.
analyst, Elizabeth Waring, who realizes that there is a serial killer on the loose.
The two characters act and carry on separately throughout the novel, with the Feds trying to figure out what's going on, and why, and with the killer trying to tie up loose ends without also being killed himself in the process.
It's really clever plotting, and it kept me reading late into the night.
In the introduction to this 1983 Edgar winner for best first novel, Michael Connelly promises the reader a great suspense ride and the book lives up to it. A lean, spare prose style with a dual narrative that follows a Justice Department employee and the title character that was read with a low key style by Michael Kramer made this an enjoyable audio.
About halfway in, I realized I just didn't care about this book. The characters are not interesting. The plot is confusing to me. Nothing really interesting or exciting is happening. This is one of the few books I have ever just decided to not finish. I couldn't take it anymore.
Reading this book, I realized that the lack of cell phones, PDA, and the internet created a whole other world of tension, misdirection, and intrigue for the detective genre. Enjoyed this book, but not as much as the Jane Whitefield series.
واقعیات، توهمات و خاطرات واسه کسی که دچار اختلال روحی و روانی شده قابل تمایز نیست. متن کتاب جوری از نگاه شخصیت داستان روایت میشه که واسه خواننده هم این تفکیک سخت باشه.
This book was well-reviewed, but I simply did not care for the style. It did not engage me and I did not feel the characters were particularly well-drawn. I nearly gave up on it halfway through.
