https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10279252-the-strange-high-house-in-the-mist
This method of uniting the realistic and the fantastic was what Lovecraft needed—besides the mythos itself, of course—to both summon and command the imaginative visions that would visit him in his last prolific decade.A “philosopher” newly arrived in town is determined to climbs a cliff near the Kingsport shore often shrouded in morning mist.
What he sees there—and its profound effect on him and the townspeople below—is the subject of the story.Although the tale begins with a few Dunsanian excesses, Lovecraft soon settles down to an evocative description of the surrounding hills, cliffs and the shore.
The Strange High House in the Mist is one of the dream stories.
Not even the Terrible Old Man. The only thing they do know is that someone is up there since they can see the lights in the mist.
Then one summer Thomas Olney arrives to Kingsport with his stout family and decides to investigate the house.
He meets an old man there and his other strange visitors.Eventually, he returns to his family but not everything is as it was before.The young men from Kingsport wish to visit the site too, but the old people are afraid they would leave a part of them there.
A beautiful, creepy tale of an ancient house on a seaside cliff, told in the flowery prose that H.P. does so well.
This is Lovecraft at his best.
One of my favorites of his.
In a seaside old town, there's a strange, mysterious cottage at the top of a high cliff which is too high for anyone to climb up to.
Then a man gets curious enough to try to get into this Strange High House in the Mist and solve the mystery once and for all.What this short story can teach us?Curiosity kills the cat, sort of.Going to strange places isn't good for you.Befriending the old folk who lived in a mysterious cottage isn't good for you, either.The mystery is well set (why the only door to the Strange House is open to the cliff above the ocean?
Eran varios relatos. La mayoría escritos de una manera un poco demasiado extraña, todos demasiado cortos. Algunos me han gustado bastante (Ex Oblivione, Lo que nos trae la Luna, Nyarlathotep...). Otros estaban simplemento OK; otros regular, y otros no eran ni siquiera relatos, eran cartas, memorias o yo que se qué (un peñazo, en cualquier caso).Lo bueno de que sean cortos es que los malos te los despachas pronto...
An interesting hybrid of horror, fantasy and tale of ancient Gods.Local superstition surrounds a mysterious house on the cliff, and the protagonist sets out to discover the truth.A mysterious and almost fairytale like story, which never really terrifies or un-nerves, but there is some nice tension built and an interesting ending.
Even I'm a big H.P. Lovecraft fan, this story was very flat. Lovecraft always have the power to take me into amazing worlds, with amazing characters and epic situations and in this book I felt I was just reading a long and slow description of a flat situation with lack of H.P. Lovecraft's excitement.
Man this has potential, but goes a little too far into pure fantasy mode for my tastes. The mystery of the house itself is awesome, the reveal, at least for me, doesn't quite live up to the promise though.
Excelente relato con guiños al Viejo Terrible, Ulthar, etc. Y la intrigante Arkham... <3
Містяни його бояться і вірять, що стоїть він там споконвіку, і ніхто не наважується до нього наближатися, дарма, що видимої стежки до нього не видно, а по прямовисній скелі ніхто до нього не полізе.На відпочинок до Кінгспорта приїхав філософ Томас Олні з родиною.
За своє життя він побачив багато чого і звичайні речі викликали у нього тільки нудьгу.
Тому він любив залізти повище над урвищем і споглядати ранковий туман.
З того часу Олні більше не шукав нічого нового і цікавого, звичайне життя перестало бути для нього нудним і, схоже, уява покинула його.
Gone are the "gotcha!" reversals of the previous works.
Gone is the gore and jumps and slime most closely associated with the style.
Instead, the text is driven by subtly and an off kilter sense of other worldliness that is never immediately threatening but still unsettling.What doesn't work: the prose.
The prose follows an anachronistic style that cranks his usual floweriness WELL past 11.
The language is meandering beyond repair and often confuses allusion for substance.Structurally, the piece is more sophisticated than the usual weird fiction.
The language itself, however, is pretentious and self important beyond enjoyment.Apparently this text is part of a trio?
This story made me aware of one of the problems with Lovecraft, or perhaps one of his strengths if one prefers that sort of thing, and it is the way that he describes characters having interacted and spoken, rather than actually writing the conversation or interaction.
Thus everything feels like a second-hand account making it all very distant.
There is no sense of actually experiencing the events or interactions, just a dry, flowery rendition of rumors, myths, and places, with no emotional punch.
Olney and occupant of the house discuss at length amazing and mysterious events, so the reader is told, but that's it.
I don't remember much about this story because it was quite forgettable. There were a few references to his other early works like The Other Gods and Polaris, which I thought was pretty cool, but as I finished an oppressive storm came with much ferocity ⛈ Perhaps I had incurred the wrath of the gods by reading it. 💭
Sentences full of descriptive words crashed on the shore of my mind, at regular intervals, punctuated by points. I was lulled by the wordy waves and almost fell asleep by the emptiness of a story full of words.
Unfortunately, I didn't review this one right when I finished it as I was out of review space under the collection I'm reading. I remember it, yes, but not nearly in enough detail to comment on it now. So that pretty much tells me what I need to know, yes?
A strange tale of a house that is high on a cliff surrounded by mist and its strange inhabitants. It is an eerie read.
This is a lovely Lovecraftian fairy tale, a thing I did not expect before I found it.
7/10
Very enjoyable. I suspect Lovecraft would be appalled that I want to interpret this as a romance.
Thomas Olney, a philosopher visiting the town of Kingsport, Massachusetts with his family, is intrigued by a strange house on a cliff overlooking the ocean.
It is unaccountably high and old and the locals have a generations-long dread of the place which no one is known to have visited.
The only door opens directly onto a sheer cliff, giving access only to mist and "the abyss".
The transmittal of archaic lore and a life-altering encounter with the supernatural ensue, as Olney is not the only visitor that day.
He returns to Kingsport the next day, but seems to have left his spirit behind in the strange, remote dwelling.
This is another story featuring Lovecraft's fictional New England town of Kingsport.The highest cliff overlooking Kingsport is topped with an ancient house the origin of which and the inhabitants of which are nothing more than untried rumor. An outsider to Kingsport decides to climb the cliff to find out the truth.Other reviewers have called the story a nostalgic fairy tale. I think that is about as accurate a description as you can get.3 STARS
After moving to Kingsport, Thomas Olney, philosopher, wants to visit the house high up in the mountains his new neighbors avoid. Despite warnings from the town's oldest residents—warnings they received from their elders—he climbs the mountains to find the house that everyone sees and ignores.Please read the full review here.
Beautifully written, wonderful premise and atmosphere, the best short story by Lovecraft I've read yet, even if it doesn't inspire too much terror. He was really on the top of his game when he wrote this one. It's almost like a fairy-tale.
I've arranged my takeaway thoughts into a haiku:"How does one bounce back,Realizing their grandest theoriesWere only the start?"
Much ado about not much.
Odd tale, more nostalgic than horrific.... but not the same way that The Silver Key is. More of a fairy tale set in the Mythic world.
Entretenido
