https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30009.Asimov_s_Guide_to_the_Bible
Then too, many mainstream Christians and Jews share that assessment, and thus they stand to gain from Asimov's approach as well.Another of Asimov's goals (as candidly set forth in his Introduction) is to place the historical events set forth in the Bible within their broader contexts.
Asimov is unrelenting in using secular historical sources to tie Biblical events in with the doings of the great ancient empires such as the Mittanians, Egyptians, Assyrians, Mycenaeans, Babylonians, Greeks, Parthians, and Romans.
He doesn't present any scientific critique (noting only that the Bible miscalculates the value of pi in describing dimensions of Temple furniture)--but the scientific background of the writer is always present, insofar as miraculous and supernatural events are summarily dismissed as legends, metaphors, or other types of fictional accretions.He doesn't footnote the views of other commentators, usually distinguishing them from his own views by marking others' theses as "some have said" or "the usual position." His own views on disputed issues appear to be marked out as tentative submissions, noting "perhaps" or "speculation." The non-academic style can be a bit frustrating in this respect.He does give special attention to passages from the Hebrew scripture that later writers in the Roman period found compelling.As an example of the awesomeness herein, consider Asimov's basic reading of the deuterocanonical text of Judith:"This now adds an additional element of anachronism.
I found a copy in a city library while living in the Bible Belt.
I mentioned it to some heavily christian friends and the book tragically ended up being destroyed in a book burning.
It took me over 14 years to find a replacement copy.It is not anti-religious, even though it was written by Asimov, an atheist.
Instead, the book describes the world at the time when the books of the bible were written.
It also gives possible scientific or cultural explanations for some of the miracles described in those books.I would say that this book would be an excellent addition to those interested in the christian bible.
While Asimov purported to just be dealing with the factual background of the Bible--and he does provide many interesting, if trivial facts--his point of view is plainly that the Bible (and assumedly all books of faith) are fiction. Given that orientation, it's still a useful resource.
If I had to pick books that forever changed the way I look at history, this one would seem like a dark horse.
But believe it or not, Yitzchak Izaak Azimov (yes, the sci-fi author) managed to alter the way I look at both history and the bible.The history is slightly dated--hey, it was written in the 1960s.
The focus of the book is to explain how contemporary history (or contemporary to Asimov) views the episodes of the Bible.
Asimov is not a minimalist: whenever possible, he tries to take the Bible seriously as an historical document.
But other times, he does his best to reconcile history with the Bible.
A great book that helps to explain the historical context in which the events of the Bible play out. When my son and I read the Bible together, we read through this at the same time. Many otherwise confusing passages came clear, and we also learned of some details that are still debated by scholars and theologians. This is worth reading front to back, but is probably most useful as a reference; when questions come up regarding a specific chapter or verse, take the time to see what Asimov has to say about it!
this book does a great job of breaking the bible down, nearly book-for-book, and showing where the nacent christian religion fit in with history. However, this isn't to say that it is a christian book. Rather, it goes through the books and matches what the bible says with what is known from other, more reliable, sources (assyrian, chinese, roman records, etc). You might say it is a secular look at the books of the bible.
Asimov goes through the entire Bible and provides the best current analysis of where all the material came from and points out inconsitencies and problems with the texts. I found it very enlightening.
یه راهنمای خوب واسه کتاب مقدس که این کتاب رو بیشتر از نظر تاریخی و جفرافیایی بررسی میکنه و اطلاعات خیلی خوبی رو ارایه میده مخصوصا قسمت عهد عتیق ممنون فربد عزیز واسه معرفیت
This edition is the two volumes in one for a whopping 1296-pages and includes maps by the artist Rafael Palacios.This guide goes through the books of the Bible in King James Version order, explaining the historical and geographical setting of each one and the political and historical influences that affected it.Asimov even goes as far as providing biographical information about the main characters.
For those of you who really want to know "what's really going on" as well as "what's happened before" this guides to the Old and New Testament includes biblical verse, footnotes, references and subject indexes.Suggested for anyone who wants to know about the arc of history.
It does not matter if you are an atheist or believer - the book is an excellent detailed historical analysis of the period of time covered by the Bible.
The best analysis from a historical, geographical and logical standpoint.
I was always looking for a scientific analysis of the Bible and Asimov did that.
The connections between multiple myths and mythology and the Bible, the logical explanation of what is described in the Bible, the revealing of many errors in years and names of people described in the Bible.
And al of it is done in a very objective and neutral manner.
Asimov, best known as a science fiction master, took a long and hard look at the Christian Bible and came up with observations that never seemed to occur to the many Bible teachers I had as a boy. Asimov is a much better Bible teacher than they are. Having said that, this book would almost certainly be unwelcome in most Bible study sessions. I won't elaborate - but be sure to find a place for it on your reference shelf.
This is a large tome, and certainly more a reference book than a novel. It can be quite a dry read at times, but in small doses, it is really fascinating. I keep it in my bathroom and randomly read entries a few hundred words at a time.
This is a wonderful reference text. Asimov compares the biblical accounts with other historical references of the time. Over the years, we have found it provides a different perspective to the events, often including a frame of reference.
The Good Doctor employs his usual insight and erudition to describe the secular history behind each of the books of the Bible and put them into the appropriate context; this single-volume edition covers both the Old & New Testaments.
Asimov goes through the Bible and interprets the stories written by the uninformed ancients based on what we now know what was going on at the time. I found it very interesting.
This is an amazing read! His analysis also includes books not included in the King James version of the Bible.
I've never read an Isaac Azimov book I didn't like.If you are ready, then this one will certainly teach you a few things.
What Asimov is interested in is how the Bible lines up with the historical record and setting the books in the context of Ancient History.
He goes book by book and explains who wrote it (and whether or not it is likely that is who it is attributed to), where the places they are talking about are with lots and lots of maps, whether it is corroborated by the rest of the historical record, and what the most likely biases of the authors were given that most books of both the old and new testament were written well after the events they describe.
As I've heard books like this described before, it could be titled, "Introduction to Biblical Contradictions and Inconsistencies." So, if you have never encountered the historical-critical Bible, and you want at 1960's perspective on it, this has some value for you.
If you want a way to look up stories in the Bible and find historical inaccuracies, implausibilities, and contradictions, this has some value.But my gripe is that those books have been written, many times, by many many people.
It also gives possible scientific or cultural explanations for some of the miracles described in those books.In 1967 he decided to put the Old and New Testament of the bible into historical context.
This edition is the two volumes in one for a whopping 1296-pages and includes maps by the artist Rafael Palacios.This guide goes through the books of the Bible in King James Version order, explaining the historical and geographical setting of each one and the political and historical influences that affected it.Asimov even goes as far as providing biographical information about the main characters.
In essence Asimov seems to consider the bible as one of the most important history books ever written, and treats it as such.There is no theological commentary, just information.
So did I until I read this book.
Along the way, we are treated to Secular History that has been verified by other records and not just the Bible.
I especially liked the parts that covered verifiable Jewish and Early Christian History.
For instance, there are numerous references to Marduk and Ishtar and other gods of the Babylonian Pantheon.The Pentateuch and other parts make for pretty dry reading, but trying to estimate the relative dates and authors of certain books must be pretty hard.
In any case, I really enjoyed this book.
It is a secular tour of the books of the Bible - painting the back drop of periods of time where the rise and fall of dominance in the Assyrian, Babylonian, Persian, Greek, and Roman conquests affected Judaism and Christian perspectives.
To borrow a paragraph from the introduction:Millions know Ahasuerus as a Persian king who married Esther, even though there is no record of such an event outside the Bible.
Most of those same millions never suspect that he is better known to modern historians as Xerxes and that the most important event of his reign was an invasion of Greece that ended in utter defeat.
"Most people who read the Bible do so in order to get the benefit of its ethical and spiritual teachings, but the Bible has a secular side, too.
It is a history book covering the first four thousand years of human civilization."-Issac Asimov"People whose very existence is doubtful...
are household word because they are mentioned in the Bible, while figures who were colossal in their day are sunk in oblivion because they are not."-Isaac AsimovThis book is a massive read.
If you and a friend were to sit down and discuss what you knew about religion, then this book would read like that.
"You'll never do it, Jams!" the doubters (in my imagination) said.Well I did it. And I loved it. This book is exhaustively researched and respectfully written. As a scholarly work, it's fantastic. It generally stands the test of time. I think this book would be a great companion to any person with any interest in the bible, Christianity or Judaism. It's a really good companion/reference book for study purposes or just to read for edification and a broader understanding of the history and politics surrounding the creation of what became the bible.
This is an indespensable reference book for people who want a more complete and less emotional driven interpretation of the writings of the bible. I use it often both when I am writing and to check out propositions made by those I am discussing the Christian religion with. Asimov applies his scientific organization and ability to clarify to the bible and the results are very helpful to those who are interested in more than just a dogmatic and/or feel-good approach to what they believe or disbelieve.
• When considering the scope of this book one really has to be amazed at the genius that is Isaac Asimov. He literally read the entire Bible, and then discussed each book in his guide. He also did so in a way as to not try and prove or disprove anything, but simply to put things in a greater historical context. It is a long read, however, but overall worth it
I read this as a two-volume text some years ago, and purchased the combined edition later. Asimov presents a well-rounded look at the books of the old and new testament, without taking sides on the truth or fiction of each story. This should definitely be in the library of anyone with an interest in biblical analysis.
If you want to understand the underlying geography and anthropology of biblical stories--and maybe I'm weird that I do--this is the book for you. Somewhat dated, but still quite relevant. Asimov did his homework. This is an eye-opening study.
A very interesting look at how the bible was written, and the various texts and cultures which came together to create the religion of Christianity. It's very interesting - as a non-Christian - to read and gain more of an understanding of how this religion started.
