https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80275.The_Infernal_Machine_and_Other_Plays
Cocteau has aged badly. His surrealistic retelling of Oedipus Rex has aged badly. These plays show only that you don't need to go too far with Freud before you have gone too far.I would however be tempted to see the Infernal Machine in the theatre. Clever directors can sometimes breath life into dead horses.Lu en francais
On one hand I do feel as though these French re-doings of the Theban plays do go over my head somewhat. On the other, I really enjoy seeing a new spin put on the personalities of each character. This was very well done, and highly enjoyable.
Good:Orpheus, The Eiffel Tower Wedding PartyDecent:Bacchus
Re-reading The Oedipus Cycle of Sophocles before this work, which is a retelling of Oedipus Rex, I found that Cocteau's attempt truly paled in comparison, & neither was it nearly as good as Les Enfants Terribles by him which I read awhile ago.
There are some truly funny moments, such as the ghost of Laïus declaring that "les remparts étaient l'endroit le plus favorable aux apparitions des personnes mortes de mort violente, à cause des égouts".
I read this book to practice my French. I am a fan of Cocteau (I highly recommend his book Opium). In this new version of this old play, Cocteau uses twenty century's language to bring us closer to characters that otherwise would feel too foreign. The topic of course is difficult to digest but it is evident Cocteau worked on every detail of his new play to make it attractive to a new audience. I recommend it.
This is a compelling look at Oedipus from a different perspective; much more of Jocasta. I love the scenes with the Oedipus and the Sphinx. There is a sense of humor to this play as well, even though it deals with Greek tragedy.
Studied in 2004.Really enjoyed this one! One of the few books we read that year that actually resonated with me.We did a performance of the play. I had the role of Anubis. Was great fun!
Monologues are pure delight.
More groundbreaking and original but less devastating and humane than (what I've read so far of) Anouilh and Giraudoux's rewritings of Greek myths.
I was finally motivated to read this play which I had at home after seeing Cocteau's 1946 film 'La Belle et la Bete'.
I read the original version in French but am curious to know how exactly this translates in English.
At least in French it's very funny and absurd.
I found the first Act to be brilliant, the other three Acts were not bad but there were some words I didn't know and they were less entertaining.
In any case it is a short read and was entertaining.
Will probably read 'Les Enfants Terribles' next and rent his other films.
Avec humour et cynisme, Cocteau réécris et modernise le mythe d'Œdipe dans un style épuré et dynamique. Cette oeuvre très drôle et très agréable à lire explore bien les différents thèmes et aspects du mythe qu'avais déjà développé Sophocle dans sa pièce Oedipe Roi. Le tragique est subtile et "la machine infernale" se met en place progressivement. Il est certain que je lirai d'autres livres de l'auteur, qui m'a pleinement convaincu avec cette pièce.
The Infernal Machine – ** This is an unheroic telling of the Oedipus legend. It is a bit more light hearted, but more drawn out and rambling. Ultimately it pales in comparison to Sophocles’ version. Why would anyone want to try to re-tell a story that was so well told? The comparison is unavoidable. It was particularly disappointing (in comparison to the original) in the last act where Oedipus learns the truth. I was surprised that Cocteau even tried to present Oedipus’ discovery, knowing that regardless what he did it would pale next to Sophocles’ almost-perfect telling.
There's not much to really tell about "The Infernal Machine" - a retelling of "Oedipus the King", with the addition of a few new characters, including Anubis. Honestly, there might be something lost in the reading of this play as opposed to seeing it performed, as the text fell really flat to me. The exploration of the Sphinx is the only thing that really sticks out to me, and, at times, she can come across as nonsensical. Overall, it wasn't terrible, but it wasn't fantastic, either.
I love how playful Cocteau is - as seen in this book and "Beauty and the Beast." If you know the Oedipus story you'll think this is hilarious.
Cocteau revisitant le mythe d'Oedipe...
J'aurais mieux compris ceci si je l'ai vu au theatre, mais c'etais tres interessant quand meme.
Une fantastique réécriture du mythe d'Oedipe.
A funny and clever reinterpretation of the Oedipe myth.Several nice references to other famous play (like Hamlet)
Excellent.
What I thought... Well, it's surely a book who made me smile, but also, helped me to understand the story of <>.
Never have I read a greater poet--
Une réécriture brillante d'Oedipus Rex, teintée de surréalisme. Mais je me suis ennuyé à la lire...
The Infernal Machine, and Other Plays. by Jean Cocteau (1964)
i'm not going to finish this book. the infernal machine and orpheus were good. the wedding at the eiffel tower was not, and i can't get into arthur or bacchus.
for me, it was all about the Infernal Machine. An old story retold time and time throughout the ages, but i loved the surrealness of Cocteau's interpretation. Mmmmm.
Read this in high-school. I loved Cocteau then and still love to read great quotations from his works.
I remember loving this book in high school
Je m'y suis vue. Que j'aime cette tragédie... Inspiré de Sophocle, Cocteau nous rappelle l'humanité d'Œdipe, de Jocaste et de la petite Antigone.Admirable
