https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13312527-the-opportunist
I glanced over the reviews, and after seeing a sea of shouty capitals and exclamation points, I thought, she’s right, I need to read this!I am so glad I did!First off, the descriptive turn of phrases in this book made me smile.
I loved her and I felt like I understood her and her issues.
Wow, I think I love this man.
Some of the scenes between Caleb and Olivia will be staying with me for a very long time, the good ones and the bad ones.I can’t say that I loved how it ended, but I understand it…sort of.
I told the truth.
Think of every single emotion you could possibly ever feel and then imagine feeling them all at once!!
Hell, this entire review could be written in shouty capitals!!This book metamorphosed my entire existence!
More than twenty-four hours post reading this life altering book and I'm still thinking about it more than a teenage boy thinks about sex!I hated how everything turned out, but I loved how I hated it.
The Opportunist is like every single emotional roller coaster coming together to make one gigantic ride!
This book has made me psychotic and I love every single minute!!
Okay, BREATHE!BOOK-tunes available http://toughcriticbookreviews.blogspo...
Reading this book is like watching a train wreck - you know what's coming and but you're absolutely unable to look away.Ok. Where to start?
But she was unable to admit it and the power he had over her heart terrified her so even though it went against everything she wanted deep down, she walked away.Three years later, she finds out that Caleb, the man she still loves and who still owns her heart, has lost his memory in an accident and she sees this as the perfect opportunity to try and start over.
I thought they were talking about my book so I checked it out, NOPE, they were discussing a different Caleb and Olivia.
Olivia put it right out there.I love that Caleb wasn't perfect.
NONE of Tarryn's characters are perfect - they are human.There's been some talk about the ending and let me put my two cents in: This story ended exactly as it should.
This is not a book about two people falling in and out of love before they 'get it right'.
It has blown me away!I don't want to give too much away, but will say that it is an unconventional second-chance love story.
Caleb is suffering from amnesia, following a car accident, and doesn't remember the way she broke his heart.Olivia isn't your typical heroine in that it is her imperfections that often make her endearing as a reader.
She wants Caleb and is willing to use any means necessary to get him, even if she knows that their time together is short-lived.
Both women were willing to go to some pretty drastic lengths to hang on to Caleb.Despite her stalker tendencies and manipulative actions, I found myself begrudgingly loving Olivia.
"You can only give your heart away once; after that, everything else will chase your first love."  ~ Love.Lies. More love.More lies.  This book was AMAZING and UNPUTDOWNABLE but after finishing it I just felt emotionally EXHAUSTED. From the moment I started reading The Opportunist, it sucked me right in. I was unable to put it down and thank God I was on vacation so I was able to finish it in one day. The Opportunist is a story about love mixed with heartbreak and deceit. It is about the choic
Well, that is for you to find out by reading this captivating and emotional story...--------------------------------------------------Caleb - I loved him (although at times he was a sneaky bastard too) -
What I didn't get though (view spoiler)[is why he would suddenly consider cheating on her (if he loved her so much) without confronting her first with the fact that he wanted more in their relationship.
How she manipulated her way into Caleb's life is disgusting and I really hope she will finally get what she deserves somewhere in the next part of this series.
They kind of make me want to kiss them until they smile."~~~"There is more to loving someone than just making yourself happy.
"Are you a bad person, Olivia?""Yes," I say easily.  This book was almost impossible to rate. My mind literally feels like it has been torn in half over this book - and particularly torn in half over my opinion of the main character. There are a number of things you should probably know.1) The writing. The writing in The Opportunist is a cut above many of the other New Adult books I've read. It's compulsively readable and extremely entertaining, to the point where I finished this novel in a
My mind literally feels like it has been torn in half over this book - and particularly torn in half over my opinion of the main character.
A past Olivia falls in love with Caleb and proceeds to ruin the relationship with her own manipulative, self-destructive personality.
But I won't go into spoilers, so I will say that I liked him a lot more than many NA love interests.
Despite my thoughts and feelings being all over while reading this, it had enough of an impact that I know I want to pick up the next book.
In the end if you can stand by your Choices and live with them be thy great or small is up to you.In The Opportunist Olivia runs into the love of her life Caleb Drake at a music store.
But Leah Caleb's girlfriend from before the accident decides she will not give up on their love easily.
His choices played a big part in the books outcome.Cammie was hilarious she was Olivia's trusty sidekick to the very end.Leah was a surprise.
REPEAT, NOT HOLD BACK!My thoughts on the characters and the choices they made.Olivia was bold, calculating and ruthless when it came to getting her way and seeking revenge.
★★★★★! Love Me With Lies, book 1 of 3! The epic and very dysfunctional love saga of Caleb & Olivia taking you on a roller-coaster of emotions!   “He will remember eventually and this whole charade will come crashing down around me like a bad game of Jenga. Until then, I have him back and I am going to hold onto that for as long as I can.”   The Love Me With Lies series is Caleb Drake’s and Olivia Kaspen’s whirlwind saga spanning over a decade filled with love, joy, angst, anger, frustration
The epic and very dysfunctional love saga of Caleb & Olivia taking you on a roller-coaster of emotions!
The Love Me With Lies series is Caleb Drake’s and Olivia Kaspen’s whirlwind saga spanning over a decade filled with love, joy, angst, anger, frustration, but mostly a profound sadness for all the could-have-beens.
Their love, in all its dysfunction and deception, is so great it blurs the line between right and wrong, overcomes trial and tribulation with hopes of transcending time!Books in Love Me With Lies series should be read in order and together:The Opportunist (book 1)Dirty Red (book 2)Thief (book 3)My dear friend Ratherread shared with me that the author came up with the concept for the book while sitting at a coffee shop and thinking that if her ex came in with amnesia she would lie to win him back….And so The Opportunist (book 1) opens up...
Just know this: Caleb and Olivia share a love like no other.
You will be taken on one hell of a psychological ride the entire time reading The Opportunist.This book just goes to show that all it takes is one wrong move and your life will be irrevocably changed forever.
If you want and love angst, then read this book.
The Opportunist is the kind of book you love to hate- and I mean that in the nicest way possible.
Because honestly, I did not like the ending, but then again, I think that's why I loved the book so much.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Can I be your favorite girl?”“You already are, Duchess.” Dear Tarryn Fisher: It doesn’t have to be a snowman. Really, it doesn’t. We can just sit around and you can remind me that there are people who are even more f*&^ed up than I am while I braid your hair.WARNING: If you like your romance fluffy with a HEA you best get to steppin’. However, if you are like me and like your “romance” with a twist of obsession and zero squicky s
When Caleb set his sights on Olivia, she figured it was simply to be another notch on his bedpost, but a friendly wager led to one date .
Mitchell and I love unhealthy weirdies!Fast-forward to the present where Olivia and Caleb’s paths cross once again.
Momma likey.The story does the wibbly wobbly from past to present in order to fill in the missing details.
You know, minor things like current fiancés.And then?
However, it was an open ending that I could have been satisfied leaving as is had I not become totally invested in hearing “Big Red’s” story come Part 2.
I finished your book this morning, after having started it last night...
And even then, I was pissed that I slept when I could have been finishing this story.This story HURTS.
I'm sort of a jumbled mess of thoughts and emotions and even though I know what I FEEL about this book, i'm not sure how to actually SAY it.
This book is manipulative.
This book is messy.
We lose things that matter.
No matter how much I want them to be.
This book's truth hurts my heart.
And when you read it (because really, how can you NOT?!?!) it will hurt yours too.
One of the most addicting books I've read! Be prepared, you will not be able to put this down! I think that after the first time you give your heart away, you never get it back. The rest of your life is just you pretending that you still have a heart. After reading a review of The Opportunist a while back I had planned on staying far away from this story. It sounded like drama and frustration, and I have little patience for either. But after my trusted friend Arlene badgered encouraged me to rea
After reading a review of The Opportunist a while back I had planned on staying far away from this story.
Initially, Olivia plans on just walking away and leaving things well enough alone, but she runs into Caleb a second time, and he wants to see her.
We get this story in Olivia’s POV, and she is one passionate and obsessive character when it comes to life, but especially when it comes to Caleb.
My heart and head still hurt, and even though it’s days past since I’ve read it, I continually think about this story.
A ver... este libro fue un drama total. Parece de esas novelas de tv llenas de problemas, mentiras, traiciones y todo lo malo que se te pueda ocurrir.La parte cuerda de mí. Me exige que no lea más esta serie.Pero yo también soy masoquista. Y de cuerda ahora mismo tengo más bien poco, así que lo que no puedo esperar a hacer es leer la continuación... ¡YA! Bien, en esta historia tenemos a una protagonista más bitch que nadie, una villana que es una víbora venenosa bien grande y un prota cañón, per
Bien, en esta historia tenemos a una protagonista más bitch que nadie, una villana que es una víbora venenosa bien grande y un prota cañón, pero súper manipulador.
Es una de las personas más dañadas emocionalmente que he leído en TODA mi vida...
bueno, a ella no la conocemos tan a fondo en este primer libro, pero estoy segura que es una víbora venenosa como la que más, supongo que es igual de manipuladora que Olivia.
Pero a pesar de que yo sé todo eso, no puedo de evitar tener la sensación de que falta mucho más por conocer.
"From approximately twelve hours of knowing you, I have decided that I will never forget you, even if we never speak another word to each other. You leave a very strong impression. I can only imagine how that poor bastard feels after so many years of keeping company with you."  3.5 stars. That one quote sums up Olivia in a nutshell. Btw...I really liked Noah, the guy who stated the above. It's too bad we didn't meet him until the end of the book. He was quite lovely.This book is not about the
He was quite lovely.This book is not about the lovable Noah, however (why do I get the feeling that he's going to be playing the same role of Loring in How to Kill a Rock Star?).
Don't worry, I didn't actually spoil anything there...there's enough back and forth that you never really know what's going on with these two.At this stage of my reading life (yes, I go through stages), I am kinda-sorta over drama books.
This is probably why I put off reading The Opportunist for a while...I knew that I'd have to mentally be in a place to handle some drama.How did the book work for me?It was entertaining.
I liked this book, but not as much as everyone else (?).
But nevertheless, it was GOOD!I really liked Olivia.
And I really liked Caleb, although (view spoiler)[I KNEW FROM THE BEGINNING THAT HE WAS LYING!
I knew he didn't lose his memory!
And I wasn't spoiled, I just KNEW.
I felt very smug when the big revelation came, I was like: HA!
I EFFING KNEW IT!
(hide spoiler)].
Also, I want to say that this book was ADDICTIVE.
I couldn't stop reading.I wasn't sure about reading Dirty Red because I hate Leah, but I reaaaally want to read Thief, so I must continue, haha!
4.5 Stars!When three of my GR friends were so emotionally drained after reading this book and couldn't rate it, or couldn't even review right away, I had to get to the bottom of it...immediately!
Without giving too much away, this story is about way more than just the love between two obvious soulmates.
The story began in the present, but took you to the past so many times; I was grateful that I committed to reading this quickly as it's not a book you can leave for a stretch of time and come back to without confusion.
Sure, Ms. Fisher intended a story about flawed characters specifically about a ruthlessly manipulative woman named Olivia who would do anything for the love of her life; the playing womanizing “amnesia” diagnosed Caleb.
Olivia being the narrator of the story confesses her actions which she perfectly knows are wicked and yet does them anyway drawing out from me countless number of eye rolls and headaches.
On top of those that I mentioned, there is this one character- Noah whose part in the story was very little and yet most significant.
What kind of ending do characters like Olivia and Caleb deserve?
A story of love, deceit and obsession.
A word that sums up, Olivia and Caleb's relationship.
They're story is addictive, frustrating but utterly unputdownable!!!Olivia is a broken girl hiding behind a tough facade.
When she meets Caleb, it's blown to pieces.
But she pushes him away, because she's learnt that letting someone into your heart can lead to pain, because when they eventually leave, you're left alone.
So protects herself by not letting anyone in.What she didn't count on is jealousy, an emotion that turns her into someone she doesn't recognise.
A thoroughly enjoyable read filled with drama, angst and characters you love to hate!5 Stars!!!
'You can only give your heart away once; after that, everything else will chase your first love.'Wow, what to say about this book?
I absolutely loved this book and also hated it at times.
Olivia was flawed and made many mistakes, there were times I just wanted to scream at her, yet I still really liked her and rooted for her.
Caleb Drake...
from the very first time i met him in the book I instantly loved him!
Looking forward to the next book and here's to hoping I am not such an emotional wreck reading it!
I am Olivia Kaspen, and if I love something I rip it from my life. Not intentionally…not unintentionally either. When I first read the blurb, I wasn’t 100% sure that I wanted to read this. The whole premise is fascinating but I had already prejudged and tried Olivia and found her wanting before even giving it a chance. She’s not your regular every day heroine. In fact, how do you come to terms with the fact that the heroine of your novel is actually also the villain of the piece, the Cruella De
In fact, how do you come to terms with the fact that the heroine of your novel is actually also the villain of the piece, the Cruella DeVille style antagonist of the story?The way Olivia conducts herself, her bitter and twisted inner monologue all makes for fairly uncomfortable reading.
She’s far from perfect, more deeply flawed than most book heroines, but, in the end, she finally learns from the errors of the past and makes some fairly noble and selfless decisions and I ultimately came full circle and developed a deep affection for her.Caleb – well I just kind of loved him right from the get-go.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest💙 I read this for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2018 Reading Challenge, for the category of: Second Chance Romance. For more info on this challenge, click here. 💙A lot of my fellow romance-lovers enjoy cute, fluffy romances that make them smile. Not me - I like my romance novels to make me feel like I've been sucker-punched in the solar plexus half a dozen times before throwing me out on my ass in the middle of a busy sidewalk
That's why I chose THE OPPORTUNIST as my "second chance romance"; when it comes to messed-up romance novels, Tarryn Fisher invariably delivers.Our main couple, Olivia and Caleb, are epic trash people, and this is their saga of dumpster-worthy decisions.
This format is used to conceal information from the reader, because in the current story, Caleb, now with a different girlfriend, has amnesia, and Olivia, schemer that she is, takes advantage of his delicate condition in order to worm her way back into his heart a second time.
I think it works because she doesn't try to apologize for being over-the-top or writing trash people characters.
Mental, Psychotic, CUCKOOo_o I found myself with my eyes wide a time or two while reading this.I am stuck between hating and loving this book.
I really liked the weirdly dark intense manipulating drama, but at times it was just so much that it was unbelievable.
She wasn't very likable, but I still found myself siding with her at times.
To know this book is part of her life makes it so much more wonderful.
It was very unique, I like the dark side sometimes and she definitely delivered on that.Life always keeps moving, even if it has to drag you along, kicking and screaming.
CURRENTLY ON SALE! http://amzn.to/2zcWzMJ   "You are the only woman I know how to love. The only woman I want to love.”  I would like to start my review with a question: Why is everyone in this book such an asshole?My next question: Why did I love them anyway? Does loving a bunch of assholes make me an asshole?I don't think I've ever read a book before where I hated every single main character. Yes, you read that right. I hate them all. Including Caleb. BUT (before you kill me) I will say I also
I would like to start my review with a question: Why is everyone in this book such an asshole?My next question: Why did I love them anyway?
Does loving a bunch of assholes make me an asshole?I don't think I've ever read a book before where I hated every single main character.
BUT (before you kill me) I will say I also have never read a book where as much hate as I had, I LOVED them just as much.
I seriously fell in love with this and can't wait to dive into the rest of the series!!The Opportunist (Love Me With Lies Book 1) | http://amzn.to/2zcWzMJ (CURRENTLY ON SALE!)
You REALLY, REALLY need to read this if you haven't already!Caleb and Olivia, they make me want to scream at the top of my lungs.
I thought Caleb could do no wrong and then he did and I thought I would end the book hating Olivia but I loved her.Caleb is a romantic, slightly alpha male with a British accent.
Olivia is a bruised soul; she really lacks the capacity to let herself feel and be in love.
They are soul mates and I cannot imagine them ever being truly happy without each other.And Leah, at this point, I want to pull you by your red hair and make you confess to all the things you have done to manipulate fate!
Throughout this book I kept repeating one line over and over again...  Ok so it was actually  OH HELL NO!  but I liked this gif lol What a psychological mind fuck of a book!  IT WAS FUCKING AWESOME! I devoured it... Could not get enough of it, when I wasn't reading I was obsessing about when I could read next! I loved the past and pretense that this book had, I loved the characters. I hated the characters. I hated myself for loving then hating them. Ugh it's just AMAZING. I don't think I can wri
Throughout this book I kept repeating one line over and over again...
but I liked this gif lol What a psychological mind fuck of a book!
IT WAS FUCKING AWESOME!
I loved the past and pretense that this book had, I loved the characters.
I hated the characters.
I don't think I can write a proper review without giving too much away but seriously if you are looking for a book that will suck you dry of every emotion possible THIS IS FOR YOU!
I also hated the ending...
Which has made me want to read the next book  RIGHT THIS MINUTE!!
And then I started liking her narration which was really beautiful for such a wicked girl - ahem,  Desperately wicked  :D And then I fell in love with this book when Caleb was introduced.
And Olivia's and Caleb's love was really perfect though they both messed it up.
The roller coaster was coming to an end and I didn't want it to end because I really loved these two characters a lot, Olivia and Caleb.
Olivia didn't want to get hurt so she pushed people away not thinking how it might affect her later on.
Olivia and Caleb's relationship ended very badly...Caleb: "You will remember every day for the rest of your life because I was the one and you threw me away."Olivia has never gotten over him so instead of being honest and explaining that she is his ex girlfriend and reminding Caleb that he hates her for terrible things she did in the past; she acts like a stranger and pretends the encounter in the music shop is their first meeting.
(view spoiler)[What she did to Jessica and Caleb was beyond awful :( (hide spoiler)] But by the end of the book, I felt like she matured and was starting to see that she needed to stop lying and stop hurting the people she cares about.Olivia: "I have finally accepted that there are consequences to every action.
Mine hit the minute I finished reading the book.
I read that the denial in grief can weeks to get over....
3. Anger and BargainingI'm still going through this....I want to lash out at something.
But then I realize "Oh crap, it's just a book." But then I think..
It's not anger over Olivia.
And when I think about book 2.
I hope the first scene starts out with her leaving Neiman Marcus and getting hit by a cab...
Scenes with Caleb and Olivia are ahhh-mazing!
Looks completely like Olivia.
Freakishly good hair and all...Okay, so I didn't have ALL 7 stages of grief.
