https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1309238.A_House_in_Bali
Life in Bali when Kuta and Ubud were a tiny villages and Den Pasar was a small town.The author never mentions in the book that he was married at the time at that his then-wife bankrolled his grand lifestyle--paying for homes, gamelans, festivals, etc.
I liked A House in Bali so well that I feel aimless having finished it. It's exactly what I wanted from a book: entertainment, an easy read, and something to address my interest in Balinese music. McPhee's descriptive talent is very satisfying. Will recommend it to members of my local gamelan club.
I read this book while commuting on the local BART train...I am instantly transported away to a lost in time colonial Bali of the early 1930's with the sounds of the gamelan and imagery of the legong dancers.It makes me pine for a chance to visit Bali now.
Lyrical prose, work of genius. Composer Colin McPhee, enchanted by Bali, writes about the decade he spent studying its music and culture, and enjoying the exotic beauty of the island. A must-read.
These days many travel books are mostly about the author - their ideas, emotions, hopes, tragedies and anything else they went through while travelling or staying in the place in question.
This book is refreshingly different!
Colin McPhee writes about Bali, its music and people and does so with great sympathy and a kind sense of humour.The book is deliciously slow, there are no major daily worries and occasionally you come across gems from a totally different era of life and travel - no way not to love it when someone goes camping with a tent and brings a gramophone and discs.
While certainly interesting to learn about the music and culture of a bygone Bali, and there are a number of memorable bits and fascinating morsels, I found the narrative less than captivating. For me personally at least, it was really meandering. I had trouble keeping the characters straight. I wasn’t sure what the purpose of the book was. Plus the book seems scanned into text, with some weird errors and random italics. Sometimes fascinating, but I got tired of it unfortunately.
Much more accessible than his big academic book on Balinese music, this is an intimate memoir of his years in Bali back when it seemed much more exotic and far away. A wonderful classic of travel literature. And a portrait of the island at a time when it was much more unspoiled by icky western influences.
Interesting if you are into music and foreign cultures. Through his fascination with music, the author reveals a lot about life in Bali in the 1930s. I enjoyed especially since I'll be visiting Bali ,again, for the second time, in a month or so. It really is a unique and beautiful place, and many of the things that made it special nearly a century ago remain today (albeit a bit modernized).
Enchanting look at a bygone Bali. McPhee was clearly in love with the place, and focused on the images and memories of that love.
A wonderful insight into how Bali was in the 1930s.
I have visited Bali several times and often wondered about the culture and the people.
Sometimes it is difficult to follow as the author meets and works with a lot of people who's names are difficult to recall as they come and go in the story.
Colin McPhee used his skills to record the history of traditional Gamelan music and through this we see his love and appreciation of the culture and the people.
I found it amazing that his wife who must have been a huge presence during this time has been made to disappear.
From the moment he describes an Indonesian variation on a slushy as "one of the hilariously colored ices of the tropics" i was helplessly in love with his narrative.For a long time this was out of print and the father of my first child earned huge points by finding an out of print copy for me early on in our relationship.
Now "A House in Bali" is available again and I'm sure this book is in the running for books I have given the most copies of as gifts.
McPhee makes Bali sound like the kind of dream world that you wish real life could be like ...
it is real life, for him.

I got this for my trip to Indonesia and read it a bit while in Bali. I tried to finish it once I returned home but found it weighed down with details about music and locals that just did not keep my interest. It was a good pick for anyone traveling to Bali as it describes the island as it once was long ago.
A snapshot in time of the author living for several years on Bali at two different times in the 1930s. His observations of living on Bali and the people he encountered is beautifully written. His wife was with him during this trips, but he makes absolutely no mention of her. In my mind that makes his story less than complete.
This is a great portrait of Bali in the early 20th century. I've read it before but a second reading reminded me of a Bali past and all the changes that have taken place. It also reminded me of the resilience of the Balinese culture. It is worth a read if you love Bali.
Saffron 2017
Although the book was written 70 years ago it really gives one an insight to life in Bali and as Colin McPhee was a musician, the gamelan music is fully explained.
Here is an enchanting moment from very early in the book: ...a new sound rose in the sky, high up, shrill and tremulous, sweeter than anything I had heard that day.
I was left wondering where his money came from - it's not mentioned in the book at all, but some of the other reviews and comments in Goodreads indicate that his wife had family money (the wife never even appears in the book).This passage about how gamelan music is composed had special meaning to me, as we are playing a composition (perhaps "arrangement" is a better word for Westerners) by famous musician I Ketut Gede Asnawa.
So (for instance) there are several lovely expositions on how to properly build a Balinese house, but they're told in terms of his friendships and quarrels with various locals.The centerpiece of the book is the descriptions of music and musical culture; McPhee's studies in Bali were central to teaching North Americans about Balinese music.
I'd love to experience a version of this book that came combined with musical samples, that'd be amazing.The other centerpiece of this book is the young dancing boy Sampih.
There's film online of Sampih dancing shot by McPhee; he's an amazing dancer.
I came across some stunning photos taken by this author in a museum in Ubud, so I decided to buy his book.
I think the perfect time to read it is just after arriving in Bali, when you've had some exposure to Balinese culture and want to understand it more.One thing that I dislike about this book is the horrid quality of the photo reproductions.
Unfortunately most of McPhee's stunning photos don't seem to be available online, so to see them properly you'll have to trek to Neka Art Museum in Ubud!
A musician travels to Bali to study that haunting but bright music and stays to build a house there. I enjoyed reading this while in Bali. It's a quiet book and funny in parts, having traveled there and having seen the personalities. At least in the early part of the 1900's, the Balinese were very superstitious (leyaks haunting the houses at nights, circling in the fields holding circles of lights). However, the author also expressed similar frustrations as I experienced while traveling there.
Excellent book to read if visiting Bali and have an interested in gamelan. Perfect way to also experience life and passion of the author even those his stay and contact not more than a decade. It had an impact on outside works on this very unusual music. Marvelous intro book for a visit to Bali also.
An interesting read about being in Bali way back before there were many westerners on it. I found it mostly interesting because by modern standards the book hides at least as much as it reveals: you wouldn't know from the book that he was there with his wife and that his friends included other western anthropologists.
I loved the multi-sensory descriptions and unique ways of perceiving the world.
Another easy read introducing Balinese history and culture. Not as relatable as Fragrant rice but better written.
A book written in the 1940's about the music and dance of Bali in the 1930s by an American musicologist. A bit esoteric but hopefully a good preparation for the trip.
Definitely encouraged me to learn more about the gamelan and appreciate how music and dance is central to Balinese history. Choppy writing.
