https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56652.The_Dream_Merchants
The Encyclopedia Brittanica has the following to say about Mr Robbins,'Orphaned at birth, Robbins was placed in a Roman Catholic orphanage and was given the name Francis Kane.
At the age of 19, he began speculating on crop futures; he became a millionaire the following year but lost his fortune after speculating unsuccessfully in sugar.
After filing for bankruptcy, Robbins took a job with Universal Pictures.' So, he not only wrote rags-to-riches stories - he actually lived one.
But there is a caveat - it seems that Mr Robbins was a bit of an embellisher so who actually knows?
Very readable book. I have enjoyed a lot reading this awesome book. Actually the reading of this book is like analyzing an entire episode of the life story of Hollywood. I always wonder how this author found out so many facts about film industry. Anyway I am so glad he did.

Another fine Robbins book from his early phase,about the movie industry and its pioneers.Robbins himself was part of early Hollywood,very entertaining.
Decent enough read with a good story.
Robbins had no trouble getting the basics for the novels background, as he worked for most of the 1940s and into the 1950s as a budget analyst at Universal (which became Universal-International in the late 1940s).It's been over 40 years since I read THE DREAM MERCHANTS in its entirety - it doesn't appear in a book log I kept from January 1972 into 1976, so it's pretty certain I read it during my 'first' Harold Robbins phase, sometime around 1970 or so.
I remember the novel bore little relation to the film, as the setting and character were changed to fit the Elvis persona.
With that in mind, and loving books about the film industry, I decided to pick up his novel The Dream Merchants.
And after reading it, I can see why so many of Robbins’s books were filmed.
So, The Dream Merchants is a very satisfying as a tale of Hollywood.
It certainly doesn’t rank with some of the classic Hollywood novels, but it is satisfying and a rewarding read.
Robbins was one of the best selling authors of my childhood, a name I heard often while I was growing up, so I thought it was time I read one of his novels and formed an opinion for myself.
I read it in the context of the self-publishing industry just being born in our era, which was interesting, but at the end when Robbins piously deals out violent rape to a character because, gosh darn it, she's just a damn irritating floozy constantly getting in the protagonist's way.
. .yeah, that was the last I'll be reading of THIS muckraker.
The only reason I read this novel was because it was about the film industry. There are all the expected stereotypes and enough sizzle to satisfy everyone. Unfortunately, it is a one-dimensional story with characters we do not care about.
Hardback, Copyright 1949. The first book I read in my father's library, and it ruined me for a few upcoming duds. I anticipated everything would be fabulous! I wore out the dust cover, so in the future I started taking them off.
This is a book I picked up and put down over several months in college. I jumped readily into the world of film and watched the reel spin the story of movies from the very beginning. Entertaining, but not page-turning.
A fun, easy read about the beginning of Hollywood. There was a real feel of Hollywood 'insider' in the book that I've since learned comes from the author having worked at Universal stories. Lots of egos, lots of politics and a pretty horrific love story in the background.
I loved the way the book gave a glimpse of how the business of making movies came about and how hollywood was created. Although a very fictitious account of how things were...the book does take you to an era where you start understanding a lot of what happens today...
Nice novel...not really a "must read" though....
fun, trashy book--great beach read
isbn,original
The book is about Hollywood movie industry of a bygone era..
Im confused. I thought Terry Prattchett wrote this?! LOL.
Good book.
It is part of the Hollywood trilogy that Harold Robbins wrote. This is the follow-up to The carpetbaggers. Read it long time ago and I remember absolutely loving it at that time.
Its a good book and very revealing about how Hollywood evolved in its initial years.
What a wonderful, captivating novel about the early film industry. And Robbins wrote it so clearly and simply. I always felt like I was in the room seeing the people.
Not sure why I went back to it after some forty years except the title has always appealed to me as a succinct summation of the movie industry in a pejorative way.
Conspicuously missing is the nitty gritty of the movie-making industry which I thought was in my first time read.
Like everyone living I've been to my share of movies but have given up on going to the cinema years ago, preferring my flat screen and the sofa.
Nonetheless, I'm glad I re-read it and I'm glad it's over.
Very interesting and amusing book, I really enjoyed it. Although the end was a little hastily finished and it has several flaws in continuity and logic, but generally for recommendation.
Who is Harold RobbinsI was talking to an elderly friend who you must read this book. I'm now gripped by Harold Robbins. Brilliant.
