https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/241469.It_s_a_Battlefield
The story focuses on the efforts of the Assistant Commissioner to write a report and make a recommendation to the Home Secretary about whether the death sentence handed to Drover should be reprieved.
In the course of the investigation by the Assistant Commissioner, it becomes clear that there is a little more to the background of the conviction and that the sentencing may have been influenced by the fact that Drover’s is a communist.
It’s an interesting book because Greene quite overtly talks about politics and social injustice in Britain (the story is set in London).
An aging Assistant Commissioner, recently returned from the East, has been asked by a Minister to report to him on the pulse of the people; this has nothing to do with sentiment, or justice, he's up for reelection, and he wants to know if the workers will riot if the workman is hanged, or will they feel the Minister is weak if he is reprieved.
With this kind of justice, is it better for Jim to hang, and free her, or to live on in prison, knowing that his beloved will betray him, again and again?
إنها ساحة معركة جراهام جرين من جديد، كنت قد قرأت له (حفلة القنبلة) قبل عام أو عامين، ومنذ ذلك الحين اقتنصت كل ما وجدته أمامي من كتبه – ما ترجم منها وما لم يترجم -، في هذه الرواية المبكرة يتناول جرين الأحداث والشخصيات التي تتمحور حول شنق شيوعي قام بطعن رجل شرطة هاجم زوجته، الظلال السياسية والعاطفية التي يلقيها الحكم واقتراب موعد التنفيذ على الرفاق في الحزب، والسياسيين، وزوجة الرجل وأخيه اللذان يرتبطان بعلاقة عاطفية، رواية سياسية عظيمة ونافذة.
My least favorite Graham Greene so far, but even a bad Graham Greene book is better than most....
For me the most vivid portrait is of Jim's brother, Conrad, a factory clerk isolated from his colleagues by his white-collar job, and torn between his love for Jim and his hidden passion for Jim's wife, the waif-like Milly.
As with the revolutionary Dr Czinner in 'Stamboul Train', idealism is compromised and wrecked by a host of confusing rival demands.Paul O'Prey's 'A Reader's Guide to Graham Greene' says the book was strongly influenced by Joseph Conrad's 'The Secret Agent' - and he points out that this is signalled within the novel, as it is mentioned that Conrad was called after 'a Polish sailor', ie the writer.
I've really enjoyed some of Greene's other novels.
But this seemed to be a dry shell full of miserable characters.
The only happiness found by the end of the story is a sort of sad, laughable satisfaction with a certain aspect of one's job.
I'm not saying books need happy endings, but why is this novel so jam-packed with dysfunction?
In all fairness, it is an interesting demonstration of how the most unlikely characters can all be connected by a single common acquaintance.
But I was generally distracted from that by all bleakness they also had in common.
One character labours under the unlikely name of Mr Surrogate, which seems more like a Waugh or Dickens moniker than a Greene one; another is named Conrad after a seaman who used to lodge with his family, and the sense of London as one of the dark places of the Earth definitely comes through here.
It's a city of crabbed lives, anxiety, failure to communicate; a place dominated by that horrible strain of the British character which fears happiness will always draw punishment.
Greene also tackles love and hate and the interplay between these two emotions; a theme that he covers more extensively (and successfully) in his best book, The End of the Affair.
But 300 pages (or in this case 225 pages) does not allow for a multitude of characters, which is the main issue with It’s a Battlefield.The vast portion of life that Greene attempts to cover in this book required the use of many characters.
In terms of an entire body of work, rather than a particular stand-out novel, he is probably one of my favourite British authors.
Whilst some authors produce a dazzling fully-formed debut, though, Greene strikes me as someone who spent a number of years learning his trade and slowly developing into the writer he would become, finally hitting a run of truly impressive form in the late 40s which continued until somewhere after The Honorary Consul.
Still, when you've read and enjoyed the majority of a writer's work, it's exciting to stumble across one that you missed.Only I hadn't missed it.
This battlefield comes equipped with judicial and political wrangling, bacon, melancholy, and extreme Britishness. Mmm, bacon.
The story follows Caroline Bury and others as they try to prevent a London bus driver named Jim Drover from hanging.Graham Greene described the book as his 'first overtly political novel'.
Instead, Greene claimed its theme is 'the injustice of man's justice'.The Assistant Commissioner, perhaps the story's primary character, questions a justice system which allowed a company director convicted of income tax fraud to repay his debt at "twelve shillings in the pound to save [him] from bankruptcy, to save him from a nervous breakdown." In comparison "men who stole a little jewellery from a rich man's house" might go to gaol for five years, because laws, he says, are made to protect property.The book also conjures up the experiences of working class females in a matchbox factory.
I don’t think it’s ever safe to say what you think an author was “really thinking," but what I liked here was the portrayal of a “battlefield” of characters, some in conflict with one another, but mostly each fighting an inner conflict.The plot centers on a bus driver, Jim Drover, who, while protecting his wife during a riot, has killed a policeman.
It's London, but even with the mention of Trafslfar Square and Piccadilly Circus, Greene isn't guiding the reader through a sense of place, and this is unusual.
Greene's sense of Britain's class system is, perhaps, never better than in IT'S A BATTLEFIELD.
He has other novels in which he makes short work of a plot thread or a character, but one doesn't sense that he's not bothered to complete those brief threads and character studies.
On the whole, though, this is a well-realized book with a lot to say about its era.
I'd be interested in anybody else's views on this book, because it didn't quite do it for me. The plot looks great, but somehow it seems surprisingly dated. I suspect that the interchanging of characters from one paragraph to the next, and with no obvious protagonist was in vogue at the time. But I've always thought that the beauty of Greene's work is his ability to penetrate the human condition and its flaws by the careful study of his leads. Without this, the book lost a lot, and I wouldn't recommend it.
I guess early Graham Greene is all woke panoramas, all the time; this follow up to "Orient Express" is a strange little novel that makes its point forcefully (we're all fighting our own insular little battles on a larger battlefield where the rules are set by the rich and privileged) but leaves a lot of characters hanging and doesn't have a ton of catharsis.
Interesting though not particularly easy read.
***.Set in London in the 1930s, this novel depicts the conditions of labor and industry in England as the workers begin to unite and form parties linked with Communism.
The event that sparks things off occurs at a rally at Hyde Park Corner, where a policeman is stabbed by a man who believed that the policeman was about to his wife with a truncheon.
After the man is arrested, his co-workers rally around to try and see that he receives justice in his case.
'It's a Battlefield' is a small but tense drama set in London's inter-war period.
It paints a bleak version of society that chews through individuals who act against their own ideals and principles for the benefit of a system they don't really believe in.
The story center's around a man who killed a police office during a riot to protect his wife, but his character never plays any real role in the story, instead focusing on the complicated ways in which the other players dance around him.
Apparently an early work by the author, it represents an early effort of Graham Greene to explore the dark corners of modern society and our interpretation of justice.
While undeniably Greene in its dark exploration of the human condition, an early one that's probably only worth seeking out in context of his growth as a writer. Set in between-WW England, a man kills a policeman while defending his wife from brutality during a riot and, because he happens to be a communist, his fate lies entirely in the hands of political self-interest. It touches upon many of his themes, however the story itself does not develop beyond the repercussions over the course of a few days for a small handful of family and functionaries involved.
I LOVE Graham Greene, but this one was a struggle to get through. I was surprised and disappointed at this.His usual habit of introspection in his characters seemed to overtake the story, with too much explanation of motive and history and development and hardly any actual events occurring. I found that it dragged on, and took me days to finish, whereas I would normally get through any of his novels (or entertainments) in a maximum of two.
A darker novel written in a more complex prose than his later works. I like Greene's work and love many of his books - I could not say that I love this one, but it sticks the great challenges of sacrifice, self-worth and betrayal centre-stage and as with so much of his work, forces the reader to examine their own values.
Interesting rewriting of Conrad's The Secret Agent, though ultimately, for me, less affecting because Conrad's coruscating irony is replaced by Greene's disgust. Greene doesn't quite seem as in command of his tone as he is in a later work like Brighton Rock. It's a weird, grumpy little book, and I like that about it, but it hasn't stayed with me.
- loved the style. Devoid of any unnecessary words but still able of wonderful descriptions and to convey the atmosphere of the time.- desperate characters. So human, lost in their own selves and worlds. Trying to connect, to find meaning.- not all that easy to read but I enjoyed it.
Probably my least favourite GG novel, of those I have read.Set in pre WWII London, with fear of Communism - I guess my knowledge of the background history is a bit sketchy. I didn't really identify with any of the characters the way I have come to expect with a GG novel.
Well, it's Graham Greene. Albeit, early Graham Greene, and it shows in that this is a somewhat rough novel. I had troubles following the narrative--the writing is a little stilted at times. But then again, it is Graham Greene, and therefore still a very good and worthy read.
I generally enjoyed the story--some of it didn't make total sense and the ultimate effect is kind of depressing. This includes about what you'd expect in a Greene novel: political movements, untrustworthy characters, and a patina of humor--most of it macabre in this instance.
An early Greene with a political bent. The characters all have some issues.
Una novela prescindible de Graham Greene
Certain one of Greene's lesser efforts. It seems that in an attempt at gravitas, he's found boredom.
Artistic, beautifully written, yet "noisy" and overly condensed.
