https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151082.Freedom_Road
Freedom Road, Howard Fast تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه فوریه سال 1982 میلادیعنوان: زاده آزادی، نویسنده: هوارد فاست؛ مترجم: مینا سرابی، علمی انتشارات نویئ، 1357؛ در 335 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 معنوان: زاده آزادی، نویسنده: هوارد فاست؛ مترجم: رضا مقدم؛ تهران، اساطیر، 1371؛ در 325 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مفهرست کتاب: پیش سخن؛ 1- انتخابات: فصل یک: چگونه گیدئون جکسون از انتخابات بازگشت؛ فصل دوم: چگونه گیدئون جکسون و برادر پیتر با یکدیگر گفتگو کردند؛ فصل سوم: چگونه گیدئون جکسون به چارلستون رفت و حوادثی که برای او اتفاق افتاد؛ فصل چهارم: چگونه گیدئون جکسون دستها و مغزش را به کار گرفت؛ فصل پنجم: فصل دوم: چگونه گیدئون جکسون مهمان افتخاری یک ضیافت بزرگ شد؛ فصل ششم: چگونه گیدئون جکسون ...
Kısa bir süreliğine de olsa köle emeğini sömüren büyük toprak sahipleri yenilgiye uğratılmış, siyahlar eyaletin kurucu meclisinde beyazlarla birlikte kendilerine yer bulabilmişlerdir.
Eski bir köle olan Gideon Jackson'ın hikayesi böyle başlıyor.Ancak eski toprak ağaları kısa bir bocalamanın ardından, yeni düzene uyum sağlayıp geri dönmeye hazırlanırlar.
Ku Klux Klan isimli çeteyi örgütleyerek Güney'de çiftçilik yapan siyahların hayatını terörize etmeye, ırkçılığı yeniden yaygınlaştırmaya çalışırlar.Yazar Howard Fast aynı zamanda bir senarist.
"Kurucu Meclis"e katılmak ve "anayasa" yapmak için eyalet ordusundan bir davet mektubu alan okuma yazma bilmeyen siyahların, "kurucu meclis ne demek?" diye birbirlerine sordukları o an, burjuva demokrasisinin ne büyük bir yalan olduğunu görüyoruz.Özetle güzel bir kitap.
There's so much i want to say, about not only this book but Howard Fast in general, but time is not permitting at the moment.
Most of his work was effectively buried under the landfill of political hypocrisy that covered the nation during the McCarthy era.
As evidence to this statement, The American, which is the wonderful book that led me to Howard Fast's work is not even available here on Goodreads, nor on Amazon, nor on Barnes and Noble searches.
If I've mis-searched in that regard, perhaps someone will set me right.
I'm really outside of my comfort zone here because slavery/Af-Am history is not my strength. I know enough about it to teach it successfully, but as far as literature about the period, I am not particularly well versed on it. I just completed this book and really love it. I thought I would breeze through it and move on, but this book has now become part of my permanent library.

I love Howard Fast for telling the Reconstruction era as it really happened. It's so rare to get an honest look at this important time in US history. And it explains so much about what has happened since that time. This is one of my top recommendations to friends.
This book provoked the strongest emotional reaction I've ever had to a book. Made me furious; I've read it 3 times.
هوارد فاست (Howard Fast)هوارد ملویل فاست در 11 نوامبر 1914 در شهر نیویورک زاده شد. در کودکی مادرش را از دست داد. پدرش کارگر کارخانه بود و از همان کودکی ناچار بود در کنار تحصیل به طور پارهوقت کار کند. پیش از آن که تحصیلاتش به پایان برسد، به سودای دریانوردی و سیر و سفر مدرسه را رها کرد. نیروی دریایی به دلیل کمی سن او را نپذیرفت. پس به سیاحت در اکناف آمریکا پرداخت و مشاغل گوناگونی چون چوببری، کارمندی اداره، پادویی کتابخانه را پیش گرفت. مدتی در آکادمی ملی طراحی به مقدمات نقاشی مشغول شد.فاست در سال 1
مدتی در آکادمی ملی طراحی به مقدمات نقاشی مشغول شد.فاست در سال 1943 به عضویت حزب کمونیست آمریکا درآمد و تنها نویسنده آمریکایی است که در سال 1953 به دریافت جایزه صلح بین‌المللی استالین نائل آمد و رمان‌های خود را با نام مستعار ای.وی.کونینگهام به چاپ می‌رساند.
بیشتر آثار فاست از تاریخ و زندگی مردم آمریکا به ویژه در زمان انقلاب و جنگ‌های استقلال مایه می‌گیرد و به خاطر شیوه جذاب روایی و پویایی داستان‌هایش از محبوبیت بسیاری برخوردارند.وی اولین رمانش را در سن 19 سالگی منتشر کرد و از همان زمان تصمیم گرفت که در لابه‌لای کتاب‌های تاریخ، قهرمانان انقلابی و کسانی را که به خاطر آزادی و سعادت بشر و میهنشان فداکاری کرده‌اند بیابد و هر کدام را قهرمان یک داستان خود کند.
اگرچه نه به آن دقت و جزئیات که تاریخ یک قرن فرانسه را می شود از طریق خواندن آثار بالزاک شناخت، با این همه هوارد فاست یک آمریکایی ست که با همه ی دید انتقادی نسبت به فرهنگ و تاریخ ملتش، هم چنان دلسوز مردم و میهن خود باقی مانده است.
افسر به مترجم می گوید “غلط می کنند بر نمی گردند" مترجم که خود از شایان هاست، مکث می کند، به راستی باید این جمله را ترجمه کند؟ فاست وصف می کند شایان ها چگونه ایستاده بودند.
Gideon Jackson is a former slave and was elected by the plantation members to represent them in the South Carolina Legislature.
Jackson made many friends and was very active in the legislature and bought the land the former slaves were living on.
Hayes who had cheated his way into the presidency (read this: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compromi...).
A connection I made in this book was how education for the former slaves was important.
Gideon Jackson fought in the South Carolina legislature for schools to be set up all around South Carolina and he succeeded.
It was like how Fredrick Douglass fought to be able to read.
I really enjoyed this book.
It was a story that, while not exactly true, did happen to many good people after the Civil War in the South.
The characters really came alive through Howard Fast's writing.
I found myself sharing in their triumphs and downfalls.
Smiling when something good happened and frowning at the bad.
My favorite character was probably Jeff.
He was a poor African American who was determined to become a doctor.
Although this book had a sad ending, it was very interesting and informational and I would recommend that anyone read it.
Freedom Road  There are many lessons in this story, and the story itself is so true, so little known, bears telling & re-telling..This is a fine work of literature. There are beautiful passages, stirring, touching, there is, as Du Bois noted, “profound psychological insight” and “lyrical charm”, there is above all the protagonist, Gideon Jackson, as finely wrought a character as I can remember ever encountering. It’s a book to make you feel deeply, think hard and rededicate yourself to the struggle...
This book shows the constant struggle between man, power and thought. It is a black mark on our society what was done to the freemen after the civil war and, even worse, that we don't know about it.Then, as now the elitist are conquering and holding down the common people. When will we (the common people) wake and learn from the past so we can control our futures?I consider Freedom Road one of my top-10 favorite books. Howard Fast researched the records of this time period and created a masterpiece worth reading.
Please see my detailed review at Amazon Graceann's "Freedom Road" Review"This is an astounding book; one that will be with me for a long time to come. Howard Fast, a superb storyteller, takes preconceived notions about Reconstruction and removes the rich man's spin for a sharp dose of reality. I was constantly amazed, enraged and moved.
Read this book for the 2nd time. Perhaps not a great book in its writing, but well-written in a simple easy style. It deals with a shameful, terrible and dark episode in US history of which I was completely unaware. How different the USA, and thus the world, may have been; how different the US foreign policy, and attitude to the rest of the world, might have been, had Reconstruction not been systematically smashed.This book affected me deeply, both times I read it.
Howard Fast is the master of constructing a complete story from the very beginning, and this time he has constructed the meaning of a very basic, a very untouchable concept; "Freedom". And once again he has completed a project brilliantly.Once again he managed to provoke the sense of humanity in the reader, and gladly, Fast not being committed to a happy ending, not giving us a happy ending and thus leaving us unsatisfied, serves the purpose of the book, fighting for humanity, excellently.
Amerika'da köleliğin kaldırıldığı seneleri anlatan bir roman. İlk sayfasından itibaren okuyanın gözünde bir film sahnesi canlanıyor. Siyahlar ve yaşadıkları hayatlar... Bu bakımdan Howard Fast romanı gerçek hayatla çok güzel birleştirip kurgulamış. Siyahların köleliğin kaldırıldığı senelerde bile yaşadıkları eziyetleri, özgürlükleri için nasıl mücadele ettiklerini, Klan adlı çeteye karşı nasıl savaştıklarını, nasıl üçer beşer acımadan öldürüldüklerini anlamak açısından okunmalı.
Technically speaking, this book is about the Reconstruction, not the Civil War. I'm not sure how I made it to adulthood without knowing more about this moment in history. For a short time after the war, there were communities in the South where former slaves and poor white farmers lived in communities together. Unfortunately, they did not last, as the end of this book attests. The writing was wonderful and the characters compelling. I gave four stars for the sad (but true) ending.
This book revealed so many things to me - really gives you insight about what actually happened after the civil war and why things are the way they are among the Black community, particularly in the South. Talk about things you never learned in High School History class! And it is so well-written and each character's story is so poignant, I finished it in like a day and a half.
اثری ستایش برانگیز که موازی استقلال امریکا رخ میدهد و من نمونه ای مشابه با آن را به یاد ندارم. نکته حاشیه ای که برای خودم جالب است، این است که شاید همه تحت تاثیر شخصیت جرج واشینگتن قرار بگیرند، و حتی سختگیری شدید او را بستایند، اما من شدیدا تحت تاثیر شخصیت همیلتون جردن قرار گرفتم، نمی دانم چرا! شاید برای آنکه موجود بامرامی بود! ـ
Strong and powerful book that is difficult to get through because the story is so depressing, especially since these things occurred so often in the south after the Civil War. How people could join the Klan and be so cruel and ignorant is hard to fathom. Disturbing book, but a story people should be reading.
a very compelling book about a much forgotten window of time. it was filled with both hope and despair, and depicts the suffering of a people that it would bode well for us to remember to avoid similar follies. It's defiantly a heart bleed so be prepared.
WOW! im not much of a fan of the civil war but this book is on the aftermath and the start of the Reconstruction. It introduces the KKK and how life was for a Black person of the era and the first Black mens of Congress. I didnt expect to like it but I did and i cried.
One of the best and yet most tragic books I have ever read. For those interested in antebellum history and the early civil rights movements, I highly recommend this books. Fair warning however, it will make you cry.
A book that makes the injustice of the end of reconstruction real. While the actual story is fiction, the story happened all over the south (with references).
One of the books that changed my life.
Some might argue that Fast is just playing with your emotions, but its feasibility forgives its fictional state.
E' un libro che mi è capitato tra le mani per caso, pensavo fosse un "romanzetto" anni cinquanta un 
While Fast provides wonderful insight into the struggle of African Americans during reconstruction and the eventual destruction of everything that struggle built, the prose often degrades into a kind of mediocre YA style with wooden dialog. The story of this era is incredibly vital and important, and its neglect in storytelling and history class is a maddening indication of our society's desire to ignore it. Because of this neglect, it is even more lamentable that one book willing to explore an aspect of our dark side is ultimately hobbled.
Powerful story! I couldn’t put it down and read it just two sittings. Gideon, a newly-freed man after the American Civil War, is elected to help draft the new state constitution of South Carolina which starts him on a journey of education and leadership. His character is a composite of a number of real men during Reconstruction, and his life demonstrates the possibilities and tragedies of those times. Fast’s Communist sympathies certainly come out in the glorification of the laboring classes and their class struggle. However, it’s an excellent story which should be brought back into print.
