https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186345.The_Long_Valley
.I originally set out to read just one of these for a challenge, then read the entire book because it revealed a different side of Steinbeck to me.
As a native Californian I have loved all his novels set in this beautiful part of our state centered around a vanished way of life and this collection was like a generous serving of whipped topping on that body of work.On a side note, I sing the praises of group challenge reads.
Not all turn out to my liking but I just love when I end up wallowing in books that I would not have read otherwise.
I have to re-examine my own writing every time I read a Steinbeck novel.
My trite phrasing and flat descriptions look like ugly stepchildren next to his princely prose.
Even this slim volume of four, lesser-known short stories is packed with some beautifully powerful writing.
The Long Valley originally came with more than twice the number of stories.
I loath abridged books.
Well, it's not the books' fault.
Damn them to Hades!Okay, looks like I have some more reading to do before I can do a proper review.
Yet, while Steinbeck is undoubtedly famous for his work featuring the underdogs, and the out of luck characters he has become well know for, this collection of short stories explores a slightly darker side of his writing, one I was unaware of until now.
The stories here are often dark in nature (not that Of Mice and Men was a cheerful tale by any means), and explore some darker thoughts inside the seemingly simple characters.
And these rocks, the dirty secrets and dark thoughts of the characters are what makes this collection worth reading.
I'm not a big fan of short stories, but the stories in this collection are as well crafted as Steinbeck's longer fiction.
The characters, settings and plots are authentic (with the exception of a strange story about a pig, which I just didn't get).
The stories deal with (among other things) the aftermath of a lynching, suppressed dreams, a husband in a literal and figurative harness, a misguided and doomed view of manhood, a brutal crime of passion and a young boy just getting to know some of the harsher sides of life.
I listened to the audio book, with excellent narration by Holter Graham, and also read the interesting annotations in the Penguin paperback version of the collection.
Full Review to follow. This book is among my top ten favorites. Often overlooked, these short stories are masterpieces of characterization, dialogue, and sense of place. These are stories that may easily be read many times over. I have, four times. The Red PonyThe Red Pony was originally published in this volume. However, readers will find haunting tales here that will linger far longer in their memory. If you admire Steinbeck, pick up this volume you've likely not read. You will treasure it.
The stories themselves, Saint Katy the Virgin being the exception - a strangely whimsical tale set in mediaeval France - are set in Steinbeck’s birthplace, the background for so much of his writing, the Salinas Valley in California.
Apparently, Steinbeck demanded that Saint Katy the Virgin be included in the collection, and although I enjoyed it, I have to admit that it does seem a bit of a puzzle alongside the rest.
However, I never feel that Steinbeck is ever being wantonly bleak.
Above all, Steinbeck is telling us stories about human beings and of their relationships to others.
C'è tutto il mondo a Salinas, Salinas è tutto il mondo.Doveva pensarla proprio così John Steinbeck c
Unlike Steinbeck's other short story collection, The Pastures of Heaven, this book lacks thematic unity. First published in 1938, many of the stories in the collection had been published previously. The stories differ widely in tone and subject matter, from the rather creepy "The Snake", to the prize-winning "The Murder", to the four stories which make up "The Red Pony". What the stories share is their Salinas Valley location, wonderfully descriptive prose, unsentimental depiction of the beauty and terror of the natural world and a compassion for human frailty. A worthwhile read for Steinbeck completists.
Several excellent stories, including the exceptional 'Johnny Bear'.
Steinbeck's great storytelling style shines in this early collection of his short stories.
I've read about half of this collection before in various places.
But reading them again in the context of the whole collection was surprisingly enjoyable.
Here you get a wide range of Steinbeck's tone with a single theme throughout: violence.As with all collections, some stories were weaker than others.
In particular, I wasn't a fan of “The Murder,” a story which seemingly justifies the abuse of a wife.
Steinbeck fans should definitely get around to reading this one.
Others may just wish to stick with the more heavily anthologized stories (e.g.
I'd like to think the situation is portrayed ironically; but it doesn't come across that way to me, partly because of the questionable portrayal of women in this collection of stories generally.I believe some argue that this shouldn't be taken to reflect any endorsement by the author, and that in 'The Murder' he is merely commenting objectively on the masochistic urges of one woman from a particular background, but even so, his manner of writing of it doesn't really portray it as a sick aberration.
Short stories that give you a vignette glimpse into life in the West and always leave you wanting more. They fade out just as you want to see what happens next. Steinbeck was an incredibly gifted writer who knew how to craft a character and a scene. Lovely!
Lovely stories! I can't pick a favourite, they are all touching in their profound humanity.
'A big spotted wildcat was creeping toward the spring, belly to the ground, moving like thought.''A gentle pain began to make itself felt in Mike's chest.
A driving line forty men deep had crashed Mike against the door like the head of a ram.
He had hardly felt it then, and even now the pain seemed to have the dull quality of loneliness.' " The old man smiled.
There's a line of old men along the shore hating the ocean because it stopped them.'"Reading Steinbeck reminds me how much I love to read, not necessarily for the lines of a story, but for the magical way the words combine themselves around it.
" Molly, annesi öldüğü zaman ancak utanmıştı.
Annesi halbuki hep yaşarken sevilmek isterdi, ama kendisini sevdirmesini bir türlü bilmezdi.
Moly 'nin hikayesinden çok etkilendim.
Moly yoksul bir çocukluk geçiriyor.
Çok yaramaz iki erkek kardeş, eve çok az uğrayan bir baba ve çocukların ihtiyaçlarını karşılamak için çok çalışmak zorunda kalan ,hep yorgun gezen, sevgi ve ilgi görmeye muhtaç bir zavallı anne.
Ve bir gün Molly 10 yaşlarındayken babası eve dönmüyor...
Molly hep baba özlemi çekiyor , ta ki o köye öğretmen olarak gelene kadar, sonra garip bir şeyler oluyor, sanki babası hala yaşıyor ve onun çok yakınında...
Every voice adds to its respective short story.
You are never seriously angry with any of the characters; Steinbeck doesn't allow you to be.
Steinbeck wants you to understand what motivates each of his characters, and maybe see a little bit of yourself in their intent.
I can't say what I didn't like, because it's not so much that his stories are in any way egregiously flawed, but perhaps I don't understand him?
Honorable mention: the Breakfast.
Nothing bad ever happens in the world of "the Breakfast." I was kinda out of it during "the Leader of the People." Wasn't super enamored or invested.
Gorgeously written. One of the (many!) things I admire about Steinbeck is his confidence. Each story's pace is leisurely, measured and deliberate. Steinbeck trusts that the quality of his prose will keep the reader engaged, and yep, he's absolutely right.
Tortilla Flat is really a collection of more coherent short stories using a recurring cast of characters in a particular locale rather than the usual "plot." [return][return]The Long Valley is even more loosely organized than The Pastures of Heaven.
[return][return]The Long Valley is a disturbing work, because in it, Steinbeck, who clearly loved the land, just as clearly reveals that while he does not sit in judgement, he is at best neutral towards his characters; there is nothing like the affection he has for Danny and his friends and the ne'er-do-wells like Mac and the boys of Tortilla Flat and Cannery Row, respectively.
Otra colección de cuentos cortos, parecida a "The Pastures of Heaven" en el sentido que coinciden geográficamente, aunque en esta ocasión las historias parecen ser completamente independientes, excepto las dos últimas, la famosa 'The Red Pony' y 'The Leader of the People', donde los personajes coinciden. Me parece uno de los trabajos más oscuros de   John STEINBECK , donde se incluyen algunos aspectos misóginos desconcertantes entre las historias de abuso, asesinatos y venganza (por ejemplo, en
Otra colección de cuentos cortos, parecida a "The Pastures of Heaven" en el sentido que coinciden geográficamente, aunque en esta ocasión las historias parecen ser completamente independientes, excepto las dos últimas, la famosa 'The Red Pony' y 'The Leader of the People', donde los personajes coinciden.
Me parece uno de los trabajos más oscuros de 
John STEINBECK
, donde se incluyen algunos aspectos misóginos desconcertantes entre las historias de abuso, asesinatos y venganza (por ejemplo, en 'The Murder', historia que me dejó paralizado).Ciertamente, el autor es un gran narrador, a pesar que algunos de sus concepciones ya quedan francamente rebasadas en la sociedad más liberal de hoy en día.
Absolutely marvelous collection of short stories!
Themes are not always easy to pinpoint, but the details and the story dynamics show the hand of a true master.
He wrote this before he wrote the ‘Grapes of Wrath’, and you can even find one scene from that novel as a short story in this collection!
Grapes of Wrath, of course, remains his masterpiece, due to the potent theme that shows what penury can do to human dignity.
He showed this for the migrant workers, but we can see that everywhere today, among the bankers, the consultants, even the players of the publishing sector.
There's always a softness in his portraiture of the beauty of valley and the lives of the people in Salinas, California (his birthplace and the region around which most of his stories are set).
So while his stories about lives of farmers and peaceful farm life feel escapist, being completely different from the kind of busy, noisy lives that we are leading, it is followed by the realisation of hunger and honour that served as the basis of lives distant from us.
Even the setting of the cultivated lands and populations living in fertile yet once inhospitable regions of Western California serves as a symbol of the survival spirit of humans.
This book of stories also included The Red Pony. I find Steinbeck uniquely magical and soothing. Many of these short stories seemed to have a little touch of magic, which is a bit outside his norm. Not too much, just right. It’s was an excellent collection.
A beautifully written, sometimes confronting set of short stories.
Meh.
The husband spends his nights out at what I assume are whore houses (something Steinbeck knows a lot about, 3 marriage a coincidence?) but shoots the man he finds in bed with his wife.
So far as I can tell, Steinbeck isn't a joker by nature, so I'm guessing this actually quite a mean story meant to mock religion.
So far as I can tell, Steinbeck doesn't like women.
But the good ones (thinking of Cannery Row and Sweet Thursday, and even of The Murder)are the whores, who're the salt of the earth.
She sends him to town to buy needed supplies, but Pepe gets into a fight with a troublemaker and kills him.
He also warns Root to quit referencing Scripture, which is just an "opium of the people."The Harness: Peter Randall believes he's a tortured man under the thumb of his wife Emma.
Knowing Katy's propensity for violence Roark gives her to The Brothers for a tithe when they come to collect.
Ok, so John's not a fan of the papacy.The Red Pony: The adventures of young Jody Tiflin as he grows up on the family ranch.
(I) Jody gets a red pony, loves, trains and cares for it.
He mapped the area like an American Wessex.Unlike The Pastures of Heaven, Steinbeck never conceived of the stories as a whole work.
Another seems like a sketch cut from Grapes and does little more than describe a nice breakfast.These duds aside the rest are quality, especially the opener ‘The Chrysanthemums’, ‘The Snake’ (an early tale of Steinbeck’s pal Ed Ricketts, the model for Doc in Cannery Row) and ‘The Murder.’ This volume also contains The Red Pony stories, which Penguin sells as a separate volume.It seems Steinbeck wrote most of the stories at a low point.
Steinbeck built his writing muscle crafting these stories.
I would say that a story in this collection, such as The Flight, contains descriptive passages that achieve a level of aestheticism through depiction that simply doesn't exist in the works of writers such as Kurt Vonnegut or Doris Lessing, who make use of irony, humor, satire or structural and narrative experiments to sustain reader interest.
In this regard, some may view the hardships or violence Steinbeck's characters endure as being almost sentimentalized.
His stories depict physical (rather than virtual) experience and in this day and age of electronic distraction I believe that holds extra meaning.
I am so glad I bothered to find a first edition; I loved the book and plan to hold onto it and reread it often.With the exception of the very silly "St Katy the Virgin" about a reformed pig who can perform miracles, all of the stories take place in the Salinas Valley and in the "present day" (1930s Depression).
Others are more elaborate and have elements of magical realism: a woman thinks she's a quail, a man is haunted by his nagging wife, an village idiot recounts the events before a suicide and so forth.All together these stories paint a picture of the Salinas area: its people, its geography, its culture, its beliefs, its sins and its dreams.
