https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23225.Haunted
Hehe. Now I remember why this was my favorite so long ago....that jelly boy fight, though XDRTC.For more of my reviews, please visit:
Sa-WOOOOOON
These books are wonderful!
Our adorable moderator has met a male counterpart, except that he is evil.
He lies, cheats, and kills.
But worst of all, he wants our moderator.
(Him being a good kisser is beside the point)  Our Evil Moderator blackmails our Adorable Moderator into spending time with him by agreeing not to dispense with her ghost boyfriend.
There is also a ghost haunting his brother that Suze is supposed to help to move on.
But she spends so much time worrying about her tortured romances that she almost misses the ghost trying to kill his brother.
Good story!
Not as much happened in this one, but I can't wait to see what happens in book 6!
I was a little sad that Suze dropped the nicknames for her stepbrothers.
I really liked hearing them referred to as Dopey, Sleepy, and Doc. This is the shortest book in the series, but I still feel like important things happened in it.
I'm getting a little tired of the "Suze meets boy who is being haunted by a malevolent spirit" plotline - don't girls ever get haunted?
I also wish Suze's friend CeeCee played a bigger role in the series; I feel like she could be a cool sidekick.
The characters were kinda annoying in this one. Suze needed to get it togetherrrrr. And Jesse. And her friend was being oddly pushy about the campaign. And Father Dom was being rather unsympathetic. Hhmmm... So it's my least favorite Mediator book so far. Hope it gets back on track from here.3 stars
ชอบความสัมพันธของตัวละครเรืองนีทีเขมขนซับซอนขึนเรือยๆจากเลมทีแลว แมวาเราจะไมคอยชอบในชวงแรกๆของหนังสือเทาไร เพราะตัวของซูซเองนีแหละทีทำใหเราอยากจะเดินเขาไปตบหัวแลวจับตัวเขยาๆ ถามวานีเธอเปนอะไรมากมัย ? แตพอผานครึงเลมไปแลว เนือเรืองกถูกดึงใหกลับมาพีคอีกครัง ความรูสึกของเจสซีทีมีตอซูซานนาหกเริมชัดเจนขึนมา ไหนจะเรืองของพอลอีกหละ ทีตอนแรกเราคิดวาเขานีแหละทีเปนตัวปัญหามากสุด แตเลมนีเขากกลับมีบทบาทสำคัญขึนมา และทำใหปมความสัมพันธของตัวละครมันชัดมากยิงขึน ((view spoiler)[ตอนเจสซีหึงซูซนีแบบ...พีคเวอร (hid
ชอบความสัมพันธ์ของตัวละครเรื่องนี้ที่เข้มข้นซับซ้อนขึ้นเรื่อยๆจากเล่มที่แล้ว แม้ว่าเราจะไม่ค่อยชอบในช่วงแรกๆของหนังสือเท่าไร เพราะตัวของซูซเองนี่แหละที่ทำให้เราอยากจะเดินเข้าไปตบหัวแล้วจับตัวเขย่าๆ ถามว่านี่เธอเป็นอะไรมากมั้ย ? แต่พอผ่านครึ่งเล่มไปแล้ว เนื้อเรื่องก็ถูกดึงให้กลับมาพีคอีกครั้ง ความรู้สึกของเจสซี่ที่มีต่อซูซานน่าห์ก็เริ่มชัดเจนขึ้นมา ไหนจะเรื่องของพอลอีกหละ ที่ตอนแรกเราคิดว่าเขานี่แหละที่เป็นตัวปัญหามากสุด แต่เล่มนี้เขาก็กลับมีบทบาทสำคัญขึ้นมา และทำให้ปมความสัมพันธ์ของตัวละครมันชัดมากยิ่งขึ้น ((view spoiler)[ตอนเจสซี่หึงซูซนี่แบบ...พีคเว่อร์ (hide spoiler)])ชอบนะ...ชอบ Continuity ช่วงท้ายๆของหนังสือที่ทำออกมาได้ดีพอๆกับเล่มที่แล้วเลย ด้วยทางด้านความรู้สึกของตัวละครที่มันชัดมากๆ ทำให้เราชอบตรงส่วนนี้มากกว่าเล่มที่แล้วแบบเฉือนชนะไปหน่อยนึง แต่ก็ขอหักคะแนนตอนต้นๆเรื่องที่ทำให้เราหวั่นใจกลัวว่าจะกลับไปเหมือนเล่ม 2-3 ซะแล้ว สรุปเลยให้คะแนนเท่าเล่มก่อนหน้าไปละกัน...(view spoiler)[พอล สเลเตอร์กลับมาหาซูซานน่าห์อีกครั้ง คราวนี้เขามาเรียนที่โรงเรียนเดียวกับเธอ เขาเผยความรู้สึกอย่างชัดเจนว่าเขาชอบเธอ และชักจูงให้เธอยอมเชื่อเขาว่าเธอเป็นมากกว่าเดอะเมดิเตอร์ พอลพาซูซไปที่บ้านเขาและจูบกับเธอ ซูซานน่าห์รู้ตัวแล้วว่าเธอไม่น่าจะทำเรื่องแบบนั้นลงไปเลย แต่จะโทษเธอก็ไม่ได้...เพราะช่วงหลังๆ เจสซี่ก็ห่วงเหินและไม่สนใจเธออย่างที่ควรจะเป็น ทั้งๆที่เขาได้จูบเธอไปแล้ว แต่เจสซี่ก็ทำเหมือนเรื่องนั้นไม่เคยเกิดขึ้นเลยเจสซี่กำลังจะย้ายออกจากบ้านของเธอและไปอยู๋กับคุณพ่อดอม ซูซเสียใจมากและคิดว่าที่ทำแบบนั้นเพราะเจสซี่ต้องการปฏิเสธเธอ เมื่อเจสซี่พยายามจะสารภาพความจริงให้ซูซานน่าห์ฟัง พอลก็บุกมาถึงห้องนอนของเธอ เขาและเจสซี่ต่อสู้กันท่ามกลางสายตาเด็กวัยรุ่นหลายคนที่มาร่วมปาร์ตี้ของแบรด ซูซานน่าห์จึงตัดสินใจใช้พลังของเธอเดินทางไปยังโลกของวิญญาณกับพอล และจัดการส่งวิญญาที่ตามรังควาญเธอมาก่อนหน้านี้ ซูซตัดสินใจทำข้อตกลงกับพอลในการให้เขาได้สอนเธอและค้นพบพลังของผู้เคลื่อนย้ายที่ซ่อนเอาไว้ในตัวของเธอ ในตอนท้ายหลังจากนั้น...เจสซี่ก็มาหาเธอและสารภาพกับซูซว่าเขาก็มีใจตรงกันกับเธอเช่นเดียวกัน (hide spoiler)]
Mediator 5, Grave Doubts starts with Suze's dream about Paul Slater in purgatory.
Suze's life is going mad as she tries to stop Neil's dead brother killing him, keep Paul away from her and get Jesse, the gorgeous ghost that lives in her bedroom, to go out with her.My favourite part is the hot tub party near the end.
Paul arrives uninvited and provokes Jesse.
Paul tumbles down the stairs pushed by Jesse.
Jesse holds Paul’s head in the hot tub.
This is the book when Paul Slater just managed to push himself onto Suze (even if its's unrequited) and inserts himself between her and Jesse. Talk about a psychopath. Not a whole lot happened, plot-wise. Just Suze moaning about her love life really and finding out things about her spiritual powers.
The best book in the series as far as relasionships go, and I am torn between Paul and Jesse. I mean, Jesse rocks, but Paul has this part of him that I just want to kiss him myself, you feel so sorry for him. Overall, very good book, though I hate how Jesse moves out for Suzes' "own good".
Paul turns out to be even crazier than I thought and we get more of the whole Jesse-drama-llama.
Suze is more dense and stupid than I ever thought possible.
I laughed out loud when she said she isn't stupid.
But OF COURSE Paul had to turn out even crazier than he was portrayed as before.
And am I the only one who thought Jesse completely overreacted when he went at Paul with the goal of killing him?
That turned me off Jesse so fast you wouldn't believe it.
How could I kiss someone else and like it when I love Jesse?
I did scream this at the book and then went into a tirade of WHY he shouldn't like her, annoying was at the top of the list.
I calmed down, did some Yoga breathing and finished the book.
This intrigues me to hurry on to the next book and finish up the series because it sounds like he will be in the next one and possibly showing her more stuff she is capable off.
If he can get her off of Jesse, that is.
Now get off me."But Paul just went on kissing me.I'm not going to continue the series I hate to say, because this book has thoroughly disgusted me and I'm very disappointed at how the author uses Suze to perpetuate harmful ideas about sexual assault.
I've glanced over the reviews and there are actually people swooning over Paul and I just can't stand it and I hate it and this book series has gone downhill from a heroine that I admired to a puppet of the author that doesn't act like herself and perpetuates harmful ideas.
I really, really, really don't like Paul.
This time there wasn't much of ghosts trying to kill Suze, as much as the love-triangle really flourishing.
But I had no problem with this because I spent the whole book trying to figure why I loved Paul Slater so much?
I have a thing for the under dogs!THANK GOODNESS someone (not going to spoil with who) finally got clued in on the whole mediator deal.
As much as I love the first few books, I forgot how much I enjoyed these later books because it's not just a stubborn ghost that refuses to move on.
I loved this one!! I was heartbroken when Jesse went to the rectory, but oh did my heart flutter at the end - woooo!!! Nice twist too with "Grandpa Slater".I agree, the fight chapter was hillarious!!! I love that CeeCee realized finally who Jesse is. And I love how she is willing to let Suze explain it all in time. What a great friend!!
I'm a BIG fan of The Mediator series, no that there's this fifth book to the collection, I really needed to read this.The realtionship between Suze and Jesse is one of a kind, mainly because he's a ghost.
But, she thinks he doesn't feel the same way.
He's one of the bad guys and yeah he likes Suze too!
I was thinking...
Especially the party-like scene where Jesse and Paul are at each other's necks in Suze's bedroom, fighting away.
which is a very good end I must say.Jesse and Suze.
Suze and Jesse :D
Since when did Sleepy, Dopey and Doc become permanently Jake, Brad and David? I liked how each book solved a different mystery/dealt with a different ghost, so I was disappointed when this book was basically all just about Paul being a creep/evil and Suze crying about Jesse. Paul is aggressive and annoying and there is no development whatsoever, so this was probably my least favourite book of the series so far.
2.75* Not as good as the previous one (or the first two), but had better plot than book three. The main characters weren't as likeable here. Even Jesse and Father Dom were kind of... having a bad day I guess.
Gah. I'd forgotten how stupid Jesse was in this.Also, fuck Paul.Originally read in 2006
Suze's story continues, and this time ghosts are not the ones causing her problems, but Paul, the arrogant, manipulative mediator she met in the previous book.Paul is back in town and is now enrolled in Suze's school, and seems to have an agenda that involves her.
I am curious to see how things develop, however, so on to Twilight we go.Previous book reviews:✦ Darkest Hour (The Mediator, #4)✦ Every Girl's Dream (The Mediator, #3.5)✦ Reunion (The Mediator, #3)
Well...this is gonna be on my list for one of the worst books of 2017. I'll probably do a series review after the next book (which is the last book of the series) which will explain everything.
3.5
This book is pointless. Least favourite from the series
Grave Doubts is still highly enjoyable, but I couldn’t help feeling as if it was a bit of a ‘filler’ book – one that explains some need-to-know things between Young Blood and Heaven Sent, particularly about the role that Paul Slater plays as antagonist.After Suze’s emotional outpouring in Young Blood, it’s great to see her back in action and back to her old tricks. Of course, things may have ended EXTREMELY well in the last book, but that doesn’t mean they’re staying that way. Suze has to fig
Grave Doubts is still highly enjoyable, but I couldn’t help feeling as if it was a bit of a ‘filler’ book – one that explains some need-to-know things between Young Blood and Heaven Sent, particularly about the role that Paul Slater plays as antagonist.After Suze’s emotional outpouring in Young Blood, it’s great to see her back in action and back to her old tricks.
Grave Doubts hinged entirely on the relationship between Suze, Paul and Jesse – and the dynamic between the three.There was plenty of action this time around, as well as some really cute scenes between Suze and Jesse.
In Grave Doubt the fifth book of the Mediator series Suzie is drawn to Paul, a fellow mediator who is a new student at her school.
In the previous book Paul spent his time trying to win Suzie over but he has made it clear he has no interest in helping the recently deceased despite her protests.
I mean she's in love with someone who is dead, that must mess you up a little!I understood why Suzie let her guard down with Paul, her loneliness really shone through.
I loved that Ceecee made that little comment about Jesse and I'm glad she figured out Suzie's boyfriend is a ghost.
This and other reviews can be found on The Psychotic Nerd MY THOUGHTS The last book ended with a kiss between Suze and Jesse (YES!), but now Suze doesn't know where they stand. Are they dating? How can they even date? And after that kiss, Jesses has been keeping himself distant, so much so that Suze is questioning is he sees the kiss as a mistake. To make matters worse, Paul enrolled in Suze's school and he's intent on dating Suze and wants to teach her what it truly means to be a meditator. Tho
To make matters worse, Paul enrolled in Suze's school and he's intent on dating Suze and wants to teach her what it truly means to be a meditator.
Though, Suze just can't trust him.This book mainly focuses on Paul, a character who was introduced in the last book.
I mean, he almost killed Suze and tried to get rid of Jesse in the last book, so it's understandable that Suze doesn't trust him.
I am very curious about the addition of Paul and where this series is going!
Paul is the Devil in a hot bod—or so Suze believes as she recalls the past summer when Paul tried to kill her and make her ghostly sweetheart, Jesse, disappear forever.Paul claims to know what, exactly, they are, why they communicate with ghosts and what else they can do.
Is that why he kisses her the day he invites her over to his place under the pretense of learning more about mediators?Meanwhile, Suze’s relationship with the hot ghost who haunts her room, Jesse, has been awkward and littered with silences.
I am a hearty proponent of the impossible romance between Suze and Jesse, but Paul definitely makes this series all the more interesting.
The series follows Suze Simon who has the ability to see, to talk to, and to beat up - whatever the occasion warrants - ghosts in order to send them on their way to the afterworld.
In fact, the Mediator Series reads a lot like those teen serialized TV shows set in small town California that follow a new story each episode, in addition to being easy entertainment to take in.This is my first Meg Cabot read - can you believe it?
And if all of her protagonists are as fun as Suze Simon, then I am looking forward to reading more from her.
I'm curious, which are the Meg Cabot books that I absolutely must read next?
It isn't as tightly plotted as the past books, but that might not be a bad thing.
There were enjoyable parts to this book.However, in the end, what really made it less enjoyable for me was that the book has the bad communication plot line to keep a romantic pairing apart.
I despise plot lines that can easily be resolved with honest, open communication because so often, they are done poorly.
I really do not believe that this bad communication sprung organically.
The ending to the last book was so misleading.It wasn't all bad.
