https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5024595-tamerlane-the-earth-shaker

سپس به سمرقند بازگشت و از آنجا به هندوستان رفت و مردم دهلی را قتل عام نمود‎سپس به سیواس و آسیایِ صغیر رفت و ارمنی ها را زنده زنده در گور نهاد و سپس حلب و شام را تصرف کرد و دمشق را به آتش کشید‎سال بعد از حمله به دمشق و بغداد، به سمتِ آنکارا و ترکیه یورش برد و <بایزید ایلدرم> را در قفس آهنی کرد و شهر را متصرف شد و سلطان عثمانی تا آخرِ عمر همچون حیوان درون قفس زندگی کرد‎سپس به چین لشگرکشی کرد، اما در سال ۸۰۷ در سرمای سختِ کنار جیحون بیمار شد و در سن ۷۱ سالگی از سرماخوردگی به هلاکت رسید‎امیدوارم این مطالب و این ریویو، برایِ شما بزرگواران مفید بوده باشه‎<پیروز باشید و ایرانی>
বাংলা "সুবহ দসতাবেজ পুসতকের বিনযাস" (পিডিএফ = Portable Document Format) যে এতোটা আগাইয়া গিয়াছে, ইহা দেখিয়া হৃদয়ে বড়ই আননদ বোধ করিতেছি। পরিয় পাঠক, দনত হনতারক বাংলা দেখিয়া এই অধমকে মনদ বলিবেন না যেন। ইহা এই অধমের দোষ নহে। আমাদিগের আডডায় জনৈক বযকতি যদি "নিল দনত সহকারে দসতাবেজ আদান পরদান (file sharing using bluetooth)" বলিতে পারে (গুরুতত সহকারে, হাসি তামাসা করিয়া নহে) তাহা হইলে এই অধম কেন "সুবহ দসতাবেজ পুসতকের বিনযাস" বলিতে পারিবে না? (শুধু তাহাই নহে, জৈনক বযকতি French Fry কে "ফরাসি ভাজা" বলিয়া থাকে

This covers nearly every aspect of his life, from the towers of human heads and the absolute razing of Baghdad, to the dome he stole from Syria and the pleasure palace her had built in twenty days, all poetically written in that early twentieth century melodious prose, and it reads like a novel.There were a few things I found slightly lacking.
He was reburied with full Islamic rites in November of 1942, just days before the Soviet victory at Stalingrad.One question I'm left with that I felt Lamb didn't address as thoroughly as he could have was the role of Timur's faith throughout his life.
Tamerlane, Harold Lambعنوان: تیمور لنگ؛ نویسنده: هارولد لمب؛ مترجم: علی جواهرکلام؛ مشخصات نشر: قلم مکنون، در 338 ص، شابک: 9789642527540؛
This covers nearly every aspect of his life, from the towers of human heads and the absolute razing of Baghdad, to the dome he stole from Syria and the pleasure palace her had built in twenty days, all poetically written in that early twentieth century melodious prose, and it reads like a novel.There were a few things I found slightly lacking.
He was reburied with full Islamic rites in November of 1942, just days before the Soviet victory at Stalingrad.One question I'm left with that I felt Lamb didn't address as thoroughly as he could have was the role of Timur's faith throughout his life.
Timor Lang, also known as Tamerlane was probably one of histories most enigmatic military leaders of all time.
One of the most puzzling aspects about him is that he simply didn't lose.
Unlike Ghengis Khan, Tamerlane's strategies were never quite as cunning, instead he chose to always meet his enemies in their full strength and then crush them.
He almost dismantled the Ottoman Empire with a single battle.
He even defeated the Golden Horde One of the hardest things to understand about him is how he always managed to overcome any obstacle or Enemy.
Building an empire entirely around his personality it died with him.
According to Lamb when he conquered the Golden Hoard (the Mongolian tribe that ruled Russia) he placed a group of Tartars in Crimea to control the area where Russian came in touch of Europe.
The tartars returned with the fall of the Soviet’s and they apparently voted against the Russia takeover of the Crimea) Lamb said Timur also took Poland for a time.
Lamb says Timur was a great patron of the art and architecture.
Timur apparently enjoyed the domes of the Byzantium architecture and brought it back to Samarkand and into Russia.
In enjoyed learning about Timur, his land and time.
This was a great book, maybe mostly because Tamerlane was previously unfamiliar to me. I listened on Audible. I am getting more insight into the complicated Tartar/Muslim/Mongol/Turkish/Arab connections, but still need more understanding.
a story based history, nice book I red it not in english but it's translation in urdu
تیمور لنگ کی حیران کن داستان اور اس کی مسلسل جنگی کامیابیوں کی روئیداد
I learned so much more from Wikipedia about Timur than from this audiobook, which I did listen to in its entirety.
On Wikipedia, I could learn about conquered cities and rivals as I wished, and was treated to facts like this, about his sack of Delhi: “Sultan Nasir-ud-Din Mahmud Shah Tughluq and Mallu Iqbal's army had war elephants armored with chain mail and poison on their tusks.
Faced with the strange spectacle of camels flying straight at them with flames leaping from their backs, the elephants turned around and stampeded back toward their own lines.”This book, on the other hand, treats a similar event, Timur’s Battle of Ankara against the Ottoman Empire thusly: “The splendid Ottoman infrantry, the couer d’elite, the janissaries, had not struck a blow.
While being non-fiction, this history is written as a narrative and reads much like a novel.
While this makes it easy to read, it lacks the detail and richness of historical fiction and is not as academically robust as some modern history.
While his military achievements were impressive, it's hard not to simply view Tamburlaine as one of the dogs fighting over the scraps left behind by Genghis Khan, even though he arguably rose to be the leader of the Pack.
Perhaps this suggests that in order to achieve greatness a concrete need to do more than simply conquer.
Could not get into this at all. I've been reading a lot about Genghis Khan and the Mongol Empire recently, and was looking forward to learning more about the last great nomadic conqueror to sweep out of Central Asia, but I just didn't click with the presentation.Lamb writes in a manner more reminiscent of historical fiction than history proper, giving the whole thing the air of a pulpy novel at times. The hammy and overwrought delivery of the narrator didn't help on that front.
Rereading for the third time. A well written work on a largely untold giant of history. Whilst Europe was a backward hovel of petty kingdoms riven by a parochial religion and minor dynasts, Tamerlane united a people and swept all before him. His empire fell as quickly as he died, the ancient Greeks had a word for it "hubris," but while it lasted none could stand before him. He was the last of the steppe "barbarians" and the least known by the west.
I often enjoy books about men who made pyramids of skulls, but this book is special. The author truly loves his subject, and this love shines through in the telling of the tale. Bravo, Harold Lamb!
Harold Lamb wrote a number of biographies of famous people during the 1920s and 30s. I read a 1950s printing of the 1928 book. I found it interesting though a bit hard to follow.
tamerlane, that was a mongol, right? So cruel, so succesful, with hordes of horse arches running circles on any Defender.So i thought. I was wrong. Great read.
Dry but interesting
