https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9507997-303-squadron
It tells the story of exiled polish air fighters who escaped Poland after Germany invaded in September of 1939.
After France was occupied, then again escaped to Great Britain.
Within a year, Britain formed polish fighting squadrons under the RAF leadership.
The knocked 3 times the number of planes on average out of the sky then British squadrons did while suffering a third of the casualties.
Fiedler originally wrote this book while following these men during this conflict.
As well, this is now required reading in Polish grade-school classes.
One of my favorite books I read in 2010.
Nie mogę jej ocenić ponieważ mi się nie podobała, ale jednocześnie wiem jak ważną i wartościową lekturą jest.
Fiedler wrote this at the height of the Battle of Britain as he spent time with the pilots and ground crews of 303 Squadron as they defended the lands of Britain as if they were their own.
Fiedler captures their determination, pride and bravery perfectly but still manages to portray their vulnerability, humanity and sense of feeling that many war novels forget makes a good soldier/pilot a great one.
The Poles constituted the largest number of non-British fighter pilots of a squadron that was situated between London and the European continent.
There is little question about the bravery of the Polish pilots and this was represented by the large number of high level decorations awarded by the Brits and by Poland to these pilots.
The major drawback of this book is that we don't know how the Polish pilots managed to be so much more successful in their missions than the German and the British pilots.
But the fact is that that Brits used Spitfires and Poles used Hurricanes.
I loved this book.
First heard about it in the remarkable book by Lynne Olson, Last Hope Island.
This, too, is a great book of history and The Battle of Britain.
The hitherto little known and recognized tremendous impact the Polish Airforce had in deciding the defeat of the Germany bombing raids over Britain.
The Polish airmen were not recognized for their valor and superior skills until well after the war.
How many of us knew of their squadrons fighting for the British?
Great read!
But, read Last Hope Island first and get the whole picture.
Lynne Olson is a great historian.
I remember someone commenting to Dad, in my presence, "but you weren't in the fighting," as though that made his service less important or less sacrificial.
I felt ever aware that these Polish pilots shot down German "machines." I can't imagine how you'd deal with shooting down fathers, sons, and grandsons.This book dedicates a chapter to the airplane mechanics, which my dad was.
The pilots highly valued the mechanics and though Dad wasn't of this Squadron, I know that he spent time in England and that his letters from WWII mirror some of these mechanics experiences.We owe all our service men and women a huge thank you for defending our country.
A moving contemporary account of exile Polish pilots in action in the Battle of Britain. The book gives an understanding of the hurdles they had to jump to even get into action and bravery in deciding the narrow but decisive victory in the Battle.The contemporary writing is supplemented by appendices which informs the reader about what happens to some of the pilots afterwards and puts into context the disappointment that Poland was not truly liberated until 1989.A good read for all those with an interest in this area.
Good fast read. Anyone reading this book during the war time and German occupation of Poland must have been extremely proud with such brave skilled air fights and resistance they shown. Great hope that sooner or later nazis can be crushed no matter what advanced weapons and strategy they had. Amazing memories apart from British "your job is done, goodbye now" attitude later in time...but let's not spoil the spirit of the book. If I'm not mistaken this was a mandatory position in school 20 years ago..perhaps still is, don't know.
Yes, I really enjoyed this factual book on the contribution of the Polish squadron in world war 2. Being British we always hear about the Battle of Britain from our own prospective. I knew that the Polish did contribute to the war effort but hadn't relised that they had their own Squadron. The pictures in the book are bonus. ~I found that the book was quite easy to read and was detailed in facts.
Absolutely loved the enthusiasm and pride the author tried to convey to the readers about the Polish contribution in the Battle of England. Amazing style of writing, I never tired of depiction of the sky battles, chase, victories.
To be honest I really didn't enjoy in particular this book. I felt like I was reading polish propaganda and I haven't learnt anything more than I knew already. But that doesn't mean that I don't respect my nationals!
ujdzie
Great story about pilots from 303rd Squadron, one of Polish squadrons fighting along the R.A.F. pilots. Gripping story.
They fought first in France and then, as recounted here, in England as participants in the crucial Battle of Britain as the RAF defeated the Luftwaffe and turned back the Nazi threat of invasion.The Polish pilots (and one Czech) whose stories are told here were members of 303 Kościuszko Squadron, which became operational on August 31, 1940 as a part of the RAF’s 11 Group – though it had already engaged in aerial combat with the Luftwaffe.
An easy but valuable read about remarkable Polish fighter pilots involved in the Battle of Britain.In the preface Fiedler states that in his book he only wanted to present facts - that's true regarding the content but not necessarily the way of writing. The overly sublime style that was supposed to lift the spirits in times of hardship is hardly enjoyable nowadays and fits an oration rather than a nonfiction book.
Historia polskich lotników podczas Bitwy o Anglię w 1940. Odważni, piękni, szaleni. I brak docenienia przez Anglików.
Jest to książka ciężka do oceny, według mnie należy oddzielić tu to jaką jest książką od tego jaką rolę odegrała w Polsce w czasie okupacji.
Największym problemem jest to jak zostali opisani polscy piloci, brak tu jakiejkolwiek głębi.
Brak tu zagłębienia się w ich postaci.
Jak dla mnie ta książka jest tak płaska, że gdyby na ostatnich stronach pojawił się nazistowski superman to zestrzeliłby go jakiś polski lotnik i to jeszcze z procy, bo jest taki pryncypialny, że nie może do niego strzelić z dział samolotu.
Oddzielając samą książkę od jej roli w okupowanej Polsce, uważam ją za stratę czasu i ogromnego potencjału tej barwnej historii dywizjonu 303.
This is a lovingly prepared update of Fielder's 1942 account of the exploits of a cadre of Polish flyers fighting for the RAF in The Battle of Britain.
While not an exhaustive history of the topic, 303 Squadron vividly describes the day to day exploits of a fearless and skilled group of fighter pilots.[return][return]This new edition of 303 Squadron is lavishly illustrated with period photos and contains an informative appendix of biographies of the pilots described in the book.[return][return]This is a fast and entertaining read for the general reader.
Ciężko jest rozsądzić, w jakim stopniu jest to wszystko prawdziwe, bo faktycznie niektóre akcje brzmią brawurowo. Autor w przypisie do wydania II na początku ostrzega o tym, ale twierdzi, że nie ubarwiał historii. Nie ważne. Liczby mówią same za siebie (choć patosu mógłby mniej do opisu rzucić).Najbardziej podobał mi się fragment z piciem herbatki przez angoli, mimo walki w przestworzach i bombardowania. Autor ładnie rozegrał komentarz do sytuacji - zrobił z ich flegmatyczności jednocześnie wadę i zaletę.Daję 5 gwiazdek, bo jest to chyba lektura i widzę jakieś gimby zaniżają statystyki - a książka zła nie jest, like it.
I'm not gonna rate this book. I just don't know, how. It's not my favorite kind of books, but still... it's about the ones who fought for our freedom. About such brave people. It was kind of boring for me, but just as I said, I don't like this kind of books. I... I truly don't know what to say.
Relatively recently translated into English, this is a firsthand account by one of the Polish fighters in the RAF. Not much new information really, but I appreciate the Polish point of view. Useful appendixes,
As
(1.5)
*lecture*
Interesting story, particularly when you remember all of this 303 Squadron flying took place over only about 6 weeks!
I've finally finished.
No...
