https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10959277-the-future-of-us
I didn't think it was possible, but Jay Asher and Carolyn Mackler managed to fuck up one of the best ideas of 2011.  It's 1996, and less than half of all American high school students have ever used the Internet.Emma just got her first computer and an America Online CD-ROM.Josh is her best friend. They power up and log on--and discover themselves on Facebook, fifteen years in the future.Everybody wonders what their Destiny will be. Josh and Emma are about to find out. How do you fuck up an epic
I'd never read My Butt, the Earth, and Other Round Things, but it was a Printz contender, which must have set it apart from vapid chick-lit like The Princess Diaries and All American Girl.
I don't know why the hell it was a Printz Contender.It's quite possibly the most disappointing book I've ever read.
Why Josh likes Emma over her, I have no fucking idea.
The only reason I finished this book was because I wanted to know if Emma would be unhappy in her future, and if Josh would move on.
If, in 1996, you were given a window of the year 2011 via a magical link to your Facebook profile, would you, A) search as many profiles as you could to find out what happens in the worlds of politics and finance in order to ensure your financial future, B) seek out information on friends and family not only to satisfy your curiosity about what is going to happen to all of them, but to discover if they have any tragedies looming in their futures that you could help prevent, or C) look at nothing beyond your own profile and relationship status and obsess about it endlessly while showing just about zero interest in why and how you have managed to access an internet wormhole into the future or anyone other than your own stupid self?The Future of Us takes a fun -- if slightly Adam Sandler-ish -- concept and does absolutely nothing interesting with it.
Emma dates guys based on how hot she thinks they are, or how good their hair looks.
No. And yet when Josh agrees to ONE date with Sydney, Kellen is all on his butt telling him he's a jerk for accepting when he doesn't even know if he likes her and that no girl deserves to be hurt like that.
4. A guy should wait around and date no one while the girl he likes dates the whole world without a thought to his feelings.Emma goes off to frolic with Cody.
But Josh is not allowed to date people, even though Emma has already rejected him.

What a great combination Carolyn Mackler and Jay Asher make when it comes to delivering a highly entertaining and heartfelt story.
This was pure awesome, and I hope these two authors continue to combine their magic with great stories and fun loving characters.
Yeah, I know it happens but when it’s put down on paper for entertainment, it’s definitely facepalm-worthy.Emma and Josh are an awesome pair of protags and I liked how Asher and Mackler told their story through alternating POVs. Their narrative was filled with fun dialog and moments that had me cringing in a light hearted way.
When I first read the synopsis I thought this was an extremely unique and fun plot.
hmm I don't know.Despite the fact that I found some of the things happening to be absurd, this book was still great.
Read in a few hours, and although the ending was cheesy and predictable it was still a very entertaining book.
I would love to see this as a movie, because it had the feel of the movie "Butterfly Effect" (but not as intense, and with teens) which is one of my favorite movies.I'm not sure how much this book will be enjoyed by everyone, though.
Logging on to your future Facebook account, 15 years ago?
This is what happens to Josh and Emma after Emma gets her first computer in 1996.Growing up in the 90s, I got a real nostalgic feeling while reading this.
It's not a deep, emotional read like Asher's Thirteen Reasons Why, this is a lighter, much more fun, story.From the dual perspective of Josh and Emma, you'll realize that seeing the future may not be as fun as you'd think.
Josh and Emma are both great characters with normal teenage insecurities, which grows tenfold after seeing what their future holds.
Dois garotos que vivem as experiências inerentes a esta fase da vida, sem nenhuma característica especial que os evidencie, salvo um pormenor peculiar -- foi-lhes concedida uma oportunidade de visualização do futuro -- 15 anos depois, Emma e Josh ver-se-ão casados (não um com o outro, mas com parceiros inadequados).Ou seja, dentro de 15 anos, ambos serão vítimas dum futuro que não lhes pertence.
The gist is: The two main characters who used to be best friends (said friendship ended when he misread her and attempted a kiss, only to be rejected), discover their future via Facebook, years before Mark Zuckerburg created the program, in the not so distant past of 1996.Problem #1: There's a huge amount of 1996 nostalgia strewn throughout the book, which is perfect for someone like me, I was 21 in 1996, but troublesome for the intended audience, many of whom weren't alive in 1996.
Through the magic of Facebook editing, which he knows nothing about, his life looks perfect.The girl does not like the guy she ends up with.
Back in the 90s, my parents thought I would be kidnapped by an internet stalker if I spent more than 30 minutes on the computer each day (oh, wait, that isn't true?!) Online dating would be for freaks and geeks only.
So she checks her future facebook page, which would likely have more than just...
Because really it's about whiny teenagers whining about their relationship problems in the 90s, which was so very obvious, because let me mention my scrunchie and my walkman and do all those hip things that hip people did IN THE 90s, guys!
Um Futuro de PresentesAfinal, como se constrói um futuro?Cada instante nado e criado interage com uma grandiosa rede de outros instantes presentes (uns conhecidos, outros incógnitos), onde se gera um instante futuro, que será vivenciado no próximo instante presente.
Este, por seu turno, irá interagir novamente com a fabulosa rede de instantes presentes (uns conhecidos e outros não), gerando-se um novo instante futuro que será experienciado no próximo momento presente, e assim sucessivamente, até às cinzas!...Cada instante presente traz incipiente um momento futuro que será vivenciado num presente subsequente.
I thought the premise sounded intriguing - finding your Facebook account 15 years in the future and seeing what your future looks like, but I couldn't connect with any of the characters, which sometimes happens when I read YA since I'm not the target audience.
I will say that the book was easy to read and interesting enough to hold my attention, but I felt like this one got a little too cheesy and predictable, and I found myself rolling my eyes a lot.
Jay Asher and Carolyn Mackler come at this book a totally different way.
The problem, of course, is that what they do really does affect their future selves - in both minute and life-altering ways that they can actually see.
Characters struggling with knowledge of their futures is not an unusual sci-fi trope, but Asher and Mackler have created a concept that makes it new and relevant to a teenage audience.
But Asher and Mackler have succeeded in creating realistic characters - and maybe that is more sympathetic and right than anything else.
I really liked the premise of this book:*1996*Emma and Josh, two best friends going through a tough stage in their friendship*An AOL CD*Mysterious “Facebook” account that gives Emma and Josh glimpses into their futuresThis story was right up my alley. I love stories that deal with alternate paths of their future based on seemingly small decisions. I think delivered a powerful message in a unique and interesting way. (view spoiler)[(You can miss out on life by constantly looking to the future instead of living in the now)  (hide spoiler)]Great read!!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Example future Emma wrote some status about Glee and Netflix, current Emma says: "I have no idea what I'm talking about, but if Netflix and Glee equals my life, I'm hoping these are good things."Third, I really liked Emma and Josh next door neighbor/best friend thing that had going on and how feeling complicated it.
Josh is so sweet and I so wish I had a next door neighbor like him growing up.I recommend this book to ALL contemp young adult fiction fans, whether you grew up in the 90s or not, I think you would really enjoy this book!
Reto 36- 2018 Book Challenge: Un libro ambientado en la década en que naciste.4,5Media estrella menos debido a que durante la segunda mitad Emma me pareció la persona más molesta de toda la tierra. ¬_¬ Y porque el final fue medio decepcionante. :P
The book alternated between the POVs of Emma and Josh, who have been best friends since they were little kids.
Emma was a caring and good person, but she did come off as a little selfish and seemed unsure of what she wanted at times.
I pretty much had a grin on my face the whole time I was reading, and I was extremely pleased with the ending.The Future of Us is a fast-paced novel about two people who ultimately have to figure out what they want in the future for themselves and from each other.
We get to know better not only one but both of the main characters which in this book are Josh and Emma who are best friends ever since.
Characters: In the first half of the book, Emma was really irritating because of her impulsive decisions but when I went further to the story, she became less irritating and I am glad because I don’t like hating the main characters.Josh is a lovable guy.
A boyfriend material!Another thing that I really like in this book is how the characters were written.
Josh and Emma are both 16 years old and they were written like they are supposed to be.

I find that Emma is one of the most shallow characters I've ever read about simply because her thoughts revolve around guys, 24/7.
Through out the book I feel as a character she doesn't develop at all, and her resolution was about how she never truly opened up about her true self to her former boyfriends.
Emma dates guys based on how hot she thinks they are, or how good their hair looks.
Most of the time she didn't even like the guys she was dating.
She simply dates them so she can have a boyfriend and doesn't once consider their feelings.
Facebook and the internet are going to change that much.The 1996 setting is overdone in places, with too many cultural references (I strapped my Discman to my arm with Velcro, that kind of thing), but either I got used to it or the authors let it go after a while.
But I'm pretty sure they missed the boat in one place, and it's kind of an obvious boat--there are a few references to DVDs being a new format.
I don't think DVDs were around in 1996, certainly not enough to be used and talked about.
So when I picked this up at about 6pm and found that it was exactly what I'd been wanting, I sped through the entire thing cover to cover in the space of three hours (while watching season 2 of The X-Files for that real 1996 feeling).The gist of this book is that in 1996, Emma gets the internet at home for the first time thanks to her next door neighbour and childhood friend, Josh, who brings over an AOL CD-ROM.
All of a sudden, she and Josh can see exactly what their lives will be like 15 years in the future.
The narrators of the novel are 16-year-olds, Emma and Josh, who live next door to each other and have been best friends for as long as they can remember.
I was 15 years old in 1996 so this novel provided me with great memories of the 90's and it made me think about how much technology has changed and now much it has affected our lives.
My sister and her love of the group soul ballad.
And that Cricket doll (with a creepy resemblance to Chucky, the doll possessed by that psycho soul.) Why do I find it funny that it’s a time is marked by what people found popular?
Emma gets a PC and logs on to the facebook fifteen years in the future.
Right now it’s quirky reading how someone in the past reads something so commonly occurring, but give it a few years, and THE FUTURE OF US will likely read odd.
1996 as history and facebook as the future are about all that’s different here.
4,5 stars <3I want to start with honest note, so I must say that I took this book from library without much curiosity.
Even if most of the time I feel disappointed of the book that I have chosen because of other people talks.
I would enjoy to know, does that Facebook showed real future possibilities or the point was just to show Josh and Emma that they have to think about today not about 15 years from now.
Future Emma or Josh?
Neither of us know what could possible go wrong tomorrow and Josh with Emma get ahead on 15 years!
I didn't like The Future of Us.*****PLAIN.The Future of Us was a flop for me.
I hope you are not pining for The Future of Us because it is not worth waiting for.Emma is obnoxious to Josh.
I could not find a single thing to like about her!
He’s honest to his feelings and he confronted his ‘go-with-the-flow’ attitude.
Frankly, Emma doesn’t deserve even a glance from Josh.
But hey, at least Josh called out Emma on her callousness with his feelings.
I read nothing from Mackler; I read 13RW from Asher but I did not detect his writing style and impact in this book.
*Review to come*

Good times.My main issue with the book was I struggled liking Emma.
Instead of her assuming she was unhappy from a few vague Facebook statuses (view spoiler)[about her possibly giving up her career for her husband (hide spoiler)] I would have liked that to be shown to me.
It would have, once again, made the ending stronger.(view spoiler)[I knew the book was headed toward its ending, but I wasn't convinced.
Emma sounded like the shallow one, not Sydney.
Despite the fact that I have yet to give a Jay Asher book more than 3 stars, I like him.
Life long friends who drifted apart since one wanted more then the other, but when Emma gets her first computer and Josh brings over AOL things are put into motion that neither of them would have ever expected.I love time travel books, and while I'm not sure this is considered one in the more traditional sense, I'm still calling it that since Josh and Emma get snip-its of what their lives will be like fifteen years from now.I loved Josh and thought he was just a great, kind and sweet person.
