https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33123864-tangerine
Quite simply, there is nothing to stop it, nothing at all.”Lucy is shocked by her friend’s condition, the way her husband, John, treats her, and is determined to pull the wool from Alice’s eyes and convince her to go back home with her to New York.Alice remains torn, slowly coming around to Lucy’s way of thinking- until her husband disappears…This novel is certainly a slow burner, but the atmosphere alone was enough to keep me invested in the story.
It is 1956, and Alice Shipley has found refuge from her past in Tangier. She’s nearly able to forget about the night a horrible incident altered the course of her life. But an unexpected visit from Lucy Mason – her college roommate who witnessed the event – threatens to expose the truth. Alice is sure she can withstand a brief visit, but the longer Lucy stays, the more Alice suffers from a familiar sense of uncertainty: Either she can’t trust Lucy, or she can’t trust her own mind.  Tangier and L
It’s immediately clear from Tangerine’s opening pages that Mangan’s writing style has a soft, almost feminine quality.
Early reviewers have drawn parallels between Tangerine and books by Gillian Flynn – a comparison that’s just laughable.
Chapters alternate between the first-person perspective of Alice and of Lucy.
Though both women are quite different – Alice demure and trembling, Lucy cunning and independent – nothing distinguishes their narrative voices from one another.
The easy flow of Mangan’s writing style carries Alice and Lucy to an unexpected conclusion – one that will appeal to some and irritate others.
Alice and Lucy, women from different ends of the social and economic strata, were room mates at Bennington College in Vermont, whose relationship fractured after an incident on a dark and stormy night.
John disappears, which heightens Alice's frayed nerves, wondering if her mind is failing her or if Lucy is the source of her travails.Mangan writes a compelling and twisted novel, full of intrigue, with chilling undercurrents of friendships and relationships moving into toxic territory amidst a background of an exotic Tangier and Morocco.
Like a Nestle Toll House Ultimate Chocolate Chip Lovers break and bake cookie that was only in the oven for 3 minutes Christine Mangan’s thriller, Tangerine, is a half-baked mess.
Tangerine is more like a half-baked fugu puffer-fish meal, it’s poor preparation causing the reader severe agony as toxins invade their body.
Alice Shipley, now living in Tangiers, is visited by her old Bennington classmate, Lucy Mason.
Now, back in Tangiers Lucy has shown up again, attaching herself to Alice’s life like nothing dark had ever happened.It all sounds great—the set-up, the locale of Morocco, the time period of 1956.
Maybe Mangan was spellbound by the seven-figure advance for her book.
I think there is so much more that can be added to the plot than just the usual he/she torrid love/hate affair that dominate this genre’s selections.Tangerine is truly my idea of a dreamy, escapist novel.
One year after university, the women meet in the exotic desert setting of Tangier.
Mangan doesn’t linger on descriptions, but the reader is always very aware of the setting and mood and it feels authentic.
The book's cover is sheer perfection for setting the mood and, plus, it reads like film noir.
Lucy sounds exactly like Scarlett Johansson (but it’s not her, I checked).
Set largely in 1950’s Morocco, this book introduces us to two girls who first meet at an exclusive American finishing school.
We’re constantly reminded that she’s haunted by the incident in her past and it’s no real surprise when Lucy turns up, knocking on her door.As the story unfolds we get a real sense of the city itself – as much a character in this book as Alice and Lucy.
And why is Alice so cool with her upon her arrival?It’s here that I get a little confused about my views concerning this book.
I really find this very much alike Patricia Highsmith's work.A tense psychological thriller set in Tangier; Tangerine introduces us the uneasy friendship between Alice and Lucy.
My friendship with Alice was something that John could not understand, but more than that, it was something he did not like.
Our friendship was a detriment to her character, something that he wished to expunge.Alice marries John and they move to Tangier from the States.
What has happened between Alice and Lucy a year ago and why did Lucy came to Tangier?This is not a surprise ending book but a very well-written psychological thriller.
Well this one has it all!-Unreliable narratives ✔-Mysterious pasts; surrounded in secrets, lies, and innuendos ✔-Dark, haunting and atmospheric ✔-Craziness and delusion abound...all the while not knowing which one is truly the psychotic one ✔This was a slow creeper for me, but the tension was tight throughout and I honestly didn't know who was the protagonist versus the antagonist until it was finally revealed just over the halfway mark.Told from 2 POV's covering both past and present, this is a
Well this one has it all!-Unreliable narratives ✔️-Mysterious pasts; surrounded in secrets, lies, and innuendos ✔️-Dark, haunting and atmospheric ✔️-Craziness and delusion abound...all the while not knowing which one is truly the psychotic one ✔️This was a slow creeper for me, but the tension was tight throughout and I honestly didn't know who was the protagonist versus the antagonist until it was finally revealed just over the halfway mark.Told from 2 POV's covering both past and present, this is a disturbing look at friendship, obsession, greed and the lengths people will go to get what they want.Highly recommend!
There is nothing substantive about Christine Mangan's debut novel Tangerine.
The two protagonists who recount the story in alternating chapters--authors, please stop with the indistinguishable dual POVs!--are ghosts of far more fascinating characters found in a Daphne du Maurier or Shirley Jackson novel.
Described by Mangan, her setting of Tangier is less exotic port city perched on the Strait of Gibraltar and more movie set on a second-rate studio's Hollywood lot.
This foreshadowing is just as hollow as Mangan's characters, plot, and setting.If you're searching for female friendship, gaslighting, and a foreign backdrop, read Delphine de Vigan's Based on a True Story instead.
I really fell into Tangerine – a tautly plotted purely character driven psychological drama where the setting is one of those characters – haunting and highly engaging, this is the story of a toxic friendship playing out against the backdrop of Tangier in a time of turmoil..The imagery in this novel is astounding – you really feel like you are walking the streets of Tangier with our main protagonists – but it is so simply done, with no need for exposition or endless descriptive passages, the place is just there, underneath the actions of the characters and you sense it on every page.
Alice has a history of mental instability and she has a difficult time adjusting to Tangier and rarely leaves their apartment.
Alice is troubled by several past events including the deaths of her parents and a mysterious tragedy that occurred while Alice was a student at Bennington.
Lucy, Alice's former college roommate, makes a surprise visit to Tangier.
I've seen this book compared to "The Talented Mister Ripley" but that's really an insult to Patricia Highsmith.
This will be made into a movie, of course, but my favorite part of the book was the cover.
And the way Christine Mangan writes about Morocco and its people is problematic.The novel is set in 1956 in Tangier, Morocco.
Here's an example: "He let out a short laugh and attempting, it seemed, to lighten his tone, though his words were still short and clipped, said, 'I don't know why you even bothered to call me in here, it doesn't seem as if you need my assistance.'" Phrases like "it seemed," "I noticed," and "I thought" are inserted into descriptions unnecessarily throughout.
And speaking of lesbians: (view spoiler)[Did Alice and Lucy sleep together or not?
Set in 1950’s Morocco, this is an atmospheric novel about obsession, jealousy and identity.
Alice is living in Tangiers with her husband, John McAllister.
Besides sneering at her for her refusal to throw herself into the heat and life of the city, and her seeming inability to fill the nursery of their apartment, John leaves her pretty much alone.
Certainly, though, it seems that Lucy is manipulative and that she is determined to keep hold of Alice, now she has found her.This novel has a good setting, with the city of Tangiers very important to the storyline.
Make yourself a steaming cup of mint tea and first admire the cover then be prepared to be transported to Tangier.Alice and Lucy were roommates in college in Vermont and the best of friends when an unfortunate accident happened and served as a wedge between them.
Out of touch for a year imagine Alice's surprise to see Lucy in Tangier.
Determined to rekindle their friendship, Lucy does what she can to get Alice out and explore the beautiful country.
Lucy is hell bent on getting Alice to see how much their friendship was meant to be that we enter murky waters.
"The Talented Ms. R. Hipley" or "Citrus White Female"Nice sloe fizz though not particularly novel in story or setting.
It's perfect for that gulp-it-down-in-one type of reading that seems to lend itself to lazy holidays, and its major strength is Mangan's ability to evoke both the romance of an exotic setting and the feeling of being a stranger in such a place.It's 1956 and recently-married Alice is living in Tangier, Morocco, where her husband John works.
(At their first meeting, Lucy sees Alice's virtually invisible makeup as a symbol of her expensive put-togetherness, while Alice, in her version, remembers wearing a lot of makeup and feeling garishly painted in contrast to Lucy.) The overlaps in their stories are, perhaps, even more interesting than the points at which the accounts diverge.
Alice, a wealthy, fragile, young woman with a history of tragedy and a husband and new home she's not entirely comfortable or content with.
And Lucy, a dangerous, manipulative young lady who seems to lack a conscience and be driven by an unhealthy, violent obsession.The writing is taut and vividly descriptive.
And the plot, using alternating chapters, does a superb job of building tension and unease as it subtly unravels and intertwines an intricate web of lies, secrets, pretense, desperation, infatuation, violence, and murder.Overall, Tangerine is a fantastic debut for Mangan that transports you to another time and place and reminds you that some friendships are not only toxic but often deadly.Thank you to HarperCollins Canada for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review.All my reviews can be found on my blog at https://whatsbetterthanbooks.com
I can’t get into this. I’ve tried the audio and the book. Moving on...

Hitchcock em PapelPermitam que vos apresente o trio que protagoniza esta história:Lucy, John e Alice:Lucy é manipuladora e calculista — uma jogadora psicológica sempre em busca das melhores cartas que são criteriosamente guardadas até surgirem os momentos certos.
Alice é frágil, inadaptada e mesmo quando acompanhada, sentimo-la envolta numa aura de solidão.John é o marido de Alice — superficial, egoísta e cínico, não tem Alice em grande conta.Lucy e Alice foram em tempos melhores amigas, mas algo aconteceu que cortou esse laço que as unia — um acidente algures no passado, que produz em nós um forte ensejo de saltar páginas para desvendar esse enigma provocador.
Tangerine by Christine Mangan was a thriller set in Tangier in 1956. Alice has moved to Tangier with her husband. Some time later her college friend Lucy turns up on their doorstep. Alice is surprised because she has not spoken to Lucy in over a year because of an unpleasant incident that occurred while they were at college. This story was slow burning and atmospheric. It was quite creepy and unsettling in parts.I would like to thank NetGalley and Little, Brown Book Group UK for my e-book in exchange for an honest review.
The story takes place, for the most part, in 1950's Tangiers.
Lucy and Alice are college roommates at Bennington College.
Lucy is calm, dominant, mysterious.
Tensions rise until a terrible accident separates them.Several years later, Alice is married to John and is living in Tangiers.
One day, most unexpectedly, Lucy shows up on her doorstep.
What is Lucy doing there?
I think the tension could have been tighter, had a more vice-like claustrophobia as the noose tightened but, for me, the ending fell a little flat.Still, I enjoyed the ride and very much enjoyed the atmosphere Mangan wove around Tangiers.
Alice returned to England, married John, a man of somewhat dubious character, and moved to Tangier (which of course is where Westerners sojourned to indulge tastes that might well have got them into trouble at home).
For about half of this book I was on tenterhooks to find out whether Alice or Lucy or even both would turn out villains, while the plot unfolded with glacial pace.
As I read I found my sympathies shifting back and forth between Lucy and Alice, till finally the identity of the victim is established.
Thank you so much to Ecco Books for providing my free copy of TANGERINE by Christine Mangan - all opinions are my own.This is a stunning psychological suspense debut that reminds me so much of Patricia Highsmith who I LOVE!
Gorgeous, mysterious prose that you can just sink your teeth into.The story is set in the 1950’s and centers on a friendship between Alice Shipley and Lucy Mason.
Alice moves to Tangier, Morocco with her new husband, and Lucy, an old college roommate, just shows up one day uninvited.
I listened to the audio version of this book narrated by Barrie Kreinik and Erin Mallon. The funny thing is that I thought it was the same person voicing both Alice and Lucy. But, I noticed when the audiobook has started only Barrie Kreinik is listed as a narrator. So, no wonder I thought that it was one person. It didn't help that they voiced was very similar, only with Alice voice being softer. Anyway, that's beside the point, the narrators did a good job with this book. Part of the charm of
The funny thing is that I thought it was the same person voicing both Alice and Lucy.
Sure, we get background events on both Alice and Lucy, but I found myself thinking after I finished the book that I couldn't see them before my eyes while I listened to the book.
Because of the lack of connection with the characters and not feeling the atmosphere of Tangier couldn't I completely be engrossed in the story.However, there was something about the story that made me continue listening, a need to know what really happened when Alice and Lucy went to school and what would happen next.
This was excellent! In the blurb it said this was for fans of Daphne du Maurier and Patricia Highsmith. And this turned out, happily to be exactly right. A story in an evocative setting, this psychological thriller did not disappoint. A tale of obsession, paranoia, insanity and deception, where you fear for one of the characters and marvel at the sheer creepiness of the other. A tale of a toxic and unhealthy friendship if ever there was one. Recommended.Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book. All opinions are my own.
There were admirable aspects to this book - burning one's fingers on the scalding glasses of boiled mint tea "one can get used to anything" and a little nod to the espionage that went on in this city in the 1950s.
I walked into the pages - or in this case the audio - expecting the usual plug-and-play aspects of today's women's psycho-suspense tales.
Google some images and you'll see exactly what she described here.Now, this isn't a suspense story in the 'fun' sense like we experienced with Gone Girl, but more a foreboding tale that reminded me a bit of The Talented Mr. Ripley.
Alice and Lucy were roommates in college. Following a tragic accident, the two friends haven't spoken in years. Alice is now married and living with her husband in Tangier, when Lucy makes a surprise visit.Told with alternating viewpoints, both Alice and Lucy relate their perspectives. Alice is weak and anxious. Lucy is outspoken and manipulative. A clever and mysterious story unfolds, that, admittedly, did not go in a way I was imagining. Loved the setting of 1950s Morocco though. A slow burning historical suspense. Haunting, twisted, and dramatic.
The writing was sometimes a bit bland and insipid (also, both POVs were undistinguishable - if it weren't for the chapter headings, I'd be clueless about who was speaking), but generally I liked the atmosphere and all of the descriptions; you could feel the tension rising in the air as you were reading and Morocco's oppresive summer heat is a good backdrop.The story is one told many times before and the ending was, frankly, bad.
Which lead I'm not certain, for two women headline this show: the pale, fragile, wisp of an expat, Alice Shipley, who hides in the cool shadows of her Tangier apartment, frightened and depressed; and her former college roommate, dark and sultry Lucy Mason, who inexplicably arrives on Alice's doorstep one day and makes herself right at home.
The narrative flits back and forth between the present and the women's recent past together at Vermont's Bennington College, where a friendship went bizarrely astray, with tragic consequences.
