https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24468.On_Gold_Mountain
If you happen to be a member of the See family you will find this fascinating.
If you are researching family histories about the Chinese as a growing factor in California culture in the 19th and 20th century, this book will give you material.
If it weren't the choice of my book club, I could never have gotten through it.
As it was, I scanned the middle 150 pages.See seemed that she just had to get in every piece of information her family members had provided her.
What would Aunt ...say if she left out her choice piece of family history?
When Fong See met a white woman with business sense who needed a job, and eventually became his wife, his store no longer sold underwear, but Chinese antiques that appealed to the wealthy whites.
Most of Fong See's children also had business sense, and when the war put a damper on Chinese Antique Inventory, See's sons made good business decisions themselves to add money to the "pot" that benefitted the whole See family.
As Fong See got older, his Chinese heritage came to the forefront of his very being.
The deck was so stacked against Chinese immigrants then and for the next almost 100 years (immigration almost impossible once the railroad was complete, almost impossible for women to immigrate, illegal to marry a white person, illegal to own property, couldn't become a citizen, etc.
The members of this family were leading actors in Los Angeles Chinatown for several generations, and they were so enterprising, adventurous, and hard-working that I was really inspired.
I'm glad I didn't, though, because then I would have missed out on all the exciting developments and amazing accomplishments of her family over the next 100 years.
A very entertaining and interesting family story, although I wasn't crazy about the writing style, which occasionally reminded me of The Boxcar Children (which is a fine and dandy writing style when you're writing for elementary school students, but this one was full of whores and opium). I also kept finding myself thinking, "How could she have KNOWN what he was thinking at that moment?" so I think either her family interviews were EXTREMELY in-depth or she speculated about a lot of stuff. I took it as sort of a fictionalized memoir, like the Little House books.
This was my introduction to Lisa See, an affair that is enduring and endearing. My own Los Angeles roots, if you can call the San Fernando Valley "Los Angeles", led me on odyssey through familiar places with a whole new perspective. I read it by accident, it being on my daughter's reading list for a college class and handy on the bookshelf. Well, what a gold-mine I've discovered through this chance encounter. Ironically, my daughter never read the book. She missed a gem.
I love this book because it made me look at the immigration issue in a new way.
It's amazing to read many of the political speeches given in the early part of the 20th century about the Chinese and then to realize that many are saying the exact same things about some of the immigrants coming over today.
Don't we learn!
Immigrants are always looked at as a burden but they have always proven the doubters wrong in the past.
This book taught me that lesson.
Some of the things that happen to her family are tough to read.
It begins with the story of Fong See's immigration to the United States and his efforts to make himself a success.
I was not engaged at all in the story.
Though I would not recommend it to anyway as an fast and enjoyable read, it is clear Lisa See put a lot of effort into the research and story of her family's history.
It tells a story, but there is no quick, engaging plot.
The problem I find most with the book is that is was not written to entertain.
It was written to commemorate the See dynasty.
A non-fiction family saga about coming to the US from China and the experience of being an immigrant in America. An interesting twist is that the original immigrant marries an American woman; the Chinese husband, American wife and bi-national children all face different types of discrimination. The family also experiences the "rags to riches" story of financial success in their new country, so the overall story is one of hopes and dreams fulfilled in addition to pain and loss.
Anyone who does so much research for a book and tells good stories deserves five stars.This is a remarkable historic and biographical book that not only covers Lisa See’s own family history, but also the Chinese in America.
I am very fond of Lisa See as a writer and admire her writing style, her ability to tell a good story and her perspective on life as a Chinese American is eye opening.
She doesn’t go into much of her own personal life in this book, but she does recommend “Dreaming: Hard Luck and Good Times in America, which I plan on reading.
Although it took me forever to get through this book, I found it a fascinating read and something that I'll never forget. It is heartbreaking how awful Chinese immigrants were treated in the last 100 years in America. I think it is a national disgrace. And it was still going on in the '50's and '60's! What an eye-opener this family history is. Well done Lisa See.
First, to come clean, the book hits a bullseye with many of my reading interests: 19th century US history, California history (all), biographies and memoirs, culinary books.
There's a lot that was merrily skipped over in grades 3-12 (long story) about California and the US' racist past.
But it's also a sweet and rolicking comedy and drama, by turns, telling the story of a long romance and subsequent betrayal, a wartime caution, and of course, how during the 1970s California tried to kill its young (My PhD in progress).

I think this may be the first or one of the first non-fiction memoirs about a Chinese American family ice read.
Now I understand that while she has red hair and appears Caucasian, she identifies heavily as of Chinese descent given her family's rich history here in California/West Coast as well as overseas in Guangdong.
I appreciate the history lesson of Chinese Americans in Sac, SF, and LA.
Many of these Caucasians have never had contact with a Chinese person, so do your best...You take the best of Chinese culture, you take the best of American culture, and blend the two.
What an amazing story of ambition, love, family honor and tenacity - over many generations. See has done a remarkable job of writing rich stories but with distance that belies her family ties. Personally, I was struck many times as I read this book about the irony of my timing. Some days I didn't know what was worse - the outrage I felt with the day's news or reading her account of the shameful immigration policies of our country (that I thought we had moved past).
I picked this up expecting another fiction book by Lisa See. So I was surprised to find it was the true story. Nevertheless it was fascinating to learn of her history and that of the other Chinese immigrants. The mixed marriage was so unusual at that time.
Detailed and illuminating view of the Chinese immigration experience in the United States. I suspect much of this carefully assembled information will be new to most readers. Lisa See has crafted the book painstakingly and with love.
I'm really glad I read it, as I learned so much about the Chinese immigration here to the United States, and how they contributed to the city of Los Angeles, CA when Los Angeles just started out from the ground up.
I know those cities!" Lisa See, author of this true historical story, talks about her family from late 1800's till present day.
So, I'm sure there's more to her story than even the author knows about.All in all a great book, but be prepared for a long read.
I love Lisa See's novels, and am looking forward to reading The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane.
I love the history of the American West in the 1880's.
This however, was an exhaustive history of her family's lineage dating back to the 1880's.
It was okay in parts, but then almost ended up feeling like the "begats" in the Bible, where it kept including minutiae I wasn't interested in.I was hoping to get more history of the area, conditions, and the building of the American West vs the history of one family down to the specific details of their immigration records interviews (consequently where I gave up).
Anyone else, it might be a difficult read to get through.Still looking forward to The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane, though.
I've been a Lisa See fan since Snow Flower and the Secret Fan but hadn't read her family's story.
She focuses primarily on her great-grandfather's life as the arc of the story, including the three generations of Caucasian women who married into this sprawling Chinese-American family.
A fascinating story of immigration, adaptation, and melding cultures, she weaves the tales told by relatives with her own research, heart and imagination.
It is mainly a story, not a history, yet this Angeleno spent an inordinate amount of time with the simple maps of Old and New Chinatown in downtown LA, tracing the streets I know and those that have disappeared into the mist.
I am a huge fan of Lisa See's fiction, but this one was tough for me to finish.
I just seem to bog down in non-fiction.
This is an interesting story of an extended Chinese/American family and early days in California.
I'm sad that some of the same prejudice lives on today regarding immigrants.
I'm glad to have read it, but I'm so ready to go back to my thrillers/murder-mysteries/historical fiction.
This is why I like my book club, though, I get outside my usual genres to broaden what I read.
This was not an easy read for me, with so many names and historical events. The thing I must enjoyed was that , since I have read almost all Lisa See's novels, I could see exactly where her ideas originated, from her meticulous research of her family history.
I didn’t know anyone could have this many fairly close relatives. Enjoyed the story but could have used some editing.
It was interesting in the first third, in regards to family history and Chinese history in California.But, it devolved into minutia and I felt like she was just transcribing interview notes and/or getting paid by the page.I made it halfway through the book and quit.I enjoy her fiction, but not this.
Approximately 400 pages of family history from Lisa See's great great grandfathers immigration to work on the transcontinetal railroad to her latest sojourn to the small Chinese town of Dimato to meet her great grandfathers and great uncles third and fourth family relatives from their concubines left in China.
Keeping the memebers of the original See family straight was tough but trying to keep up with the second wives, third wives and fourth wives and their children was frustrating and boring.
Lisa See interjects throughout the book facts regarding Chinese discrimination and hardship through the years as this group of immigrants struggle to become citizens with equal rights in this country.
This is the history of the Chinese side of the family of author Lisa See. Through research and talking to relatives, she has been able to trace back the beginnings of her family in America, when her great grandfather arrived from China when he was still in his teens, and pretty much uneducated.
It's impressive that he came to this country with nothing, never learned to read but through determination and hard work became a highly respected and wealthy man.
Overall, it was an interesting book. The author could have left some.of the side trips and chapters about people not really related to the story and there was some excessive detail - like particulars on a shipment. Had it been a bit tighter, it would have been better.
Written in 1994, On Gold Mountain is the historical account of Lisa See's own Chinese family.
I greatly enjoyed reading about 19th century California and the immigrant experience.
The See family thrived due to hard work, ingenuity and the good fortune of Fong See's marriage to a white woman - Lisa See's great-grandmother Ticie.
This is a great story with rich culture, concubines, arranged marriages, prostitution, success in business and also a commitment to family.
This includes not only the See family history, but the historical context of the time and place she's talking about.
Otherwise, I did enjoy this book very much.
I read this to get some background on Lisa See after reading Snow Flower and the Secret Fan and learning the See is descended from a Chinese American family.
I think she does an interesting job of presenting the melding of Chinese and American influences in her family.
I think that See does a fine job of telling the story of Fong See's family but then the narrative turns slightly choppy as she draws closer to the present and is relating more documented fact.
Still, a very accessible and interesting read that kept me turning pages even when I knew the outcome.
I like how she tells a story.
This book was good, but not great.
It taught me lot about the lives and problems of the Chinese people who came to the West Coast, originally to build the railroads and then to stay in the US and become part of the fabric of California and the US.
Many reviewers found this book boring......I never felt it was at all boring, but it also did not soar.
i wanted to see the buildings and people...there were some photos, but I think the author coukd have made them live through her words by showing rather than telling.
If you've enjoyed any of Lisa See's novels, you will be happy to hear that although this story is based on historical events, it reads like one of her novels, with quite a lot of suspense, drama and even laughter.
I was especially impressed with her ability to look critically at the actions of elders she grew up with.
It is often easy to either wholly demonizes or idealize the adults we grew up with, but See is able to tell their story with an empathetic truth that upholds their dignity.
