https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1022957.A_View_of_the_Harbour
The characters range in age and perspective: a retired sailor in his sixties who takes a room at the local pub, pretends to have painterly aspirations, and insinuates himself into the lives of a number of Newby’s women; a married, middle-aged doctor and the beautiful, idle divorcee he’s in love with (his wife’s childhood friend); the doctor’s daughter, an odd girl believed to be “slightly touched”, who is nevertheless onto her father’s infidelity; the doctor’s wife, a writer so immersed in her fictional world that she’s oblivious to what’s going on right under her nose; a lonely young war widow who fears the dusty figures of famous personages in the waxworks she and her husband used to run; and, finally, a physically incapacitated, tyrannical elderly woman who runs her adult daughters ragged and lives to gossip.
Or “faint” than “vague”, and what is to follow; putting one word alongside another, like matching silks, a sort of game.’The characters are well developed, not too many for confusion and we have an affair, a local gossip who monitors comings and goings, a local public house and its denizens, a doctor and his wife (the doctor having the affair with wife’s divorced best friend who lives next door, a rather dashing but slightly aging artist who is definitely a hit with the ladies, various younger elements who are discovering what life is about and a few minor characters.
. .-- 'Are you warm enough up here?' she asked, looking vaguely around.-- 'Nice hats!' Iris said vaguely, staring at the French sailor.-- She had always been aware of the concentration of God upon her, an omnipotent God, vaguely, and yet, over small matters, still at her beck and call.-- The doctor retreated and faded a dozen times and instead vague memories of her childhood, her own childhood, ranged across the landscape of her mind.-- You are so full of vague thoughts about death and God that you had completely forgotten the important things.I know from my reading of Taylor's Angel, that she does not carelessly use a word.
Sirviéndose de una pintoresca localidad pesquera como escenario y los primeros años tras la Segunda Guerra Mundial como contexto histórico, Taylor despliega ante el lector un lienzo donde se suceden de manera sutil y siempre significativa hermosos brochazos que nos permiten acceder a los rincones más secretos de sus habitantes.
De este modo, el argumento de la novela se convierte en una apasionante y lúcida observación sobre la dinámica de grupos que encandila por su autenticidad y complejidad latente, todo ello enmarcado en un entorno costumbrista muy logrado.
Qué injusto que la autora no tenga detrás una verdadera legión de lectores porque Una vista del puerto es, para mí, una de las revelaciones del año.
Of course the was going to read things into the attentions of a man who bought her drinks, walked her home, sympathised with her.But Bertram was more interested in the rather more sophisticated Tory Foyle.
She loved her family, of course she did, and she did what she should, but she felt detached and guilty at the way her work called her away from them.But Prudence, the elder of those two daughters, had noticed.And maybe Mrs Bracey would notice too.
She observed the comings and goings of her neighbours so carefully, she loved to gossip., and her failing health often gave occasion to call out the doctor.These, and other lives, go on behind the closed doors of this faded seaside town.
A brilliant study of a human loneliness?
A moving story about perfectly not perfect people?
The most important however is the way as Taylor is showing us characters of this story.
Each one has own loneliness, Tory, Beth, Robert, Lily, Iris, Mrs Bracey, Maisie, Bertran, Prudence, but also Mr Lidiard, the librarian, Ned and Stevie.
After years of building up each unique personality, in the end there is no moment of putting lines beneath the sum and adding up to see what it all amounts too."I have fallen in love with Taylor's writing after The Sleeping Beauty.
Now, I am sure I will love each her book.
The thing that frustrated/annoyed me at the beginning of the book ended up being exactly what kept me turning pages for the majority of what ended up being a very enjoyable read. So many characters! So much flitting from scene to scene. But gradually they each become real people who share life in a small English seaside town at the end of WWII. My second Elizabeth Taylor novel, and one that sat on my shelf for years. Time well spent in this world.
I reviewed this for Full Stop: http://www.full-stop.net/2015/07/06/r...
Seen from afar, the lighthouse merely struck deft blows at the darkness, but to anyone standing under the shelter of its white-washed walls a deeper sense of mystery was invoked: the light remained longer, it seemed, and spread wider, indicating greater ranges of darkness and deeper wonders hidden in that darkness.(You can see why much has been made of Taylor’s debt to Virginia Woolf.)It’s also interesting to see the village as a waystation between old-fashioned customs and modernity, with both the good and bad connotations such a status conveys:life was less varied now, she thoughts, less rich, the streets less crowded – gone the lamplighter and those yellow, spreading gas-lights; gone the organ-grinder with his wretched precocious monkey; gone the drunkenness, the church-going, the wife-beating, the wonderful funerals, the social calls to see the corpse ...
Oh, that poignant moment when you are enjoying a book so much and are totally immersed in the lives of the characters and what is happening to them, and then you realise you are trapped between wanting to read another page even though it means that you are one page nearer the end. I can only be thankful that I have only read 2 of Elizabeth Taylor's novels and have plenty more to discover.
She knows people are pretty sad and messed up and shallow and selfish and foolish most of the time, and she sees them with a steely clarity that can be a bit disconcerting at times.
She also feels no compunction to tidy up all her narrative threads; there are no clear answers or tidy conclusions in this book, just people muddling on with things.
Lily's fate is only suggested at the end, but the direction she's heading is pretty clear, and very sad.
Excellent! Have been meaning to read Elizabeth Taylor for years and am so glad that I did finally get round to it. This is a fabulous masterclass in brilliant writing. Of all the 35-ish books I've read this year, this is probably the most elegantly written, while remaining totally accessible. The lives of a group of people in a small seaside town just after WWII might not seem the most promising material with which to work, but in Taylor's expert hands it sings.Anyone considering a career in writing should read this book.
I've never read nor even heard of Taylor (not the actress!) before and I was pleasantly surprised.
Taylor seems to fall into a category of crusty-classed stuffy British authors that I've always tended to avoid (like Waugh or Amis), but she is anything but.
In fact, it's hard to pin her down by way of comparison.
Maybe the film "Short Cuts"?
There's adultery, retired sailors, wax museum owners, bedridden gossips, and young girls who hate poetry and love.It's both disturbing and lovely and simple, hence the Altman comparison.
First published in 1947, A View of the Harbour was Elizabeth Taylor’s third novel, a beautifully-crafted story of the complications of life, love and family relationships, all set within a small, close-knit community. The setting is Newby, a sleepy, down-at-heel harbour town on the English coast a year or so after the end of WW2. In some ways, Newby reminds me of Hardborough, the fictional town in Penelope Fitzgerald’s novel The Bookshop, as it’s the sort of place where everyone – with one or two notable exceptions – knows everyone else’s business.You can read my review here: https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2018...
Miraculous technique. The sweep of the lighthouse becomes the mover of the novel. It compels the structure -- a series of fluidly interlinked scenes from lives in a backwater of the British coast -- and the circling progression of the novel. There's something of Woolf in the structure, though not in the wonderfully wrought but conventional prose.I did not always find the psychology of the characters compelling, but the novel's quiet, shifting movement fascinated me throughout.
He disfrutado mucho leyendo este libro, mi primer contacto con Elizabeth Taylor. Me quedo con ganas de descubrir más novelas y personajes de la autora.
As the NYRB introductions tend to be spoilerish, I stopped reading shortly after this comment, but I think the idea is that this is not as dark as her others.
That is certainly true compared to the two other titles I have read.
She does a magnificent job exploring the characters of these people while solidly giving us the flavor of a small harbor town post WWII.
The View of the title is a view of four households who live in the older part of a harbor town called Newby.
As this is one of her lesser read titles, I hesitate to give this 5-stars.
Into this community where little ever happens, comes retired naval officer Bertram, “insinuating” himself into their lives, and trying to paint a view of the harbour for Ned Pallister the landlord of The Anchor.
Mrs Bracey watches her view of the harbour, and the inhabitants of the town, and waits to die.As so often with Elizabeth Taylor her characters are rather flawed, maybe not always likeable – although I liked Tory and Beth, they seemed very real.
Elizabeth Taylor herself had a secret relationship with a man for many years; here she is writing about a woman whose husband and friend are betraying her.
Elizabeth Taylor’s A View of the Harbour is another of the gorgeous books which I received for Christmas.
A View of the Harbour was first published in 1947, and was Taylor’s third novel.
Ridiculous as it may sound to those who have not yet encountered any of Taylor’s remarkable characters, they are built up so realistically that one often comes to believe that those like the aforementioned Lily and Prudence would make the most wonderful friends.I greatly admire Taylor’s writing, and in this novel particularly, it is unfailingly beautiful.
All that’s left is a furniture shop with chipped china, a tobacconist whose windows are full of faded postcards and gifts that no-one wants to buy, a wax works that is clinging to the past, a second hand clothes shop where the frocks hang dejected and unloved and a harbour where rusty wire is full of seaweed and tattered rags.There’s Robert the doctor who is in love with his wife’s best friend, a beautiful divorcee called Tory who lives next door.
She’s a control freak who wants her daughters – and everyone else -dancing attendance on her while she watches what goes on outside the house.
La vista del porto del titolo non si riferisce solamente al quadro che Bertram, ufficiale della marina in pensione, cerca di dipingere, ma anche all'affresco dell'autrice dell'umanità che popola la cittadina costiera di Newby.
Bertram è qui perché vuole reinventarsi come pittore, ma finisce con il prestare più attenzione ai suoi nuovi vicini di casa che alle sue creazioni artistiche, e la sua attenzione funge da catalizzatore per tutta una serie di situazioni.
Come dice Simon nella sua bella recensione (http://www.stuckinabook.com/elizabeth...) sembra che i personaggi siano divisi tra chi ha spirito di osservazione chi invece procede per sua strada inconsapevole di ciò che lo circonda...

Vintage Elizabeth Taylor. Lots of passion, lots of pain, star-crossed lovers, betrayal, old age and youth.
This is an enjoyable read despite having very few likeable characters and having the quite depressing setting of a post war shabby coastal town in England.
3,5 ⭐ Una novela coral y costumbrista de lo más agradable.Reseña completa: http://perdida-entrelibross.blogspot....
3,5 ⭐️ Una novela coral y costumbrista de lo más agradable.Reseña completa: http://perdida-entrelibross.blogspot....
Elizabeth Taylor spins a tale of ordinary people - the doctor and his writer wife, the lonely divorcee next door, a bedridden retired shopkeeper whose two daughters dance attendance on her, a retired seaman who is painting the harbour.
Death is another recurring theme - a recent widow struggles with loneliness, Mrs Bracey watches the harbour as she suffers her final illness, Beth writes heartrending death scenes for her novels but shrinks with horror from the idea of attending a real funeral.Taylor's skill lies in how she pulls these themes and ideas together with little sweeps of her pen, unfinished thoughts and actions which are surprisingly revealing, seemingly incongruous asides that are actually sharply observed.
In Elizabeth Taylor’s third novel, the author presents a large and varied cast of characters living in a post-WWII English harbor town, with its fishing boats, lighthouse, pub, secondhand clothes shop, doctor’s house, down-at-the-heels wax museum, and closed-for-the-season Fun Fair. While parts of the story were laugh out loud funny, in others, every day events took a tragic path. My favorite characters were definitely the children: Stevie with her unexpected passionate outbursts and Edward with his unintentionally funny letters from school. 3 1/2 stars.
We get a whole cast of different characters, a local artist, a local writer, a single mother, a war widow, a doctor, and town drunk, and various other figures that come and go into the narrative.
You can imagine a television production of this novel starting off in the first two chapters showing us the different figures of the story and lightly staying with them long enough to understand a little about their situation, their basic character, and their function in the story.

Elizabeth Taylor deserves to be more widely read - particularly by anyone who enjoys Barbara Pym, Anita Brookner or even Jane Austen - so acutely does she observe her characters and with such biting humour.
There are no earth shattering events in this novel; it is more an observation of a small community in a decaying seaside town and the effect the arrival of one elderly man has on the small group Taylor focuses on.
I want to write like Ms Taylor!
