https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/872302.E_Pluribus_Unicorn
Muy buena colección de cuentos. “Un plato de soledad”, “El mundo bien perdido” y “El osito de felpa del profesor” son tres maravillas.
Sturgeon hizo de todo, desde trabajar en un circo hasta embarcarse como marino, pero fue tras la segunda guerra mundial cuando empezó a ejercer de verdad como escritor, llegando a convertirse en el mejor cuentista de la gran Edad de Oro. Y sin tener en cuenta las barreras de los géneros, está considerado como uno de los mejores cuentistas norteamericanos del siglo XX.En palabras de Ray Bradbury: "Miraba a Sturgeon con secreta y persistente envidia.
Habló con el oído, moviendo unos labios diminutos dentro de los pliegues de carne porque tenía la boca llena de sangre." Extraño cuento, que provoca una sensación inquietante en el lector, al no saber lo que está pasando realmente hasta las últimas páginas del relato.
Complete withgratuitous references to Sturgeon’s “lovely wife.” Thank goodness I’dalready read Sturgeon, or this intro might have turned me off…"The Silken-Swift" - This is the story that justifies the cover art.
But are they dreams or visions of things to come?"Bianca's Hands" - a young man develops a disturbing obsession for a retarded woman.
"It Wasn't Syzygy" - A man meets a woman who seems perfect for him - almost too perfect to be true.
Some good moments, but probably the weakest story of the collection."Fluffy" - May be the nastiest cat portrayed in fiction!
However, it's hard to convey in a brief summary how really good these stories are.
This was the first Sturgeon I ever bought and the second I ever read.
(The first was the short story "The Silken Swift" from Unicorns, also collected here.) I got in Toys R Us. Does Toys R Us still sell books?
I think they stopped even before I got too old for it to be a good place to get me presents, and even before then their book selection had declined into innumberable "updated" Nancy Drew books.
(I preferred bookstores anyway.)Um!
I am somewhat less fond of "The Silken Swift" now that I actually know what rape is.
Mind you, I was very happy in that limited knowledge -- and yet I NEVER, for many, many years, got around to finishing the book (I've a spotty history with giving books the time they deserve, generally and in particular).
Instead, over those years, I simply returned, again and again to the cherished favorites within this 13-story collection -- which I LOVED as much as any short stories I had ever read.
I have now, just within the last year, finished the entire collection (revisiting some of my favorites, of course).
This book contains the following short stories: The Silken Swift; The Professor's Teddy-Bear; Bianca's Hands; A Saucer of Loneliness; The World Well Lost; It Wasn't Syzygy; The Music; Scars; Fluffy; The Sex Opposite; Die, Maestro, Die!; Cellmate; and A Way of Thinking.Interesting, imaginative, and often disturbing, this collection of shorts by Sturgeon is perhaps one of the best I've read.
Una gran colección de cuentos fantásticos y de ciencia ficción. Todos tienen una temática muy interesante y te hacen pensar sobre el tema durante un tiempo, las ideas son muy originales aunque en dos de estos cuentos se repite una misma idea.
This is the second collection of Sturgeon short stories I have read thus far, and it most certainly will not be the last; since the man is a dashed literary miracle!
I always find Theodore Sturgeon to be a great stylist of the short story form, and many of the heady tales in this magnificent collection of giddy phantasmagoria are tinged with dark genius!
I can heartily recommend 'E Pluribus Unicorn' to all those who appreciate great literature without reservation.
I just love the fact that Mr. Sturgeon is such an eclectic writer; a genre polymath able to write so fluently in any idiom.
oh man. This guy has to be one of the most amazing sci-fi writers I’ve ever read. This is a book of his short stories, and I need to find more of his writing. One of my favorite things to think about was a description of a guy whose thinking process was a little bit different. A girl who he broke up with threw a fan at him. Most people would throw the fan back at the girl. He threw the girl at the fan... So good.
This was probably more like a "3" in the grand scheme of things, but short fiction doesn't always work for me, but this DID, so it gets a four.Creepy stories! Not so much science fiction. But still interesting. And beautiful in many places. This dude has a real way with words (which I do not, obvs, I can't believe I just used that phrase,) which I was not expecting from a famous science fiction author.I shall seek out more Theodore Sturgeon.
Sturgeon's Law (heavily paraphrased):90% of science fiction is crud. But then, 90% of everything is crud. This stuff is in the other 10%.Theodore Sturgeon was one of the most influential and prolific fabulists of the mid-20th Century. In an era when most writers of speculative fiction (by which I mean to encompass fantasy, horror, science-fiction, magical realism, slipstream—all of the many varieties of fiction that aren't limited to our tired old reality) seemed to be content to keep repeating
There's a feudal manor, a village, and a beautiful pool in between; two maidens vying for the same young man's favor; and, yes, a unicorn.That one's swiftly followed up by "The Professor's Teddy Bear," an entirely different sort of story, in which precocious Jeremy, four years old, tells his teddy bear, "I will be five feet, six and three-eighth inches tall.
Hay un sin fin de mundos inquietantes, de personalidades increíbles, de historias y tramas que se tuercen como rizomas hacia el centro de la tierra y que luego brotan en algún punto inesperado en los cuentos de este monstruo.Si algo le gusta hacer a Sturgeon es ir descubriendo poco a poco los rincones de sus cuentos.
Todo ello, sin recurrir —casi nunca— a artilugios posmodernos, ni caricaturas literarias; hay cierto aire de linealidad y realidad concreta en sus libros, ¡y vaya que hablamos de mundos con telépatas, sicigia, unicornios, vudú y música!Hay un tratamiento muy original de La Ternura, de El Amor, de Lo Humano en los relatos de Ted; un asomo de...
What a creepy and disturbing mix of Sci-fi and horror stories!
I took this book on vacation with me and found myself snatched from the peace and quiet of the northwoods and into the strange "worlds of mystery and monsters, terror and ethereal love, sudden death and miraculous life, jet-propelled shivers and humor".
Creepy strange!
A couple of the more scary ones (The Professor's Teddy Bear and Bianca's Hands) will definitely cause some nightmares.
The tales that really stuck with me were: The Silken-Swift, The Professor's Teddy Bear, Bianca's Hands, Fluffy, and Die, Maestro, Die. If you are a sci-fi or horror story lover, this book is a "must read", if you can get your hands on it.
Read "A Saucer of Loneliness". The problem begins when no reply comes.
Some bizzare stories in this collection ... but the poem in 'The Saucer of Loneliness' just touches you.
I fell in love with the person who gave me "Saucer of Loneliness" to read. Lived with him 13 years, till he died. I still cry when I read the end.
Wow. A book of short stories, and they truly are amazing. Mostly disturbing, so know that up front. But absolutely fantastic!
Hey!
This was pretty great!
Largely solid fantastical (often dark, sometimes verging on weird tales) stories that ALSO managed to avoid being steeped in racism and misogyny!
Usually I have to look the other way, at least a little bit, if I'm going to have any chance of enjoying science fiction and fantasy from the seventies, but this one was fine!As with all collections of short stories, some were amazing, some were lackluster and most were at least okay, but Sturgeon is a strong writer so most were on the great side of good.
Definitely would recommend.Also, by the way, not nearly as fluffy as the cover/title led me to expect.
Magnífica recopilación de relatos. Theodore Sturgeon me ha parecido como combinar la originalidad de Fredric Brown con el análisis de la mente humana de Phillip K.Dick, y todo en un tono oscuro casi Lovecraft.En la biografía he leído que este hombre fue una gran inspiración para Ray Bradbury, y se nota muchísimo. Tanto en estos relatos como en las novelas de Bradbury vemos ese aspecto chungo de la ciencia ficción. Asesinatos, locura, odio y magias oscuras. Si te gusta Ray Bradbury, te encantará Theodore Sturgeon.
This is one of the books that most impressed me.Do you remember stories that just burned into your mind, so you would never forget them? This book contains such stories.Sturgeon developed an art of telling which is amazing in my opinion; nothing ever compared to it.The wording and phrases went deep under my skin; mostly simple sentences which describe a situation just perfectly, but always without a kitchy touch.
Hermoso. Y el último cuento, un gran final
Read in Japanese. 「一角獣・多角獣」 Some of the stories were missing. I wonder why Japanese translator omitted those.The Silken-Swift 一角獣の泉: Folktale-likeThe Professor's Teddy-Bear 熊人形: Love it. Bit scary. I guess this'll make a great movie.Bianca"s Hands ビアンカの手: Reminded me of Otsu-Ichi's novelsA Saucer of Loneliness 孤独の円盤: Beautiful story about love.It Wasn't Syzygy めぐりあい: How do you pronounce "Syzygy"? But it was interesting story.Fluffy ふわふわちゃん: LOVE it! (Maybe because it's about a cat)「あの面は、だれも読みたが
I wonder why Japanese translator omitted those.The Silken-Swift 一角獣の泉: Folktale-likeThe Professor's Teddy-Bear 熊人形: Love it.
I guess this'll make a great movie.Bianca"s Hands ビアンカの手: Reminded me of Otsu-Ichi's novelsA Saucer of Loneliness 孤独の円盤: Beautiful story about love.It Wasn't Syzygy めぐりあい: How do you pronounce "Syzygy"?
But it was interesting story.Fluffy ふわふわちゃん: LOVE it!
(Maybe because it's about a cat)「あの面は、だれも読みたがらない本のカバーみたいだ」The Sex Opposite 反対側のセックス: I can imagine it as a movie.Die, Maestro, Die!
死ね、名演奏家、死ね: I wonder if any of the real band members think like this...Cellmate 監房ともだち: I imagined it with the Alcatraz.A Way of Thinking 考え方 : The title says it all.
To kill a human kill a doll.
To kill a doll...
I enjoy short story collections that really work as, well, a gestalt.
I had to say it, it's Sturgeon.
I think this was one of the first things I read of Sturgeon's, and it has stuck with me every since.
I was a hapless teenager, just getting into the renaissance science fiction period, and I ran across this short collection and jumped in.
Having already found a liking for Poe, Heinlein, and Bradbury, I was delightfully frightened right away.I can remember using "Bianca's Hands" for an assignment in college, and completely enjoyed freaking out my classmates.
That one has stuck with me, still gives me the shivers.Reread it every once in awhile to keep it fresh.
Sturgeon is a master writer. There’s something about his prose that is truly remarkable without being distracting to the plot. “E Pluribus Unicorn” is a collection of short stories that are mostly horror, with a little SF and Fantasy thrown in. Each story is incredibly imaginative and so well written, it’s difficult to move on to the next story without taking a break. Come visit my blog for the full review…http://itstartedwiththehugos.blogspot...
I couldn't have been much more than 10 when I read these stories. "the Professor's Teddy Bear" and "Bianca's Hands" were frightening tales that were probably the inspiration for a few of my worst nightmares. I'd love to find this book again. It was lost long ago.
I like Sturgeon's writing style but this book of short stories is not quite there. I had difficulties finishing most of the stories. Mostly because they had rather long development for a short story and weak endings.
This collection has been on my shelves so long. The edition I've marked here is not the one I have, but what does the cover matter when the stories inside are by Theodore Sturgeon? This is how short stories are supposed to be written.
Un Sturgeon en su mejor forma en una colección simplemente hermosa.
Absolutely LOVED Saucer of Loneliness.
My review from May 30, 1998
