https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021622-dreaming-in-cuban
She ended up choosing the easy road and married Jorge del Pino, who would father her three children: Lourdes, Felicia, and Javier; however, her love for Gustavo never wavered, and on the eleventh of each month, Celia continued to write him a love letter for the next twenty five years.
While not as obvious as magical realism found in other books that I have read, I did enjoy how magic brought this sometimes crazy family together during trying times.Like Allende, Garcia's writing features strong female protagonists in a machismo culture in the forms of Lourdes, Felicia, Pilar, and to a certain extent Celia.
Pilar, the youngest woman followed in the novel, is supposed to be the hope of the future, but she's just as bad as all the rest.
Ever.I liked Felicia a bit more, but I get the feeling that she was crazy simply because Great Literature requires a woman being driven crazy by her sexual desires that nice women don't have.
Actually, what happens is that Felicia becomes Angel from Rent except she doesn't come back at the end and make it all better.
I can’t believe I never knew about her works before!
The story follows the lives of 4 women; the grandmother who still lives in Cuba and believes in the revolution, her 2 daughters, one who stays in Cuba and is involved in the Santera religion and the other who moved to New York, as well as her granddaughter, a rebellious teenager into abstract painting and punk rockAlthough I enjoy many genre of literature, and the past 2 years I’ve discovered contemporary fantasy, Magical realism is still will always be my favourite.
On opposite sides of the revolutionary fence, neither will budge in their views or actions, despite the consequent rupture in their relationship and the knock on effect it has for others in the family, forced to take sides.Pilar understands her grandmother and hates that the mother and daughter's political beliefs prevent her from being closer to either of them.
Though none of these letters were ever sent, they continue to be written over the years, a place where Celia shares her innermost thoughts, desires and regrets.Her second daughter Felicia never leaves Cuba, marries, has children and at a certain point becomes somewhat deranged, remarrying twice in quick succession, attracting tragedy from the moment of her second marriage.
The story follows three generations of Cuban women, jumping forward and backward in time, hopping back and forth between Cuba and New York, and switching between a variety of narrative styles (i.e. third person, first person, and epistolary).
(view spoiler)[In the end a grandchild who has grown up in New York visits her grandmother for the first time in twenty years (she was a baby when she left).
(hide spoiler)] It's a story of dysfunctional relationships made worse by the political separations caused by the isolation of Communist Cuba from the USA.
When I saw that this book was a must read for anyone interested in Cuba or Cuban history I absolutely knew I had to pick it up.In all honesty I was just downright dissapointed.
While Garcia's writing style isn't horrible, it is still far from great in my opinion.
The sentence structure is choppy and I could tell the author had trouble conveying any coherent idea.
So, between the horrible sentence structure, the lack of distinct voices and awful characters.
I dislike every single character in the book and am having problems caring what happens to them.
I feel like there is better literature out there about the Cuban diaspora that is not so all-encompassingly bleak.
Perhaps she should write a book of essays about the subject, because she seems particularly eloquent as a nonfiction writer.Another huge problem I have with this book, that I am just realizing, is that it's a book about Cuba and being Cuban, and yet Cuba does not at all feel like a character in this book.
I am in awe of what Garcia can create with language.
This is one of the most inventive books I have ever read.
Unfortunately the structure was a little too inventive for me.
The back and forth between characters, points of view and timeframes caused me to lose track and lose momentum for the story.
She created so many bizarre characters and situations in glorious, precise detail that I wanted to spend more time with each of them but their vividness vanished when I turned the page to find another one waiting for me.But the color—both literal and figurative!
read during my AIG YearsI Remember: a tale of a family during the Cuban Revolution...
a focus on the voices of women...
epic in scope, intimate in perspective...
gorgeous prose...
warm and humanistic and full of love & anger & death & life.
must read this one again.i originally read this so that i could have something literary to discuss with my very political roommate who worked at Global Exchange, an ardent feminist and a person who practically worshipped Cuba.
turns out she scorned fiction and was only into non-fiction, so i ended up talking to myself about it.
feh!
I am reading this but feel 80% sure I've read it before. This is because I have either a.read it before or b. it is so very similar to her other book the Aguero Sisters. I will determine upon completion.-----Upon completion I am still only 80% sure I've read this before. Perhaps I merely dreamed it.
There’s a Shell station missing the “S.” -hell Open 24 Hours (31)“…their thoughts tumble together like gems in the polishing, reaching their hard conclusions.” (46)“The familiar is insistent and deadly.” (99)“believers can accomplish many things because the dead are benevolently inclined toward the living.
I trust only what I see, what I know with my heart, nothing more.” (185)“My father used to say that there are forces in the universe that can transform our lives if only we surrendered ourselves.” (186)“Freedom, Abuela tells me, is nothing more than the right to a decent life.” (233)
It began:"Celia del Pino, equipped with binoculars and wearing her best housedress and drop pearl earrings, sits in her wicker swing guarding the north coast of Cuba."That one line could carry so much—character, setting, ambience, suspense—is a testament to Garcia's incredible writing.
I wanted to keep spending time with the characters, and even the next day, and the next after that, I found myself missing them, hung over from the book's language and imagery.The next day, during my fiction class at the University of Miami, I told my professor that I’d be switching my concentration from poetry to fiction.
I did my senior thesis on this book, and I loved it.
For those English and Spanish speakers.
The relationships Christina Garcia creates between the different generations, and the circular motions in which she presents their stories and intertwines them is like poetry.
And reading it in Spanish is even more poetic...though Garcia originally tried to write the novel in Spanish, and said she could not, and ended up writing it in English, I still think the translation is beautiful.
I really enjoyed the book, and loved how the author obviously relates to Pilar and her plight, as well as taking a good look at Cuba.
I really enjoyed the book.
I had started this, but had been forced to put it aside before reading all of it.
Now I have gone back to it.
I love the lines.
I enjoy the mixture of fact and fiction.
The fictional aspect allows the author to play with the details, descriptions and words.
The author is a poet with her words.
It is about the consequences of the Cuban Revolution, how it played out on its people.
It is the story of a Cuban family, divided by politics and geography.
This is a must read if you enjoy magical realism.
1.5 stars because I feel bad giving just one.I simply did not enjoy this book.
Their story alternates Cuba and New York City as their background and we are like an audience admiring the show of their life.There are a few reasons I did not love the book.- The characters were poorly developed and I didn't feel sympathy for any of them.
I was interested in maybe two of them at different moments, but I just didn't feel they were the right kind of characters is that possible?
I don't know.- This book made me feel sad.
The book was very interesting and sometimes challenging to read because García switched among the stories of the women and within those stories, she often changed the perspective from first person to third person or vice versa.
Nonetheless, I liked this narrative technique was an interesting way for the reader to gain perspective on the different characters.
I thought it was a great read and would recommend it to anyone who is interested in the history of Cuba and how the Revolution affected the lives of Cubans or the struggle to find identity between different cultures.
Perhaps if there was an attempt to show the rush of history is always happening, but there is no evidence in the text of that intention.And, much Lou Reed "fans sniff each other out," the use of his Take No Prisoners album meant to, most likely, show the character of Pilar as being among the coolest of the cool, swinging the wealthiest cultural capital in NYC's underground.
This was a really well written story about the struggle of the women and their reality to the present and the past but also to each other. A great story.
I really liked this book. It gave good insight to life in Cuba, immigration in NY and Miami and the role of women
I feel that method of writing isn’t necessary to get the point across.The novel describes the lives of three generations of a Cuban family prior to and since the revolution that overturned their country and redefined everything.
And finally, growing up in the U.S., Lourdes’ daughter Pilar embodies the conflicts of all the generations, feeling old at twenty-one, wishing to embrace the Cuban roots her parents left behind, and hearing the voice of her Abuela Celia in quiet moments.In the forms of various character viewpoints and the long-running letters of Celia to a past lover, the novel tells many details that make the results of revolution a living story.
Oh, this makes the... what? 10th time now? Granted, I teach this book in one of my classes, else I probably would not have read it as often, but each time I honestly do find new points to discuss with students. More importantly, the students always bring up amazing points that have never occurred to me!It does get better each time. If I could bump my rating up a half star, I'd do so.
So even though her family fled Cuba when she was only two years old, we thought her first novel would fit the bill.It is a wonderful novel and like The Glass-Blowers, deals with the impact and consequences of revolution on a family.
My favorite character was Celia, the grandmother, who remained in Cuba and was a supporter of Castro and his hopes for the country.
A second daughter remained in Cuba and is a wild woman who dabbles in a Cuban mystical religion originated by slaves and succumbs to it in the end.Then there is Pilar, daughter of Lourdes and an example of a 1970s daughter of immigrants in New York's art scene.
A beautifully woven story of a family torn apart by politics, counties and secrets. The beginning was a little disjointed and sometimes confusing but as the book went on it call came to a beautiful ending. It definitely makes me want to reread!After reflecting over night I really identified with all the women in the book. No matter how odd their behavior. Women are complicated and if we could wrap ourselves up in understanding then perhaps we wouldn’t dream of Cuba. I really enjoyed these women.
I wanted to like this but it didn't happen. I'm surprised I finished because I wanted to quit several time. I had hope I guess. I felt confused at times. Many characters, time jumping, and letters to a character I didn't really understand.
Either way, I am still totally amazed by its dreamlike effects.García carries us on her lush, poetic prose into the lives of a split family, mainly of its women: Pilar and her mother Lourdes who live in the US and Pilar's grandmother who is back in Cuba.
Of course, there is some interesting generational conflict and peeks into their past (and Cuba's)--deep traumas presented with a dose of magical realism.The narrative is fragmented but smooth, like a dream, pulling you along with changing POV's and ethereal and/or striking anecdotes.
Interesting too in Dreaming in Cuban is the relationship between imagination & memory and history and how it helps people to cope.
The friendship that springs up between Ivanito and Pilar suggests that there may be hope for connection within the third generation of the family as well.Dreaming in Cuban is divided into three books.
The narration of the novel generally moves forward in time, but this is complicated by the frequent appearance of past memories and the fact that the novel jumps back and forth between different locations and characters.The novel is also written through several different styles of narration.
First-person narration also appears, usually in connection with the youngest generation of the del Pino family.
Read for the MFAH book club to tie in with their Cuban art exhibit. I loved how this was a female centric book and enjoyed the magical realism that reminded me of Gabriel Garcia Marquez. Prompted a good discussion amongst my book club friends too. Great choice, MFAH!
Here is another book considered a great read for high school students, sophomores and higher.
All I can think, is the author must be friends with the people recommending this book for the high school lists.
This is a book about a Cuban family, part of whom move to New York (the dad is sickly and takes his favourite daughter with him) and the others remain in Cuba.
The whole book is very convoluted and I found myself having to flip back and forth, re-reading pages, trying to remember what was what.Just save yourself some time, and if this comes home on the book list, by-pass it!
Her characters are all flawed and this novel flows well in an often confusing daze from person to person at different time periods through Cuba's revolutionary beginning in the seventies.
This abandonment and sadness creates the theme of the novel which is parelled in the loss of a Cuba that once was before the revolution.
Each copes with it in a different way including moving as far away as possible.
Garcia also manages to make the reader struggle with the novels time periods and characters jumping back and forth, sometimes not really making sense.

