https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84748.Mr_Midshipman_Hornblower
Mr. Midshipman Hornblower begins the seafaring career of a young British officer in one of the greatest historical naval fiction series ever penned!
On the other hand, isn't it nice when the good guy wins?The funny thing about Mr. Midshipman Hornblower is that it's a prequel.
When he originally started writing these books, he began Hornblower's naval career in media res.
The writing in Mr. Midshipman Hornblower has a better flow to it, an effortless ease.
I have to say, it's funny to get into the middle of the entire series and encounter the old books with their stiff characters and stilted writing.
(And on these occasions, Hornblower comes through, earning the reader's respect and setting a good example.) The writing here is vivid; you get a really powerful picture of the hard and dangerous character of naval life in that day as you experience, along with the hero, the palms of his hands being flayed bloody by having to slide down a rough rope from a falling mast, or the winter cold and wet of the waves constantly breaking over him in an open boat.Although this book is usually considered a novel, the structure is episodic enough that it could have been billed as a collection of short stories; though the chapters are placed in chronological order, they're each perfectly self-contained and could stand as distinct units.
My library didn't have this when I started reading the series, so I wound up reading Lieutenant Hornblower, the second book chronologically, before this.
Hornblower Addendum (2011)Hornblower One More Time contains 3 short stories:- Hand of Destiny- Charitable Offering aka The Bad Samaritan- Hornblower and His MajestyHornblower Addendum - Five Stories (2011) is 5 adventures of Horatio Hornblower, two as Lieutenant, two as Captain, and one as Admiral of the Fleet.The Hornblower Companion is an atlas with brief descriptons & should be read along with the books.Hornblower Chronology: From Wikipedia & other sources.(SS = Short Story)1.
Here we have a lad of seventeen, a greenhorn deckhand, who works his way up through the ranks with his determination, grit, and a dash of book learnin': poor, seasick Hornblower, who barely manages to escape with his life from the duel he himself orchestrated, knowing his own inability and lack of experience in combat!
Here we have the pertinacious, the temerarious, the au courant, the über-prescient Horatio f___ing Hornblower!, foiling mutinous plots, fighting baddies on sea and on land, farting in the general direction of the French, Spanish, et cetera, and basically drop kicking evil in the face!Sometimes I forget that reading can be so fun.
But holy cow monkeys do I enjoy hearing about Horatio Hornblower's adventures on the high sea!
HEART OF OAKHeart of oak are our shipsJolly tars are our men.We'll always be ready -Steady boys, steady -We'll fight and we'll conquerAgain and again!(British sea shanty, Napoleonic era)Those French are a match for the ablest admiral, boys! A rollicking good tale of the Sea.25% done.
In this book, Horatio is a very young midshipman (although not as young as the wealthy and titled lads who take up that position).
You can really feel Forester’s warmth and humor as Horatio contemplates suicide with all the drama of a seventeen year old, or disguises his skinny calves with a bit of wood and some plaster, or gets flustered by a questionable Duchess.And then there are the little glimpses of Hornblower, the leader: the man who should not be trifled with.
Even in a metaphorical sense, this song applies.And in a literal sense, obviously.
I enjoyed this book. It is a book about a young inexperienced midshipman named Mr. Hornblower. He takes us on many fun and challenging sea ventures. I recommend this book to all readers. It is quite light and fun to read.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
This book was great - historical fiction/Ships of the Line/Age of Sail done right!
He is given charge (and loses) a prize ship.
Throughout it all, he keeps a level head and makes the best of his situation.What strikes me about these books as opposed to some of the recent Age of Sail (or Age of Sail in space) fiction that I've recently read is that Hornblower faces adversity.
The book moves along at a good pace, with plenty of action.
My only real knock on the book is that Hornblower can be a bit of a twit.
Zabavna knjizica koja na dosta fin nacin prikazuje kolko je bio tezak i surov zivot mornara na velkim ratnim prodovima 1800tih godina. Brrrr, ne bih voleo to da probam.Glavn lik je isto interesantan posto pretstavlja izuzetno moralnog i casnog coveka stavljenog u situacije koje ce testirati ono sto mu je najvaznije.Lako i citko stivo sa dosta dubine tako da svaka preporuka.
The Hornblower books by C.
This book starts out with an extremely unsure and YOUNG Midshipman Hornblower arriving at his first ship.
It follows him through a series of adventures from the misery of serving under a senior Midshipman who will never be promoted (because he's failed the Lieutenant's test too many times).
The book's story continues with Hornblower's life through his promotion to Lieutenant (while he's in a Spanish prison as a prisoner of war).
Patrick O'Brian's works have become very well known of late, in my opinion as action and adventure stories Forester's works are far superior.
S. Forester's Mr. Midshipman Hornblower (1950) finds himself all too often frustrated in a "savage, merciless world," where he is "very much alone ...
depressed, and unhappy." It's a world where very little goes as Hornblower plans: each adventurous episode nearly ends his career – and his life.
For many chapters, Mr. Midshipman Hornblower is a fairly dark read.
While the structure of each episodic chapter is formulaic and the focus rarely strays from Hornblower, Forester's clever imagination and extensive research create a believable illusion of life in the British navy during the Napoleonic wars.
I may have liked this more than it deserved because I read it around the birth of our third child (Katya is two days old as I write this), but whatever the reason, I really had a good time with Mr. Midshipman Hornblower.Better than Cornwell's Richard Sharpe books, but not as good as Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin books, Mr. Midshipman Hornblower is really a novel of short stories.
"Hornblower and the Examination for Lieutenant" and "Hornblower the Duchess, and the Devil" were my two favourite tales, but all of them were readable and kept my interest.I am looking forward to reading a Hornblower novel rather than a series of Hornblower stories.
Horatio Hornblower is just a teenaged midshipman here, an intelligent and sensitive overthinker who sort of reminds me of a shy, grumpy puppy.
He's just so self-conscious and burdened despite all of his natural ability.I'm sure he becomes much less lovably awkward in later novels, but this young version was so relatable, barely holding his pride together during various indignities and painful mishaps.
Minus the potential for grapeshot to the throat.This book is episodic, so we get the full range of Hornblower's early years; narrow escapes from enemy ships, embarrassing losses, painful battles of the French Revolution, triumphant maneuvering, and some personal bitterness.
But I was surprised at the subtlety of tales, the lack of crass derring-do, and the self-effacing good humor as much as anguish with which he faced early mistakes from inexperience.
He is so successful in taking merchant and French naval prizes, Hornblower gets his first chance of command of a ship, tasked with taking it to England with a small crew.
I seem to remember Forrester painting the French and Spanish as simply despicable and treacherous, but I didn’t see much of that here in the times when he was a prisoner of their navy.
For someone who is just coming to the series, this mightn't be the best place to start.Although you are introduced to Hornblower as a nervous young seventeen-year-old midshipman, the fact that the book is actually comprised of a dozen or so loosely connected short stories means that the flow is rather choppy.
If you are coming to the series after seeing the A&E movies, as I am, it's interesting to see the stories which inspired the miniseries, but somewhat disconcerting to see the differences in characterisation.
RTC.
In Horatio Hornblower, C.S. Forester created one of the most flawed heroes in military fiction.
When viewed from a 3rd part narrator, as he is in some of the novels through Leftenant Bush, he seems cold and aloof, but when you are inside his brain, it is a shocking counterpoint.In this particular book, the first chronologically (though not the first written), Hornblower begins his naval career as a Midshipman.
This book is essentially a series of short stories, recounting his progress in ability and experience, up to his promotion to full Leftenant.
This book was my introduction to the Hornblower story. Beyond a great action story, a useful primer on how the Royal Navy mad Britain the dominant sea power of the era.
Mr Midshipman Hornblower, the first in the Hornblower series, is a historical fiction book that takes the reader on a journey with a young British Naval officer in the early 1800s.
The reader goes along with Horatio Hornblower through all of his adventures and watch him rise in rank.
You quickly find out that you can’t make predictions in this book because it will generally be the opposite of what’s going to happen.
Hornblower is a very charming character who the reader becomes invested in making what happens in his life that much more interesting.
This book is perfect for the reader that enjoys an adventure with a solid plot.
Free download available at Faded Page.This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under copyright in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your country's copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.
I recommend this to EVERYONE IN THE WORLD. It was completely... Oh, what's the word... AWESOME!!! If you want a good book to read, do not hesitate to buy Mr. Midshipmen Hornblower. 100% great.
I read book #10 of this series and it was so good I am circling back and reading the adventures of Horatio Hornblower from the beginning. As a navy man these are almost required reading.
É densa e talvez não pareça assim tão divertida a quem a começa, mas é necessária uma abordagem gozona para realçar o seu génio.Aqui há uma personagem muito interessante e, apesar de reconhecível e relatable, rara: o protagonista Horátio Hornblower, aqui com 17/18 anos, é o clássico exemplo de inteligente mas demasiado inteligente para o seu bem.Nunca parece ter muita sorte e vai com o pé à argola várias vezes(eis um exemplo que acho importante em persuadir qualquer um a ler o livro: a dada altura é-lhe atribuído um pequenino comando que transporta arroz.
I read the it, appreciated it, but found myself having a difficult time getting the through all of the archaic, obsolete and specific naval terminology, along with a writing style that akin the Victorian style.Now 15 some odd years later, I found this series in the eBook format, so I decided to give them another try.
I was able to enjoy the stories and even remember some of the scenes from the first time I read the book as a teenager.
The next morning after a refreshing night's sleep, I was able to quickly sort out which boat was which and finished the story fully understanding what had happened in the naval engagement.I really did enjoy reading all of the different adventures of Mr. Hornblower.
(Netflix DVDs - 2003 - "Horatio Hornblower: The New Adventures" - with Ion Gruffudd )THE FOLLOWING ARE TV MOVIES WITH Ion Gruffudd:http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0129686/?...
( Horatio Hornblower: The Duel (1998) aka "Hornblower: The Even Chance" (original title) )http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0194947/?...
( Horatio Hornblower: The Fire Ship (1998) aka "Hornblower: The Examination for Lieutenant" (original title) )http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0194946/?...
( Horatio Hornblower: The Duchess and the Devil (1999) aka "Hornblower: The Duchess and the Devil" (original title) )http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0194948/?...
( Horatio Hornblower: The Wrong War (1999) aka "Hornblower: The Frogs and the Lobsters" (original title) )http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0327890/?...
( Horatio Hornblower 3 (2003) aka "Hornblower: Loyalty" (original title) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0352410/?...
I have read all of O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series Woodman's Drinkwater series as well as the books of several other authors in this genre but I've never read any of Forester's Hornblower books until now.
After reading this first book in the series I have to say I am disappointed when the work stands in comparison to the books I have read.
I think had I not already had a good grounding in this genre I probably would not have noticed the superficial treatment rendered by Forester to his subject.
While the book was well written and entertaining I think Forester has been surpassed by later authors.
Forester has an amazing ability to lay bare the secret heart of a teenage boy--bright, lonely, deeply self-critical--so that the reader aches for Horatio at every turn.
At the same time, at least in this first book, he also has a complete inability to write action scenes: everything devolves into a chaos of technical terms and abrupt transitions.
I will probably read more, both to see whether he improves and out of curiosity for how the adaptations differ from the books (for one thing, this first book offers a skeleton for much of the first four movies, so I'm interested to see if later incidents got folded into those movies or if the books have nifty plot twists that were left out entirely), but I'm not completely sold on these books yet.
I thought this book was brilliant.
Horatio was a nervous, shy, young hero, who accomplished things simply because he sees no other way.
Forester described the ways of ship life, and the historical context of the novel very well.
I saw the movie first, but I think Forester kept a more consistent characterization of Horatio.
Horatio was a realistic 17 year old: he was insecure, and had a difficult time adjusting to the role of a leader.
It did work for the story, as the overarching story was his adaption to the strange life of the British navy and his promotion to Lieutenant.
I've loved these books since the first time I read them and return to them again and again.
There's just something so appealing about an unlikely hero who's gawky, tone deaf and has almost no self confidence, yet has a morale code that's so strict that it will not allow him to let others down if it's even humanly possible.
This book is different from all of the other hornblower novels in that Forester tried an episodic approach to the chapters so that each could sort of stand alone as a short story.
Yet, they do all tie in and it's still the same great storytelling as in the other books in the series.

