https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/526061.Walt_Disney
For the number of pages that I did read, it was a true magical experience of going to work and school there knowing that this all was designed by one man who took pain in knowing that everything had to be perfect.Walt Disney was truly a genius that could move mountains and oceans.
He started working as a basic artist making small cartoons and creating characters and small comics from that.He struggled with getting established but to him, the issue of money was something he never worried about because as he said, that's what his brother is for, Roy. He would hire people and start different projects without worrying about where he was going to get the money to pay them.
I always find it hard to create a well organised review with a biography or non-fiction book.
Especially since I feel so passionately over this book and I think that will make it harder for me to create a well structured review.
In terms of the time it has taken me to read I always wanted to read a Disney biography but I did have further motive, I picked this book up for my Disney extended project and found that it contained a lot of really interesting and useful information about Disney and his life.
The warmth and humor that I remembered seeing in his television appearances (re-aired on cable for the benefit of 80's kids like me) were no persona, but a facet of the real man, and that makes me happy.
Walt's no-repeats mantra (coined after film distributors requested that he make a sequel to the 3 Little Pigs short), "You can't top pigs with pigs," kept appearing at moments like these.
The possibility of easy money to be made on the tried-and-true had no allure for him--he wanted always to find the next big challenge (such a far cry from what the company has moved to these days, in acquiring pre-existing franchises and sequelling its films into direct-to-video hell!).
Taaaaka dawka inspiracji! 😻Wszystkiego w sam raz, autor skupia się na tym, co najważniejsze. Zdecydowanie polecam!
If you’re looking for the single best (and condensed) bio of Walt, start here...
An in-depth biography of Walt Disney that shows all sides of Disney, his vision for the future, and his love of storytelling.Recommended 12+ because contrary to popular belief, people in the 20s-60s swore (a lot) and Disney was no exception.
An in depth look at the man behind Mickey Mouse and Disneyland and how he reshaped the world of cartoon and entertainment.My Opinion: The tale of Walt Disney through the eyes of Bob Thomas is reminiscent of a fairy tale.
Every time someone watches Mary Poppins or takes their child to Disneyland, they are participating in the dream of a man who really changed the world of entertainment.Author Bob Thomas was able to get us into the head of Walt Disney through meeting minutes/transcripts, notes, and interviews with those closest to him.
for entertainers to follow, to catch on, to develop for the cause of entertaining millions of people, children and adults.I couldnt be obiective with this topic, cause like almost all of us I grew up on this genious mans fantasys, work and I recommend this book to all the people who feel the same way about this world.It was such a great pleasure to know the man and his crew behind these all time classics and all of their work!As a self thaught artist myself..I remember when being like 10 years old, I tried to find sketches about the disney grafics ...
And this passion never stopped till now.I even have some behind the scenes montages on my old VCR at home about Disney telling at the end of the Snow White how they made it come true.
Thomas's book was one of the first biographies of Walt Disney, and remains a classic.
Thomas's style is a nice mix of chronology, anecdotes and characterization, using memories of multiple people who knew him.
With many an anecdote I wondered how Thomas knew.
Moreover, Thomas shuns an analysis of his subject: his biography remains a pretty straightforward story from birth to death.
Nevertheless, 'Walt Disney: An American Original' remains a nice introduction to who Walt Disney was and why he was so unique and important, and it's absolutely justified that it's still in print.
Either way, there is no doubt that the writer admires his subject and cheerfully tells the story of an admirable man.
His gifts and drive and moment in history combined to form a man who was ever-learning, ever-leading, and ever-pioneering new ways of teaching, entertaining, and serving the world around him.I enjoyed this book in another way, too.
I doubt any American has not been influenced by Disney in some way, almost certainly positively, and this book reveals the man (and men) who started it all.
Fascinating life, fascinating man. Unbelievably inspiring outlook on not just his successes, but also his failures. Author Bob Thomas has quite a task in telling Disney's professional and personal story fully. At times, I wished the narrative was more chronologically organized, but overall it was a great look at the man behind the dreams--and the dreams behind the man-- and just what I'd hoped for.
As much as I put off reading it, I did enjoy this book. It was very interesting and I definitely learned a lot about Disney. That meaning the company and the person. I probably would have spent less time reading this if not for a book report. I may read this again in the future for fun. I also plan to read to read more biographies now...
For a biography, this was a very well written story of Walt Disney's life. I thought it was a good look at the man behind the mouse, starting with this animated movies and moving into theme parks. As a big Disney World fan, I was fascinated by this read.
While definitely more of a "fantasy" view of Walt's life, this book was still an interesting look into an extraordinary man's life. I found it inspiring and hopeful that creativity and magic still resonate with people, even in a world as grim and sad as ours now. There may never be another person like Walt Disney- but we can all do our best to be as optimistic about humankind as him.
Well written and researched book about the creative life of Walt Disney. The author traced Walt’s early life through his final work to build Walt Disney World and Epcot. Lots of great insights into the personality and character of Disney, although at times it seemed a bit too upbeat. The book is a very readable and good basic work dealing with the life of Disney.
This allowed Walt the freedom to pursue his dreams, even though it would be many years before they would see continued financial success.
Frustrated because his vision for the film was limited by technology that was not available during the 70's, he created his own special effects studio in May 1975 and named it "Industrial Light and Magic." Not surprisingly, it was recently acquired in 2012 by The Walt Disney Company as part of its purchase of Lucasfilm.
Walt Disney had so many dreams and ideas that were always changing.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
I learned a lot of things I didn't know about Disney, such as he was not financially successful until the returns of Disneyland were realized.
He was always so concerned with quality in his films, often going to extra expense to remake parts of films to meet his high standards, that he was always in debt.
He was always concerned with quality and with entertainment and pleasing his audience, in films and parks, and all his endeavors.
This book has really brought me to a new interest in animation and I look forward to reading more about the history and the art of animation.
I wish I would have been able to read this while living in Florida this summer and going to Walt Disney World.
I did not know about the years and years of struggling Walt and Roy faced in starting their own company.
An animator could become an even greater director and Walt was able to see that.
He really helped push the cartoon industry along and I think his influence can still be seen by the Disney company to keep moving forward in their animation techniques and in their innovations for the amusement parks.
Bob Thomas' biography of Walt Disney is a fantastic look into the life and business adventures of Walt Disney.
Thomas includes the good and the bad in this honest and interesting look into Disney's life.
While designing Disneyland, Walt told his designers and architects, "All I want you to think about is when people walk through or ride through or have access to anything that you design, I want them, when they leave, to have smiles on their faces.
I see this goal accomplished in everything Disney, and I can't think of a ride, place, or location at Disneyland that doesn't put a smile on my face.
All the people who said horrible things about him need to read this book.
I'm glad the book didn't end with his passing and talks about the birth of Walt Disney World as well as Roy's final days.
I don't know why they didn't mention that Sharon was adopted (they made it Sunday like Lily gave birth to her) This book actually shows the charming and selfless side of Walt Disney and the impact his creations, dreams, and actions left on us.
And tube book includes the many charities he did for the less fortunate.
if you love and admire Uncle Walt this book is an absolute must read.
When I read a biography, I try to look for some key characteristic to emulate.
It could be leadership, communications, or something less tangible.
There is definitely much to learn from studying Walt Disney.
I learned two things by reading this book.
Disney was definitely (for all his faults) a visionary.
No matter what…keep moving forward.
This last lesson is definitely a recurring theme of this book.
No matter what obstacles were put in his way (even multiple business failures) he kept moving forward.
A great book full of life lessons that everyone could benefit from learni
I don't know if this is my first biography or not - but I really enjoyed learning about his life.
I didn't know much about him before .
I was VERY impressed with his work ethic, talent, and dedication.
VERY impressed!
I went to Walt Disneyland when I was 13 and Disney World when I was 16 and thought they were like any other amusement park and haven't had much desire to go back any time soon.
But now after reading this book I would like to go back to be able to notice all the details the man planned out!!!
I learned so much about Walt Disney himself and the pain he went through to bring us the characters that live on.
He was a genius and his methods may not have agreed with him, but hearing from the people that learned from him, those who worked with him and those who loved him, painted a picture of a man who was focused on what he wanted to do for the world.
I also find it interesting that his favorite line is "you can't top pigs with pigs" making me wonder what he thinks of the horrific sequels Disney now puts out for our favorite characters.
A must read for everyone who ever wondered about the man behind the magic.
After seeing Saving Mr. Banks, I was inspired to learn about Walt Disney and what inspired his imagination and creativity. Like every child I've ever known, I have loved virtually everything Disney: Disneyland, his TV show as a child, and of course his movies. I have always admired his creative genius, even more now after reading this book. He was everything I expected him to be but even more so. His imagination has known no other. I highly recommend this book and getting to know the man behind so many smiles.
A great book. Who knew the realities and struggles which went into creating the many hours of entertainment we all grew up with. Now understanding a little more on his methods, I can see the reason for the truth in my daughters statement. . . Following our trip to Walt Disney World. . ."Disney does not disappoint!"
This book was absolutely riveting. I loved learning about the man that not only shaped my childhood but shaped the entire world. I really enjoyed this biography and getting the chance to look into what Walt's life was before he became the man a generation loved and knew so well. Walt Disney was truly a great man and he will forever be my role model.
This book was a great book and I learned not only about Walt Disney, but also his cartoons and projects.I would recommend this book for anybody that wants to learn about one of the world's most famous and beloved animator.
Great read - started out a bit slow, but really picked up momentum as it got into Walt Disney's adult years. I learned a great deal about the man who so influenced generations of children, through his movies, theme parks, television, and so much more.
Doesn't go into many details. Seemed more like a recital of what I already knew about him. The writing was "stiff and wooden"Even though I really enjoyed the topic and learning more about the early days of Disney studios I can't recommend this book.
He was a true visionary. Never give up on your dreams.
