https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52251.Claudius_the_God_and_His_Wife_Messalina
A member of the elite, of the elites, not anybody higher than her new family, and now she is a rich, powerful, celebrity, people noticed her, talked about, and the scandalous rumors flowed to the ends of the Empire, everyone knew about the debaucheries, except the loving husband, who would have the courage to tell him...His close friend the future Jewish king (thanks to the Emperor), charismatic, extremely amusing, and able Herod Agrippa, advises Claudius at the beginning of his reign, both were students together, when children, he says to the monarch, never trust anyone and proves it later...
Probably the only writers who come close to Grave's mastery of history and literature are (in no particular order): Gore Vidal (Lincoln, Burr, etc), Hilary Mantel (Wolf Hall, Bring Up the Bodies) and Norman Mailer (The Executioner's Song, Harlot's Ghost), John Williams (Augustus).Obviously, Shakespeare is the master of historical fiction/drama but he is so obviously the deified king of historical fiction that the Shakespearian 'sun needs no inscription to distinguish him from darkness'.Grave's duology must be intimidating to a historian of Imperial Rome.
But Claudius is indeed lucky to be afflicted in such a manner and he soon learns to take advantage of his afflictions in order to stay alive whilst Grandma Livia is busy killing everybody that stands in the way of her son by her first husband, Tiberius, from inheriting the throne from his stepfather Augustus.
It's hard work for Livia when it comes to killing Augustus's only child Julia, and all her children, but what's a mother to do when they stand in the way of her son Tiberius?Claudius is the original Columbo if you remember this great detective series popular during the 70's and 80's.
This presented a problem establishing credibility and respect after he assumes leadership of the Roman Empire at its peak.Early in his tenure, we see him coming to terms with having to fight back hard against his enemies.
He gets a chance to prove himself as commander in chief by applying his book learning on warfare.
The irony of Herrod himself betraying him by seeking to carve out Egypt and the Far East from his empire was easier to accept.
I can’t speak of the value of all the parts missed in this abridged edition, but it was not as pleasurable as “I, Claudius.”
ilk kitaptan biraz daha heyecanlıydı özellikle kitabın sonuna doğru olaylar epey hareketlendi. Yazarın esprili anlatımı tarihi olayları bu kadar güzel ve gündelik bir olaymış gibi anlatması ve hala geçerliliğini koruyan tespitleri harika.
Yes, we are all mad, we Emperors. We begin sanely, like Augustus and Tiberius and even Caligula (though he was an evil character, he was sane at first), and monarchy turns our wits. This book is much more tragic than the last. Claudius becomes the divine emperor of Rome - against all odds - and rules for thirteen years. While the first book has no real narrative arc, this one is framed by two factors: Claudius's love for his young wife, Messalina, and his desire for Rome to return to republican
(view spoiler)[Claudius's slow turn away from republicanism - while expected, if you know anything about the history of Rome - is rooted in his cynical (and perhaps untrue) realization that the People and Senate of Rome deserve the government that they have under the Julio-Claudians.
On one hand, it's pretty difficult to make the end of Claudius's reign anything but depressing; on the other, it means that Claudius spends the last five years of his life just whiling away time, attempting to make Nero as terrible as possible (by bringing Seneca back from Corsica!
(review in English below)Muito bom! Apesar das contrariedades derivadas de falhas na tradução e/ou na revisão (alguns exemplos nos updates), a fantástica qualidade desta narrativa não se perdeu. Agradou-me imenso o modo como Robert Graves conseguiu incorporar algum humor na sua escrita, sem perder a credibilidade histórica. Imperdível! So good!In spite of the annoyance caused by the several mistakes in the translation and proofreading, the amazing quality of this narrative didn't get lost.I immensely enjoyed the way Robert Graves managed to incorporate some humor in his writing, without losing historical credibility.Unmissable!
Koliko god da mi se dopada gomiletina istorijskih događaja koje je Grejvs sjajno posložio u pregledan timeline, toliko mi nije jasna njegova potreba da u neku ruku amnestira Klaudija, predstavi ga kao sveca, previše bolećivog na svoje žene, sluge, prijatelje... tolika povodljivost, bezvoljnost, naivnost i beskičmenjaštvo nekako ne idu ruku pod ruku sa britkom inteligencijom, idejama i učenošću kakvu je Grejvs dodelio Klaudiju u svojim knjigama.A i moram da priznam da bez Kaligule nema zabave. :D
One of the obstacles is that this paperback (Penguin, 2006), I think, is not reader-friendly due to its relatively small fonts; it’s a pity I can’t find any information in this volume on the font size used in publishing this book, therefore, the elderly might find reading its 32 chapters, 443 pages probably tedious, invaluable and unamused.
Twice a day a huge tide welled up into the river mouth – a commonplace in this part of the world, though never seen in the Mediterranean, except during storms – and hindered Aulus’s work greatly.
They locked shields, shouted, and burst right through to the stockade, killing hundreds of British tribesmen in a single charge.
(This Herod was the grandson of Herod the Great, notorious for the Slaughter of the Innocents in Matthew 2, and cousin of Herod Antipas, who demands a miracle of Jesus in Luke 23.)Through Herod, Graves tells much of the story of the Jews under Roman domination, and in a book published in 1935 the account bears irresistible parallels to the subjugation of a later population of Jews--one description of a pogrom in Alexandria in particular seems a stunningly prescient forecast of Kristallnacht.Speaking of prescience, consider Claudius's rationale for invading Britain: "I had other reasons for making war, too.
. The Druids therefore, though they were not warriors themselves but only priests, were always fomenting rebellion against us." Change the geography, and for "training colleges" read "madrasas" and for "priests" "imams," and you have much of the U.S. rationale for invading first Afghanistan and then Iraq.
First, a five-star hat's-off to Nelson Runger, narrator for the Recorded Books versions of I, Claudius and Claudius the God, whose "cheerful, sonorous timber [and] the unfaltering, even pace of his delivery…" made these two audio books a joy.Secondly, another five-star hat's-off to author/historian Robert Graves, who brought the man Claudius to life.For me, I, Claudius was the more enjoyable of the two books; tracing the path that led to weak, stuttering, and all too human Claudius arising to Emperor of his world.
I came to Claudius the God at a tough time of my life, and did a poor job of reading this book, rushing through it and having little recollection of chunks of the narration.
In this sequel, Graves picked up the story from the point where Claudius, the 51-year-old crippled historian who had infantile paralysis and aphasia, was acclaimed Emperor of Rome against his own desire.
Graves said in the Introduction that "no character is invented." For readers who love history, this book is so well researched it makes for fascinating and rewarding reading.
The first four chapters present a heart-warming and entertaining account of the friendship between Claudius and Herod Agrippa, the Jewish King.
(view spoiler)[Herod Agrippa’s history was closely bound up with that of Claudius.
(hide spoiler)]“Claudius the God” reads like a 3½ star book to me.
I was expecting the same amount of plotting and betrayal which was just stupid on my part, given the fact that almost the entire royal family had been wiped out in book 1.
Letting it stew for a few days I decided to give this book 4 stars, just like in I, Claudius the writing is great and feels authentic.
Claudius is a great main character and you truly feel and root for the guy.
Given the fact that it takes longer to build something then to destroy it, it makes sense that a lot of the book focuses on recovering from the times of Caligula.
This did not move as fast or fluid as I, Claudius and Graves got a bit bogged down in several sections with details of Roman wars.
He did much the same thing with his accounts of events in the East and the life of Herod Agrippa.I highly, highly recommend seeing the Masterpiece Theater series adapted from these novels.
My hat is off to the writers who adapted these novels so perfectly.
Of course, also off to Robert Graves, who saw in Claudius the Stammerer more than just a tidbit of history and found in him a remarkable survivor.
Tiberius Claudius Drusus Nero Germanicus ascends the Roman throne in the second half of Robert Graves' life of Claudius.
After the debacle of the reign of his three relatives, Augustus, Tiberius and Caligula, Claudius is left with Roman society in ruins, and his dreams of re-establishing the Republic fade.
Although he is somewhat successful, during his thirteen year reign, his heroic efforts are somewhat thwarted by the corrupt system and the constant behind-the-scenes manipulation of the ruling classes.
There are other people who genuinely love Claudius, and eventually even his grandmother Livia comes to show him a grudging respect.Once again, Robert Graves exhibits his awesome talent in this gripping tale.
This second book was not quite as good as the first, "I, Claudius." The first book created a fuller picture of the times and also it was written in a more light style and with a wittier tongue. There is a long section early in the novel that tells the story of Claudius' friend Herod Agrippa, which I think was not necessary. It made the book slow and at times boring. Bottom line, I didn't enjoy it quite as much as "I, Claudius," but still I recommend the book to people who like to read historical novels.
Claudius the God's biggest weakness is one common to sequels: having used certain elements to tremendous effect in the first book, Graves occassionally seems to overuse them in the second.
Still, focusing on this element compliments the first book to create a fuller picture of the times, and most of what Graves seeks to include - such as the public works projects - do seem to have been critical elements of Claudius's reign.
Which elements work best in the book is wholly subjective.
The conquest of Britain, for example, seems wholly critical to the narrative, and personally I was rather fond of Graves's extensive chronicling of King Herod's activities in Judea.
Zeer goed boek.
Het is het tweede deel van Ik, Claudius, maar zeer goed apart te lezen.
Het begint nadat Caligula vermoord is, en de militairen Claudius tot keizer uitgeroepen hebben.
Claudius, de kreupele, de stotteraar, maar wel een zeer intelligent man.
However, in order not to tell the story twice . . .
I recommend the book to people who like to read historical novels.
I took away the fourth star because the book was much too long thereby diminishing this historical account of Claudius' reign over the Roman empire.The book, the main character, and the author remain enigmas to me.
The author portrayed Claudius in different lights but never developed his personality, and I do mean personality as opposed to character.
The author at times writes like a skittish horse afraid of its own shadow.
The author's multiple writing styles and Claudius' questionable integrity did not help this reader to answer that question.
Great, now I have to go and read some actual (ie non-fiction) Roman history to find out if I just learned something or if I just read through two books worth of Days or Our Lives, circa 41 AD.I read Claudius the God and His Wife Messalina and I, Claudius back to back as I really wanted to follow through to the end of the prophecy with which "I, Claudius" opens.
The books content shows no sign of their publishing age (1934/1935), I guess because the referenced events are orders of magnitude older and there was no attempt to modernise the story, merely translate (OK, and perhaps add an element of excitement and intrigue).I listened to these books, the Recorded Books version read by Nelson Runger.
Estamos sin ninguna duda ante una de las mejores novelas históricas de la Historia y ante una de las obras cumbre del siglo XX y de la literatura inglesa.
Solo un decepcionante final, en el que la personalidad de Claudio cambia abruptamente y el ritmo se vuelve excesivamente precipitado y falto del detallismo del resto del díptico formado por esta y la también estupenda "Yo, Claudio" evitan que alcance la máxima valoración, aunque se queda cerca.
En cualquier caso, puedo afirmar, sin ningún género de dudas que esta es la mejor novela de lo que llevo de año.
Sometimes I wonder if this book is rampantly misogynist on purpose, or if that just a reflection of the source material Robert Graves had to work with.
And then I wonder if the source material is full of such horrible women because there really was such a crop of scheming imperial jezebels, or if the historians were merely reflecting the deeply-entrenched anti-woman sentiments of their time.And then I remember that today's young classicists of both genders seem to do a pretty good job of fighting the patriarchy.
And that we will all probably raise a feisty feminist crop of Medeas and Philomelas and Messalinas.
Claudius the God  starts where I, Claudius  left off, at the scene of the assassination of Caligula.
He then continues to relate how he managed to clean up the political and financial mess that Caligula left behind and undertook some major works in Rome (two aqueducts that doubled the water supply in the city, the draining of a lake, and the harbour of Ostia).
Leading up to the invasion of Britain, Claudius gives us the historical background of the Celtic tribes, the Druids, Stonehenge and the British women with their "fierce tempers".
Beautifully written and totally engrossing, historical fiction does not get much better than this.
A disappointing follow-up to the brilliant I, Claudius. I'd heard it didn't compare, but I had to found out for myself. The technique, wit and cleverness were still there, but the approach didn't lend itself to the subject. Claudius-as-bumbling-fool-in-the-shadows worked spectactularly because he was the perfect fly on the wall. Claudius-as-increasingly-mad-emperor was all nut job and no distance.Funny, smart, and entertaining to a degree, but unlike its predecessor, it didn't have much of anyplace to go.
The degree of exaggeration Claudius gives his wife's promiscuity is enough to make even a non-feminist skeptical (like, she wore out the city's most veteran courtesans in a fucking contest, really?) Most everything in Graves's novels is based on the work of Roman historians Tacitus, Seutonius, Pliny the Elder, and the satirist Juvenal, all of whom were writing about events long in the past and who had reason to be hostile to Messalina and her imperial line, so it's been argued that her sexual voraciousness and other misdeeds are just sexist slander.
Where the first novel covered the reign of Caesar Augustus as well as those of Tiberius and Caligula, the sequel is longer but mostly restricts itself to the thirteen-year reign of Claudius, the narrator.There is a rather long section early in the novel that tells the story of Claudius' friend Herod Agrippa, who helps and encourages Claudius in his first few months of being the new emperor.
He is telling me at one point that Galba burned one hundred and fifty stockaded villages, destroyed thousand of acres of crops, killed great number of Germans, took two thousand prisoners, lost twelve hundred men, its a long list of who did what.
If you've wikipediaed the life of Claudius, then you know that our good hero meets a somewhat sad end.Our hero, despite his benevolent intentions, almost unknowingly adopts the mantle of a tyrant and (eventually) a living god and finds his weaknesses exploited by the manipulative people around him.
Robert Graves concludes the book with various contemporary excerpts of Claudius's murder by his wife and the future emperor Nero.I learned that the good die out and that bad people have the tendency to win at the end.
The book proves to be a good story of how a person with an awful lot of potential, when put into a position of ultimate power can be a victim of his/her own weakness and not realize that potential.
Claudius, the unlikely scholar-emperor, finally shrinks into the man his family and the public has always chastised him for being, and administers the Empire's descent into Nero's madness, bitterly and intentionally cultivating the worst in his adopted son.Anyone who has attempted a huge project against popular support, only to recognize impeding failure after countless hours of work will get this "If I can't have it, nobody will" mentality that Graves works into his tragic hero.
I, Claudius is one of my favourite books of all time so I was eagerly anticipating the sequel.
I found a lot of it rather tedious and dry.Highlights are the two characters Herod Agrippa and Clausius' wife Messalina.
Herod gets his own chapters at the beginning of the story and Messalina's antics cause a lot of chaos behind the scenes.
She seemed the most interesting and powerful woman of the time and there was a lot of material for the author to work with, even before Claudius' death.
Unfortunately as soon as she came to the forefront of the story the book ended.
