https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234671.Bloody_Mary
An egregious and obvious example is Erickson's use of source material; she leans heavily on Foxe's writings, which are about 18 different kinds of unreliable, but never notes for the reader that, e.g.: (1) the writings were published after Mary's death; (2) they were based on secondhand information at best, particularly regarding Mary's personal life; (3) Foxe was an ardent protestant with specific reason to loathe Mary and her policies; and (4) Foxe was furthermore writing during the reign of a monarch (Elizabeth I) at pains to propagandize her reverse of Mary's policies, including a return to protestantism and, eventually, a war with Spain.
As a lover of all Tudor non fiction, I was greatly disappointed with this book. In reading it I felt that Erickson wanted to write about about the Tudor reign but felt it too much so she just picked one subject. But for much of the book the information she gives is about other Tudor people instead of telling Mary's stories. She is not very critical of her sources, many of the facts she tells the readers have been disproved by many credible historians. I will never read another of her books.
If Henry died without an heir and the crown passed to Mary, who had already been anointed the Princess of Wales, the first time that position had ever been given to a woman, would Charles also inherit the English title?
Given that Katherine would be unlikely to bear another child, and even though Henry was having his way with Thomas Boleyn’s married daughter, Mary Carey, it’s no wonder he began to scheme a way to dispense with Katherine.
This may not represent current research, but is still a highly well-written and easily readable biography of Mary Tudor, ill-fated Catholic queen of England.
She overcomes great odds in her accession to the throne of England, but all her hopes are terribly disappointed and she dies within five years.
Was she truly to blame?Of course, there's a great deal more to her life than this episode.
The Mary emerging in these pages is a very human, gifted, tragically flawed individual whose great vision and hopes seem almost fated for disappointment.
I probably would have chosen a different bio had I read some reviews first, but this was the only book with an audio version available. It was fine for getting the broad picture of her reign, but Ishould probably pick up something else about her in the future.
Link to my review of this book:https://flhwnotesandreviews.com/2018/...
Ho tanta invidia per le anime belle che sono seriamente convinte che Maria sia stata l'unica sovrana 'sanguinaria' della Storia, ma pure solo dell'Inghilterra o della sua famiglia, tanto per restringere il cerchio.
Ho invidia di quell'ingenuità d'animo, di quello sguardo vergine sul mondo, della capacità di farsi conquistare dallo slogan e di accettare le verità impacchettate e servite col fiocco.
Se avete compassione, vi verrà voglia di cancellare col pennarello tutti i "Bloody" e i "Sanguinaria" che troverete in giro, e di denunciare chiunque abbia chiamato "Bloody Mary" il drink color sangue.
Maria era ormai sul versante sbagliato della Storia.

When Mary became Ruler she was trying to fix England’s debt, while fighting off many illnesses.Bloody Mary is a very factual book written about the life of Mary.
I think the title shows the authors opinion and doesn’t reflect positively on Mary.
Another example, “Charles, who was anything but continent and was by this time, considering marrying someone else…” This shows the authors opinions on Charles, because he only saw Mary as a diplomatic alliance and not as a bride.Carolly Erickson is known for her nonfiction books about famous historical figures.
These poems relate to the chapters written about that time in Mary’s life.
Most of the book is set during Henry's reign, and Erickson provides far too much detail therein.
Erickson focuses on odd details (she documents pretty much every uprising ever, no matter how small) while ignoring others (Mary's presence in the famous dynastic tapestry, Catherine Parr's attempts to bring the family together, Francis Brandon's close relationship with Mary that led to her pardon and her daughter's execution).
Erickson reminded me that Mary loved sumptuous fabrics and jewels (a character quirk often forgetten by dramatists, who love putting her in dour black), but passes over her relationship with Elizabeth and everything to do with religious prosecution on Mary's part.
This book is about the life and times of Mary Tudor, first crowned queen of England.
Whenever I read of Tudor times, Mary seemed to be in the background and briefly mentioned, being overshadowed by her father and brother before her and the Golden Age reign of her sister Elizabeth.
This book really helped me more to understand the very troubled and sad life of this queen.
She was a woman of turmoil and her life was sprinkled with joyous times, but about all else she was faithful.
Wonderful book for any Tudor fan.
A solidly researched book about Mary Tudor that provides an overview of her life from birth to death.
I thought that Erickson did a nice job using the results of his research to tell Mary's story.
Some of the sentences in the book could have used some editing, but overall, I thought that Erickson did a nice job here.I also liked the fact that Erickson wove in some good analysis of what it was like to be a woman ruler of a country during medieval times.
Well, I've never really read much non-fiction before, but I picked this up and it was amazing!
I loved the way the author used every element of Mary's surroundings to explain how and why she was the way she was.
Not only did Erickson take Mary's education into account, but also the divorce of her parents (and more importantly the way each of her parents acted during it), the religious climate of England over the years, and the changing economic situation.
I thought it was a wonderful book, although the flowery descriptions got a little tedious after a while, I would definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in this time period of English history.
Most of my Tudor reading in the past has focused on Henry VIII or Elizabeth I, and skipped over the sad and bloody reign of Queen Mary. Not anymore! This sympathetic portrait of a woman who survived the vilification of her mother and her religion, an on-again off-again place in the succession, and an unpopular marriage to the younger and uninterested Philip of Spain, is definitely worth reading if you are interested in the Tudor dynasty. Well researched and extremely readable.
This book took me over 3 months to read as I could only take so much at a time. It was well researched and easy to read but I guess I missed converstation and so I would read a bit and then reach for a mystery. It was upsetting to see how women were treated during this time and era and to see how they were able to rise above it.
A fascinating and well-documented biography on a complicated and frequently dismissed royal. Plus the author (one of my favorite popular medievalists) has such a dry witty way of writing it makes it fun to read. I appreciate her ironic humor and insightful perspective on what life was like for people (both individually and collectively) during that period and in that place.
This is probably the best researched biography I've ever read. It does take a long time to get through but I'm enjoying it. The details about the clothing and the festivals are very good.
An even-handed, well-researched biography of a woman who was a product of her time and upbringing, and, in her own way, as morally upright and true to her values as her more-lauded sister.
I was a bit surprised to find that almost 3/4 of the book was about Mary's life before she became queen.
It went back and forth over the years, many times at the whim of her father.
Ann Bolyn gave birth to Elizabeth who became Mary's rival, not just to be queen, but to control the official religion of England.
There were burnings and other atrocities committed by the queen who came to be known as Bloody Mary.
However, after reading this book, it is also impossible to think of her without remembering the sadness, confusion and extreme uncertainty of her childhood and young adulthood.
Mary had an incredibly difficult life, but she also savagely burned many protestants during her reign. She gave alms to the poor, lived in pious seclusion and eventually grew desperate to restore her realm to the Catholic faith, at any cost. Extreme evil tends to cancel out good, in keeping with the mathematics of ethics. Her father, Henry, was a cruel tyrant, however, this is not about apples and trees. It is about absolute power, and corruption. His biography tends to subsume hers, his reign occupying a large part of the history, overshadowing her story.
I love Carrolly Erickson. This book kind of felt a bit long, but I think that was just because I've been trying to read it at the pool and such where it's loud and distracting. I'm not giving it a 5 because of that (even though it very well may be my fault), and that she said Anne of Cleves was 34 when she married Henry. I have read other things that said she was 24 and I looked it up on the internet, and I got 24 again, so I think that may be an error on her part.
Bel libro, convenientemente diviso in piccoli capitoli.Dalla nascita alla morte prematura, la Erikson ricostruisce l'infelice vita di Maria Tudor approfondendo tutti gli avvenimenti e le circostanze che la resero tale.
Most conscientiously researched history of Mary Tudor; unfortunately, hers was a very despairing life. A well written tome--long, detailed and sad: a much more complex queen than is usually simplistically rendered.
This book was ok. There was too much about politics in her father's time and other facts that didn't interest me. I just wanted the story of Mary herself. Did learn a lot. The poor girl grew up in insane times with an insane father and his "friends" and wives. Not bad not great.
I didn't really learn anything I didn't already know about Queen Mary Tudor but it was a good book none the less. It was written in 1977 though and there have been more discoveries about her since then but since English monarchy history is my passion I will read it all.
Good book
A terrific biography of a much maligned and grossly misunderstood historical figure, a scapegoat for generations of vicious religious and political propagandists.Though she burned and persecuted 'heretics', so did most European monarchs of her era, Catholic and Protestant.After a splendid start in life, Henry VIII's half-Spanish, half-English heir to the English throne was treated cruelly and heartlessly throughout her youth because of her genes, her gender and her parent's reformation-triggering marriage annulment.Her mother Catherine of Aragon was her only close ally but King Henry eventually forbade mother and daughter contact.
Mary is very much a part of that story and "Great Harry" provided background to Mary's life in the context of her being her father's daughter.In "Bloody Mary" the story is of the person Mary came to be and the forces that formed her.
When she became queen, following the death of her brother Edward VI and the tragic nine day rule of Jane Grey, she was expected to marry, provide an heir and leave the ruling of the country to the menfolk.Mary's marriage to Phillip of Spain fulfilled the first expectation but did little to quell the fears and doubts of her people.
She received the crown and the responsibilities of ruler of England at a time of great change and turmoil.
This book was thoroughly engaging and immensely interesting.Adored and publicly admired by her father as a young child, Mary's peaceful home life was destroyed when her father, always flirtatious, suddenly decided to pursue his love affair with Anne Boleyn beyond the bedroom, and with cold indifference and evident scorn cast aside his former wife, daughter, and religion.
This is a book that paints an extremely detailed and intricate picture of Mary Tudor who has so often been overlooked in favour of both her father and her sister Elizabeth.
There is a naivety in the reading of contemporary documents, for example reading Mary's own speeches and letters as always 'true' and unencumbered by political expediency, which goes against the picture that Erickson simultaneously wants to paint of a woman who is politically astute and extremely intelligent.
