https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147578.The_Dam_Busters
eccentric british egghead as hero, stiff upper lipped British resolve and sheer bullheaded British doggedness. what's not to love in this true story?
A gripping and beautifully written account of the bravery and (some might argue) insanity displayed by the 617 squadron of the RAF during WWII, when they bombed the three main dams in Germany with a special type of bomb.
Going on to hail the squadron's success in bombing the Tirpitz off the coast of Norway and the V1 and V2 bunkers in France, it paints a detailed picture of the lives of these young men (20-25, some younger than that), and it reads like a thriller.
Of course historical documents and registers are often the only evidence historians have to extrapolate from so the job of telling the story of a real person who didn't survive becomes ever more difficult the further we are from the event.
What makes Brickhill's effort so good is that he got to talk to and interviewed many of the main players involved with 617 squadron and with these sources he has done a fantastic job.
The story of 617 squadron doesn't need hyperbole or superlatives and thankfully Brickhill's narrative is restrained and respectful.
Absolutely brilliant account of the Dam Busters 617 Squadron. Highly recommended.
Brickhill gives an account of Barnes Wallis, a kind gentle person and his sheer stubbornness in never wanting to give up in his achievements to succeed, which of course led to the bouncing bomb, the talking boy and the grandslam bombs which ultimately led to the formation of probably the most famous squadron in the RAF, if not the world; 617.
Led at first by Guy Gibson who would later be awarded a Victoria Cross for his role in leading the raid which gave 617 squadron its eventual name; the Dambuster squadron.
It finishes up with only a minute bit on Guy Gibson, which disappointed me, and the various other people who were involved in 617 squadron until the end of the second world war.
Now 617 Squadron was formed specifically for Operation Chastise and it was the most famous mission, so it understandable that it focuses a lot on that operation.Much like Paul Brickhill's other novel "The Great Escape" this book is an exciting read, it is no wonder that they were both made into movies.
For people that know only about the blowing of the dams the second half of the book is real interesting as that is what happened subsequently after their famous mission.As I said earlier this is an exciting read and does not get bogged down in technical aspects or minute historical details.
Published in 1951 and revised and updated in 1969, Dam Busters tells the story of weapons scientist Sir Barnes Wallis and the RAF 617 Squadron who delivered the specialized ordnance he designed to take out key German dams destroying their electric generators and flooding the areas down stream at great risk and at the cost of many casualties.
Subsequent feats included raids on heavily defended Nazi U-Boat pens, V-1 and V-2 secret flying bomb bases, the destruction of key bridges and aqueducts and sinking the German battleship Tirpitz.
The book would have greatly benefited from maps of the overall target areas, diagrams of the specialized "bouncing bomb" apparatus, and photos of the various aircraft and the key personnel involved.
Strangely, while I've read Brickhill's "The Great Escape" (in which he was a participant and eyewitness) with pleasure, and seen the movie "The Dam Busters" more times than I can count, I'd never gone back to the source material and read the book; now I can report that it was a pleasure.
"This is a story of quality as against quantity, demonstrating the exceptional skills and ingenuity can give one man or one unit the effectiveness of ten"
The Dam Busters relates the story of Squadron 617, an elite bombing sqaudron, in the Royal Air Force during WWII.
While I have nothing but minor interest and curiosity in the subject matter, this book came highly recommended by a friend.I was mesmorized and had a difficult time putting the book down.
Paul Brickhill does a fantastic job writing history that is engaging.
He includes a great balance of the feats of the group and their personal experiences and personalities that kept a typically-fiction-reader like me interested.I definitely plan on reading more of Brickhill in the future, regardless of the subject matter.
I thought, going into this book, that I might struggle with the technical aspects and find it a little hard-going as I'm generally not a reader of non-fiction.
However, Paul Brickhill writes in such a way that the story flows easily and each 'character' (though of course they were all real people) comes to life and you soon find that you have your favourites that you're particularly rooting for.
It perfectly sums up the British WWII spirit - the keep calm and carry on mentality - and highlights the extraordinary bravery of the RAF and Bomber Command.
Excellent book! The first chapters up to the dam raids are outstanding, the rest of them maybe a bit less exciting, with less suspense, but also extremely interesting as they show that Squadron 617 was not only about the dam raids but a lot of other high precision bombing attacks during the war, using new bombs and different tactics. I really enjoyed the book.
The first half, the story of the original mission, it's conception and execution, is definitely worth the read. The further exploits of the pilots after their harrowing mission seems to lack a little of the excitement Mr. Brickhill exhibited for primary conflict. Still, VERY MUCH worth the read. It's amazing what those young men did!
Paul Brickhill delivers another great book. I knew the "Great Escape" was an amazing film after the book, but I'd never seen this film. "Dam Busters" is amazing, a wonderful story, in-fact BETTER than the "Great Escape" Will be searching it out on film now, will be reading again. Gripping, in-flight and chilling. Wonderfully written
people used to be able to write. people used to be able to kick ass. people used to be proud of this ass kicking.a tale of the battle for britain from the brit's view. all straight up clandestine weapon creations, best pilots around, hella intense missions, all done w/o teh internets, gps, satelites (sp) or anything else lame.written w/ incredible flair and wit. highly engaging.
Genius is rarely recognized in its own time and very nearly wasn't in the case of the dam busting bomb. Brickhill does a great job of illustrating the genius of the device, the work that was involved in perfecting it and the bravery of its champions and those who deployed it.
Wow, I started this not expecting to find myself completely immersed in the story. I got a little lost in some of the science of it but the overall story of real bravery is breath taking and completely engaging. A single sitting book, now I must watch the film.
Quite simply one of the most astonishing times in our recent history; one of the greatest inventors (Barnes Wallis), some of the bravest men (Bomber Command). Read this book and learn about duty and sacrifice and feel suitably humbled.
True story of the men who flew on missions during WW11 to blow up strategic places, bridges, dams etc. This recounts the invention and the utilisation of the bomb invented by Barnes Wallis and the brave men of Bomber Command who flew in the most daring raid to blow up the Ruhr Dam.
An informative account of the history of the Dam Buster Squadron. The Dam attack was impressive but the pin-point attacks on the U-Boat pens and V-3 super-gun installation are just as good but at what appalling cost. How did they keep going as one after another their mates got the chop?
To handicapt Nazi industrial production and slow the development of Germany's secret weapons, the British Bomber Command launched an attack on a German dam. This dramatic raid is told here.
The book covers the subsequent history of 617 Squadron, as an elite squadron specializing in attacking difficult targets with outsize weapons and precision techniques.
another riveting war story from Brickhill. I found the science behind the dam busting bombs and aiming equipment particularly fascinating.
An inventor, a squadron of serious dedicated flyers and teams of others that brings an important historic moment into the war efforts
(Read during High School)
isbn,original
617 Squadron...heroes all! "Bomb gone"
excellento !
A realistic description of the raid, with good tension.
Heroic. I Read the Hebrew translation.
Thoroughly entertaining account of the technical innovations that helped win the second world war.
