https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30649413-the-hideaway
When Sara is informed that her grandmother "Mags" has passed away she returns home to Sweet Bay, Alabama to "The Hideaway" her grandmother's B&B where Sara spent her childhood.
But when the will is read, Sara learns that her grandmother has left the Hideaway to her.
But what she learns when she finds an old key under a bench, is that her grandmother was a woman with secrets, with passion and a woman who once had to make a very difficult choice.Through the course of the book, the reader also gets to see Mags backstory.
Sara's eccentric grandmother Mags has passed away, leaving her home (an old bed and breakfast) to Sara.
Sara had left the small town to move to New Orleans to start her own life and she had kinda forgotten to keep in touch with her grandmother.She just remembers that her grandmother Mags was totally different than other grandmothers.Mag's will states that Sara is to restore the old bed and breakfast and then she can do with it what she wants.
Sara moves in just long enough to do the task.Then she finds an old box of Mags in the attic and discovers that she really didn't know her grandmother as well as she thought she did.This book was just plain sweet.
Set in Sweet Bay, Alabama  in the Deep South, we meet Dot, a friend of Mags (Mrs. Margaret Van Buren), a tenant of The Hideaway.
She is admiring the latest Southern Living  article featuring Maggie (Mag)’s granddaughter, Sara who owns a highly successful interior design shop in New Orleans.
People tend to arrive at this charming inn, and they fall in love and decide never to leave.Mag’s daughter, Jenny  is deceased and she helped raise her granddaughter Sara.
Sara soon discovers more  and more about her grandmother and the mysterious man in her life from the past.
This book is a little about love, but mostly family.
She leaves behind what used to be a B&B and what is now a ramshackle house full of her long-time friends.
In her will, she leaves the house and property to Sara and requests that she renovate it and return it to its former glory.
She didn't plan on staying in the little seaside town long, eager to return to her business in New Orleans.
She's also unearthing old family secrets about her grandmother and the life she led, realising she didn't know the woman as well as she thought she did.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ / 5The Hideaway was AMAZING. It was a super fast read (I read it in 1 day), and I cried more than once. It was such a great Southern fiction story, and definitely charming as other reviewers have said. Sara (the main character) only frustrated me once in this book, and that was towards the end. Overall though, I was a fan of almost all of the cast of characters and they were all so perfectly developed. The book reminded me a lot of The Notebook and I think if you are a fan of Nicholas Spar
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ / 5The Hideaway was AMAZING.
Sara (the main character) only frustrated me once in this book, and that was towards the end.
Overall though, I was a fan of almost all of the cast of characters and they were all so perfectly developed.
The book reminded me a lot of The Notebook and I think if you are a fan of Nicholas Sparks you will be a fan of this book.
This book was sad, but in a different way from The Notebook.
It also had a lot of happy moments as well.
I'm going to be blatantly honest.
I thought this was going to end up as some corny love story that would make me gag.
BOY WAS I WRONG!!!
This was one of the best books I've read in awhile.
It flowed so well that I couldn't wait to get back to its pages.
A heartfelt story of love & true family.
Reminiscent of The Bridges of Madison County (which is high praise from me bc it's a true favorite)!
If nothing else read it for the eulogy included for one of its characters!
It left me in stitches!
As soon as she turned eighteen, Sara left Sweet Bay behind, trying to distance herself from the constraints of small-town life and her eccentric grandmother, Mags.
However, when Mags passes away, Sara returns to Sweet Bay and carries out Mags' wish that Sara restore her house, which once was a bed and breakfast but now is home to Mags' friends, to its former glory.
Sara never imagined herself returning to Sweet Bay and certainly never pictured herself becoming enchanted with The Hideaway like nearly everyone else who passes through its doors, but once she is back, she is charmed by the residents of the old B&B and also by the contractor she hired to carry out the renovations.
Sara lives in New Orleans and has a shop called Bits and Pieces, where she fixes up and sells stuff.
Then Sara gets a call from her grandmother Mags lawyer.
Then Sara gets another hit when she finds out Mags left The Hideaway (her run down B&B) to her.
Sara is under a lot of distress because she wants to go back to New Orleans and run her own business.
The book goes back and forth from the present with Sara and the past with Mags.
There is a mystery/love story in Mags past and it effects Sara as well.
As Sara is going through the property and getting it renovated, ready to sell, she comes across some things that make her wonder if she knew her grandmother at all.
The story not only gives the reader what is happening in the present day with Sara and the house but also back to Mags from 1960 onwards.
Both Mags and Sara make for interesting reading.
The other inhabitants of The Hideaway are an interesting assortment of characters and there is a love story or two.
I found this a charming and enjoyable easy, read, with well-developed characters and lovely setting.
Great premise, good writing, wonderful setting, interesting characters, but I have some serious foundational issues with this novel......I finished this controversial little charmer several weeks ago on the eve family arrived from Wyoming.
And so has the controversial topic of infidelity, which the story is built upon.
Had this novel been published and marketed by Harper Collins proper, not its Christian subsidiary, I wouldn't have any qualms with it.
But to be published and marketed as Christian fiction, I'm appalled.
That's not to say I don't appreciate Christian authors and publishers tackling controversial topics.
What a wonderful book this was!! The whole time I was picturing myself sitting on the front porch of this great place they called The Hideaway. It is a fabulous story about love, life, family and friends. I loved it from the very first page to the very last page and I didn't want this book to end. Highly recommend to everyone!!!!!
She also begins to uncover the secrets her grandmother closely guarded and starts to fall in love with the charming contractor refurbishing what is quickly becoming her home.This book is written in two sets of alternating chapters.
The other chapters are written from the perspective of Mags, Sara's grandmother, dating from the 1960s as Mags escaped an unfaithful husband, learned to love again, stand on her own feet, and never again let someone's judgement shape who she was.The Hideaway is set in the Deep South of the USA and is predictably charming.
Sara Jenkins owns a successful antiques store in New Orleans.
Her one surviving family member, her grandmother, Mags, runs a bed and breakfast called The Hideaway in Sweet Bay, Alabama.
But as she spends more time with the locals and then starts unearthing shocking information about her grandmother's dramatic, passion-filled past, Sara finds herself more and more invested in the fate of The Hideaway and her future in Sweet Bay.This is a solidly entertaining book.
Basically, The Hideaway is the perfect "good grief, I just need a mental break!" kind of book.
I realize I am in the minority here but I am 50% in to this story and I can not bear to turn another page. I love southern fiction and I hate to not finish a book. I had very high hopes because I love the setting and the premise, but it just isn't working for me.
I was headed away for vacation and I thought it would be fun to read this book while away.
(Note: Although I wouldn't condone a book that is written like this, I would give more leeway in a review if the book wasn't published by a Christian publishing company.
It's mainly because of the expectations I had because of the publishing company that made me so disappointed with the book.) I read the first fourth or third of the book, before realizing that the sin the characters were so obviously indulging in probably wasn't going to be addressed, but instead was being endorsed.
Sara get a call from Sweet Bay informing her that her grandmother, Mag’s has passed away.
With the help of Mag’s friends, Sara pieces together a mysterious life of bravery, passion and choices that changed Mag’s destiny.When an opportunistic land developer threatens to seize The Hideaway by eminent domain, Sarah is forced to make a choice.
She could stay in Sweet Bay and fight for the house and the people she's grown to love or leave and return to her successful but solitary life in New Orleans.REVIEWTHE HIDEAWAY is creatively told from the two interwoven perspectives of Mag’s and Sara.
If not, how could she leave the house to Sara in her will.
This was simple & sweet, and left me longing for an eccentric southern grandmother who lived in such a glorious Hideaway home.
The book jumps back and forth between Mags telling her story which spans primarily from 1960 to present with an emphasis of one timeframe in the early sixties and Sara telling her story which spans less than a year in present day post Mags death.
Both are told in 1st POV with Mags telling her story and Sara telling her story.
In fact right after finishing the book, I had a hard time remembering Sara's name.With the 1st POV narrative, most of the secondary characters are woefully undeveloped.
Mags is supposed to end up this strong independent character but again, just because I'm told that doesn't make it so.
Sara who runs an antique shop in New Orleans inherits the Hideaway an old ramshackle Bed and Breakfast in Sweet Bay Alabama when her Grandmother Maggie passes.
As she works to improve the place and meets her Grandmother's senior friends who still board there she learns about her family's history and the joys of the both " the families we are given and the families we choose."I love an old house story, having lived in one in the historic part of my city for almost 30 years.
So naturally this easy to read story best read while on the front porch swing with a glass of sweet tea appealed to me.
This is a lovely story!
Sweet, heartwarming and should be read with tea or wine depending on the time of day.A book about a Grandmother and Granddaughter relationship.
Mags (Grandma) and Sara (Granddaughter) speak about their lives in separate chapters.
I wasn't surprised that Sara thought of Mags as always being a Grandma.
But after Mags death Sara finds out who Mags was besides a grandma.
Mags is strong and brave, loving and charitable.
This journey lends Sara some courage and strength to face and overcome some of her own demons.
I forgot how much I like Chic Lit.
This is Southern Fiction, complete with strong women, a shady family tree, nights on the porch, and a little romance.
The romance was a little sweeter than I like, but the story had much more going on than just that one little story.
I loved the mystery, the family history, and the relationships.
It highlighted friendship, love, moving on and doing the right thing (but I'm not saying it would have been my right thing.) I liked the way the author anchored the journey with the details.
There were two different POVs and I liked them both.
The Hideaway is Denton’s first novel and she comes out swinging.
With strong female protagonists in a southern town we’d all love to adopt as our own, this novel has a Karen White-esque feel.
The Hideaway is a fantastic novel told from two points of view- Sara and her grandmother, Mags.
After Mags passes away, Sara is brought back home to Sweet Bay, Alabama.
What should have been a simple trip turns into a mystery waiting to be solved.
Do yourself a favor and sit down in Sweet Bay. You'll never want to leave.
The Hideaway is a sweetly charming debut novel by Lauren K.
The Hideaway is set in the deep South and begins with Sara going back to her grandmother's estate in Alabama called The Hideaway.
Sara is then thrust into putting the puzzle pieces of her grandmother's mysterious life together.
Generational stories, romance, mystery, and southern charm.
Note to Christian readers::: While this novel was published by Thomas Nelson I wouldn't consider it Christian fiction, but rather General fiction.
This book got me out of a month long reading slump. After picking up many books this month , not becoming invested in the story and putting them down, something about this book grabbed me. I very quickly connected to the characters and became invested in their lives. A fun, heartwarming southern fiction read seemed to be just what I needed at this moment.
I feel like it is more rare that I really can't put books down, but this was one of them.
It really was something I could relate to, especially her marriage situation.This is not a typical "Christian fiction" story.
I would recommend this book to those that want to see inside how a woman might have dealt with abuse in her marriage in a very non-descriptive way, in that time period.
It does have the insinuation of sex, outside of marriage, but without detail.You will be transported to the beach, want to own a B&B or take in older couples when you read this.
I love the idea of the overall story line in this novel, but I simply couldn't get into this book.
Now I think for the most part this was dealt with in a decent way and it's not the reason I didn't love this book.
This is just my opinion and I hate saying negative things about books but I have to be honest.
I also think this author has some great potential and I will want to pick up her next book!That being said many people have given this book a five star rating so I know others have loved it.
This was an absolutely perfect and charming Southern fiction story. I fell in love with the wonderful cast of characters, and the setting made me want to live in Sweet Bay! The author's writing really made the story feel real and it was easy to imagine myself immersed in this world. I'm already hoping there will be a sequel to this book so I can see what the characters are up to next!
PredictableThis is a book that could have been written by anyone at anytime. The writing is superficial and the plot is predictable. It's not bad, but kind of like eating at McDonald's- you know there's a lot better stuff out three.
Loved loved LOVED IT. Best of 2018 Backlist for sure. Also, my favorite settings ever - Alabama Gulf Coast + New Orleans. Lauren K Denton is officially on my auto-buy list after loving this one and HURRICANE SEASON so much ❤️
Sometimes it was uncomfortable -- especially Mags's story line -- but I feel like I have stretched and grown from it.Some reviewers will say there isn't an inspirational thread.
Sara, in present day, returns to The Hideaway to deal with the aftermath of her grandmother's death.
Past and present are exquisitely woven together into a rich tapestry of life and love, loss and hope.I love that the B&B is called The Hideaway -- because that's what it became for Mags.
It's details like this that make The Hideaway such an exquisite read and give avid readers so much to talk about.
