https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16352.Black_Coffee
Osborne had written a scholarly work about Christie’s fiction that was praised by the Christie estate; Osborne, encouraged by this, proposed to write a novelization of one of her plays and they enthusiastically agreed.
The Mousetrap is one of the very, very successful ones, obviously, the longest running play of all time, well-written, great theatre; Black Coffee was one of Christie’s early attempts at drama that was pretty well received, as she was an author of international renown already by this time, but it is now seen as a very minor work in the Christie universe, though two films were actually made of the play.
The story whilst a good one was just missing something that lifted it into the realms of a true Poirot book, it missed that "Agatha-ness", that only she could give it.
Japp was another, he makes an appearance, does very little and thats it.No, this was not good and to me only just scraped 3 stars, how Matthew Pritchard (Agatha Christie's grandson) can say "Agatha would be proud to have written it" I do not know.(I bought this book especially for the challenge, but shall be passing it on to a charity shop, as I shall never re-read)
No, I cannot....no to Poirot in tweeds.I am all in favour of fan fiction, especially when it is done well.
After all, he did write the book some 20 years after Christie's death.My dismay at Agatha Christie Ltd and the publishers for allowing this book to be published as part of the official series is not, however, solely because it is so obvious that it was a financial decision to milk the franchise.I'm disliking that this book should be the best available work of fan fiction and should be worthy of publication - especially when readers may pick this up and actually think it was written by Christie.
This addition to the Poirot series is really the novelisation of a 1930’s play, published in 1998 and adapted by Charles Osborne.Sir Claud Amory is a reclusive and rich scientist, who has currently devised a formula for a new explosive.
He now fears one of his household is trying to steal the formula and asks Poirot to come and stay and then return to London and give it to the ministry.
These include the scientist’s son, who has money problems, his young, Italian wife, Lucia, who has a shady past and the guest, of whom, little is known.
Although this book includes Hastings and Japp, both have only minor parts.
Отново Агата Кристи и отново случай, който гениалният детектив Еркюл Поаро поема. Този път жертвата беше известен учен, а причината за убийството му - скъпа и опасна химична формула, способна да причини множество щети. Заподозрените, в случая - роднините на жертвата и най-приближените му приятели, остават под ключ в дома му, докато Поаро и неговият добър приятел Хейстингс се заемат и с най-дребните подробности около убийството. Стилът, както винаги бе завладяващ, а Агата Кристи отново поднасе интригуващи обрати и не по-малко интересни заподозрени.
A play featuring Hercule Poirot turned into a novel by Charles Osborne. Well, all I can say is, he shouldn't have.
As a Poirot novel, this one felt very weak in comparison to many others. Maybe, because it was an adaption from a play. The characters are forgettable and there are very few twists. You could even guess the ending. Strictly for Poirot fans.
I picked up this book with low expectations.
In fact, if I wasn't such an awful completist I would have skipped this little outlier altogether.
Being merely an adaptation of Agatha Christie's foray into playwriting, it lacks the Dame's impeccable style.
It's too heavy on dialogue, and sometimes is too deceptively easy to figure out.
I'm saying "deceptively" because after all it is still Christie's storyline.
Surprisingly, it was an enjoyable light read.
Perhaps not on the level of her average work, and certainly not even close to her defining volumes, but Black Coffee cannot be called a waste of time.
I don't know what took me so long to finally read it.
At first I was really interested in this book because it wasn't really written by Agatha, like at all.
It's very hard since it wasn't written by Agatha (who's writing I've fallen in love with) but it's apart of the Hercule Poirot Series.
I'm probably not making sense at all to anyone who hasn't touched a book within this series but just know it was hard to write this review.Okay, so, I didn't really love this book but I also didn't end up fucking hating it either.
আসলে বলযাক কফি নামে আগাথা করিসটি কোন উপনযাস লিখে যাননি। এটা মূলত তার একটি নাটকের নভেলাইজেশন। সেই কারণেই হোক আর মূল পলটের কারণেই হোক, একদমই টানেনি বইটা। কিছু কিছু কষেতরে পোয়ারো আর হযাসটিংসকে দিয়ে এমন এমন কাজ করিয়েছেন লেখক যা একেবারেই তাদের চরিতরের সাথে বেমানান। রিকমেনড করবো না, এর চেয়ে আরও দারুণ দারুণ উপনযাস আছে পোয়ারোকে নিয়ে। বছরের শুরুটা ভালো হলো না।
আসলে ব্ল্যাক কফি নামে আগাথা ক্রিস্টি কোন উপন্যাস লিখে যাননি। এটা মূলত তার একটি নাটকের নভেলাইজেশন। সেই কারণেই হোক আর মূল প্লটের কারণেই হোক, একদমই টানেনি বইটা। কিছু কিছু ক্ষেত্রে পোয়ারো আর হ্যাস্টিংসকে দিয়ে এমন এমন কাজ করিয়েছেন লেখক যা একেবারেই তাদের চরিত্রের সাথে বেমানান। রিকমেন্ড করবো না, এর চেয়ে আরও দারুণ দারুণ উপন্যাস আছে পোয়ারোকে নিয়ে। বছরের শুরুটা ভালো হলো না।
Black Coffee was first written as a play by Christie herself and should have remained as such instead of adapted into a "novel." This adaptation is written by Charles Osborne, who is, according to the book jacket, "a world authority on theater and opera." While Osborne may be well-known, I believe a classic like Christie's Black Coffee should not have been altered by writing style.
I hope to read the play itself (Black Coffee) soon for comparison as well as other actual Christie's novels.
Instead, Christie wrote a play called "Black Coffee." However it was not turned into a novel.
I have no idea why anyone thought the guy could pull this off, and the foreword by Christie's nephew talking about what a good job Osborne did must have been in jest.This is a bad novel aping to sound like Christie.
Yes, Poirot is vain, but is not so far up his own ass that he would be acting like he does in this book.
Instead Poirot goes to Amory's home to help and of course finds him dead.
Of course my first thought is who drinks coffee after dinner.
I am a huge fan of Agatha Christie and have read virtually everything she ever wrote so I felt drawn to this book.
This book was written as a novel several years after her death by Charles Osborne and I think it is plain to see.
Although the plot is the same the Christie polish is missing.This book does not deserve to be mentioned in the same breath as any of Agatha Christie's actual novels and I think that it is a bit misleading to identify this adaptation of her play as her novel, she was far better than that.
She wrote it as a play and then 68 years later Charles Osborne, the foremost and in my opinion a very poor Christie 'expert', came along and turned it into this godawful mess of a novel.
Anyone who has read even one or two Christie novels featuring this duo should know that this is something Hastings would actually NEVER do.
In fact, he often chastises Poirot for exactly this behavior as it is not 'playing the game'.
Poirot often replies to these complaints of Hastings that "Murder is not a game".
***3.5***Sir Claud Amory calls Poirot to help him to find the one who is intending to steal a new formula for a new type of explosive.
But before Poirot arrives,Sir Claud Amory is poisoned and dead.
Novelization by Charles Osborne is not upto the standards of Agatha Christie but still it was good.
I could find the narration different and the way the story moved completely different from how Original Christie novel would have.
“The first Poirot novel in twenty years” says the blurb.
Except it isn’t twenty years, since Christie’s contribution was done in 1930; and it isn’t a novel, it’s a novelisation.
And it’s a novelisation done by someone without the courage (and perhaps the talent) to make changes to the play.
So something we might well have been distracted from on stage by the movements and dialogue of other characters has now been put in in plain sentences: “Look At This: This Is The Clue.” I might have given the play four or five stars, but this book rates only two.
Ünlü Fizikçi Sir Claud buluşunun çalınmasından endişe ettiği için Hercule Poirot’u evine davet eder. Poirot arkadaşı Hasting ile eve vardığında çok geçtir Sir Claud’un cansız bedeniyle karşılaşır ve katilin kim olduğunu aramaya başlar.
Hercule Poirot is asked to come to the country estate of Sir Claud Amory to unmask the traitor in his midst.
Amory is a famous scientist and has been working on a formula for a new explosive for the government – a weapon that would change the course of war.
And where is the missing formula?Most of the elements of a classic Poirot “locked room” mystery are here: a country estate, a variety of characters / suspects, a mysterious secret (or two, or three), and Poirot’s amazing “little gray cells.” The dialogue is typical Christie, but the connective tissue of the novel lacks her sparkle.
For an avid Agatha Christie fan, I remember being so excited--a "new" book!And then I read it.
Too many elements reminded me of other, better novels (actually written by Dame Agatha Christie herself).
There were no surprises, no Christie prose; Poirot didn't sound or act like *my* Poirot, and Hastings wasn't Hastings.
Doesn't make him qualified to rewrite her work, plaster her name over the cover, and mislead her fans.For anyone who reads this book before any other Agatha Christie: I tell you, it only goes up from here.This book still hangs out on my shelf, but only because it's the only Christie--excuse me, pseudo-Christie--book that lists all of her novels in publication order.
Disappointed with Alibi which was a stage adaptation of The Murder of Roger Ackroyd, Agatha wrote this play featuring Hercule Poirot in 1929.
It was her first attempt at writing a play.
It was first staged in 1930 at Embassy Theatre, London.
Years later in 1956 Charles Osborne played the role of Dr Carelli when the play was being staged at Tunbridge Wells.
In 1998 Chrles Osborne novelised this play which was published by Harper Collins.
Nothing spectacular about the plot, it is average story line.
Average read.
The book is a novelisation of an Agatha Christie play and I couldn't help imaging the theatrical version as I was reading.
I often thought I'd spotted comments directed to the audience, humourous comments that would make the audience laugh, entrances and exits to the stage.
The scenes had something static about them too (obviously the scene would stay the same and characters come and go.This didn't detract from the reading experience however.
In some ways, it added to the interest and has made me want to see a Christie play someday.The plot wasn't one of Christie's most cunning or elaborate, but I enjoyed the book all the same.
3,5 ⭐ Se nota bastante que esta novela NO fue escrita por Agatha Christie. Me faltó esa vuelta de rosca que tienen por lo general sus libros, y más desarrollo de los personajes, pero en general fue divertido y no adiviné al culpable, como siempre jaja...😂
3,5 ⭐️ Se nota bastante que esta novela NO fue escrita por Agatha Christie. Me faltó esa vuelta de rosca que tienen por lo general sus libros, y más desarrollo de los personajes, pero en general fue divertido y no adiviné al culpable, como siempre jaja...😂
This was okay, but it was nothing spectacular. That makes sense, as it was not actually written by Agatha Christie. I wish I had known that before I bought it.
The novel Black Coffee is an adaptation of the play Black Coffee written by Agatha Christie. I'd highly recommend first time readers of Mrs. Christie not pick this one up first. And that's what I've got to say about that.
This was my first Agatha Christie novel, I actually enjoyed this book.
It was kinda cheesy and read like a grown up Nancy Drew mystery.
The main character Hercule Poirot was extremely arrogant and at times condescending and it was loaded with lots of racial slurs (it was set in England in 1934) but besides that it was entertaining.
“I would have gotten away with it if it hadn’t been for those meddling kids” Lol. As a child Nancy Drew and Scooby-Doo were my favorites so it made me happy!
I’m actually looking forward to reading more books by Miss Christie!
2.5, rounded up. Eh. The dialogue was on point, but yeah, you can tell that this was a novelization not written by Christie.
I am sorry, Tori!
I *did* want to like this one!
I imagine as a play this would be quite fun, especially because you would have to pay attention to catch the details of the characters' actions.
However, in a novel, it is very easy to track their movements and gestures and I figured out the murderer pretty quickly.
I kept waiting for a shocking twist that never came!
(view spoiler)[ Though oddly enough, I was assisted in my "sleuthing" by a memory of someone straightening a vase that contained a missing document...though I haven't read this book before or seen the play.
(hide spoiler)]
This is a novelization of a play by Agatha Christie. The adapter, however, is not Agatha Christie and does not have her skills. The writing is clunky at best and the characters are stereotypes through and through. It's a testament to Christie's original plot though that this is essentially enjoyable if taken on its own terms as a simple, conventional English-country-house mystery.
Sir Cluade facing some serious problem regarding his experiments and formulas for his work.So, to safe guard it, he making call to Hercule Poirot and informing him to come and collect the formula and take it back to London.On the day of arrival, Poirot pick his Captain friend Hastings with him for collection of formulas.
During that time, Mrs.Amory, daughter-in-law of Sir Claude, told Hercule to stay back and find the truth behind the death.Richard called Dr.Graham.
During that time, Lucia entered and try to take cup, but she don't have the knowledge of Poirot presence and when he inquired, she told she came for bag.
3 ⭐I quite liked this Poirot book, for it was quick and easy. I didn't exactly enjoy the overdramatics, but you can't really escape them with Christie. I did like the 3rd person POV and the fact that we got a little taste of the action before Poirot got involved. It gave the readers a possibility to try and solve the crime themselves from the beginning, rather than rely on a 2nd person POV.
3 ⭐️I quite liked this Poirot book, for it was quick and easy. I didn't exactly enjoy the overdramatics, but you can't really escape them with Christie. I did like the 3rd person POV and the fact that we got a little taste of the action before Poirot got involved. It gave the readers a possibility to try and solve the crime themselves from the beginning, rather than rely on a 2nd person POV.
