https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57736.Shoeless_Joe
Featuring the characters who star in the film as well as additional personae and locations, it was a joy for me to reread this novel filled with examples of magical realism on and off of the baseball diamond.
Kinsella ends with the same speech by Salinger that he recites on screen: "I don't have to tell you that the one constant through all the years has been baseball.." As a fan of the game, this soliloquy resonates to me as to why I eagerly await spring training each winter.
His field is magical for all who view it live as I have, in print, or on screen.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Is this some kind of religion?”“It may be.”  If you are a fan of America’s pastime, there’s a good chance you believe the same. My Sunday “church” is the Little League fields of flyover country and I couldn’t think of a better book to read on opening weekend . . . .  Unless you’ve been living in a box (♫♪♫living in a cardboard box♫♪♫) you have probably heard of Shoeless Joe, at least in its movie format Field of Dreams. In case you h
Unless you’ve been living in a box (♫♪♫living in a cardboard box♫♪♫) you have probably heard of Shoeless Joe, at least in its movie format Field of Dreams.
In case you haven’t, this is the story of Ray, an Iowa farmer who hears a mysterious voice one day telling him .
Ray immediately knows what he needs to build and the “he” who will be coming.
. It’s a story about faith and family and finding inner peace and it might just make you believe that a little cornfield in Iowa might really be heaven .
I'd been fascinated by the story of Shoeless Joe since, many years ago, I bought an album by an English singer called Joe Jackson which featured a pair of shoes as the only image on its cover - it persuaded me to delve into the history of this famous baseball player, renowned for his hitting as well as (of course) the Black Sox Scandal.J D Salinger - who features strongly in this book, as a result of a imaginary meeting - wrote only one significant offering to literature, but it remains remains one of the few books I've read more than once.
I don't have enough words to say how much I loved this book.
I've waited a long time to read it.
If you have ever watched the movie, Field of Dreams and love baseball, this book is a must read.
The text is as magic as the story line.
Kinsella's text can transport you.
He can paint a masterpiece with words.
They are sprinkled throughout the story, like crows in a field after it has been mowed.
(My words, not his.)"April arrives, tender and personal as the breath of animals in a barn; snow shrinks from the sun.
The fields puddle.
If you enjoyed the movie Field of Dreams, you owe it to yourself to read Shoeless Joe. What makes this book such a joy to read is Kinsella’s powers of description.
He creates characters that you love or hate - sometimes both in the course of the story - but to whom you just can’t remain indifferent.
These are the tools that Kinsella uses to frame his central message of striving for what we believe in and that is what makes this an important novel.
This is also a book about how vital those who believe in us are to our dream-chasing.
Wow! I saw the movie years ago and I just picked this book up to have something to read at the beach. I was blown away. Kinsella has a beautiful way with language. As the cover says, this is not just a book about baseball. It is a book about love and memories, about the truth of our lives, and, in the end, like so many other great works, it is about fathers and sons and the heart rending distance between them that is filled with longing and love and the inability to express it. It left me in tears.

It touches all of your senses as you read: you can feel the grass and dirt under your feet, smell the worn leather of a baseball glove, see the lights come on in the stadium, and barely make out Shoeless Joe as he walks toward you from that door by the cornfield.
Normally, a book this size (224 pages) I should've finished in two days.
I think the phrase 'magical realism' was invented to describe this book.
If you haven't read it (or at least watched Field of Dreams), even if you're not a baseball or sports person, please give it a shot.
The prose reads like poetry and breeds fantasy and wonder.
The author puts his reader right in the moment with present-tense, stream-of-consciousness-style narration.
For someone like me, who grew up with the movie, it is impossible not to hear Kevin Costner's voice as I read, and to see the imposing figure and hear the booming voice of James Earl Jones, despite the fact that I know it is the fictional version of J.
It provides hope for those of us who want to believe in the impossible without being disillusioned.I am thrilled to have read this book.
They're ghosts of themselves playing the game they love for an audience of three, but that will change."Field of Dreams" is a favorite for any baseball fan and being set in an Iowa cornfield just adds to the pleasure of us mid-westerner's who growing up in what seems like a never ending sea of corn usually thought only of boredom attached to that uniform green standing tasseled forever waves of grain.
So I'm awful biased in loving this book 'cause baseball and cornfields and Chicago Cubs/Sox and redheaded loving woman are parts of my own field of dreams which got played out for real with this magical game of a story!
Magical realism done right! I read this years ago but was recently reminded of it and recalled how much I enjoyed it. The book is a bit different from the movie, and I liked them both. If you like baseball or magical realism, check it out.
The story's great, though.
And I spent a fair amount of time wanting to punch J.D. Salinger, which seems about right given my previous experience with his "character's" work.
Casting James Earl Jones as a reclusive counter-culture writer in the movie instead of Salinger was a great choice, IMO (as if casting Darth Vader is ever wrong).
It's rare in my experience that a movie seems to improve upon a book, but in this case I think Field of Dreams managed to translate the story into something much more emotional and memorable.
Writer W.P. Kinsella did things his way. In failing health, he chose to end his life early Friday afternoon.“W.P. (Bill) Kinsella invoked the assisted dying provisions of Bill C-14, at Hope, B.C., and passed away at 12:05 p.m. … Friday, Sept. 16, 2016,” said a statement from his agent, Carolyn Swayze.
I've wanted to read this book for years but could never find it, so I was pretty excited to finally find a Kindle copy for cheap.
It's the book that the film Field of Dreams with Kevin Costner was based on, which I have always loved, so I was curious to read the original.Firstly, it's just really gorgeously, poetically written.
The only thing I didn't love was the way it kind of romanticized/whitewashed the "good ol' days," back when life was good/simple/wholesome/relaxed/etc.
See The Way We Never Were: American Families & the Nostalgia Trap).Still.
A beautiful, heartwarming love letter to baseball, family, & dreams.
I don't remember when I first read this.
Probably shortly after Field of Dreams came out.
I loved that movie, and the book was damn good.
Baseball, magic, love...
someone or other called this a male romance novel, and they're not far off, really.
Ray Kinsella is prompted by a Voice that comes from nowhere to build a baseball field in the middle of his farmland.
Strange and wonderful things happen, bringing magic to a small corner of Iowa.
Ray connects with a legendary author and gets some surprises about his own family.
I am not a baseball person by any means, despite Cooperstown being 45 minutes away. Maybe that is why I did not love this book. Maybe it's because I'm a curmidgeonly young person who hates those tourists who find it in their best interest to do 30 MPH in a 45 MPH, and the main character Ray, reminded me of those tourists. Read the rest of my review here
What an amazing book!
Although I have on occasion read a book after seeing the movie it inspired, never have I wished so much that I had experienced them in reverse order.
As I read, I tried to think of how surprising the book would be had I never seen the movie.
I will say this--the movie does a wonderful job of capturing the feel of the book.As a lifelong baseball fan, I enjoy how Kinsella has captured the wonder and magic of the sport.
I had to laugh a few times, because I never thought I would feel that someone had (just possibly) over-glorified the game!
It's an excellent book.
So, Ok I am no critic – This is one book I have wanted to read for some time.
With the 2016 season just about to start I thought it was a good a time as ever to pick up what many consider one of the best novels written around the game of baseball.
I think the game itself is better developed as a character than some of the actual persons in the novel.
The problem for me was, at times, it's hard to connect to some of the characters and story line.
The main character, Ray Kinsella, does build a ball field outside his corn field on his Iowa farm because he heard a ballgame announcer tell him..."build it and he will come." And sure enough, once he is finished with left field, Shoeless Joe Jackson of the infamous 1919 Chicago Black Sox does appear and lets him know that the entire team will come when the ball field is complete.
This story is so inspiring and yet so down to earth and simple, it just seems too good to have been written. But it was, and the prose to describe the journey Ray takes because a voice told him to build "it" (a baseball field) is great. Definitely a five star read. Instead of a full review, I am saving some comments for the discussion on this book that will start October 1 in the Baseball Book Club.
A "grand slam." (Don't groan too loudly!) An easy read (it was in the young adult section of my library) but the prose is really lovely. The story is similar to the movie that was based on it, Field of Dreams, but has more characters, who are all much more interesting. I learned about the Black Sox scandal and the class tensions behind it. Interesting!I highly recommend it. I'd offer to lend out my copy, but I don't own it.
Haunting, spiritual, and written with such lovely, dedicatedly prosody, this is an Arthurian Quest, a history of the American spirit, and the story of cynicism and idealism, dream chasing and practicality, two halves of the same whole uniting in one perfect game. I've taught this book and read this book, and I've adored every minute of it. And I'm not even a fan of baseball.
Once I learned this book was the basis for Field of Dreams, it went onto my tbr.
I grab it, I read it, life is good.This is one of those rare situations where I'd say the movie beats the book.
I liked this, don't get me wrong, but the movie pared things down enough that it was a more focused, less diffuse experience.
Again, there are awkward and silly elements, but I was able to let them slide, open my mind and go with the flow.
I hope you are willing and able to do the same.
I love the movie, it makes me cry like some people cry watching "The Notebook".
I'm not even a huge baseball fan, but I have the soundtrack so I can put it on in case I need a good cry.
I came across the book at a thrift store.
At first it wasn't grabbing me, but about 45 pages in, I was hooked.
All the writing about Iowa really got me.
They did take quite a few liberties when they made the film, but I like them both, and that's not a common thing, as it seems that usually book or film disappoints.
Shoeless Joe is the basis for Field of Dreams but is quite different than the movie. Kinsella masterfully created a fantasy that pays homage to baseball as a classic game that pulls people together over multiple generations. I especially loved the literary nature of Jerry in the story. Recommended for baseball fans who like literature or literature fans who can appreciate baseball. Of particular note, Kinsella's description of the love between Ray and Annie was perfect throughout the entire book. Wonderful book that is a high four star rating at perhaps 4.7 or 4.8.
The most romantic novel I have ever read.
This book is about the love of baseball, known for decades as the American Pastime.
The book is also about the love of the land and this is one of the themes that gets trimmed.
Finally, the book and the movie are about having the courage to fearlessly follow your dreams when you know that they're in the right.The novel clearly falls into the Magical Realism school and the movie makes that even more apparent.
However it is nice to see a black man in this film that is firmly centered on pre-Jackie Robinson baseball.I'd recommend this to baseball fans, fans of dreamers, fans of writers and to fans of fathers and sons.
I found it to be MUCH better than the movie with Kevin Costner that came out shortly afterwards.
The book is light, fun, playful, full of warmth but never takes itself too seriously.
In the book the hero is much more whimsical, and takes an almost playful attitude towards his impossible quest.
One thing I didn't like was the way baseball is promoted constantly -- not as a fun pastime, or even a character-building sport, but literally as a substitute religion that will replace Christianity.
That is the basic idea behind WP Kinsella's novel, "Shoeless Joe".This is the book upon which the 1980s movie "Field of Dreams" was based.
This novel is more a story about real life people than it is about athletes and sports stars.
The people of this novel have dreams and ambitions that they never really fulfill.
And then, one day, the world of sports and their own world collide, and they discover that dreams are not nearly as unreachable as they had thought.Kinsella is an excellent writer and he crafts a story here with vivid characters and a profound plot.
Occasionally, I actually like a movie adaptation better than the book.
It's not really fair since I happen to love the movie Field of Dreams and my opinion on the book is 100% biased because of that fact.
Shoeless Joe is also more important in the movie and there seems to be more of a point to the story.
Again, I grew up with the movie and I've seen it a million times in the last 28 years, so my book experience was tainted from the start.
I'm always fascinated how movie adaptations change a story and this is one instance where I assume the author was satisfied.
