https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2023437.The_Secret_of_the_Ages
The Secret of the Ages, does not tell you any "secret". There are no secrets anymore, only people who choose or chooose not to see what is self-evident. The power of the mind and your attitude will determine your success in life. This book is well written and oranized, easy to read but ultimately you will have to do the work for this book to be of use.
AMAZING, AMAZING, AMAZING..... THIS IS THE BOOK THAT STARTED THE AWAKENING OF MY MIND AND SOUL..... A MUSTTTT READDDD :D
Alhamdulillah, finally finished read(red) this book.
What i got and learned from this book is that the mind is the powerful thing that human ever had.
Which we should be thankful to God that created us a Human being.
Another thing that i like about this book is the author himself show step by step on how to control Mind by using conscious mind - subconscious mind - universal mind.
He explained it with easy to understand and reasonable.Insya'allah.
I just need to practice it and make an effort to achieve what i want in my life by using the guidance of this book.
Life changing book for me. One of three in fact, the others being Meditations by Marcus Aurelius, and The greatest salesman in the world by Og Mandino. Very into motivational books and loved this book. Excellent self-help/ self-improvement book- but remember you only get out of it what you put in it.
"The Law of Supply" - much like Emerson's Essay on Compensation, this chapter more plainly describes how to get what you need out of life...to demand it through thoughts, words and deeds.As I state in most of my reviews, these types of books have to be "tuned" to the ear (or eyes!) of the reader and they are not for everyone.
There are chapters that I have skipped having read them once, but there are others that I have read dozens of times over the years...it is truly a top 10 favorite of my library of "friends".Get this book for your success collection!
او من الجنة جحيما ))الكتاب ليس مليئا بالأفكار الجديدة بالنسبة لي 52 فكرة أظن ان نسيانها صعب لأن مع كل فكرة تطرح هناك العديد من الأمثلة التي تدعمها و الآراء التي تناقضها.
الفكرة الجديدة بالنسبه لي هي فكرة (( العقل الجمعي )) أو (( تفكير القطيع )) أو ما إلى ذلك من المفردات التي تؤدي إلى أن المجتمع يحتوي على أفكار موروثة بشكل غير واع .
في النهاية يمكنني اختصار افكار الكتاب و محاوره في جملة قد لا يهتم بها البعض مقتبسة من خاتمة الكتاب و هي (( سوف تتعجب في النهاية بكونك الشخص الوحيد الذي يمكنه تغيير الأمور))كتاب فيه الكثير من المعلومات و الآراء و الامثلة
This book has been a great confidence builder for me. It is another great book of self discovery it has taught me how to deal with life in a positive way with learning how to deal with other people with learning how to deal myself.
It was a bit overlong and repetitive for my tastes, but I can see why focusing on one single thing and pursuing it fully can create success.
Mentioned in Symbols
Loved this: a combination of Think and Grow Rich and The Secret
Reading this for the second time, to feel the power of positive beliefs, the energy that is brought by positive feelings
A classic. I thought that the better known "The Secret" is a complete ripoff of this less well-known, but much better book.
Fabulous! So inspiring!
What a great book!
This is one of the first motivational books that I read back in the early 1980's that changed my mindset as far as seeking success.
This book addresses the spiritual, mental and financial areas of our lives.
The right mental attitude is so important in our present and future success.
" Whatever you can visualize-and BELIEVE in-you can accomplish." "As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he." Our place in life is immensely influenced by out mental attitude.
This book is a must read for the person who wants to change their attitude, and quit feeling sorry for themselves and start to become what they were meant to be.
I had to double check that I was reading the correct book after reading the reviews on Goodreads. This book is very sexist and racist! The whole chapter on using “mental brownies” to fetch information in your mind made my stomach turn. Not to mention the section about racial memory. Did reviewers not read this?! How disappointing to know other books (the Secret) have used his premise and chose to look the other way.
I've read so many books like this, it became a reminder. What you'll learn, all you have to do in life to achieve what ever you want or need? Is to only think about it, everyday. The longer you think about it, the sooner it will happen. The results and outcome of thinking everyday will lead you to do something, to achieve "it."
A lot of sweeping generalizations about all of mankind. He seemed to at some points be writing to all spiritualities and then quickly inserting a Christian bible quote.The last 49 pages literally consist of letters from his adoring fans (with one or two complaints sprinkled in) which I found absolutely hilarious.
Another book from The Prosperity Bible that was overly religious and wordy. As we have repeated so many times, it's important to get clear on what you want and stay connected to your goals every single day as often as possible. Take initiative every day toward your goals. One thing at a time.
Your standard self-help book, but with helpful biblical examples which may or may not be taken out of context.
Great readGod-centered story of the secrets to man's ascension into existence. Powerful read that always keeps you interested in the next page.
Can't this book be downloaded and read offline?
Mis amigos, les comparto mis comentarios sobre el libro “THE SECRETS OF THE AGES” por Robert Collier.Este es un libro que describe con hechos muy sencillos de entender sobre la ley de la atracción, y principios del éxito, yo lo recomendaría a todos aquellos que deseen emprender, o auto descubrimiento personal.
Alguna de las cosas que más me gustaron fue leer sobre la ley de la ganancia que se inicia con el sentimiento de deseo y merecimiento.
El autor nos comenta que las personas están sedientes por seguir a alguien, por la figura de un líder nato.La frase que más me gustó es “La vida es más que una experiencia en una capsula adentro de la menta universal.”
sure it's basically over 90 years old...but truth has no expiration date
Inspiring and motivational. Good read!
لم يضف لي الجديد، لكنه كان جيدًا لترتيب الأفكار.
If I can have only one book in my library, this would be it.
In a world where we place more trust in the material: the world that we perceive through our five senses, authors in the New Age Genre, in this case Robert Collier, share a view that supports a belief in the power of the unseen forces – the power of the mind.
Our subconscious mind is the direct link to the Universal Mind.Once we connect with this force we can start to impress upon it with visualization/imaging and then we need to hold steadfast to the belief that what we desire is on its way.
very good
Collier uses many familiar authors throughout his teachings such as Charles Haanel and Wallace Wattles all great philosophers of the Law of Attraction.
This book has much to offer, regardless that it was written in 1926, its words and ideas still apply today.We still have much to learn from these great men that went before us who opened doors that we would have never been privy to without.I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who wants to go deeper into Universal Laws and who wants to take control over their own life.
First hand I can tell you that what Mr. Collier set forth on his pages works.

