https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118317.Anti_Oedipus
There are lots of parallels I could start to draw here between the events of a certain morning, their effect on me and my future and how this book I can't help but sort of kind of place into the whole fucking mess (joke?) that my life has been ever since something like December 18th 1999, the day I picked this book off the shelf at the philosophy section that I am now responsible for running.
(in fairness I have to include Kafka with this book, since the paper in question was about the Deleuze and Kafka)Anti-Oedipus is like no other philosophy book I'd ever read.
Rather than taking it for granted that people's conscious and unconscious desires are unified under the concept of the "ego," D&G want to show how egos are constructed over time by collections of free-flowing, disparate swarms of desire which aren't bound together in a unity, but are each discrete units themselves.
The aggregate exerts a force greater than any individual, and thus its unity can appear to be primary to the multitude it is really comprised of (Applied to capitalism, the process is analogous to the seduction of individual laborers--desiring-machines--towards the product and eventually capital--body-without-organs--that they produce.
yo capitalism. i have sunbeams coming out of my ass.
When I was in England I joined an informal discussion group about this book. The group included my advisor and his wife. We read the first paragraph and his wife said, "That paragraph is sexist." My advisor swore at his wife, and then the discussion group was done.
I think people FEEL like they should give this book five stars -- but, unlike machines, they are not honest with themselves and feel compelled to rate it higher than it deserves. 1968 drivel.
more like de-loser and gua-farty
It's more or less a critique of the early Lacan's emphasis on the Oedipal complex and the way that emphasis typifies structural analysis in anthropology and psychology, which was trying to edge out philosophy in France at the time.
of Fascism and Sartre's Critique du Raison Dialectique influenced Deleuze's and Guattari's politics around this time, respectively.
If you don't spend a lot of time reading and rereading philosophy, though, either skip this book (and everything by Deleuze) or don't expect to get much more "use" out of it than a magic 8-ball, as another reviewer has written.
Psychoanalysis was from the start, still is, and perhaps always will be a well-constituted church and a form of treatment based on a set of beliefs that only the very faithful could adhere to, i.e., those who believe in a security that amounts to being lost in the herd and defined in terms of common and external goals.My review from 1994 would be gushing, one near febrile abuzz with the insights revealed in this suicide vest of a book.
My 2011 self appreciates the arsenal of metaphors and allusions established.
That is the present project, no?
I've actually had a copy of this book for several months, but, honestly, it keeps tossing me out around page 7 or so.
Like my mind shatters after about 7 pages of this.
It seems like something is going on here that maybe I am not equipped to understand, almost like when I am trying to read a book in an antiquated form of French (because my modern French isn't even very good).
This book is a little vortex, a little black hole that keeps pulling me back to it's place on the shelf, opening it up, and then utterly obliterating me before I can make it past the event horizon.
Don't know if I'll ever actually read this.
As a guide to leading a non-fascist life, this work condenses a great number of ideas, and attempts to dismantle/discourse on the hang-ups of would-be revolutionary groups.I would describe the writing style as delirious.
At times it is very lucid, hitting hard at ideas standing in the way of the non-fascist life and free thought.
The nature of capitalism is to axiomatize, subjugate, repress, "decode" and "deterritorialize" processes that exist outside or contra to the system in order to exploit and co-opt.
They read Oedipus as the paradynamic structuralist handicap on desiring-production, the coding of the unconscious.
Desiring-production is not articulable in a structuralist blueprint and Deleuze & Guattari’s hatred for representation & identity (with Oedipus as the persona non grata of these static cartographies) seems to arise from the tendency of these dynamics to be repressed and coded as ‘nature’.
It is in the third chapter, ‘Savages, Barbarians, Civilized men’ that we get a historical-anthropological account of coding and decoding, deterritorialization and reterritorialization; fluxes of desire pulsating through the social-political field.
The problem here is that D&G believe that these machines are all real--this isn't a metaphor they're using to explain a concept, they think of it as an actuality.And while I can get on board with the idea that we're all more than the sum of our parts, and what our parts "want" is what drives the parts to get together into bigger communities of parts, what I still don't understand is D&G's assertion that a) there is a body without organs which is inscribed with...stuff (??), and b) that there is a clear, logical, and all-but-inevitable progression from "primitive" societies up to capitalism, and once you get to capitalism you're basically stuck.
This book, of which I read about 70%--glossing over much of "The Holy Family" and the first half of "Savages, Barbarians, Civilized Men" (you can do this 'cause they're endlessly recapitulating their main points, of which there are actually very few; the two figures at the beginning of "Introduction to Schizoanalysis" are basically a précis of the preceding 300 pages)--does two things well:1) Explains how "revolutionary" movements can quickly become "reactionary" movements, something of critical importance to the May '68 generation...how one can "flow" into the other, in much the same way that capitalism deterritorializes as far as practicable while still containing within it the germ of the original despotic Ur-state, then pathologizes via Oedipus/psychoanalysis when further "rhizomatic" developments could prove damaging to the status quo.
This is pop philosophy and not serious political thought. If Orwell read this he would have eaten it and then puked it out projectile vomit style. It is the postmodern writing that so terrifies Sokal. All of that being said, it is damned fun to read. Just don't take it too seriously. People who fall deeply into this stuff become pretentious hipster assholes. The introduction by Foucault is important if you want any chance in understanding this mess. It sure could use more footnotes.
1) Oedipus: Power is maintained by our submission to the Oedipus myth; Oedipus myth as a psychological explanation of why the masses accept a system which does not favour their own interests.2) In Western Civilisation desire is conceived of as a means of acquisition rather than a means of production.
This slant is important in maintaining the surplus, capitalist economy and any revolution would have to alter the perception we have of desire.
From a glance at the other reviews on Goodreads this is a kind of book that you will either love or hate.
Most people seem to hate it, which is perhaps logical for the book is deeply subversive, perhaps one of the most subversive works I've ever read.
oedipus?? i hardly knew me mother [seraphs descend from the heavens to highfive the wickedest analysand of all]
This walk outdoors is different from the moments when Lenz finds himself closeted with his pastor, who forces him to situate himself socially, in relationship to the God of established religion, in relationship to his father, to his mother.
While taking a stroll outdoors, on the other hand, he is in the mountains, amid falling snowflakes, with other gods or without any gods at all, without a family, without a father or a mother, with nature.
Shall we conclude then that when the urge strikes to tolle, lege M Deleuze and M Guarttari that we should instead, go for a walk?
to me this was the philosophical equivalent of thinking you know what jazz is (smoky, midnight, bar) and then hearing bitches brew ... challenging but in yr face liberating. i especially admired the strategic use of dull old Kant to mess with heads.
One of the most important philosophical books in 20th century. Not for the beginners.
Review forthcoming...
Deleuze and Guattari seem to use poetry and art in the way that Freud used myth.This is a Marxist analysis applied to psychology, and therefore materialist, focused on production and processes instead of essences.
Deleuze and Guattari specifically use the examples of thermodynamics and molecular biology when describing the various "regimes" that lie within their materialism.The work is also entirely a critique of Freudian analysis.
The Freudian analyst forces a specific and "despotic" interpretation on the psychological subject in order to "cure" them (i.e., reintroduce them into productive society.)Deleuze and Guattari place the individual psychology on a continuum that ranges from unconscious desire on the one end to the specific forms of economic and social production on the other.
In his foreword, M Foucault interprets Anti-Oedipus as a book of ethics.
Instead they invent and combine neologisms like desiring-production, body without organs and deterritorialization to build their philosophy, making for a confounding couple hundred pages before you get a handle on the terminology.
Applying this to the book, the question isn't so much what Anti-Oedipus says or means or describes, it's what it does.So what did Anti-Oedipus do for me?It's made me look at all kinds of activity as flows steered by desire and interest.
The products of these activities are also polyvalent and fuzzy, and fixed definitions won't do.
I have partially read it several more times (it bogs down in the middle and it's hard to push through all the anthropological stuff about "filiation".) I love the way it rips Freud a new one, condemning Oedipus as a fascist mechanism.
I'm convinced that book contains the germ of the way forward for the philosophy of science, but I'll have to read it a dozen more times to see what it is.
As one of the authors said, the important thing about a book is what you can do with it.
This is one of those theory books that I find so much meaning in that I can just open a page and read anything into it. In fact, Frank & I came up with a game called "The Anti-Oedipus 8-Ball" where we walk around with the book and let people ask us questions... then we open a page (any page) and read. Try it; it's like magic or something.
Marx, meet Freud and Lacan. Freud and Lacan, meet Deleuze and Guatarri... they're the ones who are going to drug you, steal your clothes, and walk you naked through the streets. In Anti-Oedipus, D&G introduce and "thoroughly" describe their project of "schizoanalysis".
in my top 5 theory books of all time, and one of my favorite books across genre/divides, period. the style makes me smile every time i read it, and the point is one of the most important to me as well.
I've given up reading philosophy that isn't well-written. Life is too short.
Read it just for this line on page 5 or 6, "The neurotic on the analysts couch we find alot less relevent then the schizophrenic out for a walk" -signed A schizophrenic out for a walk --Kassy
Deleuze along with Guattari debunk with aplomb one of the main tenets in psychoanalytic theory. It's a terrific read.
D&G are fantastic writers imho.
