https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13573236-the-racketeer
The John Grishman of yore has resurfaced with this book. Just when I am beginning to doubt that he is still capable of creating works of the same calibre as his earlier outputs, he came up with this book that is so engrossing I am sure his wayward fans would be resurrected. To say that this has come in the most opportune time is an understatement.
Trying for genius protagonist to outsmart everyone around him, instead of clever plans, Grisham relies on a smart mouth.
Grisham didnt even try.
The book starts with the feds being led around by the nose by a conviceted fellon who claims to know who killed a judge- no evidence, just a jail house snitch who claims to have a lead, and before he'll even give them the lead he wants his sentence commuted.
So they do it- without any incling he might tell the truth at some future point after he is released and that the info will be useful.
Its to the point even his simple math is faulty.
My last grisham book ever.
The reason I have read all of John Grisham's legal novels is that I like the idea of the little guy taking on the big guy, the bully, the "man" in general.
I don't even care if the little guy wins as long as he puts up a good fight.
In this story I kept waiting for Mal/Max to become the good guy.
The people we are supposed to be cheering on (I assume) are drug dealers, thieves, and in general just bad people.
I found myself repeatedly hoping something bad would happen to him and his co-horts (I am not proud of those feelings, but since this is a fictional character, I stand by them).
John Grisham is Back with a Winner!I haven’t read a John Grisham book in a long time. This little gem was picked up recently and it was a pleasant surprise. It moved along at a good pace, had an excellent story line, first class dialogue, and will definitely keep the reader on the edge. It is one of the best books I’ve read in a long time and I thoroughly enjoyed every page.
I felt as though the only reason this was written was so Denzel Washington could star in the film adaptation. The movie could possibly be alright so I would encourage you to wait, but don't be too disappointed if it is a waist of time as well.
(and I've read every one).Here is a short list of the problems with this book:1.) The main character is an unlikable hypocrite.
I didn't know her or care about her and if she had suddenly died the story wouldn't have changed a bit.3.) The outcome is obvious half way through the book.
There is nothing remotely interesting in these 350+ pages.If you are wondering why I kept reading this book it is because it doesn't become obvious how useless this story is until more than halfway through the book.
I am writing this review to warn you not to waste your time reading this book.
At the end after reading the book, I found the author's note saying that none of it was real and that he had not done a lot of research on the topic.
Perhaps it is the sign of a good storywriter that he didn't need to research and that this story just flowed but it almost left me wondering if he's such a powerhouse author that the public will acclaim anything he writes regardless of the effort put into it.
I just never felt as engaged as I'd expect to for a "grisham novel".
Malcolm Bannister was an attorney in a small firm when he was inadvertently caught up in a money laundering scheme, convicted under the RICO statutes, and sent to federal prison.
Moreover, Bannister is an unlikable character who - though he claims to be bereft by his divorce and loss of his son - completely forgets about the boy, making no attempt whatsoever to see or contact him once he's out of prison.
This book is slow, boring, and poorly plotted.
I almost can't believe John Grisham wrote this book.I'd recommend skipping this one.
Starts off with a bang telling a somewhat formulaic "man against the system" story.Despite having seen it before, it's still fun to watch Grisham's main character (former lawyer and wrongly imprisoned Malcolm Bannister) execute an end-run around the powers-that-be.
It is well a thought-out and executed scenario that while unrealistic at times, leaves the reader in a wistful mode wishing it could be so, as Bannister is likeable and has the reader rooting for him.Midway through the novel, the plot takes a tangental swerve into another story line leaving the readers to feel that they are reading another book altogether.
The initial sense of danger for Bannister also seems to disappear.
the assumption is that the killers tortured her to force the judge to open the safe before killing the two of them.Since Fawcett is only the fifth active federal judge ever to have been murdered, the F.B.I. assembles a huge task force to track down the killer or killers, but the task force is virtually at a standstill.
It also raises some chilling questions about the way in which federal authorities may use and possibly abuse their powers.
John Grisham Walks on the Dark Side, for a ChangeWhen you’re reading somebody’s 25th novel — the 31st of all the books he’s written — you’d be right to expect that he’d gotten the hang of writing.
And so it is with John Grisham’s fiendishly clever new novel, The Racketeer.
But no matter how sly and underhanded, his leading characters are almost always guys (or gals) in white hats.Malcolm Bannister is Grisham’s protagonist here.
If you can guess how he does it before the plot fully unfolds, you’re a better person than me.By the way, another of Grisham’s tendencies is to show off his liberal, reformist side, and The Racketeer is no different in that respect.
THE RACKETEER is the first John Grisham novel I have read in ten years-I hadn't realized it had been so long until I looked at the release date of The Last Juror (which I read when it first came out).
Why I waited so long I do not know, they are always fun and quick reads, with lots of twists and turns.
A dead judge..environmental issue...but reading further I saw how different it was going to be...Malcolm Bannister is a former attorney serving a ten year sentence for a crime he didn't commit.
When a federal judge and his secretary are brutally murdered, Malcolm sees his chance at freedom.
I picked up this e-book with great hopes of getting a good courtroom drama, what with the blurb mentioning about a Supreme Court judge being murdered and the protagonist being a lawyer behind bars (the author has introduced a black lawyer as a protagonist).
The plot is about how a lawyer unravels the mystery behind the killing of a Supreme Court judge and his escapades from the FBI and the judicial system.
Folks, by the way, you can recommend to me if you come across any of his books published after circa 2016, which are good reads.
I hadn't read a John Grisham in quite awhile and had been meaning to read this so I picked it up.
I mean, it was the kind of story where the plot just unraveled and nothing else happened.
(view spoiler)[It was also a little far-fetched that Malcolm Bannister, a small town lawyer, was now suddenly capable of all that maneuvering and intricate planning.
(hide spoiler)] The other thing was the characters were not particularly memorable and there was no one to root for so I ended up reading it with a sense of detachment.
It does not disappoint.It is interesting as an innocent black lawyer goes to prison.
I love Grisham's discretion when the lawyer gets a makeover.
I'll never forget that character.The innocent lawyer finds out and is able to use this to get out of prison.
I just don't want to tell you too much, but you will not see the ending coming.You will travel to Virginia, Miami, a few Caribbean islands and their jails, see fake passports used, people tricked, and the good guy running.
The Feds can not figure out how the bad guys find his changed identity.
Malcolm Bannister is a largely unsuccessful lawyer who was imprisoned by an overly aggressive government prosecutor when he accidentally turned his law firm into a shell company for a shady crook who needed to launder a lot of money.
Two years in a minimum-security prison camp are sufficient to turn him from a struggling bungler into a mastermind, and the tangled web of deception he weaves begins when Bannister approaches the FBI with information that can help them solve the execution-style murder of a federal judge.
It's as if upon pulling the first rabbit out of his hat, Bannister was so impressed with himself that he kept doing it -- "And another!
"The Racketeer" is the best Grisham and one of the best crime/thrillers I have ever read. Written in an easy-to-read, straight-forward style, the plot mixes brilliant complexity and multiple surprises in a high-tension manner that doesn't end until the last page. That's all I can say, because to say more, even a single word, might interfere with the joy I think you will have experiencing this book for yourself.
My Grisham fan days are waxing and waning. The book begins with a meandering tale. It shifts into the story of the smartest man in the world, able to leap tall buildings and learn copious amounts of information in no time flat. The plot wasn't bad, but the pay per word spoiled things for me.
I felt like I was on a continuos road trip and the adventure was thrilling.
About half way through the book, I was wondering where the story was taking me, but Grisham wasn't done with this reader, not by a long shot, just another bend in the road.
I did get a little feeling of The Firm as I was reading along, as others might.
After reading though, I felt like people might say "those back woods Virginians are nothing by criminals".
I'm pretty sure we aren't all criminals or back woodsy, but if we're like Bannister, damn we're smart!
Grisham has said that he writes his books to be read in one sitting.
I believe this one was written in one sitting.
Long paragraphs of fiction were used to avoid looking up facts."At 340 pages it's not a quick read, but I believe it was a quick "write." It's a very shallow book with very shallow characters.
There's lots of fantasy and lots of imagination that simply avoid giving credence to his characters or story line or plot.I've read all of Grisham and have really enjoyed many of his books.
This was a fun and twisted story where you are never quite sure what is going on. Grisham does a good job of crafting an unbelievable tale of a falsely accused victim working our federal system to his advantage and turning his bad luck into "gold" .
When he meets fellow prisoner Quinn Rucker, everything changes for Malcolm.I have been hearing about John Grisham books for quite a while now, so when I picked up this novel to begin reading I felt as if I was a latecomer to a party that got underway a long time ago.
With suspense novels, I’m used to short, snappy writing with fast pacing.
We move quickly through the book, but not as fast as what I’m used to.
This won’t be the last John Grisham novel I read.Favourite Quotes“I guess under the right circumstances; a man will do just about anything.”“In the United States we spend $40,000 a year to incarcerate each prison inmate and $8,000 to educate each elementary school student.”
Probably the most contemporary John Grisham book I've read, not really the better for it though.The Racketeer is relayed partly in the first person which made for a nice change of pace at first.
So, it was a no win either way!Basically, this book ends up being criminal against criminal, all plotting and scheming and lying and manipulating.
It's quite depressing to think about, and although human nature is corrupted by sin, I would hope that not every person is motivated by revenge.I'm torn between 2 and 3 stars purely because I would not have been able to stop reading until the end as I had to know what happened.
Malcolm Bannister is halfway through a ten year prison sentence for money laundering, a crime he only technically and innocently committed.
When a federal judge is murdered, he senses an opportunity to obtain his freedom, because he knows who committed the crime and why.
Rules 35 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure allows for a prisoner to be pardoned or have their sentence reduced if they can solve another crime.
Malcolm himself - the narrator for the majority of the book - is never anyone who came to life for me.
It had me hooked from the first page and after that, well, I couldn’t turn the pages quickly enough, keeping me up too late the last couple of nights.The Racketeer is skilfully written, has a engaging story and plot, is nicely paced, has a really clever protagonist in Malcolm Bannister and lots of Feds, I love lots of Feds in a story like this!
This book had everything I really enjoy in a good legal mystery, suspense novel.
I must check out some more of John Grisham’s books that I have failed to read through the years, I have the feeling that I might be missing out on some really good stories.
Recommended if you enjoy legal thrillers, mystery or suspense and are looking for a quick, fast-paced and exciting crime novel.
I believed he was a criminal, and I guess I wanted to believe that he was a guy who was getting his due, but it didn't feel like that.
There were also quite a few scenes that were pure fluff with no tie to reality.
I'll mention one: (view spoiler)[ There is a scene when Vanessa disrobes to answer the door and she realizes too late that she still has on her latex gloves.
It was like the author was trying to put movie scenes in.
So I'll round up, because this one was enjoyable even with the fluff.

Here's Grisham's story checklist:1.
Small-town lawyer who was wronged by the Feds.2.
Righting wrong against Feds (or evil corporations)4.
Attractive woman who helps small-town lawyerThe Racketeer has everything in the Grisham story checklist, but somehow it seems different than The Firm, The Associate, The Pelican Brief, etc.The only question I has is why Grisham even bothers using Random House as a publisher?
Not sure Grisham can't get a new book noticed.
I'm sure Grisham already has a publicist who can get the word out about a new book.
I've read a few other Grisham novels & this one was pretty much the same. They're the better brand of candy reads. In the author's note he mentions that he did absolutely no research for this book. That's OK since it's his standard fare, a lawyer in a tight spot who figures his way out. I think this is the first I've read where the protagonist was black, but that didn't make any difference.The first half built up well & I wondered where the second half would go. It was pretty chilling &a
I've read a few other Grisham novels & this one was pretty much the same.
They're the better brand of candy reads.
I think this is the first I've read where the protagonist was black, but that didn't make any difference.The first half built up well & I wondered where the second half would go.
It was pretty chilling & took a lot of the shine off our sterling hero.
I really liked the way he built one guy into a sympathetic character & then had the hero tear him up.My main issue with Grisham's novels is how many words he takes to tell the story.
The beginning was a little slow for me, and the story really picked up towards the end of the second half when you realize that Malcolm/Max has ulterior motives.The Racketeer intoduces us to Malcolm Bannister, a convicted felon, spending a 10 year sentence in a low security prison for "helping" a known criminal purchase a property illegally.
He barters a deal with the Feds for his freedom, in exchange for the name of the murderer of the judge Raymond Fawcett.Creative planning, and well researched writing leads me to want to add more Grisham to my list :)
