https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2534865.Land_Below_the_Wind

A very enjoyable book written by an adventurous and good-natured soul about her life in a remote location.
Great writer, great topic, loved the book. Not a traditional narrative arc: various stories from her life covering her 4 years in Borneo as the American wife of an English ex pat. Great insights into the three different cultures. I particularly liked the stories she told from other people's point of views: the village elder's story of what happened when white men first came to the village, things like that. Interesting historically too, because it is written so long ago (approx. mid 1930s).
Below the Wind is a very readable and positive memoir.
Keith describes her introduction to life as the wife of the British Conservator of Forests and Director of Agriculture in North Borneo (now Sabah) in the 1930s, when that country was a British Protectorate.
The memoir provides descriptions of the local residents, the tropical surroundings, the native flora and fauna, and the expatriate social structure and etiquette of bureaucrats and their spouses.
In the last chapter Keith takes home leave in Canada and the United States and then prepares to return to Borneo.
Knowing now what's to come makes reading her next book Three Came Home even more urgent.
This is an extraordinary book. You can't find it as en eBook but worth purchasing the paperback if you're interested in Sabah/Malaysian Borneo or have a trip planned. I stumbled upon it at a mountain hostel while already in Sabah and read Agnes' memoir as I visited each place in her manuscript. Incredible to see the difference between the Borneo she experienced as a new settler and what it's become today. Fantastic and clever writing style, and although it was written in the '30s, it still resonated with me today. I want to read more of her work.
My friend who gave me this book didn't enjoy it, so perhaps the reason I did is that I have spent so much time myself in Borneo.
It's the true story of an American wife of a British colonialist who served in northern Borneo (probably what is now Sarawak) right before WWII.
She appreciates life there, as did I, and recounts experiences in the forest and with the local people that resonated with my own experience.
Even though it was published in 1939, it conveyed many elements of life there that hadn't changed greatly by 1979 when I first went there.
Intrepid doesn't even come close to describing Agnes Newton Keith's attitude to living in and exploring Borneo. Yes she is part of a colonial structure that is only able to thrive and survive literally on the backs of Borneo natives. She has however an enlightened attitude for her times which combined with a natural talent for writing makes this travelogue/memoir a pleasure to read. The Keith's ended up in a Japanese prison camp shortly after their first sojourn in Borneo. Times they were a changing!
Keith writes with such love of her adopted country. It is especially poignant to read this after having read Three Came Home (about being held prisoner of war during WWII) previously. I feel the loss even more. And even more the chance that one of her captors had read Land Below the Wind, liked it, and was disposed to be not so harsh with her.
I picked this up after visiting Agnes Keith's past residence in Borneo. It is a light hearted account of her experience of Sabah and I enjoyed reading about what it was like then and being able to compare it to our experiences and the heritage there today.
An interesting and well-written account by Agnes Newton Keith of the four years she spent on the island of Borneo in the 1930s when her husband was stationed at Sandakan.
In descriptive and engaging style, Keith shares with the reader, with wry humor, how she learned to live, accept and accommodate for interesting differences in culture and the native way of life.
With flexibility and understanding she adjusted her approach to live in harmony and accept local practices and norms, particularly with the various native help and their domestic squabbles and intrigue.
Definitely well-worth the read for the writing as well as learning about the island of Borneo.
I was curious about this book because the author, Agnes Keith, wrote Three Came Home, one of my favorite books, about her experience in a Japanese POW camp.
Her captors had been impressed by this book, her first.This is the story of Agnes's early years of marriage to Harry Keith, a British man who was forestry minister of Borneo.
What I found remarkable about this story is Agnes's lack of colonial superiority towards the native Borneo people.
Agnes has already heard of the atrocities committed by the Japanese while invading and occupying China; the emotional tension during the dinner is portrayed with skill.I definitely recommend getting this book on interlibrary loan.
Agnes Keith, a Californian, found herself married to an Englishman who was appointed as Agriculture Minister of a British holding called British East Borneo, now the state of Sabah in Malaysia on the island of Borneo.
This book is a rare and thorough accounting of the small British society that ruled that remote outpost and of the amazing peoples and flora that inhabited it.
It is priceless glimpse into a world as remote as any and at the same time as civilized as only the English can require.
A rare and delightful spy hole through time.
This book was like a fine wine - to be savored not gulped.
I enjoyed reading a chapter or two every evening.
It was written with remarkable sensitivity towards Borneo's natives, especially for its time during Colonialism.
(Borneo is now split between Brunei, Malaysia and Indonesia but at the time was a protectorate of a company.
Yes, that's like Pepsi owning Texas.) I learned a lot about its indigenous cultures and peoples.
But most amazing was the authors stories of her treks through the jungle.
She was an amazing woman to persevere through all sorts of bedlam and privation, not to mention the LEECHES!
A book out of nowhere thanks to my younger sister who has a knack for finding the rare, but great read.A young American woman in the 30s who leaves with her British husband for Borneo. She thrives and loves the land and the people for a five year run, back when the British empire was still the force to be reckoned with. Along with its stuffiness, classism, etc.Keith deals with it all in a humorous way, writing with rich detail of life in a British trading company town in an exotic setting.
Ok i took forever to finish this! Not because it was boring but when i read, i can't help reading a book at the pace i imagine the writer is at- i assume Agnes Keith is a pretty poised person.The narration of her experience is really relatable!
I was given this by a friend prior to moving to Borneo. It is a wonderfully funny, genuinely evocative book that tells so much truth about the expatriate experience.
Loved this book!
a memorable book
Agnes has such a charming voice. A delightful read, if at times a little too light hearted.
Absolutely brilliant and absorbing writing. Essential reading for anyone who has lived in or visited this part of the world.
makes me grin at her descriptions of people and what she see's/does.
