https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682745.The_Basketball_Diaries
And it was in this land that Carrol wrote THE BASKETBALL DIARIES.
As a white kid, Carrol is an unusual basketball standout in New York City.
Besides the decline of his basketball prowess, Carrol notes, often in a sideway glance, what is happening in his beloved New York.
Sadly, during this time, Carrol was fighting this war; he just didn’t know that his battles came in the form of H and basketball and family.
Did he know that his life was only going to get darker and decide that the reader was no longer invited on his journey?
It's amazing to know Jim Carroll wrote this book when he was age 13-16, not only due to subject matter but for the undeniable talent that seeps through every page.
With Manhattan as his playground and local junkies, thieves and hooligans as his playmates, Carroll spirals from mild delinquent to full blown addict believing (as all addicts first do) that where others fail, he has it all under control.Those expecting this to be like the movie beware.
Hollywood takes a bunch of his stories, glosses them up and presents them to you nicely gift wrapped.
Carroll himself does no such thing.
Maybe The Basketball Diaries is one of those titles that when first published (1978) was considered cautionary and groundbreaking but needs too much license and contextualization in 2011.
For example, these passages are supposedly Carroll's authentic (although edited) teenage diary transcripts.
Page after page of heroin-chasing gets boring.
I'm not sure of the point, even if the passages read quickly and Carroll's writing, even as a high school kid, is smooth and natural.Maybe I'm jealous because, if this book is accurate, Jim Carroll had more sex by age sixteen than I did in my teenage years X 20.
She had a long talk with me and asked me if I was addicted to the stuff.
I told her it's heroin you get addicted to, not grass, and I think I finally convinced her.
In fact, I think she got a little angry about it.Jim Carroll's early teens growing up in nineteen-sixties' Manhattan were W-A-Y different from mine spent in suburbia a decade later.
While I was reading crappy movie-tie-in novels and wondering why boys didn't like me, he was hustling gay sailors, and robbing stores and elderly women, all while nursing a heroin habit.
I know that teens are universally self-absorbed, but Carroll takes the cake.
William Burroughs and Irvine Welsh wrote my favorite books about junk addiction.
I love "Naked Lunch" and I love "Trainspotting".I don't think of Jim Carroll when I consider those two writers.
Because I don't think of Jim Carroll as a writer.I don't think of "The Basketball Diaries" when I consider those two novels.
Because "The Basketball Diaries" isn't fiction.Jim Carroll was a prodigy diarist and "The Basketball Diaries" is a personal journal of his addiction.
But the true spiritual film adaption of this book for me is "Kids".
Because "Kids" is not about heroin at all.
You totally don't believe in Hep C when you're a kid, and maybe you do believe in dying from an overdose, but more, again, for its ability to immortalize you and make your band cool forever, not as a literal thing.I will add as a post-script that "People Who Died" is one of my all-time favorite running songs, and arguably one of the best of ALL songs.
I remember being surprised and a bit guiltily disappointed as a kid when I found out that Carroll was still alive and living in New York.
One example of the film being better than the book.
In my intensity to read anything regarding the streets of New York City, I picked up this book at Alias East in Atwater Village.
I have known this book for ages, but for whatever reason I had no interest in reading it.
To me it reads like a young adult novel, or memoir.
I would give this book out to teenagers, who are interested in reading about that subject matter.
He grew up at a young age, and yet, the book is still innocent to me.
This book was insightful, in that it showed us the life of a very troubled kid in 1960's NYC. But what value is that, in that it was mostly his daily activities without any insight into why he did it? There was no growth, no reflection. No beginning, no end. This was a snapshot, not a reflection.
I strongly recommend for those who don’t regularly read.
2,5/5. I had loved so much the movie adaptation with DiCaprio when I was young that I though this would be a great read. Unfortunately, I find it long, repetitive, and just not deep enough. It contains scene of drugs uses and basketball games and just not enough introspection has I would have like. Not what I was expecting and I was left on my appetite here...
He got himself hooked on heroin and other drugs, skipped school (where he was lucky enough to be on scholarship), frequently committed robbery, burglary, armed robbery and burglary, trespassing, assault, and ended up arrested a few times and in jail at Rikers.
If Carroll had been a minority or woman, his actions and character would have been condemned, not celebrated.
This diary gives insight into the self-serving life of a voluntary addict with authority issues, and while may have been considered groundbreaking, is an affront to people not given the opportunities Carroll had.
The positive reviews for this book are an allegory of passing members of the basketball team in school just because they showed up to class.
I was so young when I first read this, I didn't know that the word "lame" was just the normal word "lame", like kids used. I thought it was a fabric or something. I wasn't used to seeing how people actually talked, printed in a BOOK.
Some bold lines. Visceral and vivid, striking. Perhaps I should have read this when I was a bit younger, but I still enjoyed it now. Strong writing.
Carroll’s diary chronicles his teenage years of drug addiction in New York City during the mid-1960s.
For better or worse – most assuredly worse – Carroll has the guts to expose his ugly self to the reader and holds no punches because he is a man who has accepted his weak and dark self.
He reveals a sort of underbelly, showing the reader that drug usage wasn’t just for the college-aged Hippie set, but could reach into jacket and tie wearing, teenage Catholic boys.If this had been a smoothed out reflection of his past, the book would have failed miserably.
The book starts out amazing, with Carroll writing in his diary as a sharp but un-selfconcious 13 year old willing to share his own mundane and amazing stories.
As the book progresses, though, he becomes more aware of himself as a writer and an "artist" and picks up some obnoxious 60s hipsterisms ( "fuck you and your war pig dreams, dig?").
On one level its just another junkie memoir, except its told in the moment, which is both amazing and annoying in its way.
He actually becomes a stick up artist holding knifes to little old ladies but is too far gone to see anything wrong with this.
Even though this sounds dismissive, I don't want to give ol' Jim too much of a hard time because there are moments of beauty too and it is understandable Carroll became a poet and sought the beautiful in the murk for the rest of his troubled life.
And say what you will about the exaggerations, fabrications, and outright idiocy of the 12-15 year old mind, in that 3 year span good ol' Jim lived more of a life than most can wring out of 75.
If I had to chose one book as my favorite of all time, it would be The Basketball Diaries. I've basically lost track of the number of times I have reread it.The fact that the book is, in fact, Carroll's diary makes it so much more real. His experiences aren't censored and modified. Instead, you are given an intimate and raw look into a portion of Carroll's teenage years and his struggles with substance abuse, as well as just growing up, in 1960's New York City.
I actually read with Jim in 1996 or so. It was at Berbati's in Portland and he was very shaky and nervous. As he kept reading though, he seemed to really take off and his words soared to wonderful heights. But I may be imagining that because I was high on acid that night. Ironic, since I think Jim was actually clean.
The book where I felt transported to a place so different than the world I knew. Still one of my favorite books.And now for some riffage at TNBBC's The Next Best Book Blog - http://thenextbestbookblog.blogspot.c...
life-changing if you are a writer. a junkie. or potentially one or the other.
Marriage-a-wanna
It was my understanding that this is Carroll's actual diary from his time as a pre-teen and teen in NYC.
If this is how Mr. Carroll actually wrote when he was 13-15, then he may have something wrong with him.If this is the result of over-editing by someone else, or if Mr. Carroll went back and wrote the book as an adult, then it would make more sense - but not excuse the poor quality of the writing.
It was Twilight/50 Shades bad.Conversely, if the voicing of those books appeals to you (and that is perfectly fine, you are in the majority), then you will probably enjoy this book.
It was too choppy for me since it was like a diary and it just didn’t have a smooth story and kept jumping around from place to place.
Ya I’m a teen and I’m a fan of basketball but I don’t play it like him and I don’t do all of the crazy and hectic stuff he did and I don’t do heroin all the time and I just haven’t had the same experiences, so I wasn’t as intrigued.
But I can see how others would like the story of a rebellious teen and I wouldn’t tell anybody to not read this book or try it out, it just wasn’t for me.

A good read for anyone who insists that crime-afflicted, tribal, racist, sexist, gay-bashing old New York was somehow superior to contemporary New York. This is the work of a third-rate Burroughs with the kind of jock-bragging that will appeal to fratboy stoners who've graduated from Hunter S. Thompson and are looking for something a bit more edgy. Diary of a Cromag covers the same turf a decade later with a more sympathetic protagonist.
A perfect "street find" book and an exceptional re-read many years later. Given the current declawed condition that NYC finds itself in this book pulses with the long lost true grit that epitomized the city seen through the wild drug-addled eyes of youth.
Wild and at times too incredible to believe... A sad reflection of the everywhere-implied Western adage that great suffering makes great art. Three stars for this book’s necessary privileging of content over style (it is a “journal,” after all).
I just kept wondering where this kids parents were.
"The Dick Joke Diaries."
