https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815985.Hippos_Go_Berserk_
The first hippo, I will refer to him as the host hippo, is almost always pictured along with the new hippos!
So when there are 3 hippos at the door, the host hippo is there to greet them -- thus there are actually 4 hippos portrayed!
The host hippo is almost always pictured and throws off the hippo count on each page.
But the gripping story with its symmetric addition and subtraction of hippos does not make up for the deeply flawed and clumsy literal portrayal of the actual number of hippos going berserk.
This book is brilliantly constructed. And it uses the word "berserk." What more can you ask for? I've read it to my kiddo approximately 6387 times, and will probably read it at least that many more, and I will not mind at all.
Moral of the story: do not invite hippos to your party because they will fuck shit up, yo. Definitely my favorite Boynton board book (although Oh My, Oh My, Oh Dinosaur is a close second). A perennial shower gift favorite (pair with the Owen and Mzee board book for a delightful hippo-themed set.)
This is a counting book.
This was such a favorite that we kept a copy around long after pages were torn & a cover lost.
I happened to think of it & ordered a copy.
My baby, in her mid 20's, remembered it fondly & had to read it before I sent to one son.
His brother & his wife are now expecting, so the book was sent to them.
Again, I was told how great this book was & what fond memories it held.I don't think it gets any better than that.
First read to Ivy 01/01/2017An unusual, hilarious counting book including many hippos. Love it!
I love Boynton's books, and I was happy to find this one the other day in a used bookstore. I don't think I've ever seen it, and I have no idea how I managed to miss it while collecting them all to read to my son. Adorable counting book featuring 45 hippos and one monster.
Implausible.
One, I have a soft spot for hippos. Two, it's a counting book, so naturally- Three it's educational AND fun (four). See what I did there? Haha, I know, I only find myself funny, lol. Will buy.
I Love this book. It’s a favorite for its simple rhyming pattern, fun pictures, and entertaining story.
Fun little counting book.
Last night I had an interesting experience -- my cat requested this book as a bed time story.
I found that most interesting because I had never read a story to either of them before.
So I read the story to her and Errol in my best library-story-time-holding-up-the-book-to-show-the-pictures style and they sat attentively at my feet for the entire thing.
I was worried about the whole "go berserk" aspect, because they have a tendency to do that at bed time, but the book did not give them any inspirations towards naughtiness.Tonight will be Errol's turn to pick the book.
Sandra Boynton combines her usual rhyme and rhythm with my favorite subjects: math!
My one gripe is that in the second half of the book,  Sandra Boynton breaks the sentences down on the page in a way that it doesn't obviously rhyme.
For example: "Nine hippos and a beast joineight hippos riding east, while..."I would think it makes more sense to read it as:"Nine hippos and a beastjoin eight hippos riding east,"and then just put the word while on the next page since it's part of another clause.
It doesn't stop this from being one of my new favorite bedtime stories.
You would ask for it well before you could talk by getting from the shelves and bringing it to me to read to you.
I have no idea how many times I read it to you, but I think we drove everyone around us a little batty (or rather, berserk?).
As a bonus, you were teething at the time, so in the years to come when you go back and look at your book and wonder why there is an honest-to-goodness bite out of the cover of this book, well...
While I appreciate the counting up and also the counting down of hippos, the premise promised by the title never comes to fruition. In the book's most important two page spread, "all the hippos" supposedly "go berserk." It is quite clear, however, that, at most, four to six of the 44 present hippos go berserk, while the majority calmly stand around. The hippos responsible for serving hors d'oeuvres even continue to do so in a notably low-key, non-berserk manner. Sincerely, what's happening here? This book has a 4+ rating?
Fantastic counting book for the little ones. Not only do we count the hippos as they come to the party--whether to work or play but we also get to count the hippos as they leave the next morning. I love the drawings. What makes this outstanding is the counting upwards then counting backwards Wonderfully fun!
Lyrical and fun. Good for learning numbers.
How can this not receive a 5 star rating? This is a lot of fun to read. I like to read this story with syncopated rhythm in my best DJ voice, much to my 3 year-old's chagrin and disdain.
One of the best baby books I've read (they're usually completely inane). Plus you and your kid get a little math along with your funny kid "poetry."
Most festive counting book ever.
It's not the best counting book or the most fun but it is enjoyable from the very start.Pictures are cute, font is easy to read and the rhyme is fast and fun.This is a great bedtime book.
When you have time, you count all the hippos and point out what they are doing but when it's past bedtime already you can just focus on reading and rhyming and flip through it in two minutes and then it's off to bed :)Rereading value is there as well.
First you go with the pictures, then you learn to count the hippos, then you learn the numbers and then the words.
I don't care that the hippos go berserk; in fact, we can just skip over that page to get to the best part - MORE NUMBERS!
This book is so full of numbers.
We go up from 1 to 9 and then ALL the hippos and then back down again, without any of those weird numbers that have two numerals next to each other.
Bonus, one hippo is carrying a balloon.
I like to find the numerals on the page when you say them!
It's good for turning the pages on my own.
But I'm sad when one hippo misses the others.
This is a fun book with counting and hippos (and math.)The art is fine.I like the rhyming scheme and the change in cadence. It's fun to read aloud.My only problem is: 7 hippos heading west leave 6 hippos in distress. When do the 6 hippos in distress leave? There's a little bit of a lack of resolution here. (And yes, I'm definitely overthinking it, lol.)
This book has SUCH good rhythm. Spoiler (but not really): you count hippos and then count down as they leave. But the counting is slow and methodical while the count down is rapid. It’s honestly a joy to read.
What can I say - like so many, I love Sandra Boynton books! Though I'll admit, this one is actually a little bit sad! Still contains the fantastically fun rhymes that Boynton is known for, while also being educational - this one focused largely on counting.
I love, love, love this book. This could be because I love hippos or merely because I adore the idea that one hippo all alone calls two hippos on the phone...and then precedes to invite 47 more. :) Excellent rhyme and rhythm to the book.
I bought this for my great-nieces's birthday, but had to read through it first...This is a lovely counting story full of Sandra Boynton's wonderful hippos. The illustrations are lovely and very colourful. I hope my great-niece enjoys it - I certainly did!
One of my favorites... not necessarily Aaron's
Happens to us after all parties!
I might love this book more than my daughter does.
I am giving it four stars. I started changing my mind after reading reviews but stuck with original rating.
