https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163816.At_Risk
While I recognize that it is no longer the "current events" novel it was originally conceived and written as, I feel that this book serves a very different purpose now--as a reminder of the very real concerns and struggles that people faced during that time when almost nothing was known about AIDS, and thereby everything was feared.
I think that we might forget, looking back from a vantage point of twenty years later, that in the early days of AIDS, people were in fact irrationally frightened.
The sad truth is reflected in the book--some people's children were in fact infected.
This is one of my favourite books of all time.
I don't say that lightly as my other favourite books of all time are Lord of the Flies, Pride and Prejudice and Little Women.
When I found this book in a bookshop back in the early 1990s I had never heard of its author Alice Hoffman before.
That is a sublime piece of writing.Her little brother is a wonder and I adore their relationship.If you have never heard of Alice Hoffman I urge you to buy this book and then every other book she has ever written.
I read this book as a sophmore in HS and was rivited by the story. It has stuck with me all these years. An amazing yet difficult to read book, given the subject matter. I might try to track down a copy and re-read it, given how the times have changed.I just re-read it, and wow. Even better than I remembered. Hoffman's writing is beautiful, aching and right on track. I had forgotten some of the great characters, and even how the book ended. I'm glad I took the time to look it over again.
This book has left me with a lump in my throat. I cared about this family through each page, and I wish an epilogue was included because I want to know more....
I'm pretty much appalled by people who give this book a low grade because it is "too sad." It's heart wrenching for sure, but not melodramatic or over the top.
And this book is not dated in the slightest.
Sure, it's about AIDS ...
What the book also deals with is prejudice and love, and how fear of loss can cause us to ignore logic and what we know is right.
And that type of action--which happens as much now as it ever has--is as heartbreaking as anything else in this wonderful book.
At Risk was written at a time when little was understood about the HIV virus, and before there were effective treatments to slow the escalation of this terrible disease.
But more than just a novel about AIDS and death, At Risk is the story of a beautiful little girl whose life was cut short and the loved ones who would keep her alive in their hearts.
It made me smile and broke my heart, all at the same time.
Alice Hoffman's writing is beautiful and haunting and her characters so real that you feel their loss as your own
I did not connect to this book characterwise like I did Faithful because there were too many basically flat characters who had been partially fleshed out, and I was hemming and hawng about giving it 3.5 stars on my blog; which would have meant I would not be reviewing it there.These side character's stories could have easily been given in the narratives of essential characters.
I am scratching my head at this because since when are books about periods of history not read as historical fiction, no matter how recent that history might be?There will be a substantial semi-spoilery review of this title on my blog because I connected with the story on a gut level.
although the message of this book is so important, the characters were so unlike hoffman's.
they were flat and boring- i just didn't connect with them.
the lack of magical realism was also a disappointment, as that is what usually draws me to her books.
aids used to be such a taboo subject, so i loved that she portrayed the hysteria that ensued at amanda's school once they found she had it.
for this sole reason, i think this book deserves 3 stars.
recently, i've been disappointed in hoffman's books.
i'd hate to think it's the latter, but i may wait to try another.
The 1980s. The horror of the AIDS epidemic and the tragedy of the fear and isolation that accompanied it leap from the pages of Alice Hoffman’s novel. That an eleven year girl should contract the disease from a blood transfusion is unthinkable, but it happened. Hoffman, in her clean, direct style captures the drama of one family and one community.
Here is what this book was about from the back of the book:“In this “memorable…striking” (Village Voice) novel, New York Times bestselling author Alice Hoffman presents the story of an American family shattered by tragedy.
Her strength was amazing as she faced this deadly disease with courage and a determination to carry on as though everything for her was normal.There were also times that I struggled with the way the people in this Massachusetts town dealt with Amanda and her family.
Book Overveiw from Publishers Weekly:The Farrells are a middle-class family living in a small New England town.
Ivan Farrell is an astronomer, wife Polly a photographer, eight-year-old Charlie a budding biologist and 11-year-old Amanda a talented gymnast.
Hoffman has few rivals in depicting domestic scenes: the bickering between siblings, the tension between spouses, and withal, the humor and love that holds families together.My Thoughts:For such a sad subject, Ms. Hoffman handles it with lovely writing.
The characters are portrayed in a realistic manner and my heart ached for each of the Farrell family as their lives changed due to Amanda’s diagnosis.
Of her books that I've read so far, I'd say I really liked about half of them, and of the others, I've had one or two that I haven't even wanted to finish, and others that were just ok.
The one character who I kind of liked best was the one who seemed most typical of an Alice Hoffman book.
It was fairly predictable, but still, as written, was the best part of the book for me.Will I read any more Alice Hoffman books?
Those few books of hers I really liked still give me hope for more like them.
This was one of Hoffman's earlier novels.
It was interesting but frustrating to read about one family's experience of AIDS from the perspective of 1988, when we still knew so little and stigmas and stereotypes were rampant.
I also wish Hoffman had done a better job of showing the nuance and the depth of the relationship between Amanda and Charlie, and hadn't left Polly and Ed's situation outstanding.
But, I've been thinking about the novel quite a lot since finishing it, and that to me is a mark of its being well worth reading.
I truly enjoy Hoffman's books and have not been disappointed yet.
Tis was a very interesting read as I remember the time it was written and how incredibly frightening AIDS was.
I recall the school assemblies with AIDS victims speaking and afterwards offering to shake hands - if you were brave enough, even after just having spent an hour learning the facts as we knew them then.
The characters in this book were very real - they were flawed and hopeful and tangible.
A good read about a time when panic was all encompassing about this mysterious illness.
A heart wrenching story about AIDS in the late 1980's/early 90's.
It's all the more poignant as it deals with a child.
It's so sad to remember how people were treated back then, but it's so nice that now things are so much better - treatment, education, etc.
Although I'm sure the prejudice that goes along with the disease still exists.
My only criticism is that Charlie, the brother, whose character I really liked, seemed much older than 8.
I pictured him more along the 10-11 year range, but maybe that's just the difference in what kids are allowed to do on their own now vs.
In some ways this feels dated, but in others it takes me very vividly back to the paranoia and fear of the late 80s and early 90s. The strength is in the people and their very individual reactions: the way they can draw together or pull themselves apart, the sacrifices that are made, and the friendships that are changed.(view spoiler)[It's not depressingly sad, nor does it dwell on all the things Amanda can't, or won't, do, instead just touching on them briefly. And I think it's more powerful for that. (hide spoiler)]
I stated that I only give 5 stars to classics and future classics.
This book is not a happy book.
It wasn't intended to be.
Written in 1988, it is the story of a family dealing with their child who contracts AIDS.
Not only does it reveal a lot about family dynamics, but it also reveals a lot about the stigma of this disease, particularly in the school and the town.
It was written before all the breakthroughs in AIDS research and treatment.
It isn't the type of book that one can speed read.
It won't let you.
Needless to say, I'm a huge fan of Alice Hoffman. I like her style, especially the way she eases you into the quicksand before you are aware. This book, however, fell short of my expectations. It went into the kitchen, a very hot and volatile cooking environment, opened up all the cabinets, but never really pulled anything out. The fire was blazing, but nothing ever cooked. In the end, I was left on a pond in the woods looking for big turtles.
Holy cow -- a real reminder of how great Hoffman truly is. This one wouldn't let go and rest easy on the chairside table -- demanded to be finished. Loved the characters!
Ok, its novel about a 11 year old girl with AIDS so be prepared to have your heart wrenched out of your chest.
I like the way this book is written but it is another sad one. It's about a young girl living with AIDS and the effect it has on her family and the whole community. Definitely worth reading.
Amanda is a talented gymnast and she becomes ill.
The devastating news from their doctor is that she has AIDS.
Almost everyone in town and at her school is afraid they will get it.
Some move their children to private schools.
They don't understand that you can only get it by using needles that someone with AIDS has used or through sex with someone who has the virus.
Logic is a human assumption, twisted to fit any shape a man wants.
Is it any more logical for a child to die than for a bug to walk on water?"It's beautifully written, as all of Alice Hoffman's books are.
When the Farrell’s 11 year old daughter, Amanda, is diagnosed with AIDS (from a blood tranfusion), thier middle-class world starts coming apart.
Amanda’s father strikes up an unexpected friendship with an counselor for the AIDS hot line only to learn that this you man is also dying of AIDS.
Amanda’s 8 year-old brother is overlooked by his parents and rejected by his fiends and classmates.
And Amanda is bravely dying at a much too young age.Hoffman does a good job with developing the pervasive estrangement that overtakes the Farrells at a time when they most need support.
This book might feel dated, as it was published in 1988 at the height of the AIDS epidemic in the US.
The story concerns 11 year old Amanda, an aspiring gymnast, who contracts AIDS from a blood transfusion.
In 1988, there were many myths and misconceptions about AIDS Hoffman addresses the small town's response to Amanda's diagnosis, the fear of contagion, removing themselves from her presence, removing their children from her school.
The book examines themes of death and sadness, but is never maudlin even though we know the outcome for young Amanda.
Set in the 80's during the early wave of the AIDS epidemic, the story of Amanda very likely played out in the lives of more American children than we care to think about.
I gave the book four stars because I found the brief romantic interlude between the mother and doctor unnecessary and a little disturbing, and also because I wanted more closure for the story.
It would be interesting to see the lives of Amanda's family in the years following her death, particularly Charlie who saw the whole thing happen through the eyes of a child.
Truly a gut wrenching book.
My only complaint is there was one teeny addition to a moving scene that I felt didn't need to happen and cheapened the book some.
I loved the comfort of the scene, but not that one additional step.
I would have loved it to be left alone instead.
We got the image and the pain and the need for companionship through other avenues.
For me, this book made me have to keep reminding myself that I take my life for granted and that my children are safely asleep in bed, healthy and strong, but that can change in an instant.
Published in 1988, "At Risk" takes place in the days before cellphones, in the days of pagers and pay phones, in the days when AIDS was new and terrifying and a certain death sentence.
Amanda is 11 years old, a talented gymnast with dreams of an Olympic career.
She's also sick, the result of a tainted blood transfusion in the days before blood was tested.While the story is dated in many ways, its description of people afraid of the unknown and the ways in which they isolate those who are different from them rings true.We know there is no hope.
We know what will happen to Amanda.
Such a sad story about a sixth grade girl who gets AIDS from a blood transfusion. The book was written in 1988 and would have been a real "hot topic" in its day. In 1988, I probably would have sided with all the scared parents at the girl's school and not wanted her to be with my child. AIDS was just so scary and not fully understood. Today, however, I don't think it is as scary and today, I would side with the child. Wow! In many ways Alice Hoffman was ahead of her time when she wrote this book.
The setting of the book keeps reminding you that this takes place at a really difficult and confusing time. Several parts had me tearing up, reminding me of how devastating this disease was. I can imagine this book might have seemed controversial at the time, but everything about AIDS was. I'm glad I didn't read this sooner, it would have been another book about this disease that made me angry. It still serves as a reminder.
Without a doubt, the saddest, most depressing book I have ever read. That, in the past, people were cruel and uninformed about AIDS, I get it! That there was no cure. I get it!Stupid me, I have this attitude that if I start a book, I must finish it. So for about a week, (I only read in the evenings) I lived this book. I was depressed for days. This is not a "cry for cathartic purposes, like watching Terms of Endearment, it is no crying, just depressing. I would not recommend it.
