https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156809.Surprise_Island
It’s probably just someone’s cousin that dropped out of college or something equally boring with zero reason for being a secret.Grandfather is almost concerned about the hobo living with his grandchildren, but the lure of a kid-free summer filled with hookers and blow wipes any objections from his mind.The group goes back to the mainland because Benny is all in a froth to ‘buy things.’ I like to think of him running down the aisles of the Pottery Barn, blindly grasping anything off the shelf to satiate his consumerist frenzy.
Read so many of this series eons ago ... never got through most of 'em, though!
The first Boxcar Children book was classic and precious.
My children love this sequel and the writing is good, but the plot / structure is disturbingly insane.
Really, not that cuddly madcap Nesbit/Lewis kind of insane that you can get away with in a children's book.Why does the grandfather leave them alone on an island with a strange man?
Every time that mystery Joe takes little Violet down to the shack for a private violin lesson I freak out.
I didn't need to read that before bed time, and I'm 37 years old.
This is an enjoyable enough children's story where four siblings are permitted to spend their summer holidays living in an old barn on an island, supervised - from afar - by an old fisherman and a young handy man with a mysterious past. Themes apparent in the novel's predecessor,  The Boxcar Children  - the practicality and (relative) independence of the children, the sexual division of labour and the extent to which the kids co-operate on various tasks (which I remarked upon in my review of tha
In this case, I was pleased to learn a new word derived from eighteenth-century Narragansett - 'quahog' - which is a type of edible clam found along the east coast of North America.In conclusion, kids should enjoy reading this book because I'm sure many of them would love to emulate the independence experienced by the children in the novel as well as share their explorations and discoveries on the island, and also because of the mystery surrounding the handy man.
I guess this book was written for children who had just come out of rationing during WWII and parents who lived through the Great Depression so it makes sense in a way but also THESE KIDS ARE FILTHY RICH WHY ARE THEY EATING LIKE THIS??
Another time they literally just eat peas.
I guess she did wait like fifteen years between books so that kind of explains it but still, come on.
I decided to read one of the Boxcar Children books after reminiscing about them with a colleague. Turns out, they are pretty strange from an adult perpective. When I was a kid, I thought it would be great to be as self-sufficient as these kids. As an adult, I'm thinking, "What, you let your grandkids live on an island for the summer with nobody but some stranger who lost his memory?!" But still, they're good books. It was fun to take a trip down memory lane with this group of resourceful youngins'.
Holy racism Batman. My nostalgic journey with this series has come to an ABRUPT end. Excuse me. I'll just stick with Babysitter's Club.
I picked up this arc at an ALA conference.
I'm not sure I've read them before, just paged through them some.
It is a pleasant book but nothing all that memorable.
The mystery seemed a bit heavy handed: LOOK THERE IS A MYSTERY ABOUT THIS GUY!
but it was pleasant.
I did notice that no one ever said why the guy disappeared to begin with, just that he wanted to be sure that he was well now.
I doubt I'll pick up any more of the series to read unless I come across another arc while tidying my books up.
Pleasant enough but forgettable.
These books are ridiculous. I know they’re for children and quite old but lol. Also, this one was a race to see if I could read the entire thing while my roommate was at target. I did it. Such short, easy reads. Their adventures are somewhat ridiculous but I wouldn’t mind going to Surprise Island for a week or so.
Read aloud to my four year old. Fun for everyone.
Read with an intermediate student. I used to love the Boxcar Children!
As an adult revisiting an old favorite, I still love the story of the characters fending for themselves on an island. However, I found the writing dated and less than enjoyable. It was very stilted.
(Another detail that dates this book is an illustration in which the kids are boating without life jackets!) But what I really liked - and for this reason I would give this book 4 1/2 stars if I could - is that Benny actually throws a tantrum in this book!
:P I also liked that this book finally made me understand why people always run out to buy bread and milk before a big storm.
It probably stems from the old days, depicted in these books, when bread and milk really were food staples.
As Jessie said, "We have to buy bread and bottles of milk.
Gertrude Chandler Warners novel Surprise Island realistic fiction book is exciting. I liked the book because they went to an island and explored and had to live in a barn at the island. The main characters were Henry, Benny, Jessie, and violet. Henry is the oldest then Jessie, then violet, then Benny. They had to figure out why the handy man knew so much about the island. You would like it if you like mystery books.
He allows the children to summer on it, and they spend their time exploring, making friends with their guardian Joe, and having an all-around fun time.It's always odd to read sequels to The Boxcar Children, because the first book sounded like it took place in the 1900s, while future ones jump into the 1950s.
I don't think it succeeds as well.The first book had the children on the run, and a gentle focus on how they lived life without a single parent.
The book feels more like a slow, slice of life book about four kids summering on a small island.Reading it, I'm struck by several things.
Their grandfather had a surprise for the children – the opportunity to spend the summer on a small island his father bought.
On the island the children lived in the barn while the grandfather returned to the mainland for the summer.
The children showed these characteristics by cooking and eating food from the garden and food they were able to catch.
I would then have the children write a story about going on an adventure to a private island.
Students should be able to read this book by themselves during the beginning of 3rd Grade.
Published seven years after the first Boxcar Children book, I found this one disappointing.
See Watch run!Another complaint is that instead of having adventures with school friends in town or on Grandad's estate, and perhaps enjoying a bit of that wealthy lifestyle promised at the end of the first book, the author chose to recycle the "independent living" theme, this time on a not-so-desert island.
Instead of a boxcar, this time it's a leaky old barn; instead of pine needle beds, they sleep on straw.
I see there are many more Boxcar books.
This second book in the popular series "The Boxcar Children" was written by Gertrude Chandler Warner and illustrated by Mary Gehr.
This book follows the summer of four children Jessie, Henry, Benny and Violet.
The children discover many artifacts but also grow together a lot more then more children would sitting at home during the summer.There were several illustrations spread throughout the book.
The illustrations would help young readers in realizing what exactly was going on and keep them entertained throughout the book.
I personal really enjoyed this book today and even in the past as a young reader.
But, Benny and his friend Mike are started fighting...I read 98 to 117 pages on Tuesday, October, 18.
I read 76 to 97 pages on Monday, October 17.
I like "Indian Point." Henry, Jessie, Violer and Benny found the the cave.
I like "The Museum." Henry, Jessie, Violet and Benny draw pictures.
I enjoyment "The Alden museum."I read 34 to 52 pages on Thursday, October 13.
I like "The Garden." Henry meets handy man Joe. He is clever.
The children grsd for the big garden is all their's.I read 7 to 33 pages on Tuesday, October 11.
Henry, Jessy, Violet and Benny leave the grandfather's house.
The story itself is adorable and brings back the children surviving on their own as Grandfather owns a small island where he has decided to let the children stay for the duration of the summer holidays.
They, of course, are excited as it brings back their boxcar days and they get right to fixing up the barn as a summer home and cooking, mending and fixing for themselves.
Kids today will get a big kick out of the children being able to live on an island all by themselves for the summer.
This is another great Boxcar children book continuing the story of them finally finding their grandpa and living in the boxcar in his backyard.
This is when the books start to become mystery's and the boxcar children are solving them all by themselves.
Eventually they start finding evidence that Indians used to live on the island, and it starts to become a mysterious Island as they uncover more clues and more mysteries.
I think it would be great to spend a year going through the boxcar children books, there is so much that you can get out of them and they are highly entertaining.
You are letting four kids under the age of 15 live on an island, basically unsupervised, for an entire summer?
Anyways, the writing is a little less stiff, and there are more plotlines that run through the entire book, rather than peter out after a chapter.
The island is a fun setting, but it does lose the tension of the first book because there's no suspense or survival aspect to this living situation.
They use their time on the island to learn and explore, and then they create a museum of everything they've learned, which is just the coolest.
I read this with PB, hoping for a nice, warm feeling of nostalgia.
Instead, I was hit with the reality of just how bad these books are.
But because I'm such an agreeable person (ha!), I've started reading another in the series to appease PB, and maybe I'll like that one more.
This book is about the boxcar children going to Alden Island.
Some surprises were their grandfather finding Joe, Mr. Browning finding Joe too, Benny finding out it was his birthday, and the Indian things they found on the island.
I liked it because it was cool how they find all those Indian things and how the children make a museum, and that they figure out that Joe is their cousin, that was pretty cool.
My favorite part was when Benny said, " You know some people have funny veins so when they hear something awfully good, suddenly they just drop down dead!" I learned that they use cages to catch lobsters and that lobsters are green and they are only red when they are cooked.
This series of books by Gertrude Chandler Warner are true masterpieces for children moving from learning to read to reading to learn.
More importantly Warner builds in a lot of word repetition as the series advances and carefully introduces new words a little at a time.
She integrates novel sentence constructions and idioms in a way that is clear for new readers as to the meaning.
Although the works are a bit dated, this series is just what I was looking for.
Warner was a genius storyteller and educator which is clear from the instructional design of these books.
I read this book to my six year old son and it took us many sittings to finish.
It sort of meandered like a stream, taking the story this way and that, but never really making any progress.
These children also don't act like any 6, 10, 12, and 14 year olds that I know.
Who leaves four children to their own devices on a private island for the summer with only a teenager and a crotchety old sea captain to occasionally check in on them?
Either way, it was an okay read, if a little too long.
This book is all about independents, exploring, and resourcefulness.
This book picks up with the four kids, Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny, living with their grandfather.
One day Grandfather announces a big surprise.
The kids enjoy exploring the island and creating adventure.
As with the first book they are very resourceful but this time in using the things they find on the island.This is an excellent book to use with grade school kids as a read aloud.
Once the kids get hooked into the story and fall in love with the adventuresome kids, they will want to read them all.
Another great "chapter" book in the Boxcar series.
This book focuses on the wonderful adventures that the little "family" of four children have on a small island owned by their Grandfather.
It's full of the same theme as the previous book, that hard work, family, and working together will be of benefit for all.
Again, because this series was written so long ago and in a "simpler" time, it is a "clean" and "safe" read without all the subplots and subthemes that so many of today's book have...
I used to read them all the time.
This book was great because there was a lot of suspense and you always had to keep reading because you wanted to know what was going on.
The four children in the story are orphans but go to live with their grandpa and spend the summer on an island where strange things keep happening.
There is also a strange man on the island who scares them and they want to figure out who he is.
These are definitely books I would encourage kids in upper elementary grades to read when starting chapter books.
Decent book but dated - it was written in 1949.
My kids were shocked at the thought of 4 children being allowed to live in a stable on an island for the summer with little adult supervision.
Sure it would be fun and maybe during the time this book was written it was possible, but today it would never be allowed.
Also, my modern mentality made my hackles raise at the thought of a strange man on the island who kept showing up to talk to the children.
We had to talk about how things are today verses when it was written while reading to my children.
