https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43758.The_Queen_of_the_Damned
Of all of the vampire chronicles this is by far my favorite.
If you have seen the movie and were not impressed.
The movie is nothing like the book in any way.
The book goes into detail and answers a lot questions.
Goes into detail of the family tree and tells you how Akasha and Enkil became to be.
I love every single part of this book and it really was a page turner for me.
All of these characters are so beautifully put together I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in reading about vampires.
As far as The Vampire Chronicles is concerned I think Ms. Rice has done a bit of both, and I lost interest after the fifth volume Memnoch the Devil.Most readers of The Vampire Chronicles agree that the first three books of the series are the best.
I particularly like the Talamasca, the secret society for investigation of the paranormal where Fox Mulder would feel right at home.Anne Rice’s prose always go down well with me, I particularly like her description of the elation and shame of vampire feeding:“When they drank the blood they felt ecstasy.
This was the book that pretty much killed my desire to read anything more by Rice.
Only 3 books into the Chronicles and I was already weary of her style.
As it was, the book was so dull that it took me ages to finish it.
I despised a great deal of the new characters and their stories, but as usual, I enjoyed the history (particularly Egypt) where certain stories took place.
And Louis fan that I am, I was disappointed to see so little of the character I had bonded with in the first book.Not a book I would care to ever read again.
The Queen of the Damned is the third book of the successful "Vampire Chronicles" saga by the author Anne Rice.
The Queen of Damned is a book that I recommend to all fans who have begun to discover the books of Anne Rice and for those who have not yet done so!
;D)Spanish version: La Reina de los condenados es el tercer libro de la exitosa saga "Cronicas Vampíricas" de Anne Rice.
Un libro que recomiendo a todos los fans que hayan empezado a descubrir los libros de Anne Rice y para los que aún no lo hayan hecho!
This was the best one of them all.
It fills in all the holes and makes for a fascinating read.
The only character who didn't seem to fit in with the story was the Baby character who killed her mother and father.
The only thing I could figure out was that she gave us Anne Rice's ideas of the afterlife.
That a vampire could be so ancient and complete he/she didn't need to kill anymore was cool.
The idea that an ancient making a new vampire made a "super" vampire was cool also.
En todo esto entra Lestat, su príncipe querido, que mostrando bastante hipocresía por parte de Akasha, si merece vivir, y no solo eso, lo hace su compañero, y otra de sus armas, volviendo a Lestat uno de los vampiros más fuertes que existen, pero a la vez mas inútil como personaje, prácticamente Lestat no hace nada en el libro, es superman con la mente de Bizarro, un tonto con poderes que van de lo asombroso a lo estúpido.
I kept waiting for it to get interesting but it never did. It got stupider and stupider until I thought my brains were leaking out. If I were on a desert island with nothing to read but this book, I would scratch out old 80's pop lyrics with a twig in the sand before trying to read this dreck again.
While I was lukewarm on Interview With the Vampire (though my reading of its sequels has deepened my appreciation of that dark little novel), I quite enjoyed The Vampire Lestat and was blown away by The Queen of the Damned.
Read and find out.This book features, on top of many exquisitely horrific moments, some superb character development.
I loved these characters, one and all, and can’t wait to read about them in future volumes.
Lestat and Louis’s relationship is also brought full circle in a heartbreaking callback scene to Interview With the Vampire.
The whole thing is told through a series of side-stories and flashbacks, with the actual conflict resolved in a handful of pages at the back end of the book, about two or three hundred after I started actually, verbally yelling at the thing to get to the point already.
Every character spends far too much time worrying over Lestat.
Every other character spends far, far too much time worrying over him, and each mewling phrase sticks out of the narrative like a staple in a quiche.
Prior to reading the Queen of the Damned I only knew a handful of things about it.
But mostly, being the metal junky that I am, I knew that the soundtrack was the bee’s knees featuring Korn, Static-X, Deftones, Disturbed, Lincoln Park and other awesome bands that rocked my world at the time the movie was coming out.
I actually never watched the movie- being the purist that I am- I wanted to read the book first.
As an audio book it was a little hard to follow and overwhelming at times.
I really liked this book and all the interwoven stories and characters.
I actually liked Akasha until she kept blabbing on and on about her 'plan' of killing all the men of the world.
She should have just went along with them, maybe she would have lived longer.
I liked Jesse a lot, her character was really interesting.
Kind of made me want Anne to write a full length Claudia diary.
Louis and Gabrielle being in this book was good also, I never get tired of those characters.
I could write a whole lot more, but yeah.READ THIS BOOK!!!
This book continues from the events of the Vampire Lestat, which gave an introduction to Akasha, the Queen of the Damned, and her back story in ancient Egypt.
This book takes the tale further and explains the supernatural origin of vampires as a species.
The book stepped away from Lestat's point of view in the Vampire Lestat, and takes us through the minds of various vampires as they tell the story of Akasha and the mystery of the redheaded twins.What a great story, I can't wait to continue with the rest of the books in this series.
5.0 stars. This is the book in which this phenomenal series reached its considerable peak. This is on my short list for best vampire novels. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!Nominee: Bram Stoker Award for Best Novel (1989)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Horror Novel (1989)
It’s like every new POV causes me to reconsider my thoughts and feelings about things.– This has got to be the most unique, complex, well thought-out explanation for vampirism, how it started, why it works the way it does, etc.
But now that Daniel is vampire, Armand seems to be treating him better at least.Oh, and let’s also not forget that Armand treated Lestat horribly in the past, but as soon as Akasha woke and started killing vampires but sparing the ones closest to Lestat, Armand wanted Lestat’s protection.But like I said, he’s entertaining.
To do this, he backs out and we get third person POV from some sideline characters - Baby Jinx, a young vampire girl who is on her way to Lestat's concert; Khayman, a thousands-year old vampire just awakened; Daniel, the young interviewer from Interview with the Vampire; and Jessie, the young niece of a mysterious woman, Maharet, who gets involved in this paranormal agency, the Talamasca.
In fact, I rather enjoyed myself at parts - when Lestat was narrating, for example, the new character, Baby Jinx, Lestat's exchange with Akasha over who should rule and the destruction of society as we know it, and the story of the red-haired twins.
this book has always been my all time favourite Anne rice out did herself with this one yes while it is a long read it is well worth it
I cannot even begin to describe the amount of redundancy and repetition there is in this book.Usually when we get a character, the author will describe a bit about them, give some insight into their background and let the rest develop as the story progresses.
In these books we get a character and before they do anything even slightly relevant we have to have their life history.
And Daniel – another character inserted with a painfully long backstory and history with Armand who, like Louis and Gabrielle and Armand and Jesse, ended up being nothing more than a spectator for the – and I use the term loosely – action.
The Legend of the Twins was actually my favorite story arc in Queen of the Damned, and the Twins are two of my favorite characters.
Infact, I'd say that this book is my favorite in the entire Vampire Chronicles.But the reason I take away a star is due to the abrupt ending.
This in itself is an entirely believable character.However, the very ending left me flat.
I wish that Ms. Rice had put more of Mekare in future books, perhaps learning about modern society and getting used to her new role as Queen.
The ending was far too abrupt and not well-thought out for a tale that was incredible.
We see through the veil all the way to ancient times, and we meet the representative of all ancient rulers in the person of Akasha, the so-called "Queen of the Damned." Akasha is cruel and self-serving; she strives always to find meaning in the world and despairs that there is none, so she takes it upon herself to become that meaning.
Fortunately, an old curse rises and she is killed, but the book left its mark.Does mankind deserve a chance to get it all right on its own, or would it indeed be better if a supernatural force of some kind (any kind) intervened to show us the way?
In this book you go on an adventure with the vampire Lestat, while he is lost in finding the meaning of immortality.
He finds a liking to rock music and from it creates the biggest rock band in history.
in the music he is open about being a vampire, this goes against all codes from being a vampire and angers all others.
This created a whole new meaning of Lestats life, and opens doors for the amazing history of it.The Author used such great detail in this book.
Much better then "Interview With the Vampire" This combined with "The Vampire Lestat" forms the best part of the Vampire Chronicles series and details the core mythos of Anne Rice’s vampires.
At least that's the literary version, in truth I suppose that Anne Rice hadn't made all of the world building decisions she needed to make yet and changed her mind on several points as well when she decided to take the vampires concept and run with it.
Oh how I love Lestat at the end of this book! He really is such a damnable creature. <3
I read it from breakfast until dinner time one Saturday when I had leave to get away with it.Jesse seems to be key in a lot of my favourite scenes in this book - we get this fantastic piece of insight into the mind of Claudia when Jesse finds her diary (the diary calls out for another novel entirely - only Claudia would have told the truth about what actually happened between those two bitter men who like to spite each other in their respective autobiographies).
It was my first experience with Anne Rice and I honestly wanted to jump on the bandwagon and read all of her works after this.It's really wonderful because, as it was my first experience with Rice, I was still able to follow it without reading the books that come before it in the series.
It really wasn't, I was able to handle every thing that happened and only felt sick when I was feeling what the characters were going through.
I connected with them that well, it was a very well written story and the characters were believable for the monsters that they were.
After listening to The Vampire Lestat, which I enjoyed well enough, I couldn't very well stop there.
So of course I picked up Queen of the Damned immediately after finishing that one.My god, there were a lot of characters in this novel.
Thank god for a good narrator of this audiobook (the wonderful Simon Vance).
The story itself was interesting, in that while it told Lestat's story (intertwined amongst a number of others), the vast majority of this particular novel was told from a variety of others' points of view, which helped keep it interesting.
[image error]I enjoyed this novel, but I'm not sure I'll delve into the rest of the Vampire Chronicles for a while yet.
Queen of the Damned picks up where The Vampire Lestat leaves off, introduces us to new and interesting vampires, and deals with the question of what happens when the Queen wakes.The Legend of the Twins is entrancing, and Rice unfolds the origin of vampires in a definitive manner.
More backstory is given on all the major players, but enough is left unsaid to provide fodder for many more Vampire Chronicles.
I read the Mayfair Witches books first, so it was really nice 'seeing' him again here.The only thing I really didn’t like was Stan Rice’s unintelligible poetry at the beginnings of some chapters.
Tercera parte de las Crónicas Vampíricas. Agotada totalmente la creatividad, se suman vampiros y vísceras hasta llenar un montón de páginas innecesarias. Superflua.
This involves a man-hating Egyptian Pharaoh, two sisters enslaved because they can talk to spirits (which in this novel is explicitly a completely useless ability), an ancient vampire rising to eat all her progeny so she can rule the world, a gathering of a vampire army to save the world, plus Lestat preventing the end of the world with being so hot the villain doesn't want to kill him.
I mean, that is the least weird part of this novel.Most of the book is a flashback to Ancient Egypt and develops the main villain by establishing she's not only vicious but also an idiot.
41 pages in and I can't force myself to read more. Hate this so much. If Lestat is referred to as "the brat prince" one more time, I'm going to go full Madea.
Haciendo que en muchos casos pienses en saltarte hojas para conseguir llegar a lo importante, pues, en muchas ocasiones, hay páginas enteras que no son realmente influyentes y que podrían eliminarse sin perder en ningún momento el significado de las vidas de los vampiros o de la historia al completo.En muchas ocasiones no es necesario conocer tanto de la escena, porque ya la hemos visto una y otra vez, llegándose a hacer pesado y muy cuesta arriba.
