https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42155.Something_Blue
After some very funny moments on book one:some huge changes due to meaningful love triangles:And the lost of a very important friendship:we get to Darcy's and Ethan's book and let me just say: OMG I LOVED THIS BOOK!
I had already fallen in love with the characters in it after watching the movie based on Something Borrowed, but now I can certainly say that Darcy and Ethan were the real deal.
Although that feeling was what made me love her so much at the end, as seeing her being such an ungrateful and spoiled person made possible for me to really appreciate the changes she went through.
I left Something Borrowed really hating that character.
I was completely resistant to the movement as I knew where this was going, and I simply did not want it to go there.
I'd still like to see a novel that returned the focus to Rachel, but I know why the author went the route she did.
By making Darcy the very hated but ultimate hero of the second book...Griffin takes a resistant reader and makes her unwilling to put the book down.I finished these two novels in 1.5 days...again, worth a good day at the beach/pool/on the couch.
I have to admit I hated Darcy in Something Borrowed and even did at the beginning of Something Blue.
What I liked in this book, is that Ethan, her childhood friend, finally pointed out to her what type of a person she really is.
Darcy decided to change herself for the better.
This book follows Darcy through her pregnancy and journey to be a better person.
I felt proud of her as the book ended to see what she had done with her life and how much she had changed for the better.
But, keep reading because the story is incredible and you will learn to root for Darcy Rhone whether you like it or not!
However, after everything that takes place in Something Borrowed, in addition to her relationship with Marcus, dismissal of Claire and her mother, she is forced to reevaluate her behavior when Ethan finally sets her straight.
He forces her to look at life differently and to realize that she was not the victim in everything that happened....he also forces her to realize that she can no longer get away with her shallow behavior....she no longer had everyone wrapped around her little finger and therefore she had to become a new version of herself.
It was on ok read, but there's no way I believe that selfish, spoiled, self-centered Darcy would change after one wakeup call argument with Ethan.
Seemed like the only pull selfish Darcy had on Ethan was that he got screwed over by Brandi and missed out on being the dad he thought he was going to be so Darcy's handy and needy and he can be those babies daddy.
Felt like Ethan and Darcy settled...a more or less love the one you're with.
Although they felt a little guilt you were left with Rachel and Dex very happy with their outcome and you wanted the best for them.
Premise is way better than the first book.
Loved it!This book is about Darcy, the self-centered friend from Something Borrowed.
I think almost everyone can relate to this story.
No, not everything, obviously, but I think most of us have been like Darcy at one point in our lives.
We all think that we're the good guy in our story, until something happens that knocks us down a peg (or two).
And once you take a good hard look at what happened to land you in that position, you tend to discover that, well...maybe you weren't such a great person, after all.
So, maybe that's why I thought Darcy seemed real.
This is the follow-up to Something Borrowed told from the perspective of the best friend Darcy.
In the first book, we meet Darcy and learn that she is the beautiful best friend who has everything handed to her on a silver platter.
After her plain-jane best friend, Rachel, steals her perfect fiance in the first book, you feel like Darcy got a good dose of karma.
She did, after all, cheat on her fiance too and ended up pregnant while still engaged.
I almost didn't want to read this story, simply because it was from Darcy's perspective.
However, I really liked this book much better than the first.
I was looking forward to reading this book.
I had just finished an excellent book and was ready to start another.
This book was bad.
It was actually a chore to keep reading, but I hate to leave a book unfinished.
My husband was actually hiding the book around the apartment so that I wouldn't have to read any more of it.
This book is chick-lit at it's poorest.
The main character was flat and the plot was ludicrous.If you want to read some GOOD chick-lit please do yourself the favor of checking out any of Jennifer Weiner's books.
Emily Giffin did it again! She made me love a character I thought I was going to hate (I actually didn't like Darcy in Something Borrowed but in this book loved her). And, I love how she grew as a decent human being and fell in love (with someone I did not expect... at all). Take my advice, instead of watching a TV show marathon or getting stupid drunk this weekend read these two books (Something Borrowed and Something Blue). You will want to send me flowers as a thank you for my advice (I prefer some colorful flowers, thanks).
Not as good as "Something Borrowed", but an OK book.
It seemed unrealistic how quickly the main character flips from being completely self-centered to a giving and ready mother.
The small dramas in "Something Borrowed" were petty and common, but they were also heartbreaking.
In this book, the drama is petty and less interesting.
For example, Darcy realizes after a hundred pages that she needs to stop drinking cocktails because it could hurt her unborn child.
At its core, "Something Blue" is a redemption story, but I was only really interested when characters from "Something Borrowed" were weaved into the plot.
This series was ADORABLE. I didn't enjoy this one quite as much as the first one simply because I prefer Rachel over Darcy, but this was still sooooooo cute. Idk when this happened but I suddenly love Chick Lit???????
The freakishly obnoxious b*tch from the first book is obviously going to get what’s coming to her in the sequel and frankly, the devil in me is just in the mood to read about it.
To be fair, any book that is published with the chick lit logo is going to have an impossibly perfect, Bridget Jones becomes the princes bride ending so I should’ve managed my expectations accordingly.
But like I said, this is chick lit so obviously this does not happen.
Rather, in “Something Blue” we get the rest of the story from Darcy’s perspective, which ends up being one of the more irritating and whiney narratives I have ever read.
The Darcy we meet in the beginning of this story is the same manipulative, selfish bitch that we saw in the first book, but I gotta say - there was a certain frankness, an honesty to her narrative (something that I found completely lacking in Rachel’s), and I couldn’t help but be drawn to it.
In this book, however, she reaches a point where she is forced to face some hard truths about herself, and in the process, reevaluates everything about her life.
(view spoiler)[ Darcy’s transformation happened way too fast - I wish more time had spent on this part of it and much less time on the Darcy-Marcus part of the storyline.
I enjoyed this book much better than Something Borrowed. Maybe because I knew of Darcy from Rachels point of view and was anxious to see what she was really like. The story flowed much better than the previous book and there was never a dull moment in this one and the ending was just perfect.A quick easy read. I was able to read this book in two sittings.
Honestly, I didn't like this one much more than "Something Borrowed", but due to the ending (which I had a hard time believing) I still gave it three stars because I think that the main character in this one (Darcy) was more honest about her crap than her ex-best friend Rachel.
There, Darcy reconnects with Ethan and in her own messed up way is there to try to drive a wedge between him and her ex best friend Rachel.
I also thought that she had a point that Rachel was her best friend and that Darcy would not have done something like that to her.
So glad that Darcy learned what was important.
★★★The first half of this book is awful! Darcy is one of the most vile characters I have encountered in a book, and she is the heroine. She is self-absorbed, amoral, deceitful and vindictive. She is an all round awful person. She cheated on her fiance, her lover leaves her and her friends have all abandoned her. And that's the first half of the book. At the lowest point in her life and pregnant, she travels to London to stay with a childhood friend and hopefully get her life in order. The second
★★★½The first half of this book is awful!
Darcy is one of the most vile characters I have encountered in a book, and she is the heroine.
She is an all round awful person.
She cheated on her fiance, her lover leaves her and her friends have all abandoned her.
And that's the first half of the book.
At the lowest point in her life and pregnant, she travels to London to stay with a childhood friend and hopefully get her life in order.
The second half of this book is great.
How much did I love the second half?
So, even though I didn't love Something Borrowed, the ending was so sudden, I felt compelled to finish the story by reading Something Blue.
For the first portion of the book, I focused on how, as a character, Darcy was exactly as I remembered her from before.
Giffin leaves out a chunk of time in Darcy's progression from self-centered competitor to loving mother, and I felt ripped off that I put up with the crappy character only to get short changed on her maturing.
I liked it better than Something Borrowed, where I definitely felt more connected to Rachel, but judging it on its own, it was definitely just 2 stars.
Este libro me gusto mas que el anterior por la sencilla razón de que Ethan es un AMOR y porque el cambio de Darcy (aunque bastante rapido) se lo merece.La verdad que durante la primera parte este libro fue mas de lo mismo, Darcy siendo Darcy es decir insoportable por lo que no tenia muchas ilusiones puestas, pero a partir de viaje que emprende Darcy, de su encuentro con Ethan y todo lo que el le hace ver, el libro, mejora un monton y eso es lo que me gustó, como Darcy va cambiando, madurando, centrandose en lo que importa y dandose la oportunidad de ser algo mas de lo que ya es.
Ethan is more present in this book, which is a good thing because I liked him very much in Something Borrowed and wanted to read more about him.I found myself wanting to know a little bit more of what happens to the other characters from Giffin's first Novel: Rachel, Dex and Marcus.
Just when you think that you have the story all figured out, there are a few surprises that you don't see coming, which made this book even more enjoyable.
I recommend this book to anyone who's looking for a light, easy read and liked Something borrowed.
One of my all time favorites. This and Something Borrowed.
As a writer, one of our greatest challenges is to redeem a seemingly unredeemable character.And that's what Emily Griffin does to perfection in this novel.Darcy is an unlikeable character in the first book Something Borrowed and starts off in a similar vein in this book.Which makes it all the sweeter to see her self-awakening.Enjoyed the flow of this one.
Darcy intends to marry Marcus and raise their baby together, but when Marcus refuses to have anything to do with her, Darcy, panicked and out of options in what once was the opportunity-filled New York, decides to go stay with her childhood friend Ethan in London.
Which is just as well because Ethan has started to see someone too.But although life in London is turning out just as she imagined—finding the perfect man to take care of her and her child—something is just not right.
Maybe she really was altered by being dumped twice in such a short period, but I've known real people, who after all that happens just thinks it's the fault of fate, or the other person or blah blah blah.
Maybe Ethan did like her more than it appeared in Something Borrowed (where it seemed that he was around her because Rachel was).
Darcy's relationship with Ethan was lovely, and I appreciated it for all it's sentiment.
I just wish it felt real, and not just some story told to make us think that she was saved by love.
It follows narcissist Darcy after lifelong-best-friend Rachel steals her fiancé Dex. And while it was great to see Darcy's development as a character, I didn't feel like this book was quite as eventful as the last one.
Still, Darcy holing up in London but not really knowing anyone didn't provide the same opportunities for learning experiences/drama as if she'd stayed in New York (where Rachel and Dex live).
At least there's a happy ending.Loyal, reliable Rachel, my best friend of twenty-four years, who always had my interests ahead of, or at least tied with, her own, had--WHAM!
I almost didn't read this book when I realized that it was going to be from Darcy's perspective.
At the of Something Borrowed I could not stand Darcy's character so I couldn't bear the thought of reading a whole book about her, I continued to have that feeling as I started reading this book.
This was an awesome series (Something Borrowed & Something Blue) I can't ever remember totally changing my opinion about a character like I did with Darcy, Emily Giffin did a fabulous job of creating two so completely different characters within one.
I loved this book and am very excited to read more from her!
I'm a huge fan of the movie and I always wondered what happened to Darcy, but reading "Something Borrowed" wasn't as good as watching the movie, I found myself hating Rachel and Dex and preferring Darcy. So let's see what I think of all of them once I finish this book.
3.75
I still have the book and will probably go through it again just to clarify details Suffice to say it was worse than the first book and completely out of character for Darcy in conjunction with the first book.Full review:I'm actually just getting around to reviewing this book in 2014, but upon reviewing the narrative, not much about my opinion has changed in that time, unfortunately.
I read this before I decided I was done with reading any more of Giffin's narratives (long story behind that), but to reflect on "Something Blue" - I think Darcy's narrating voice was even more grating than Rachel's from the last book.
