https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1058030.The_Thinking_Reed
Regardless, here are a couple of quotes to give you an idea of her targets, which are, as she said later  "the effects of riches on the people, and the effect of men on women, both forms of slavery" :  "That certain women were ready to sell themselves caused no excessive disgust in Isabelle.
If certain able stocks in the community were able to amass enough wealth to give their descendants beautiful houses to grow up in, the widest opportunities of education, complete economic security, so that they need never be influenced by mercenary considerations, and easy access to any public form of work they chose to undertake— why, then, the community had a race of perfect governors ready made.
Features of West's writing familiar to me from Black Lamb and Grey Falcon are present here, albeit in a fictional story about a wealthy woman defining her own personal characteristics against the characters of the men she's loved.
What may be even harder to take are the long passages condemning the way rich people live - not because there is no reason to condemn the kind of selfishness depicted here, but because the protagonist appears just about as selfish as everyone else, and hearing her cry, "Oh, I'm privileged!
Damn my having to go to this resort and hang about with disgusting people!" isn't any more of a mitigation than rich liberal guilt usually appears to be.
I am compelled to warn you, even to the point of appearing spoilerish, that I hit that point because the novel became somewhat repetitive and boring.
That she is also very wealthy is not incidental, and in fact, I consider the second characterization to be the lifestyle of those with enormous wealth in France of late 1920s.
It is this latter characterization which lays the foundation for the last 150 pages.
To me, it was these last 150 pages that made the book worthwhile and which are, I assume, what provided this novel with an entry on Boxall's 1001 list.
This was on my late mother's shelf inherited some years ago, and just noticed now as we built our family library and transferred hundred of books around the house.
That said, it's an interesting vehicle for West's jaundiced view of what wealth does to people's souls, and the destructive instincts of the greedy or insecure.
Deeply felt and beautifully written, it's obviously just West sounding off about the vapidity of the wealthy and privilege, but nonetheless valid.
She has it in for the English aristocratic type, in particular and one wonders which particular family she was skewering with Lady Barnaclouth et allii.
Very much of its time. Gives an insight into the gilded world of luxury and privilege enjoyed by the rich between the Wars. There is always a sense of impending doom lurking. The other theme is the relationships between men and women now radically altered by social change. Not an easy read, many long passages on her theories and the language had me reaching for the dictionary many times, but interesting
Very real and philosophical. I think Miss West could have written 300 more pages of her views. The story completely engrossed me within the first 25 pages. I could not wait to read about the situations (and the perspectives) in the book.Sad to finish the book; but happily ordered a few of her other books.
I can't say enough how much I enjoyed this book.
I loved Jane Austen when I was young enough that "happily ever after" ended at finding a guy you like and maybe for engaged to, but find that her stories don't pack the same punch as a grown and married woman.
Hopefully some day I get around to posting some of my favorite quotes, since this book is sadly underrepresented on goodreads.
I liked this -- some interesting things about power and privilege.
The Lauristons are one of the best take-offs of a certain kind of mind-set that I've seen.
I was also kind of impressed by the stuff on race -- at one point she started on analogy of white people talking to natives that made me get all skeeved out, but when I continued I saw that the analogy was skewering said white people's preconceptions about and condescension towards "natives", rather than just being creepy about white people vs.
I don't know what I was expecting from this book.
There was a bit of "Great Gatsby" a bit of "For Whom the Bell Tolls" and a bit of "Mrs. Dalloway" rolled up into it.
A young, orphaned, widowed American living in France.
Her lovers, her manipulations, her life.
The writing is good, but the story was...
I was totally into the story in the middle, and even 2/3 in, but the ending was a drag.
You aren't missing much by not reading this book, but those of you who love "classics" or just stories written in the post-war/pre-depression era may like it.

recommended in the June 1936 Delineator magazine!
Took a while to get into, found Isabella far too easily led, felt she needed a good shaking.
I FOUND IT! I knew I had it somewhere.
