https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781046.When_It_Happens
The thing is, while Dave has both the looks and the popularity, Tobey spends his time playing chess with his best friend Matt and chokes up every time Sara comes near him.
It’s very realistic and it has a set of extremely well-developed characters, the language is straightforward, easy to digest, and used in a way that contributes to characterization.
This is another point where Colasanti used language to her advantage: she made Sara sound like a girl and Tobey like a boy, and she made it very easy to tell their voices apart.Truth be told, contemporary YA is never my first choice.
Except that Dave (that’s the Ken doll) doesn’t make her feel very special; in fact, he’s only in it to, you know, “get down tonight” and she’s just not ready for that.
Too cute.) And unlike with Dave, Sara feels this incredible connection to Tobey.
Just thinking about them as a couple makes me squeal, so I know other romance lovers out there (especially those who like for the girl to go for the dark-haired, brooding, creative type) will devour this one.
Most of the dual narrative novels I’ve read encounter this problem when the author tackles the opposite sex, so it’s not exclusive to this book.
Those movies, this book are just simple and sweet stories with a dash of teen angst, a little late teen rebellion and a lot of falling in luv.
Who didn’t love the emo girl coming out of her shell with the princess make over that she got?
Or who didn’t love the idea of rebel boy getting little Ms. Perfect?
And then there’s my personal favorite, Andrew McCarthy (in anything!)
Well, WHEN IT HAPPENS is a throw back to all those movies.
Where one thought something was cute, the other thought it lame… and the rare instances where one thought something lame with the other concurring!I also loved their friends!
Second of all, the pacing issues in this book (e.g., Sara finding out that Tobey and Cynthia used to have casual sex) meant a frequent glossing over of major developments.
Dave Matthews Band pops up gratuitously in several places, and Tobey makes the strange choice of using "Say Goodbye" to prove his love to Sara before sleeping with her for the first time.
Rarely do we get any introspection from him about his actual feelings for her, or anything at all to indicate that there is anything beyond sexual attraction.Also, the non-relationship between Sara and her mother needed way more development.
It jolted the reader out of the narrative long enough for them to think, "Wow, the author's trying too hard," before sinking back in to the story.With little things like that, it took awhile for it to really feel that Colasanti got into the groove of the story.
Things started to sink into place between pages 30-50, and the real plot began to emerge.
Once you hit that place in the book, When It Happens turns into a sweet story of a guy who wants to get the girl.While the novel wasn't perfect by any means, the story was cute, the characters all likeable and the end satisfying.

Thus, I decided to read this out the three options I had: Waiting For You and Take Me There.My feelings about the book could be summed up by a repetitive dialog in the book, “You"re so much more than you"re letting yourself be." That's what I felt like saying to the author, as the seemingly interesting storyline got more and more frivolous.I know that Dave thought of girls in terms of sex but so did Tobey; his thoughts weren't just as pronounced and as forceful.
What high life, the popping pills in try rooms one?In all, I had high expectations for this book.
I read this book on the recommendation of a very sentimental friend, and the novel turned out to be everything I expected: predictable, overly-forced, and out of perspective.
Within the first fifty pages, I had planned out the whole entire plot of the book.
Every part of the plot line was predictable.
I, being a teen myself, felt like this was someone who had no idea what she was talking about.
All the words seemed dated and like she was trying to hard.All in all?
A predictable, ho-hum, normal novel that was generally pointless.
It's one of the best YA novels out there, and definitely the best love story, on par with that of Ron/Hermione, or Lily/James.
Her alternation of POVs is also great, with not too many but not too few characters telling the story.
One would think this would be repetitive, but I LOVED seeing the very different ways Sara and Tobey thought about the same events.
Because it tells a good story, but has a great moral too: Identify your dreams and then do whatever it humanly takes to make them a reality.
It's not only an adorable lasting love story, but it's got much depth and other things that provide deep reflection.
"Maggie's like, 'Did he call'" Already, by this line in the second paragraph I was frustrated and disappointed by "When it Happens." The author is a high school teacher; she should have been able to write realistic compelling dialogue.
The alternating first person narratives between the two protagonists does not present a cohesive story but rather a battle of the sexes and comes no where near the writing of "Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist." The plotline, all though certainly not an original one, could have worked had Colasanti not confined her characters to stereotypes of "jock" "geek" and "slacker." The emotions of the characters are blunt and one dimensional.
However, I hope that if encouraged to experiment and with a little writing help, Colasanti could come out with a strong second novel.
By the end of the novel, I was eager to find out if Tobey and Sara truly were soul mates and where their future would take them.Reading Challenge - Propose an alternate endingDespite the fact that I liked how the story progressed and wrapped up, there was an opportunity to take a different approach at the end that I felt would be more fulfilling.
It bothered me that the conflict of the novel revolved around Tobey being forced to share with Sara something about his past that I felt was private to him and his right to keep secret.
I would have liked to see the conflict of the novel revolve more around Dave and Sara.
This was a really cute story about the inner workings of the dramatic teenagers mind.The crushes, the swoons, the plans and plotting of it all brings back fond(and not so fond) memories of what it was like to be a teenager searching for "something real", and then realizing that it's even better then you realized it would be once you found it.This is very dialog driven, and at first I had a hard time connecting with the characters but after a bit I found each of there voices and what I thought was a story that was maybe a little to young for me, turned out to be interesting in a very realistic way.
This was so...immature. Let me extrapolate:1. Tobey's EXTREME wooing tendencies. 2. SARA.3. SARA.4. SARA.You see where I'm going?
It is a totally vapid novel about a high school romance that is told from two alternating perspectives -- Sara (Ms. Smarty Pants) and Tobey (Mr. Indie Guitar Player/Slacker Guy).
I really can't overemphasize how totally shallow the book and its characters are.
It's just really one-dimensional and the characters are flat.I read on the back flap that the author is a teacher at a public high school in NYC.
I think it would have made for something much more interesting than this suburban high school stereotype that so many YA novels seem to focus on over and over again.
This was really fluffy but I enjoyed it a lot! It doesn't start off very well but after about 50 pages, I was completely hooked. Can't wait to check out Colasanti's other books!
This book was really good! I read it in two days which is very fast for me. It was such a cute book.
"There's just... this intensity... something real." This book is a love story. An insta-love story. And if you don't already know this... I am not a fan of insta-love. "I peer into my dresser drawer at my ancient underwear. If I were seeing my underwear for the first time, what would I think? It all looks kind of damaged. Do I need to get new underwear? I hate having to ask my mom to buy it for me. Everyone wears underwear, but it's humiliating to admit this fact to your mother. Even if she doe
he is a guy.I had to remind myself of this fact over and over because his POV sounds like a girl through and through.
Meet the girl Tobey is in love with: Sara.
She is a senior in high school,(like Tobey) but to be honest, Sara sounds like a giggly, naive 13 year old girl.
Unless you like being a waiter."Tobey:"Don't you think I'm good?"Sara:"You know I do.
But it doesn't matter what I think."Tobey:"I have dreams,too, Sara.
"I've been trying to be okay with the fact that there was another girl in Tobey's bed before me.
My exact thoughts were 'Is there actually a guy out there like Tobey?'I always have gotten used to the idea of guys being un-romantic and incapable of well, passion that every time when I read a book about a guy professing his undying love to his 'soul mate', I'm taken aback.
It's a wide world....Tobey sort of reminds me of Edward Cullen, him being so in love with Sara and all, I mean, he's not like other made-up guys I've read before in books!
*SPOILER ALERT*My problems began with Sara and her friends.
Supposedly they are all best friends, but I only saw the friendship revolving around Sara.
Now I consider myself a fairly smart person but you don't hear me telling people that all the freaking time.
Just one I'd like to see a fight like this:Sara: I'm like, so smart!Tobey: Could you stop saying that?
Sara: Then get smarter like me!Tobey: ....My last problem is the structure of this story.
I'm sorry for making this so long, but I'm shocked people like this book.
I am well aware that these books are intended for YOUNG adults but genernally they are somewhat relatable regardless of age, especially in my case where I am only 23, however, I thought this book was very immature and the writing, to me, was awful.I will first start off by saying what in the world was Susane Colasanti thinking when she decided to use phrases such as "and I was like..." "and so I go...".
Now I understand that when you are having a coversation you may use sayings as such but seriously when reading phrases like "he said..." "she said..." work perfectly fine.
Sep. 2011.i wish there was a rating for 'hated it' because that's exactly how i felt towards this miserable excuse of a book after i read it.ive thought about writing a review and it was soo bad that i couldn't even do it.but now i'm going to.i feel like i need to warn people.i think i read a review for this saying that we would be rooting for the characters.
haha Basically, this one is a very fun, fresh and witty read.
Since i'm a big sucker for happy endings I love love stories like this.
What i trully like about this one is how it is told in both the perspectives of the main characters  Sara & Tobey  regarding the same situations.
I especially like the remake of the scene from  Say Anything , wherein Tobey stands in front of Sara's window holding a boombox above his head!
kilig.haha.k. The dialogues are fun and very easy-going, typical for high-school couples.This book is not all about happiness and love throughout.
Sara is on a quest her senior year; to find something real and to get into NYU.
She is a self-described nerd and proud of it, yet secretly longs for popularity and acceptance.Tobey comes across as a lazy, but musically talented guy.
He is majory crushing on Sara and even with his gorgeous eyes, he just can't figure out how to get her to notice him.
There is the whole problem of Dave, seriously his nickname sould be D-Bag Dave.Sara, for whatever reason thinks Dave is it.
But, there just happens to be one right in front of her in music class.3 stars.Very cute, coming of age story.
Hmm, can’t say that I’m very fond of this one.
No twists and turns, no dramatic events or anything like that.
While reading I kept thinking “this can’t be it, something must happen soon” and I was always waiting for the big climax.
I was still waiting for it on the last page….What I found extremely annoying was the style of writing.
All this “and then I was like and then she goes” wasn’t my thing at all.
Whenever I read these kind of books (High School love stories) I keep comparing them to my favorite book in this category: Perfect Chemistry.
When It Happens didn’t accomplish this task either.
I did not really care for this book...too much inappropriate content
"And while you're waiting, don't settle for anything less than what you really want."
You overanalyze everything.- MaggieIt only matters what you want.- MaggieThere’s a lot more to life than just getting by.- Ms.EvermanWhy is it that when I look at him now, it’s like I’m seeing him for the first time?- SaraEverything is not as it seems.- LailaI shouldn’t expect one guy to be my everything.- SaraThe absolute worst is when someone else was there to feel your pain- TobeyWhat’s the point of getting to know someone who’s going to disappear from your life when you least expect it?- SaraWhat’s it like to be able to go into any store and get whatever you want and not even care about the price tag?-SaraMusic is the only thing that can take me away from the pain.
It isn't long before Sara's ditched Dave and is with Tobey, but are they really meant to be?Here's the problem with Colasanti's first novel: it's kind of a disappointment.
Told in alternating perspectives, the reader is treated to both Tobey and Sara's perspectives on events.
The first part of the book works pretty steadily towards Sara and Tobey hooking up, and this is mostly satisfying.
Sara's tendency to play games with Tobey's trust irritated me as well.Bottom line: it's not a terribly offensive book, it also isn't even close to the best in the genre.
Like they say, gotta start from the bottom and work your way up.Step by step and take your time; don't rush love - its complicated, delicate and a MUST!I like the way the author had Tobey and Sara's Point of Views.I must say I understood more about how boys really think and how they function in high school or Heck even now in the present.Along comes my man Tobey- a musician, a slacker to everyone else, but he knows he's capable of becoming anything he wants to be if he puts his mind and studies to it.
Yet, somehow as you can all probably guess, they do get together and it's all cute and fluffy and entertaining when certain situations arise but this leads me to where I get confused.As in practically every YA romance book ever written, some big situation normally goes down between the two lovebirds and they argue and they break up, making you want to slap them and tell them to get on with it (you know what I mean, someone being accused of flirting when they weren't, the evil pretty Queen Bee type misleading someone etc etc etc).HOWEVER, this doesn't have it.
