https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16301.An_Autobiography
5+
If you sat down with Agatha Christie and asked her about her life, this book would be the story she would tell.
I was very interested in the parts where she talked about her writing, how she got the ideas for many of her books, and how she felt about them.
She had written many, many books before she ever thought of herself as a real author.
I've loved all of her books that I've read over the years, and now I feel like I know the author herself as a real person.
It is her openness about financial struggles, being over-whelmed by public interest, and coming to change her mind about her own perceptions and aspirations that differentiate Dame Agatha from her characters - most of whom are pretty set in their ways."And I think I was right to be continually asking myself ‘Why?’ all the time, because to people like me, asking why is what makes life interesting.""I fell in love with Ur, with its beauty in the evenings, the ziggurrat standing up, faintly shadowed, and that wide sea of sand with its lovely pale colours of apricot, rose, blue and mauve changing every minute.
The reason why it took me so long to read it is because while many passages are really engrossing and revealing as to how she came up with her ideas and ended up being the number one best-selling author of all time (more than a billion copies of her books sold worldwide, and still counting!), other parts and sometimes entire sections are rather dull and, well, not very interesting.
To my mind this is Agatha Christie's most absorbing work ...
the story of her own fascinating and unconventional life which gently unfolds to the reader complemented by her subtle, dry wit.
She covers so much in this work: an idyllic Victorian childhood, youthful romances, dashed aspirations to be an opera singer or a classical pianist, two marriages the first of which ended in divorce, her daughter and motherhood, her reluctant entry into the world of writing.
Much of the rest of her life was devoted to travel with her archaeologist husband to far off, exotic places.
*angels start singing*This book has been sitting on my currently reading list for 5 months and one day, filling me with guilt and trepidation.
I finished it!And to be honest, it was a good book.
I enjoyed reading more about her life.
It helped that I already had a fairly good idea of her life going in.
The problem with this book is that it is so rambling.
Nothing is more wearying than going over things you have written and trying to arrange them in proper sequence or turn them the other way around.
However, it is still Agatha Christie and reading her is always a treat.
Wer Angst hat eine staubtrockene Bio vorzufinden, in der es nur um die Werke und ein wenig um Selbstbeweihräucherung geht, den kann ich hier beruhigen, das Buch liest sich wie ein Roman und ist gespickt mit vielen Anekdoten.
Sie berichtet von schweren und vergnüglichen Zeiten, lässt den Leser auch an ihren schwachen Momenten teilhaben, so dass man am Ende des Buches das Gefühl hat, eine gute Freundin verlassen zu müssen.
Für mich war dieses Buch aber auch ein sehr schönes Porträt einer Zeit, die mit dem Ausklingen des viktorianischen Zeitalters beginnt und bis in die 60er Jahre reicht.
I don’t often read biographies - pretty rarely in fact - but Agatha Christie being one of my all time favourite authors, it seemed rude not to.
To travel by train is to see nature and human beings, towns and churches and rivers - in fact, to see life.”I for one am sure that this wealth of knowledge, from seeing other cultures and experiencing them, enriched her writing.
She had been my favourite character in the book - an acidulated spinster, full of curiosity, knowing everything, hearing everything: the complete detective service in the home.”Would you believe that for the longest time she didn’t see herself as an author?
If you are impolite, they will despise you, and rightly, because you have not acted like a lady.’ [...] In spite of these arduous duties, servants were, I think, actively happy, mainly because they knew they were appreciated–as experts, doing expert work.
I would like to be an illusion still to somebody.We were a party of four or six, I think, and every time I danced with him and we sat out afterwards he was completely silent.
I also wished she'd talked more about when she had tea with the Queen - she does mention it and a very brief anecdote but I'd love to have heard the full details of this!The other thing missing for me were dates or her rough age when certain events happened, I found this a little confusing at times as it took me a while to work out when she was talking about.
I've read a handful of biographies and seen a few TV specials on Agatha Christie, but I had never picked up her autobiography until I saw it offered free on Audible.
I've read them all and consider myself a big fan.
There was plenty else she talked about in her exciting life and her travels and her habits and writing to not disappoint.I will say that the one down part is that this is an original recording from the late 1970's so audio quality is rough.
It was tough to understand her several times with the scratchy recording.
The Good StuffDelightful charming read Fascinating stories of Agatha's life Learned so much about life during the war in England Interesting historical information Enjoyed the chapter where Agatha talks about the production of going swimming as a girl and a women in Victorian England Very wise and accurate observations of life Was actually quite surprised how intriguing of a read it was, had a hard time putting it down on a couple of occasions Absolutley flabergasted that she really never had an inkling that she wanted to be an author until quite far along in her life Extremely funny at times Very respectful of her ex husband which is extremely classy Will be buying a finished copy with the bonus CD (hoping there are pictures in the finished copy as well) Honestly this was just like sitting down and having her tell you the story of her life - just felt very personal and honest.
A pleasant read. Especially her childhood was interesting and slightly eccentric.
Estamos, portanto, perante a interpretação da autora sobre a sua própria vida, que, sendo inevitavelmente subjetiva, não deixa por isso de ser extremamente interessante e nunca auto-congratulatória.Na verdade, e focando-me apenas na questão profissional, a sensação que tenho depois de ler este livro é que a própria Agatha tinha uma noção exata das suas capacidades e podia mesmo subvalorizar-se em vários momentos.
É uma biografia escrita de forma clara, detalhada e com pormenores muito interessantes sobre a vida de uma das escritoras mais famosas de sempre.
Για θαυμαστές της Αγκάθα Κρίστι, επιβάλλεται να διαβάσουν την αυτοβιογραφία της. Εκτός του ότι έζησε μια πολύ ενδιαφέρουσα ζωή, εάν μετά ξαναδιαβάσεις τα αστυνομικά της μυθιστορήματα, ανακαλύπτεις επιπλέον διαστάσεις στους χαρακτήρες και τις καταστάσεις.
Shy all her life and imaginative, Agatha Christie led a long and busy life, writing, travelling, and spending a lot more time at archeological digs with her second husband Max than I realized.
And I guess I’m not the only one as her books remain popular.
Like her mysteries and thrillers, her autobiography is light and breezy and surprisingly fast to read, despite its greater that 500-page count.
She meanders somewhat, talking about her childhood and family and marriages; her courtship with her first husband was interesting.
I’m so glad her mother urged Agatha to submit her writing for publication!
She lived for another ten years, and continued writing detective stories until the end, but this book gives an interesting peak behind the literary curtain at the woman whose book sales are second only to Shakespeare.She writes his book very much in the style of your great aunt reminiscing at length about her younger days, but although it is often slow paced and full of laborious detail, it's also a nice reconstruction of a time when a young girl could play with a wooden hoop in a garden and be well entertained for years.
This book is not only excellently written, it's also (unfortunately, in my eyes) very carefully written so as to keep a lot of the negative truths hidden.She ignores completely her disappearance and the fact that BOTH her husbands not only cheated on her, but did so multiple times.
These are three major life affecting things she either glosses over or completely ignores when she had the opportunity to discuss how these things affected her life, her feelings, but most importantly her writing.How can I love it so much and give it five stars?
Despite the constant encouragement by her family, Agatha never believed she could write.
If you cannot take a risk to do something you want when the chance comes, life isn't worth living." I ponder, what she would think of her beloved Bagdad and Syria today.If you are an AC fan, this book will inspire you to read every single word she wrote.
For budding writers, AC writes, " The one virtue that would never, I think, be quenched by me would be Hope." Her grandson Matthew always wanted everyone to make that their motto in life.
Αγαπημένη Agatha, λατρευω όλα τα βιβλια της. Αυτό ηταν το καλύτερο της νομίζω, γράφει με απλότητα και χιούμορ για την συναρπαστική ζωή που έζησε.
Really interesting!
DNF @66/513. I liked what I read OK, but i was never that much of a Christie fan, and the thought of reading another 450 pages about her life is, well, daunting. So, life is too short. In my case, literally so! Moving on to something else. More for serious Christie readers, I think.
One of the most sunny and cozy books I’ve ever read! Agatha Christie was a person I would love to be friends with. Easy in a good way, a bit ironic, sometimes sad, but always life-asserting, this book gifted me with great reading time. Would recommend to anyone.
En el verano, leí Huellas en el desierto, una novela de Gabriela Margall donde se cuenta la historia de amor entre Agatha Christie y su segundo esposo, el arqueólogo Max Mallowan, un hombre mucho más joven que ella.
Entonces hicieron una especie de apuesta, pero sin apostar nada, y la hermana dijo que Agatha nunca iba a poder escribir una novela de este género.Durante la Primera Guerra Mundial, Agatha trabajó como enfermera y en una farmacia donde se preparaban medicamentos.
Después de la Segunda Guerra Mundial, Agatha volvió a las excavaciones junto a su marido Max.En resumen, la autobiografía de Agatha Christie es un libro que debería leer todo fan de esta gran escritora de historias policiales.
I started the book with some mild curiosity about her life and career, but over the course of the five months I spent reading it interspersed with other books, my admiration for the author grew.
You can say what you like, that is an exciting point of view to hold at the threshold of life."I found her descriptions of life before the world wars entertaining, but when she wrote about war-time England, I was even more intrigued."Extraordinary rumours got about, rumours of that fantastic thing–War!
I was slightly disappointed to find the reason why Poirot is Belgian isn't as suggested in the Doctor Who episode because "Belgians make such lovely buns".The book is a lot about her travels, which is interesting, to me especially as traveling seemed relatively cheap and careless compared to current days, at least for persons in Christie's position.Even though Christie addresses a few times the idea that she must have been rich because she had servants and states everyone had servants at the time (in fact, in difficult times they choose to spend their money on a maid and a nanny rather than, you know, other stuff), I'd say it's going a bit far saying she wasn't well off at all - she never seems to have served people herself.Otherwise it's a lovely book, a bit long threaded in places, especially because everyone's character is described in large detail.
It was first started in the 1950s and continued until about 1975, written in a rough chronological order but by no means a scholarly account.
My mind always sends her forward in time at least 10 years.
So that was a bit confusing, but for less chronologically challenged people it should not be a problem.I also liked hearing about some of her favourite books that she’d written, or at least the ones she chose to discuss.
All in all, this is a delightful glimpse into the mind of one of the world's most popular authors, and very much recommended if you can track down a copy.
I remember reading Sidney Sheldon's autobiography and exclaiming how much it resembled the style he chose for his fiction; his life seemed like a roller coaster ride with sudden turns that could only be expected out of a fictional thriller plot.
Picking up Christie's autobiography with the same expectations, of course I was left slightly taken aback by how vastly different hers was from her books too.
Despite the fact that this was beautfully written and chock full of details about a fascinating life, I can only give it 3 stars.
I was most interested about Christie's writing life and these portions were few and far between.
I knew that she'd gone missing for 11 days at one point in her life, which made a big splash in the news at the time, but this book never mentions it.
:) Overall, I'd recommend this book to the ultimate Agatha Christie fan, the one who will enjoy hearing every detail of her early life.
It reads like a person trying to present a good image of themselves to the world.
You do get a sense that there are some people she felt really bitter towards and that she wished to express those feelings, but that she's so hobbled by wanting to come out looking like a nice woman, that she can't really fully get it out.
She writes about her divorce like that - for a few sentences seeming really human but then falling back into I-did-try-to-hold-on-for-the-child kind of language that feels unconvincing.
Because of that I felt a sense of distance when reading that kept me from being fully engaged.
