https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40465.Thank_You_for_Smoking
Rather, here are a number of snapshots featuring our super sharp Nick dealing with all he has to deal with in his capacity as chief spokesman for the Academy of Tobacco Studies in Washington, D.C.: THE MOD SQUADNick has lunch once a week with Polly and Bobby Jay, his counterparts, respectively, for liquor and guns.
As something of a bonus, here are a number of quotes from two of my all time favorite Christopher Buckley book reviews:From his review of The End of the Age, a novel written by Pat Robertson, champion of conservative Christian ideology: “It's hard to define The End of the Age exactly.
My pal Joe has an excellent one here - https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...BUT - I do want to tell you about one of my favorite parts before I shut up for today.During one of his many television appearances, Nick mentions that his agency has pledged a cool five million to convincing teens NOT to smoke.
Kids are going to look at this and go, 'Puuke.'""And yet," Sven said, "its brilliance, if I may say so, is in its deconstructability.""How's that?""Say the last three words out loud.""Smoking Is Right.""I think," Nick said, "that I can sell that to my people."Oooo - Subliminal.
The novel deals with the shameless exploits of a lobbyist for the tobacco industry, whose product was killing between 435,000 and 475,000 Americans per year (depending on whose expert was testifying), but the book is written tongue-in-cheek and is as close to a beach read as I'm going to get.Nick Naylor is chief spokesman for the Academy of Tobacco Studies, a Washington think tank committed to promoting cigarettes.
Today, Naylor would have no problem getting booked on Hannity & ColmesThe novel has a weird thing going on where Buckley mixes real celebrities with fake ones.
$1.99 on US Amazon: May 23, 2016
Brilliant satire of the Tobacco industry. Nick Naylor comes off as an actual person throughout. Well written, incredible characters and funny as hell. Recommended to all who like a little bite to their humor.
I've a life span of 3-7 minutes, and that too luckily, if I am not incessantly dragged by a moron human, while he gets to last until eternity.
I am still thankful though...to our old bearded-deep-voiced cigg god, to not have come across the wicked gassed people.
And there had been a time in my life, when I was obdurate, when I was devoted, to the cause of getting my fellow cigarettes out of their bigotry.
I've turned cynic now, I've not the time to make substantial changes to the way cigarettes think.
– and I'm glad that I finally got around to reading Thank You for Smoking,, which has to be his best work to date.Here, Buckley sets himself the herculean task of turning Nick Naylor, the tobacco industry's chief spokesman, into a sympathetic character.
Take this advice, which Nick gives his 12-year-old son:'"The important thing is...is to feel tired at the end of the day.' Aristotle might not have constructed an entire philosophy on it, but it would do.
A political satire skewering the tobacco, alcohol and gun lobbyists, the media, and the politicians who all have a role in public policy regarding these “legal vices.”Nick Naylor is the chief spokesman for the Academy of Tobacco Studies, an organization funded entirely by the big tobacco producers.
But when he goes on Oprah, he becomes a hero to “The Captain,” and the golden boy of the Academy.
Still the industry wants to ensure their golden boy is safe, so the Captain assigns him heavy duty security.
One of the funniest books I've read in a long time.I saw this on a library shelf and remembered how much I'd enjoyed the film a few years ago.
Who would have thought that lung cancer, gun death and fetal alcohol syndrome could be so hilarious...Nick Naylor is Big Tobacco's spokesman - the man whose job it is to make them look good, to suck up criticism and spin it into a positive.
The whole book manages to mock a whole host of industries and employers.
If you enjoy slightly tasteless but incredibly witty reads involving morally suspect men - look no further.
A good example is the name of the main character, Nick Naylor, a lobbyist for the tabacco industry.
The three main lobbyists in the book are anti-ATF.To me, Nick is a modern-day Scrooge.
Not many people remember that at the end of A Christmas Carol, Scrooge is said to keep Christmas better than anyone.
I smoked briefly in college, but quit because I thought it was not healthy.
I get tired of people who try to tell everyone else how they should live.This book is not laugh-outloud funny as the cover claims, but it was an interesting read.
The movie dealt more with Nick and his family, especially his son, while in the book, they where in it for like one, maybe two chapters, out of thirty.
He dealt more in the book with his job as a spokes person for a pro-tobacco company and his relationship in the MOD (Merchants of Death) squad, which where the most entertaining parts in the film.What else can I say, Nick Naylor is a spokesperson for a group that promotes the most hated cause in america, the smoker.
The book was entertaining and easy to follow and I am lame to say this, but I am glad I saw the movie first.
Funny little biting political satire on the nonsense that goes on in Washington (and Hollywood, to a lesser extent); the money that changes hands, the souls that are sold, the amoral deals that are made, the shrieking hysterical harpies on each side of a divisive issue (smoking, in this case) that are convinced they just want what's best for the American public.
I’ve been looking forward to reading this book since I watched the movie a couple of years ago. Thank You For Smoking is one of the most cynical, devilishly funny satires I’ve ever read. It was written over a decade ago, when anti-smoking legislation–banning smoking in restaurants, etc.–rolled through after studies started to definitively prove the link between smoking and a host of physical ailments. The story is narrated by Nick Naylor, a spokesman for the tobacco lobby, as he tries to delay the inevitable...Read the rest of my review at A Bookish Type.
Satire, thy name is Buckley. Smoking opens the door on what could only be labeled Despicable Jobs and the People That Live Them, taking Washington lobbyists to task for their support of hideous business interests. Buckley thrives on humorous insights about cultural idiocies. Here he creates characters straight from the world of Carl Hiaasen, goofy and eccentric cretins one prays are only found in fiction, but are suspiciously close to the power-elite making the news on a daily basis. You have to laugh to keep from jumping off a cliff.
it is with a heavy heart that i must report to you that the movie is just,,, SO much better
Но фильм меня просто поразил: главный герой — лоббист табачной индустрии.
Главный герой, Ник Нейлор, — лоббист индустрии, считает это просто своей работой.
У книжного же постоянно сквозит одно и то же — «я это делаю, чтобы оплачивать ипотеку».В то же время фильм и книга отличаются основным конфликтом.
Если в фильме история с похищением Ника недоброжелателями эпизодична, то в книге — это большая часть повестования.По ходу чтения я часто задавался вопросом, что же мне больше нравится.
И в итоге понял, что книга — очень хорошая, однако кинообраз меня подкупает больше, он цельнее и сильнее.
Thank You for Smoking was adapted and directed by Jason Reitman in 2004, and quickly became one of my top twenty favorite films of all time thanks largely to the sardonic humor and Aaron Eckhart's irresistibly charming portrayal of lead character Nick Naylor.
Secondly, and this actually does apply to me, I find it difficult not to think of the film version while reading.
I find myself thinking in terms of, "That was arranged in a different order," "They truncated that character/plot" and "Oh, so that's what that was about."For those unfamiliar with the premise, it is the 1990s and Nick Naylor is the chief spokesman for the tobacco industry.
As I continue my long strange voyage through Chris Buckley's assembled work, I was surprised at how underwhelmed I was by Thank You for Smoking.
Whatever the case, while I read, and chuckled and enjoyed Thank You for Smoking this might well be the first Buckley book I feel no temptation to read again.With a plot that scatters like buckshot and a main character who cannot contain his sexual appetites, the book is difficult to really admire.
And yet, like all of his beltway books, Buckley infuses his novel with a singing sarcasm.
However, we seem to forget that despite how bad it might be for us, at the end of the day people in the tobacco industry are just trying to make a living.
All these things are considered "bad" in our lives and I liked seeing that not everyone thinks so.
I also liked that it wasn't a book in favor of the tobacco industry either.
The book brought these to light just as much as it brought to light the good things about the people in the industry.Overall, it was a fun and interesting book.
That's not a fatal flaw, but the inherent humor of bashing people who believe earnestly in causes that are generally good isn't quite as mordant after the reign of war criminal-cum-President G.W. Bush.Moreover, reading this in the age of Obama, when a fanatical religious tendency posing as the rump remnant of a political party has declared war on the very principle of actually governing, reminds one that what can seem utterly corrupt and venal at one point in time can appear to be at least functional at a later date.
Overall, this is a gently humorous read.
The first 100 pages of the book are worth reading, including a very funny and original twist in the story in which the main character, Nick Naylor, is kidnapped by supposed anti-tobacco fanatics.
Not to mention Nick's depraved affairs with a newspaper woman, which serves almost no purpose whatsoever, and another affair with a co-worker that serves only to advance the plot but does very little if anything for the story or characters.
There is humor, sometimes funny and sometimes trite, throughout the story, but it's nothing that will leave you in stitches.Overall, I felt the book was a disappointment.
275 - 2015#Program BUBUPertama kali dibaca pada tanggal 3 September 2009.==================================================Karena sudah nonton dan suka banget filmnya, maka waktu lihat novel ini terpajang di stand buku baru Gramedia langsung saja disambar.
Setelah berbulan-bulan baru deh buku ini berhasil disingkirkan dari to-read list.OK, jelas ada perbedaan antara film dan TV meskipun benang merahnya sama.
Namun perbedaan itu sah-sah saja, dan khusus untuk TYFS, kunilai film dan buku sebanding, khususnya dari segi humor satirnya yang menggelitik.P.S. Mengutip buku: rokok sangat berguna untuk mengurangi populasi manusia yang sudah berlebihan di bumi ini.
okay, i have to be honest here; i watch the movie first so the entire book is like an open spoiler to me.
i know the storyline, i can imagine what Nick Naylor and other characters exactly looked like...
of course, the satirical way of portraying The Big Tobacco is hilarious, but i feel like the movie were exceeding the 'hilarious-form' while the book is 'just hilarious'.
The book is also fast-paced, which i liked, but the characters were seemed to shabby and not well explored.
if you're looking for satirical point of view, and hilarious black humor, this book is the one for you

This book is one of those oddities, that ended on my list because I read about it on a forum about funny books.
And I'm glad to have read it, because Nick Naylor the protagonist has so many traits that made me feel so empathic with his situation from the opening lines to the very ending.
I really liked the gags, the pace of the book, but the characters save for Nick are a little stale, I also love the 90's references when still had cigarettes advertising, who would have thought that 20+ years after the publication of this book things would be so different.
Funny, but too caustic. Everything was so sarcastic I had a hard time accepting even the truth in that book. It was full of irony-- I could just picture the author rubbing his hands together like a mad scientist going "You won't expect THIS, suckers!" The ending was cliche, but not, because it ended the way we all expect it to, but it still had that ironic ... taste. Not satisfying, but not bad either. Read for a good laugh.
Hilarious satire of lobbyists for tobacco, alcohol and firearms. Full of witticisms, some of which made me laugh out loud. The main character is 40 year old Nick, VP at the Academy of Tobacco Studies, who finds ways to fight anti-smoking groups so he can "pay the mortgage". I find Buckley's books very visual- as I read I can see how the scenes would play out on a movie screen as a dark comedy.
Oh god I loved this book! I had seen the movie a few years ago and remembered liking it, but I wasn't dying to dive into the book necessarily. I'm glad I did. This book was hilarious and breezy - just great stuff. I immediately went and bought another of Buckley's books when I was about halfway through this one. I loved the Nick Naylor character and would jump at the opportunity to spend more time with him in sequel after sequel.
Интересный взгляд на курение. Начать курить эта книга меня не сподвигла, но общее впечатление на сие действо несомненно улучшилось. Впервые читаю книгу о пиаре. Сложно не позавидовать умению Ника, главного героя, манипулировать общественным мнением, простыми человеческими потребностями и желаниями. Хотелось бы еще почитать какие-нибудь книги в такой же тематике, с реально работающими примерами пиара, но из художественной литературы.
An excellent satire, full of funny moments. It lets you thinking how easy it is to manipulate people, especially in the lobby world of advertisement, so yes, it has a clear political message. I also watched the movie, whose screenwriter was the same author. Very funny, too.I recommend both for an easy and good laugh.
