https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91092.The_Kraken_Wakes
On the whole The Kraken Wakes reminds me a little bit of Wells’  The War of the Worlds in that some aliens show up, start decimating mankind with their weird death machines, then (view spoiler)[bugger off (hide spoiler)].
I would say that on the whole Wells’ book is superior but the second half of this book gives Wells a run for his money.The Kraken Wakes is split into three “phases” (excluding the prologue), in the first phase the fireballs appear and ships start disappearing, in the second phase the aliens begin their attack on coastal towns, and the third phase is the apocalypse.
Performed with the BBC Philharmonic Orchestra in a terrifying modern retelling of alien invasion and global flooding.
What if we were trapped on a drowning planet?Val McDermid is a long-time fan of Wyndham's work and retells this dramatic novel in light of contemporary fears of climate change.Recorded with a live orchestral accompaniment from the BBC Philharmonic.
There is something down there and humans are under attack.Episode 2: The floods have recently devastated parts of Britain.
The Kraken Wakes is probably the most different of John Wyndham's still read novels.
That said The Kraken Wakes is probably not the best place to begin reading any of Wyndham's novels.
I read the blurb about fireballs falling into the oceans, ships disappearing and a world-wide catastrophe (John Wyndham loves those, he'd no doubt be writing a story about 2012 if he were still writing now) and thought: okay so extraterrestrial threat and a Kraken rising up and destroying civilisation, yes?
Well actually the Kraken in the title was a metaphor for other things rising up out of the ocean.
There's a law of nature, still waiting to be discovered, which states that the probability of a tune or a bit of bad poetry getting stuck in your head is in inverse proportion to the quality of the piece in question. I read this book almost 40 years ago, and every now and then the following piece of doggerel resurfaces and annoys my conscious mind: Oh I'm burning my brains in the back roomAlmost setting my cortex alightTo find a new thing to go crack-boomAnd blow up a xenobathite Isn't it just h

Once again, a lesson in down-beat sci-fi writing. Something lands on Earth from space, crashing into the depths of the oceans and 'doing something we can't see' but can only imagine.We drop nukes on them and they come up to take us, bit by bit. The sea-levels rise...and we're probably doomed!Sound familiar? WAR OF THE WORLDS meets AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH...and its 50+ years old.Corking and grown-up. My favourite Wyndham novel, but only by a tickle over DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS
The emphasis for much of this book is on the media reaction the way public perception shifts accordingly.Personally, I thought the narrative style was somewhat distancing for large parts of the book and it may have benefited from multiple points of view to keep the reader close to the events that were taking place but some of the scenes were very evocative, depicting quite horrific moments when the protagonists happened to be close to the action.Not my favourite Wyndham novel but certainly has a lot going for it nonetheless.
There's a lot to like in this story, but I didn't feel quite as drawn into it as I had for some of the previous ones, possibly because I didn't find the characters quite as compelling.This story starts with Mike and Phyllis Watson, a husband and wife, away on their holidays at sea.
Although of course there are different reasons for the changes in the book, I think Wyndham was quite possibly commenting on the changes in our world climate, and also in the way that we understand our world...or rather, don't fully know the depths of it even now.
What if we were trapped on a drowning planet?Val McDermid is a long-time fan of Wyndham's work and retells this dramatic novel in light of contemporary fears of climate change.Recorded with a live orchestral accompaniment from the BBC Philharmonic.
Composer Alan Edward Williams worked with Val to create a brand new 50's B movie inspired orchestral score that takes on the role of the unseen Kraken during the performance .Episode 1:Radio reporters Mike and Phyllis Watson are drawn into the story when a Northern Lights cruise spots five fireballs landing deep in the ocean.
Buon racconto sul tema dell'invasione aliena. Il libro è ben scritto, Wyndham sa creare la giusta atmosfera di crescente angoscia causata da una lenta invasione, ma il finale non mi ha dato quel quid in più che mi aspettavo dall'autore del Giorno dei Trifidi. Nota a margine: trovo il titolo originale (The Kraken Wakes) particolarmente evocativo.
Another John Wyndham invasion story28 February 2013 Have you ever read a couple of books by an author that are simply so brilliant that whenever you see a book written by that author you grab it expecting that it will be brilliant as well, and then when you read it it just gets nowhere near your expectations? That happened to me with this book. It is not that it is a bad book, by no means, but after reading Day of the Triffids and The Chrysalids, I had such a high expectation with John Wyndham's
Remember at the time that this book was written the ability to explore the deepest parts of the sea were not as advanced as they are now, and even now it is not significantly advanced that we would be able to succeed where humanity in this book failed.
This book was also written during one of the high points of the cold war, which means that there is a large section of Earth, namely the Communist bloc, that we don't know what is going on there as well.
WARNING! THIS REVIEW MAY INCLUDE SPOILERS! John Wyndham’s “The Kraken Wakes” is a well-written, rip-roaring monster story that is both prescient and remarkably relevant to the present world situation, nearly sixty years after its publication.I have been keenly fond of the filmed adaptation of “The Day of the Triffids” since its original theatrical release. Only years later did I realize it was based on a Wyndham novel; it is next on my “to read” list. I was even less aware of “The Kraken Wakes”
John Wyndham’s “The Kraken Wakes” is a well-written, rip-roaring monster story that is both prescient and remarkably relevant to the present world situation, nearly sixty years after its publication.I have been keenly fond of the filmed adaptation of “The Day of the Triffids” since its original theatrical release.
I was even less aware of “The Kraken Wakes” until “Ted Brautigan” recommends the novel to “Bobby Garfield” in Stephen King’s “Hearts in Atlantis,” another wonderful King story.
Take it from King and me, “The Kraken Wakes” is remarkably well done and likely to be enjoyed by horror and adventure readers for years to come.
After some ships are sunk a nuke sea war start to develop.
The first act of retaliation this begins start sunking several ships.
As a human sonic weapon start to kill the aliens, humankind starts to rebuilt their new world, with less habitants and less non-flooded areas.The main characters are just there.
The second interesting bit is that the aliens went into the deep sea, so I think that both species could co-existed but humankind is not an Good species, xenophobic atittutes is what most writers of sff portrait humankind.
Also known as The Kraken Wakes.I'm a fan of John Wyndham and his 50's brand of horror sf.
Out of the Deeps surpassed my expectations.
It has all the makings of a summer blockbuster, probably starring Will Smith.
It has a husband and wife team of reporters as the protagonists, a scientist that no one believes, and tentacled aliens that rise from the deep in sea tanks to terrorize the surface dwellers.
Let Will do the theme song and you've got a license to print money.I'll rank Out of the Deeps right up there with Day of the Triffids as one of Wyndham's best.
La historia, contada por Mike Watson, periodista, narra la invasión alienígena de la Tierra, o más bien, de los océanos.
Un buen día caen en el mar unas extrañas bolas rojas, siendo testigos de ello Mike y su mujer Phyllis, reporteros de la EBC, pasando por ello a cubrir los subsiguientes eventos.
Hasta que los barcos empiezan a desaparecer misteriosamente.‘Kraken acecha’ (The Kraken Wakes, 1953), de John Wyndham, famoso por ‘El día de los trífidos’ y ‘Los cuclillos de Midwich’, es una novela de ciencia ficción que narra pormenorizadamente una posible invasión extraterrestre, haciendo especial hincapié en los efectos sobre los medios de comunicación y el caos de los gobiernos por intentar hacer frente a la misma.
These and other such questions have been asked in the book."The thing is that once we had developed intelligence we weren't satisfied with the world as we found it; so, are the things down there likely to be satisfied with it as they find it?"Being a title published in the early Cold-War era (1953), a lot of thoughts within the story reflect the former USSR as a suspect of doing things.
of the current age, and we could still have a massive problem if such an event would occur.The book is divided into three "Phases", of which the third phase (view spoiler)[comprises almost fully of sea-level rise, and how does humanity cope with it.
I just have to imagine them carefully deciding how much truth readers can take about, say, how the dog became paralysed.Oh, except the sinking of a Russian ship that popped up on my twitter feed, from CNN, just as I was reading about the mysterious disappearances of ships in The Kraken Wakes -- that I could picture being carefully handled and spun by the reporters.The ethics of these characters is particularly noticeable, I suppose, with the recent discovery of The News of the World's little breaches of ethics.Once again, this rides the line between horror and SF, I think -- through both horrific imagery and a sense of the uncanny when ships disappear and strange things happen to them.
"Kraken" is a proper "end of the world" type novel, and at one point on character even mentions TS Eliot when she says "so this is how the world ends, not with a bang, but with a whimper".What I particularly love about this book is the part that the narrator's wife Phil plays.
She is also treated as an intelligent equal by the scientists and naval types she and Mike meet during their investigations into the invading alien intelligences.All in all, The Kraken Wakes is a classic of British science fiction.
'The Kraken Wakes' has stood the test of time even though it is very much of its time - including the satire on the Cold War politics of the early 1950s, on industrial relations, on the media, its pre-Suez belief in the British Empire as a viable superpower and the gender relations.It is also a very fine science fiction horror which has the human race thrown back into pre-industrial civilisation by a threat from the skies which mimics the trajectory of 'War of The Worlds' from beginning to end but has the aliens to be new masters of the ocean deeps.This should be a Lovecraftian theme but there is no trace of the American master.
Little boys who live by the sea should not be allowed near this book as it will involve massive flooded fantasies of a submerged Sydney and it also makes them smile at this.I have always loved Wyndham, but the Kraken wakes holds a very special place for me.
SHOCK and AWE.Taking into account the ambiguous ending this book has not aged at all badly, in fact the fifties seem to give it an almost parallel universe feel to it now, yet it flows much like the flood waters and is a thoroughly enjoyable read, unless you are a small boy living by the sea with a massive end of the world daydream then you should thoroughly enjoy this.....Viva John Wyndham!;-)
Wyndham’s descriptions of the submerged London are fairly journalistic and matter-of-fact in nature; not at all like the hallucinatory images given us by J.G. Ballard in his masterful 1962 novel "The Drowned World," in which solar flares melt the ice caps and turn London into a phantasmagorical lagoon."The Kraken Wakes" gives us a man and wife, the Watsons, who are very much equals; refreshingly so, for '50s sci-fi.
What I will say is that this is the best imagining of an alien invasion that I have read since “The War of the Worlds” or John Wyndham’s other classic book, “The Day of the Triffids”.The writing style is a little formal, even old fashioned by today’s standards, but if you can get past that then the story simply sucks you down into the murky “depths” that are slowly being colonised by creatures that we can’t even see as they live at depths where the pressure would crush even our strongest submersibles.
It's not up there on the same level as DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS, but it proves more than a few chills in its story of mysterious underwater aliens who are hell bent on destroying humankind.Wyndham achieves a kind of chilly realism with this story in which there are plenty of loose ends and nothing is fully explained.
The story takes place on more of an international scale than TRIFFIDS and the various set-pieces are very well handled, particularly that Caribbean interlude with the invasion of the tank-things.Best of all, Wyndham achieves a kind of restless inevitability in his storytelling which I found frankly chilling.
Probably more a 3.5 because it got better towards the end.
I think if I had invested myself more in The Kraken Waves I would have enjoyed it a lot more.
I'm sure it's a great book and many people enjoyed it, I'm just not one of those people.
The Kraken Waves definitely caught my interest multiple times (but lost it just as many times).
I give The Kraken Waves an average 2.5 stars.
________________________________________Quickly updating this to show that I finished The Kraken Waves late last night/early this mothing and that I might finish my last 2 books of 2017 in time.
The way governments and business influence the press to keep the real magnitude of disasters from the public.Connections with other books I've read: The Sea Around Us by Rachel Carson where I first learned about the Deeps.The Highest Tide by Jim Lynch in which a kid finds a possible almost extinct Giant Squid on the shores of the Olympic peninsula.
He was a Rachel Carson fanboy who read The Sea Around Us over and over.The Deep Range by Arthur C Clarke, about whale farming and the sea monsters who threaten it.Kracken by China Mieville; the weirdest story ever about a Kraken.
Although the narrative gap is filled in, it still feels like a huge jump in the plot - as if Wyndham didn't even want to devote the time to telling the whole story.But what sells it is the descriptive language, and the intense foreboding throughout it.
Wyndham knows how to tap into our primal fears, and this is more than evident in this book where we have monsters from the deep (that are quite possibly aliens), natural disaster, humans turning upon humans, and the world as we know it coming to an end.
As with other Wyndham novels, several issues are exposed, some of which seem almost prophetic.
If there was a real threat, would the governments hide it from us “for our own good”?
When we see an issue that may have a real consequence on our planet, will we become complacent until it's too late?
There are brief and occasional efforts to end the threat, but nothing substantial.
Nor is there a substantial drive to find real resolution, since most the people effected by the invaders are “not us”.
This is an alien invasion story that pits humanity against creatures that take over the depths of the ocean and then proceed to attack.
Less subtle than the Midwich Cuckoos, though stylisticly and technically exceedingly similar, this novel is told from the perspective of a journalist who accidentally gets caught up in events, but only as he looks back on them from a distance of time - making the protagonist very similar to that of The Midwich Cuckoos.
Another similarity is the assertion that two intelligent species could not co-exist, but instead must come to strife.
Again Wyndham's false understanding of evolution and ecology is put forward to justify this view.
Good read. Fast.
3.5
