https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574047.Daphne_Deane
Grace Livingston Hill is always my go-to author when I need a nice, clean, sweet read. I love the sweetness of these characters. The climax was cool. There's not a lot to ramble about in GLH's books, they're just awesome.
The two begin to develop feelings for one another, although Keith is practically engaged to another woman, Anne Casper, a New York socialite, and Daphne is being courted by the new, “progressive” minister Drew Addison.While Keith is away on a business trip, mulling over whether he really wants to sell the old house or not and starting to question his affection for Anne, his less than scrupulous real estate agent, William Knox, promises to sell it to a shady Mr. Bill Gowney, even promising the would-be buyer immediate possession.
I decided to weed out the not-as-good GLH books in my personal library, but having never read this one, I wanted to give it a chance.
The contrasts in the "good" and "bad" young ladies are a little too polar, sometimes, so that the selfish one is almost a caricature, one who hates to give up and then wants her revenge.
The story-line is not as questionable as the write-up makes it sound, and there were some good lessons, though I didn't agree with every little thing, and the young man in some ways doesn't really seem to be a Christian.
This wasn't my favorite GLH book, but it was still okay. It is about a young girl who grew up in a small "gardener's house" near the property of a very wealthy family. As in most GLH books, her family is very respectable and educated. Still, they are not considered to be worthy to associate with the wealthy neighbors. The wealthy son comes back to town to sell the old mansion, when he meets the neighbor girl and suddenly is not in such a hurry to sell.
Ok - I read the 1937 version without the ridiculous cover (but still... while it was a sweet story, I definitely caught myself rolling my eyes at the corniness...)
I love Grace Livingston Hill's books, mainly because she writes from a different era.
Though the publishers tried to update her books by putting a 70's picture on the front, her stories are still set in the classic Grace Livingston Hill time period, the 30's and 40's.
This was a time in our history where life had rules, there was a distinct right and wrong, and classes of people were defined differently than today.
Grace Livingston Hill's books always have a beautiful and exciting love story, one where Christians and non-Christians lives collide.
I read her books to my 97 year old mother-in-law, Anna, and she relates in a different way than me.
My favorite author!I read this authors books while in high school, it is a delight to re-read them 40 years later!! This book is excellent!!
Interesting storyThis isn't my usual type of book, but I enjoyed every moment. It's about faith and a lasting love that endures all things.
read 03.08.84
