https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854312.The_Daffodil_Mystery
Quite naturally, this young woman by the name of Odette Rider is a major suspect in the case, and equally naturally we all know she could not have done it – for the private detective Tarling, who, for whatever reasons, works with the police on that murder, has fallen in love with her and strongly senses that she is innocent.There are various red herrings thrown into the game, and the actual solution seems, at least to me, somewhat hard to believe and constrained.
Did Wallace know what he was doing or did he figure out the identity of the murder as he was writing the novel?
One of the things he wrote was The Daffodil Mystery and since he wrote it and I read it, I'll move on to the story.This book got my attention right at the beginning when we meet and hate Mr. Thornton Lyne."I am afraid I don't understand you, Mr. Lyne."Odette Rider looked gravely at the young man who lolled against his open desk.
Do you know the girl?" asked Lyne loudly."I have never met the lady and probably never shall," said Tarling.
Most interesting was Ling Chu, the faithful Chinese servant of the detective hero Tarling, who must help Odette the damsel in distress, recently terminated at a department store by a fiendish store manager.
We learn that Ling Chu was himself a great detective in his Eastern homeland, yet apparently out of respect for the (in this novel, assumed) superiority of the white man, he eagerly and gladly devoted his life to coming to England, becoming the stay at home servant to the hero--though he could perform excruciating Chinese torture, speak languages he had kept secret.
Nach dem ich bereits andere Detektiv-Geschichten, zum Beispiel von Doyle, Christie, gelesen habe, war es nur eine Frage der Zeit bis ich tatsächlich auch auf Wallace aufmerksam wurde.
Eigentlich möchte ich gar nicht zu sehr mit Namen um mich werfen, da es manchmal auch zu viel des Guten sein kann.Doch fand ich es manchmal etwas ungewöhnlich, wie oft sich eine Aussage wiederholte.
Am Ende war es wirklich überraschend, wer nun den Mord begangen hatte und doch fand ich es recht merkwürdig wie oft etwas widerlegt wurde, was so offensichtlich war.
Interessant war aber auch, dass man tatsächlich aus der Sicht einer anderen Person ein Ereignis hörte, und dadurch das Puzzle vervollständigte.
And too many of the cliffhangers are resolved via flashback.Wallace doesn't display the same sort of wild inventiveness as in JACK OF JUDGEMENT and the mystery is not as compelling as THE MAN WHO KNEW, nor are the villains as memorable as in ANGEL OF TERROR or CLUE OF THE TWISTED CANDLE.Wallace does give us a heroic Chinese character who speaks flawless English and keeps surprising the caucasian characters with his intelligence, but there is a lot of unfortunate references to his race in general.
I'd say that people looking for Wallace at his best should check out one of the other mysteries I mentioned first.
I thought I'd guessed the murderer early on in the book, only to be caught by twist after twist after twist as this murder mystery goes in circles all the way to the end.
Tarling refuses, but is intrigued by the girl's plight; he has just begun to investigate when the rich man, Lyne, is found dead, with a brace of daffodils in his folded hands.
Everything about this case is strange, but Tarling, working with Scotland Yard, refuses to allow the girl to be accused without solid proof...and, as suspects change quickly, absolute proof is still needed.This tale will easily keep you guessing until the very end.New word learned: oleaginous.
Not at all one of Wallace's better books. Not even as good as his mediocre books. There was a mystery. There was a damsel in distress. There was a witty detective. There was a despicable villain--actually there were three of them. But none of it ever seemed to gel. Seemed that Wallace himself kept losing interest. Oh well, every writer is entitled to a dud very now and then.
It was a slow start and I thought I wouldn't like it but it picked up and had many twists and turns. I ended up liking it a lot. I'd recommend this book to others.
Another splendidly clever and engrossing vintage murder mystery from the pen of Edgar Wallace. Intriguing and suspenseful, it certainly kept me turning the pages. Now for the next one...!
For the longest time, this book carried my interest, twist after twist, and I felt sure it was heading to some ridiculously awesome surprise ending.
Not only is the identity of the murderer not a surprise, the detective (who all along says he has a theory) doesn't I.D. them (or do much detecting).
Huge let down.But I'm giving the third star because by the time I got two-thirds of the way in, I was positively itching to know who did it.
The plot itself was ok, but there was a lot of unnecessary fainting, a lot of weird outdated Asian stereotypes, and just lack of depth to the whole thing. Don't think I will be reading anymore stories by this author.
Solid mystery with some clever twists, but Odette was infuriatingly annoying and the love subplot was pukeworthy.
Being written in 1929 it was fun to see the different approaches to mystery the authors take
Per essere un giallino così, poco conosciuto, mi ha intrigata abbastanza.
While "The Daffodil Mystery" is something of a classic of the Edgar Wallace thriller style--briskly paced, bluntly characterized, densely plotted--its parts don't quite add up to a wholly satisfying novel.
The central conceit of the novel--the titular daffodil left on the murder victim's body (to say anything more, even about the initial crime, would be to spoil the plot)--leads to a complex web of international intrigue, even if the story never leaves London proper.
And despite the novel's flat characterization, there are still surprising moments where a suspect will do something truly unexpected.Aside from his astounding prolixity, Edgar Wallace's chief claim to fame as a writer is the complex, sometimes overly so, plotting of his mystery and thriller novels.
The story was interesting, with many twists and turns.
The characters were very interesting.
Thornton Lynn was an heir to a huge department store.
Odette Rider worked in the department store and did not respond to Mr. Lynn's advances.
Millbourgh was the accountant and suspected of stealing from the company.
Mr. Lynn's body was found in Hyde Park with a bunch of daffodils laid on his chest.
Tarling was a famous detective and also Thornton Lynn's cousin.
This book was written in the 1920's, but I did not like the way Tarling treated his Chinese servant.
Never figured out why he was Tarling's servant.
Yay: Decent mystery.
Weird balance of non-racist/racist portrayal of a Chines character (he speaks excellent English, he's a great detective, and he solves things faster and quicker than the non-Chinese detective does.
His Chinese, however, is written weirdly and he's "inscrutable," among other stereotypical things).Nay: Almost everything else.
The mystery goes on for way too long after the reveal of the solution.Verdict: I basically hated it.
The writing is the sort of thing you'd expect from Edgar Wallace, but I was hoping for more spice in the female character than what we actually got.
I'd read another of his mysteries just to see if it's better than this one, but not any time soon.
Edgar Wallace was a prolific novelist--mostly of mysteries and crime novels, although his best known story is King Kong.
This is the first of his novels I have read, listening to a free copy from LibraVox Recordings.
It was definitely a fun listen.
Together and separately they run around town trying to solve the mystery of a dead man in a park with a bunch of daffodils laid on his chest.
A boat load of read herrings are thrown out, making the novels water skip with fish.
But it was a free book and not all that bad.
Odette Rider is fired by Thornton Lyne after rejecting his favors.
Jack Tarling, a detective who has been working in China and just returned to London, visits his cousin Thorton Lyne at his store to discuss his cashier Milburgh's embezzlement.
In his anger with Odette, Lyne decides to try to blame her for the embezzlement instead.
Tarling immediately falls in love with Odette.
Lyne is found dead in the park with one of Odette's nightgowns wrapped around his gunshot wound and it doesn't look good for Odette.
However, Tarling is determined to prove her innocent.
Well, I'll try again to write a review (I lost the one I just wrote). I enjoyed this mystery by Edgar Wallace, a free download on my Kindle. I always like mysteries that don't let me guess the identity of the "bad guy," and this one didn't let me down. I had to finish it because I needed to know. Wallace's mysteries are always better than some, because they are solved logically and they don't allow one to guess who the culprit is. I enjoyed this so much that I am starting another by Wallace tonight.
This ended up being a great mystery, even though I had an inkling about who the guilty party was (this never ruins a good mystery for me - half the time I just love the story and trying to figure out "whodunit"...
especially when it's a period piece).
Like other readers, I listened to the audio version from librivox.org, and it was great.
I usually just listen to librivox books while driving in my car, but this was one of those books I couldn't stop reading/listening to, forgoing the TV or music in anticipation of the end.
I read this immediately after finishing Wallace's Duke in the Suburbs, so I had expected something lighter, frothier, and with more humor. Instead, I got a pretty routine '20s mystery, complete with dated views of China and her people. One of the bright spots was that the victim in the story was very interestingly portrayed, with a firm eye on human pride and weakness. Other than that, the story was largely forgettable.
Kind of a convoluted mystery set in the early 1900's in London. A wealthy department store owner is found murdered after trying to frame a former cashier in his story of stealing money from the store. The murdered man is an unsavory character who is called on the carpet by the investigator he tries to hire to frame the girl. The investigator becomes involved in helping the police solve the murder while also trying to protect the girl from being arrested for the murder.
Old school mystery. Parts were fun but overall meh. Probably I'll check out another. I guess that this is acknowledged as one of his more middle mysteries. Not his best. However, it was interesting how he showed the prejudice of the time while also writing the story of an incredibly intelligent Chinese man. I mean, who really figured out the mystery? Seems to me it could have been done without Scotland Yard, but never without the Chinese dude.
I really was so surprised this was such a good story. I like a longer book and this was quite long. I like a mystery without a slue of bad language and sex. This was decent. Some mentioned the swooning element was annoying. Woman did this a lot in prior history since that was how they could get attention without being termed mental hysteria. The book plodded a little slowly at first and in places for me, but for free it really was an excellent book to lose oneself in.
In this crime novel Wallace follows his usual style - a dashing detective and his love interest are introduced, the crime is committed, everybody is under suspicion, plot twist, happy end. I admit, however, that I learn something new and exciting in every novel of his and the stories are suspenseful and enjoyable still. So I like it. A nice distraction from the mundane activities.
Mr. Thornton Lyne, the owner of Lyne Stores, is found murdered in Hyde Park. There are varying suspects in this case which ends up being investigated by Lyne's cousin Jack Tarling. With characters like Tarling, Odette Rider, Milburgh, Sam Stay and Ling Chu, this mystery by Wallace gets pretty interesting and exciting.
Good read. A loathesome man bent on revenge is found dead and the main suspect is the young woman Tarling, the great detective, has fallen in love with. Finding the murderer takes some twists and turns and surprises. Worth the read.
I listened to this on Librivox as well. In general, a fun and engrossing mystery. The end was certainly a surprise! My main complaint was the repetition throughout; I thought many of the scenes could have been more concise.
Another entertaining, twisty thriller from Edgar Wallace. Every time it seems that detective Jack Tarling has cleared Odette Rider from murder charges, another damning piece of evidence arises. Is he just a sap in love or are his finely trained instincts right when he feels she must be innocent?
