https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10914.Songs_of_the_Humpback_Whale
Next, when the mom and daughter arrive in Salt Lake she gives an AWFUL description of the people and the main attraction - the Great Salt Lake.
Then, they take a ride to the Great Salt Lake with the polygamist doctor and his wives, which also happen to be heading there for a swim.
As they arrive at the lake she mentions all the people swimming.
When was the last time you went for a swim in the lake, or for that matter, met anyone who was heading out for a day on the beach?
This was a hard Picoult book to get into.
I kept putting it down to read other books instead.
The story (when it finally comes together) is a good but that skipping around and then hearing different POVs was just not an attention getter.
The characters had some likeability but for the most part no and they were hard to connect with.
My quick and simple overall: not her best but once you tread through the story and it comes together, it’s not bad at all.
The Tenth Circle: Laura has the most devoted husband in the world, yet she feels this strange compulsion to fall into one of her student's arms until she suddenly, mysteriously recognizes the error of her ways; Change of Heart: June spends 9/10 of the book saying she'd rather her daughter die than take the heart of such a monster; My Sister's Keeper: Sara would have performed the operation on Anna herself if she'd had a scalpel and a basic knowledge of human anatomy; and then we have Songs of the Humpback Whale, and Jane, whiny, whiny brat of a woman who wouldn't know real love if it threw itself in front of a van to save her life.I had a hard time with Jane.
It makes the story lost its sense of continuity between characters, they are only puppets and I can't feel the true people experiencing such situation.According to the book or the-forgotten-source that Songs of the Humpback Whale is a book of five voices and it hit my back and started reading her book, maybe I expected much and trying to level it with my own standard.
He wasn't been developed well by the author but it develops the character of Jane and that makes him special to others or maybe less special.The whole story only evolved to their broken relationship and finding the true meaning of family, love and itself.
Some of them were just plain creepy and disturbing; Joely who is apparently madly in love with his own sister, and Hadley a 25 year old man who thinks it is okay to have a sexual relationship with a naive, emotionally immature fifteen year old girl.
The novel finishes where it started and none of the characters really evolved or changed for the better.I was surprised this novel was published.
My advice: don't bother reading this novel, instead read some of Jodi Picoult's better novels like My Sister's Keeper, The Plain Truth, and Salem Falls.
Having read most of her later novels, I can say that this is definitely a "first book": it's not quite as well-edited, and from having knowledge of how her writing style has evolved, I can see that this was a really good first novel for a previously unpublished author.
I've read novels in which a story is told in different voices, but never one in which one of those voices begins telling the story from the end of the novel and working itself back through time to the beginning.
It wasn't the type of book that I like, and while I usually don't give a book a bad opinion, this one, as much as I hate to say this, stank.
All of it was in the first person; there were no dividing chapters, just the characters themselves.
While I don't find jumping timelines confusing in any way, add jumping with characters as much as timelines and I hated it.
It was finding out the ending before reaching the ending of the book, and hating the decision made that just made me feel like I wasted my time reading it!
This character did - for her daughter.
I've been reading some of Jodi Picoult's books and generally find them fairly entertaining, on the trashy side with some good lines thrown in every now and then. this one, reprinted due to her recent popularity, however, is not a winner. it took me forever to read and the style was annoying and inconsistent. supposedly told backwards from five different perspectives, it's actually in a jumbled chronology with confusing skips back and forth between characters, resulting in the reader not feeling very attached to any of the narrators. oh well.
Se este fosse o primeiro livro que lia de Jodi Picoult, a minha vontade de ler outros livros dela andaria ali perto do zero...
”But the humpbacks… sings songs that fill you to the core, that swell inside you. They are the whales with which I fell in love when I first heard the calls- eerie splayed, the haunted sounds your heart beats when you are afraid of being alone.” DNF on page 56.Setting:San Diego, California and Massachusetts; 1990-1992 Cover Thoughts?:I lurv apples, which is probably why whenever I look at the cover, it makes mr hungry… Plot: ”I’m telling you the story of our trip because I’m the only one who ha
It wasn’t that the plot was bad; it was just that reading from five (FIVE!!) different POV’s, all of which were set in a different time frame from the other one, made things so confusing that I had to put it down.
So I’ll just stick with Jane, Oliver, and Rebecca.
I thought she and Rebecca were so naively stupid in their actions that it made it hard for me to like them (especially after what happened I the ending).
A Little Romance?:This is from the Wikipedia page, mind you, but apparently, Jane has a little affair with Sam while she’s taking her journey of self-discovery and all that jazz.
Confronted by her past as an abused child, Jane and her teenage daughter Rebecca leave California in search of Jane's brother Joley.
Picoult's use of multiple perspectives allows the reader to realize each character's quirks and personalities; ultimately, the stories converge at the climax, and the reader discovers that there are many different types of love that exist - the bond between a mother and daughter, the relationship of a husband and wife, and the connection between a person and the love of his life - one that can never be broken.Overall, this was not my favorite of her books (Harvesting the Heart and My Sister's Keeper are the two I enjoyed best), but the character development was very good, and despite the fact the reader knows the end from the beginning, I found it hard to put down.
I initially warmed to Jane and her daughter Rebecca, but soon found them both to be flaky and rather annoying.
Some parts of the book were repetitive, to the extent that the exact same conversations were repeated - word for word - by different characters in their respective chapters.The book touches on difficult themes, in the authors true style, but the absence of any courtroom based drama means some readers will be disappointed.
I understand the author faced criticism for her supporting character stereotypes.For new readers looking to explore Picoult's writing, I would recommend one of her later books such as The Pact, My Sisters Keeper or Leaving Time.
Está bien escrito, es ficción literaria un tanto experimental, si se quiere, teniendo en cuenta su estructura y que fue publicado en 1992. Pero hubieron muchos tópicos que se "romantizaron" como violencia familiar, abusos sexuales, una relación entre una niña de 15 y un chico de 25.Todo muy raro. No.
I was surprised by the 1- and 2-star reviews for this book. I loved it and could not put it down. There was strong character development, and the family struggles in their different relationships as well as the outcomes and reasons for them were realistic. I also liked the unique way the story unfolded, one story going backwards in time and the rest forward, all being told from the viewpoints of the five main characters.
I thought the structure of the novel was brilliant: each chapter is from a different person's viewpoint and one of the characters relates her story from present to past while all the other characters tell their story in chronological order.
Beyond that, I didn't care much for the plot.
This story contains a bit too much steam for my taste, from the wife's affair to the daughter's inappropriate rendezvous with a 25 year old man.
It's really too bad because the storywriting itself was done really well but the plot loses it for me.
SICK and tired of reading the same convos and scenarios again and again from each person's perspective.
Made me weary to keep reading.Also, the characters trip to Salt Lake...
Do people swim in the Great Salt Lake?
And she inserts these supposed polygamists into the story...
Did all you Salt Lakers know you're polygamists?
lol LOVE that.And she rationalizes statutory rape, which is just weird.
She's going to point out her supposed oddity of a man committed to three wives but then one of her main characters pretty freely commits adultery and another statutory rape and those are totally rationalized.
Estou um bocado cansada desta leitura, como alguém disse aqui no Goodreads, ainda bem que este não é o primeiro livro da Jodi Picoult que leio, porque se fosse não iria ler mais livros dela.Nem o final salvou o livro..
A minha parte preferida é o modo como é contada a estória, enquanto Rebecca conta a sua versão da frente para trás, isto é, o inicio do seu relato é o fim da narração das restantes personagens e algures no livro ambas acabam por se cruzar.
Relativamente às personagens, a que mais apreciei foi a Rebecca que apesar dos seus 14/15 anos se revelou bastante adulta, ao contrario da sua mãe Jane que durante todos o livro se apresenta indecisa e depressiva, nem mesmo a aventura que iniciou foi uma decisão sua.
I know her backstory was supposed to make this happen, but in the end I just thought she was a whiny immature woman who didn't have the decency to just make up her mind already.Second, I thought the Hadley-Rebecca relationship was super odd.
On a similar note, I had a tough time with the Joley-Jane relationship.Overall, I just felt less than wow'd at the end.
I thought it was interesting to find out how Rebecca interpreted her parent's fight (the only real twist I noted at the conclusion), but that really wasn't enough to turn it around for me.
Songs of the Humpback Whale is a good read and structurally quite masterful. Multiple POV and one storyline running backwards. This was Picoult's first published work - and she pulled all this off at the age of 26! Outstanding. Stand back non-believers. Recommended.
Had this been the first Picoult book that I had ever read I feel certain that it would have been my last. Fortunately, for me, I had read others of her titles and, generally, thought they were well done, in particular House Rules  . The only redeeming quality of Songs of the Humpback Whale was the information about the humpback whale. The characters, by and large, were flat and uninteresting. The repetitive aspects of the plot line didn't work and were just annoying. Picoult's editor should have
Had this been the first Picoult book that I had ever read I feel certain that it would have been my last.
Fortunately, for me, I had read others of her titles and, generally, thought they were well done, in particular House Rules 
. The only redeeming quality of Songs of the Humpback Whale was the information about the humpback whale.
The characters, by and large, were flat and uninteresting.
The repetitive aspects of the plot line didn't work and were just annoying.
Picoult's editor should have done a more thorough job, particularly with transitions with time settings.
Altogether this was a disappointing read.
Este foi o passaporte para conhecer esta escritora e pelos vistos errei na escolha. Alternando os narradores a história vai sendo contada a 5 vozes. Um exagero. Gente a mais, confuso. Por outro lado a protagonista (ao contrário dos outros) decide começar pelo fim, tirando parte da expectativa e interesse. Para cúmulo, para demonstrar as perspectivas de cada um somos confrontados, por vezes, com repetições dos mesmos acontecimentos. Desagradou-me o curso da história com avanços e recuos, antipatizei com algumas posturas. Havia matéria interessante para trabalhar mas não foi de todo bem conseguido.
Adoro o aspecto de nos demonstrar as histórias com diversas perspectivas, o que além de enriquecer a história e a percepção que temos sobre determinados acontecimentos, permite-nos compreender o modo como cada uma das personagens dá importância ou percepciona determinado acontecimento, o que é bastante interessante.Embora não acredite em almas gémeas, nem tão pouco em amor à primeira vista, pois acredito que para podermos amar alguém, é necessário que nos conheçamos atempadamente e que se partilhe uma história de vida, esta história não me deixou de forma alguma indiferente.
I originally abandoned Songs of the Humpback Whale, placing it back on the bookcase around page 73, but I picked again after listing it as one of my To Be Read Challenge bookstack and coming to grips with the fact that reading the complete works of Jodi Picoult did require I read her first book too.Songs of the Humpback Whale, like all of Picoult’s novels, is told from the alternating views of the characters involved, but what sets her first novel apart is the fact that Rebecca, Jane’s daughter, tells her story backwards.
The overarching storyline of Jane leaving her husband is concluded within the first seventy pages, but the end of the novel is still a complete surprise.
I'm a big Jodi Picoult fan, so I'm trying to read all of her books.
Usually her books center around a moral problem that make you think, mostly with a kind of twist.
They are driving from CA to New England, because the daughter is too scared to fly (for a good reason).
They don't get a map like normal people, but rely on letters from her brother in new england to guide them.
i think this was one of her earlier books before she got her style.
i can't read this, i'm going on to the next book.
I believe this is Jodi Picoult's first novel, it's not the first one I read, but nonetheless this novel can make you fall IN LOVE with her.Jodi Picoult is one of my favorite authors, with every book I read she doesn't cease to amaze me.
You always learn something new, (like in this one where you learn about humpback whales, something I never thought I'd read about.)So, let me be more clear on what this book is actually about, because it isnt only about humpacks, :DThe main characters are Jane, Oliver Jones and Rebecca.Jane and Oliver are married and Rebecca is their daughter.
Now normally I love a Jodi Picoult book.
But this book just rubbed me the wrong way.
I feel like these characters contradicted themselves at every turn.
I love that she picks topics like abuse, cancer, murder, suicide, rape, and then gives them life, and gives all characters a voice and a chance to redeem themselves and tell their side.
But with this book, I feel that she didn't go far enough into the issue, or she didn't pay much attention to it as she wa developing the characters and just added it in as an after thought.
It bothered me that often times I felt like the dates/ages of people didn't match up.
Rebecca (the daughter) was 15 and Jane (the mother) was 35 in the book.
This means that Jane had Rebecca when she was 20.
Jane's age when she got married was never actually mention, but she started dating her husband at 15.
Later on in the book it says that Jane had Rebecca after she was married for a while, got her masters, etc.
As much as I just wanted to believe in love, the age differences of all the summer relationships bugged me.
I didn't know this was Jodi Picoult's first novel but it is very evident.
In knowing this I wish I would have read it first then I might have liked it more.
I made the mistake of reading this after I had already read My Sister's Keeper.
I was very upset with Jane for not knowing what she wants.
Joley gave off a weird vibe that he loved his sister in a very, very wrong way.
Rebecca's 'relationship' with Hadley was very hard to read.
It was an ok read.
I probably will never read it again.
A great disappointment compared to My Sister's Keeper!
Uma história que até é bastante interessante, mas que me aborreceu a sua leitura.
