https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334776.Memoirs_of_a_Fox_Hunting_Man
”My memory of that summer returns like a bee that comes buzzing into a quiet room where the curtains are drawn on a blazing hot afternoon.” Siegfried Sassoon by Glyn Warren PhilpotThe poet Siegfried Sassoon made the decision to write his memoirs as fiction, but as I read this book, it became readily apparent that whatever was fictionalized was a marginal part compared to the pages devoted to preserving his memories of England before the hell of world war changed things forever. George Sherston,
Siegfried Sassoon by Glyn Warren PhilpotThe poet Siegfried Sassoon made the decision to write his memoirs as fiction, but as I read this book, it became readily apparent that whatever was fictionalized was a marginal part compared to the pages devoted to preserving his memories of England before the hell of world war changed things forever.
There are reviewers/readers who find this section of the book tedious because they are unable to associate themselves with fox-hunting or cricket or a seemingly aimless life, but knowing what awaits Sassoon over the very next horizon certainly gives me perspective on why he wants to capture his memories of this time in print.
Instead we just have an uneasy sense that everything we read about has somehow been lost, and this gave the detailed explanations of fox hunting an interest that they wouldn't otherwise have had for me.I knew Sassoon as a war poet, of course, but this book showed me a completely new side to him – dry, witty, full of a kind of naïve and faux-pompous enthusiasm that allows for some admirable characterisations – of hens (‘the providers of that universally respected object, the egg’), for instance, or a local churchwarden (‘his impressive demeanour led us to suppose that, if he was not yet on hat-raising terms with the Almighty, he at any moment expected to be’).
Graves and Sassoon did fight and saw the chaos of war and the shattering of lives and they both went off on other tangents rather than embracing modernism.
Sassoon can also be self-critical; “The mental condition of a young man who asks nothing more of life than twelve hundred a year and four days a week with the Packlestone is perhaps not easy to defend”Not the attitude of someone longing for a lost past.This volume takes Sherston into the war years, through training and into France.
This is an interesting novel, not the simple evocation of a lost past that I was expecting; there is much more nuance and Sassoon was clearly expressing a good deal of ambivalence (sitting on the fence if I am being cynical).
The last portion of this book throws the first into stark relief. While I enjoyed the first section, it didn't grab me - it was a calm meandering from hunting meet to hunting meet, from a quiet life to brief flurries of activity on a horse. Nothing really happened, nothing changed.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
3 – 3.5 starsOn the one hand Siegfried Sassoon’s _The Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man_ (the first volume in a trilogy)can be seen as a paen to the idyllic way of life of a country gentleman before the war to end all wars destroyed any pretence to concepts of chivalry and gallant action.
The latter segments are likely where most reader’s main interest will lie (as well as in the next volume of the trilogy that makes up the memoirs of George Sherston’s experiences as an Infantry officer at the front) in order to get some insight into how a relatively feckless young man could grow into a soldier and leader in one of the most crushing episodes of the modern era.
Possessed of an inherited income that allowed him to avoid work, Sherston spends his winters fox hunting and his summers playing cricket, and very little else.
Probably there are quite a few people who will be put off reading this book by its title, but the author does not actually describe the death of any fox, and his motivation for hunting seems to be the companionship of like minded people and the opportunity for a good gallop around the countryside.
An early love of Sassoon's poetry (trench warfare poetry is as good for gothic teenage tastes as Sylvia Plath) led me to finally read this book, the first in the Sherston trilogy, a fictionalised trio of biographies written by Sassoon between the two world wars.It's a picture of the Edwardian world caught in aspic just before it fades - the troubles of the young George Sherston, standing in for Sassoon, are no more dire than finding good horseflesh, a well-made pair of riding boots, and enough money to hunt each season - something he can only manage by going into debt when he moves to a more toffy part of the country with his local Master of Hunt as a kind of assistant, and must hide the fact that although well educated, his yearly income is smaller than your average well-bred chappie.I expected to find the fox hunting part of the book dull and perhaps even offensive - it's a practice not to modern tastes for reasons of elitism and cruelty - but was surprised by how much I enjoyed it.
It is all here, told from the point of view of an over indulged spoilt young man whose life is one long round of hunting (of course) cross country riding, point to points, cricket, parties at great country houses, and honey for tea.
However a change was coming and the catalyst was the slaughterhouse now known as WW1, although at the time it was known as the 'Great War' of 'The War to end all Wars.' In essence, the privileged life narrated in the first part of this book is thrown into stark relief as the horrors of life in the trenches is described in equally vivid detail.
This is the most wonderful account of the innocence of youth I have ever read. The effervescence and evanescence of the enthusiasms of a young sports mad Englishman are portrayed with perfect tone, and make a shocking contrast to the gruesome realities of trench death ( I nearly said life), that follow.Pat Barker's 'Regeneration' trilogy closely follows some parts of Sassoon's life, and are very worth reading to understand the nature of the counselling process, if you are interested.
A matchless evocation of a graceful but vanished world..
The talk about foxhunting and all of the specificities of that sport were daunting in the beginning but they got me reading about foxhunting and the book easily gets the reader in without dwelling too much in the jargon.
There are beautiful passages on the English countryside and the reader surfs pleasantly throughout though each turn of the page harbors the dark anticipation of what is about to happen.
And so the war comes in late in the book; though the description of it is not gorey or repulsive, I'm glad it didn't receive much pages in this volume (there are 3 more).
It's not until Dixon arranges for young George to have a pony of his own that Sherston finds the great love of his life - horses.Sherston grows into a happy and bold young man, with a modest private income which enables him to scrape by without getting a job.
His life is filled with cricket in the summer and hunting in the winter, and the book is all about the colourful characters he meets and various amusing anecdotes.
When it comes, he is utterly unprepared.The fact that we have followed Sherston's whole life makes the war so much more shocking than if the book had begun in 1914.
Sassoon, and so many others and so much more, went over the cliff in World War One. It is the first of the three books known as the Sherston trilogy.
I am scraping the caked mud off my wire-torn puttees with a rusty entrenching tool.
The sound of the shell is like water trickling into a can.
One of our shrapnel shells, whizzing over to the enemy lines, bursts with a hollow crash.
Whether it has or whether it hasn't, I continue to scrape my puttees, and the weasel goes about his business."
It is amazing what books can do in your life, where they can take and how they can change the cause of your life.
It has reminded me of the days when I was in primary school and we had something called 'dictation'.Memoirs of a fox hunting man, written by Siegfried Sasssoon, is a book about the growing up.
He also decides to enlist into the army when he is at the rectory with his friend, Stephen.This book reminds me of other titles like 'the Folded leaf' and 'All creatures great and small'.
As for the author, I first heard of him from Pat Baker's book, the eye in the door.
I've always loved Sassoon's poetry and it's interesting to see the mind of a poet in prose.
This first volume of his semi-autobiographical works is somewhat rambling and (at least from my 21st century perspective) could have done with a bit of pruning.
This is definitely the work of a poet writing a memoir, not a novelist.
Still, it's fascinating to learn about what upper-class, rural, aristocratic British life was from an insider and I loved Sassoon's appreciation for all of his various horses, dotty relatives, and grooms who knew much more about horseflesh than the owners.
After reading Regeneration it is interesting to see Sassoon's life before the war along with the beginnings of his disillusionment with said war. However otherwise I found it somewhat tedious as unable (for various reasons) to identify with the character of Sherston - although the way he presents his life before the war is clearly to show how idle and aimless many people's lives were, to perhaps further express his contempt of civilians.
Mention Siegfried Sassoon to people and they'll either think 'war poet' or 'shampoo' depending on the type of people you burden with your literary conversations - but trust me, they should also think 'fantastic novelist' as this hidden gem is one of the most genuinely moving books i've ever read. It was so good that it almost made me think cricket wasn't just a silly game played by jolly old idiots. Almost.
An English classic, now somewhat out of fashion but a great source of both humour and pathos. Sassoon's anonymously-published "novel" is of course autobiographical, and we empathize with the lonely little boy as he grows into a hapless youth, eventually beginning to find himself as Britain heads towards the dark days of World War I.
Just read this one again - probably my favourite book of all time
On one level, it's a cashing-in on the fad for Bertie Woosterism in an age of declining private incomes, of demesnes being sold off for golf courses, manor houses boarded up, and of old soldiers plodding country lanes begging for scraps of work.George is an orphan, an only child, with a £600 per year trust fund, looked after by his Aunt Evelyn in the countryside of East Kent.
Despite such obstacles, the 'sport' or fox hunting spread rapidly round the country and society was saved.George Sherston is a fan of R.S. Surtees' nineteenth century hunting novels, and therefore the concentration of his memoir on riding to hounds – with only a side chapter devoted to cricket – sets it up as a comic novel modelled on the same.
Although I had some interest in Sassoon I put the book down when it was apparent the book was actually about fox hunting.
I recently read " Sherston's Progress by Sassoon.
It was such a good read I went back to Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man. Rarely has a book given such enjoyment.
He drifts into playing Cricket for his village and then to fox hunting.
Sassoon is an engaging personality.
He allows you to share his appreciation of the English country, horses, and the camaraderie of the fox hunt.
Sassoon makes friends in this sport and emerges from his callowness.
Four stars. This excellent volume is the first of three in Siegfried Sassoon's semi-autobiographical WWI trilogy The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston:  Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man ,  Memoirs of an Infantry Officer , and  Sherston's Progress . The quality of the writing and its authenticity motivate me to give this volume four stars.Volume one comprises Sherston's childhood, his development into a sportsman, and his first experiences in battle. It is essential that the whole trilogy be read;
This excellent volume is the first of three in Siegfried Sassoon's semi-autobiographical WWI trilogy The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston: 
. The quality of the writing and its authenticity motivate me to give this volume four stars.Volume one comprises Sherston's childhood, his development into a sportsman, and his first experiences in battle.
It is essential that the whole trilogy be read; otherwise the reader will not know who George Sherston is when he recounts his war experiences.
So far, I've never read a combat soldier's tale that glorifies war.
It becomes very clear, very early on, what Sigfried Sassoon is doing in "Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man." He takes great care (and 3/4 of the book) describing the idyllic life of a mid-level aristocratic boyhood, the countryside, and traditional British traditions.
Given what he knows is coming, each memory is rendered sharper by the slow march to war.
His development as a fox hunter was grooming him -though he didn't know it at the time- for life as a soldier.
At the same time, Sassoon shows us how the romantic conception of War is a despicable myth.
The title should have tipped me off but I didn't expect 250 pages of fox-hunting with little introspection or character depth to justify it or provide balance.
I enjoy slow character studies where not much happens, but there was so little of that here, I can't say I enjoyed it overmuch.
This novel is a man recounting details of hunts and races he experienced but if you haven't got a pre-formed interest in that or the idyllic yesteryear it represents, this novel has little to offer you.
I haven't read the next two in the trilogy but this first feels better suited to a beginning section in a single novel, heavily condensed.
I have an interest in WWI autobiographies, so picked this up.
It's the first of a trilogy, covering the prewar years and the beginning of Sasoon's service.
It's mostly about fox hunting, with a chapter at the end about the war.
My impressions: 1) Sasoon is an excellent writer.
I finished a book covering a subject that left me cold on the sheer strength of the prose.
2) Fox hunting is an incredible waste of time and money propped up by a vicious class system.
3) As a waste, fox hunting is only exceeded by war.Just ordered the second book in the trilogy.
Sassoon's upbringing as a young gentry wastrel concerned with becoming a "hail fellow, well met", cricket playing, fox hunting, rural blue blood even if of limited means comes to a screeching halt with the advent of World War I.
Lyrical account of the writer's life leading up to the first world war.A joy to read, though slightly Downton Abbey, but who wouldn't want to be financially secure and thus able to indulge one's hobbies eh old bean?
Sorry, really had to force myself through all those pages of "the hunt", egads. Picked up toward the end, and am looking forward to Memoirs of an Infantry Officer.
Could have been five stars really. A wonderful evocation of pre-WW1 upper middle class England, cut brutally short by the war, the war that changed society for ever.
2.5 stars
