https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21329.Fables_Vol_3
i always enjoy a good fairytale-based riff; familiar characters, unfamiliar storylines, and while i'm not in love with the artwork in this book, i really enjoyed the various tones of the tales - a little noir, a little crime/intrigue, some love, some murder, some talking animals, some goofiness - all over the map, but continuing to hold my interest.it's hard to review anthology graphic novels, especially this one, wherein many big things happen which i'm sure will have long-reaching consequences.
so instead, i will post my favorite panel from each of the stories and call it a day.thank you, kat, for this introduction into a new graphic novel world!Bag O'Bones
Bluebeard is trying to kill off Snow and Bigby.
This is the juicy stuff.
Bigby reveals that he has fallen for snow and they talk and you need to read it to see how good it is.
There is also a surprise at the end.
There is a bump at the end of the episode about the lilliputans and how they came to smalltown.
That was interesting and it makes me want to re-read Gulliver's Travels.This is solid storytelling and I am enjoying the retold myths.
There is a lot of stuff that works.
The characters spend most of their time explaining the plot, and the rest spouting movie cliches.They don't have much personality because all we know about them is what we're told in the wordy exposition of other characters.
That's what drives me crazy about this comic: it's not realistic enough to be sympathetic, nor is it ridiculous enough to be entertaining.Later on, as two characters find themselves driving out of control down a tree-covered cliff, one of them remarks, mid-plummet "Try to avoid hitting the trees head on, but use contact with them to slow us down!" Even a character who was the picture of grace-under-pressure would phrase that with more 'oomph'.
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. Now that I have read this volume, I could actually change the rating I gave to the first two, in comparison.Storybook Love is a very good collection of stories - it includes all of the characters we know and like, who, while being the power that moves the story, are not the story, and all those that we don't like, but might very soon.I really enjoyed having a lot of the characters that weren't shown nearly as much in the previous volumes, or even the on
We are all aware that the main story is the one in the present, but considering that there are many different versions of all fables, many fable characters included in Fables, a lot happening all the time, and the readers needing background information about the impending war, it's great that Willingham is actually providing that information...
"She's such an ice queen.""Ice cream? Yum."As this series goes on, I'm shipping Bigby and Snow together more and more. Also, Briar Rose's curse/enchantment is wicked cool.3.5
I really enjoyed the first two Fables volumes, but god, this one bored me to tears.
I skimmed massive chunks of it because I just couldn't get into the story of it at all.
It was nice to finally see some of the predictability of Bigby and Snow's interactions come to fruition, but otherwise, I was not a huge fan of this volume.
The art changed every so often, and one of the illustrators was not my cup of tea at all - I honestly could barely even recognize the horrific features given to Bigby for that section of the volume.Meh. I have volume 4 checked out from the library anyways, so I'll give it a try and see if I want to continue the series.
Fables Volume 3 is the precise definition of what a graphic novel should be in my eyes.
And I use graphic novel in distinct difference to the concept of a comic book.
In this particular novel several references are made to previous fairytale lives of the characters (very much in a similar vein of thought to Once Upon a Time - something I've also enjoyed) but most of the action takes place in the world of Fabletown.
I mean they call themselves the world's best journalists and Superman's under their eyes?
While I found some parts of this book quite graphic and disturbingly violent, it fits in with the storyline and the series and the grim kind of world of fairy tales, and the situations that the characters find themselves in.I never did like Bluebeard.
My fingers are crossed that the forthcoming stories don't take their courtship into the dumpster, especially after the interesting conclusion in this volume.I remembered why I didn't give this a higher rating.
I didn't like Jack's parts as much, although they were good folktale stories.
Jack is a rascal and not in a good way.
I'm really fond of Snow and Bigby now. I recall finding Snow a bit stiff in volume one but she's pretty cool now. I also liked the return of Bluebeard and Goldilocks. I'm curious to see what other fables and characters are included in this series!
Hikaye biraz daha dallanmaya başladı. Ben beğeniyorum bu seriyi.
I also really like the relationships that we're starting to see develop between some of the different main characters and I am looking forward to these progressing as the story goes on.This mostly focuses on the ongoing conflict between Bigby, Snow White and Bluebeard and when a Mundy (normal human) starts to ask questions about Fabletown and the people who live there the three of them, and some of the other Fables, have to do some quick thinking to sort out the issue.
The final tale is the story of how the Lilliputians were able to leave Fableland and settle in our world and the adventures they had trying to find mates with the help of John Barleycorn.As per usual, this was a creative and very entertaining volume.
For the most part the art is very good, though the final two stories aren't perhaps the best.
fables continues to amuse and entertain.
I am glad I have continued with this series and if you read them you will be as well.
Highly recommend to anyone who grew up reading fables and had their favorite characters.
I need the next one now now now now
I really enjoyed this one and liked it much more than the other two I read. I got to see more of Bigby who is starting to be my favorite character. I can definitely see each volume getting better and better. Great series!
With it all starting with a huge chase, a bunch of brutal and fucked up fights, and a ending that leaves this series up to a lot of possibilities.
Oh also there's a little story at the end of the book.
Art is once again great, and the pacing is the best the series has had so far.
Just a side story that ends in a "meh" way that let me down compared to the rest.
I'd go with a 4 out of 5 on this one because for the most part it's great except that side story.
Pretty good, the story was a little more interesting than the previous two volumes. I loved Bluebeard and Prince Charming's duel and the development between Snow and Bigby. The world and the various characters were again the most enjoyable aspects. Looking forward to the next one.
I enjoyed the first two volumes but not so much this one. It was a bit too disjointed, I've never particularly liked the art, and I don't think I care enough about the characters to want to read more. The idea was great at first but the novelty has worn off for me now.
Because I mean this was better than the last volume but honestly I'm just bored most of the time because I don't like most of the characters [or at least most of the characters that the author actually focuses on].
Anyway, I liked the side issues about Jack and then the ones with the 'vampires' more than the actual plot issues this time around.
Not sure what that says about my future with this series in general but I'd like to at least get up to the point where Jack of Fables branches off before jumping ship again lol [I'm doing okay, last time I didn't get past volume 1!]
The Good: A couple of really interesting story lines going on, with the four separate stories told as a collection instead of an ongoing story.
I always love Bigby and Snow working together and this volume spends some real quality time with them.
We get to see a lot of Bluebird, and while not a fun character to follow, it certainly is revealing.
Both Jack's and the Lilliputians' stories are flashbacks, giving a great look at the histories of these characters.The Bad: There seems to be a sad case of "one step forward, two steps back" going on here that I rather wish the author had decided against.
It wasn't as good as the first two (maybe because I haven't read fables for quite some time!) for some reason I read graphic novels either at the beginning of the year, or the end (or both) but not in the middle. I'm not sure why though. Just like many things in life it doesn't actually make sense.But well, I did remember the Fable world now, so who knows maybe it is time to catch up and keep up with the adventures of these fairytale characters. There are still a lot of volumes, so let's do this!
2.5 stars Didn't really like this volume but I liked some of the twists. Will continue with the series.
Kısa kısa hikayelerin olduğu bir ciltti. Özellikle Ölüm ve Jack olanı sevdim. Ayrıca Arpa Kızlarla ilgili olan da güzeldi.
Comic Review Fable #10-15Visual Design, Art, Drawing - 8/10Storyline - 8/10Characters- 7/10Rating - 4/5P.S. - Especially liked Jack's Tale. (5/5)
I mean, it's still not perfect, the dialogue is a bit heavy-handed at places, but the story and the pacing are finally good enough for me to get interested in the series.
He is a great artist, it's just that his work on Fables feels restrained, like they don't let him experiment more with layouts and scale.
Like, look at his Miracleman with Gaiman — there are some hands-down gorgeous images there.
Oh well, it's just the start of the series anyway, so the creators probably evolve even more in later books, and now that I'm committed to at least a couple more volumes of Fables, I hope I will get to see that.
Another volume down... another volume to go.This one was interesting and very good.Prince Charming sure is a modern day gigolo.The part where Pinocchio was used for kiddie porn was AWESOME!Can't get enough of that character. Never gonna look at him the same.Plus Snow White's in a bit of "trouble" as they say it!On to #5...
Good. Except for the horrifying murder of a cute animal type Fable.
I'll just say that I loved creator Bill Willingham's writing in this story.The next 2 issues contain a caper scenario reminiscent of movies Ocean's Eleven.
This little 2 issue story is my second favorite arc in the series so far.
That is the highest writing score one of these books has gotten so far.Bryan Talbot starts off the volume with the art for the issue about Jack.
Lan Medina, the artist from volume 1, returns to draw the 2 issue caper story.
He has the worst art in the book and gets to draw the most issues.
Bigby gets a crew together to neutralize the mundy and, in the process, makes an enemy of Bluebeard.The second part results from Blackbeard's beef with Bigby, and he enchants Bigby and Snow White and sends them into the Cascade Mountains to be assassinated by Goldilocks, who's on the lam for her part in the insurrection we saw in Animal Farm.
For example, Prince Charming begins spying on Bluebeard and discovers that he's plotting to kill Bigby and Snow.
What authority does he even have to put them on the case?And the whole thing of Bluebeard enchanting Bigby and Snow to get them out camping in the Cascades seemed just a bit lazy to me.
With every volume I read of Fables my expectations go up and with every volume my expectations are surpassed.I love this.We get a pretty long storyline that involves Bigby and Snow White with some major surprises (no spoilers here).
Some minor plotlines around some fables from the Farm that shouldn't be in NYC.The only downside anywhere to be found was switching out the artists in the last issue.
Linda Medley is a great artist but her art changes the tone set by the dazzling work of Mark Buckingham.
Three volumes in, I'm beginning to feel like Fables is a fun series of escapist fiction, but doesn't seem to offer much more than that.
In Volume Three: Storybook Love, we are given a couple of single issue stories that show us a bit more of the history behind certain characters, Jack's schemes during the American Civil War, and the legends that are told among the fables themselves.
Other stories in this volume involve a caper plot against a journalist who believes he has uncovered the fables secret, the return of Goldilocks as part of a Bluebeard plot against Snow & Bigby, enchanted into spending time camping together, and Prince Charming reveals his more dastardly conniving side.
