https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2425699.Lucifer_s_Court
Esse homem é extraordinário, em termos de Raiders of the Lost Ark, ele é a união de Indiana, Beloq e Toth, soma-se a isso The Last Crusade, tudo ao mesmo tempo. Suicídio na Áustria? Uma pinóia. Rá!
Libro estraordinario y minoritario. Describe el viaje de Otto Rahn a aquellos pueblos y ciudades europeas en las que la herejía cátara fue guia y sendero para miles de personas Particularmente interesantes para mi como español catalán las menciones a Don Quijote, Ignacio de Loyola, Germana de Foix y Valencia, Montserrat...Libro importántisimo por diversas razones. Absolutamente imprescindible y, para mi, de cabecera
At certain points, however, when the conversation moved from Pagans to heretics I felt the author went to extremes to include such heretics in what he called "Lucifer's Court" instead of perhaps recognizing that they were very likely not Luciferians (or whichever of the other such terms he applied to them) but rather Christians or non-religious people that got caught up in or fell victim to the politics of the time.Likewise, some great leaps are made to include other figures from mythology and folklore in with Lucifer.
1936, un gran año para buscar el grial por los pirineos.
Otto Rahn searches for his ancestors, the Cathars, and during the journey adopts his perception of their version of the faith.
He makes odd connections, some far-fetched, some completely sensible, as he travels through Europe in search for the Grail - or the stone that fell from Lucifer's crown.I believe the people who say that the antisemitic statements in this book were not from the author, but added by the publisher.
Rahn's voice is quite naive.
He's a thinker, not a writer, and his journal entries are no great literary feats.The translator notes are quite amusing, with opinions of their own and added information that sometimes makes no sense to me.
This book is a good addition to any collection of Holy Grail studies. Rahn traces the lineage of the Cathars and their connection to a Gnostic interpretation of early Christianity. In this book, one more clearly can see the connection between the bright and morning star and Jesus, the light-bringer.
One of the most beautiful and inspiring, poetic books I have read in a long time.
"We are a people of Nordic blood who call ourselves Cathars, just as an Oriental people of Nordic blood call themselves Farsi 'pure ones'. You can understand me, or is your blood also impure?"
This is a travelogue of Rahn's trips from France to the Arctic in search of knowledge and the Holy Grail.
An author must write for his audience and Rahn was questing under the auspices of the SS and Himmler.
Was he writing what they wanted to hear or did he find something?
There is some small doubt as to whether he committed suicide, was murdered, or just disappeared and managed to continue his search.
Fact or fiction this was a great book.
It lays the groundwork for such books as Holy Blood, Holy Grail and The Davinci Code.
A wonderful book from which I've learned everything that was left out of school history books - and definietly far more interesting! I really liked how Medieval history - in particular, history of heretics and inquisition - is introduced through the eyes of a true "heretic", in the concept of beliefs and mythology. This book is definietly a must-read for all the enlightened and pure. I wish I could have read it in original German, though, but I don't understand German.
Fascinating book and very interesting concepts. Otto Rahn was a truly fascinating individual - a real life Indianna Jones and this book is essential reading for anyone interested in the Rennes Le Chateau mystery, though this is never directly referred to in the text. Good historical tales of the Cathars etc.
Son de esos pocos libros, que con el paso de cada capítulo te hace reflexionar, tener otra perspectiva del mundo y, te da el poder de entender que ciertas cosas y/o entidades no son lo que parecen. Reflexiono.
pretty intense and factual acount of Catharism lots of speculation but i think it really well researched
es muy interesante, un vista a la agresividad de la iglesia en ese tiempo,te envuelve desde el primer momento que lo lees
It's about time someone translated this tour diary of a german, SS heritic.
