https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7512.The_Beach_House
(Originally published in 2002)I fell in love with Mary Alice Monroe’s ‘Lowcountry series’, and couldn’t wait to read more of her books.
This story centers around Caretta Rutledge, a high powered, fiercely independent, career woman, who receives a phone call from her mother asking her to return home, just as her well-orchestrated life goes belly up.
Cara represents the strong, independent woman who saw her mother’s life for what it was and knew she had to escape, thus breaking a chain, that may have continued for generations.
This was a great summer beach read. An endearing story about relationships and letting the past go. There were a few times I had to wipe away the tears. Great cast of characters and I loved the beachy flair of the book and turtle facts! Highly recommend!

The Beach House is a magical feel-good South Carolina Lowcountry novel, the first in a series.💛 I read book #4 last summer and was surprised to see this is a series, I loved it and knew I had to read them all!Daughter Caretta, Chicago IL is requested to come home to her mama Lovie’s beach house on Isle of Palms SC.
Lovey needed to become close to her daughter again as a mother and child should be, as she’s made important changes to her will and needs to divulge a few important secrets she’s kept for decades.
She feels it’s time has come to reach out to her daughter and release them before it’s too late.
Loggerheads, Barrier Islands, and family secrets all collide in this novel.This is my first by Mary Alice Monroe, and I wasn't disappointed.
Had all the good makings of a great novel, however didn't quite come together perfectly for me.
A little too much jargon got in the way, along with trying to throw way too many things into one book.
Betrayal, family rivalry, abuse, a teenage pregnancy, saving seaturtles, romance, and to top it all off add in a hurricane!Caretta Rutledge comes home to Isle of Palms in small town South Carolina to help clean out some items with her mother.
This novel was so predictable that I anticipated every twist by the end of the first chapter. Not only was the story line predictable, but also the character roles, the description of setting, the use of weather in the story, the tenor of the dialogue, etc. This was an easy to read story of family reconciliation perfect for the Lifetime Channel.
It gives the story of three women and the memorable summer they share together.
Set in lovely Charleston, SC with the main story unfolding on the Isle of Palms, the author’s descriptive details easily pulls the reader into this journey, making this barrier island and its inhabitants come alive.
Forty year old Caretta has been estranged from her family for years.
Her mother Olivia, aka Lovie, is thankful and hopeful for the chance to spend this final summer with her daughter, Caretta.
Having spent many summers on this beach, I was drawn to the book mainly for the setting.
A perfect summer beach read exploring the tenuous bonds between a mother and daughter and the opportunity for renewal.
In THE BEACH HOUSE each chapter enjoyable alternates perspective between Cara and her mother, Olivia.
Olivia is known as the “turtle lady” on Isle of Palms because of her dedication to the loggerhead turtle nests she protects on the beach.
I loved this parallel, and the way the loggerhead turtles were also such an prominent part of the renewal between Cara and her mother, as well as the rest of the family.
Cara is strong and independent while her mom lived her entire life with a man controlling her every decision.
Although I started out thinking the writing was a bit corny at times, I give it 5 stars for all the wonderful, clever and moving analogies between women/life and loggerhead turtles and their amazing life cycle.
It was fitting that the first part to move me to tears, about motherhood, I read on Mother's Day on a plane headed back to where I was hatched.
That was about 20% into it, and the story only got better and better from there, winning my hanky rating with a predictable but beautiful and thoroughly enjoyable ending.
I hoped to enjoy this book, especially since I previously lived in Charleston, SC -- and, I did.
(I'm not keen on reading about teenage love!)The book was not a 4 or 5 for me because of the lack of oomph with the characters.
This is the type of book to enjoy, smile a few smiles while reading, and then pass on to someone else as an easy reach.
It was not a brain-twister; I had no problem following the story.I enjoyed the way the details of the loggerhead turtles were woven in to the story.
I definitely felt like I learned something about loggerhead turtles.
Loaned to me by a friend, who is anxious for me to read Mary Alice Monroe's books.This was a very good novel about a prestigious Lowcountry South Carolina family. It contains numerous references to loggerhead turtles and their nesting habits on Isle of Palms, where the author is a member of the Turtle Team, just as her main characters were. While I do not normally like these "family sagas," I quickly became engrossed in the lives of the family and their friends and was pleased that it ended exactly as it should have. Very enjoyable.
It was fluff, it was predictable, it was unrealistic, it was sappy. But it was also an easy read, an eye rolling read, yet an amusing read, and I have to admit I loved the bits at the beginning of each chapter about the loggerhead turtles. So it earns an extra star for the turtles! Two stars for the story, one bonus star for the turtles.
Looking at it, I would have assumed it was a generic romance novel like many of the other books on the shelves at my club.
I might say to a friend, "you know how I am about maple doughnuts", and she does.
But I don't explain to her how I am about maple doughnuts -- she knows!
Although I wondered often how the daughter was paying bills and what she was doing for money, her "transformation" from high-powered city career woman to turtle lady was for the most part very believeable.I also liked the unwed mother's character.
The Beach House is a story that evoked a multitude of emotions in me.
After finishing the book, I told them that even though I don't ask much from them, I am asking them to please read The Beach House.
Monroe manages to artfully interject those moments which can only be described or labeled as "morals to the story", but these never sound preachy.
I started this story thinking it would be a light, summer read, but surprisingly found it deep and meaningful, something to "sink your teeth into".
And I am grateful to have shared in the experience Mary Alice Monroe has given me.
After losing her high-powered advertising job in Chicago, Caretta Rutledge grudgingly returns to her low-country home at her mother's behest.
Cara has long resented her mother, who focused her maternal efforts more on looking after the annual loggerhead turtle spawn than on protecting herself and her children from their abusive father.
But when Cara learns that her mother is ill, she must lay her bitterness aside and try to make amends.
Cara starts by restoring her mother's small beach house and joining the same turtle brigade she resented while growing up.
What a nice sweet beach read. Wonderful story about love and forgiveness.
I read this many years ago and somehow missed entering it into my reading journal. I am so glad I forgot to log it in, because most likely I would not have picked it up for a reread. Don't let the cover or the genre (women's fiction / chick lit) fool you. This is not a fluff read. I absolutely loved it! What a gem!
and this was another of her fine books.It is a rich, sweet story with warmth and a lovely link to the cycles of nature and sea turtles.Cara return home to the island and her mother's house after 22 years of living independently, having a successful career - back to her family's 1930s beach cottage.
Cara forges new bonds with her mother and with her mother's special cause - saving the sea turtles on the Isle of Palms.
There are great turtle facts in the book ...
I loved this book, one of my favorites that my friends and I still talk about and its been years since I've read it!
Any title or book cover about summer beach days has me captivated. How many love the beach where every sense is enhanced. Mary Alice Monroe's The Beach House fulfilled my desire to be at the beach. Her writing was descriptive and easily predictable. The characters were well developed and likeable. The issues presented were numerous but not overwhelming. The information about the loggerhead turtles blended so well with the plot."The secret of a Southern woman: strength, resilience and beauty." All of Monroe's ladies demonstrated these virtues, especially in the conclusion.
The Beach House is my first Mary Alice Monroe book and I loved it!!! Cara Rutledge comes back to her home after being fired from her high-level advertising job in Chicago. Her mother, Olivia, is totally involved in the nesting of the loggerhead sea turtles but welcomes her daughter back home. Olivia is dying and the summer becomes one of bittersweet healing for both women. This will be a book that will stay with me for a long time.Go Cards! L1C4!!
Having just received a letter from her mother, asking her to come home, she flees, leaving her laptop and cellphone behind, to the old family beach house on the Isle of Palms.Caretta's mother, Olivia or Lovie, who named her daughter for the loggerhead turtles (Caretta caretta)that she cherishes, is dying of cancer -- a fact Caretta doesn't learn until midway in the book.
Caretta and Toy have momentous decisions to make, and Lovie, determined to live fully until her last breath, also needs to mend the long estrangement between her and her daughter.
Does anybody know real women who do things like this?There is ZERO discussion of how Caretta will make a living...or IF she will decide to stop working and raise a family (which means this character just got a personality transplant that is never explained).
Toy.Cara (Caretta's nickname) and her mom, Lovie, both, it seems, have zero knowledge of how NOT to talk to abused women.
This is Charleston!!--the treatment of the angry abusive/alcoholic son is not fully developed--why do mom and Cara not call him to account?This is worth a read.
But an unusual request from her mother -- coming just as her own life is spinning out of control -- has Cara heading back to the scenic Lowcountry of her childhood summers.
But it is in reconnecting with her mother that she will learn life's most precious lessons -- true love involves sacrifice, family is forever and the mistakes of the past can be forgiven.
I won't say my life is better having read this book, but it certainly isn't any worse.
And, of course, coming from a family of people who rescue them ourselves, I loved the turtles.
This is an enjoyable book set in the city of Charleston and the neighboring South Carolina low-country beach town of Isle of Palms.
I especially liked the role that nature played in the novel, as the reader learns much about the biology of the loggerhead turtles that nest on warm South Carolina beaches.
I felt that this interweaving of the turtle life cycle into the plot of the book elevated it beyond the typical “beach read.” Yet, it was also well written and full of the watery imagery of a summer spent at a beach cottage that makes these kinds of books so appealing.
One of my favorite kinds of books.
It's southern in flavor, set in one of my favorite settings, the South Carolina coastal low country on the Barrier Island of Isle of Palms and Charleston.
Its also all about relationships, between mothers and children, men and women, women and women and between people and certain places.
There was shag dancing/music, loggerhead turtle nests and a hurricane!
I cried at the end and can't wait to read the next in this series.
In fact I can't wait to read the rest of this author's back list of books.
Totally engrossing, enjoyable read.
Great beach read! If you're packing your towels and swimsuits, add this to the list - or, if you're staying at home, grab a glass of lemonade and sit down to read. This novel takes place on Isle of Palms, SC - outside of Charleston. If you've visited the Lowcountry, this book will take you right back. Loved the descriptions and the complexity of the mother daughter relationship. Well done.
This book warmed, touched and broke my heart. The relationship between mother and daughter struck such a chord with me and my own relationship with my mother. The story was lovely. The setting was lovely and made me long for the sand and sea. I learned about the loggerheads and found myself fascinated by them. I would recommend this to anyone with a love of nature, romance and family.
This is a story about "going home". (Yes you can go home again.) It is also about mending relationships, forgiveness, love and new beginnings. Set on the coast of North Carolina. It's a GOODREAD.
a treasure of a summer read!
