https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1840511.Snuff
Please stop writing, Mr. Palahniuk.
That's about as hard as it seems Palahniuk tried to make this book any good.
What a fucking letdown.I guess you could call this a spoiler, but probably everyone who cares already knows that the plot here is that Cassie Wright is setting a porn world record by getting fucked by 600 guys in a row.
She basically never talks, and Chuck misses a chance to actually say something, make some kind of statement about the kind of woman who would get banged by 600 guys.
And look, I love a good porn pun, but that is not enough, Mr. Palahniuk, to use as the backbone of an entire novel.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Six hundred dudes. One porn queen. A world record for the ages. A must-have movie for every discerning collector of things erotic. Didn’t one of us on purpose set out to make a snuff movie.”  You’re probably reading a Chuck Palahniuk sex story.The premise of Snuff is simple enough – a world record is about to broken. This is the story of a day in the life of 600 dudes, including an aging porn star . . .  a boy with a secret . . .  an
Didn’t one of us on purpose set out to make a snuff movie.”
You’re probably reading a Chuck Palahniuk sex story.The premise of Snuff is simple enough – a world record is about to broken.
This is the story of a day in the life of 600 dudes, including an aging porn star .
Each of these shank-shuckers/baby-barfers/tadpole-tossers or whatever you want to call them anxiously awaits their turn at a bang session with the queen of the adult film scene, Cassie Wright.
Okay, HUGE secrets .
If you have nothing better to do and want to say you read something by Palahniuk since he’s soooooo edgy, don’t let this review stop you.

There's the signature Palahniuk twist and shocking ending, only this one is more befitting an episode of Columbo than it is a novel from the writer of such mind-blowingly original shit as Invisible Monsters and Choke.
Snuff reads as if Chuck Palahniuk simply wanted to see how many faux-adult-film parodies he could title before the end of the book.
I think I laughed once, and that was because I couldn't believe how it ended.
Not because I was shocked but because I couldn't believe that THAT was supposed to be the twist.
I don't talk about Chuck Palahniuk enough, but the guy's one of my literary heroes.
Read in an attempt to understand. Wasn't successful.
One is, I keep reading good books, and all those four- and five-star reads have me worried that something might be wrong, that my judgement is off, so I decided to read something bad to compensate.
This book is bad and all the others I read so far this year were pretty good.
Thanks, Chuck!Two is, something about this book has been bothering me since the first time I read it, years ago.
That's how a day like this, how it feels to keep secret.(Snuff, page 4...AND page 187) And what I want to know is, WHO THE FUCK WIPES BACK TO FRONT?I mean, aside from Chucky P., apparently.
Her comments did, however, give me pause as I opened up this new Palahniuk delight about an aging pornography queen set to beat the world record for sex acts taped for a movie (600 men/600 sex acts).
Given the title and a very early tip from one of our narrators (Palahniuk's at his stylistic wheel of fortune again, this time giving us first person narration from four different characters' p.o.v.'s) I knew that the film Cassie Wright, our porn queen, was making would eventually turn out as a snuff film.
Pick it up, be totally aware of the subject matter and don't be shocked to read about sex acts, sex toys, and sex performers in graphic-traffic detail.
Cassie Wright is an aging porn star who is trying to set a world record for having sex with 600 dudes in one film, an act that everyone seems to think will kill her.
And if this all sounds like a great big ol' wet, hot mess, then that's because it is.I'm honestly not really sure what Palahniuk was trying to accomplish with this book.
I feel icky.Chuck Palahniuk's take on the porn industry blows wades of sex euphemisms all over the reader like moneyshots at a gangbang.
Like moths to light, certain kinds of people seem drawn to join the porn industry.
But Palahniuk casts about too far in piling on the shocking examples of movie industry mishaps, which drift so far from the point as to nearly devolve into the sort of sensationalistic headlines found on the cover of gossip mags in the counter aisle.
This was too filthy, even by my standards. But somehow, the copy I have was signed by Chuck Palahniuk so it is a book I will never get rid of.
Those who have never read a Chuck Palahniuk novel will probably not enjoy the story or the way it is presented while others may be drawn to the subject matter alone.
It certainly does not take away from the aesthetic feel but it may come as a surprise to some when they first begin reading though it is not immediately noticeable.Overall, Snuff is not a bad story at all, Chuck has just put himself in a bad spot with his previous novels.
Every single character in the book seems to be a walking trivia machine and though that may be synonymous to Palahniuk's style, it just detracts from the authenticity of the story.
This is the second worst book I have ever read.
This guy has no concept on how to write a good sentence.
I don't know how he sells books.
The only redeeming thing I got from his crappy unintelligent lecture and this stupid book (and I like porn) is that if he can do it so can I.
He quoted The Hardy Boys or something similar but not as good.
And this being my introduction to his writing does not make me want to waste any time picking up any other book of his.
It would take a special kind of writer to do porn (or hang around porn stars or watch endless amount of porn) for a couple of years and then write about it.Approximately ten years ago, David Foster Wallace wrote an essay ("Big Red Son," which can be found in his book of essays Consider the Lobster) about the porn industry after he attended the annual Adult Video News Awards (the Academy Awards of porn).
David Foster Wallace was every bit as edgy, unique, and brave as Chuck Palahniuk, but he was so much more.
I'm probably going a bit too far here given that I've only read one of Palahniuk's books, but Chuck seems like a guy with no interest in peeling back the layers.
So far it's not the sex that's making me queasy and itchy as much as the gleefully elaborate descriptions of all the various stains, smears, smudges, dribbles, crumbs and residues that the characters in this book seem to leave on every surface that they come into contact with.
In addition to putting you off sex and flavored potato chips, this book has the power to turn anyone into a germophobe.Now that I finished it I can only add that it ends up feeling more like a long short-story than a full-blown (snicker) novel, and the big twist ending was barely worth the trip.
Don't watch porn. Read Palahniuk. It's filthier, you'll see. Filthier but brilliant. True fact.
Di questo "Gang bang" mi aveva colpito la storia, decisamente stramba e non convenzionale, letta sulla quarta di copertina.Una porn-star, alla fine della sua "carriera", decide di battere il record di "gang bang" (in italiano ammucchiata), ossia di far sesso davanti alle telecamere con 600 (!!) uomini in una sola giornata.
L'attenzione è concentrata sulle ambizioni, le ossessioni e le paure dei vari protagonisti; il set diventa una metafora del nostro mondo violento, perverso, costituito da arrivisti che badano solo ad apparire, attenti solamente al successo ed al denaro e dove è sufficiente un errore per compromettere tutto quanto fatto di buono in precedenza."Non importa quanto lavori duro, o quanto diventi in gamba.
It's really an embarrassment to the literary world and I personally didn't enjoy questioning why I bother to read.Now, I might have felt a bit different about this book had it created some sort of awareness to the realities of the porn industry.
Maybe this is a usual thing for Palahniuk or his signature or something but I really was underwhelmed with the writing from a man I have heard so much about,This is a completely sorry excuse for a plot.
I've never read a Palahniuk book before.
Aceste numere reprezintă niște bărbați veniți pentru filmarea celui mai legendar film porno din istorie, în care Cassie Wright face sex cu 600 de bărbați într-o singură zi, fără pauză.
Ideea e următoarea: numărul 600 are o pastilă cu cianură la el, pe care vrea să i-o ofere lui Cassie întrucât e sigur că filmul realizat în acea zi va fi un snuff - adică un film ce conține o moarte reală a cuiva.
Moare într-adevăr Cassie, după ce face sex cu 600 de bărbați?Cartea asta e plină de plot twist-uri și mi s-a părut foarte comică.
As a Chuck Palahniuk fan, I was disappointed.
Dark humor, gross material, oddball characters, and plenty of plot twists, but it's a let down after the superior Haunted and Rant.It's very short.
And after the mind bending sci-fi of Rant, it seems like a far less ambitious novel.
It's not bad, but it reads like something that Palahniuk did as a side project while working on something bigger and better.Save your money and get it from the library or wait for the paperback.
Fans of Chuck will find it worth reading, but it's not worth the full hardback price at less than 200 pages.
And the ending definitely came as a surprise to me.The book is full of odd trivia facts.
Finally, some of the reviews I've read seem to take issue about the fact that the author shows only the tarnish of the porn industry, not the glamour.A few years ago, I worked with people who also did porn part time.
The suicides, disease, and drugs that the characters speak about are all a very real part of the industry.Snuff gives you an unvarnished look at an industry most people don't know much about.
Five stars, because it gives you everything you'd want in a Palahniuk book.
If you click through to the Amazon page for this book you can see the horrible cover for this novel.
Straight out of the 1970s, like some Harold Robbins horror.
outlaw this branch of the pornographic industry ("Sex is the new spectator sport, and like all sports its becoming increasingly user-friendly, interactive, extreme, in your face: like this guy who jumped ahead in line.
I don't even need to look him in the face, he's been here before.
I give it, like, two seconds thought, tops.
Awww too bad, I really loved Fight club and I was really looking forward to find some grit in this novel, sadly all I’ve read were a parody of porn titles and porn slangs that made me uncomfortable but I must say that it’s a bold move for Chuck Palahniuk to write a novel about Porn.
To write about how the porn industry works and as to why it never gets old, in fact it’s a growing industry.
Chuck had the right elements to make this novel work but disappointingly his execution fell short of what I was hoping for and focused more on making sure he had enough porn titles we should know about… Chuck I get it okay!?!
Mé úplně první setkání s Palahniukem (tedy krom zfilmovaného Klubu rváčů).
Ale zas ne taková, jakou bychom v knize o pornu čekali.Příběh se odehrává jen na jednom místě a to na "place", kde se pornohvězda Cassie Wrightová snaží překonat rekord v počtu souloží, který před ní vytvořila Annabel Chong.
Muž číslo 72, odložený syn, toužící po setkání s matkou.
Číslo 137, stále se dopující viagrou a toužící po tom vzít si Cassie.
Číslo 600, bývalá slavná pornohvězda, která s Cassie natočila už spoustu scén.
Takže ano, díky této knize mé první setkání s Palahniukem rozhodně nebylo poslední!
This one is about as palatable as purple buttercream veins on a Devils food cake erection.Everybody loves Cassie.
Who wouldn’t love the star of movie mega hits such as Good Will Humping and Emergency Room Backdoor Dog Pile?
Plus, 600 dudes later, she is about to make a world record for the ages.
The problem is, it just may kill her.
That’s the plan anyway.First off, I like Palahniuk…usually.
Nothing either character or plot wise really stood out like it should have given the subject matter.
2.5 Stars
-Escándalo de salón, provocación de andar por casa.-Género. Novela.Lo que nos cuenta. Cassie Wright, veterana actriz porno, quiere batir el record de compañeros sexuales ante la cámara usando a 600 hombres para filmar una película. Tres de los caballeros y la secretaria personal de Cassie serán los puntos de vista narrativos del evento.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com....
I think everyone knows what 'snuff' means, right?It is not Mr. P's best book but it's still mightily entertaining and it gives us a better understanding on the creation and history of porn, it's a fun read. I own this book and I wish to re-read it ASAP.a review which lists the funny *fake* titles of porn. Wow, 'The Postman Always Cums Twice'? Really? https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
You read enough Chuck and it all starts to feel like a formula.
Chooses edgy subject matter, highlights contradictions inherent in contemporary life and capitalism, digresses every 8 pages into pop culture and science trivia that no one knows, ...
it just starts to feel more like a schtick from which he's squeezed every last bit of literary juice.
If you haven't read much of his work, you might get a kick out of most of this, but it starts to wear thin after a while despite a lot of humor, pathos, and poignant social commentary.
I'm not going to be a hypocrite, the book kept me turning the pages, I was as interested as I was shocked that I'm actually reading such a book.
I found myself 40-50 pages in without noticing the different themes(like Sheila's story, followed by "True fact").HomosexualismSince I don't have the habit of reading trivia about authors, I'm not aware of Palahniuk's sexual orientation or whether he was molested as a child or something of the sort, but homosexuals, molested as children, keep popping up in his books.
En Snuff hace un retrato muy interesante de la industria del porno.
Lo que más me gustó del libro es que te hace relativizar el lado obsceno de la pornografía, mostrándote ejemplos del cine tradicional, casos en los que los actores llegan a extremos mucho peores en aras del glamour.
La parte que no me sedujo tanto es que los personajes hablan todos igual, todos parecen enciclopedias andantes del porno, de una manera que no es del todo creíble.
No todos los libros de Palahniuk funcionan, y su estilo me puede gustar más o menos, pero me encantan las reflexiones a las que me hace llegar.
