https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153426.The_Passion_According_to_G_H_
Clarice Lispector, you daring, independent soul, you brilliant thinker, you wild, wild woman!
A woman in a clean, almost sterile room encounters and injures a roach, and engages in an inner monologue about the meaning(lessness) of life.
The goal is “deheroization” of the self until she has no name, except for the general identity marker “I”.“The world independed on me … ““And so I adore it.”Rarely have I encountered a writer who dares to write internal truth in the same direct and honest way.
The Passion According to G.H. is a difficult book to talk about—in part because it attempts to say the unsayable—so I'm going to talk about it in a very roundabout, personal way.
And what 'it' was was this: I remembered experiencing the world suddenly as objects without meaning or context.
How strange (and perhaps even frightening) these shapes become when you don't know their 'intentions.' And this is what I remembered when I was standing in the living room, with my mother and my sister on either side and Wink Martindale in front of me.
I'm not even sure what the hell it was that I just read, but it was undoubtedly the work of a genius.
I can't say that I enjoyed it, even though I think I loved it (but what am I so afraid of?).
I prefer a bit of, you know, plot and characterization, but Lispector's prose is so mesmerizing that it almost doesn't matter what she is writing; you just want to keep reading.
As it was, I read it in one day broken up into several sittings.
I don't think I could even muster up the words to properly describe it, but it's an amazing book.
It is a short book, granted, just shy of 200 pages, and comprised of pithy, snippety chapters.
That's 95% of what happens, story-wise, in this book.The rest is a whole bunch of gobbledeegook an existential crisis that the woman (known only to us as G.H., the initials on her luggage) takes us through, as she stares into the ancient eyes of the cockroach.I am dismayed at my inability to love this book as others do.
I was re-reading paragraphs over and over, grappling, trying desperately to hold on to something that made a lick of sense.
This lady is gonna eat this dead cockroach and there's nothing you can do about it.
That's what you realize at some point, that's what we're building to in this book, which is entirely about some lady eating a cockroach.
So this is the only material drama in this book: when is she going to eat that dead cockroach.
Always giving you a smug pitying look at a party, as though they've figured out something profound about the nature of life that you're too silly to understand.
Eat the fucking bug and get on with it if you have to, lady.
The metaphors and allusions can be reworked in a number of ways; I’ve seen the penthouse room described as a minaret above the desert and the wardrobe as a sarcophagus (New York Times) ; but the Brazilian jungle is never far away.Although the religious imagery is present and especially that of the mass and ingesting the body of Christ; I found no sense of transcendence.
It was an interesting journey and it made me think in the same way I had to when I first encountered existentialism.
What the startling unique prose evokes.Through her short sentences, repetitions to set the drum beat of rhythm Lispector takes us on a searing sweat soaked journey through the mind of a courageous person who garners the strength to seek and face what most other people spend their live's avoiding.
The cockroach even dying is what it is in this present moment.
Alone and…Or…It occurred in the moment of the cockroach.
Just one’s reflection in one’s own eyes in the present moment, then the next.Lispector penetrates GH's mind, boring relentlessly for the questions other shy from.
This is a very thought-provoking book. This as its tagline:  A world wholly alive has a Hellish power.  If you are the type of a reader who rates books according to your level of enjoyment while reading, then this book is not for you. Wait, let me correct myself. If you want to think heavily while reading, there’s a chance that you might like this book too. I ordered this second-hand book via Amazon and paid $9.94 plus $4.99 as shipping charges. Paying $14.93 (P627.00) for a second-hand book wit
and the cockroach stare at each other eye-to-eye and it makes G.H. think of complex questions and thoughts that include existentialism and allusions to the Old Testament leading to secular description of a spiritual rebirth.
The use of the cockroach to a focal point in the story also brings back the memory of reading Franz Kafka’s The Metamorphosis and the incident of G.H. staring at the eyes of the cockroach resulting to a series of profound thoughts.
The only difference is that it is a pigeon for Suskind while it is now a cockroach for Lispector.From the outset, this book was well received by the critics, especially in Brazil, with several book-length studies and doctoral theses devoted to it.
[Ολόκληρη η κριτική εδώ.] Δώσ' μου το χέρι σου. Γιατί δεν ξέρω πια για τι πράγμα μιλάω. Νομίζω πως τα επινόησα όλα, τίποτα από αυτά δεν υπήρξε! Αν όμως επινόησα αυτό που μου συνέβη χθες - ποιος μου εγγυάται πως δεν επινόησα επίσης τη ζωή μου ολόκληρη πριν από χθες; Όταν μια γυναίκα, γνωστή στον αναγνώστη απλώς ως Α. Γ., μπαίνει σε ένα δωμάτιο που κατ' όνομα ανήκει σε αυτήν, βιώνει την απογοήτευση πολλών από τις προσδοκίες που συνήθως συνδέονται με ένα δωμάτιο, αφού αυτός ο χώρος φαινομενικά αρνε
Αν όμως επινόησα αυτό που μου συνέβη χθες - ποιος μου εγγυάται πως δεν επινόησα επίσης τη ζωή μου ολόκληρη πριν από χθες;
Να μου συνέβη κάτι που εγώ, μην ξέροντας πώς να το ζήσω, το έζησα σαν κάτι άλλο; Αυτό θα ήθελα να το ονομάσω αποδιοργάνωση, και θα είχα τη σιγουριά να ριψοκινδυνεύσω, γιατί θα ήξερα πού να επιστρέψω μετά: στην προηγούμενη οργάνωση.
Προτιμώ να το ονομάσω αποδιοργάνωση γιατί δεν θέλω να αυτοεπιβεβαιωθώ σε ό,τι έζησα - με την αυτοεπιβεβαίωση θα έχανα τον κόσμο όπως τον είχα, και ξέρω πως δεν έχω δυνατότητα για άλλον.
Οταν είχα διαβάσει πρώτα την Ωρα του Αστεριού, μου είχε φανείαδιάφορο, πομπώδη κι άστοχο.
Διαβάζοντας όμως στο τέλος την εργογραφία τηςεντυπωσιάστηκα: μια γυναίκα που σχεδόν αφιέρωσε όλη της τη ζωή στό γράψιμο.
Οι μελετητές της επιμέναν: ισως να είναι ενα απο τα μεγαλύτερα αριστουργήματα του αιώνα.
Να βγούν λέω τα Πάθη και θα το ξαναπιάσω.Αλλά τελικά εγινε το αντιθετο: Η Ωρα του Αστεριού είχε ερθει χωρίς να με ρωτήσει.
Αλλά πρώτα είχε σειρά η Μακαμπέα, που μέσα απο το χαρτί μου κουνούσε νοερά το δάχτυλο της: κι αλλες φορές το λάθος είχε γίνει ο δρόμος μας, το ξεχνάμε αυτό.
It follows the emotions and inner turmoil of a South American sculptress, G.H., when she, while in her former maid’s room, inadvertently slams the door on a cockroach and watches it slowly die.I must admit that I was perplexed for the first few chapters.
G.H.’s philosophical musings as she watches the cockroach die are fascinating, to say the least.
This is one of those books I would need to re-read in order to fully appreciate its brilliance.Some quotes that I liked/found interesting:“Suddenly, sitting there, a tiredness all hardened and without any lassitude, overtook me.
It’s poetry:The green water of the air.
Eleven o’clock is full of eleven hours up to the brim of the green glass.
I always liked to arrange things.
Probably one of the great achievements in writing of the 20th century.(I wrote the above halfway through G.H.; I presume my impression was true but can’t entirely confirm it, since soon I was distracted by life and other more addictive reading, and maybe from over-confidence in Lispector I put her down and never regained the same immersion.
Não sei o que fazer do que vivi, tenho medo dessa desorganização profunda.""A vida, meu amor, é uma grande sedução onde tudo o que existe se seduz.""eu estava saindo do meu mundo e entrando no mundo.(...)Se soubesses da solidão desses meus primeiros passos.
Não se parecia com a solidão de uma pessoa.
Era como se eu já tivesse morrido e desse sozinha os primeiros passos em outra vida.""O inferno pelo qual eu passara — como te dizer?
Amor é a experiência de um perigo de pecado maior — é a experiência da lama e da degradação e da alegria pior.""como poderei dizer senão timidamente assim: a vida se me é.
An extraordinary work by the greatest writer of the interior crisis, of the fragmented and the fragmenting, of the breaking and the broken...Her technique is impeccable - the breadcrumbs of an exterior life, of "plot" and "reasons", which are just enough to keep the reader correctly situated but never undermine the mythic and the universally personal (the self that is all self). I need to re-read it though, I need to go slow and listen hard instead of being caught up in the flow...
Here, there are even chapters where Lispector makes liberal use of Pessoa's favorite word: "tedium" (and "disquiet" or "disquietude" too).Sometimes, Pessoa is difficult to understand but for the most part of his "The Book of Disquiet" one gets to understand what he means.
Reality is raw material, language is the way I seek it--and how I don't find it.
I have fatefully to go seeking and fatefully I return with empty hands.
And because I depersonalize myself to the point of not having my name, I reply whenever someone says: I." (185)This little book, though sly and resistant at first, though not meaning to be, because it couldn't have been any other way and still be itself, what it is, finally teaches you how to read it through a hypnosis of apotheosis of the neutral.
Lispector has done something rare and beautiful in pushing through the horror of the unsayable, and by the end, the first sentence of this review makes so much sense that you feel as if she has taught you to read and think in a new way, or to see the old things in new ways.
I had a very difficult time reading this book.
All this makes the flow of the prose seem to undulate back and forth, sometimes flowing, sometimes stilted, but at some point you begin to understand that she seems to be ignoring rules in favor of lyricism, mood and tone.
Though I found the content to be extremely melodramatic, wishy-washy, feminine indecision at first, by the end I could see that it all had a thematic importance and the content of her thoughts made me really begin to examine my own ideas of self and existence.
I can truly say this was one of the most difficult books I've ever read.
I don't know what to do with the horrifying freedom that can destroy me.” There are few expressions of art which can so perfectly portrait the intimism that made Clarice Lispector so famous.
to anyone who wants to have a near-transcendental experience) and this book.
“What I want is to live of that initial and primordial something that was what made some things reach the point of aspiring to be human.” Lispector transports us to a high-class apartment where a woman is compelled to face the insipid normality of her life.
An outstanding out-of-the-comfort-zone book written by the genius Clarice Lispector.
Deeply deeply introspective. Almost equal parts wisdom and nonsense. I wavered between being moved and being exasperated. 2.5 rounded up.
Te lleva por lugares insospechados de la conciencia, y en este libro, que para mí es la cumbre de su obra entera, deslumbra, porque todo lo que cuenta, lo ha ido construyendo a través de su obra.La anécdota es simple: una mujer llamada solo GH, está sola en su casa, la acaba de dejar una chica que trabajaba en su casa, y decide que, ya que tiene el día libre, quiere limpiar el cuarto de servicio donde dormía esta mujer.
lispector explores the often conflicting dualities inherent in mortal existence through her female narrator, g.h., a sculptress whose entire mental and emotional world is upended by what for another may have served as little more than a passing, innocuous, and entirely inconsequential encounter with a common household pest.
the passion according to g.h. is an inebriating work of fiction and lispector, through her gifted command of language, quite nearly evokes in her readers the intellectual disequilibrium her protagonist so headily attempts to discern order from.
how i entered whatever exists between the number one and the number two, how i saw the line of mystery and fire, and which is surreptitious line.
How I went into what exists between the number one and the number two, how I saw the mysterious, fiery line, how it is a surreptitious line.
Between two musical notes there exists another note, between two facts there exists another fact, between two grains of sand, no matter how close together they are, there exists an interval of space, there exists a sensing between sensing—in the interstices of primordial matter there is the mysterious, fiery line that is the world’s breathing, and the world’s continual breathing is what we hear and call silence.
Ό,τι πιο "δυνατό" έχω διαβάσει μέχρι σήμερα...Ένα συγκλονιστικό κείμενο που σε ταρακουνάει, σε αφυπνίζει, σε εξαντλεί αλλά ταυτόχρονα σε γοητεύει.Σε αυτό το αριστούργημα της παγκόσμιας λογοτεχνίας η Λισπέκτορ στοχάζεται πάνω σε φιλοσοφικά αλλά και θεολογικά ζητήματα. Μέσα από έναν χειμαρώδη και εξαντλητικό μονόλογο αποτυπώνει τη κλιμάκωση μιας προσωπικής αναζήτησης, επαναπροσδιορίζει με λογοτεχνικούς όρους την ίδια την ύπαρξη.Το λάτρεψα!!!
H.” é a minha estreia literária com Clarice Lispector (1920 – 1997), escritora nascida na Ucrânia mas naturalizada brasileira.Esta obra originalmente editada em 1964 suscitou e continua a suscitar uma gigantesca bibliografia, incluindo teses de licenciatura, mestrado ou doutoramento.“A Paixão Segundo G.
H.” é um livro complexo, metafórico, um monólogo sobre o amor e sobre o ódio, numa viagem alucinada de lágrimas que ardem mas que não escorrem pelas nossas faces.Clarice Lispector escreve um livro intrigante, com uma escrita inventiva, que congrega outras áreas do conhecimento, exigente na sua leitura e releitura, e que representa uma profunda reflexão sobre os labirintos do comportamento humano.
My memory of the book will probably be the scene itself, which I see as one of those highly schematic, brightly lit Florentine annunciations, only the angel is a half-dead roach.
This might be a problem with the translation, but the introduction suggests that the novel is one of those "redrafting and fixing sentences would just get in the way of the authentic emotion" deals, which are close to my least favorite deals.
The form is also uncomfortably close to *actual* mysticism textbooks, e.g., Margeurite Porete, which guide the reader through a series of fairly obviously artificial 'stages', breaking down one's self and getting closer to god (or, in this case, something else).
A Paixão segundo G.H.
..............cerco,cerco.Tento di capire.
Tento di dare a qualcuno ciò che ho vissuto e non so neppure a chi, ma non voglio tenere per me ciò che ho vissuto.Non so cosa farmene, ho paura di quella disorganizzazione profonda.Non mi fido di ciò che è accaduto.Mi è accaduta una cosa che io, per il fatto di non sapere come viverla,ho forse vissuto come fosse un'altra?Una donna.Una stanza, che è anche uno spazio interiore.Una blatta.A Paixão segundo G.
"Ah, meu amor, não tenhas medo da carência: ela é o nosso destino maior.
Falta apenas o golpe da graça – que se chama paixão."Eu terminei este livro com um sorriso, não um mero ato de expressão, não uma demonstração externa de felicidade, mas sim um sorriso de quem finalmente conseguiu se ler no outro.
Com esse trama, ela toca em tópicos como amor, humanidade, existência, horror, esperança, medo, filosofia, suicídio, metafísica e paixão.
É meu tipo de livro, não tenho condições de criticar, muito menos de dar uma análise imparcial e crítica.
52 It's horrifying and fascinating and crawling and maddening, and it can be felt nearly constantly throughout the book.Lispector doesn’t try to obey the language, she uses it to her will, to tell what she wants to tell.
I would read on wanting it to finally tie all the loose ends together, because things that don’t make sense are inconvenient, I can’t sum them up and fit them into a simple and beautiful whole, and therefore I cannot own it for myself.
Sometimes I think I don’t rate books on how much I enjoy reading them, but on how much they make me want to write.
“Me estaba acercando a lo más fuerte que jamás me ocurrió.
¿Más fuerte que la esperanza, más fuerte que el amor?
Me aproximaba a lo que creo que era: confianza.
Quizá sea éste el nombre.
Sentí que mi rostro sonreía con pudor.
O quizá no sonreía, no sé.
¿En mí?
¿En el mundo?
¿En el Dios?
¿En la cucaracha?
Quizá confiar no sé en qué o en quién.
Tal vez ahora suspires que yo misma jamás estaría a la altura de la vida, sino que ni vida estaba a la altura de la vida.
Jamás alcanzaría mi raíz, más mi raíz existía.
Reason number #36 why I love Clarice Lispector:"Holding someone's hand was always my idea of joy. Often before falling asleep--in that small struggle not to lose consciousness and enter the greater world--often, before having the courage to go toward the greatness of sleep, I pretend that someone is holding my hand and I go, go toward the enormous absence of form that is sleep. And when even then I can't find the courage, then I dream."
