https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/167110.Savage_Sam
Not long ago, we watched the 1963 Walt Disney film Savage Sam. The book Savage Sam is a sequel to Old Yeller, a 1957 Newbery Honor book by which Frederick Benjamin "Fred" Gipson (1908-1973) secured his place as one of the finest novelists in America.
While Arliss and Sam are out roaming, neighbor Bud Searcy and his granddaughter Lisbeth ride up to warn the Coates family about an Indian raid nearby.
Not sure that they really believe the story because no one saw any Indians, Travis and Lisbeth head out to round up Arliss and Sam anyway, but all three are captured by the Indians, who knock Sam out cold.
Read this book today to satisfy a parent complaint of content with "crimes against women" - nope!
Indian killings?
Life in the rugged wild West?
oh yes, but nope, no crimes against women, unless you count kidnapping (3 children were taken from their home in Texas and subjected to a wild ride across the plains, with dad and other Indian hunters close behind) - Savage Sam is the family's dog who manages, against all odds, to track the children down.
Compelling book, but I'm not sure an elementary student is mature enough or has a stomach for all the violence!
I thought this book was really good. It was filled with action and suspense. It was, at some parts, not good for animal lovers because there was some animal violence, but other than that, it was great! The book was well written, and all the characters had strong minds.I would recommend it to anyone.
absolutely loved this book! Love it more then Old Yeller one of the best sequels right up there with Con of Star Trek.
Great book, if you haven't read Old Yeller the original, grab it too.
Savage Sam This book was just amazing because Arles and Travis were funny. Arles would get rock would get rocks and try to hit Travis with them. This book was good but it was more for like 8th graders but I still liked it. One of the things that kept me reading this book was that Arles and Travis got kidnapped bye Indians and they were trying to take them to Mexico and then they were going to sell them to the Mexicans for slaves but then the Calvary came and shot all the Indians and took the kid
One of the things that kept me reading this book was that Arles and Travis got kidnapped bye Indians and they were trying to take them to Mexico and then they were going to sell them to the Mexicans for slaves but then the Calvary came and shot all the Indians and took the kids back to there home.
My favorite character in this book was Arles he talked so much and when they got caught be the Indian all he wanted to fight them because he did not want to go to Mexico with them.
A tale of the son of Old Yeller, this is a very exciting book for a disney story, Travis and Lisbeth along with Arlus and Sam are taken by Indians, has a savage western feel to it, and the story is full of action, danger, and even leans on some adult topics to a degree.
4 starI have watched the Disney movie by the same name a couple of times, and after seeing it was a book decided to read it.
It was so interesting it was very hard to put the book down; I read the first 3/4 of the book the first time I picked it up.
This is a classic that you won't regret the time you take to read it.
And if you haven't read Old Yeller you won't be lost as in this book they do refer to some of the things in the first book.
I have never seen the Disney Film -"Savage Sam"- the sequel to Old Yeller, though I knew it was about the kids being captured by Indians and Sam trying to track/rescue them.
However, I genuinely enjoyed this short novel, and because of its violence I cannot imagine it being a Disney film.
The Indians strip the boys naked and there is lots of shooting and killing of both animals and humans.
One Indian attempts to molest/rape Lisbeth.
A little strong for Disney, in my opinion, but it made for a good read.
Was this a great book?
Was it a fun read?
I have a Disney anthology with an abridged version of this, which I loved as a child, but having finally gotten to read the original, it's everything I want out of a dog/Old West/Indian raid story. I also like it much better than its depressing predecessor.
The book Savage Sam by Fred Gipson is a book about a dog. The boy's uncle, Beck, comes by to check on how the boys are doing and gives advice to Travis on how to handle Arliss a little better. Travis, Arliss, and their neighbor's granddaughter, Lisbeth Searcy are taken hostage by Apache indians stealing horses. Travis is left behind when the Apaches are chased by a cavalry patrol and is found by Sam. Uncle Beck gathers up a search party including Lisbeth's grandfather and neighbor. Led by Sam,
The book Savage Sam by Fred Gipson is a book about a dog.
Travis is left behind when the Apaches are chased by a cavalry patrol and is found by Sam. Uncle Beck gathers up a search party including Lisbeth's grandfather and neighbor.
Led by Sam, who tracks the Apaches despite an injured paw and really bad weather, the search party finds and rescues Arliss and Lisbeth.
A quote from Savage Sam by Fred Gipson on page 109 it says, “Hang with that trail boy!”.
It shows how the dog tracked the indians on where they were going and where they went.
After 16 year old Travis Coates and his younger brother Arliss and neighbor Lisbeth are taken captive by a raiding party of horse stealing Indians, Savage Sam, a Blue Tick/Black Mouth Cur mix displays his tracking skills and leads a rescue party to save them. This novel reveals a grittier side of search and rescue, and survive or die in the 1870's of Texas.
Savage sam is about a dog of a kid and the kids got caught by indians and were beaten and the dog saves them with a possy and stuff like that
I really enjoyed this sequel to Old Yeller. Sam is a lot like his dad and that made me smile. This book was action packed and had some angst in it as well.
A page-turner... I couldn't put it down. As good a story as Old Yeller!
Great adventure, and a great family read aloud! I'd save it for kids old enough to understand the cultural changes since the time the book was written and now; or the time in which the book was set and now. I'd say the stuff I found culturally insensitive was at least historically accurate.For the life of me, I can't understand why this book and the one after, Little Arliss, are so hard to find. We liked both of them as much if not more than Old Yeller. Someone needs to publish all three together in a Coates Family Trilogy.
There wasn't really anything I liked about this book to be honest.My immediate reaction was that this is racist, but I kept reminding myself when this was written and if anyone ever kidnapped my children, I'd be pretty pissed off too.Other than that, I was just bored.
This also didn't feel like a sequel to Old Yeller.
Plus, Old Yeller the dog was mentioned once just to remind us how Sam is related to him.
He was never mentioned again after that and this book just didn't feel like a sequel of another book.This book also had a lot of plot points that lead you to think they're important but not really.
This book truly is a product of it’s time.
It didn’t really have any of the grace and beauty to be found in the original Old Yeller, so not a classic by any means and easy to see why it is not as well-known.
However, it did have one moment of enlightened thinking that really surprised me (based on everything else that happens and that the characters say and do):“Maybe me and Lisbeth and Little Arliss and Papa and mama and friends of ours, like Burn Sanderson, didn’t amount to any more in this world than any other living creature.
4 starI have watched the Disney movie by the same name a couple of times, and after seeing it was a book decided to read it.
It was so interesting it was very hard to put the book down; I read the first 3/4 of the book the first time I picked it up.
This is a classic that you won't regret the time you take to read it.
And if you haven't read Old Yeller you won't be lost as in this book they do refer to some of the things in the first book.
I have watched the Disney movie by the same name a couple of times, and after seeing it was a book decided to read it.
It was so interesting it was very hard to put the book down; I read the first 3/4 of the book the first time I picked it up.
This is a classic that you won't regret the time you take to read it.
And if you haven't read Old Yeller you won't be lost as in this book they do refer to some of the things in the first book.
Savage Same is the touching story of a family living in Texas in the 1870s It portrays the trials that the homesteader had to face as he brings civilization to the wilderness.
The pace of the book is fast, the language is realistic and easy to follow.
The themes include the faithfulness of animals to their masters, growing up, and parent-child relationships.One weakness of the book is that the Indian is painted in such a stereotypical way.
Only once, when the Comanche's shield is discussed, does the reader feel that the race is anything but savage.(I read this novel in the 70s when I was taking an adolescent lit.
This book is as real and haunting as it predecessor. It is NOT a children's book! I mean that! It is absolutely real-life and action packed. Your heart will burst in so many ways for travis, lizbeth and arliss. Chilling and heart-warming. You see the humanity and the evil in both the whites and indians. An absolute must for any reader, I believe especially high school boys would like this book. But remember, NOT A CHILD'S BOOK! Subject material is too mature and graphic for any child under highschool age.
Loved it. Hadn't read it since Daddy read to us in summer and I was a little girl. I fell in love with the Texas drawl and Travis and all his fifteen-year-old courageous boy-man bravery. Arliss is awful loveable, too. And it was real and harsh without being graphic and it hurt and it healed and it made me love my dogs more. Always a good story like this about dogs makes me love my dogs more. It's a good read. :)
I was a child when I read this book and it is THE book that truely caused a love for reading. I dont know how many times I read this book all those years ago but I have never forgotten this book and always remember it affectionately as the first book I loved.. It would be a few years before I would feel that deeply about a book again and it would be Jane Eyre, which I have never stopped reading...
I remember reading this book when I was 16 years old. One time was just not enough for this special book, I had to read it over and over. It was a emotional reading that touched me. All of my kids (11 year old daughter, 14 and 15 year old boys) have all read it and they all loved it. It is a time tested classic. I have read a lot of books by Fred Gipson (22 to be exact) but this is my favorite.
This book is very good! If you love dogs and the old west it is perfect. It is a very adventurous story and always keeps you on your toes. It is very heart warming and makes you feel like you were there when they got captured by the Indians. It is exciting and heart felt through out the whole book. The whole time I could feel the same pain and fear that Travis and Arlis were.
I really liked this book,but I didn't love it. It is good, but it really didn't have a strong impact on me. I liked how it was about a dog because I love animals.I feel like if I had read it when I was younger I would have enjoyed it more.Overall it is a fun read and enjoyable and I do recommend it if you're a animal lover.
A great adventure book--my oldest boy particularly enjoyed it. I liked most of it, but the violence was a little too much for my taste as a child. Probably should read it again as an adult for a more balanced picture.I agree with another reviewer that these books should be more widely read than they are! Great picture of American history and of tough and resilient settlers.
Gosh, this book.I was not expecting that the story would be like that.A lot of animals died in this book. I had a heart ache when Jumper was killed, and I'm blaming the main character for his death. Oh, Sam. You are one loyal dog. The pain you went through just to save your friend. It's just so amazing.
A great adventure but very much a product of the time in which it was written (early 1960s). It is a cowboys vs. Indians tale containing very little sympathy for Native Americans. There wasn't much character development or poetic prose but it is a good adventure tale so I almost gave it three stars for that reason. Teens will probably enjoy the adventure of the Wild West.
