https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41977.Circle_of_Friends
changed into pity and contempt."This book is about friendship, love, betrayal, growing up, learning to fight for what is important & learning to let go.The story takes us to 1957 when Benny (Mary Bernadette) Hogan & Eve Malone are to leave (or are they?) the safe, but limited boundaries of their small Irish hometown of Knockglen -where everyone knows everyone- for the "big, dangerous" city of Dublin.Benny, an awkward (because she is big and tall), but infinitely kind and funny girl is an only daughter to well-meaning, but elderly parents, who don't seem to realise that she is growing up into a woman.
I confess to loving what we at the bookstore used to consider "old lady novels." You know, written by nice old ladies, and featuring stock characters such as "Comfortable old lady who smells like violets," "Troubled young boy who will probably run away, thus becoming the catalyst to resolve the troubles of his father, who is..." "Bitter middle aged widower who just needs a little lovin'," and "Beautiful woman who provides said lovin'."Well, I've moved on from Rosamunde Pilcher, though The Shell Seekers will always hold a place in my heart.
My husband mocked, while I only craved bon bons.Sure, she writes old lady novels.
Nažalost, Mev je prošlog leta preminula i ostali smo bez najtoplije irske autorke...
Njene knjige plene toplinom i pričama o običnim ljudima i njihovim sudbinama...
Knjige za one od 12-100 godina...
A moram da se pohvalim da sam tokom prevoda pronašla dve materijalne greške u originalu i da sam prva posle 35 izdanja koja je ta knjiga imala na engleskom i posle svih engleskih urednika koji su to čitali i dopravljali, i posle bezbrojnih prevoda na razne jezike, koje je ta knjiga imala...
:) E pa, i to se dešava, da autori prave materijalne greške, a prevodioci to isprave...
There's a surprise that pops up with one of the characters showing their real face, so not everything is sedateCons - The lengthy book is a story of unfolding and developing relationships, but not the most interesting thing on the shelves.
I can't get as attached to characters and interested in their story if the view keeps hopping around so freely.
Overall it's a decent book but the point of view switching so heavily isn't something I enjoy in comparison to limited POV or singular, and the length doesn't quite justify the content.
The best way I can think of to describe this book is that it’s a cozy read with a bit of a bite near the end.
Just FYI, I’m still flying high on this book so this review may be disjointed and messy.I liked the way the book moved; it’s rhythm.
For those of you who have read it, (view spoiler)[I mean the way she handles her father’s death and how mature she was when Jack and Nan were horrible people - amazing (hide spoiler)].I also liked how Eve was the best friend for Benny.
You'll fall in love very quickly at Jack Folley, and as soon as that you'll find yourself annoyed by his taken-for-granted-act- to our lovable Benny.As other's Maeve writing, it's all details that we feel we really in their circle of friends in Ireland.I love the part when Eve said to Benny "Someday I'll push down someone for you," after Benny 'rescued' her from a nasty-mouth girl who made fun of her.
Benny finally let him go, eventhough Jack still loves her the same (even more, I guess, after all what happened).This book is highly recommended.
For handsome guy like Jack Folley who finally let go the only girl he really love and care about, just because he took it for granted and couldn't control himself from looking around.
Yes, it’s another of my comfort books.Big hearted, generous Benny is the main character.
Benny never tells them that this broke her heart instead she smiles through the pain and pretends excitement.This book focuses on Benny and best friend Eve leaving their small, country town to attend college in Dublin.
I had lost weight by the time I was college age but I know how it can eat away at you and destroy your confidence.“He drew her a little closer which was great except that she feared the place he had his hand on her back was just the part where the heavy-duty bra ended and there was a small roll of flesh.
We meet Benny who becomes best friends with Eve when they’re 10.
The friendship pretty much solidifies when Benny pushes a classmate that’s bullying Eve. Eve tells her- “someday, when I’m big and strong, I’ll knock someone down for you.”Their friendship remains strong through out the story despite how opposite they are and the many situations that make the story of the book.
“What had Benny wanted when she was Heather’s age, twelve?
What had she wanted?
Maybe a crowd of friends, people that she and Eve could play with without having to be home at a special time.
Really enjoyable story predominantly following two young girls who grow up together in a small town in Ireland. The story mainly focuses on when they go to University together in Dublin and encompasses the story of their friends there and in their home town.It's a family saga with plenty going on and loveable characters. I listened to this on audio and it was beautifully narrated - a lovely heart warming story.
Heart warming story about love and friendship. How fate and personality can clash and destroy innocent dream/ hope. This book is classic. I like it OK. I feel bit dragging on the character development. Nevertheless this is a romantic and sweet book.
This remains my favorite book by Maeve Binchy!
I just couldn't.I really do love Maeve Binchy's works and since I saw the movie version of this, I really wanted to read this.
If I had known how long it was and how some parts deviated from the book though, I would have passed.I think the biggest issue is that at first the book focuses on two school children (Benny Hogan and Eve Malone) and we somehow fast forward through their childhood to when they move onto Dublin and meet another student named Nan. And then the book starts working in Nan's third person POV as well so she became a sort of third main character to the book.
But like any fool girl, I always hope that just once, the one in this or that story will change.And Jack Foley didn't strike me quite as a classic rake.
Binchy does an exceptional job at making the reader care about nearly every character, even the weak ones, and I really, really wanted to love the young charmer.
Benny can’t be there whenever he wants her, won’t go all the way in the back of the car, and along comes the temptress, and he’s toast.But Nan played Jack, too.
This has probably been my favorite Maeve Binchy book that I have read so far. One of the things that I like about Binchy is that she is very good at describing the characters and giving the back story of the characters.Circle of Friends tell the story of Benny and Eve, friends who grow up in a small town in Ireland. They go off to university in Dublin where their circle of friends grows and their lives change greatly. This is a story of friends and the changes we go through as we grow up.
It will make you smile, hope and reflect..Done with the novel today Friday 30/11 at 11:47 (the last few pages were only left because by 7 I could really push myself any further after 27 hours of work)This review is written a couple of hours later at 14:39 :)
I debated. four stars? five stars? I really liked this story about two girls who grow up in a small town and go to college in Dublin. Benny and Eve are fierce friends in a circle of friends who contain some who are not so true in the end. Is it a perfect book? Probably not. Did I enjoy it? Yes! The moral lines are subtle, but they are there. All the characters are fully drawn and the plot kept me reading - quite late on the night I finished it.
This book was major comfort food during a very rainy week. There were parts of this story that had me crying and parts that got me upset with some of the characters. I just had to keep reading to find out what was going to happen.
The best part about this book was the characters and how well they are portrayed.
Everyone had thier own distinct personality and thier personality shown through as if Binchy were writing about people she's known her whole life.I personally found the storyline a little slow for my liking, and it took me a long time to get through this book.
The character of Nan fascinated me the most.
I've known girls like her, so poise and perfect in every way...
drives me nuts why can't I be like that?
Random events, both good and bad, happen to Benny and Eve, all somehow involving Nan Mahon, Jack Foley, and a bunch of other Knockglen residents and Dublin students whom I didn't pay attention to.
In the end, it all reads quite like a soap opera, with a lot of unnecessary antics in between the main story lines of Benny and Eve. Sometimes, I felt the author seemed to tempt me with some kind of worthy 3-dimensional character in Nan or Benny, only to have that snatched away by a scene that portrayed them as inconsistent or backward from how I had pictured them.
Time taken to read - on and off for 7 daysPages - 722Publisher - Arrow Blurb from GoodreadsBig, generous-hearted Benny and the elfin Eve Malone have been best friends growing up in sleepy Knockglen.
But trouble is brewing for Benny and Eve's new circle of friends, and before long, they find passion, tragedy - and the independence they yearned for.My ReviewA story of friendship, Benny and Eve come from very different backgrounds.
We watch the girls grow, love, hurt and become adults facing the world and its challenges.This is one of those stories that the reader can relate to at least one character if not more throughout the tale.
(For a while he was a major teen heartthrob.)I'm feeling a strong urge to rant about the changes that were made in the movie version but that's not really germane and is definitely spoilerish.This book made me a little bit uncomfortable to read.
We're dealing with people growing up in a repressed Irish mostly Catholic environment, in the late 1950s.
Despite the interesting characters, and despite the fact that there were no scenes where the use of force to compel sex was depicted, I felt like that boundary was being pushed or hinted at sometimes, and it made me uncomfortable.
Circle of Friends is the story of Benny and Eve, two best friends who grew up in Knockglen, Ireland together.
Benny, the only child of the owner of a men's clothing store and his doting wife, grew up treasured and somewhat sheltered, while Eve, the orphaned daughter of an heiress and her ill suited love, was brought up by the nuns in the local convent.
When the awkward Benny catches the eye of Jack, the handsome son of a prominent doctor, she is swept away.
Late Maeve Binchy write up in this novel deserves 5 🌟s.
It was as if I was walking a memory lane of strangers who met up in university and become friends.
This book did not leave out the fights that happen among friends 🗯😠, love triangles, friendships that grew to relationships💑, friends that become enemies and strangers once again, betrayal😔, hurt💔, death of loved ones etc just as it happens in any circle of friends.You can relate to the characters and their lifestyle.
I really did and am grateful for the circle(s) of friends I Have 😍😆🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 5/5 to Maeve Binchy
Irish comfort food! Re-read this for Book Club after many years. Forgot how much I enjoyed it and how wonderful a writer Binchy was. I love characters that are so real you empathize with them through all their ups and downs. Very different from the movie, but that was also very enjoyable as I recall. A lengthy book, but a fast read and even minor characters are fully developed and memorable. Perfect read on a dreary day ( and we have had far too many of those this winter!) with a nice cup of hot tea....Irish Breakfast, of course!
Very enjoyable story, we read what happens in this group of friends and it's really entertaining. Some characters are really nice others....................it's a good 'portrait' of life, maybe the book is a bit too long!
While reading the book Circle of Friends, I happen to be very bored.
Each and every character had a sad tragic story that followed them.
In the beginning of the novel it goes into the relationship of two best friends.
These two best friends are Benny and Eve. Benny has a very nice home life with parents that adore her.
The book then brings you to a different part of their lives in which they go to college.
Further into the novel tragic events happen, mostly to Eve and Benny at home.
However if you like a long book filled with people dealing with problems.
Here's all I have:I knew that I wanted to write more on this lovely book, but that it would take some time and thought.
Unfortunately, now, I have allowed too much time to pass, and can't remember much of what I wanted to write!
*ack*What I do remember is that I found it fascinating to read this book while picturing the actress Minnie Driver as Benny.
In fact, if I had another copy on hand, it would go on a special pile of "books I'd like to re-read".I loved Mother Francis!
I can't remember the last time I liked a character so much.
From then on, I read this book whenever I could and stewed over the characters when I was away from it and after I had finished it.
I reread parts, as a writer to see how Binchy works her magic—through dialogue and gesture—and as a reader because I wanted to savor an exchange between characters that I’d come to care about so much.
There’s a love affair that doesn’t work out, and I felt the pain of the flawed character as well as the good one who is smart enough to stay away from him, even though it breaks her heart.
i probably shouldn't, but i LOVE this book...the story of big girl benny, her friends nan and eve, her rampant catholic guilt, and the dreamy boy who fell for her and then broke her heart.
the movie is a decent tribute, and a meaty minnie driver is exactly how i pictured benny, but it changed the ending to one that is WHOLLY disappointing.
the actual story should be one of self-discovery and empowerment; however, the ending of the film makes the story into a "forgive and forget" love story between an ugly duckling who finds a flawed prince charming.
unforgivable.
Ohhh.
Benny.
There were quite a number a people to keep track of--possibly the only downside---but I couldn't stop going once I got into this book.
This author has such a way of developing characters and story that you feel as though you have an inside track on a small Irish town, Dublin, college, and group of friends.
I can't say that I was left with a "good" feeling at the end.
But I cannot help but think of this book even after its ending, which says a lot-- at least to me.
