https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660267.The_Key
As he is going in and blinded by the bright light through the door, another man comes out.
At the half-way mark of this book, Miss Silver is called upon for help by friends of the person arrested for the murder.
Yes, she does employ some techniques to find out what she needs to know, but it is her sincere interest in people and what they are saying that creates the trust necessary for her to obtain the truth.This has been a delightfully refreshing series from the beginning, and I look forward to continuing to read about Miss Silver’s detecting skills in the months ahead.
Miss Silver's years as a governess have given her plenty of insight into human nature--a skill that she turns to her advantage as a private detective.While it is true that Patricia Wentworth's Miss Silver mysteries tend to run on a certain formula--someone dies; either it's mistakenly called suicide or an innocent person is fingered as the culprit (sometimes both happen in quick succession in the same story); former client or former charge of the governess suggests bringing in Miss Silver; there is a young romantic couple (or two) who need things straightened out so they can live happily ever after; and the police repeatedly go down blind alleys while Miss Silver whips clues out of her knitting bag faster than she can knit one of her endless supply of socks, baby layettes, etc.--she has a knack of description and a grasp of character that make each outing seem fresh and new.
"Because green changed to orange at just that time three people were to die, and the lives of four others were to be deeply and radically altered." - The KeyWhat a nice opening hook this was. I "bit", and was immediately drawn in to the story.NOTE: This is pathetic, but I can't for the life of me remember who was the 3rd person to die. If anyone knows, please tell me. It's making me nuts!
Not the best one she's ever written. Plot seemed to be devised around war time propaganda and felt like she's churned it out for the war office without taking any real pleasure in it and didn't devise her usual twists and turns. I couldn't really theories who it was because the answer to the puzzle kind of came out of nowhere.
The Key (Miss Silver #8), Patricia Wentworth
It was said, and was possibly still believed amongst the young of Bourne, that she had real ferret's teeth, and that if she caught you alone after dark almost anything might happen.""Miss Silver was knitting briskly, the sock revolved.
She said, "I cannot take any case with such a condition attached to it.
I can only take a case with the object of discovering the truth.
Sometimes this truth is at variance with the client's wishes and hopes.
As Lord Tennyson so aptly says - "Oh, hard when love and duty clash!" But once I have undertaken a case I can be swayed by duty alone, and that duty must always be the discovery of the facts.
I am finding it interesting to realize that Miss Silver is always able to solve the mystery through interaction with the suspects and relying on the police for physical evidence.
Brilliant she may be, but sexism X ageism guarantees that she would never be employed by the police, o matter how many rings of logic she runs around them.
Unlike Sherlock Holmes, she never disguises herself, because an aging spinster is already invisible and forgotten two moments after one turns away.
Unlike any other detective, her name never makes it into the paper, so she can move from one case to the next as a cypher.
In The Key by Patricia Wentworth, it is 1944, and the German- Jewish scientist Michael Harsch is working hard to complete his special secret weapon to win the war.
Just as he announces that it is completed and makes an appointment to hand it over to a British government official, he decides to go to the church to play the organ, his method of relaxing.
After all, with the completion of Harschite, the death of his wife and daughter five years earlier at Nazi hands is weighing on him.
Miss Silver to the rescue—again.
Wonderful. One of those books that make me want to start the next book in the series immediately after finishing it. Miss Maud Silver, former governess and detective extraordinaire, is one of the best "amateur" sleuths in British crime fiction. Set in World War II Britain, this murder mystery takes place in an English village replete with German spies, finely drawn spinsters of every nature, young lovers, old drunks, and every other sort to round out a thoroughly delectable tale. Guess I'd better head to the library soon for Miss Silver #9!
Pleasant, slightly uneven mystery involving Nazi agents in a small town. Unlike most British mysteries of this period, I found most of the characters moderately likeable. This is my first Miss Silver story and I plan to pick up one of the earlier installments eventually.
This 1944 mystery has all of the period details that make reading classic mystery novels fun for me.
. and, a village murder.This could be any period mystery story IF it didn't feature Miss Silver.
She is not a show-off sleuth, just a wise woman seeking justice.In this book, like many of Wentworth's Miss Silver stories, the detective doesn't appear in the book until the reader is well in to the novel.
and, perhaps despairing that anyone will ever figure out the crime (certainly not me!).I love Miss Silver.
Highly recommended for readers who like smart ladies and policemen in support roles.
This was my first reading of the Miss Silver series.
That's why I like reading stories written in the 20s through 40s.
This story takes place in a village in England during WW2 when there was food rationing as well as saving of metals, paper, and other hard to find commodities.
The story is a little naive in that two pretty sharp police inspectors still need Miss Silver to arrive to figure it all out.
Not too different from Miss Marple of Agatha Christie's mysteries.
Patricia Wentworth was part of a group of popular women mystery writers which included Agatha Christie.
I'll be reading more of the Miss Silver stories.
This one comes close to deserving 4 stars, except that I found the mystery far too easy to figure out and was a bit frustrated by how long it took the characters to suspect the (to me) obviously suspicious person. Janice Meade is an excellent heroine, however, combining the nice looks & good morals of Wentworth's earlier young women with a good deal of backbone, a mind of her own, and the ability to act in crisis.
A delightful period piece mystery concerning the murder of Michael Harsch who has just invented something that will GREATLY help the British war effort. Printed in 1944 and Hitler is mentioned, "The Key" takes place in a small town with limited suspects. Still, it is a clever puzzle and I could not figure out who the murderer was.
Clever wartime mystery.
it's WWII and even quiet English villages are awash with Nazi spies.
I thought the pacing of this book with Miss Silver arriving sooner was perfect!
Always reliableThe country cast of characters, the John Bull police detective, the romance, the big oak pin, those are the ingredients Wentworth mixes up for a pleasant read. Yes her books are formulaic but who cares?
I confess that it took me a while to sort out all the people in the first few chapters, but once I got a grip on it, I enjoyed the plot.You know, after you have repeatedly worked your way through all the Sherlock Holmes, all the Miss Marple, all the Poirot, all the Ngaio Marsh, and even all the Josephine Tey, it is delightful to come upon a whole new series of that ilk.
Mystery set in small-town wartime England with the murder victim an escaped Jewish scientist who developed a "formula" for use against the Nazis.
That sounds cool, right?The characters, especially Miss Silver, our former-governess-turned-private-detective, are likeable.
The murder mystery itself is not twisty or turny, merely process of elimination.
Overall...Miss Silver herself is a charming character.
But the books she's in seem hit or miss--I remember really liking The Chinese Shawl and being shocked by the villain.
Then there was The Case of William Smith which...I can't even remember.
So, to continue with Miss Silver?
I particularly enjoy how the relationship between Maud Silver and the Scotland Yard man, Frank Abbot continues to develop.Recently I viewed new presentations of a couple of Miss Marple stories on PBS Masterpiece Mystery and do think there are some similarities between Miss Marple and Miss Silver.
It has been many years since I read the Agatha Christie mysteries, but I am finding that I really like Miss Silver, as a personality, better, and I think she is much more clever and subtle and not so doddering.
I wonder why PBS has not done these mysteries, and if they did, who would they get to play Miss Maud Silver.
The day he finishes it, he is found murdered in the church where he liked to play the organ.
It looks like a suicide, but people talk in a village, and visiting army major Garth Albany gathers enough evidence to call in Scotland Yard--and Miss Silver.This was a nicely tangled mystery, well-paced, with lots of red herrings, revelations, and the requisite young love.
Miss Silver shares the detective work with many other characters, making it a bit more believable, though the usual coincidences abound.
Seriously, how many people could possibly be out and about in the same place in a small village at 10PM?
Did he really see one of his Nazi captors in Marbury, or was it just a trick of the light and his own exhaustion?Before he has a chance to find out, he is dead.Inspector Lamb and Sargent Abbot are on the case...and eventually Maud Silver rides in to help wrap things up.
And the killer isn't crazy, or doing this to save the mouldering family home, or because he/she is bored.Also, tons of hilariously bitchy comments about English village life and the odd birds who live in small English villages and are all up in each others' business ALL THE TIME.
War-time novel about small village England.
A local scientist, who has just completed work on the latest in explosive technology and is about to turn it over to the War Office, turns up dead in the church where he was playing the organ.
Initially ruled a suicide, there are those who question the rightness of the coroner's jury -- and first Scotland Yard and then Miss Silver is called in to delve into the matter.
Events overtake Miss Silver's deductions, and the murderer is exposed without her direct help -- but she does get to explain how it all happened to an adoring audience at the end.
Another"classic" style English mystery by Patricia Wentworth-very similar to Agatha Christie. A small English village, a closed social circle, eccentric characters, and murder most foul. Takes place during WWII. A scientist who had escaped from Nazi Germany but whose wife and daughter were killed, lives only to perfect a new explosive. The evening that he does, he is murdered while playing the pipe organ in the locked village church, a church for which there are only a very select number of keys. Good fun and includes a sweet romance.
Another in the better vein of Miss Silver mysteries, with characters that generally aren't tedious to spend a couple hundred pages reading about. More of an attempt at an action climax than Wentworth usually went in for, and surprisingly little racism considering the time and subject matter. I was prepared to have to grimace through a lot of comments regarding the victim, since he was Jewish, but that was very little addressed.
As with all but the very early Miss Silver mysteries, these book features a very likable young couple, a gossipy small town, and the delightful Maude Silver herself. The plot depends a little too heavily on coincidence to win five stars from me, but is still a delightful example of Patricia Wentworth near the height of her story-telling powers.
I've been reading all the Miss Silver books, and I'll probably continue reading them. This was one of the weaker ones, I think; the attempts to guide the reader to suspect perfectly innocent characters was a little clumsier than it's been in the others. Still not a bad story; just not one of the better ones.
Another gentle and well plotted Miss Silver mystery. Remarkably a book that is a product of it's time theme-wise (set during WWII) and yet does not devolve into racism against the enemy. The police are made to look rather dense and inefficient though.
