https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/863338.The_Mansion
In this, the final book of Faulkner’s “Snopes” trilogy, we see the completion of the narrative that follows the rise of Flem Snopes from son of poor tenant farmer to bank president living in The Mansion.
But the happenings in the previous two books of the trilogy are pretty well rehashed in this book, and thanks to the skilled and talented writing abilities of Faulkner the retelling is from a different point of view and holds the reader's interest.The circuitous path followed by the narrative passes through numerous short stories about life in the fictional Yoknapatawpha County.
This is the third and final installment of Faulkner's Snopes trilogy.
In this, we again occasionally have V.R. Ratliff giving us the story in his own words.
Likely she never even knowed what the word meant, like the ground, dirt, the earth, whatever it is in it that makes seed sprout at the right time, dont know nor need to know what waiting means.
Still, one can see that Ratliff's observations are pure Faulkner, and, hopefully, that one can see the story would be missing something entirely without him.
The Mansion completes the Snopes trilogy (The Hamlet, 1940 and The Town, 1957.) This novel follows Faulkner's fictional town of Jefferson, MS, all the way up to early 1950s, but since a small Southern town was still quite behind the times in the 1950s and since Faulkner writes always within the hovering shadows of history, it barely feels like a modern story.The resident psychopath in this volume is Mink Snopes.
He is, as they say in the South, a piece of work, who could only have been created by this author: a man of almost zero consequence except for his ability to hold a grudge with the patience of Job.Other characters whom I have, in a weird sense, grown fond of throughout the trilogy, live out their destinies.
For me the steady build up of tension, the intricate development of multiple characters, the fictional South brought to life, and the layered, multiple perspective story telling came to a wonderful conclusion in this final book of the series.
I would literally gossip about the characters to my wife and tell her about their ridiculous ploys (e.g., shake my head and say to her, "You would not believe where that Mink Snopes tried to winter his cow!").
I'm actually sorry this one has come to an end (normally, I'm the type of reader that's ready to jump into the excitement of a new book before the one I'm reading is even done).
Ratliff and Gavin and ChIck go over and over the Snopeses (Flem, Mink, Linda primarily) again, from a later POV.
You realize that Mink killing John Houston (over a tiny kennel fee to get his cow back) and Flem not coming to save him in 1908 has festered everyone until 1946 when Linda enables Mink to come home, Still angry enough at Flem to kill him, which GS in and Ratliff knew, which Flem himself knew and somehow Linda knew too.
Mink kills Houston in The Hamlet.
Flem causes him to try to escape so that he be captured and re-sentenced in The Town and Mink gets released in The Mansion.
But I wish that Faulkner had figured out some way to have Mink narrate his chapters himself instead of bringing back the omniscient narrator who was not missed in The Town.
I was bummed that Faulkner could not figure out a way to continue the multiple first-person narrators that were so perfect in The Town.
I loved the section on Jason Compson’s attempt to get Snopes to buy the old golf course (previous the Compson mile) to build an airport called Snopes Field, only to see it become GI housing called Eula Acres.
I loved getting to see some of the old characters like Miss Reba and Minnie in Memphis, or a glimpse of Ike McCaslin.
The charms and gentility of the South alongside its stubborn refusal to change and its guile are divided among the main characters of the trilogy, with the stubbornness, arrogance, egotism, and guile represented by the Snopes family (massive in number, invading Jefferson like Huns and Vandals, with many of the names devolving from icons of commercialism and mercantilism such as Montgomery Ward) and the gentility and essential spirit of chivalry of Southern life represented by Gavin Stevens, V.K. Ratliff, and Chick Mallison.Faulkner brings his tale (which began in the late nineteenth century) to a close after the events of the twin World Wars and with a final judgement on the durability of small town Southern life within the hurtling speed of the twentieth century.
God, I love, love, love Faulkner. These last few years I've seen that "Counrty Noir" genre thrown around, and I love the stuff, and I think Faulkner invented it. Was nice to see a cameo in this final novel of the Snopes trilogy from Jason Compson (of THE SOUND AND THE FURY.) I always hated that bastard.
The Mansion concludes what used to be called the 'Snopes Trilogy', which Faulkner himself wanted to call it: a sharp and deeply insightful portrait of Mississippi before there was anything called the Civil Rights Movement. Top marks - 5 stars - to all three novels in this trilogy.LOL
Um Faulkner diferente do Luz em Agosto e do Sartoris mas não menos apelativo. Mais despojado e sarcástico, pontilhado de momentos de humor, mas sempre a par da tragédia da cotidiana existência humana.
Let me preface this by saying, on the extremely off chance that someone from Vintage International reads this, whoever wrote the back copy of this should be yelled at, fired, and then run out of town on a fucking rail.
And yet…well, obviously, when one is reading one of the great writers of the age, as indeed I believe Faulkner to be, one is not just asking ‘is this a good book’, because of course it’s a good book, even the shit Faulkner tossed out just for money (The Reivers, I’m looking at you) are really good.
For best results do not attempt to start this novel without having read the previous novels in the “Snopes Family Trilogy” in order of publication - The Hamlet and The Town (aka "Snopes Trilogy #2).All three novels in the Snopes trilogy have intrigue, crime, murder, romance and heart-stopping poetry.If you enjoy Dashiell Hammett or Raymond Chandler or Horace McCoy, chances are this is your kind of read.
Had I not read The Hamlet, I would have missed out on The Town and without having read The Mansion, the mysteries would have never fallen into place and I would have never found out exactly what had transpired in the first two entries in this trilogy.Outstanding literature and unforgettable writing.I will never read another novel as great as the titles in this trilogy.
Like the first book in the Snopes trilogy, "The Hamlet", the character named in each section is not actually the narrator - so while the character is the focus of that part of the story, we often know little or nothing about their interior life, while the narrator in turn is often a secondary character about whom we also don't learn much - and yet there's a fantastic amount of nuanced detail in the story as a whole.This "indirection" (if I am using the term close enough to correctly) is also mirrored in the central character who is deaf - while she can speak, she doesn't lip-read and can't hear the replies, so her closest interlocutors scribble in half-sentences, often half-erased, on little pads that they all carry around - a straitened form of communication that in some sense further limits our degree of understanding.
Faulkner has raised so many questions in earlier novels, that it’s tough for The Mansion not to engage anyone who remembers the stakes: Will Mink get free, and if so, will he lighten up?
The biggest question for me would be are any of us free of Snopesism even if there were no more Snopes?(view spoiler)[It should be pointed out Linda is not a Snopes by blood.
(view spoiler)[From burning Major DeSpain’s barn in “Barn Burning” to the climax inside the former DeSpain mansion, Flem Snopes’ rise was based on exploiting Snopesism by acquiring property but ironically never contributing to the family genetically.
Reading Faulkner always gives me a new appreciation for life.
By the bye, anyone who claims Faulkner was racist simply because of a word he used is missing out.
He obviously was the opposite of racist and any use of offensive wording was in character of one of his ignorant, low-life narrators.
Take for example, Jason Compson, silent and unseen since the end of The Sound and the Fury, returned here in the final act to challenge the infestation of Snopes, and his impotent rage again Flem Snope's general impotence is pure Faulkner.
What began as loosely collected tales of terrible fate with the Sartorises and Compsons and DeSpains, finally coalesced with the McCaslins in Go Down Moses, both begins and ends in the events of this novel.
If The Hamlet was poetry,as I thought it was, this book and The Town are architecture. Extremely complex architecture-- Faulkner must have had a great time building this novel.
The third installment of the Snopes mythos that independently serves as an exquisite interpretation of Southern life post-Civil War. From tenant farmer to bank president to dead man, Flem's obsession with capital and esteem are offset by a rather earnest populism that he can't shake.
Faulkner somehow succeeds at condemning capitalism -- and with Linda, embraces both communism and radical feminism -- without compromising romance.
In its last paragraph ("it was just the ground and the dirt that had to bother and worry and anguish with the passions and hopes and skeers, the justice and the injustice and the griefs...") Faulkner assumes the best way to save the South is to subject it to the very torments of Hell only its townspeople believe in.
Výborná kniha, stejně jako předchozí díly. Je to trošku náročnější na pozornost čtenáře než běžná beletrie, ale o to větší zážitek si z toho odnesete.Co se týká dějové linky, tentokrát je hrdinou poněkud překvapivě Mink Snopes, farmář, který v prvním dílu sestřelil z koně svého souseda a byl odsouzen k dlouholetému trestu v káznici. Konec trestu se blíží a Mink, který dosud nezapomněl, že mu jeho bratranec Flem při procesu nijak nepomohl, se chystá pomstít...
Liked this one best of the trilogy, perhaps only because it wraps things up.In any case, well-drawn characters, beautiful prose. I have been carrying the Snopes clan with me since I started The Hamlet, so am a bit sad to be leaving them. Also, rather more accessible than some of his other work: an easier read.
Worth reading, but less satisfying than the first 2 in the trilogy--fascinating to see how Faulkner's foci changed over the years, with the final volume spending considerable time away from Yoknapatawpha county and commenting on WWII (and veterans returned home), communists in the USA, Memphis and even NYC. Some of the digressions added but some slowed everything down to no particular end.
A worthy conclusion to the Snopes trilogy. Faulkner deftly weaves American history and the overhaul of the American South into this tragic and morally ambiguous story. His prose may be an acquired taste, but fans will enjoy The Mansion and its predecessors in the series.
Glad to have the trilogy finished. Ended up skimming quite a bit in the second half as I just wanted to get it done. Enjoyed the funny bits, got fed up with the tortured romance between two characters. Not interested in rereading.
This is a reread for me after about 45/50 years. I had forgotten just how great Faulkner was. His great run-on sentences, dialog and subtle humor make it such a pleasure to read.
The middle third was... iffy.
Excellent finish to a great trilogy. Faulkner remains one of my favourites to go back to even if some pages require reading several times.
The first section, for instance, the first third of the book, is largely focused on Mink Snopes and the actions that put him in jail: it is told in a generally rambling, light and amusing way, but is deeply disquieting because Mink is an unpleasantly murderous and self-righteous character, failing to take responsibility for any of his actions, constantly putting the blame on other people: there is a strange disparity between what is described and the way it is described.
Back in The Town Gavin Stevens already tried his best to push Linda away from Jefferson and the influence of her 'father,' Flem.
Having deduced what actually happened, however, Linda moves away from Jefferson and settles at Greenwich Village and eventually married a sculptor.
As the novel progresses it remains to be undeniable that the charm Eula had on Gavin was already transferred, and was still quite present in Linda.
When Linda took Gavin in her arms and kissed him long and deep as they parted one could see that the love between them never could have ended.
In some ways it is a stronger novel than its immediate predecessor _The Town_, though it shares the weakness of that novel (the whole storyline concerning Gavin Stevens, Charles Mallison, and Linda Snopes, which is not only mildly misogynistic, but dreadfully sentimental and syrupy as well; the syrup content in this book is increased about five-fold, which doesn't help).
This is particularly true of the second section of this book, "Linda." Linda's character doesn't really become interesting (despite her participation in the Spanish Civil War) until the book's final section, and then it's really too late to believe her role in the climax of the novel and the trilogy.
The third book in Faulkner's Snopes trilogy not only caps off the series, but feels as if it caps off a lifetime if story telling in Jefferson.
Inside it's covers we see the threads of stories begun years before in The Hamlet wind down - for mink, Linda, and Flem Snopes, all told from the perspective of various characters that we have followed throughout the trilogy - and elsewhere.
Leaping from character to character perhaps more so - or at least in a more unstructured manner - than he does in other books, Faulkner does his vest to make each mind, each voice unique.
