https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1360551.Juno_and_the_Paycock
No playwright ever learned more from Shakespeare than Sean O’Casey, and the most profound lesson he learned from the master was how comic figures, flawed but filled with life—Mercutio, Polonius, Falstaff, Enobarbus—can be smashed to pieces by “mighty opposites” in feuds and broils greater than themselves.In Juno and the Paycock, perhaps his greatest play, O’Casey introduces us to the four Boyles, a family from the Dublin slums tailor-made for a comedy filled with good-humored satire and human warmth.
(Notice how reality intrudes even here, how the street vendor, in answer to the Captain's poetic question “What is the stars?” gives him a harsh, reductive answer):BOYLE: Them was days, Joxer, them was days.
Beautifully composed, a timeless satire, it had all I love and more. It reminded me of Eugene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey into Night, which is all I want in modern drama.I absolutely adored the vernacular, the exploration of the psyche of the working class and the witty banter. The matriarchy was an interesting, prominent and actually amusing part of the play. It was a fast-paced read not only because it's very short but also because it's very interesting, not to mention easy to follow. Definitely recommended to those who, like me, are into modern and classical drama especially tragedy.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's books (hide spoiler)]
This tragedy tells the story of the Boyle family; some ragged folks living in a tenement in Dublin, Ireland, during the political turmoil after the republic gained its independence from the United Kingdom in 1921.
Juno wants nothing more than keeping a roof over her family; she is constantly dismayed, though, by her weakling of a husband, Captain Jack Boyle, who keeps whining about his leg pains, doing nothing but drinking and singing all the time.
It gives the 20th century modernity its due at least … the wars, the politics, religion and philosophy and all the pessimism.
He enjoys the company of courtiers like companion and of some sycophant who adores him in flattery and always praises him.In the play Boyle’s family consists of four persons; Captain Boyle, Juno Boyle, their son “Johnny” and their daughter “Mary”.
She always had a book in her hand and was cleverly shown reading Ibsen, whom I am sure likely influenced O'Casey's art.The background of this tragicomedy is based in the impact of the political strife in Ireland following the Easter Rising of 1916, the Irish War of Independence from 1919-1921, followed by the Irish Civil War. As the play opens son Johnny has already lost an arm in the struggles and he has betrayed Robbie Tancred, a neighbor and fellow comrade in the IRA, who was subsequently killed by Free State supporters; Johnny is afraid that he will be executed as punishment.
I want to see this performed. Brilliantly imaginative and innovative. O'Casey had an eye and ear for the culture around him and this is as scathing a rebuke as many a target will never get. Also very funny, entertaining.
Had to read this for my Leaving Cert. and have to say really enjoyed it. Great characters and entertainment.
I watched a preview on youtube of Irish Repertory Theatre's 2013 production of it, and I wanted to hate the play based on how the actors and the directors talked about it: the "sainthood epidemic" was in full-swing.
Also, for Irish Theater people, Maire O'Neill, is the woman who inspired J.M. Synge to write THE PLAYBOY OF THE WESTERN WORLD, and even though she's older in this film, I can see why; she definitely makes you want to watch her.
Two British actors: John Laurie and Sidney Morgan play Jack Boyle and Joxer, respectively, and they were also extraordinarily fun to watch.
Read in my hardcover of Five Great Modern Irish Plays & listened to a full cast audio production on YouTube (introduced by the author).This play is set in 1922 Dublin during the tail end of the Irish War of Independence and is about the Boyle family.
In case you were wondering, 'paycock' is the word "peacock" pronounced with an Irish accent.I found this play to be tragic in a Shakespearean sense -- (view spoiler)[while it looks like things might improve for the family early on, in the end everything is much much worse.
I wonder if O'Casey was trying to say that independent Ireland ended up worse off than they had been before...
(hide spoiler)].
From BBC Radio 3 - Drama on 3:Sean O'Casey's tragic-comic masterpiece, set in a working-class Dublin tenement during the Civil War is arguably the finest Irish play of the last century. Will a surprise inheritance improve life for the Boyle family?Juno and the Paycock (1930) is a film directed by Alfred Hitchcock, and starring Barry Fitzgerald, Maire O'Neill, Edward Chapman and Sara Allgood.This movie is available at YouTube.
Interpersonal troubles, some political, of the Irish kind in Ireland. O'Casey is an Irish master of the cadences of spoken English. The Irish do it best.
This is a gorgeous play situated against the background of the Irish Civil War. The Boyle's (Juno, the mother; 'Captain Boyle,' the 'paycock' of a father; Mary; Johnny) figure into this context with Mary on strike with her Union, Johnny disfigured from his involvement in the Easter Rising and more recent Republican activities, Boyle refusing to find work, and Juno trying to keep everything together.
The family discovers that they are going to inherit a small fortune, but things unravel quickly in the final act.I can't believe I haven't read this until now, but it's really stunning.
Irish theatre constantly leaves me stunned in the most poignant ways.
This play is brilliant. I went into it assuming I wasn't going to like it, because I had to read it for a class, and I actually cried at the end. The characters are so well created, the set brings the characters and the story to life, and the symbolism is subtle but perfect. I would suggest to people intrigued by this play to do some research on the Irish Civil War before reading it. My professor had us watch a documentary, and it helped with understanding the play so much.
I saw this performed a few years ago, so I went into this play already aware of the plot. I'm studying this for the Leaving Cert, so I'm going to leave my thoughts until after I've actually become very familiar with it, rather than just after the one read through. I did enjoy the first read of it though, and I expect I'll feel even more strongly about it after I have a full appreciation for all of its intricacies. Full thoughts to come.
This was an excellent recording on YouTube of a radio performance of the play, with an introduction by Seán O'Casey himself.https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=16ddT2H...A wonderful mixture of farce and tragedy.
" If i were a blackbird, i'd whistle and sing, I'd follow the ship that my true love was in: And on the top riggin', I'd there build my nest, And at night i would sleep on my Willie's white breast ! "
This play is very good, and also good to be read not just for theatrical use. Its striking realism presented in comedy form makes the tragedy look all the worse when it does strike.
Sean O'Casey's famous play deals with poverty, civil war, and family ties. It kind of reminds me of an Irish version of "a Raisin in the Sun," even though it was written first.
Before I read this book, I'm sure I thought that the Irish were just like leprecauns, only taller. "Junot and the Paycock" helped me see the complexities of the people.
A good character study set in Dublin.
The play would have benefited for better depth of character for them.
Other characters (particularly Juno) grow from decent to amazing.
Tied in with mythological information about the Roman goddess, Juno, only adds greater depth.
A good read, but a bit dull in the first act which is predominantly owned by the paycock and his toady.
It picks up in the second act and delivers on the third.
Go find a theatrical production of this play and see it as it was intended, performed live.
Sean O'Casey is a hero to me, I think, and also impelled me to learn a lot more about Ireland and the struggle against British colonialism there. It's always funny how some authors and texts totally interrupt one's linear ideas of progress/ideology. O'Casey clearly has an incredibly nuanced understanding of class and gender subjugation, not at a level one would expect from many early 20th century writers. I definitely want to examine the connections between Irish and African American theater at some point.
Interesting read...there's a lot to unpack here. Also Johnny and Robbie totally kissed a few times while they fought 2gether & thats why he never wants 2 talk abt him
If there is one constant throughout history, it is feckless husbands...
I mean if I had the choice, I would never read this. Alas, you can't just skip required reading for university. This whole play just seemed really dull to me.2 stars.
If you're looking for something to think about while reading it - think about the woman's role in the family and how Juno acts pre and post money.
Hitchcock directed a film of this.
Read it for my Irish Literature class.
Amusing bit of fun here.
What a sad little play.
Reading it in conversation with Lorraine Hansberry's A Raisin in the Sun is certainly interesting (this one was written about 30 years before Hansberry wrote her play).
Besides that though, coming into reading this play I knew very little about 20th century Irish revolutionary moments.
But the characterization is pretty interesting and the dialect used throughout the play seems to be pretty true to form (I also fairly little about the Irish as a people in general).

