https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10571.The_Once_and_Future_King
Even classics, see?" What, What?I honestly went through many changes while reading this work, but that may be entirely because I keep seeing how it has changed the world, our perceptions, and especially it's influence on so many of the cultural set pieces we enjoy across a wide, wide canvas.I was thrown, willy-nilly, into a purely Disney Sword In Stone cartoon for the first book.
Steeped in Morte d'Arthur and a later retelling, The Boy's King Arthur by Sidney Lanier, The Boy's King Arthur: Sir Thomas Malory's History of King Arthur and His Knights of the Round Table I couldn't accept the to-be King Arthur as "Wart" nor White's fanciful account of castle life.
I still remember but to my frustration cannot find, the scene in Malory where Lancelot and Gwynver take leave of each other for good.A high-school teacher made his class (including me) promise not to open Thomas Wolfe before age thirty.
The entire book is one long rumination on how the human race should be run, from the perspectives of the unnamed narrator, Merlyn, a few enlightened individual characters, and several anthropomorphised animals.
And White makes a point of mentioning that they are the same age, so if Guenever is old and wrinkly Lancelot is too.
This didn't help me take the book seriously.) But White's scorn for Guenever is nothing compared to his disdain for Lancelot's unwanted admirer Elaine, who has the further audacity to get old and fat, instead of staying "pale and interesting" (457).
Considerăm adecvați ultimii doi termeni, „fabulism” și „irealism”, cu precizarea că termenul „fabulism” ar trebui aplicat unui curent literar dedicat operelor alegorice care beneficiază de un decor fabulos (lat.
„fabulosus”: „ca în fabule”, dar și „bogat în mituri” – EG Arthur, regele Camelotului ori Ultima licornă), în vreme ce termenul „irealism” ar trebui aplicat unui curent literar dedicat operelor alegorice care beneficiază de un decor mundan (EG Versetele satanice).
The essence of fantasy is world-building, and having created a convincing ‘secondary’ world, even if only as an amusement for children, it is inevitable that a good author will want to widen and deepen that world, and even find herself discovering parts of it that she had not originally considered.
Of course, the heroes of such books tend to be young, and the darkening of the world around them also mirrors the change from the bright fantastic world of childhood to the deepening shades of adulthood.Nowhere is this more true than in the curious case of T.
This summer, my parents and I went on holiday to Cornwall and visited Tintagel Castle, which was supposedly the place where King Arthur was conceived.
I knew that it told the story of King Arthur, that it was on every single list of best fantasy books, and that my sister-in-law, who is an avid fan of Robert Jordan, George R.R. Martin, and Terry Goodkind, had been begging me to read it for years.
I figured that it would be an epic fantasy story with lots of drama and violence – which it is.
The Sword in the Stone 3One of my bookish pet peeves is when the meaning of the title comes clear too late in the book.
I'm still getting used to the fact that the whole thing is not centred around Arthur, but Lancelot's story was interesting too.The Candle in the Wind 2.25This one went over my head a bit.
I just remember the part where Lancelot is being warned that he should not go to Guinevere's chambers because there's a plot to catch them together and have them killed, and he's all like "Naahhh.
Come on.The Book of Merlyn 2So much geese.
I read The Sword in the Stone and half the next book but really wasn't enjoying the outdated moralising. Bits of the first book were mildly fun and magical, and maybe if I'd read it as a kid I would've enjoyed it, but I'm way too old for that now. So on the unfinished pile it goes.
I was listening to the naxos complete audiobook on audible, while reading along, which led to confusion, then illumination, which I’d like to share with you.First of all, in case you don’t know, “The Once and Future King” is made up of four books, three of which had been previously published.The Sword in the Stone (1938)The Queen of Air and Darkness (published in a longer form in 1939 as The Witch in the Wood)The Ill-Made Knight (1940)The Candle in the Wind (1958 as part of The Once and Future King)White later incorporated the first three books into one whole, editing them and adding a fourth and fifth part evidently with the goal of emphasizing and refining the anti-war theme.
This might contain mild spoilers if you're not familiar with the story of Arthur, but if you're not I don't think this would be the best book to start out with.Sometimes it is hard to imagine this was written in the 20st century.
Wart (aka Arthur) starts off as a child, very optimistic and eager to learn, and gradually grows into an adult and eventually an old man.
Arthur isn't just noble because Merlyn told him to.
He has build up to that his whole life just to lose it all, but when offered to become a young boy again by Merlyn he rejects.
The last half of the book is about Lancelot and Guinevere and creating the Knights of the Roundtable by Arthur who becomes somewhat of a pathetic figure later in the story The Knights establish order through force, they seek the Holy Grail and then the roundtable falls apart due to factions and Arthur gets caught in the middle of this.
Considering my passion for Arthurian legend, I really wanted this to be a book I loved.Alas...It was very slow with lots of detail that I felt didn't add much to the plot.
It seemed to take a long time to get to the familiar parts of the legend.
And then when the book got interesting, those parts seemed to be rushed when I wanted more.
Overall, I felt underwhelmed by it.Maybe I should have read this classic when I was younger because I spent a lot of time picking at the inaccuracies and improbabilities rather than sitting back and enjoying it.
Keeping in mind, that T.H. White wrote this series from 1936 - 1943, a time in which Britain, was being tested to the very core of her survival, entering war with Germany, the blitz, Dunkirk, children moved throughout the country with strange families to protect them.
T.H. White's reflections and questions as to why there is a war, the struggles between countries, the purpose of government, the purpose of friendships and relationships, all comes roaring to the forefront.
After all, everything was in peril.The result of his examinations, wonderings, and reflections, culminates in a well thought out, interestingly presented, and a well told story of Author and the Knights of the round table.
This story is delightful & a lot of fun to listen to while jogging.
Just finished Book 3 (the story of Lancelot).
In the audio, its hard to tell when one book ends & another begins.
I'm really enjoying how this story is told from so many viewpoints to tell all the sides.
As the story progresses, the tragedy of Arthur's life becomes more apparent.
The next 3 books tell Arthur's story as King from different perspectives: his, his cousins and Lancelot.
I enjoyed my jogs while listening to this book.
I loved it so very much.This book consists of 5 stories each one following the life of King Arthur and his knights throughout his life.
The setting was described so vividly, the characters were fantastic and very real, and the way it was narrated was great.
The book is written as if the author was telling the story, and even though this is set in the Middle Ages, there are lots of references to other time periods and stuff related to those times, which was very entertaining.
If you like the Middle Ages read this, or if you like King Arthur.
A traditional yet unique take on Arthurian legends; follows the life of Wart (Arthur) forwards, the life of Merlin backwards, and makes the story personal.The original legends of Arthur were scattered texts, morality tales, and in the worst cases, miscellaneous word droppings sold by unemployable hacks.
What TH White does is unite them coherently, making only limited references to the more extraneous tales, and develop a cogent and powerful storyline.
White showcases how Arthur excels as a king and fails as a husband.
Following the footsteps of "Le Morte de Arthur", TH White creates a story that is moving, tragic, and showcases an earnest king whose good intentions fail to hold back the tides of time.
It started out great with the Sword in the Stone...
quite interesting in the Ill made knight but after than I sort of went on more because I wanted to finish it than anything else...Quite possibly it was because I simply felt like reading something else by then, but I also think that with each book the story became heavier and more political and personaly I'm not particularly interested in politics so...
I loved Merlin, he was just such a bright spark in it all and that's one of the reasons why I loved the Sword in the stone, he was just brilliant.
I recognize that Arthurian Legends are not everyone's cup of tea, so to speak, but really, one should give this a try, forgetting Disney and Broadway and killer bunny rabbits.Consider White's prose, after drawing out the family lines of Arthur:Even if you have to read it twice, like something in a history lesson, this pedigree is a vital part of the tragedy of King Arthur.
That is why we have to take note of the parentage of Arthur's son Mordred, and to remember, when the time comes, that the king had slept with his own sister.
He did not know he was doing so, and perhaps it may have been due to her, but it seems, in tragedy, that innocence is not enough.
There are pages and pages of what can only be described as random philosophical mumblings about nothing and anything.This book is almost impossible to actually get into and follow.
I have read 30-40 pages of this without actually being able to recall what has happened.
To top it off the ending is just atrocious and summed up by the author in about six pages without any actual first or even third person perspective.The books only redeemable quality and I say this very loosely are its references to a modern setting which are sometimes funny to a small extent.
If you want the "happily ever after" ending you won't get it here. A mix of history, romance, tragedy, fiction, war and wisdom. Arthur is an inspiring character who shows total faith in those he loves. He simply believes in people. This is his greatest triumph and the cause of his ruin. I like this book a lot. (it is also a good musical known as "Camelot")
I defer, on the whole, to Yara in this case - with slightly less enthusiasm, but also significantly less biographical knowledge.
An easy five stars. I have so many thoughts about this book. At some point in the near future I am going to come back and tell you ALL OF THEM.
It was a lot of fun and it gives us the first glimpse of many of the well-known characters we know and love in the Arthurian legends - Morgause, Gawaine, Garath, Gaheris, and we briefly hear of Igraine, Lancelot and Mordred.While the humour continued in this novel, not a lot happened that I felt was integral to the story of King Arthur that I'm familiar with.
Lancelot is painted as the epitome of honour (despite having an affair with his best friend's wife but I guess we all let that slide) and so White has crafted this story in a way that makes us feel that that's true, we sympathise with young Lancelot and share his wonder and love for King Arthur.
Перейдя, наконец, от средневековой литературы к относительно современной, испытываю радость.Размышления вначале о пути Артура заканчиваются размышлениями об итогах правления, о наследии Артура.Все книги веселые, ненапряжные, с множеством отсылок и массой воображения.Немного о каждой повести:Меч в камне.В первой книге цикла Артур (ещё под именем Варт) проходит обучение у Мерлина.
Тем и интересна, обращение Артура к началу, мысли об ошибках и бесконечном повторении ошибок.Я получил от этой части огромное удовольствие.По итогу самое интересное что есть в книге размышления автора и фентезийная часть, места где описываются события несколько провисают.
Bring it on!The first book was thoroughly enjoyable, bringing back strong memories of the Disney adaptation, with fun and quirky stories and an entrancing character in Merlin.
If nothing else, it serves to show how much breadth there is to Arthurian legend, and how even a book of this size can't touch on all the aspects which have appeared through the years.In spite of this, I ploughed on, and there were interesting bits here and there - enough to keep me going, enough to keep me engaged and wondering what the outcome would be.
I love much of the story of King Arthur, and so I have had The Once and Future King on my List of books to read for a really long time.
If you keep on dividing you end up as a collection of monkeys throwing nuts at each other out of separate trees."The Ill-Made Knight was by far my least favorite of the stories, and not surprising since it covers all the bits I don't like in the Arthur legend, and following one of my least favorite characters.
This book at first glance is a simple rewriting of the story of King Arthur adding and elaborating on what already was written by Sir Thomas Mallory.
I would say that the purpose of writing this book on King Arthur, adding another to already numerous retellings, is political.
The political intent of the author based on the time in which he wrote it, just after WWII, is a critique and a message of warning to those who were in charge of reconstructing Europe and the world after the war's aftermath, to those who were trying to establish justice and peace once again.
1.5 starsThis was supposed to represent a collection of five books, but the titles didn’t seem to be announced (or I kept missing them) so they all just blurred together.
I liked the first book, The Sword in the Stone, and I’d give that one 3 stars because although I liked it the animal stories became a bit repetitive.
I’d recommend stopping after that because the rest just seemed long.
Stop after he becomes king, anyway, at whichever book it is.
It seems like it’s impossible to write an Arthurian story where Lancelot and Guinevere aren’t boring and whiny.
Hmm, ikke som jeg forventet.
Jeg hadde vel sett for meg en bedre skrevet fantasy-serie, men fikk i stedet en halvgrei skrevet serie med utgangspunkt i legenden om Kong Arthur.
Det er noe litt uferdig med karakterene og skrivestilen; på en måte mangler det litt logikk i det som skjer.
Samtidig prøver White å forklare hvordan tidene var, og hvorfor det som skjer, skjer.
Jeg er vel ikke helt overbevist, selv om det var gøy å endelig få lest The Sword in the Stone.
Men når det faktisk skjer noe, så er det underholdende.
The book was about half treatise of one sort or another, and the Book of Merlin was so boring with it that I barely finished. Besides that, once you got past the part that had been made into the beloved Disney film, it became so depressing you almost didn't want to know what would happen next.The first part of the story was charming. Watching Wart grow up gave a depth to the wonderful old "Sword in the Stone" movie.
