https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66505.The_Dead_Sea_Cipher
It's intensely stupid and another example the types of books Peters seemed to excel at: Dippy Female Who Falls Immediately In Love With Good-Looking, Goofy Hero While They Are Chased By Bad Guys.
However, because has been practicing Arabic with her buddy the cleaning lady, the police (and apparently the bad guys) are suspicious that she did understand the argument.
After this she probably meets her future husband and falls in love with him while they run around Beirut hand-in-hand being chased by bad guys.
Elizabeth Peters/Barbara Michaels wrote a lot of books and many of them are very entertaining.
This is one of Peter's early books, and it shows.
Still, if you can enjoy old-fashioned romantic-suspense, Peter's ability to create interesting minor characters makes this one worth reading.
The dialogue is a little stiff and the ending definitely isn't believable, but again Peter's makes it fun.
You can see some similarities between this and the Amelia Peabody books, in the setting and the archeological and historical details, for instance.
In fact, if you're a writer you may be interested in reading some of these older books to see how writers can grow.
I began this one while it was storming outside last night.
:) It is okay so far, not too gripping, though, from the outset.***This one is getting more interesting, and the setting is a bit different as is the main character and her background.
Her father is a minister with an archaeology interest.
So, that's pretty neat and different for one of Peters' novels.***I'm over halfway done with this one.
The Holy Land is covered pretty well, and there's a lot of interesting stuff about the sights there.
The plot and mystery are pretty weak, though, I have to say.
This story moved slower than molasses in January, and oh so boring. I tried to pick out things which kept my interest but alas found nothing worthwhile. Some of the places described the author were awesome but all in all this was a 'did not finish' for me.Should I be inclined someday that I want to try again, I do have this paperback on my keeper shelf at home. But for now, this audio is going back to the library.
It was okay. I didn't like the main character as much as I like the Amelia Peabody universe. I think that expectation is probably what skewed by view on this book.
Coyer Summer BashThis book is languorous. It makes murder boring and though their is an elemnt of interest that makes you plod towards to the end to see how it all works out. I usually enjoy Peters work but this one was hard to get through
Elizabeth Peters is one of my favorite authors!
So I was excited to see a book of hers I hadn't read yet.
While this book is similar to her "peabody series" it has some of its own adorable quirks.
The main character is an opera singer with an ear for languages.
After hearing some strange things from the room next door.
It starts her on the path to collide with very interesting characters.
This book is a fun fast paced read that incorporates the old world of the bible with the new.
In The Dead Sea Cipher, Dinah is going on a trip to the Holy Land for and in place of her father.
While there she becomes entangled with Tony, a U.S. government official and Jeff a Biblical Scholar.
Both are looking for recently found scrolls.
Who on the trip can be trusted?
Is anyone whom they say they are?The Dead Sea Cipher wasn't quite what I had expected it to be.
While it had the making of the type of book I would typically read....
it was a little too fluff for me.
With that being said it was a good read.
Well, the title is good, but this is the least Elizabeth Peters-y EP book ever.
Excessively traditional and my loathing for Dinah was complete when she was sorry to have to go to her fabulous job because she would be separated from her Love.
The farce at the end was this book's only saving grace.
The only bad EP I have ever read.ETA: ok one other good point: Dinah's father can't travel because he is in a wheelchair, but that wouldn't be true today - I was reminded of my mother's participation in the tour titles "Access to the Holy Land".
These older books by Elizabeth Peters are so frustrating to read, and this one was no exception! The basic plot is a good one, along the lines of an Agatha Christie, but her characters act in such an unrealistic and contradictory manner that the story just doesn't work. Her characters all seem like adults as envisioned by a twelve-year-old. There are gaps in the story where actions and situations aren't explained, sort of like a badly-edited movie. Her writing definitely improved with time, but these earlier efforts are disappointing.
My second favorite Elizabeth Peters book, right after Crocodile on the Sandbank. This book is a stand-alone, which is as it should be. If you're interested in biblical archaeology, mixed with adventure and romance, you will love this book. Elizabeth Peters' characters are realistic (in a larger than life kind of way -- it works), but they're having so much fun you just want to be on the adventure with them, and you feel as if you are.
Great suspense and action. Very heavy into Bible of which I am not but still held my interest and looking for more from Elizabeth Peters.
Elizabeth Peters earned my respect and admiration with her delightful Amelia Peabody series "Egyptologist and sleuth extraordinaire". I've read them all.No doubts, that PhD in Egyptology she received shows in her believable and vivid descriptions of that land of antiquity. Add her abilities as the grande dame of historic mystery, and the novel could hardly fail.This one is cleverly done, has a cast of bizarre characters and a gutsy heroine , albeit a dense one at times.
Somewhat dated (and sad because of it: the characters travel through undamaged Lebanon and Syria in a way we can’t imagine today) and containing another unbelievable plot. Peters never fills in details when she doesn’t have to (she’s willing to leave a lot to the readers’ imaginations), which is a strength when writing a story as wild as this one.
I love Elizabeth Peters' wit. This is not an Amelia Peabody or Vicky Bliss novel, but Dinah is still fun. It's also fun to read an EP book set in a modern (ish, it was at publication in 1970) era. Dinah doesn't have the agency AP has, but still a fun book. Particularly fun if you have Biblical manuscript details in your head as well.
It was good but very slow to start which I am not used to with her books. I am a fan of her Amelia Peabody books so this was a bit different. I enjoyed Dinah going to all those places that I want to visit.
This is a mystery that has tons of mid East history. The characters are an interesting group, the setting is the mid eastern part of Europe, and an ending that lets the reader know there will be more books for this series. copy right 2017
I really enjoyed this fun archaeological thriller. The academic detail was spot on, as usual. The romance felt very forced, and began with him being a controlling stalker, so I'm not as much of a fan of that.
Ending a bit confusingWasn't sure exactly what the ending was about which somewhat spoiled it for me, but writing in general is good. !like Amelia Peabody stories better but I understand this is one of her ear!her books and it was still very good.
I like it. A good listen, but not nearly as interesting as the Amelia Peabody stories.
Lovely adventure. Really, I don't think I have ever been disappointed by a Peters book.
My first Elizabeth Peters book. Definitely not my last. Loved the twists and turns and the archaeology.
Ugh! Just wasted 8 hours of my life.
This is simply not as good as her Peabody books. I enjoyed the descriptions of the Middle East, but was not so impressed with the plot and character development.
Fairly standard romantic suspense from the 1970s. Dinah goes to the middle east to take a tour. She gets mixed up in something that leads to additional manuscripts being found near the Qumran area.
Anytime you want to learn something about archeology, Elizabeth Peters is a great go-to. This was formulaic and predictable, but enjoyable enough.
Kind of anticlimactic ending.
“The Dead Sea Cipher” has been trampled by one-star feedback that lacked any open-minded explanations.
I nearly bestowed five stars for originality, which should always be praised; never disdained and for the pleasure I derived in reading it.Dinah’s Dad, a reverend and Biblical archaeologist, sends her on the vacation of a lifetime that would presumably be difficult for a handicapped gentleman of 1970.
The victim was a fellow archaeologist, on the verge of a world-changing discovery; similar but infinitely more precious than the Dead Sea Scrolls.
We wish Dinah had told both pursuers she had no information, once and for all.
There are many characters, including all her tour companions and a few men who are all trying to convince Dinah that she should work with them.
Ultimately, she ends up believing Mr. Jeff Smith, who is portrayed at the beginning of the book as a bumbling idiot and then ends up as the romantic and charming hero who Dinah agrees to marry (after only knowing him for about 3 days).
Cartwright dies (thank goodness) and then all the tour group gang up and throw out the scrolls that claim to document the entire life of Jesus.I liked the description of all the places (Jerusalem, Damascus, Jericho) since I will likely never get there.
Dinah van der Lyn travels to the Holy Land and stumbles into an international intrigue tied to the Dead Sea Scrolls.She's a young professional opera singer, and the daughter of a Pennsylvania clergyman who has an interest in Biblical archaeology.
The tour she has signed up for hasn't even left Beirut yet when Dinah overhears a loud and violent argument in the hotel room next to hers.
For that matter, why should anyone believe Dinah is who she says she is?As they visit major archaeological sites, Dinah chases rumors of new and potentially explosive Dead Sea Scrolls, and tries to figure out who is more dishonest and untrustworthy, Smith or Cartwright.
