https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/908311.The_Female_Man
We claim to be a "post-feminist" society, but patriarchal thinking still lurks beneath, and it takes very little prodding to bring its apologetics to light, in both men and women.
Some of them are incarnations of wishful thinking--the women or the self we want to be (though Russ shows the flaws in those "idealized" selves, too, much more than Gilman does in Herland), and the others are compartmentalized into the societies of the present or the past, but they make a compatible whole.
In the book, she comes across as unhappy, and without much notable personality.Jeannine - is a cliché of a weak woman oppressed by Man. She lives in a world where the Depression never ended, and is the worst stereotype of a librarian.
She has a fiance that she's not attracted to, (she doesn't seem to like sex at all) but she feels the need to Be With A Man and Get Married due to personal loneliness and social pressure.Jael - is from a future world where women are at war with men.
In it, Russ contrasts and intertwines the stories of Joanna (a 1970s feminist of a world much like, if not identical to, our own), Jeannine (a young, fairly stereotypical woman of an alternate timeline in which the Depression never ended), and Janet (a woman from the distant utopian future of Whileaway, a world with no men and only women), showing multiple variations on the issue or problem of sex difference alongside multiple responses to inequalities.
One of the best books I've ever read. Uncomfortable, frenetic, literary, and GODDAMNED MAGNIFICENT.

"The Left Hand of Darkness" did a much better job of using science fiction to explore gender roles and identities.That said, there are two, yes, two, awesome scenes, and for them alone I kept reading.
The interviewer is darling in his uncomprehending as he asks if the women in Janet Eveson's world don't "miss" sex, and her blunt response that of course they have sex all the time.
I also liked how she says she is married but they insist on calling her "Miss" because, of course, her lesbian marriage isn't recognized by them.
Suddenly I want to count how many women are in my life.
too much of this felt exactly like the awful things women are still told to accept as their role in the world: Sacrifice yourself for men, who will tell you who you are.
"Someday you'll want children, you'll feel differently when you're older." No. I won't.
Don't you dare tell me how I should feel or what I should want because I'm a woman.The Female Man will rile you up like this: it's screaming at the sexism and misogyny in the world, asking why?!
Now, women are free to become doctors and lawyers, professions which to all intents and purposes barred female students until recently, or to take any other university courses that they desire.Birth control drugs were not an established thing—the pill was just coming on to the market during these decades and was not always easily available.
And if you don’t understand this background, you also won’t understand The Female Man. Russ shows just how much male privilege dominated, how inferior women were assumed to be.
Many of the feminist issues Russ engaged with are still with us today, the double-standards women are held to and the things men expect of them.
That part of the book seemed perfectly reasonable to me: a little out-dated, perhaps, as all of this sort of thing will become in just a few decades, but not irrelevant.The story, however...
I would rather have read the story and the examination of the role of women separately, I think.
For me, I came to this book expecting a classic of science fiction, and to be honest, it doesn't seem like there's much.
The issue is that the same ideas have been depicted in a far more interesting way in fiction since it was written.It was radical at that time - Russ was one of those few female writers writing hard SF good enough to take credit for inspiring Gibson.
Whatever it is, I rate it 3 stars in consideration for its radical nature when it was written, and its feminism, and take away the 2 stars for lucidity and comprehensibility.------------------------------------------------------------------Old Review but considerably RevisedA thought-provoking example of feminist sci-fi, "The Female Man is the story of four versions of one genotype, all of whom meet, but even taken together do not make a whole, resolve the dilemmas of violent moral action, or remove the growing scandal of gender" as summarized by eminent critic Donna J.
For those who turn to it expecting a science fiction novel, as I initially did, it may be quite a disappointment.
At times it can be thoroughly confusing, with its disjointed narrative and ever-changing “I.” It is simultaneously a brilliant exercise in exploring questions of feminist theory, and a rather poor excuse for a science fiction story.
Once I relaxed my expectations of what was going on, and got over my confusion about who was speaking, I was able to thoroughly enjoy it!
This is a piece of work crying out to be read, and reread, and reread again.
If I taught SF literature in high school, I'd make this book mandatory reading, knowing my students would hate me for it.
It's true that the book is singularly concerned with subjects articulated by feminism, but I think it should be required reading for everyone of either gender.
It's gut-wrenching stuff for me as a man: a woman speaking directly to me, with no filter on her anger, her hopes, her hatred.Some reviewers accuse this book of no longer being relevant, to which I can only laugh.
But even these elements do not ultimately take away from a powerful, socially relevant book.
It's a story of four women from very, very different lives.
As the book explores the lives of these women it's fractured, broken up and disjointed.
It's not an easy 'story' but the themes of the book are evident throughout.I don't think that this is a typical narrative.
As a story, no, but as an exploration of a theme, most definitely.
The experimentation, which brings to mind Pynchon, Samuel Delany and Kathy Acker, is both the most interesting aspect of the book and what can make it hardest to enjoy as a good read.
The story revolves around several female characters, Jeannine, Janet, Jael and Joanna, each of whom is a representative of an "alternate reality", but also in some sense embodies a distinct aspect of the author's (Joanna Russ's) personality and a different strategy for coping with the experience of women's oppression: meek subordination; confident, defiant independence; androcidal rage, etc.
I'm still trying to decide if I liked this book.Being a meta lover, I dug Russ's writing style.
And I felt proud for recognizing that.But aside from the writing style, I grew bored with the story real quick.
I know she was trying to show how farcical it was for women to put on a show for men, but to try to compare that with how Black people were treated in that time was very ignorant and stupid on Russ's part.
I think I'm going to go read When it Changed, which I believe has what I want: a story set in Whileaway, and Russ's good writing to boot.
This book is written in blood.Is it written entirely in blood?No, some of it is written in tears.Are the blood and tears all mine?Yes, they have been in the past.
But the future is a different matter.
As the bear swore in Pogo after having endured a pot shoved on her head, being turned upside down while still in the pot, a discussion about her edibility, the lawnmowering of her behind, and a fistful of ground pepper in the snoot, she then swore a mighty oath on the ashes of her mothers (i.e., her forebears) grimly but quietly while the apples from the shaken apple tree above her dropped bang thud on her head:OH, SOMEBODY ASIDES ME IS GONNA RUE THIS HERE PARTICULAR DAY.
What it means to be a woman in four different parallel worlds, told from the perspective of four women crossing over to each other's worlds and discovering different views on gender and gender-roles. MIND BLOWN!
This will be reread soon.
Come for the catharsis ; stay for the fiction.
And now I've finally gotten around to reading it with another group on Goodreads, and I'm really glad we chose it for this month's fiction read.It's not a very easy book to review, I will be honest.
I'm glad I did because what Russ was able to do when she wrote this in the 1970s was write so convincingly about women's issues that, sadly, are still completely relevant in 2015.
This is my first and, most likely, last experience of the writing of Joanna Russ.This is not so much science fiction that explores themes of gender but rather a feminist tract with occasional use of SF tropes.
Joanna (perhaps the author herself?) from our reality.
The each see a little of each other's world and how different life is for each of them.The narrative voice shifts nebulously between these four characters without any clear distinction, sometimes referring to themselves in the first person leading to a fair amount of confusion in the reader.
This combined with the lack of any coherent plot and the intentionally provoking polemics will likely put off many readers.
I sometimes finish a book and think "that was clever" or "that was well-written" or "that was exciting," but rarely do I think "holy shit, that was so fucking necessary!" The Female Man is one of those rare necessary books.
But that's the wonderful part: this book is a kick to the face, a massive challenge to every last one of your assumptions, and you are meant to receive it a such.
3.5/5 If you expect me to observe your taboos, I think you will have to be more precise as to exactly what they are. I've recently become a part of a special interests group that, for purposes of a mainstream definition, I'll say can be encompassed by the upcoming movie "The Shape of Water", and it's amazing how much bullshit goes on in there. You'd think that willingly embracing one example of a highly stigmatized sexual/romantic attraction identity would make one more conducive to, say, acknow
I understand people don't have the energy to constantly engage, but to think that I'm going to enter into a new community and rely on the boiling frog principle to determine whether I'm safe or not is fifty shades of fucked up.
It's not controversial to proclaim you expect a space that welcomes those who have been hunted throughout the years to welcome all those other aspects which have also been hunted in different forms and faces, for to go through life as a cookie cutter is to make oneself less than human.
Cookie-cutter is the best that can be said for this book, for I cannot say that everyone should read it.
My wife is the main breadwinner.
She works all night and I rub her feet in the morning when she gets home.
I wake my wife up with coffee and the newspaper.
I stay home with my wine and stories for company.
Reading THE FEMALE MAN by Joanna Russ was a blast.
They understand who am I, how I feel, and they wrote about it for the world to read!
And it’s a science-fiction, so only guys will read it, probably thinking they’re in for some kinky shit.
It’s a funny, spirited, passionate and weird story that was first published over 40 years ago and nothing’s changed!
This is an important book for feminist science fiction, but it's not an entirely successful one.
I very much consider myself a feminist, and I wanted to like this book, but even I couldn't entirely embrace it.
Despite the dispiriting number of the book's points about the manifold ways women are oppressed that still apply, The Female Man's brand of feminism feels somewhat dated.
In The Female Man, however, every single male character is a horrible person.) It seems like Joanna Russ has given up on any coexistence of women and men.
The Female Man has a few brilliant, insightful passages and a number of interesting ideas.
How did I miss this in college? How did this never make it to my mother's shelves? The genre divide is dangerous when a book like this is overlooked by the literary and socio-political establishments. A must read for its historical significance, but still relevant when examining the current state of gender relations. We're not there yet.
So I let the novel present itself to me on its own terms and discovered that, once I surrendered to it, I really liked it.There are four characters: Janet, Jeannine, Joanna and Jael.
And let me warn you, men, mankind, the male species, the beings with the Y chromosome, do not represent here well at all.For example, there is Cal, who is Jeannine's fiance.
The sexes live apart in Jael's world, and the men address their sexual desires by selecting certain boys to undergo surgery to change them into something resembling females.
"Remember: I didn’t and don’t want to be a ‘feminine’ version or a diluted version or a special version or a subsidiary version or an ancillary version, or an adapted version of the heroes I admire.
I want to be the heroes themselves."This is a weird book, but I was fascinated.
(Joanna's sections are strictly first person; the others are mostly in third person, unless Janet is telling a story.) There are lots of sharp observations about the absurdity of sexism.It's also an angry book, but I think that, most of the time, its anger isn't the nihilistic sort.
Four different women from alternate Earths discuss their lives.
One is from a nearer future, has claws like Wolverine, and was the impetus for Molly from Neuromancer, another beclawed female assassin.
Four stars, because The Female Man is a 1970s book with all the glory and messiness of that era.
The book is sci-fi, feminist critique, literary critique, a rant by the author, beatnik, utopian, domestic, warlike, angry, pacific.
Moreover, the author is a character who addresses readers, other characters, and the book itself.
Russ also used a few passé expressions like "grok" and "drugstore novels" that make the book both goofy and loveable.
Durante muchas décadas del siglo XX, literaturas "de nicho" como la ciencia ficción fueron consideradas, injustamente, territorio masculino: vehículos de aspiraciones y fantasías "de hombres".
Sin embargo, a partir de los años sesenta autoras como Joanna Russ abrieron el camino para que ideas menos tradicionalistas se abrieran paso en la ficción especulativa de Estados Unidos y de otros países.
Por ejemplo, esta novela explora –a partir de conceptos del feminismo– posibles sociedades humanas en las que la situación de las mujeres es diferente de la que conocemos aquí.
Si se tiene el deseo de leer con atención, el libro puede derribar más de una idea fija con esta premisa de apariencia tan simple.
