https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/490819.Tempting_Fate
4 zvezdice jer je solidna ljubavna priča i baš mi je trebalo neko jednostavno lagano štivo da se malo opustim.
Love the book, love the series. I'm having such good time rereading these books
I really enjoyed this oldie, the relationship between the two and how it developed and for a change even the heroine's doubts didn't annoy me because they made sense because of her past.
Previše njanjavo. Ali šta ću, moram da pročitam sve što mi padne pod ruku...
lagano štivo za opustiti se ;-)
Both are things Nora is a master at not doing.
I've never had a Nora book I could not read.
You can only say "yes I want this" and then immediately "no, I don't, this is all your fault go away" once or maybe twice in a book.
I couldn't stand her and when one thing happened (view spoiler)[ you share a bed with a man, roll into him and cuddle him, turn him on, have sex with him "in your sleep" then basically say its all his fault and make him feel like an ass?
Cu mult mai buna decat prima carte a seriei! Poate si unde Diana a crescut neavând parte de iubire, crezand ca fratele ei a uitat-o.Recenzia mea completa o găsiți aici: https://justreadingmybooks.wordpress....
Another MacGregor clan story, another thumbs up!!
Volumul 2 al seriei ”Familia MacGregor” ne aduce în prim-plan povestea celui de-al doilea fiu al familiei, Caine - un avocat chipeș, dar dur în sala de judecată și a Dianei Blade- avocată, sora lui Jastin, cu care nu care o relație apropiată, dar pe care soarta îi va aduce din nou împreună.
Deși Caine și Diana practică aceeași profesie și atarcția dintre ei e incontestabilă , între ei apar diferențe, prin mediul în care au fost crescuți.
Caine, care provine dintr-o familie iubitoare, este sincer și dornic de dezvoltarea relației ce se formează între ei.
Se intalnesc in momentul in care Diana se decide sa dea curs invitatiei cumnatei ei, Serena Blade nascuta MacGregor, de a veni sa o cunoasca si de a se reintalni cu fratele de care se despartise pe cand ea avea sase ani si el 16.
Justin Blade chiar s-a descurcat foarte bine pe cont propriu asa ca acum cand Diana se duce sa-l vada pe el si pe sotia lui, cei doi avea in proprietate un hotel impresionant "Comanche".
La aeroport este asteptata de fratele Serenei,Cain MacGregor, si asa fac cunostinta cei doi.
Kader Bağlayınca - Nora RobertsMayıs ayı Stars Of Romance serinde Nora Roberts'in The MacGregors ser
The second book in the MacGregor series.Tempting Fate is an outstanding book of two people who are very different and very similar. Diana Blade is a woman who's never known what a family feels like. She keeps her life separate and made and oath not to complicate her life.And then caine came along...Caine is as always a fun guy and being a lawyer makes him a strong opponent in battle so when he decided to destroy Diana’s wall for feelings things go beyond than just friendship.
Daniem MacGregor sen ne müthiş adamsın yaaa :D Şu seride hiçbir şey olmasa sırf senin için okurum :D
A MacGregor Book!This one is about Caine MacGregor and Diana Blade, who, incidentally, is Justin Blade’s sister.
Who is married to Caine’s sister, Serena MacGregor.Here’s another thing that I feel like happens more often in books and movies than in real life – siblings of spouses fall in love, too!
And also, allowing Diana to open herself up to Caine, and forgiving herself for her feelings toward Justin and how she was raised.Besides, this is a MacGregor book.
When Justin's estranged younger sister Diana is invited by Serena to visit them, she never imagined she would end up meeting Serena's charming older brother Caine.Both are lawyers by profession, and cautious by nature.It's insta attraction for them, and how they fall for each other and fight Diana's issues is the story.I loved meeting the family again.
However I felt Diana had a LOT of insecurities, and Caine had to fight tooth and nail to conquer them.
(2018) Esto es curioso esta Saga o Serie me la leí completa hace años realmente hace AÑOS!! y llevo días editando los Shelves y descubro que esta serie esta sin fechas!!! e inclompleta!! porque esta estoy 100% segura que la lei completa aun la recuerdo, asi que tuve que buscar fechas y! tengo el aproximado es mas hasta sinopsis tenia (no la recuerdo tenia)
Assim como o primeiro livro, esse livro saga dos Macgregors é surpreendente. Assim como Jogo de Sedução, Destino Tentador é um romance de tirar o folego, romântico e picante!! Um livro que mostro empodeiramento da mulher e a sua força de vontade para alcançar seus objetivos, e além de tudo de alcançar seus desejos!!
A terrific read! ☺This series is one where all the characters are believable and you just know you could be friends with them, regardless of your lack of social status. 😄I can't wait to dive into the next book.
Another Nora Roberts series I missed, The MacGregors. And again, what can I say? She writes with many twists and turns with great character development. Love her books as she usually ends all her books with a warm, fuzzy feeling. Looking forward to rest of series.
No entiendo cómo ponen tan bien esta serie porque me parece insulsa a más no poder, al menos los dos primeros libros que he leído, con "instant love" y 0 interés. Ya no le doy más oportunidades, no es para mi.
My least favourite of this series. I found both main characters to be unlikeable. The only thing that saved it, somewhat, for me at all was the appearances of family members from the other MacGregor novels.
The perfect book that reflects woman's mind and her insecurities. It also illustrates woman's hunger to prove her identity. I just love the book and the narration. The inner conflicts of Diana is much relatable.
The narrator of this audiobook did a wonderful job. It's a little dated but it's a wonderful romance.
A good read, but if NR's work is any indication, sex was terrifying in the 80's.
The second in the MacGregor series - good characters, good romance and Daniel MacGregor.
Dvoje advokata zapocinju zajednicku praksu,posao sa sobom donosi ljubav...obican ljubic
A Great Read!!I enjoyed this book very much. I loved the characters and their families. I recommend it to all. Nora Roberts rocks!!!!
Lots of laughs, a few tears and a wonderful sigh at the end.
Thus, Diana Blade, attorney at law, is invited to Serena and Justin's hotel, and there, through circumstances that one could very easily call fate, meets Caine MacGregor, another attorney at law who seems eager to get close to her and bring down her emotional defenses.
Thank God Caine treated her so coldly when she was trying to make amends, otherwise I would have lost any kind of respect I held for him...The only parts where I didn't feel like murdering her through my glaring the words on the page were the ones where she was doing her job.
Frequent.Hero: Lawyer.Heroine: Lawyer.Trigger: Domestic Violence and Rape.Enjoyable romp, heavy on the relationships, with our Hero being the first to admit to love and doing the chasing.A curious dub con episode, our hero and heroine were asleep (him naked) in the same bed and did it without really waking.
She had very definitely stated she wasn’t ready, but was fully engaged in the sleep sex.Rape case where he didn’t do it and she said he did after her father forced her.
