https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328766.A_Kestrel_for_a_Knave
I sat up.Many years later I have now read the book on which "Kes" was based, A Kestrel for a Knave, by Barry Hines.
The teacher has little power, and probably little conception of Billy's problems, or just how precious, fragile and hard-earned is his experience with the hawk.
The teacher quickly drifts out of the novel, and out of Billy's world.The book is beautifully written.
She is merely embarrassed.Reading the detailed descriptions of Nature seen through Billy's eyes, the accounts of how he trained his hawk through his own blood, sweat and tears, made me realise that this is something we have lost.
You will weep for all the Billy Caspers of this world.
Billy Casper quite literally has nothing, his brother (with whom he has to share a bed) is a violent brutal drunk, his mother has a reputation as the local bike and zero maternal instinct.
It appears that Billy's father gave attention and even love but that came to an end when he caught Billy's mother with 'Uncle Mick' and he is now out of the picture.
Using local dialect throughout brings the characters to life, while the lyrical descriptions of the countryside and of the falconry contrast with the brutal surroundings of the town and estate.
A wonderfully raw picture of Northern life. It's bleak and gritty, and written extremely well. Billy Casper is one of life's underdogs, he bears the brunt of everyone's exasperation with their own lives. This includes his bullying brother, his selfish mother, his fellow pupils at school and most of the teachers. He lives for his hawk and Kes is a metaphor for how free he wishes he were. It's a marvellous book and I couldn't recommend it more. It makes me proud to hail from South Yorkshire.
What a brilliant book this is! There are at times I didn’t comprehend the flow of story but at other times “recalling the past” was all too obvious. Now that I put the pieces together what I am left with is a compelling story in which a Kestrel served as a ray of hope in the life of a helplessly knavish boy.
I read this as part of my English Literature GCSE over 15 years ago (!) and I think our class picked this over the other options because it was the shortest.
And we got to watch the film after reading it.
This kestrel represents the only outlet Billy has from a bleak and depressing future, and documents the bittersweet moments they share together interspersed with Billy’s final months at school.
It’s depressing, yes, but there are moments of clarity for Billy when he’s watching Kes fly that brings some signs of optimism and hope.
I read this book many years ago and really enjoyed reading this book.There is also a film of this book and I thought it made very compelling viewing and was just as good as the book.
A succession of "Uncles" flit through his and his mothers life.
Billy is disinterested in school and the teachers have essentially written him off as pit fodder (England still had a coal industry at the time).
The kestrel soon becomes the anchor of his life, sole consoler amongst the rebukes and slaps and daily humiliations resulting from being small, poor and awkward in a tough arena.Billy's story is told by Barry Hines with charm and affection, without it being sugar coated.
Read for the second time at an interval of forty years.
I had forgotten just how good this book is so it was a welcome re-read.
That quarter sets the background for what is to come in the remainder, when the protagonist, Billy, goes to school and one day shows the hilarity, banality, hopelessness and tragedy that surely will be a microcosm of Billy's whole life.For me, school was not nearly so grim as for Billy, but I could relate strongly to his experience; casual cruelty (from teachers), injustice, bullying, that one teacher who is still capable of seeing pupils as human beings, fighting a losing battle against the indifference of all the others.
Is that enough?Powerful, simple writing carries this story of working class northern Britain in the 1960s to an end likely to induce despair.
3.5 starsSuch a sad little book that makes you clench your fists because of all the unfairness in the world.
Or maybe I’m older now and more sensitive to children’s misery?I loved the awful portrayal of Billy’s school because although on the surface today’s reader may shrug and with the air of superiority state that it’s thankfully a thing of the past, the portraits of the teachers and of many ridiculous rules stay the same, years after years, I can see them in the schools from the present time, better camouflaged but alive and kicking.
It is suffocating and made me tear up more than once while reading.
Once in a while I love reading such books and it hasn’t disappointed me in the slightest.
A Kestrel for a Knave is a day in the very difficult life of a young man in a terribly poor part of England.
Billy finds little happiness---not at home with his mother and brother, not at school with his (mostly) cruel teachers and taunting peers---in his life.
Because I work with many, many children who come from the 2017 American version of the main characters in Kestrel, I found the story to be like walking with a poor kid for a whole day.
This is what life is like for so many children.
A Kestrel for a Knave is a vivid picture of life for working class people everywhere.
An absolute favourite of mine. I'm dating myself but it was recommended for our O level English Literature and I fell totally in love with it. It broke all the rules I understood about writing and is so gritty yet heartwrenching. No chapters just a sit down straight through read. As skinny and forthright as Billy Casper himself. You won't regret reading it (just try finding it!)
My nephew and then my niece recently read this for their GCSEs and both hated it. The exact opposite reaction to their Mother and two Uncles. Maybe it's a generation gap thing - especially as our childhood was less comfortable and therefore maybe a little closer to that of the child in the novelIt's still one of my all time favourites.
The story of fifteen year old Billy Casper growing up in a mining town in the north of England. Billy is the product of a broken home and his life is one of bleakness and poverty. It's the violence of the book that grabs the reader here. No surprises as to the ending. A powerful and gritty story. Well worth a look at.
A masterpiece - why have I not read this before now??
The attention to detail from Billy's Pov should have had a reason; if Billy was suffering from asperger's then it would have made sense, but it's unlikely the author had such an intention since this book was written in 1968.
But the thing that almost ruined it for me was the afterword by the author Barry Hines where he expresses his sympathy with Jud, with what Jud does to Billy at the end in particular, and says he later disliked using so much "Yorkshire dialogue" (where they all talk like characters in "the room at t'top"), which I don't agree with because I think it adds authenticity.
The man was wearing a grey suit, the woman a green coat, and as they drew level with the field they merged on to the same plane, and were suddenly pursued by a red car.
Three blocks of colour, red, grey and green, travelling on the same plane, in the same direction, and at different speeds.
But, again and again, as I read this book I found myself being startled by the descriptive writing.This is another one; “The floor was covered with red and green vinyl tiles set in a check pattern.
It may be mental tiredness on my part, coupled with a touch of heat stroke perhaps, (being a wimpy Brit) which buggered up my concentration.
Who says school days are the happiest days of your life?!
I’d like to think that life was different then, a time when “Might (was) Right”.
Where these bullies are in charge of vulnerable children, abuse will inevitably follow – emotional, psychological, physical and worse.
They will be the bullies of the future.Anyway, despite the pain, I am pleased to have read it and recommend it to you.
'A Kestrel for a Knave' is very close to home for me.
There were very many personal memories that resurfaced while reading this book.
The home life too was familiar.
After school I was first home and had the chore of 'making the fire' that Hines describes in exact detail.The book was successfully adapted for the silver screen in the sixties.
Memorable for me by Mr Sugden's school football game, the part taken by Brian Glover.It is decades since I saw the film, so reading this book for the first time was a fresh experience.
False alarum - came across this book as a youngster (can't say "when I was smaller" because I didn't grow much further). I remember crying like a real cry baby at the injustice of it all and then the film was on at the local odeon and cried some more. It starred the lad who played Oliver in Lionel Bart's brilliant rendition of Dickens's masterpiece.So pretty much done and dusted.
I loved this book. I saw the movie a long time ago, and came across the book by accident.
Fictional schoolboy Billy Casper loves and depends on his kestrel in the same way Helen MacDonald depended on Mabel.
But I could empathise with Billy, feel his pain, far more readily than with H M.
there is one passage where Billy explains to his (only sympathetic) teacher and classmates how he trained Kes and how he flies his bird.
His explanation takes up no more than a couple of pages and is written in the simplest language yet I absolutely 'got' why he loved the kestrel and everything it stood for.
A just-about perfect novel about a boy who slips through the cracks of our society. He doesn't fit in any of the holes his life has supplied him with and creates his own. But, of course, it doesn't work that way. This is grim but beautifully-written.
This book left me gutted.It's about how misunderstood and alone youth can feel in the world, and the importance of compassion, empathy & understanding in a world that severely lacks such qualities.
And what does that mean for that animal, so the author can keep a realistic vision of a relentlessly hard-life, smashed on broken homes, bottles and betting-shops?
Go on, I bet you can guess.And you'd be absolutely right.(Now that I'm done being snide, I'll say that I think this is book is now supposed to be a classic.
This book = zero irony.When I was a grade-schooler back in the 80s, I never did go in for those "real-life" children's books where they stopped pandering to children and reflected real world problems like leukemia and dead parents and inner-city poverty.
I was moved through this entire book.
This book is raw and you feel for Billy.
As mentioned in an early "review" of the book I had a hard time adjusting to the speaking language, but I found myself after 50 pages or so reading it without any problems.
It became rather fun, different.His best friend is a Hawk he's trained and decides to call Kes. It truly is an amazing read, the way Hines describes Billy talking about her.
It's not even a lot of adjectives, it's just the way you know Billy talks about her, the training and his knowledge about it.
Originally called A Kestrel for a Knave, a medieval poetic reference, the simplified title of Kes for the film version now goes on the cover while the title page retains the original.My second-hand copy includes this inscription from giver to recipient- "Dear Andy, This is not marvelous literature but it is valid social comment."Very much in the vein of Alan Sillitoe or Stan Barstow, the story is a cheerless picture of Northern English working class life in a council estate in the 60s.
The sole bright spot in Billy's life are the hours spent training a kestrel hawk that he has managed to capture.
A searing look at the working class in the Yorkshire mining village of Barnsley, where hope has been virtually extinguished for a teenage boy until a kestrel comes into his life.
Be aware there is Yorkshire dialect, but don't be put off.if anything the Ken Loach film is better than the book and is highly recommended.
It pulls no punches in its depiction of life at the bottom of the pile.
For those who have seen "Cathy Come Home", the BBC drama about homelessness that was instrumental in changing the law in the UK, this has a similar look and feel to it.
Before I started, I couldn't help wondering if the effect it had had on me thirty odd years ago could possibly be repeated, since I'm now what my son describes as a 'grumpy old man' (harsh, I feel, but I do get his drift).
The panorama of 'colours'(some beautiful beyond description, others enough to burn out your eyes with despair) painted By Hines on his gritty canvas takes my breath away.To its genre classification, the following ought to be added: Heineken (remember the tag line in their commercials from long ago?)
I had an urge whilst drifting through a not-so exciting read to read a classic.
I stumbled in my mind on thoughts of English literature at school.
Read the book, watch the film, dissect the characters etc etc.
A kestrel for a knave was my choice.
I tried to establish the message in the text and the words that arise from the story.
I'd have almost love to read a prequel of the troubles and strife Billy and Jud's upbringing, father(s), mothers background and friendships or lack of them.
A great book, full of youthful nostalgia pain and sorrow snot and tears.
Brotherly love!
Beautifully written, sort of a Jack London and Roddy Doyle mixture.
