https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835444.Northbridge_Rectory
A delightful book with wonderful characters all told with subtle humour and charm.I absolutely adored it, one of her best!A little bit of romance, roof-spotting, sherry and tea parties along with the war effort.I loved it!
Northbridge is coping as best it can with the trials and tribulations of war time.
Mrs Turner's nieces are looking for love among the officers at the Rectory as is one of the Rectory's servants.
I enjoyed this book but I didn't think it was as good as others I've read by this author - maybe because I read it in very short bursts rather than reading it in longer sessions.I do think every day life in war time is well done and it really brings the problems to life and makes me realise how lucky we are in the relatively peaceful twenty first century.
In one of the insightful inner musings of one of the main characters, she wonders at how everyone accepts more and more easily the worsening shortages and demands of war as a new normal; as an American reading the book in 2011, I couldn't help wondering how we would hold up under such conditions, then OR now!Although Thirkell is often compared to Trollope, Austen and even E.F. Benson for her dry wit and characters, some critics ultimately dismiss her as not in their league.
Not my favorite Angela Thirkell, but still lots of fun. World War II drags on and our staunch Barsetshire patriots are doing their best to guard the home front. Best relationship award: Miss Pemberton and Mr. Downing, because it's so complex and interesting. Worst relationship: Mrs. Villars and Mr. Holden, because it's so tedious. (That was the point, but it doesn't make it any more fun to read about.) Best new character: Father Fewling, ex-Navy Anglo-Catholic priest.
Another cozy satire by Mrs. Thirkell.
I love (it applies to her every book) when she talked to a reader directly or just winked at us.But...
When I am thinking of the characters (Miss Pemberton, Mrs. Turner, Betty, The Other Niece, Mr. Downing, Edie, Father Fewling, Mrs. Spender) and their stories, personalities they were so...
Thirkell-ish ;-), so perfect.
Of course, there was little plot but it was in all Thirekll's novels and it didn't matter at all.Nonetheless, the truth is, I value her other books much more than this one.
I would really love to read his story.
The main things happening are that Mr. Downing, an intellectual and an author, is boarding with Miss Pemberton (an older woman in the community), and she constitutes herself his companion, proofreader, adviser, best friend, landlady, etc., and jealously tries to keep all female neighbors away from him, viewing them as distractions and snares.Also a bunch of officers are quartered at the rectory with Mr. and Mrs. Villars; the weekend visit of the major's wife is a total nightmare because she is kind of a loon.Then there are Mrs. Turner and her nieces ("Betty" and "The Other Niece"), who are hilarious and sweet.
The charming Verena Villars has had a houseful of officers billeted on the rectory, and they can be a challenge.
She also has the normal responsibilities of a rector's wife in Northbridge, even though they don't come naturally to her.
As Thirkell truly comments, it takes a rector's daughter to really understand the position.
For me the most dynamic storyline was the relationship between Miss Pemberton and Mr Downing, in which a pair of authors gradually learn what they want in life.
There is a lot about village life as ordinary citizens gear up for wartime.
Reading Northbridge Rectory I began to have my considerable doubts about Thirkell and feel less amused than uncomfortable.
I got the impression Thirkell wrote, and wrote brilliantly, primarily to show how clever she was.Northbridge Rectory includes a brilliant example of Thirkell’s comic virtuosity in the character of Mrs Spender.
Here is a social bore like Jane Austen’s Miss Bates whose rambling monologues are a crashing embarrassment for the other characters, but a delight to the readers as inconsequent garrulity is outrageously piled on inconsequent garrulity.
Unlike Mrs Spender, who repeatedly reveals her self absorption, Miss Bates is portrayed with considerable sympathy.
Quite charming, once I had a vague idea of who was who. It's a large-ish cast of characters with rather bland names for most of them. The war is on, nobody knows (not even the author!) how long it's going to last. Hardships are faced with a lot of calm and courage. They are all so very, very English!Not my favourite Thirkell, perhaps, but so far I found all her books worth reading.
This 1941 novel focuses on the Rector's wife, Mrs. Villars, and the village relationships that surround her. In her usual charming way, Thirkell dishes out humor, sometimes biting, as she writes about the local consequences of war, an atypical relationship triangle, and a lieutenant's chivalric infatuation with Mrs. Villars. Sometimes laugh-out-loud funny, at others, poignant, Northbridge Rectory is filled with characters that the reader will be concerned about and root for till the end.
This book is not as light-hearted as her earlier books as the residents of Barsetshire are now in the middle of the war and suffering the privations of rationing, but I'm still enjoying them and looking forward to reading the next instalment.
I didn't enjoy this as much as other books by the author. I struggled to get into it. Not sure if it was the war setting or if there were just too many characters...
Northbridge Rectory wasn't my favorite Angela Thirkell novel but I still liked it quite a bit.
This novel about village life in WWII England drags at points, but, as ever, it's full of perfectly imperfect characters and at least some of Thirkell's impressive wit and subtle social commentary.
Take, for example, the words of a young publisher, "I'm sick of those clever novels by women writers all about everyday life.
My trade is enough to sicken you of women altogether." I don't think I'll ever be sick of such novels, nor of clever women writers like Thirkell.
The story, for me, lacked traction -- it felt like Thirkell's narrative, which thrives on gentle ironies and insignificant edges, was, like Mrs Villiard, feeling displaced and worn out by the pressing flow of immediate, serious significances that are necessarily part of living during wartime.
The most compelling part of the story was the mini-narrative of Miss Pemberton, Mr Downing, and Mrs Turner., which introduced questions about love, gender, and intellect -- and about what draws people together and apart.
Mrs Spender's splendid lack of intuitiveness combined with her equally splendid insightful observation was another aspect of the book that added some complexity to an otherwise less endearing than usual Thirkell story.
Not my favourite of the series, but this is still a fun and clever read. The war has come to Barsetshire and it's causing chaos. There's some familiar faces - and some new ones. There's an officer's wife who has no idea how awful she is, an officer in the grips of a hopeless passion (or he thinks he is) for the Rector's Wife - who is well aware of his fixation and really wants him to go away and an array of village ladies. Very good fun indeed.
3.5 Stars. This was another of my least favourite Thirkell's. I enjoyed the characters somewhat, and Thirkell as always has a highly enjoyable writing style, but for me I just didn't connect with this Barsetshire novel as much as I have with the previous ones.
Took me a long while to get through this one. I loved Mrs. Villars, and there were several amusing moments, but altogether the book was a bit too easy to put down. This does not dampen my enthusiasm for Thirkell in the least, however!
My mommy loves these books. Tiger's mommy loves these books. My favorite customer at HPB loves these books. So, I had one, and I started reading it this morning. It's adorable and clever and funny!
Some of the character descriptions are brilliant, but yes, one can get tired of Angela Thirkell. This was not the most engaging one that I've read.
First Thirkell I read on recommendation of Bea & it was wonderful. Set in England during WWII. Lots of great characters in the little town.
My least favourite so far, but still worth reading.
OK...not my favorite AT
Possibly my favourite Angela Thirkell so far, this is truly charming and delightful, and also very funny!
One of the best of Thirkell's.
Very enjoyable! Gentle humor reminds me of Jane Austen
Thirkell has jumped ahead to the 20th century and filled her books, which span the years prior to and well after the second world war, with a delightful array of colorful characters, many of which are descendents of those we’ve met in Trollope’s novels as well.Reading one of Thirkell’s books is like returning to places we’ve been to before in order to catch up with people we’ve met in previous books – all of which have to do with a lifestyle that ceased to exist after WWII.
The war has been going on for a couple of years, and Mrs. Villars, the rector's wife at Northbridge Rectory, tries to do her best for the war effort.
So she contributes by housing officers from the nearby camp and participating in various ladylike war efforts.
The young people (officers and the young girls in the village) manage to have a good time despite the blackouts, rations and scarcity of strong drink, while the middle-aged and older folk plod along as best they can.
One of the officers bores Mrs. Villars with his worshipful devotion, which includes a great deal of insisting that she must be tired.
Found this Thirkell at Relay Books in Bethel CT with Caroline: originally published in 1941, it presents a reality of WWII when people didn't know if/when it was going to end, how it would end, or who'd win.
Not one of Thirkell's liveliest or most amusing, but it does reveal that Thirkell believes that even less-classy ("not county") people who say "ackcherly" can find love.
However, I intend to pray for you whether you know what you want or not, and for everyone concerned.'" (262).
I love it when people of faith get to be perceptive and land a few zingers.

High marks for humour and social history; low marks for appalling snobbery.
