https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106648.Memories_of_Midnight
Big Confession : I have not read the first part of this series The Other Side of The Midnight.I didn't know about it. However, Sidney Sheldon doesn't fail to give a brief introduction to every character. See, I didn't even realize it is the second part. Didn't touch my mind. So it's okay.but I'll say that if you want to appreciate this book more then you must go for the first part first!
What a painful read this has been!Everything from the plot to the writing was utterly banal.
This book didn't manage to quirk my interest at any point.
The whole thing to me seemed blatantly stupid, to be honest.Characters, along with being hackneyed were also completely unrealistic.
I've read 2 Sidney Sheldon books before this and one thing that I've found to be consistent in his novels is the dreadful writing.
The language, as always, was extremely appalling and the plot even more asinine.After this book, I seem to have developed a strong aversion to Sheldon's books, for good.
In fact I don't know anyone who writes as breezy as he does (a good thing), while throwing in as many twists and turns.I think part of James Patterson's success is due to his incredibly short chapters.
It's a good technique to keep things moving, and it allows him to jump all over the place and get inside everyone's head seemingly without effort.More than any of Sydney Sheldon’s novels, Memories of Midnight shows that the author comes from the movie and television script writing with its short scenes and generic descriptions of people and settings.The late Sydney Sheldon was the author of eighteen bestselling novels.
No matter how old the books are, or infact how many times you read them, they really keep you engaged!This book is the sequel to The Other Side Of Midnight and rotates about Catherine (Larry Douglas’s wife).
At the end of the first book she lost her memory and in this book, around a year later, she starts to regain it bit by bit.
You’ll definitely not be able to leave the book even for a second in the last 50 pages!
The end of Costa was quite unimaginable!I would definitely recommend it to everyone who hasn’t already read it, especially to those who love thriller and mystery.
To Noelle, the lady who sold out him, and Larry, the man who stole her, Demiris brought a chilling retaliation.
'Ioannina, Greece' In the disengagement of a remote religious circle a young lady rises up out of the injury of memory misfortune...
From the extraordinary shores of the Mediterranean to post-war London, 'Recollections of Midnight' is an energetic, remarkable story of a blameless lady's battle against a frightening fate In this dangerous diversion, there must be one winner...If Judd is to survive he should play the amusement to win.“It will be a honeymoon, Demiris told her.
She got the honeymoon but not the wedding.” ― Memories of Midnight
it’s just me or what…That Demiris character from first book of @the otherside of the midnight'; is completely metamorphosed from being a powerful intelligent strategy billionaire to criminal and altogether evil… In this sequel?? urgh..and Madam Catherine alexander as usual cry baby...not sure if m liking this sequel...the first book was way better.
يمكنني ان اقول عنها ممتعة رغم انها ليست بروعة كتابات سيدني
Often that scenario ends in disaster for the second book but that's not the case here.This is basically a book of double-crossing.
I mean everybody double and triple crosses everybody else in this story and so the fun of reading it becomes trying to figure out just how it's going to be done.
For those readers of the first book who were left unfulfilled because not all story lines were fully resolved or for those that needed to have justice for the "bad" guys, then this is a must read.Overall a fun book to read.
Memories of Midnight, Sidney Sheldonعنوان: خاطرات نیمه شب؛ نویسنده: سیدنی شلدون؛ مترجم: کاوه رحیمیان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، درسا، 1376، در 468 ص، شابک: 9646104118 موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی قرن 20 م
No matter how old the books are, or infact how many times you read them, they really keep you engaged!This book is the sequel to The Other Side Of Midnight and rotates about Catherine (Larry Douglas’s wife).
At the end of the first book she lost her memory and in this book, around a year later, she starts to regain it bit by bit.
You’ll definitely not be able to leave the book even for a second in the last 50 pages!
The end of Costa was quite unimaginable!I would definitely recommend it to everyone who hasn't already read it, especially to those who love thriller and mystery.
Tip for anybody wanting to read this book...
YOU HAVE TO READ PART ONE FIRST!!!
PART ONE IS OTHER SIDE OF MIDNIGHT.
YOU NEED TO READ THAT BOOK TO UNDERSTAND THIS.
both of them are GREAT!people dont like this book because they have not read other side of midnight.
both books are outstanding and are a must read for any mystery lover.
I was thoroughly gripped by this book.However...
i will give this book a lower rating only because throughout the book Catherine is getting serious with guys she does not even know.
i was not satisfied with the ending.
the ending was not what i wanted.other than that...
Not quite as the first one, but still enjoyable. It seems that each character we meet, we get their back story, which was unnecessary. I wished there was a little more complexity as in the first book.
Sidney Sheldon has always been my favourite ..I can't review it in a better way as I haven't read its first part..So I would restrain myself from expressing my thoughts on it:)
Not like anyone's seen her pic in the press from last year's Murder Trial of the Century) in his high-profile sprawling conglomerate corporation, c) hold his breath and hope she doesn't contact anyone from her past, as any normal person in her situation would do.
One guy who gets a little too close to uncovering the truth--from what Catherine personally tells him, which he fails to connect to said ballyhooed Trial of the Century; apparently HE'S been in a convent--IS murdered on the evil billionaire's orders; an old friend from the States is saved when Catherine decides against phoning him.
Setiap kali membaca novel karya Sidney Sheldon, saya selalu "ditipu" dengan berbagai cara.
Namun pada akhirnya, ia menerima ganjaran atas apa yang telah diperbuatnya di dunia.Anehnya, di novel ini Sidney Sheldon mengemukakan idenya bahwa orang-orang Amerika selalu percaya pada "happy ending", dan itulah yang membuat mereka konyol.
Realita tidak sama dengan apa yang diungkapkan dalam buku cerita, namun Sidney Sheldon dalam setiap novelnya seakan-akan mengatakan "yang baik akan menang", "kejahatan akan menerima ganjarannya", dan "pernikahan adalah sebuah bentuk dari Happy ending yang sempurna."Sidney Sheldon kebanyakan bercerita tentang wanita-wanita yang hebat dan tegar, mungkin karena itulah karyanya didominasi oleh pembaca wanita.
I had no idea that this book had a prequel until I finished it.
This is my second Sheldon book after Doomsday Conspiracy so I naturally had my expectations high.
Other characters like Melina Demiris, Syprous Lambrou, Tony Rizzoli etc kept the book going really well.
Some twists were decent enough and Sheldon used his knowledge about criminals and gave an excellent portrayal of them.
Towards the end twists turned out to be predictable and sometimes mediocre.
Some people seemed to have a liking for the 'Vintage' Sheldon but this is just the average thriller book you'll get to read.
Catherine is back and still crying like a baby and dying to fall in love!
UGH!
Hate that part of the story..Besides that...
She was so determined and I like determination.
I didn't like the ending at all!
It was so boring, non eventful, after all of the ups and downs that were placed in the books for the ending to be so blahhhh it made me mad!It was like riding a rollercoaster getting to the top where you will be dropped and then the whole park is shut down!So don't expect a superb ending.
Destroyed the glamour of the first book - The Other Side of Midnight- i felt like its not the same writer !! or maybe when he wrote it he was drunk . i wish i didn't know that there is a sequel.I really regret reading it! the previous book was my favorite and this book was disappointment I was expecting something Completely different.
It was ok. some of the characters were so stereotypical it made you cringe. This can be read in short chunks of time, which is nice if you only have a few minutes at a time to read. I don't know if I would bother to read another of his books, unless I was really bored. I recommend it to any one that wants to kill time and not have to think too hard.
wow.... i never imagined such a perfect ending. it was great i mean words cant describe it.
Bir ara yanlışlıkla elime almıştım... Çığlık atarak bıraktım!
Aπλά μοναδικός!!
Having read ''The Other Side of Midnight'' last year, I had no idea that it had a sequel.
Surprisingly, the sequel ''Memories of Midnight'' is far more hypnotic and gripping with an engaging plot.
An amazing book with a vivid tale capturing the influence and the influential and mastery over human emotions.
I personally had goosebumps and strong adrenaline rush as the story neared the climax.
About my favorite character in the book: Greek tycoon Constantin Demiris, a charismatic multimillionaire, who doesn't know the meaning of defeat and likes his plate of revenge ice-cold.
All in all, the book is an ideal best seller with its turnaround plots and twists and mystery.
I was not able to put it down. I never thought of what would happen to the charecters after the end of the first book. The story was fast paced, and it is a real page Turner. Have to admit, Sidney Sheldon's is one of the best thrillers that I have read recently.
Continuación de "Más allá de la medianoche" cierra de forma correcta la historia de Catherine, nuevos personajes y nuevas intrigas, muy entretenido y cinematográfico como es usual en las novelas del autor, libro liviano, ideal para una tarde de vacaciones.
Memories of Midnight was as good as the first part, which is not very common among books.I liked how we got to see all aspects of Constantin Demeris, and delve deeper into his life.
And the twists are pretty good.
And also, Sheldon has done a pretty decent job of familiarizing the reader with the story of the previous book and the characters.
Well, it felt a bit repetitive, but as a result this book may, as well, be read as a stand-alone.I would definitely be getting my hands on more of Sheldon's works as soon as possible.
A lovely sequel to the other side of midnight but didn’t quite hit the mark as much as it should have. It was a good read though. Catherine was a tad naive, her character annoyed me a bit. I love how it ended though. A very rewarding ending, I must say!
The interesting thing about this book is, you have to read it till the end to know how bad it is.
Constantin Demiris (known as Costa) is eager to get a revenge on Catherine (our female character) after her ex-husband (Larry) nicked Costa's mistress (Noelle).
I have read almost all of Sidney's books but never found a woman like her.
The one thing that kept me reading was I wanted to find out what Melina Lambrou (Costa's wife) was going to do to her husband, after everything he put her through.
Meh." Next thing you know, the utterly unexpected happens, leaving ur mind totally blown!
*sniff* :,,,,( U know?
After Melina's demise I was crying like anything.
Plus point : Loved the twisted ending Constantin.
not for u Demiris!)After reading the ending u'll be like...And yes u'll be smiling even though the ending's sadistic.
;-)Like, tell me people, how can u claim to love someone if u murder her, no matter what fault/sin she's done!
Sure, real "love".
(Y) Me likes.
(Y) Me likes.
(Y) Me likes.
can't smile, very tragic ending* And Napoleon's final confession took the lid off my brain!
In fact, had it not been for dear old Costa, we wouldn't have had much of a novel.I felt Sidney did a great job summing up the characters I grew to love in the first one.
Of course, if you read the first book, you know what happened to those characters, and I have to say they were sorely missed; however, if they were in this sequel, I'm not sure this book would have had the infamous twists and turns that Sidney was so well-known for doing.
