https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55734.The_Mysteries_of_Harris_Burdick
I discovered this book a few years after it was published.
It's just absolutely amazing, especially if the background story is really true about the "mystery" of Harris Burdick.
For many years I used this book as a writing and illustration prompt for my art students in upper elementary.
Each student would then choose one of the 14 drawings to write their own tale, create an additional illustration, and finally design a "book cover." I would then staple everything together.
We even had a HARRIS BURDICK party to celebrate our accomplishments.
Me encantó.
Este es un libro con micro cuentos increíbles, acompañados de ilustraciones asombrosas.
Todo me dejó perplejo, las 14 historias y los 14 dibujos.
Todo es maravilloso.
Me fascinó como con esto tu imaginación trabaja el doble y empiezas a pensar el por qué de casa situación ocurrida en el libro.
De como se llegó a ese punto y de que es lo qué está pasando en realidad.
Desde los títulos de las historias hasta los cuidados en los detalles de las ilustraciones.
Un libro encantador que tanto un niño como un adulto pueden leer y quedar maravillados.
Chris Van Allsburg is one of my must-collect illustrators, as I just love his work. He combines detail with imagination and he has never let me down. While I still rank  Queen Of The Falls  as his best, this mysterious book of wordless stories comes very close.The premise of this book is explained by a fictional backstory about drawings from a puzzling artist who never provides the stories for each illustration. Therefore, it's up to each reader to provide the possibilities and each of us could
Chris Van Allsburg is one of my must-collect illustrators, as I just love his work.
He combines detail with imagination and he has never let me down.
as his best, this mysterious book of wordless stories comes very close.The premise of this book is explained by a fictional backstory about drawings from a puzzling artist who never provides the stories for each illustration.
Therefore, it's up to each reader to provide the possibilities and each of us could certainly come up with our own explanations.
There is even a website devoted to the endless combinations.
However, I'm just there for the artwork as Van Allsburg never fails to fascinate me.
Thirty years ago (as of 1984), these drawings were presented to Peter Wenders by a man named Harris Burdick with the intent of publishing 14 stories for a children's book.
Harris Burdick procured these drawings and promised to return the following day with the stories.
He simply disappeared, never to resurface again.In viewing the illustrations of the book, one wonders what the original stories might have been.
Therefore, it is quite conceivable that one might spend hours just staring at a single picture, composing his own story, getting lost, and then come face to face with a fiercer fear, a deeper love, or maybe disappear altogether into a stranger unknown.
Beautifully illustrative and wonderfully imaginative, not only in the execution but in the way it will inspire readers to think of "the rest of the story." Each illustration is accompanied by just a few words of text--they are supposedly taken from manuscripts by "Harris Burdick" and are only one piece to the whole story...
so it is left to the readers to imagine the rest.
Though younger readers may find the black and white illustrations a lack of narrative flow a bit frustrating/boring, I think most older children would love this and it would make a fun group read as everyone could discuss their own versions of the stories/illustrations.

I find this book totally amazing.
The only word that comes to my mind after reading it is MYSTERY.
Not only is the whole story of Mr. Burdick who never returns to Mr. Wender mysterious.
In fact, every picture in this book is baffling.
The captions are so puzzling that they allow the readers to come up with a multitude of possible stories.
I enjoyed the fact that the readers are left to create the story for each picture themselves, because it is very engaging.
Yeah, it is definitely too late, because it is yet another book I must have in my home library :) .
Me recordó lo mágicas que pueden ser las formas y las palabras cuando de usan correctamente o en conjunto.Para tener tan poco texto, me hizo pensar demasiado. Lo quiero en mi librero.
I bought this book for my niece for Christmas. I’m so excited to share it with her. This was one of my favorite books as a kid. It made me feel excited and a little bit scared.
Loved it.
The old-fashioned tradition of the past returns: the author purports to believe that the real author of the pictures has disappeared and the quest to unearth some details from his life still continues.
The pictures are silent stories that have a chance to flourish in our imagination: we have no plot but a short caption.
A splendid chance to stimulate our imagination.
After all, we can spend minutes on just one picture, not actually studying it in detail, but delving into our own visualizations of the story the picture only introduces.
Beautiful art, and it's true- you can't help but fill in the blanks.
I first encountered The Mysteries of Harris Burdick years ago, when my kids were much younger.
It was at a time when we were enjoying Chris Van Allsburg's classics (I especially remember reading The Z Was Zapped many, many times; I still have it memorized).
I loved Harris Burdick, but never got a copy for our home bookshelf.
This copy will stay with us, and I'll gaze at it now and then, and smile.I think my favorite is "The fifth one ended up in France."I'm grateful to Peter Wenders, as well as to Van Allsburg and, of course, to Burdick himself.
One of our exercises was to write a story about one of several pictures he had placed around the classroom.
As a sixth grader, I chose to write a story about the little girl who was holding two caterpillars in her hand.
My story involved this little girl finding these magic caterpillars that did tricks and she trained them and that helped her get a way from the turmoil within her family involving her mother and her mom's new boyfriend.
The caterpillars were an escape for her and her little brother.
The photo came from this book.
I owe all of that to this book and Mr. Kevin Hanzlik.
The Mysteries of Harris Burdick is a picture book containing fourteen black and white drawings.
Some stand out and are easily identified, but others are a mystery and must be found through careful analysis!This is a really fun book to read-aloud to young children.
Young students will love looking at the illustrations to identify what they see.
Students were highly engaged in discussions about what they see, and then created a drawing in their writing journal with a sentence describing what they see.
I highly recommend The Mysteries of Harris Burdick to ignite imaginations that foster creative writing!
Looking for an easy quick exercise to stoke the imagination? Check this book out. Comprised of 14 illustrations juxtaposed with a mystery sentence:eg. Archie Smith, Boy Wonder....A tiny voice asked, "Is he the one?"Under the Rug....Two weeks passed and it happened again.I might use this book or something similar in workshops to inspire creativity....especially with adults!
Harris Burdick left behind 14 drawings, each with a title and a blurb about the picture. No one hasn't seen him since he dropped of his work... Now they're published, that will inspire all, give you the creeps, and make you scratch your head again and again. This book is for such a wide range of ages because creative mysteries should be explored no matter how young you are.
I found this book right before Halloween. Next year, I am going to have my students look at the incredible pictures by Chris Van Allsburg and finish the stories.
I liked when a house lifted off like a rocket...
Someday I might try my hand at writing. This is the only source of 'prompts' that I've ever seen that I can relate to. Which is odd, because generally I am underwhelmed by Van Allsburg's works.
Have you ever read a book when you were really young and then forgot about it to the point that you thought you imagined the whole thing?
I remember being really creeped out by the pictures, but also really fascinated.
I recently discovered it again, and it's just as eerie as I remember it to be.
So much imagination.
I love it.(I must say that Under the Rug is the one that unnerves me the most.
What is under the rug???
Really interesting drawings and the story is eerie and fascinating.
The Mysteries of Harris Burdick by Chris Van AllsburgThe brilliance of anything someone recommends is that there is the slim chance you might just have that little connection when you both love it as much as one another.
How do the new captions change your interpretation of the pictures?•	Invite students to create their mysterious drawings and captions by providing a caption for them to create their own drawing •	Alternatively, ask students to create their own drawing and caption•	How does the letter Chris Van Allsburg writes to readers affect the way we read the book?
“The Mysteries of Harris Burdick” is a brilliantly surreal book from Chris Van Allsburg and it is full of various stories that a mysterious man named Harris Burdick leaves behind for Chris Van Allsburg’s friend Peter Wenders to read over and the stories that the mysterious man leaves are only drawings that have titles and small captions under the titles.
“The Mysteries of Harris Burdick” is a beautifully surreal book that will enchant children for many years.Chris Van Allsburg had done a magnificent job at reviving this lost collection of stories from Harris Burdick.
However, I think all readers can appreciate the greatness of Van Allsburg's recreation of Burdick's images; even if you don't want to make up a story, you are still inclined to notice the care that went into creating each illustration, which may ultimately make you wonder about the depicted scenario.
In general, this is a very unique reading experience, which is why I think it is worth a try with any type of child, whether they are typically imaginative or not; it forces readers to do most of the work, but at least this means that no matter how many times you pick this book up, you will never read the same story twice.
About 30 years ago, Mr. Burdick came to Mr. Wenders office to offer 14 written stories for which he had drawn many pictures for, and had brought one for each story to see if Mr. Wenders liked them.
However, the pictures are so well done, and with a little nudge from the titles and captions, it is hard not to look at these images for any length of time without imagining how the story might have played out.Summary: The book presents a series of loosely related drawings, each accompanied by a title and a caption, which the reader may use to make up his or her own story.
As a part of that author visit, teachers create workshops that focus on different aspects of writing.
This year, I decided to try something new!The Mysteries of Harris Burdick by Chris Van Allsburg is a truly unique book.
The preface to the story is that the drawings that followed were a part of a book that was lost.
But, the caption isn't enough to truly explain all that is going on in the picture.
It's been done before, but Van Allsburg stunning picture book provides a wonderful opportunity to help get students writing.
The drawings are poster sized, so students can see the illustrations in closer detail.
Is the introduction about the author and illustrator, Harris Burdick, true or was it created to set the mood of the book?
I choose to believe the story of Burdick is true because I think it gives the illustrations a deeper and more mysterious meaning.
The titles and captions of each illustration, all found on the left side of the double page spread, are black text on a white background with a simple black border.
The text gives the reader a clue about each illustration that can sends anyone’s imagination into overdrive.
With an idea per page, this tiny book reminds me of Calvino's If on a winter's night...
While Calvino has exhausted his ideas with words, the daring of Harris Burdick is remarkable, for it can induce the most dangerous of dreams or inspire a wonderful, wonderful story in the reader's mind.
You open a page and keep looking at it, mediate on the mysterious sketch, and turn the page only when you have a fluid story in your head, even if it takes hours to do so.
In here, dear reader, in just 14 pages, are packed infinite stories, if only you know how to read them.
This is an intriguing picture book. There are no words but it has well-crafted pictures that capture a moment of mystery. This book could be used from 3rd grade through high school to trigger the imagination. Students could work on there own storytelling/writing skills through a response to this book.
For the illustrations alone I give 5 stars and this wonderful book really opens your imagination without effort. This book really brings out the kid in me. The excitement I felt imaging what could possibly come next and knowing that I can come up with my own ending is just priceless. I forget sometimes how fun it is to read great children's books.
Много съм впечатлена: мистификация, приключение, прозорец към зрача на фантастичното. Свободно реещо се въображение в няколко миниатюрни объркващи изречения, придружени с още по-объркващи картини. Не съобщава, а отключва. Ако трябва да извадя имена от най-личната си практика, до които да го наредя, веднага го слагам между Будзати и Шон Тан.
