https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/506268.The_Warriors
The Kent Family saga continues in this 6th book of the series.
Gideon Kent after enduring years of torture in a prisoner of war camp and loss of an eye tries to find his way supporting his family by working on the railroads only to see his role as an organizer of labor, hated though he may be for that.
Louis Kent who sees himself as the rightful head of the Kent empire worms his way into any business deal that may add to his empire and more importantly to his power hungry ego, but he sides with men who are equally power grabbing maniacs.All of this is set in the last years of the Civil War and in the years afterwards when the nation was in utter turmoil.
As the sixth volume of the Kent Family Chronicles, The Warriors doesn’t lose any of the passion and action of the preceding five books.
One of the great things about this series (in my opinion) is that it is difficult to say that one was so much superior to another.
The Warriors is set in a continuation of the Civil War and its aftermath.
I would still recommend this book (and in fact the whole series) to everyone that loves a great story and a gripping read.
Jerimiah arrives at his CO's home, to his wife Catherine, and he falls for his beautiful but mysterious daughter Serena, who attempts to draw him into a web of lust and murder.Michael Boyle off in another part fighting the war, shortly after falling in love with Hannah, an immigrant girl from Germany, and later becoming a worker for the Transcontinental Railroad.We don't hear too much about Matthew Kent (Fay and Jephtha's 3rd child), but I have a feeling that will change in the next book.And last but not least, Louis Kent (Grrrrrrr)!
Volume 6 of the Kent Family Chronicles covers the end of the Civil War and those first few years after.
So what's up with the Kent family?Jerimiah Kent brings a message to his deceased commanding officer's wife and helps her and her daughter prepare for the Union troops under Sherman to come through.
Artist in Paris.Gideon Kent is tortured as a prisoner of war and after the he helps develope a union to attempt to right the wrongs employees suffer.Louis Kent is running with the big financial dogs in an attempt to gain control of the Erie RR.
Shortly after I finished the fifth book in John Jakes' Bicentennial Series, The Warriors. This book focuses on Gideon Kent, a former Confederate soldier now struggling in the dangerous rail yards in New England, as well as honorary Kent family member Michael Boyle, worked on the transcontinental railroad. Gideon's younger brother Jeremiah also makes an auspicious appearance. Notably (or perhaps not *g*), this is the second Jakes book I will have to replace after reading it to the point of it literally falling apart. Yep, love my John Jakes!
The Civil War is finished but not in everyone's minds. The struggle's of the Kent family continue as the book meanders through American History in the late 1860's.We are now following more parts of the family tree in parallel and essentially running out of ideas and ideals.
Opening up with the battle of Chancellorsville, this novel picks up the Kent family as the Civil War is nearing its end.
Meanwhile in New York City, Louis has married a woman from a very influential family and is busy expanding the Kent family assets.
How will the end of the ware effect the remaining Kent family members?
Will the two different sides ever reconcile?This, the 6th book in the Kent Family Chronicles covers a very bloody and dissident chapter in American history.
This is a very well-researched novel and it does an incredible job at portraying the effects the war had on families.
It follows Michael Kent Boyle as he works laying track for the push to get the railroad out West.
It also follows Gideon Kent who sees the injustice in workers vs.
Though I realize this book is based during a very violent time in our country's history and I'm sure John Jakes's research is correct, I really didn't enjoy reading of all the bloodshed and the violence that man forces on his fellow men and women without any sense of guilt or shame.
But those were the times.I do enjoy this series by John Jakes and am hoping for a little less violence in book #7.
Wonderful series of booksWhen the series of Kent books were published many years ago I read then and I enjoyed them very much. Reading the books again after nearly 35 years I've enjoyed them even more. Covering all the major stages of the growth of America experienced through the lives of one family is so fascinating. For lovers of historical fiction you'll enjoy John Jake's attention to details of all the important stages of the development of America. It's well researched and for the most part accuratee.
This volume details the lives of Jephtha Kent’s sons Gideon, Jeremiah and Matthew during and after the Civil War. We also meet again Michael Boyle, longtime friend of the northern Kents as he helps the Union Pacific Railroad advance their tracks toward the Pacific coast. This part was particularly interesting for me as the storyline takes the reader to Nebraska between Omaha, Grand Island and Kearney. Louis Kent, Amanda’s son, continues his scheming to get richer though his greed gets to him in the end.
The usual great historical novel by JakesLike all of John Jakes historical novel, although fiction, it contain historical fact. This story holds the reader where the reader can't put the book aside easily. Great reading, JAKES paints a picture of an important era of American history.
Slogged through this one.Not my favorite book of the series. I did learn what "Hell on wheels" actually means. It was slower than the rest . Not deterred from finishing the series however.
This volume finishes the Civil War and encounters both the builders and financiers of the Railroads. Again there are members of the Kent family in many parts of the country fighting various types of battles.
A family can survive when they are a true family.Another great book about a fictional family and actual historical events. The author has worked his magic once again and brought history to life again. I highly recommend the reading of all books by the author John Jakes.
My favorite one so far. Sets up the union struggle nicely for volume seven.
Set during the civil war, this book is a chronicle of the Kent family and an epic journey back to another time.
The volume covers the Kent family adventures during and shortly after the Civil War. Keep the reader interested and anticipate the final two book in the series.
John Jakes never fails to deliver.
I read 100 pages and still couldn't get interested. Maybe another time, we shall see....so many good books out there.
Read all of the Kent books back in the 70s
a historical accountI could not put this book down. I would have loved to have John Jake as a history teacher .
7 out of 10
These comments address The Kent Family Chronicles, the entire series of eight books, in audiobook format.
Tempo and pacing fine, albeit the narration is a bit slow for my taste, bumped it to 1.25.The entire series is a broad spectrum history of the United States from just pre-Revolutionary War through the 1890s and a chronicle of the Kent family through this time.
All the instances that involve the Kents and John Jake’s other fictional characters are products of his imagination.
Several of these books were adapted for television mini-series, popular at the time.John Jakes is a terrific historical fiction author, recommended.
It deals with the Civil War and exposes the death and destruction that war brings.
One thing I want to mention to potential readers is that these books were written right after the end of the Viet Nam war (mid 1970's).
Thousands of young people had died during the Viet Nam war and the author repeatedly drives home the utter waste and brutality of war.
The "flag waving" evidenced in these books prior to the Civil War is indicative of the political rhetoric that Americans were exposed to prior to the Iraq invasion in 2003.
Book Six takes us into the thick of the Civil War and details what happened to Gideon and Jeremiah, the Kent brothers. We also find out Louis's fate; among other things, he gets divorced, which becomes important later on.I forget other details. After a while, the books kind of blur together into one long tale.
Usually after six books in, a series starts to lose steam except for a book or two down the line.
For Jakes, he's starting to come into his own as a historic fiction novelist.
I grew up with Jakes' North and South trilogy, and in the The Warriors he is starting to tell more than one characters tales.
Half the books deals with the end of the Civil War, and the second half deals with the building of the Transcontinental Railroad, and the Erie Takeover scheme of 1868 by Jay Gould, and Jim Fisk.
Unlike earlier works that only dealt with one or two characters the action in this tome follows the clan over the continent.
"Following the final order, and dying wish, of his commanding officer, Corporal Jeremiah kent has left his confederate regiment to deliver a letter to the officer's wife and daughter at the plantation called Rosewood.
After trekking across war-ravaged Georgia, Jeremiah arrives at Rosewood to find a rift between mother and daughter - and the plantation slaves eager for the freedom a Northern victory promises.
And with Union troops burning their way through Atlanta, and plundering every acre in their path, Jeremiah fears for the future of the South - as well as the future of his family on both sides of the conflict..."
Book VI of The Kent Family Chronicles. Civil War.----------Another fabulous book in the Kent Family Chronicles. This episode in the family's saga covers the end of the Civil War, Reconstruction, expansion west, and troubles in the east. As in every family, there are scoundrels, idealists, and warriors of every kind. It had been a while since I read the previous Kent Family book, but as soon as I picked this one up, it was like meeting with old friends, and I easily slipped right back in to the family and Jakes' rhythm of storytelling and history. I LOVE these books!
The Warriors by John Jakes'I really enjoyed this book, the myths surrounding the building of the Railroad across this country. It's easy to think of only west in this time period, which is only a fraction of the story! The merging of the North and South politics are still with us today. It's no wonder our country is still divided in our politics! These books will make most people more curious about our history, and that's a good thing! These are easy books to read and rewarding!
FABULOUS SERIES!!
