https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/361459.An_Unquiet_Mind
i was reading some reviews of the book written by people that disliked this.
i just want to say, that for a person suffering from mental illness, the fact that you know jamieson's full CV and her academic struggles is important.
it does a lot to irradicate the stigma against mental illness, and no doubt she met people in academia who had read her book but never met her, and formed opinions that might be less than true.
those things aside, this book came to me at a very important time in my life.
i've read everything she's written, but this is perhaps my favorite.
الإكتئاب- بطريقةٍ ما، متسقٌ كثيرًا مع أفكار المجتمع عن المرأة تستطيع أن تتحدث بقدر ما تريد عن هذه المرأةعن صمودها وقوتها وشجاعتها وجرأتهاولكن أتعرف ما هي الكلمة الوحيدة العالقة بذهني كلما صادفت هذه السيرة أمامي"الحنــــان"هذه قصة دلالتها الأولى أنك بالحب الكافي ممن حولكبدعمهم إياك وإيمانهم بكيمكنك تحدي المستحيلوالوقوف مجددا على قدميكمهما كنت قد مررت بصعاب ومحنوحتى إن كانت بقايا مرض لعين تنهش في خلايا عقلكبالحنانوالحنان فقط يمكننا هزيمة أقسى التجارب رأيت ..تعابير الألم الرهيب في عيون النساءجزءٌ م
ثلاثون عامًا قضتها كاي تعاني مرضها‏ ثلاثون عامًا مضت في وجع وعقاقير ومحاولات انتحارولكنها عاشت حياتها كأحسن ما يكونعاشت حياة يتمنى أغلبنا لو عاشهالم تتوقف عن عملها كطبيبة نفسيةنعم ‏ما سمعته صحيحلم يسحبوا رخصتهاوأصبحت في النهاية مستشارة في نفس المرض ‏لتعين أشقائها في الإنسانية على اجتياز محن مرت هي بها مثلهمنجحت كاي وبتفوقأتدري لماذا؟نعم أصبتكلمة السر:‏الحنان
“I am tired of hiding, tired of misspent and knotted energies, tired of the hypocrisy, and tired of acting as though I have something to hide.” An Unquiet Mind: A Memoir of Moods and Madness is an honest and profoundly dramatic memoir that reveals the challenges and sufferings faced by people that suffer from bipolar disorder. Kay Redfield Jamison herself endured the dangerous highs of euphoria mixed with the lows of depression. Her professional success as a clinical psychologist coupled with h
An Unquiet Mind: A Memoir of Moods and Madness is an honest and profoundly dramatic memoir that reveals the challenges and sufferings faced by people that suffer from bipolar disorder.
Kay Redfield Jamison herself endured the dangerous highs of euphoria mixed with the lows of depression.
Shyness goes, the right words and gestures are suddenly there, the power to captivate others a felt certainty.
Feelings of ease, intensity, power, well-being, financial omnipotence, and euphoria pervade one's marrow.
Everything previously moving with the grain is now against-- you are irritable, angry, frightened, uncontrollable, and enmeshed totally in the blackest caves of the mind.
An Unquiet Mind is good medicine for literate, intelligent people who would be successful in maintaining jobs and relationships if they could manage their symptoms, who fear that their diagnosis is a death sentence for their chances at a "normal life." I think Jamison does an excellent job of showing how this struggle to live with a severe mental illness plays out, and of getting across how difficult it is to accept the realities and limitations of one's disease in the interest of reclaiming the sense of self and real life that disease has jeopardized.Actually, a lot of the most annoying and boring parts of this book -- e.g., Jamison's emphasis on her tiresome love affairs and her tic of constantly reminding us how great she is -- are much of what I want certain of my clients to read.
‘I worked on a locked ward at the time, and I didn’t relish the idea of not having the key.’ The author suffers from manic depressive illness (who chooses this coin of phrase as opposed to bipolar disorder, and I tend to agree with her). She is a brilliant mind, an academic and health care professional and absolute authority on this subject; she lives and breathes the disease but is able to treat her patience with complete and utter understanding. This is Kay’s memoir, and it is just simply ver
The author suffers from manic depressive illness (who chooses this coin of phrase as opposed to bipolar disorder, and I tend to agree with her).
She is a brilliant mind, an academic and health care professional and absolute authority on this subject; she lives and breathes the disease but is able to treat her patience with complete and utter understanding.
She has ridden the extreme mania highs and suffered the almost deadly depressions and tells her story with eloquence, humour and authority.
‘No pill can help me deal with the problem of not wanting to take pills; likewise, no amount of psychotherapy alone can prevent my manias and depressions.
As I go back through blog posts, Twitter feeds, book reviews, etc., it amazes me how difficult a time *I* was having...
I seemed to remember it as being immensely insightful the first time I read it, but consider that that was immediately after my husband's initial bipolar 1 diagnosis.
Now, several years of living with a bipolar spouse later, I read it and think, "Meh." I have tremendous respect for Jamison as a leader in this field of study, but I can't figure out what she was going for in this memoir.
" كارل ردفيلد" أستاذة الطب النفسى في كلية الطب ومن أهم خبراء مرض ذهان الهوس الأكتئابي ..هل يكفي سيدت
قبل البدء: اقرأ الكتاب ولا تسقط الأعراض على نفسك، فتتوهم- كما يفعل البعض- إصابتك بالمرض!!اختارت كاي 
I doubt sometimes whethera quiet & unagitated lifewould have suited me -- yet Isometimes long for it.~Byron The Chinese believe that before you can conquer a beast you first must make it beautiful. An Unquiet Mind: A Memoir of Moods and Madness is a memoir about living with manic depression by Kay Redfield Jamison, who is a clinical psychologist and professor of psychiatry at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Kay prefers the term manic depression to bipolar disorder because it
Kay prefers the term manic depression to bipolar disorder because it is both more expressive of her experience and, ultimately, more clinically accurate.This well-written memoir covers the various events of Kay's life, while the illness shapes her life forward.
But, normal is boring.]As Kay states "there is a profound need for a change in public perception about mental illness." This is not something to be kept quiet about, anymore.
We all have to read, learn and understand about this illness - mental, emotional and psychiatric.
Aren’t I charming?I use lots of adjectives, such as black and bleak, to describe my depression.My family and friends support me and love me.
My sister deals with manic depression as well, but she does not support me and she is against Lithium – she is such a bitch and I don’t talk to her anymore.
I recognize that manic episodes and depressive states are not the same for everyone, but there was something dubious about Jamison’s account.


Just seeing how she was able to achieve such professional success while privately dealing with such hellish, frightening moments of near insanity is enough to be massively impressed.If you've ever looked at the world and thought it was so full of amazing things that you couldn't sleep for days, or alternatively, if you've ever spent days just imagining every single living thing on the earth dying slowly (I believe she actually describes compulsively thinking of this during high school), then the feelings aren't that new.
But she paints a cohesive picture of what it's like to live as a never-ending captive to these see-sawing feelings.
خلل مدمر في التوازن الطبيعي يدعوا الكثيرين لتلقيب مرضى ذهان الهوس الاكتئابي بالمجانين!كان تأليف هذا الكتاب مبادرة من كاي لأخذ الخطوة الاولى في توعية المجتمع الامريكي في ذلك الوقت عن المرضى النفسانين و تغير كل المفاهيم السائدة التي اعتبرت -ولا زالت تعتبر في بعض المجتمعات- المرض النفسي وصمة عار!
قد يستغرب القارئ في بادئ الامر عن الاسباب التي ادت بالكاتبة الى الاصابة بهذا المرض.
فبالاضافة الى "مصداقية" الترجمة وتناسقها اضاف حمد العيسى الكثير من الهوامش (حوالي 150) التي تساعد القارئ العربي على فهم امور عديده ما كاد ليدركها في حال انه قرأ النسخة الانجليزية.
This was overrated. I learned very little about what it's like to actually have manic-depression; Dr. Jamison preferred to write about her love life and her visits to England. She glossed over her suicide attempt and the only description of hospitalization is that of one of her patients. Also, the memoir skips back and forth in time and it's irritating. There are better books out there.
Due to the source of the suggestion and the author of the book, an expert on and individual with bipolar disorder, I expected some practical insight into living with this disease.
My inner lit snob simply won't shut up.What seriously complicates my opinion of this book, however, is whether the author intended to give hope to individuals with bipolar depression.
I found myself highly skeptical of the author's management of the illness considering her unlimited access to psychiatric treatment and information from experts.I think this book may be more useful to friends and family of people with bipolar disorder than those trying to dig their way out from mania or depression.
ولأني أصبت في فترة سابقة باكتئاب استمر معي لسنوات أدراك هذا الوصف جيداً، أفهمه وأستشعره بل وصفته بشكل أفضل في خاتمتها أيضاً "ليس ثمة شيء جيد يمكن أن يقال عنه سوى أنه يعطيك خبرة عن كيفية أن تكون عجــوزاً.. عجــوزاً ومريـضاً، ومشرفاً على الموت، وبطيء التفكير ونكداً. كما أنه لا يمنحك القدرة على الإيمان في مستقبل الحياة.."ومع ذلك لن أدرك كغيري معاناتها.. لا أحد يفهم ما لم يعاني منه
the ways in which KRJ thinks about mental illness are not always congenial with mine, but this is a brave, beautifully written, and still very powerful book, many such memoirs later.
i am not going to research this but i think this book became a bestseller.although not herself a psychiatrist (her degree is in psychology), KRJ is a professor of psychiatry and her narrative of madness hinges on the unquestioned premise that bipolar disorder is a biological illness (she doesn't like the word "bipolar disorder," which had already been introduced in the DSM at the time of the book's writing, and prefers to refer to the condition as manic-depressive illness).
I read An Unquiet Mind because I wanted to learn more about bipolar disorder.
Don't get me wrong--I wasn't expecting a memoir about bipolar disorder to be some kind of party.
But I think I may have read too many beautiful memoirs by poets and novelists to be particularly impressed by the workmanlike writing in this one.
All in all, the mediocre writing style made this book a slog.On the plus side, I do feel that I learned a lot about bipolar disorder from An Unquiet Mind.
وكنت أسعد مما أظن لأني نشأت بين طموحين ومحبّين للطموحين “” عالمٌ يتوقّع منك أن تضحّي برغباتك وتسيطر على نفسِك ورغباتِك في سبيلِه”” إنّ الإرادة والعزم والمسئولية هي مايجعلُنا أكثرَ سموّاً كبشرٍ في وجودنا، لكلّ عاصفة رهيبة صادفتني كانت أمّي بحبها وإحساسها القويّ بالقيم تمدّني برياحٍ مضادة ومساندة قوية”“بعد كل ما بدا أنّه موتٌ في عقلي أو قلبي عاد الحبّ لِـ يعيدَ خَلْقَ الأملَ ويستردّ الحياة” ” ًأشكّ أحياناً إنْ كانَتْ حياةً هادئة وغيرَ هائجةٍ ستناسبني..
ومع ذلك أتوقُ إليهَا أحيانا”“إلى أيّ مدى يمكن لمشاعرِنا أن تأخُذ صفاتَها وهي تهبطُ إلى القاع؟”” يصعب على أيّ إنسانٍ يعاني مرضاً مزمناً او غير مزمنٍ أن يستمرّ بتناول الدواء تماماً كما وُصِف له، فـ بِمجرد تحسّن أعراض المرض يصبح الأمر أكثر صعوبة”“علم الفينومينولوجيا: هو طريقة جديدة لوصف الوعي أو الشّعور وتحليله”” في عالم يزداد تفاهةً يبدو هو كالفرسِ الأصيل"

Kay Redfield Jamison hardly needs an introduction here; her life and work stand for themselves.
She literally 'wrote the book' on bipolar disorder with co-author Fred Goodwin, M.D. called, simply enough, "Manic-Depressive Illness." So this book, "An Unquiet Mind," is not a clinical study of bipolar disorder.
It is a deep and personal inside look at what it's like to live with manic depression from the unique viewpoint of a brilliant practitioner who has the condition herself - a combination the medical profession has always considered unacceptable.
Jamison literally risked her medical career by publishing this book.
This book may save your life.
عقل غير هادئ لم أكمل هذا الكتاب لكن قد يكونعنوان مؤلم بالنسبة للكثير ربما لم يجرب أغلبنا ولا يعلم ما معنى عقل غير هادئالهدوء يعني السكينة والاطمئنان و السكون واضافة غير يعني العكس تماما وعندنا قد يتهم صاحب هذا العقل بنقص الإيمان أو الجنون كمصطلح وليس كحالة -لأن ذلك أرحم - وقد يكون حاله سبب للاستهزاء والضحك و مطية لتعليق كل اتهامات الاستهتار قد يحكم على كل شخص تغيرت حالته الاجتماعية أو الدراسية أو غيرها بشتى الاتهامات لتصل الى اتهامه بالانحراف والكفر حتى لدينا...
من أجمل و أصدق ما قرأت ، كتاب في قمة الجمال و الروعة.تصف الكاتبة معاناتها الشديدة و الطويلة مع مرض م
I really enjoyed this book. It’s incredibly well written. The author: She’s truly brilliant. She comes across as completely honest and she allows herself to be vulnerable in the telling of her story, which makes her exceedingly likeable. Kay Redfield Jamison is a psychiatrist, an authority on bipolar disorder, and suffers from the condition herself. And she’s written a terrific book about bipolar disorder and her life experience. And no, I’m not using too much hyperbole!
حيث استوقفتني الحياة المنطلقة الحماسية الدافئة والسعيدة التي تمتعت بها د.كاي في طفولتها وحياتها الأولى ،والتي تصفها قائلة:"لقد كان عالماً صغيراً دافئاً ومنعزلاً."-" خلال فترة مراهقتي،كنت محظوظة لأني وجدت التشجيع الجاد بخصوص اهتماماتي الطبية والعلمية، ليس فقط من والداي والأطباء في مستشفى أندروز، ولكن من الكثير من أصدقاء العائلة كذلك.
قبل ذلك بدأ والدها يعاني من نوبات الهوس الإكتئابي، كذلك عانت منه -في عمر- صغير أختُها الكبرى،مما جعل حياتها صعبة وسوداوية منذ الصغر ولم يتسنى لها-بعكس د.كاي- أن تحظى بفترة مراهقة طبيعية خالية من السوداوية والألم، وهو ما تصفه قائلة: "ربما لأن نضالي العنيف مع الأمزجة السوداوية لم يبدأ إلا بعد أن كبرت فقد منحت وقتاً أطول للتمتع بعالم لطيف وأقل خطورة وكان حقاً بالنسبة لي عالماً مدهشاً مليئاً بالمغامرات.
"There's no easy way to tell other people you have a manic-depressive illness; if there is, I haven't found it...I am tired of hiding, tired of misspent and knotted energies, tired of the hypocrisy, and tired of acting as though I have something to hide."Me too, Kay. Me too.
I never talk about my manic-depressive illness.
If someone close to you has a mental illness, read this book, and they will feel less alone.
“If you have bipolar illness, this book will help you to forgive yourself for everything that has gone awry; if you do not, it will perhaps show how a steely tenacity can imbue disasters with value, a capacity that stands to enrich any and every life.”
لو كنت محررة لحذفت نصف محتواه وما تضرر؛ فقد تكرر المحتوى في نواحي عده؛ لكنه رفيق جيد ويستحق بعض وقتك
First published in 1994, this book highlights Jamison's bravery: with such a prestigious academic position and a CV full of work related to manic-depressive disorder, she risked her reputation and her ethos by writing this wonderful, heart-wrenching volume.The Chinese believe that before you can conquer a beast you first must make it beautiful.
Even though Jamison contended with manic-depressive illness for several of the most important years of her life, she still earned success and acclaim.
Powerful and honest writing sets An Unquiet Mind apart from other books, and I look forward to reading more of Jamison's works.*review cross-posted on my blog, the quiet voice
