https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81078.Snow_White_and_Rose_Red
Their motives are never really explained, but since they're evil I suppose their aspiration is just to be evil and do harm to the good people/gain POWER OVER FAERIE.A few times it seemed like there wasn't enough time to write a scene, so things are moved along/explained not by the characters themselves but by the omniscient narrator.
"Blanche's sudden, uncharacteristic burst of feeling met with a puzzled glance from Hugh, an exchange not lost on the Widow."There are many similar gestures and expressions that are carefully described as to make abundantly clear that some people are in LOVE, some people are SHIFTY, etc.
Once upon a time Patricia Wrede wrote a new take on an old fairy-tale. But this wasn't an ordinary modern re-imagining, for there was no contemporary slang and precious little fracturing. The story starred a pair of mortal sisters; one adventurous, one pragmatic. For love interests there were a pair of half-mortal brothers similarly mirrored. Opposing the heroes emerged a cabal of bumbling magical creatures led by an elitist lady-in-waiting. She was intent on ruining everyone's fun and building
The story starred a pair of mortal sisters; one adventurous, one pragmatic.
For love interests there were a pair of half-mortal brothers similarly mirrored.
She was intent on ruining everyone's fun and building a wall between the fairy and the mortal worlds.
Think of her scheme as a plotting mash-up of Voldemort, Malvolio and Donald Trump.Wrede set her story in Elizabethan England and structured it like a Shakespearean comedy with long conversations typically featuring three or more interlocutors.
Even the language exuded more of a Shakespearean than Brothers Grimm style.Ultimately, this is light entertainment with some peculiar twists.
Living in the village of Mortlak are two sorcerers whom the girls accidentally spy casting a spell that unwittingly traps the spirit of the younger son of the Queen of Faerie in first a lamp and then a crystal.
The Queen's older son, John, sneaks out of Faerie in search of a way to save his brother, Hugh, meanwhile a trio of human-hating faeries plots to steal the lamp and crystal and break the bonds holding Faerie to the mortal world.The language is fabulous--very much how I think Elizabethan English might have sounded.
Patricia Wrede is generally a fantastic writer, but this is quite a bit different from her usual work.
The mix of a fairy tale and an Elizabethan historical fantasy are an interesting experiment that I think are even better than her usual genre.
For those who love the fairy tale in its traditional form, this is a fabulous gift, the ablility to find "another fairy tale".
Snow White and the Red Rose is a fabulous example of a modern writer trying to dilute the essence of the fairy tale and make it into a modern book form.
If I gave stars based on how much I loved a book when I was 15 this one would get 10.
PCW did a good job with the language -- I appreciate it more now than I did as a teenager, especially since it's so rare that anyone even bothers to try.
She did her historical homework and blended history and fairy tale seamlessly.
I started off giving this book four stars because I was trying to be temperate and mature.
So for lovely language, and lovely story-telling, and good history, and especially for dealing accurately with pre-modern witchcraft, I'm giving this book five stars.
I thought the pros were well done. It took me a little while to understand all of the conversations as the characters speak in Elizabethan England's English. I was disappointed in the character development. I didn't get to know the characters or how their relationships developed. I felt that they were kind of stagnant - not much character growth to speak of.
Like, if I wasn't reading this with Alyssa & Amy, I probably would have easily been scared away by the language alone (thee!
I’m not used to the language so yes, it did affect my read a little bit because I had to concentrate more, but overall, the book was very enjoyable!SNOW WHITE AND ROSE RED is actually one fairy tale I remember reading as a kid (at least I THINK I read the original…) and it stuck out in my mind.
In front of the cottage was a garden wherein stood two rose-trees, one of which bore white and the other red roses....Rosamund and Blanche are the daughters of a poor widow in a small town in Elizabethan England; the three of them gather herbs from the woods to make remedies for the citizens of Mortlak.
When the favored son of the Queen, Hugh, has his faerie-essence stolen and is exiled from his home, John goes against his mothers wishes and follows his brother to save him.
you know it's not a good book when all you can think is 'when is this going to end'!
I had no expectations for this book, but the story really could have been good, but it just wasn't written in a very reader-friendly text.
And, the particular dialoge the writer chose to include was just ridiculous at times.Next thought, why does the cover only picture one girl, when the story is Snow White and Rose Red?!?!??
The entire time I was reading this, that drove me crazy.
It's just a waste of time, and 2 stars is probably being generous.
A beautifully retold tale, if at times a little overelaborate.
Robin is the best character -- everyone else is a little flat, and the Faerie characters are slightly cliched (beautiful, icy, heartless, cold, unearthly, &c &c).
The Fairy Tale series is great (the first one I read in it was the incomparable Tam Lin) and I especially liked how excerpts from the original fairy tale stand as epigraphs to each chapter of this novel.
I think this is only the second or so book I've read by Wrede -- I've heard very good things about the Dragon and Sorcery series.
I didn't make it past the first chapter. I was so disappointed because I have loved other works by Wrede. I just couldn't get past the dialogue. First it was "thees and thous" in one paragraph and then "you and yours" in the next! Stick to one or the other.
Overall, a really great fairy tale re-telling.When I first read this book, I made the mistake of completely missing the point that this fairy tale was being placed in a pseudo-historical story.
I spent a large portion of it being exasperated that Wrede had concocted such lame antagonists (with dumb names, which I thought quite unlike her - she usually uses and creates wonderful names).
Once I made the connection that there was real history involved, I found it fascinating.
I think she did a wonderful job blending genres and creating a plausible place in history for this tale.
In the fairy tale, Snow White uses her sissors to cut off the dwarf's beard to rescue him from the tree and the fish.
In this tale it is a whole new character, the brother of the enchanted bear, who does the rescuing.
One of the nice things about this particular fairy tale was the sisters cleverness and independence, a thing not often seen in fairy tales.
Usually we read about damsels in distress and knights or princes who save the day not clever women who save the prince.Still, it was an enjoyable read and very cleverly done.
I kept expecting all of the villagers to die in bloody massacres or profane rituals and was pleasantly disappointed.This was such a *cozy* fairy tale I didn't know what to do with it but I want to cuddle it forever. There was still plenty of risk and danger and curses and tricksy Fae to keep things interesting.
I've always loved the story of Snow White and Rose Red, so when I came across this book, I was ecstatic.
That is this book.The only problem is that if you are at all familiar with the tale of Snow White and Rose Red, you will know what basically will happen, but the rewritten plot will keep you from figuring out everything before it is time.This is probably one of my all time favorite fairytale retellings, and the ending was so sweet!
Snow White and Rose Red 2.0.
The magic was herb magic, something more suited to the setting than the usual kind you get in fairytales.
If you're looking for some fairytale romance this isn't the book you're looking for; while it is clear that the girls fancy the two brothers, there is no physical contact between them, not even hand holding.
I enjoyed the uniqueness of this book, especially in relation to fairytale retellings, but it lost my interest about halfway through.
Even so, it's uniqueness and the fact that it was well written sustain it and I would suggest it to someone.
Extremely clever rework of the Grimm tale of Snow White And Rose Red. It uses a lot of the frame tale but not in completely obvious ways, reworking it all into something fresh and smooth.
Setting it in Elizabethan England was especially interesting.
Of course, the language took a bit to get used to but it is far simpler than Shakespeare and it doesn't read as try-hard at all.
It still flows naturally so long as you keep remembering that "an" means "if".
The layers of the story manage to form some tension and push-pull while the characters contribute to that.
While not a terrible book, it definitely could have been better. My biggest complaint was that this book just seemed to drag. The beginning was ok but the middle was sooooooooooo slooooooooooooooow. I had a hard time making myself pick it up and finish it.
Found this to be fun -- it combined two of my favorite things: Snow White and Rose Red, and John Dee. Interesting re-telling!
The characters are painfully flat; we never discover what is motivating are villains beyond the blind hunger for power ("same thing we do every night, Pinky"), the romance between the two brothers and two sisters reads like a middle schooler's spiral notebook, and the cast as a whole comes off as a group of formulaic, cookie cutter characters straight out of a "How to Write a Faery Tale" manual.
Wrede could have had an intense, paranormal romance on her hands, to rival a Beauty and the Beast, if she had only focused on the right aspects of the original tale AND if she had only done what this novel series promises, which is adaptations intended for adults.
11.2.2017 - 4,5*Oh my, prokousat se občas dialogy postav, jelikož autorka se snažila následovat dobu, ve které postavy žily, bylo pomalé mučení, a tak mi vcelku krátká knížečka zabrala více času, než dvakrát delší.
Vzala motiv a zasadila jej do své vlastní představy, a stále to byla stejná pohádka, místy více Sněženka a Růženka než samotný originál.
Nebo spíše, už si nedokážu představit tento příběh jinak, než jak jej napsala Wrede.
A zároveň je to stále v srdci pohádka, se svými klišé a prvky, které jsou jednoduše nepostradatelné, což je na tom to nejúžasnější.
As soon as I would catch the rhythm of the language in a long couple lines of dialog, there would be a break in it with a "she said" or "they walked out the door" etc.
It broke the illusion of the language and made it modern again.
While the story was okay, what I read books for is the language used.
I think switching back and forth between the two dialects as she did was a great disservice to both.
I think I would have liked it better if it had been written fully in one dialect or the other.
Their mother is a wise woman who keeps a low profile to avoid any accusation of witchcraft.
She and her daughters become entangled in Faerie matters...In a bit of sorcery gone awry, Hugh the half mortal son of the Faerie Queen is robbed of his faerie essence and turned into a bear.
Blanche, Rosamond and their mother along with John, Hugh's brother work against time to reverse the enspellment that threatens Hugh.
Faerie and human court intrigue promise to ensnare them all and ensure failure keeping the story suspenseful.
The cover is nice too, it seems that Blanche is looking past Hugh's bearlike appearance to the prince within.
(Incidentally, the Grimm brothers were uncles to my great grandmother.) As much as I enjoy this author, I felt some weakness that I believe was from the effort to use authentic Elizabethan words and phrases in the dialogue, but modern English in the narrative.
It felt somewhat disjointed, almost like reading something where all the dialogue is in a foreign language.
I can understand much of the language of Shakespeare, but the mental effort to go back and forth made the reading feel choppy.
Then, occasionally, modern English or syntax would slip in, creating cognitive dissonance.
I still enjoyed reading it to the end, but this isn't this author's best work.
I couldn't really get into this book.
The dialogue was written in Elizabethan English, which to a modern English speaker comes across as very stilted and overly formal.
It would have been less historically accurate, but more easily accessible if it had been scaled back a bit to modern English with a hint of Elizabethan in it.
We've got two sets of bad guys, apparent from their words and the hints of mustache twirling whenever they gather, but no reason for their actions.
I'm really not a fan of the idea of they're a bad guy because I need a villain.
I love the Enchanted Forest series, so when I saw this book, I was really excited. The Fairy Tale of Snow White and Rose Red isn't done as often as many of the others and this take on it really held true to the fairy tale retelling tradition. I knew how the story was going to end but I had no idea how it was actually going to get there. I loved this book and look forward to reading it again in the future.
I really enjoyed the contrast between the modern writing and the Elizabethan dialogue in this book. Why? Because I didn't notice it, most of the time. I like this story (I think I have read this book before, though I don't know when) and like how each chapter is tied into a paragraph from the original story.
I would not recommend this book. I was expecting more descriptions of the faerie world, more character build up. As this is written in Elizabethan English this was really hard to enjoy. Some chapters were interesting but i thought it was a waste of time to spend another day trying to decipher the events and conversations. Too sad. I was hoping a more interesting story.
I was a bit disappointed with this book, actually. I had been expecting a more imaginative retelling from the author of the Enchanted Forest Chronicles. But (possibly unfair) expectations aside, this was a pleasant enough read. I know some people complained about the language but it wasn't as bad as Wuthering Heights, really. This one you get used to after a while.
A decent fairy tale retelling, set in Elizabethan England, but not up to Wrede's usual standards. After the hysterically funny Dragons Quartet, I expected something more from this retelling.Yes, it fleshes out the story. Yes, her writing is neat and elegant. But there's no extra spark to the story to make it memorable.McKinley remains the finest fairy tale re-teller out there.
