https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102645.Portrait_of_a_Marriage
In his eyes, the Violet/Vita incident was the ultimate testing ground for the very modern, liberal idea of marriage that his parents had agreed to live by (lovers if they chose, but they would always come back to each other and speak honestly about what was going on at all times), and since in the end Vita did return to England with Harold, he sees it ultimately as a triumph of their solid, loving relationship over the temporary passions of her wild relationship with the “evil” Violet.
Mislim na delove priče tipa:"a kad su zajedno pobegle u Monte Karlo, živele su silno siromašno, morale su čak i da založe svoje dragulje dok im porodice nisu poslale novac""nikad neću zaboraviti naš raskid, ona je bila u salonu ispred koga je neka bedna služavka (u originalu: dreary slut) ribala pod, morala sam da prekoračim kofu s prljavom vodom da bih ušla""mama /kaže sin o Viti/ nam se uvek nesebično posvećivala, dadilje su nas vodile kod nje svakog dana u šest iako je zbog toga morala da prekida pisanje i nije baš znala o čemu s nama da razgovara""naši roditelji su super organizovali naš porodični život tako da je svako imao zasebno krilo kuće a mi deca smo bili u kućici malo podalje"itd.
And for her, of course, it meant the supreme effort to conquer the love of the person she had always wanted, who had always repulsed her (when things seemed to be going too far), out of a sort of fear, and of whom she was madly jealous – a fact I had not realized, so adept was she at concealment, and so obtuse was I at her psychology."(Nigel Nicolson - Portrait Of A Marriage)As a result, neither comes across as particularly likeable and I found myself feel rather sorry for their husbands, Denys Trefusis and Harold Nicolson, who went to great lengths to both enable Violet and Vita to conduct their relationship and at the same time protect them from the destructive nature of their passions.
Like many people I first heard of Vita Sackville-West when reading about Virginia Woolf and their relationship.
It was inspired by a journal, Vita's son, Nigel Nicolson, found among her possessions after her death.
The last section is again written by Nigel and includes the Virginia Woolf affair and more on family matters.Portrait of a Marriage provides a unique look at relationships and marriages in a time that we think as more conservative than today.
Vita Sackville-West is an interesting read even when writes a journal.
However, Vita Sackville-West is worthy of reading and study in her own right.
Speaking of mom and dad, this book Portrait of Marriage tells the story of a couple: Virginia Woolf's mistress, poet, author and gardener Vita Sackville-West (1892-1962) and her husband Harold Nicolson (1886-1968) who was a diplomat, author, diarist and politician.
Vita was gay and during their marriage had at least 3 female lovers and one of them, the last one mentioned in the book, was Virginia Woolf who by that time was very much married to Leonard.
So I'm not sure how Portrait of a Marriage, Nigel Nicholson's loving memoir of his parents, Harold Nicholson and Vita Sackville-West, went unread by me for so long.
I must've thought Nicholson's book attempted to explain and make excuses for Harold's and Vita's unconventional behavior and marriage.
Because his parents' commitment to each other and their lives together was complete, Nicholson doesn't feel he has to justify their bisexuality and their loves outside the long marriage.
Sharing Nicholson's memoir of the marriage is Vita's account of her love affair with Trefusis recorded in her diary.
The rest of the book then, is Nigel's attempt to place that affair in the context of his parent's marriage, to show how they weathered it, to add his own insights and explain Vita and Harold's unconventional and amazing marriage, supplimented with letters and diary entries from Harold, Vita and Violet.The result is so dense that it's almost hard to think of it all at once, except to say that the combined effect of is it all is extraordinary.
Violet and Vita's love, Harold and Vita's love, even Nigel's love for his parents not just as parents, but as people.
A me piace molto leggere o ascoltare storie di famiglia, forse perché nella mia famiglia se ne sono sempre raccontate molte; non capita sovente, però, di leggere storie come quelle radunate in questo memoriale da Nigel Nicolson (1917-2004), anche perché non tutti hanno la fortuna di avere genitori eccezionali sotto varî punti di vista come Sir Harold Nicolson (1886-1968) e Vita Sackville-West (1892-1962); Nigel intreccia qui pagine sue ad altre scritte dalla madre, concentrandosi soprattutto sul periodo iniziale del matrimonio, quando la relazione col marito fu scompigliata da una turbinosa storia d’amore fra Vita e Violet Trefusis.
This book kind of gives me a glimpse of that sort of heightened, cerebral, upper-crust sexuality that isn't really sexy that Woody Allen always slavers over in movies like Manhattan and Stardust Memories.
As much as I love his work and those films, there is a very large, Midwestern part of me that always rolls her eyes at that kind of stuff.
And I have my reasons, good ones, large and Midwestern though they may be.
I don't know exactly what to say, because this book isn't an apologetic or a novel, it is just the publishing of a diary followed by an explication.
This autobiography, written when Vita Sackville-West was in her 20s, describes her brief, passionate affair with Violet Trefusis.
Portrait of a Marriage contains this autobiography along with Nicolson's own account of his parent's marriage, and quotations from letters between the Vita and Violet, and Vita and her husband, Harold Nicolson.
Today I imagine the relationship between Vita and Harold would not have been one of marriage: because while they adored each other and made generous and congenial companions to one another, they both appear to experience more passionate love and lust when in gay relationships.
Un diario rinvenuto e una storia da riscrivere intimamente, più che da ricostruire.
Nigel Nicolson parla di sua madre, Vita Sackville West, nobildonna inglese, scrittrice, personalità controversa e molto chiacchierata; di suo padre, diplomatico e scrittore; e del loro inconsueto rapporto coniugale, spesso oggetto di attenzioni morbose da parte della stampa, o dei gossip più sfrenati, durante il secolo scorso in Inghilterra.
Cerca di ristabilire una verità umana, etica, più che storica o ufficiale.
Descrive senza reticenze una realtà familiare aristocratica dissoluta e problematica; ma anche colta, intelligente e anticonformista.
Per leggere poi i romanzi della scrittrice con partecipazione più intensa.
A courageous, honest book, brilliant and blunt, sort of like being smacked with cotton candy - a sticky and sweet sensation.
Nigel NIcolson finds his mother's unpublished memoir, and then fills in the bits and pieces - his mother's memoir about her now famous affair and "elopement" with Violet Trefusis; his father's homosexuality; and how the unusual couple built this enduring, strong, unusual, revolutionary marriage.
Nigel describes Violet as "always a bird of paradise, different, electric, much loved by young and old, a brilliant, exciting woman." She sounds delightful - but they all sound delightful.
Like all brilliant, exciting people.
A fascinating look at the life of Vita Sackville-West and her marriage to Harold Nicholson. Unconventional in the extreme they stayed with each other while engaging in relationships outside their marriage. Vita is most well known for her affair with Virginia Woolf, although it was the more longstanding relationship with Violet Trefusis that was more significant to her. Partly written as Vita's autobiography and partly biography written by her son Nigel, this is a revealing and intriguing look at an important, rebellious woman who would not live by society's rules.
Written by their son Nigel, he tells the story of Harold Nicolson's 49 yr marriage to Vita Sackville-West, a union based on trust, shared interests, deepening love, frankness and reciprocal infidelity. It's chronicles Vita's love affair with Violet Trefusis, the crisis which nearly broke their marriage. Contains BW photographs.
If it wanted to focus on their marriage and adult relationships, the first third of the book didn't need to include long details of Vita's childhood and those of her parents.
I understand not wanting to break up her narrative too much, but the book would have worked much better if annotations had been made within Vita's text.I don't think that the author, as Vita's son, was able to look at his parents with any sort of objectivity.
This provides source material and interpretation that is likely fascinating to those who are already deeply interested in the subject.
This is a fascinating biography, written by Nigel Nicolson and Vita Sackville-West, of a marriage between two individuals who should not have been able to live together.
Ethics aside, the book is a compelling account of passion and fidelity — and, on the son's part, of admiration for both his bisexual parents and their unusual, half-century marriage.The book raises interesting questions about the differences in the couple and the dynamics of their personal lives apart from the marriage and the effect on both their marriage and sons.
Most importantly it is an interesting story about two people who lived unusual and very literary lives.
i had no clue what this book was about before picking it up.
it was listed on a "suggested reading list" in susan branch's book, a fine romance.
what an incredible autobiography...what a story!
i was blown away by how a history could be so perfectly told via letters and journal entries, and while i was fascinated by the story, what really left an impression on me is the lost art of writing letters with pen to paper.
to me an email just doesn't have the same feeling, whether i am the author or receiver.
Makes you long for the days letter writing and journal keeping made life - and sexual mindgames - seem so civilized and elegant. I can't help but think if this lesbian love triangle happened today, the documentation would be limited to "I h8 u. dont talk 2 me ever." If you've ever had difficulty choosing between two people or two life paths, you'll enjoy this read.
I read this when I was 24 -- it's how I found out there were "gardens in England" ~ it made me dream of visiting Sissinghurst. Before this book I thought everyone grew up the way I did on Claire Avenue, was surprised to learn that they didn't and that everything worked out well anyway!
b) an account of Vita having several passionate lesbian affairs and attempting numerous times to escape with these ladies to Europe, then always ultimately returning to Harold.
This principle of non-interference, however, didn't make the marriage cold or uncaring; it seems that despite this, and despite their extensive time apart during travels and sexual relationships with others, Vita and Harold hated even to be apart for very long, and wrote one another an immense volume of longing love letters until her death.
Nigel Nicolson (1917 – 2004), the author of this work that was published in 1973, was the second son of Harold Nicholson (1886 – 1958) and Vita Sackvile-West (1892 – 1962), who were married quite happily for 55 years, from 1913 until Vita Sackville-West’s death.
Her life (and that of her husband) was that of the very rich in England; by the time she was 26, she had had not one, but two, major portraits painted of her.The book is divided into five sections; the first and third sections come from an autobiography that Vita wrote in 1920 – 1921, and that her son found in a locked Gladstone bag upon her death.
The writing takes off with the beginning of Vita's affair with Violet, one of those incredible knock-down, drag-out dramatic relationships where promises are made and broken and escapes to the Continent continually planned.
After the death of most of the major players, Nicholson published the manuscript with the original names restored, framing the profoundly frank narrative within the larger context of his parents' happy, if untraditional, marriage.
I'm rather impressed that a son could speak so frankly on the unconventional nature and deep passion of his parents' marriage, but perhaps this is due to the distance that Nicholson felt throughout his own relationship with his mother and the other "players" in the drama.
I knew nothing about the life or work of Vita Sackville-West and Harold Nicolson until reading this biography of Vita by their second son, Nigel (who has also published his father's diaries and some of his parent's letters).
It really does become very moving to read some of their letters, both desperately needing the other's love to stabilize themselves in a world where they were often separated, whether by choice or work - or indeed - other love.
Overall this is a tender homage to the author's parents, particularly Vita, and gives a mature and understanding glimpse into their extraordinary lives.
For about two years, I was obsessed with Virginia Woolf and her relationship with Vita Sackville-West, and read whatever I could get my hands on about the two women, their marriages, and their other relationships.
Without going into my own story too much, one of the fundamental differences was that the marriage of Vita and Harold was based on mutual respect, devotion, and honesty, and as a result weathered more than half a century.I am remarried now - in a relationship that is not open, nor would I want it to be - and I wonder if these relationships would have the same resonance.
Rather uneven as it dwells excessively on the notorious runaway-bride affair between Violet Trefusis and Vita and then tapers off as the youthful hormones die down, so that in the end, you find quite a stodge, complacent couple with a fantastic garden, some interesting friends and relatively quiet careers. One wonders what all the fuss was about.
i hate marriage
NO fueron padres ejemplares ni pretendieron serlo ( y menos para lo que se estila ahora) pero su hijo habla de ellos con amor absoluto y completa admiración.Vita escribe sobre su infancia.«Creo que tenía plena conciencia de que, si no podía ser popular, sería inteligente; y conseguí labrarme una reputación de persona inteligente, nada merecida, porque está claro que no lo soy, pero duradera como todas las reputaciones.
No creo que haya desparecido aún; la gente dice «Oh, sí, escribe, ¿verdad?», como si hubiera que ser inteligente para escribir.
3’5 ★★★★ «She fought for the right to love, men and women, rejecting the conventions that marriage demands exclusive love, and that women should love only men, and men only women. For this she was prepared to give up everything (…) How could she regret that the knowledge of it should now reach the ears of a new generation, one so infinitely more compassionate than her own?» {English}This book is the story of the marriage between Vita Sackville-West and Harold Nicolson told by their son Nigel thr
Este libro es la historia del matrimonio entre Vita Sackville-West y Harold Nicolson contado por su hijo Nigel a través de los documentos que dejó Vita a su muerte en 1962: sus diarios y los de su madre Victoria Sackville-West, una autobiografía no finalizada escrita en 1925, cartas de Vita, Harold, Violet Trefusis y Virginia Woolf… Pero es una historia de amor, de pasiones, de ruptura con los convencionalismos sociales de primeros de siglo XX y de respeto e igualdad.Conocí a Vita a través de Virginia —especialmente gracias al libro  A Virginia le gustaba Vita de  Pilar Bellver— y a través también de mi mejor amiga, así que este libro también es fruto de la amistad entre mujeres y quizás por ello me ha gustado tanto.
Un teatro-diario, una rincorsa tra più personaggi crea una biografia che diventa un quadro che racconta epoche e romanzi.
I listened to Orlando by Virginia Woolf last year on audio and, having loved that book, wanted to find out more about its real-life protagonists especially the muse for Orlando him/herself, Vita Sackville-West.
However, once I got past this ignorance of the 'real world', I could begin to understand and even empathise with the all-consuming love of her young life.
Vita has a passionate affair, beginning before her marriage and continuing afterwards, with another woman, Violet.
Both Vita and Harold had affairs with other women and men respectively so, after the early years and the birth of their sons, the marriage was one of minds, not bodies.
