https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/348573.The_Borrowers
Book 30/100 of 2015
I have noticed that most people who borrow books do it in the same way the borrowers do it - to keep them indefinitely! That is how I lost my cherished copy of this classic. My sense of ownership lost a battle with my sense of missionary reading promotion. And here we are - The Borrowers are forever lost to me, at least in a visual, tangible sense. I can of course still "see" them in my mind, endlessly panicking about me - a human bean, no less! - having discovered their secret.Lovely story full of beans, human and otherwise!
But she told herself, 'He isn't small, he's half a head taller than mother..'Arietty's first encounter with the little boy who has come to stay in the house is brilliant; it's both a meeting between two children and between creatures from worlds that are alien to each other.
Writing for young readers - and I imagine that this book's natural audience would be between Arietty's age - 14 - and the human boy's - 10 - doesn't have to be a matter of writing down, and this is a good example of how to get it right.
Day 17 of my Facebook 30 Day Book Challenge asks me to list the shortest book I've read, so here it is.
This is a book about a family of tiny people who live under the floorboards of a normal human home, surviving by pilfering stuff from the giants who inhabit it.
Facebook 30 Day Book Challenge Day 17: Shortest book you have read.
More than just loving the story in this book I liked the idea of it. You had people that were smaller than a child being intelligent and resourceful and they were taken seriously. What child wouldn't love that? Plus little people who make furniture out of buttons and thimbles - it's just too cute.
THANK you friends for challenging me to give this book another chance!I accepted the dare to read this again if I reached 10 subscribers on my YouTube channel.
and I absolutely loathed the nasty humans who were so mean to the Borrowers - they actually stressed me with how petty and vicious they were...Because of that - I nearly knocked off a star - but....Are you reading?
'throws confetti' THANKS GUYS!
Now I wish I hadn't gotten rid of my old copy - I'm not only going to buy this book (again!) I'm going to read the rest of the series!
ছোটট এক মেয়ে আরিয়েততি থাকে তার বাবা-মায়ের সাথে। তারাও ছোটট! সতযিকার অরথেই ছোটট মানুষ তারা সবাই, পিঁপড়ের চেয়ে একটু বড় হবে হয়তো! তারা থাকে তাদের চেয়ে আকারে অনেক বড় মানুষদের বাড়ির মেঝের নিচে। সেই বাড়ি থেকে এটা-সেটা সংগরহ করে জীবন চলে তাদের। এজনযই তাদের নাম ‘The Borrowers!’ কিনতু সবসময় তাদের খুব সাবধানে থাকতে হয় যেন বড় মানুষরা তাদের দেখে না ফেলে! আরিয়েততি তার বাবার সাথে জিনিস সংগরহের অভিযানে যায় একদিন। আর সেই সময়ই সেই বাড়ির একজনের চোখে পড়ে যায় সে! এরপর ঘটে নানা রকম ঘটনা, যার মধযে কিছু ছিল আননদের, আর
ছোট্ট এক মেয়ে আরিয়েত্তি থাকে তার বাবা-মায়ের সাথে। তারাও ছোট্ট!
সত্যিকার অর্থেই ছোট্ট মানুষ তারা সবাই, পিঁপড়ের চেয়ে একটু বড় হবে হয়তো!
তারা থাকে তাদের চেয়ে আকারে অনেক বড় মানুষদের বাড়ির মেঝের নিচে। সেই বাড়ি থেকে এটা-সেটা সংগ্রহ করে জীবন চলে তাদের। এজন্যই তাদের নাম ‘The Borrowers!’ কিন্তু সবসময় তাদের খুব সাবধানে থাকতে হয় যেন বড় মানুষরা তাদের দেখে না ফেলে!
আরিয়েত্তি তার বাবার সাথে জিনিস সংগ্রহের অভিযানে যায় একদিন। আর সেই সময়ই সেই বাড়ির একজনের চোখে পড়ে যায় সে!
ছোটবেলায় লেখাগুলো ঠিকঠাক বুঝতাম না, কিন্তু ছবিগুলো দেখেই খুশি হয়ে যেতাম!
Charming!
This story is charming and a lot of fun too.
Little people living in a big English house.
Sadly they are discovered.
I enjoy how the story is told.
Two woman are knitting a quilt together and the older begins to tell a tale that her brother told her.
The brother was part of the story.
This is the beginning and the end.
Mary only gives us a hint of what really happened at the end.
It makes for a sly story.
The story is from the 50s and I think it can still be enjoyed by everyone today.
My dad asked me if I had a book to report on for summer reading, since we were there and everything.
None that I recall.Anyway, the library lady started to ask me to tell her about the book.
It became readily apparent that I did not read this book, so the library lady, looked up from her papers, since in those days, children's librarians did not make eye contact with children and mostly just SHHHushed everyone, loudly and rudely."Can you tell me ANYTHING that is NOT on the front cover?" she asked.I stared at her.
(And Arrietty is writing in her journal--it's perfect!)However, reading it as an adult, I feel like I got even more from the story.
I obviously elected to give Egglatina a happy fate through my own imaginative play!)I am not so sure how much I loved the beginning and ending, with young Kate talking to the Boy's sister (now an old lady) who is telling the story of the time her brother met the Borrowers.
And I was so wrapped up in the story of the boy and the Borrowers that when it ended (and we switch back to the old woman telling Kate that was "the last time my brother saw the Borrowers") it was so jarring.
I was the bane of my teachers in elementary school, because at that time there was so little fiction available for a speed reading ten year old who had finished every Nancy Drew (no Junior editions) written, any L.M. Montgomery books the little local library owned plus the ones from my GR.3 teacher's daughter's shelves, every series I could find... So my teachers ended up scrounging whatever fiction they thought might be appropriate from any grade. I was transfixed by The Borrowers. Still am!
My favorite parts are the description of the Borrowers' home and the possibility of discovery at the end. :)
It was such an imaginative story, and I can imagine that it's led many children over the years to wonder what was living in their houses with them.
I especially loved that the way Mrs. May told the story of the Borrowers left the fact of their existence up to the reader.
Those were my favorite kinds of stories as a kid.
There's not too much depth to this, but it is a children's story--and a romping good one at that!
Kids will have a good time imagining life as a Borrower and wondering what might be under their floors.
FRom BBC Radio 4 Extra:Adaptation of the children's classic following the adventures of the tiny Clock family. Stars Clare Corbett.
The stories are as whimsical as can be, but Norton writes with Victorian edge and can make the mood dark and foreboding as well--when we first learn of the Borrowers they are not described as fairies, but rather uncanny little beings who are proud and delusional about their place in life and the prevalence of their kind.
The descriptions and the illustrations make it what it is and for the sort of Victorian/children/fantasy genre that this is, I was surprised by Norton's ability and much appreciated choice to bring this unexpected depth to the characters--each one has a great deal of humanity about him/her.
For anyone who still loves simplistic yet brilliantly painted fantasy saturated in detail.
I haven't read this since.......a long time! A was a child, anyway. It's rather good and I hope it's still read by children - as well as much older children such as am I :)
Meravigliosi, gli Sgraffignoli! Credo che adesso mi toccherà leggere tutta la serie!
These books SOOOO appealed to me as a young girl, especially the alternative uses for all of their "borrowed" objects. I was forever creating little towns with their own stories in the vacant lot next door and I think that in Norton I found a kindred spirit who fed the fire of my already very active imagination. I may just have to go back and read these again for old times sake.
Cũng được.Trong đầu mỗi đứa trẻ đều có một thế giới, thế giới dần thu hẹp khi chúng ta lớn lên.Ai biết được, có thể trái đất nằm trong một cái hộp, trong một nhà kho cũ nào đó, của một gia đình khổng lồ :v
Something about the incredible creativity and wholesomeness of this book puts it on my most dear classics shelf next to Narnia, Pooh, Paddington, Betsy Tacy, Stuart Little, Five Children and It and Cowboy Small.
The Borrowers is magical and creative and full of wonder and awe.In many stories we talk about the power or genius coming from specific characters, events or actions.
In the Borrowers, we do not look to the book for the genius but the author.
These little Borrowers teach us much about creative ingenuity and stewardship of resources all while we are having incredible fun!
I was staying with my grandparents for some portion of the summer, and because of this book I spent all kinds of time imagining where Borrowers might be hiding in their flat, and begging to go on extra visits to Miniatuur Walcheren so I could stand gaping at the little buildings and trains and tiny cars and windmills and fairgrounds and imagine where it is that Arrietty's family might choose to live if they could have this tiny world to themselves.
Pure joy.As usual, I remembered all the logistical bits about borrowing blotting paper and pins and entire potatoes, but none of the dire peril that befalls the family when they get found out by unsympathetic "human beans." I'm terribly predictable that way: the worldbuilding matters more than the action, every time.
Questo libro racconta una storia simile ma allo stesso tempo abbastanza diversa da quella mostrata n
I remember reading this when I was a little girl. I was captivated. Little people living in your house? Who wouldn't love that? This read was just as good. I kept thinking that this should be a must-read for kids, and that more teachers should choose this for their read aloud book after lunch. It's the story of the people who call themselves Borrowers, and they exist by borrowing things from the human people in the house. It's delightfully fun.
Truyện được đánh giá là "kinh điển" cho trẻ em, và phần lớn người đọc đánh giá cao nhưng mình phải mất khá lâu mới đọc cho hết. Nhịp chuyện chậm rãi, bắt đầu và kết thúc cũng từ tốn, không quá gay cấn (nên vì vậy thích hợp cho trẻ em chăng? ). Có lẽ muốn cảm thụ cho hết, mình hẳn phải đọc bằng tiếng Anh, vì nghe nói, cách dùng từ và chơi chữ của tác giả rất thú vị, mà mình không thấy được khía cạnh này trong tác phẩm dịch.
Cưng, dễ thương ghê. Thấy ghét mấy đứa nhỏ như Arrietty cứng đầu không biết nghe lời người lớn và không biết tôn trọng tập quán, cứ tưởng mình đang cố gắng cứu cả giống loài mà thực ra là đang góp phần giết những kẻ tí hon một lần và mãi mãi :)))). Mà chứ truyện trẻ con thêm vào mấy chi tiết này cộng với vụ lão xông hơi đuổi chuột thấy kinh dị vãi cả linh hồn.
I really enjoyed this when I was ten or eleven. It's a really neat idea.
As I love my classics, and I remember giving this book a read a few years ago, I thought it'd be quite repetitive and i'd know what would happen very well.
But unfortunately, I missed out a few key points.
And after reading the book again, I absolutely enjoyed reading the book.
The idea of the 'little people' and how they 'borrow' just makes the book more exciting, and allows the reader to dissolve in the fantasy.
The way the story unfolds of how the fear of the 'big people' and how they manage to survive by 'borrowing' is very exciting.
Tiny people live in your house! A tiny little girl and her parents live out their daily lives under the baseboards of an old house. They furnish their home with items "borrowed" from the larger home (the girl sleeps in a bed made from a cigar box). Although years ago there were many "Borrowers," there is only one family left. This is an odd story, with that dark sort of whimsey that has fallen out of favor since the second world war.
Clásico de la literatura juvenil inglesa, muy divertido, rebosante de descripciones de una gran imaginación y provisto de un sentido del humor irónico que gustará a los más mayores (quienes pueden encontrar significado a las bromas). Debería ser lectura obligada para niños. Reseña completa:http://www.libros-prohibidos.com/mary...
It's a long, long time since I read this, but I remember being enchanted with the story of the tiny creatures and especially the uses they find for the things they "borrow" from us, the Human Beans. There was a movie, I believe, a few years ago, but I haven't seen it. I would recommend the Borrowers series for any imaginative child.
