https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310272.There_s_a_Wocket_in_My_Pocket_
"Did you ever have the feeling there’s a WASKET in your BASKET? Or a NUREAU in your BUREAU?Or a WOSET in your CLOSET?Sometimes I feel quite CERTAIN there’s a JERTAIN in the CURTAIN"Another amazing book by Dr. Seuss. A bit scary, a bit funny, a bit ridiculous, BUT very clever and with great lyrics and illustrations.For the brave little readers 🎃
We love this Seuss book, too. I am honestly relieved there is NOT a nook gase in my book case!
The BEST Dr. Seuss book! LOVE it!
sometimes i feel like there's a zamp in the lampand im also quite certain there's a jertain in the curtainwhoa
Warning: despite the title, this book has very little to say about wockets. If you purchased this book hoping to gain insight into the ecology and habitat of the wocket, you will be disappointed.
Nonsense Rhymes18 November 2013 I notice that some people deeply analyse the functionality of the book in how well it would work to help children to read and to understand the English language, and there are others that simply go on about how much they loved this book when they were a kid (and have probably not read it since then). Then there is me, who will read the book and then make comments about it in the same way that I made comments about Mister Dog: The Dog Who Belonged to Himself and Th
Nonsense Rhymes18 November 2013	I notice that some people deeply analyse the functionality of the book in how well it would work to help children to read and to understand the English language, and there are others that simply go on about how much they loved this book when they were a kid (and have probably not read it since then).
Mind you, I'm not going to be making any outrageous comments about this book other than the fact that while I think that it is stupid I still feel the urge to give it a high rating.
and that Jertain in the curtain better start paying his rent or he’ll get thrown down to the cellar with the Gellars! Another wonderful play on words and sounds that my kid adores.
so I don't know how this differs, sad to say, but as it's quite the silly book and so much fun to read, I wouldn't mind getting the longer version too.It begins: "Did you ever have the feeling there's a ZAMP in the LAMP?""Or a NINK in the SINK?" and so on.For each everyday household item or piece of furniture, Seuss made up a silly rhyme.
But it's not just questions, it's the boy describing all the strange creatures he finds around the house, which ones he likes and which he doesn't (which ones are nice and which are not).
Ok, I think I'm being a little mean to this book.
I'd like to give it four stars, it being a Dr. Seuss book and all, but...
I can't.Cat in the Hat and the Lorax were good.
Still a ramble of nonsense, but good.This, however...
Was just too much.So, it's about a kid who lives in this house full of weird monster like things, and the whole story goes like: There's a wocket in my pocket and a nookbrush on my toothbrush and a dozet in my closet and a lish in my dish and a...Though, I have to say, he's really gifted at giving his works a musical tone.
Well my nephew loves it, so good enough for me! Like other Dr Seuss books, wonderful to read aloud.
Okay so technically the six-year-old read this to me (SO PROUD) but I supervised and thus am counting it anyway.
I liked the rhymes they were so funny!
Yet another fun and hilarious story from the mind of Dr. Seuss.
i have read it and also read it many times to my sister -- she loves this book
A silly, nonsensical rhyming book. Entertaining for kids, but not one of the better Dr. Seuss books.
I think this one was my fave for awhile. The made up words were fun.
This guy can get away with anything.
Apparently making up words is the key to becoming famous: Dr. Seuss, Red Hot Chili Peppers, scat jazz, Donald Trump. Dr. Seuss has once again tried to slip some innuendos into his books, making them unsafe for childrens' eyes and ears. This book was to be followed by a sequel titled "Is that a wocket in your pocket or are you just happy to see me?"
Art is beyond adorable & all the names of the wacky little critters are so fun to say. The Insanity of dr. Suess is fun for both kiddies and adults reading to them. :) highly recommended.
Ahh! I love this book! Now where's my wocket?
Have you checked for strange rhyming critters in your house? We checked the entire classroom and never found a single nook, woset, or yeps though the search was terribly fun. Good luck at your house!
These books are wonderful, imaginative and wacky. Lots of made up words, good for perhaps year 2 in establishing words.
This book has helped me fully appreciate the Jurtain in my curtain.
its nice and relay funny prfict for kids of all ageis
All I have to say is I want to visit this guy's house. It sounds like a fun time to be with all those whatis around. Very creative and fun book.
Theodore Seuss Geisel achieved far better works with his full, elder children's stories than with these toddler ditties.
Not least, I continue to object to non-existent words, in books believed to be vocabulary resources for children.
The dark mood, face showing trepidation, and sombre, rich colours of this page make my favourite picture.
Unfortunately "trepidation" and "sombre" are never words a child would learn from "Dr. Seuss"!
I could understand a few made-up names for a few made-up creatures.It is a shame all rhyming depends on invention and I outright deem one page deplorable, for fully containing false vocabulary and solely one veritable word!
Only now do I realise how few of them I’ve actually read.So tonight’s bedtime story is a Dr Seuss work that is new to me: There’s a Wocket in My Pocket.This was written in 1974, when the Doc was 70 years old and firmly established as a legend of children’s literature.
Arguably the biggest name in the genre.And so he said to himself: “Fuck it, I’m Dr Seuss, I can rhyme any old shit and people will buy it.”That's about the only explanation for the lack of effort that went into There’s a Wocket in My Pocket.This was Dr Seuss bereft of ideas, phoning it in.
The rhyming rhythm and silly and humorous concepts are what makes There’s a Wocket in my Pocket such a special picture book.
The story depicts a young boy who visits different rooms in his house only to find crazy-looking creatures, some of which he likes and others that he doesn’t, hiding in cupboards, behind curtains, and up the chimney.
The boy hopes to remain with the friendly creatures and never leave the house.The concept I like most about the book is the creative rhyming and timing of each line and page, complemented by the free-flowing tempo.
Personal Response:I read this book “There’s a Wocket in my Pocket” by Dr. Seuss to my little sister and she really thought it was funny and she told me that it rhymed.
Plot: “There’s a Wocket in my Pocket” by Dr. Seuss was about a boy who had a whole bunch of crazy things in his house.
They didn’t name the boy but he was an interesting character because he dreamed of having all these things in his house and they all rhymed with the actual object.
“There’s a Wocket in my Pocket!” is truly a brilliant book from the creative mind of Dr. Seuss and it is about how a young boy tells the audience about the strange yet fun-loving creatures that live in a young boy’s house.
Dr. Seuss’ story is truly creative as the names that the boy gives to each creature is truly inventive as the names rhyme with various furniture that the creatures associate with such as the yeps on the steps and the vug under the rug.“There’s a Wocket in my Pocket!” is a brilliant book that children will easily love for many years.
