https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21686.Shutter_Island
Ashecliffe Hospital sat on the central plain of the island's northwestern side. Sat begnignly, I might add. It looked nothing like a hospital for the criminally insane and even less like the military barracks it had been before that. Its appearance reminded most of us, in point of fact, of a boarding school. Teddy and Chuck are called out to the island to try and find out what happened to one of the inmates. She just escaped. There really isn't a way she could escape but there you have it. The
Ashecliffe Hospital sat on the central plain of the island's northwestern side.
Teddy and Chuck are called out to the island to try and find out what happened to one of the inmates.
She just escaped.
There really isn't a way she could escape but there you have it.
Teddy has dreams of his wife and you just plain feel sorry for him.
The end game blew me right out of the water!
It's just too crazy to fathom, but I can see how this could happen to people.
I could see how some things could push people right over the edge.
Awesome book!
I have read Mystic River, and this is no Mystic River. It is an interesting novel with a fun twist that I found unbelievable. Many think more of it than I did. I have not seen the film, so can offer no opinion on whether it is better or worse, faithful to the book or not. IMHO, it is LeHane light. feel free to skip it. image, based on the film, drawn from the site Collider
Shutter Island, Dennis LehaneShutter Island is a novel by American writer Dennis Lehane, published by Harper Collins in April 2003.
Lehane has said he sought to write a novel that would be a homage to Gothic settings, B movies, and pulp.
He described the novel as a hybrid of the works of the Brontë sisters and the 1956 film Invasion of the Body Snatchers.
تدی همسر خود را در یک آتش‌ سوزی عمدی، که توسط یک مجرم روانی بنام اندرو لدیس، که او هم در همین جزیره نگهداری می‌شود؛ از دست داده است.
رفتارهای غیرعادی به همراه هوای طوفانی جزیره باعث می‌شود؛ تا بیماری میگرن تدی اوج بگیرد.
The night I finished this, my mind was left reeling from it for a couple of hours and the next day I was unable to get it out of my head.
Shutter Island is a departure from the Kenzie/Gennaro series andit's one of those novels that will certainly leave you pondering the whole story once you're finished it.The less you know about the story, the better.
Suffice it to say, this is an excellent read and there are very few novels I have read that made my head buzz for hours after.
Don't miss this, read it before the movie comes out.
این دیگه چی بود!اول فیلمش رو دیدم و گفتم کافی نیست. با اینکه محشر بود ولی خیلی ترغیب شدم کتابشو بخونم. برای کتاب هم باید بگم اول ممنون از مقدمه، مقدمه نبود من خیلی چیزا رو نمیفهمیدم. شخصیتپردازیهای عالی، پایانبندی فوقالعاده، دیالوگا. همش داشتم فکر میکردم این داستان قراره چطور تموم شه. بهنظرم پایانبندی براش خیلی سخته. که دیدم چقد هنرمندانه و استادانه تمومش کرد. آخ که چقد عالی بود همهچیش.
این دیگه چی بود!اول فیلمش رو دیدم و گفتم کافی نیست. با اینکه محشر بود ولی خیلی ترغیب شدم کتابشو بخونم. برای کتاب هم باید بگم اول ممنون از مقدمه، مقدمه نبود من خیلی چیزا رو نمی‌فهمیدم. شخصیت‌پردازی‌های عالی، پایان‌بندی فوق‌العاده، دیالوگا. همش داشتم فکر می‌کردم این داستان قراره چطور تموم شه. به‌نظرم پایان‌بندی براش خیلی سخته. که دیدم چقد هنرمندانه و استادانه تمومش کرد. آخ که چقد عالی بود همه‌چیش.
Not in a long time did I read a book that grabbed me as Shutter Island did.
Shutter Island crawled under my skin, and it will stay there for a long time.
Even now, when I finished it, I'm sure that it will be somewhere in the back of my mind for a long time.
If you are planning to read this book, just read it without researching what it is about, and have it in mind that even if you guess the twist, don't let that take away the enjoyment of reading it.
Magistral! Una historia muy pero muy adictiva. Negra. Amarga. Creíble en su locura. Excelente.... Sin duda seguiré a este autor de muy cerca.
An isolated island, a raging hurricane, a locked room, secret codes, a mental hospital, and rumors of mysterious medical experiments frame the story. Written in a very different style compared to Lehane's previous novels Mystic river and Gone baby gone. The plot is not the simplest of plots, i was scratching my head intrigued because the story flips through past present and surreal. It is a disorienting, complex story grounded in the reality of the times...cold war USA in 1954. From pondering o
An isolated island, a raging hurricane, a locked room, secret codes, a mental hospital, and rumors of mysterious medical experiments frame the story.
From pondering over the story carefully i find myself laughing now at how Lehane whipped and twisted the story until you are dumb founded just when you think you solved it you realize the opposite.
You sense the feeling of being cheated in the story because when you start you set out wanting to finding the missing person but realize all is not what it seems, well i have to take my hat of to Lehane's creativity.
http://more2read.com/?review=shutter-island-by-dennis-lehane
Another in your face, gritty, and extremely well written book by Dennis Lehane. He does such a great job with character development and keeping things smoothly developing from its origins. Very well done.
I read this book for my hometown book club.
Surprisingly, I have never heard of Shutter Island, but now after reading this book I will have to check out the movie too.I was hoping for this book to be much better than it was.
Even after reading it I feel it could have been but there were soooo many twists and turns I couldn't keep up.
However, this book was not executed well and had too many twists and turns that the author didn't execute them well.The main character, U.S. Marshal Teddy Daniels, and his partner, Chuck Aule, take a boat to Shutter Island.
هرگز فکر نمیکردم که این کتاب رو در دوره آموزشی خدمت سربازی بخونم.حدود صد صفحه این کتاب رو ساعت دو و نیم بعد شب در حال گشت زنی در وسط بیابونای بیرجند خوندم زمانی که هوا نزدیک به 10 درجه بود و انواع جک و جونورهای موذی هم در رفت و آمد بودند.خوندن این کتاب پشت سیم خاردار حال عجیب تری داره .توصیفات نویسنده و شخصیت پردازیش فوق العاده است. همچنین پیچش داستانی انتهای کتاب واقعا غیرمنتظره بود.اگر هنوز نخوندینش حتما توصیه میشه و حتما حتما حتما اگه میخواید برید سراغ نسخه سینماییش اول بخونیدش.4.5/5
Did Bird Box or Dark Matter mess with your brain ? Ha ! This one is the best. Total mind melt. I had no idea it was a movie. I can't wait. I loved this book and I love Dennis Lehane as a new author I have found. How do they think about that stuff? Are they crazy? I couldn't sleep at night. It's that good and eerie. Shudder !! I highly recommend for eerie suspense with lots of twists and turns
I honestly thought my opinion of this book would be greatly influenced by my having seen the film, but it wasn't. I was completely blown away reading this one. This was probably one of the best psychological thrillers I've ever read. I loved how I got confused and then thought I figured it out, but then was totally confused all over again, until right near the end, at which point everything came to light.
Even though I had seen the movie many years ago I had always wanted to read the book and was so glad I did as I had forgotten the plot anyhow and the book proved to be so well written and intriguing that it had me on the edge of my seat.The novel is set of the Massachusette's coast in an army facility turned hopital for the criminally insane.
This book is full of twists and turns and really packs a punch.
Its a novel thats is well paced and thought out and certainly well worth a read.
Heck of a good read, in my book!Dennis Lehane's Shutter Island started off well for me and my tastes.
Love the setting, the characters, everything!From here on out this review contains all kinds of spoilers, so you just stop right here, Miss I-Haven't-Read-This-But-Plan-To.The set-up story roped me in.
Though the anagrams, the numbers, and then the very obvious prophetic dreams all stuck in the back of my head and told me that thins weren't as they seemed, I ignored them all in favor of trying to figure out Rachel Solando's impossible escape.
In my defense, I didn't know a thing about the book before reading it.
I'm glad a book can still dupe me like that.
I've only recently started reading a bit more in the thriller genre than I have in decades and I think it's safe to say I'm out of practise!
Tried to read something else...my mind kept coming back to it...picked it up again....got spooked....walk away Emma, walk away...it's getting late, it's dark, it's raining hard...the lunatics are taking over the asylum....mwahhaha...That Dennis Lehane is a clever bloke.
And it also it WAS dark and rainy while I was reading it.
Dennis got me good!This was my first book by this author.
New-to-me author, long list of published books by him, happy days...*rubs hands in anticipation*.
UPDATE: THE MOVIE ADAPTATION WAS ABSOLUTELY PERFECTION   “Which would be worse, to live as a monster or to die as a good man?”    Literally my face during some parts of the book     Oh man! Oh man! It's 1:30 am on 13th July 2016 and I have just finished this book 5 min ago and holy fuck that was a ride. I can't control myself, I literally feel like lying on the floor and just let everything that I have read sink in.I have been reading a lot of good books lately but I had yet to come across an a
I can't control myself, I literally feel like lying on the floor and just let everything that I have read sink in.I have been reading a lot of good books lately but I had yet to come across an amazing book  (although I am reading Horns and loving it) but this one just freaking made it for me :) I can't even begin to speak but I really need to review this before my head literally blows up!!The book is set in 1954 and it follow the character of 
Of course, it's during a violent hurricane, which lends the book it's " it was a dark and stormy night" factor along with other strange happenings .
This book was a runner up for 2011 Goodreads Thriller /Suspense award.This is not my usual genre, but especially if you missed the Movie ( 2004) , and can go into reading it cold-- skip the reviews for now to avoid spoilers, this is a great read with a gripping plot that will keep you guessing until the very end.
Oct - Halloween choice KUYH 4 stars
Dennis Lehane took a big leap in his work with this first novel following his stunner of a masterpiece, Mystic River, tackling a period piece for the first time, with a story that somehow both narrowed and widened his scope.
With its 1950's setting, to the Gothic feel of the location, the incredibly potent ambiance created by setting the story during a storm, it's shocking twists, it's brooding protagonist, and it's locked-room (locked-island?) mystery vibe, it's like the book is tailor-made to be awesome.
It has such a moody, creepy tone, I can still remember the feeling it gave me while reading it late at night before bed.
What if you could control it?” ― Dennis Lehane, Shutter Island…..so what exactly is going-on on this island???1954, Federal Marshal Edward “Teddy” Daniels, WWII vet, and his new partner Chuck Aule are assigned to investigate the disappearance of a woman from a federal penitentiary for the criminally insane on Shutter Island.
Do you see what I'm saying?” ― Dennis Lehane, Shutter Island“If you are deemed insane, then all actions that would oherwise prove you are not do, in actuality, fall into the framework of an insane person’s actions.
It’s a death penalty really.” ― Dennis Lehane, Shutter IslandThe marshals start to comb the island.
I kind of ruined this for myself having already seen the film.
Despite this, the book was suspenseful and exciting - I really believed the unreliable narrator and thought it was incredible how the story unraveled and then twisted at the end.
Each character was mysterious with both protagonistic and antagonistic qualities - I was never sure who was on the right or wrong side if there even were sides and who to trust - much like the main character felt I imagine.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Two U.S. Marshalls have been dispatched to Shutter Island - a location much like Alcatraz which houses an inescapable fortress for insane prisoners. The job of the partners is to find a female patient/murderer who has disappeared, while also having the unfortunate timing of having to battle a hurricane simultaneously. What the duo initially came to investigate and what they actually end up discovering are VERY different things.I read
What the duo initially came to investigate and what they actually end up discovering are VERY different things.I read Shutter Island waaaaaaaay back in May, but failed to ever write a review  because I SUCK at keeping up because I feel like Dennis Lehane should never get lower than 4 Stars.
Lehane's writing is so above-par that giving him a measly 3 seems blasphemous.
I actually never even knew Shutter Island was a movie until I brought this library book home (I like to stick to only raunchy comedies and B-grade horrors for my viewing pleasure, apparently) and my husband told me how good it was.
absolutely 5/5
4.5“There is no moral order as pure as this storm we've just seen. There is no moral order at all. There is only this—can my violence conquer yours?” It turned out that the fact that I'd already seen the movie didn't spoil my reading experience at all. Short comment to come!
I've never seen the movie, but I had a general idea of what happened due to seeing certain scenes while my husband was watching.
Shutter Island is the story of U.S. Marshal Teddy Daniels and his new partner, Chuck Aule who are sent to Shutter Island.
The people here have committed horrible atrocities, and one of these people Rachel Solando has escaped.
As a story bears down on the island Teddy and Chuck must race to discover how this woman escaped a locked room, and what really is happening on Shutter Island.From beginning to end this book hooked me.
خمسة نجوم أخرى بجدارةرواية على درجة عالية من العبقرية والتميّز...تحبس الأنفاس..مذهلة..تجعلك تُعمل عقلك وتفكر كثيراً في كل كلمة وفي كل حركة وفي كل إشارة..عبقرية بخوضها لمتاهات وأسرار العقل البشري..رواية سيكولوجية.. سيكولوجية عقل المجرم!من هو المجرم؟ هو ضحية جنون آخر.. هو ضحية رفض للواقع..هو ضحية للحرب طاحنة.. حرب لم تكتفي بما سببته من دمار وموت.. وإنما قتلت الإنسان من الداخل.. قتلت وعيه وإدراكه! فعلاً رواية عبقرية متميزة جداً..على الرغم من أن هذه المرة الثانية التي اقرأها.. لكنني اكتشفت أشياءً جديدة وعشت نفس الإثارة..لي موعد مع الفيلم الليلة..--------القراءة الأولى بتاريخ 10/4/2015
هیچوقت فیلم، نمی تونه جای کتاب رو بگیره. با خوندن این کتاب، هرچه بیشتر به این نتیجه میرسه آدم
All the witnesses were unreliable, but we have to trust what the protagonist sees and believes until he figures out the next clue.
I loved the story shift and the foreshadowing and that even though he couldn't figure out why, Daniels could tell he couldn't trust these people.
There were some brilliant moments, like the scene with Noyce that could be misconstrued one way or the other, depending on which story option you believe.My least favorite parts:-The gratuitous language and sexual content, especially the scene with his wife.
It's the one scene that keeps me from believing the second option.I still think the concept of the book was brilliant.
Reseña en español en el blog: Click AquíShutter Island is an amazing and fast-paced thriller.
Both Teddy and Chuck (the main characters) were awesome from the get-go, their dialogues made me feel part of the mystery and their investigation; as the story unfolds, you can appreciate how those dialogues start to make you guess about what is truly happening.Lehane's writing was great too.
If you're looking for a good thriller with an eerie atmosphere and awesome characters, then Shutter Island is ideal for you.
Epic Psychological thriller.Great writing, great theme, great pace of story.Psycho-lovers should read it once, they would never be upset or disappointed with it.Book Comprised about the experiment was used by Nazis around II WW with the Human brain.Love it. Enjoyed it alot.
