https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1902266.The_Star_King
Kill Bill – Jack Vance Sci-Fi style.Decades before Tarantino, GrandMaster Jack Vance set up the vengeance factor and turned loose the victim turned predator on an unsuspecting galaxy.The 1964 title pulp title makes me think of the Marvel film and comic Guardians of the Galaxy and the hokey delivery: “Star Lord”.
Like the Bride in 2003 Tarantino’s film Gerson has a lot of scores to settle and he has a list, and he checks it twice, and the bad guys on the list are in trouble.
In classic Vance style, though, Gerson wonders what he’ll do one day when his vengeance has been spent.For Vance fans and also for readers of 60s pulp SF.
Man, do I love the way Jack Vance writes. This is my very first story of his and I feel like I now want to read everything he has ever written. He tells an epic, galaxy-spanning story of betrayal and revenge in 200 pages. All I can say is awesome. Off to read the Dying Earth now.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. Classic Jack Vance tale featuring Kirth Gersen's quest for vengeance against the five "Demon Princes." The Demon Princes are criminal masterminds who led a raid on Gersen's home world that culminated in the " Mount Pleasant Massacre" that destroyed his family and his world. Kirth was then raised by his grandfather as a killing machine, adept in all of the killing arts, and motivated by nothing but revenge.
Everything from the prose to the way that chapters begin with small excerpts of in-universe encyclopedias, journals, etc., to help fill out the world just screams: "traditional science fiction."The story follows an assassin who is hunting down a so-called Demon Prince, Malagate the Woe. And he's travelling across the known universe to do it.It's about as bland and cliched as it sounds.
There is virtually nothing that could make you feel anything, positively or negatively, regarding the characters.If you like traditional science fiction, you might want to give this a shot, but I wouldn't count on enjoying it in any case.
Now it's time...Jack Vance's DEMON PRINCES saga consists of five short science fiction novels which each tell the tale of how Kirth Gersen tracks down and deals with one of the evil men who killed his family.
There was also a pair of shutters, now raised, which could be lowered to cover his eyes from the light, and which were painted to represent staring white and blue eyes similar to Dasce's own.Yikes!Kirth Gersen is the type of hero who was popular back in the 1960s when this series was written: a single unattached worldly man who's clever and brave, but only slightly more clever and brave than his enemies — a James-Bond-type hero.
It's not like the Jack Vance novels that I'm used to seeing: Kirth Gersen has none of the usual wit and banter about him, and while he executes a roundabout path to vengeance, this path has little digression and is not a picaresque.Pallis Atwrode, his almost love interest, is badly handled as a character and serves as little more than a plot token. She undergoes a traumatizingly horrible experience at the hand of a villain, but snaps out of it later when the story demands an upbeat ending.
First time read in Swedish translation (legimus)Second time read in Orbit ombibus (legimus)
To all sides hung stars by the thousand and the million: streaming, swarming, flowing, glaring, glittering; shifting silently one across the other, and the other across another still—worlds of infinite variety, populated by who knows whom; each drawing the eye, fixing the imagination, evoking wonder; each world an urge, a temptation, a mystery; each a promise of unseen sights, unknown knowledge, unsensed beauty.This is the first of Vance's multi-book series—a trend that he leaned more and more towards as his career progressed—and it presents the opportunity for Vance to really develop his vision of the future—the worlds of The Oikumene and The Beyond—which later blossomed into the Gaean Reach, which is used throughout his career in most of his future works.
The Star King is the first of five easy to read, fast paced, entertaining, well written novels that comprise the Jack Vance series called The Demon Princes.
When our main character, Kirth Gersen, was a 9 years old, five of the star kings organized an attack one of the colonies on a planet where all of the people, including his parents, were killed or enslaved except for Kirth and his grandfather.
But subsequent novels in the series provide more development to his character, and The Star King is more than simply a straight forward, easy to read revenge novel.
It's the best SF book I've read recently!
Hard-boiled science fiction.
The premise is simple enough - the first in a five book series in which Kirth Gersen seeks revenge against the five (obvs) Demon Princes: crime lords of the galactic future.
There's techie-space-jargon, but Vance uses technology interchangeably to magic: hand-wavery to move the plot along and create an overall atmosphere of disconcerting oddness.
Similarly, Vance has a hard time keeping focus on the tropes, and the book is easily distracted from Gersen's SPACE-ASSASSIN background to talk about, say, alien worms, or the geography of a dying star, or an inn built at the edge of the universe, or...

Another series I am re-rereading after decades. As with most Vance novels, the dialog is clever and the setting is imaginative. This is the first of the five book Demon Prince series about revenge against five criminals who killed and enslaved the protagonists family and village.
I have re-read all five books of The Demon Princes series at least seven times.
In re-reading the series, though...never do I skip over this one.
He does distasteful things because they are needful, yet excuses himself not at all.
And he feels the lack, laments its loss.
I like Kirth a lot.
It's a near thing.The series is an all-time classic that simply does not age.
It hardly matters that one has read it six times before.
One day I shall translate this series into Esperanto.
I liked the way that Jack Vance describes everything with so much details: the characters and the ambience.
It gave me a realistic feeling of being implicated in the action of this novel.
At the beginning it was quite unusual, for me, to read this novel because of the short introductions given in some chapters...
He is conscious that he must have patience to win and he thinks before taking any action.
I liked how J.
Vance sketches the fights, the beginning of a love story and how he, slowly but firmly raises the tension.
I enjoyed the way he reveals an interesting and captivating story.
Star Kings is Vance in top form. I've still yet to come across a Vance novel that I haven't liked, and it's looking like The Demon Princes anthology will not prove to be an exception. For fans of "space westerns", I heartily recommend what could be argued to be a precursor to the genre. Think Guardians of the Galaxy meets Cowboy Bebop meets Good the Bad and the Ugly - but with Vance's mastery of the English language and unique writing style. I could gush endlessly about this book, but I'm too busy reading Demon Princes #2! 5 stars.
A wonderful ride through the Oikumene,the known universe and beyond,until the unknown planets and stars...described as only Jack Vance could do!Races,cities and strange new planets,in the middle of a terrible vengeance rush against the 5 more terrible criminals known as Star Kings, developed by a survivor of a terrible massacre of his people when he was a little child,who has devoted his entire life to hunt and destroy them.The first book is about the chase against the elusive and nearly unknown "Attel Malagate",the Woe:let the story begin and envelope you in his compelling universe!
The first of a Vance space opera series. The main character, Gersen, is engaged in hunting down and exacting revenge upon the killers of his family. His search covers pretty much all the known galaxy. And he is almost as ruthless as those he is pursuing. I found this tale to be something more of a whodunnit than a straight space adventure. The reader gets to speculate along with our hero as to who the real villain is. Enjoyable.
A classicCaution; reading stories written this long ago they may feel like they fall victim to all the old memes. Tropes old and tired. Things you've seen in so many other stories. But these are the stories that founded the tropes, that started the memes. Plus you'll have to go look up words you've never seen. Seems like the old Masters knew language better than we do today.
I love Vance's writing and world-building, and the Kill Bill-like story of revenge was well done. I know the book is dated, but the treatment of the single female character definitely has me miffed.
These books are great. I just realized I haven't read the last one.
The first book of the great Jack Vance series. Word-Building wise its a quality book and it introduces one of my fav sf hero in Keith Gersen.
A well-written, very readable ‘60s sci-fi with a good storyline. Reminded me that the old stuff is definitely the good stuff. I’m looking forward to reading the rest of the series.
Good old-fashioned space adventure by the master Jack Vance. RIP.
"Humanity many times has had sad experience of super-powerful police forces.
Such a police force becomes merely an aggregate of uniformed criminals, the more baneful in that their position is unchallenged and sanctioned by law.
The police mentality cannot regard a human being in terms other than as an item or object to be processed as expeditiously as possible.
If a police officer kills a civilian, it is a regrettable circumstance: the officer was possibly overzealous.
If a civilian kills a police officer all hell breaks loose.
The police complain that they cannot function efficiently, that criminals escape them.
Better a hundred unchecked criminals than the despotism of one unbridled police force."
A long, long time ago...I first read this story in the now-gone but never really matched science fiction magazine, Galaxy, when I was about 12 years old.
Vance, and Galaxy, were more interested in the sociological and anthropological views than are most modern science fiction writers and publishers.
Also, Vance formed his style initially writing fantasy reminiscent of Lord Dunsany with a sense of humor.
That style works very well here.
Kirth Gerson reminds me of Batman, up against villains of comparable skill, the worst of whom is hiding in plain sight and must be identified.
I feel that the story is still a pleasure to read half a century on.
Clever protagonist must uncover the secret identity of a murderous star king and has narrowed it down to three interchangeable academics. Protagonist meets, loses, and saves a flat female prop and ultimately wins the day with surprisingly little blood on his hands. It isn't great, but if you likely already know what you're getting into if you've picked this up. Enjoy it like you would a 50's scifi flick on a Sunday afternoon.
This was more enjoyable than most of what I've read by Vance, but that's setting the bar pretty low. The main character is at least sympathetic and competent, which is a nice change. There's a bit less clever world-building than is usual in Vance, but there is some and it is integral to the plot. But it tries to be a spy thriller and a picaresque simultaneously and ends up being meh at both.
The Demon Princes by Jack Vance is a classic and I still loved it even the second time I read it. Full-on space opera, high-octane adventure, and incredible world-building. All written in great easy reading style.
