https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13538795-life-goes-on
Een zeer pakkend verhaal over het Duitsland tussen de twee wereldoorlogen. Beklemmend, deprimerend doch zeer goed neergeschreven hoe een hele maatschappij langzaam maar onomkeerbaar de dieperik ingaat. U wezen gewaarschuwd, huidige maatschappij. 'Als mijn vader blij is, huilt hij, niet zozeer van louter geluk maar eerder omdat hij op zo'n moment des te beter beseft hoe ongelukkig hij is.'
But none of that has happened yet: in Life Goes On, events seems hopeless and bleak and, the terrifying thing is, with the benefit of retrospect, things were still comparatively good compared to what is coming in the next decade.The unknown of what will be – to say nothing of today’s economic climate – is part of the story’s power, but I don’t want to undersell Dr. Keilson’s talent at tapping into the emotions of his characters.
I can not review this book, I find it too painful. Much of my Father's extended family was lost in the German concentration camps. Many relatives went through the painful post WWI years. We have also seen the changing economic model of the US job market and the uncertainty of our future. I find many parallels to this book. I gave this book 3 stars, not because I enjoyed it, but because it was a well written documentation of the times.

Dit merkt ook de vader van Albrecht, meneer Seldersen die een winkel heeft met kleding, fournituren e.d. Doordat zijn klanten steeds minder te besteden hebben, kan ook meneer Seldersen zijn schuldeisers maar nauwelijks betalen.
Albrecht gaat ook naar Berlijn, maar komt daar nauwelijks aan studeren toe omdat hij ook moet bijverdienen.Het leven in Berlijn drukt Albrecht met de neus op de feiten.
Als uiteindelijk zijn beste vriend Fritz zelfmoord pleegt, omdat hij geen werk kan vinden, en zijn vader failliet gaat, besluit Albrecht in de politiek te gaan.
Een boeiend boek over wat de neergang van de maatschappij, zowel economisch als sociaal, doet met een jongeman die nog zijn weg moet vinden.
One of the most depressing books I've ever read. Written in pre-Hitler Germany and set at the same time and location, it tells the story of a late middle-aged shopowner trying to keep his head above water and live a normal life uninvolved with the politics and sociology of the day, while all around him is falling apart. Shows how isolation is almost impossible in a completely interdependent world, with lessons for today.
3.5 stars. First published in German in 1933, then banned by the Nazis in 1934, this novel has just appeared in English recently. The tale of a family and their hardships during the hyper-inflationary period and high unemployment following World War I, it looks at the same world as Hans Fallada's Wolf Among Wolves and Little Man, What Now? (though without the humor of the latter). Keilson was only in his early 20s when the book was written, so it's an impressive achievement.
Keilson's highly-autobiographical novel -- published when he was just 23-years-old in 1933 and burned by the Nazis a year later -- is the story of one small family of merchants being slowly squeezed into financial ruin by the economic downfall in Germany between the wars.
Indeed, the novel ends with Albrecht and his father continuing to struggle in Berlin, but finally acknowledging the need for solidarity with workers, as opposed to going-it-alone in the spirit of independent entrepreneurship, which had only succeeded in isolating the family from their community as everyone's finances sink.
Not of people." Keilson shows us that books can only go so far in preserving memory.
“[Herr Seldersen’s] poverty had made him deaf and blind; he was excessively sensitive only within painfully narrow confines.”This sentence, about 50 pages from the end of LIFE GOES ON, strikes me as a pretty good synopsis of the story.
The Seldersens--father, mother, and teenage son Albrecht--are owners of a small shop in a small (unnamed) German town at the end of the 1920s during the economic collapse and unemployment of that era.
Herr Seldersen sees fewer and fewer customers in his shop, and those that do come in have to be allowed to buy on credit, when it’s obvious that their debts are unlikely ever to be repaid in full because the hard times are dragging almost everyone in his circle down.
Found this gem in the new book section at the library.Originally published in 1933 as Das Keben geht weiter, translated 2012 by Damion Searls.Hans Keilson - 1909-2011.
Published when Keilson was just twenty-three, his literary debut.
Shortly afterward Keilson, following his editor's advice, emigrtated to the Netherlands, where he would spend the rest of his life.Translators note- Shortly before his death in 2011, Keilson corresponded with Serls and told him the the publsher in 1933 had made him change the ending of the book, hoping to avoid political difficulties.Keilson, living in Bssum, the Netherland, wrote a hort afterwoor in the Spring of 1984.
The book is a biographical novel written by Keilson after the first World War and published in 1936.
It deals with two families and their associates who are suffering from the devastating economic situation in Germany which arose after the First World War. Most of the book is a plodding, depressing tale of the members of these two families and how their lives are crumbling under economic strain.
I've heard a lot about what Germany was like following WWI, but this piece brings alive the cruel chipping away of the meaning of daily life and ordinary hopes and dreams.
I have not read Hans Keilson's follow-ups to this book.
(duh!) I feel a certain sympathy for the poor Albrecht, an academiac and a dreamer, but what does he have at this point in Germany but to turn to politics in the hope of making things better?
And knowing the party he will join is the Nazi party, and that bad goes straight to hell, is heart-wrenching to take.I wish I had more time to spend with this novel.
I rapid-read it, and I have a feeling that took something out of my experience.
But it's a depressing book, and I have no wish to return to this soon.
Life Goes On is an autobiographical novel about a German family struggling to survive an economic crisis in the early 1930s, just as the Nazi Party was rising to power.
The book is mostly about the father, a shop owner, and his struggles with identity, pride and economic stability.
He feels ashamed when his business falters as his store begins to lose customers and he must invent schemes to at least seem as though he is increasing his sales and competing with other store owners.
This sets the stage for the unrest and disaffection of the German people as their economy crashes after World War I.
Here is the single problem I have with the library as my only source of reading material; I order books and most times wait for the book (either due to the acquisition of the book or a long list of requestors before me), when it finally arrives it arrives with several other new, waiting list, seven-day books; this was one such book.
I think by speed reading I missed some essential information and I regret that, but I will get this book again at a later date.
To think I almost didn’t read it because I nothiced it claimed on the back to be an autobiography, while the publishing firm had printed fiction on the top.
This was a rather sad book, about a German merchant and his family after World War I and the condition of the economy and how it affected their lives and those around them.
Well written, and although it is averaging 3 1/2 stars, it still is very good, but obviously a different kind of story.
The book was banned by the Nazis in 1934.
It is the story of Herr Seldersen—a Jewish store owner modeled on Keilson’s father, a textile merchant and decorated World War I veteran—along with his wife and son, Albrecht, and the troubles they encounter as the German economy collapses and politics turn rancid.
Slow to start, slow all the way through, but it becomes increasingly gripping despite the stagnant pace to end up as a horrifying narrative of the miseries of life in Germany post-WWI.
Hans Kielson experienced this and more and fled Germany, although his parents weren't as lucky as the Seldersens and eventually died in a concentration camp.I think the almost dull tone of the writing has something to do with translation, or translation from the hardly lively language of German.
But this was Hans Kielson's first novel after all.A heavy read, but fantastically insightful into a particular time and place.
I won this book as a FirstRead.Life Goes On tells the story of the Seldersen family in post-World War I Germany.
Germany is in the midst of an economic depression, and Herr Seldersen is struggling to keep his store afloat.I had previously not given much thought to the problems Germany must have had after losing the first world war, and this book was eye-opening to the problems the average Germans faced.
It makes me sad that this book is based on what actually happened to the author and his family during this time.The book was a slow read, partially because of the depressing material and possibly partly because it's the way books were written in 1930s Germany.
Hans Keilson's rediscovered debut novel, Life Goes On, was published in 1932 (the last title by a Jewish author until the end of World War II) and was banned in 1934.
According to the author's note at the end of the 2012 paperback edition by Farrar, Straus and Giroux, Life Goes On is partially autobiographical.
The family at the center of the book, the Seldersens, are not identified as Jewish, but the son, Albrecht, goes to university and makes a sort-of living as a musician as Keilson did before he emigrated to Holland...Read the rest of my review at A Bookish Type.
This book, part memoir, is interesting because it offers us a candid picture of the economic turmoil of Germany in the early 1930's unfortunately it's just not that well written.
The language is stilted especially during Albrecht's conversations with his teacher, Dr. Koster.
As he tries to express the angst of the young German male he falls into a trap of affected language which plagues many young writers.
Overall I would recommend this book only for those who are interested in a point of view written as the events were actually unfolding.
The afterword is very interesting also.
I enjoy reading about the period of Europe between the two wars.
This book takes a different route, it writes about a family in a village in Germany trying to survive in light of Germany paying crushing reparations.
I like reading about how people were trying to get by during the heightened tensions in Europe.While this book does not appear to be an existential work, the characters exhibit much of the same bleak view of the near future as do the characters in Sartre's fiction; the same disaffection in their lives.
However, the book drags on, the author never really develops his characters, except Albrect and his father.
And Albrect was just boring.
While this looked intriguing in the bookstore where I bought it, I found it to be a tough read, especially during the holidays.
It's about a German family trying to keep a small business afloat between the world wars and it's depressing.
Turns out it's also autobiographical and was banned in Germany -- indeed, the author ultimately left before the start of the Second World War. I think the thing that upset me the most about it was knowing what would happen to the family after the book ended as the 1930s progressed.
This book is a grim portrait of life i Germany between the wars. I related to it as it showed a small businessman struggling as his business fails. My father's hardware store struggled in the 80s with the rise of the chain hardware stores. This book reminded me of Hunger by Knut Hamsen in its bleak assessment, though this one is more hopeful at the end as the main character becomes politicized. It hit home given the current economic conditions as well with poor people struggling to get by. A sad book but very well written and a moving story.
Not a Holocaust book, but an explanation of the times that lead to the Holocaust. The sense of doom hanging over Albrecht & his family make for unbearably sad reading. The struggles of a small-town Jewish shopkeeper at a time of hyperinflation, growing unemployment and civic unrest bring to life the burdens of life in Germany between the two world wars. The author has a very distinctive, very flat style of writing that leaves much of the interpretation to the reader. Autobiographical.
Not a Holocaust book, but an explanation of the times that lead to the Holocaust. The sense of doom hanging over Albrecht & his family make for unbearably sad reading. The struggles of a small-town Jewish shopkeeper at a time of hyperinflation​, growing unemployment and civic unrest bring to life the burdens of life in Germany between the two world wars. The author has a very distinctive, very flat style of writing that leaves much of the interpretation to the reader. Autobiographic​al.
This memoir of the economically depressed period that preceded Hitler'srise to power in Germany is a sobering read. The parallels with our ownrecent economic downturn are clear. The waste of young people's abilities, motivation, innovation and initiative due to lack of jobs for them costs our whole society in ways that will play out far into our future.
I thought this was a grim, realistic autobiographical sketch of life between the wars in Germany. The whole book had an undertone of hopelessness.I am glad I read it though to get a better understanding on what it was like in Germany at that time. This book was written by a 23 year old. It was banned in 1933 y the nazis because it was very real about life in Germany at the time.
A profoundly chilling, first-hand account of pre-WWII-Germany and its slow, implacable descent in the madness of Nazi Germany, told from the perspective of a boy--a son of a middle-class, hardworking shopkeeper who sees his life's work slip away as the country appears to hold its collective breath--waiting to see what happens next. Oh yes, and they are Jewish.
"Everything was coming slowly apart…" "You could wait and see - that was it, wait and see how things turned out."Hyper-inflation, unemployment, bankruptcy, social and political chaos. The Weimar Republic, between the two World Wars; a time when traditions that had lasted centuries and had once seemed permanent and enduring now seemed to lose their validity.
Quite fascinating, yet incredibly depressing, yet pretty boring (but in a good way).The characters were nobody special, just every day normal, middle class people. Yet, the slow and deadly squeeze of stress and financial issues felt by the Seldersen's was palpable. Four stars because this semi-autobiographical novel hit me in the feels.
Not quite what I expected after reading the summaries, but it was all right. It gets a bit heavy in parts, both in terms of writing and mood. It reminded me of some of Hans Fallada's books, written around the same time.
It's dated but interesting. Good picture of life between the wars in a bad economy. Characterizations are somewhat flat as it's a fairly political book and the characters really seem to be there to represent different viewpoints.
