https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239399.The_Ghost_Brigades
I’ll check them out sometime.JS: Now that I think about it, that sounds kind of similar to your movie Avatar.JC: Huh..
Yeah, I guess there’s a few minor similarities there.JS: Of course, my genetically enhanced bodies are green and yours were blue so I guess that makes all the difference, right?JC: Uh……JS: You’re sure you never read them?
I just couldn’t help but wonder if maybe you hadn’t read my books and influenced your movie.JC: Obviously, for legal purposes, I can’t admit anything.Long pause.JC: This is the longest elevator ride off my life.JS: Oh, I never hit the button for your floor.
Things I like about John Scalzi’s 2006 novel The Ghost Brigades.1. It is the second book in the Old Man's War series, but not really a sequel, more of an expansion from the universe created by Old Man’s War. In this respect, Old Man’s War was more like a prequel, just crafting a setting for what comes later.2. Green super humans.3. Scalzi has demonstrated an adept ability to tell a serious story and have fun with it while still not taking himself too seriously, yet at the same time not devolving
Things I like about John Scalzi’s 2006 novel The Ghost Brigades.1.
It is the second book in the Old Man's War series, but not really a sequel, more of an expansion from the universe created by Old Man’s War. In this respect, Old Man’s War was more like a prequel, just crafting a setting for what comes later.2.
Consciousness transfer, somewhere Poul Anderson is grinning.Things I did not love about John Scalzi’s 2006 novel The Ghost Brigades.1.
Scalzi fails, maybe does not even try to channel Robert A.
and it is a thoughtful novel - I really liked how it carefully and quietly lays down small but important plot points that are clearly going to be even more important as this space opera continues.
is it supposed to be less repulsive because they are aliens?I think I might have been able to handle this in other circumstances, if it came in another sort of story - although honestly it hits me right in my perhaps one tender spot, the one that can't deal with graphic depictions of child abuse.
It just had a little help."I don’t know whether it was because I was more focused this time, but I believe I enjoyed Ghost Brigades a bit more than Old Man's War. Scalzi is extremely popular, and rightly so.
That said, this is Military Sci-Fi so things can get pretty serious too…Limbs in various states of processing lay stacked on tables.
Discarded heads rested in another barrel next to the table.I don’t want to go into plot details too much, other than to say that the ghost brigades of the title are the Special Forces of the Colonial Defence Force (as depicted in Old Man’s War).
*** 4 *** "...“When asked about it, Harvey called it his Occam’s razor theory of combat: The simplest way of kicking someone’s ass was usually the correct one.”..." The Ghost Brigades is the more serious sequel to the mostly parody that The Old Man's War was. The Brigades are the genetically modified Special Forces of the Humans in space, The Colonial Union, who are fighting in the front lines of the multi-species martial competition to colonize as many planets as possible. Our green warriors, y
The Brigades are the genetically modified Special Forces of the Humans in space, The Colonial Union, who are fighting in the front lines of the multi-species martial competition to colonize as many planets as possible.
They are "born" and immediately indoctrinated into the military system, thought that their existence is only to fight and die protecting humanity, and all of that with no real life experiences, no understanding of love or family, no memory of times of peace, quite, and happiness...
I think that As long as we are actively looking for the answers, we are a race which has hope.
In fact, he's mentioned in passing about once or twice, but that's it.Other than that, The Ghost Brigades is a typical Scalzi effort - a fast pace, some witty (and non-witty) banter, and cool concepts that keep the pages turning.The Ghost Brigades is definitely a step down from Old Man's War. OMW really hit the spot when I read it a number of years ago, the surprise at what these elderly folks were getting themselves into when they signed up for the military at the end of their lives was a great one and the action was non-stop for the rest of the book.Here, things felt a little more forced, even though I had a good time reading from start to finish.
You’d be better off without the ego.”The second volume of the “Old Man’s War” series is, in fact, an account of a young man’s war since the soldiers from the Ghost Brigades, the colonial Special Forces, are are basically children in adult bodies.
Now, Boutin is a former head of consciousness research division, who betrayed humanity and allied himself with the aliens.
In the “Ghost Brigades,” we discover there is a false bottom in the story.Additionally, ethical and moral problems are raised regarding manufacturing human beings.
All in all, Ghost Brigades offer interesting, though a bit gloomy vision of the universe.
The transfer apparently didn't take and Dirac joins the CDF's special forces, the Ghost Brigades.
Like the first book, it was funny in places.
Not only that, Ghost Brigades raises interesting philosophical questions like what it means to have a soul, nature vs.
I thought the plot was better in this one than in Old Man's War. I wasn't sure The Scalz could come up with a plausible threat for the Ghost Brigades but he more than did just that.While I didn't like it quite as much as Old Man's War, I'm pretty well convinced The Scalz can do no wrong.
“To everyone who thinks writing a sequel should be easy because you've already created the universe: Bwa ha ha ha ha ha ha! Heh. No.” Sorry, man. I feel for you, but it doesn't make me give you any sympathy stars.Why was this book sucky compared to the first one?We lost our old hero from the last book, John, and it was his wittiness and maturity that made the story way more than just some space war deal. John's humanity made his journey more compelling to read because we could relate to his fee
I feel for you, but it doesn't make me give you any sympathy stars.Why was this book sucky compared to the first one?We lost our old hero from the last book, John, and it was his wittiness and maturity that made the story way more than just some space war deal.
I swear that I expected him to explain pi to me at any moment.Men: over-complicating everything while still being patronizing fucks since the dawn of time.There is not much humor compared to the last book, but there were several very sad things.
Perhaps twice a winter, I enjoy making a big pot of chili, suitable for snowy nights and bone chilling cold.
I did struggle with what was supposed to an attempt at a more traditional sci-fi exploration of consciousness and soul.
Scalzi's handling seemed awkward and unfinished to me, perhaps because Ghost is more like an action book with a sci-fi setting and theme than an exploration of ethical and philosophical issues.
The point in saying that is that I've seen basically all the space travel sci-fi storylines that exist today and that makes The Ghost Brigades particularly average for me.The Ghost Brigades brings us back to the Old Man's War universe in the heads of multiple point of view characters of the Special Forces rather than returning to the mind of John Perry.
Perhaps it's best to admit the space colonization and fighting doesn't really work for me.The Ghost Brigades is a fitting sequel to the second half of Old Man's War. So if John Perry's time as a CDF soldier was an incredibly fun and exciting read for you then you'll undoubtedly enjoy The Ghost Brigades.2.5 stars out of 5
Before reading this book, a bunch of people had told me that it wasn't very good, didn't live up to its predecessor, Old Man's War. But while I do agree it's not quite as good as Old Man's War, I liked The Ghost Brigades a great deal more than I was expecting.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
He once described his works as “gateway drug” into sci-fi literature and that seems fair.The Ghost Brigades takes place sometime after the events of Old Man's War, I am not sure how much time has elapsed as this book features almost all new characters, except Jane Sagan.
I find The Ghost Brigades to be better written than Old Man's War but it is a little inferior in that the main concept is no longer new and much of the lengthy Special Forces training section is too similar to the regular soldiers training in the previous book.
Executive Summary: A fun sci-fi space opera. You won't get deep plot, just a fast-paced military story...IN SPACE!Audio book: This is the second book I've listened to by William Dufris. He's pretty good. He speaks clearly and with good inflections. You can tell the characters apart. He did seem to use the same voices as from Cryptonomicon, so I kept thinking of characters from that book. Overall though, I enjoy him as a narrator.  Full Review Somehow I hadn't heard of John Scalzi before last yea
There isn't some deep plot with twists and turns or a lot of complex characters involved in complex schemes.
What you do get is enough plot to keep you interested while the characters go about cracking wise and blowing stuff up.
This isn't so much a sequel to Old Man's War as it a stand alone novel that takes place in the same universe after the events of that book.
There are references back to it, but almost no character overlap or important plot details to remember.In a way this feels almost like book 1 again because you have the protagonist Jared Dirac going through the training of the Ghost Brigades.
Is it really important how you choose or is it more important that you have the ability to choose in the first place?Just now you chose to read my review out of a million other things you could have done, so thank you for that.
Will the military's plan work to get to the traitor through him?The Ghost Brigade is a different book from Old Man's War, the first one in this series.
But in the end, it's not really important if I choose to give it 4 or 5 stars, it's more important that I'm able to make this choice in the first place.
That said, you really have to read the first in order to get a grasp on the science background and the ongoing war between species.The CDF has discovered they had a traitor in their midst but he has escaped and instigated an alliance between three different species with the outcome being they team up against humans.
The CDF whipped up a new soldier to see if they could load the brain scan and hopefully find out what the traitor's intentions were.
This new soldier is Jared Dirac and he is the central character of the Ghost Brigades.As per Old Man's War, Scalzi comes at you hard and heavy with science fiction.

Ghost Brigades starts a new story after the events of Old Man's War. John Perry is not a POV character this time around, but Jane Sagan returns as a major character.
Complicating matters, the CDF learns that one of the architects and developers of the BrainPal technology, Charles Boutin, has turned traitor and the Ghost Brigades are called on to track down the rogue human before their own science can be used against them.As we learned in the previous book, the Special Forces are wired different to the average CDF soldier.
Fear is rooted in the knowledge that what you recognize as yourself can cease to exist.
Fear is existential.” This sequel to Old Man's War brings quite a different point of view of this universe.
The narration doesn't follow John Perry but in fact two members of the Ghost Brigade, section of the military introduced briefly in the first book, Jane Sagan providing the only real link between the two.
The thriller aspect of having a soldier made to receive the mind of a traitor opens another can of worms.I really enjoyed this book, easy to read, compelling and plain fun.
Book 3 next month, I guess.
It was also missing the humor that made 'Old Man's War' so much fun.A big part of the reason I had to give it 3 stars is that this story is so good, that it bothered me that much more seeing it handled so poorly.
The story itself is much better than that of 'Old Man's War', and it really blows open the setting and gives us a lot more detail about the universe these characters inhabit.
It also does a good job of setting up some future conflicts that - I'm assuming - we'll be seeing in the next installments.All in all, it was a really fun read, and brought up a few really tough moral questions and dilemmas.
The sequel to Old Man's War follows the titular Ghost Brigades (including Jane Sagan from OMW) as Scalzi expands his universe and further explores the moral and ethical implications of tube-grown soldiers and a space military that reports only to itself. Once you get past the exasperating info dumps in the first quarter of the book the action scenes are a lot of fun. Like in most Scalzi books, dialogue can be irritating at times depending on your personal preference for snark and your italics-tolerance level.
Ako nešto volim, volim kad je knjiga inteligentno pisana. A scalzi je očito svladao tu vještinu. Još mi je bolja od prve, prepuna je easter eggova, sinteze ideja iz različitih klasika SFa, a opet originalna. Puna je iznenađenja, radnja je cijelo vrijeme glatka i logična bez trzavica, i kraj je pomalo neočekivan ali sasvim u skladu s ostatkom. i nije preduga. napokon je netko svatio da knjiga ne mora imati 400 strana. 4.5 zaokruženo na 5
I am really enjoying Scalzi’s books; his contribution to science fiction has been great.This is the sequel to Old Man’s War, but it’s not necessary to read that one first.
The only character from that book that appears here is Jane.
The humor is not quite so prevalent here.Science fiction is a great way to explore questions about the human condition without getting boring or preachy.
Our main character, Jared, is a great example of this.
He’s a great character and really carries the book the whole way through.All the characters were well done.
I'll be continuing with the series, but with a little less enthusiasm, and a little more warily.EDIT: I will say that one of the best parts of this novel was the decision of Scalzi to analyze what spacefaring humans in the future would feel about the genre of science-fiction as we know it today.
Because the universe in this series is a hostile, war-torn place where everything poses a threat to the human race, much of what humanity once valued in science fiction has to be discarded -- especially the narratives involving friendly first-contacts and highly-evolved, utopian alien saviors.
3.5 stars. I enjoyed this book more than book one. I was so relieved that John Perry did not make an appearance in this book as I had found him kind of bland and boring. Instead, we get lots more Jane Sagan and a new Special Forces soldier, Jared Dirac, both of whom go on interesting journeys in this novel. And some worrisome and illuminating info is related by the antagonist, which will presumably be dealt with in later books in this series.
Odlicna knjiga, dosta bolja od prve i iskreno sa dosta vise interesantnih ideja narocito o ljudskim dusama i sta je uopste biti covek ili individua. I fokus na akciji je ovog puta daleko manji. Ali nema dosadnih delova.Preporuka.Ako svak knjiga bude tolko bolja od prethodne ovo ce bti uzitak.
The Ghost Brigades is set in the same context as Old Man's War, and links up to it in various ways, but the main protagonist is a different one with a whole different bundle of issues.
I liked the way it was done here, with the new consciousness not 'taking' because of the lack of experiences, and that the whole process resulted in someone subtly different.I wasn't entirely convinced by the protagonist or the antagonist.
The protagonist was necessarily not much of a character in himself, and although I did kind of like him, I didn't really root for him.
It was towards the conclusion when things really came apart and I felt like I was reading a cross breeder between Austin Powers and a late Steven Segal flick.(view spoiler)[ we have here a mad scientist with a grudge who wants to annihilate the whole human civilization in order to save it and a minimal commando team with superpowers going in with guns blazing and slaughtering a great number of generic adversaries who somehow manage to miss every single shot at the heroes.
(hide spoiler)]there is some promise for interesting developments in the next book, but it is no longer a priority for me.
Meni znatan pad u privlačnosti no i dalje dobra vojna space-opera.Izgleda kao samo jedna epizoda u općoj tematici no pojavila se negdje pri kraju informacija koja izgleda bitnom za nastavke.Scalzi je odlučio malo skloniti našeg glavnog djeda iz početka sage i od poznatih tu je samo njegova simpatija poručnica Sagan no to ništa ne smeta - i dalje odlična literatura za ljeto.Sad jedan mali odmor od teme pa povratak na treći nastavak.Više od trojke, manje od četvorke - ako vam se uvod dopao svakako nastavite.
On it's own - it's a good read. But if you'll compare it to Old Man's War - it doesn't have the same subtlety, depth and emotional impact of the first book. That said - I did enjoy the story. It's got science, humour, military action, unexpected ally and ..unlikely villain. That's one grumble I have about the book - I wasn't convinced about main villain's motivations and chosen methods in the end. Ah, well.. - I still enjoyed reading it and planing to get the next one.3.5*
