https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5946.In_the_Skin_of_a_Lion
4.5-stars “Alice had once described a play to him in which several actresses shared the role of the heroine. After half an hour the powerful matriarch removed her large coat from which animal pelts dangled and she passed it, along with her strength, to one of the minor characters. In this way even a silent daughter could put on the cloak and be able to break through her chrysalis into language. Each person had their moment when they assumed the skins of wild animals, when they took responsibilit
Christened ‘Prince Edward.’ The Bloor Street Viaduct.” He takes us to the tanners: ”Circular pools had been cut into the stone – into which the men leapt waist-deep within the reds and ochres and greens, leapt in embracing the skins of recently slaughtered animals." "They had leapt into different colours as if into different countries.” And later in the showers: ”They stood under the hot pipes, not noticeably changing for two or three minutes – as if, like an actress unable to return to the real world from a role, they would be forever contained in that livid colour, only their brains free of it.
It’s never a good sign when the first thing you do after finishing a book is to go to its Wikipedia page and scrutinize the plot summary for some hint of what happened.For some reason, I always choose to read a complex or very “literary” type of novel on what turn out to be my busiest weeks.
(I developed a unit for Grade 9s studying A Wizard of Earthsea.) Even my impressive ability to find time to read was put to the test, and it didn’t help that Michael Ondaatje’s prose and narrative are both incredibly stylized and poetic.
You will remember many scenes in this book for weeks - the nuns being tossed around by the wind on an unfinished bridge, a daring escape from prison, a confrontation (ending in a molotov cocktail) between a rich man who wants to disappear and the searcher that is looking for him to retrieve the woman he loves, and a final denouement at the Palace of Purification that is at the same time sad, thrilling and reaffirming of the basic decency of a human being.
He has the schizophrenic narrative of Faulkner and the fragmented working class romanticism of Raymond Carver.
Its interesting how much I adore Ondaatje while he reminds me of one of my mortal enemies (I'm talking to you Faulkner!).
His visual brand of prose-poetry reminds me more of a filmmaker than a writer.
I had a hard time getting into Ondaatje's world, to a point where I had to give up on "Anil's Ghost" after reading a hundred pages or so; but having become more familiar with his working class eroticism, and his signature ethereal narrative, I've grown quite fond of his style.
The writing, the manner by which the author has woven fact into a fictional tale and the book’s central message explain why I like this book as much as I do.
They are both beautiful and important.This is a book of historical fiction, its purpose being to draw attention to immigrant labor in the Americas, a group of people whose work should be applauded and given the recognition they merit.
The novel looks at Toronto in the beginning of the 20th century--the building of the Prince Edward Viaduct and the R.C. Harris Water Treatment Plant by immigrant labor with poor pay and working conditions.
The hard labor of these men and women is directly responsible for the creation of countries that have since developed and prospered, but the very people who made them are mostly unmentioned and forgotten by history.Ondaatje's novel is fiction, but filled with real events which took place in Toronto and elsewhere in Canada during that time: the construction of the Prince Edward Viaduct between Bloor Street and Danforth Avenue; suppression of workers strikes and demonstrations by the police chief Dennis Draper; the murders of Viljo Rosvall and Janne Voutilainen, two Finnish-Canadian labor unionists, and the mysterious disappearance of Ambrose Smalls - a famous theare magnate who owned several venues across Ontario, and whose disappearance was never solved (even Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was involved in it at one time, but ultimately chose not to pursue the case).
A book full of sights and more, signifying much, including, and in a big way, one of my favorite themes -- that of the 'little' people, the ones 'behind the scenes' of history, the ones we'll never know.After reading this book, I feel like I've been to Ontario and in particular Toronto during the early-20th century.
Toronto is a teeming, vibrant multicultural community, so much so that the main character from backwoods Ontario feels like the outsider.
Though to be completely accurate, he probably would've felt like an outsider no matter where he ended up, such was his upbringing and outlook.Be patient with this book if the beginning seems a bit slow or meandering.
Ondaatje uncovers the story of those whose labour created Toronto landmarks in the early twentieth century, deftly knitting up truth and myth, revealing the lives of those who were forgotten in the official version of history.
I don't think I ever really took note of the book until the film came out, so it must have been 1996, when we had just moved back to Germany from Austria, because I have a clear memory of trying to read it in bed on a mattress on the floor.
With moving and coping with all that entails, I know I was only reading a few pages in bed at night before falling into a coma.
There is a scene, in the very beginning of this book, during which Patrick Lewis, primary voice among the the half-dozen or so protagonists, watches Scandinavian men skate home over a frozen river on a dark winter's night in Northern Ontario, carrying handfuls of burning cattails over their heads.
Ondaatje, who is the rare poet capable of writing great fiction, describes the scene thusly: "It was not just the pleasure of skating.
A wind catching the skirts of a young nun and sending her spinning out into the air and into the arms of a daredevil bridge builder.
Nuns,actresses, missing millionaires, orphan girls, burglars, radicals, immigrants and great marvels of engineering.
I got through the first fifty or so pages solely because of the poetic language of this book.
Otherwise I would have meandered my way, got lost somewhere, looked around for help, and finding none, tossed the book away.
And except for Patrick, the main protagonist, the other dominant characters are mostly immigrants, whose lives and toils are described with painstaking detail, but still subtly sensual.
It is a book with many pleasures, romantic and poetic in part, and greatly rewarding for anyone who wishes to read some thought provoking stuff.
Dig in, with patient and assurance that you'll be rewarded in the end.
Ondaatje lays down on a wood grained table, an axe, fallen trees, a log jamb, explosives, the building of a bridge and a waterworks.
As he speaks in his mesmerizing words his agile hands tent and curl, through the fingers arise images of a hallucinogenic prose.
In short declarative sentences he calls forth the onset of a first LSD trip; the shock of boundaries melting away, the particles of the world slowed and oozing with meaning.Ondaatje is clearly someone who can create a burning solvent in a lab that steams words beyond their summit of representation and into the scalding approach of what is real.
Despite the poetic language, this was quite a quick read. I will re read it again though as the language is complex and there are things that still do not make totally sense in my head. This is will not be a chore as the language is beautiful and eminently evocative. I wish the plot and characters' motivation had not been so difficult to fathom at times, lost is some land of magical realism. Great book still.
Probably one of the best novels I ever read, better even than "The English Patient".Time to read it again.
I read this book because we are headed to Toronto at the end of August, and this was described to me as the "quintessential Toronto novel." However, I found myself scanning pages and anxiously hoping that I would get to the end.
Not signs of a good novel for me!Some passages I found intriguing--notably the ones about the workers building the viaduct, tunneling under Lake Ontario, and laboring in the tannery--Ondaatje has a knack for describing the dirtiest and most dangerous sorts of work and helping the reader understand what it is like.
The best book I've read in 5 years.
The prose is poetry, and the genetic connection to Ondaatje's earlier prose-poem works like "Coming through Slaughter" is obvious.
But the power of this book resides in his characterization - you come to be absolutely devoted to the individuals - and I choose that word deliberately - that populate this novel.
Ondaatje's genius is in the scenes he puts before us, which are almost emblematic of the character's personalities and values.
I dare anyone to forget the beauty of the scene when Caravaggio escapes from prison.Simultaneously a careful character study and a novel of ideas.
Ondaatje's best, by far.
I'll concede Ondaatje has an elegant way of stringing together lots of beautiful words and phrases and moments, but I don't think that that alone can make a book.
Others have said they think the characters in this are so real as to make you utterly devoted to them.
This felt to me like Ondaatje had a lot of beautiful images in his head that he wanted to string together, but had no cohesive, workable story, so instead, he opted for the pastiche of past and present, from the perspectives of a dozen different people, so he could get them out but hide the fact that the story was weak.
Ondaatje is so talented. This is a slow, stunning read. I was lucky to read a good Turkish translation but would very much love to read the original again.
In this book, Patrick Lewis describes the lives of the people who surround him in Toronto in the 1920s. Patrick begins to learn, from their stories, the history of the city itself.
Ondaatje is always a stunning writer, his prose brushing up against poetry in the very best of ways, but In the Skin of a Lion rivals The English Patient with its imagery.
I re-read this novel about once a year, and every time the first cracking of the spine is an almost spiritual experience.
Ondaatje is a rare writer of historical fiction in that his background knowledge is clearly immense, but he doesn't feel the need to lay it all out in the open.
As with The English Patient, Ondaatje flings improbable combinations of people in improbable circumstances into a world that is so richly researched, it feels surreal.
I understand why his prose is appealing, though it's the sort of thing nobody can do without occasionally seeming laughable (not even Virginia Woolf).
Before then, you had books and people winning these literary awards that weren't so self-serious and stuffy and IMPORTANT LITERARY FICTION-y.
Stuff like Guy Vanderhaeghe's brilliant short story collection Man Descending (he would win again, post-English Patient, but for The Englishman's Boy, which is IMPORTANT LITERARY FICTION, and exceedingly so), Robert Kroetsch's The Studhorse Man, and a number of other writers like Richler, Wiebe, Robertson Davies etc.
who all wrote very good literary fiction without being insufferably self-important and serious.
There is a quote in the book that seems to sum up my feelings of this book: "Only the best art can order the chaotic tumble of events.
The chaos and tumble of events.
The first sentence of every novel should be: 'Trust me, this will take time but there is order here, very faint, very human.' Meander if you want to get to town."  This book is a chaotic tumble of events, and the author tries to be the "best art" bringing order to it all, but I'm not sure if it works entirely for me.
I know that he wrote "The English Patient," which became an epic romantic film with Ralph Fiennes.
But not only is "The English Patient" a wonderful book, but ALL of his books are beautiful.
He makes even the most absurd things beautiful (e.g. pouring milk all over someone's arm, mouth-to-mouth semen exchange).
This is the novel that made me fall in love with Ondaatje's writing.
I love the sense of awe and mystery, of being on the outside, of making discoveries.
Epic romantic films with Ralph Fiennes aside, Ondaatje's writing is top notch, and it doesn't get better than this one.
This is my favourite of Ondaatje's novels, and I am quite the Ondaatje fan, so.
This is pomo in ways that are by now familiar: interested in collage-style historical documentation, nonlinear, imagistic, in opposition to grand narratives, obsessed with artistic creation, etc.
And I love that stuff, because it is awesome.
But what really makes this work is Ondaatje's prose, which is lush and visceral and delicious - he invests all of his characters with a specific kind of depth resultant from the lingering way he lets the narrative dwell upon them.
A long-time favourite.
It is about so many things: how immigrants cope with a new land, how they learn the language of that land (hilariously by listening to Fats Waller songs in addition to going to plays and memorizing the lines along with the actors.) How they find beauty in hardship and how they revolt against poor working conditions and prejudice.
HIs characters accept that life is difficult but when the gulf is so wide between the rich and poor, he also portrays their realization that fighting back against oppression, is the only way to gain voice in this historical context.
If you were to ask me what this book was about, I wouldn't be able to answer you.  Literally, 90% of this book didn't make sense to me. Fortunately, (or maybe unfortunately) I'm not obliged to write a review about it since I only read it for school. - I would have DNFed it ages ago if I could. :p Kay, byeeeee. 2 stars!
This 'humble epic' about Canada's working class in the early twentieth century is a memento to their sacrifices and to the injustice of their condition, a book made so much better by its lack of political extremism and by its dry, solemn prose; and it is also a wonderful and heartbreaking love novel.
I loved the writing, and I managed to read it fairly quickly, but overall I wasn't too invested in the characters and plot. This was one of his first novels, and I look forward to reading more of his. I absolutely loved his next book, The English Patient.
This was actually not bad, but I didn't really enjoy it so I can't give it more than 2 stars.
compelling, beautiful, breathtaking, poetic. Will fill your head with unforgettable images - a nun falling from a half built bridge caught by a daredevil construction worker, tunnels illuminated by torchlight under a lake, explosions and prison escapes, necklaces, cows stuck in rivers, a room filled with hanging mysterious puppets slowly twirling, a man painted like the sky, clothes and all, light and sound filling your senses. Sometimes I didn't believe the dialogue, but was carried along anyway.
Overall, my thoughts are mixed... while this is a superbly written book and I enjoyed it, I didn't love. And I found the large breaks in time in the story confusing and a bit frustrating. The story is beautifully written. And I really enjoyed the historical aspects of the building of Toronto. However, I was frustrated by the lack of character development; just as you would get into a character's story, the character would be dropped.
