https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70824.Under_the_Sea_Wind

Having recently read Silent Spring, I wanted more of the author's fantastic writing.Nature writing at its best in vivid, lyrical prose.
It is utterly amazing the extent to which Carson makes the reader feel part of their aquatic existence.
It is a great technique and coupled with her engaging writing you follow each one with rapt interest.
The vocabulary is too advanced and the scientific details too plentiful for the lines to feel childish.
This allows the listener to marvel at the beauty of the prose.
My only reservation in recommending this book is that it fits best those who appreciated nature writing
The island lay in shadows only a little deeper than those that were swiftly stealing across the sound from the east. On its western shore the wet sand of the narrow beach caught the same reflection of palely gleaming sky that laid a bright path across the water from island beach to horizon. Both water and sand were the color of steel overlaid with the sheen of silver, so that it was hard to say where water ended and land began. That's just beautiful, right? This is the opening paragraph in a 20
On its western shore the wet sand of the narrow beach caught the same reflection of palely gleaming sky that laid a bright path across the water from island beach to horizon.
The narrative feels reminiscent of everything Attenborough produced for the last 50 years.As I was finishing this book I was reflecting on how much of Carson's writing I found familiar - and then it dawned on me just how much of the world does not live close to the coast; how many people have never witnessed anything she describes first-hand.
To them this book must feel like reading a piece of science fiction describing another world.Stinson Beach, California
Of course, this is a glimpse of the rivers and seas as they were back in the late 1930s, i.e. somewhere along the scale between the original pre-human superabundance and today's polluted and almost fishless wastes; reading this, I found myself hoping that Carson can't see from beyond the grave what has been done to the oceans she loved.
And that is what comes across here most clearly of all: how much she loved the sea and everything that lives in it - it shows in every sentence, page after brilliant page.
I would say that Caron's writing actually eclipses nature film: it allows to push deeper beyond the exciting, shimmering tilt of a school of fish to contemplate the entirety of Nature's magical production, past, present and future.An illustrative passage: "Here in the red clay, in the darkness and stillness, lies all that remains of ancient races of sharks that lived, perhaps, before there were whales in the sea; before the giant ferns flourished on the earth or ever the coal measures were laid down.
All of the living flesh of these sharks was returned to the sea millions of years before, to be used over and over again in the fashioning of other creatures, but here and there a tooth still lies in the red-clay ooze of the deep sea, coated with a deposit of iron from a distant sun."
A lyrical exploration of the wildlife of the eastern United States over the space of a year, mixing prose and science in a way reminiscent of the later books by Richard Fortey.
Rachel incorporates elements of children's books in her way of naming animals and following their individual lives, yet this is just one aspect weaving through a poetic yet scientifically rigorous description of these coastal waters and of the abyss looming off-shore.
The sense of connection with the wild is strong within these pages.
Unbelievably beautiful. Its another of those books which demand to be read out loud. An extraordinary description of the life of rivers and seas. A prose love poem, you might say, to mother nature. If you love being inspired, then read this one.
If you liked this book, you might also enjoy:✱ A Sand County Almanac and Sketches Here and There✱ Winter World: The Ingenuity of Animal Survival✱ Summer World: A Season of Bounty✱ At the Water's Edge✱ The Book of Barely Imagined Beings: A 21st Century Bestiary✱ The Forest Unseen: A Year's Watch in Nature
In it she tells charming nature stories, poetically spoken yet full of scientific fact about ocean animals and the interrelatedness of life in ocean, estuary, and river.
She looks at the changes in this ecosystem throughout seasons and lifecycles, from the viewpoint of her animal characters.
She often names these characters based upon parts of their scientific names.The action takes place from North Carolina to Maine, on the Eastern US seaboard and in its associated watersheds.
With sensitively rendered and scientifically correct illustrations by Bob Hines, this book is suitable for reading to children.
An incredibly scientific and detailed description of the life cycles and behaviors of a number of creatures that inhabit the water and air along our coastal zones. The main characters, a black skimmer (a shore bird), a mackerel, and an eel, are imbued with human thoughts and emotions that pull the reader in to their world. A fascinating, well written introduction to ecology.
this is a natural classic; should be read by everyone who loves nature
And it is all a True Story, in that it is based in the science of what actually occurs during mating, hatching, fledging, migrating (whether by sky or ocean), giving birth, existing during various seasons and in various temperatures, and eventually passing back into inchoate matter.
One of the most important books I have ever read, as it takes us out of the center for once, and describes our human existence within its actual web of life.
Reading this book is not merely a wonderful replacement of the human perspective with the view of sea-going creatures, but it is also a re-affirmation of the power of the written word to bring completely new things to life for a reader.
For Carson is able to bring the reader along into the sea and paint pictures as stunning as the Blue Planet documentaries, with a voice as mellifluous as a David Attenborough nature narration.
She may be most famous for Silent Spring, but Under the Sea Wind is simply brilliant, practically making you feel the cold of the winter spray off wavetops, and sense the change in water pressure against your skin as a larger creature swims by.
Rachael Carson.
Having read none of her books and being (somewhat) environmentally conscious, I thought this wold be a diatribe against big oil big agra, big business, etc and such.Instead I found myself engrossed above and below the sea, exploring this world through the beautiful imagery of Carson's words, the undersea portrayed through the eyes of a young mackerel, or the long East Coast during annual migration to the Arctic as a bird.
The balance of nature and the worries about predators was portrayed through these characters.
I didn't want this book to end, reading the well thumbed glossary at the end completely though to savor more of her writing.
4.5/5 what a delightful journey!
Magnificently written.
I flew with Rynchops the black skimmer, Blackfoot and Silverbar, the two sanderlings, Ookpik the owl, Kigavik the gyrfalcon, and I lived for a few minutes their day to day, their struggles, their needs, their calls.
Through Scomber the mackerel, Aurelia the moon jelly, Anguilla the eel, I was allowed to have a glimpse of the magic world of the shore, the open sea, and the sea bottom, of the cycles of life and death, of the unimaginable complexity of the interplay of life in the water.
Rachel Carson shows us and explains a fascinating underwater world. Rachel Carson was the rare author with the ability to make me care deeply for the fate of a young Mackerel, or be a axed by the life journey of an ell. I found it best to read this book over several days, a few chapters at a time. By doing this, the book remained interesting and fun to learn new things, rather than overwhelming with too much information .A readable and informative book.
Finished the book one day after Rachel Carson birthday. I read this as a paper book not a Kindle and was always switching between my Tablet to Google for pictures and definitions. In the first chapter a Black Skimmer is introduced and I have been taking pictures of them recently has a lay on the beach. I am going to return the book to the library and buy another copy i can mark up and underline.
This was Rachel Carson's first book, published 20 years before Silent Spring. It is excellent nature writing, similar in style to Sally Carrighar and Vinson Brown. It did not do well when first released, but gained popularity with publication of her second book, The Sea Around Us which was phenomenally successful.
Beautiful, lyrical writing. I remember my dad reading me this (or perhaps The Sea Around Us) when I was a kid, just because the language was so lovely and the subject matter (sea creatures and their environment) was a family passion. I got a little tired of Carson's personification of some of the fish and birds, but in such a perfect book that is a small nit to pick.
Carson's first book is a beautiful tribute to the natural world, making one appreciative of its beauty and importance.
This was not quite what I had expected, nevertheless, it was well written and held my attention. Some of the descriptions were heartrending.
Rachel Carson was a gifted author. Her intelligence so visible in her vivid writings. We need more environmentally conscious scientists like her.
Well researched, written well but still a bit dry. She weirdly anthropomorphized the ecosystems and organisms she wrote about.
"Under the Sea Wind" was far ahead of its time. An erudite, beautiful, and almost mystical evocation of sea and shore life, it is a classic of American environmental writing. Clearly a response to her times - Depression and world war - the book expresses the ceaseless rhythms of the natural world, and man's efforts to profit by them. She manages to inject affecting drama into natural scenes and managed to make the life cycle of eels wondrous. Highly recommended, particularly if you are reading it by the sea of a large lake.
But it's not only fish and birds that struggle for life, man, too, plays a part in the modern sea.
While Roberts's stories were inspired by his life growing up in a hunting and farming community in the back-woods of Canada, Carson's "Under the Sea Wind" is based on her lifetime of observation and knowledge of the natural world.
"Under the Sea Wind" is book 1 of Rachel Carson's "Sea Trilogy" (**) and all three books are considered to be one of the most "Definitive works of American nature writing" to come along in decades.
Dear Rachel Carson,Before I read Under the Sea-Wind, I looked into your other literature including your best known work, Silent Spring, and the lovely book you wrote for your nephew Roger, The Sense of Wonder.
I read your works with the kind of respect I know only for five hundred year old oak trees with Spanish moss hanging from their ancient bows.
I read of these friends, likely passed away by now.
Under the Sea-Wind is Literature because none of it was pressured writing.
Most of us want to work to preserve what we have left of our sea fairing friends.
I enjoyed the brief introduction that told the story of how Carson came to write the book and how the advent of World War II delayed the "discovery" of this classic for a decade.I really liked how she highlighted the circles of life.
Carson writes a larger world into being.And, now for my confession: This was a good read, but I was not a good reader.
Good news for Atwood is that Carson probably played the role of the buffer book.
Having said that the vastness of nature is never far away with Carson always prompting us of the bigger picture,  Here in the red clay, in the darkness and stillness, lies all that remains of ancient races of sharks that lived, perhaps, before there were whales in the sea; before the giant ferns flourished on the earth or ever the coal measures were laid down.
All of the living flesh of these sharks was returned to the sea millions of years before, to be used over and over again in the fashioning of other creatures, but here and there a tooth still lies in the red-clay ooze of the deep sea, coated with a deposit of iron from a distant sun.
In this book, she narrates scenes in the lives of various animals living in or around the ocean.
She brings to life their needs and desires, making it seem like more than just basic instinct and the will to survive.
And yet I keep hoping that the more main characters, like Scomber the Mackerel, escape the predator, be it fish or man.
If everyone read a little bit of this book, I think they'd begin to care and realize that the ocean is not just a giant, bottomless puddle.
It's a book that makes you think, that's for sure.
The main problem I had with Under the Sea Wind was the fact that I like my non-fiction to be, let's say, less fictional.
This aspect may very well appeal to those looking for a lighter environmental read but I like less lyrical, poetic prose and more science and facts in my non-fiction.
Some, old or sick, would drop out of the caravan and creep away into a solitary place to die; others would be picked off by gunners, defying the law for the fancied pleasure of stopping in full flight a brave and fiercely burning life; still others, perhaps, would fall in exhaustion into the sea.
