https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17150.My_ntonia
you're welcome, cather estate!this isn't a novel as much as a loosely gathered collection of stories in which the characters progress through time, grow up, lose their illusions, and make their way in the world; finding themselves in and defining themselves against the vast nothingness of the american prairie.jim and antonia are children who arrive in black hawk, nebraska on the same train, and the book is an account of their lives both apart and together,through to their adulthood, framed as a series of recollections by jim, as he remembers antonia to a mutual friend and examines what she symbolized for him.the descriptions of the landscape are phenomenal.
And yet narrator Jim's Ántonia epitomizes the immigrant's dream.
Yes I know this is a eulogy offered to the prairies edged in gold in the dying light of dusk, an attempt to memorialize a way of life that the ill-informed city-dweller cannot begin to imagine, the author's wistful contemplation of a time and place frozen only in the amber of her memories.
But Ántonia's version of the American Dream envisages a life of simple self-sufficiency, despite the hardships it may entail.
For Jim Burden, Ántonia is home, indelibly associated as she is with his boyhood days spent chasing rabbits and prairie dogs.
Throughout the book, Antonia Shimerda and her warmth belong to the land and the people who love her, and when someone calls her “my Antonia” it means something about that belonging.It is impossible to truly identify with Antonia because Cather writes her in this unreliable way, and so, even though she is a painfully real character, she is told with lovely mistakes – the mistakes we make in talking about people we love who we don’t understand, who are not like us.
This Nebraskan prairie civilization is like the dogtown that lives below it. It is a web of families & favors. And that's the way of life. Antonia, the magnetic and emblematic figure in the middle of it all--in this narrative of remembrance, of singular impressions--is a strong rock, a hardworking beacon of goodness in a world that is simultaneously vast & asphyxiating, with its rattlesnakes, sicknesses, suicides and slight silver linings. Also a sight to behold: the kindness of strangers & how falling in love cannot possibly occur in the prairie, that ever-desolate place in our very own American continent.
“I’d like to have you for a sweetheart, or a wife, or my mother or my sister-anything that a woman can be to a man. The idea of you is a part of my mind. You influence my likes and dislikes, all my tastes, hundreds of times when I don’t realize it. You really are a part of me.” --Willa Cather, “My Antonia”Oh, Jim! She really did a number on you! I guess it couldn’t be helped, because after knowing Antonia Shimerda, I can’t help being enamored with her myself. It is not even easy to say things so
Nevertheless, “My Antonia” is not a love story, it hardly focuses on that aspect at all.
It shows us what these people have to contend with, and struggle for, that goes to the very heart of their lives.Now most of the pioneer stories I have come across depict rugged and determined male characters out to tame the wilderness with know-how and grit, while their female halves are relegated to supporting or (I dare say) insignificant roles.
“My Antonia” breaks from that convention and instead, focused more on the struggles of the women.
Antonia faces hardships of scratching out a living on the prairie, while having to do so as a woman, and while dealing with the challenges of being an immigrant as well.
Cather manages to show the language development Ántonia goes through,and also the development of her character from being an ordinary little girl playing with her sister and friends, to working "like a mans" in order to support her family: "The older girls, who helped to break up the wild sod, learned so much from life, from poverty, from their mothers and grandmothers; they had all, like Antonia, been early awakened and made observant by coming at a tender age from an old country to a new."Having moved around a bit I really enjoyed the descriptions of the landscapes because at least to me, apart from food, that's what I miss the most about leaving a place: the familiarity in scenery, flora, and fauna.
This novel, more than any of the two previous novels, reminded me absurdly yet so strongly of Kent Haruf’s novels.
The way the setting was described and how they shared that moment together - their last time together until twenty years into the future - was so beautifully poignant it just moved my soul.Once again, Willa Cather’s skill as a writer, her ability to create brilliantly coloured moving pictures with her words, and her keen insight into the hearts and souls of many diverse characters shines in this novel.
James Quayle Burden loses both his parents at the tender age of ten in Virginia, by the Blue Ridge Mountains, sent by relatives to his grandparents (Josiah and Emmaline Burden) by train, in the custody of a trusted employee, that worked for his late father , teenager Jake Marpole, reaching the farm, safely, in the still wild prairie state of Nebraska, newly settled, by Americans, the Indians have been scattered, and are no longer a threat , but the harsh frontier land remains untamed.
“Some memories are realities, and are better than anything that can ever happen to one again.” (p.259)More than a Wild West story about the adventurous frontier life in the Nebraska plains, I thought My Ántonia was a novel about red seas of prairie grass and hard blue skies and black ploughs outlined against crimson suns and adults chasing the casted shadows of their pasts.
I might never see those plains but at least I can walk down the path of Jim’s memories of red blades of grass and his Ántonia’s electric blue sky, where their souls remain eternally married in a past that becomes the prevailing reality and their one and only Destiny, and feel that I am home.
It's so much more than that.It's one of the stories that America is founded upon: Immigrants who've left their homeland on the promise of a better life in the new world.
The immigrants this time around are Czechs, referred to as Bohemians in the novel.
My own family came to America from Finland about the same time this book is set.
As alluded to at the start of this review, this novel is all about the character sketches.
However, since the characters come alive and are so very lively, the lack of a hard-driven, singular plot is no hinderance to one's enjoyment of My Antonia.
Both lived on a farm for the early part of their Nebraska years, then both moved into a small nearby town (Black Hawk in the novel, Red Cloud in Cather’s case) around the time they were ready to start high school.
Rather that the things that deeply affect Jim Burden are the same things that deeply affected Cather, as she grew up in a small town just like Black Hawk, knowing and knowing of the immigrant families that had come to America and thence to Nebraska to farm the prairie.Cather’s book is filled with achingly beautiful passages about all of these things.
An'-ton-ee-ah That's how her name is pronounced, and not like An'-tow-niya which is how I always thought it was. I found this clarification, at the very start of the book, remarkable(for me) because it changed the way I read about her, till the very last page. At every mention of her name, my mind tried to pronounce it the Bohemian way, thus, never letting me forget the eccentricity and congeniality of this unforgettable character.I have somehow spent almost a month reading this little book and
Sometimes, it was about the Bohemian migrant family; Sometimes about the flat, windy, golden, snow-clad, rather indelible prairie; Sometimes about the narrator Jim Burden; Sometimes about me; Sometimes about nostalgia; Sometimes about romanticism; And sometimes about struggles that one goes through and what they come out of them to become.A young ten year old Jim, after losing his parents in Virginia, comes to stay with his grandparents in a country farm in Nebraska.
Perhaps we feel like that when we die and become a part of something entire, whether it is sun and air, or goodness and knowledge.
Willa Cather moved with her family from New England to rural Nebraska as a child, at a time when new farmland there was still being pioneered, so this tale of the state's development and specifically the experiences of the first generation immigrant farming families from Eastern Europe and Scandinavia that settled it, is inevitably coloured by her own experiences.
It was also interesting to read a story that is so positive about immigration at a time when there is so much paranoia about it in popular political culture.
I read her and I forsake all others, for she tells me that no one can give the sensation of place through narrative, and also deliver such soul-stirring and wistful storytelling quite like she can.She gives me quiet country in the form of a first person narrative mode that keeps me so invested that for a week, I live in the head of Jim, a man looking back at his boyhood in a prairie town, and suddenly, there I am, next to him, in scenic reverie, I had the feeling that the world was left behind, that we had got over the edge of it, and were outside man's jurisdiction...This was the complete doom of heaven, all there was of it.
Cather, a lesbian who never married, also offers up a glimpse into the lives of strong, determined women in a hardscrabble world dominated by men.A gentle, nostalgic feeling suffuses the book, and it’s full of love and affection for the industry and ethos of a bygone era.
Middle-aged James Quayle Burden (Jim Burden), a successful lawyer for one of the big Western railways, delivered his memoir in an envelope on which he first wrote 'Antonia', but then changed it to 'My Antonia' to reflect his own memories of a girl who had the fire of life in her eyes.
They were all Jimmy's childhood friends out on the farms, and enjoyed pivotal roles in his decisions.Life played itself out on the prairies, where the soil was tilled and planted, the winds raged over the fields, and girls worked as hard as their families to celebrate prosperity when it finally came.
To speak her name was to call up pictures of peoples and places, to set a quiet drama going in one’s brain. ‘My Antonia’ is a story of home and homesickness. Of the memories of a lost home that persist in the mindscape as the warm gusts of wind and the singing of the larks. The home of that golden sunshine and yellow leaves, red shaggy grass and blue skies. The images which make me think of home as the quietest, friendliest corner of a crowded and uncaring street, of that kind touch in midst of
The images which make me think of home as the quietest, friendliest corner of a crowded and uncaring street, of that kind touch in midst of the falling walls of life, of the bittersweet pain that persists in the heart as long as one lives.
Because what she is, is everything that is earthy and beautiful, and essential and heart-felt, and primitive and pristine, and childhood and innocence, and life and love, and its harshness and tenderness, and its hard earned lessons.
He declares his inability to lose himself among impersonal things, with his memory always crowded with people and places of his own past, strengthened and simplified like the unchanging blue of a clear summer sky.
There are little bits of drama here and there, like when two Russian immigrants share the truly horrifying reason they had to leave their home country, and Antonia lives a life of quiet, constant struggle and suffering that Jim either doesn't feel the need to point out, or just doesn't notice.
I'm sure there's a very good reason that Cather makes Jim her narrator, and has him show the reader Antonia through his eyes (did Cather suspect that it would be hard for a woman to sell a book where a woman tells us about her own life?
I never stopped thinking it was beautiful, and even now, after I have lived in California for almost a year, I feel lonely and heartsick when I contemplate my Midwest, now left in the past, in so many ways.I read My Antonia soon after moving here, when I was in denial of how homesick I was, and the words of Willa Cather destroyed all denial:"The old pastureland was now being broken up into wheatfields and cornfields, the red grass was disappearing, and the whole face of the country was changing.
Upon arrival to Nebraska, 10 year old Jim Burden reflects, …"I wanted to walk straight on through the red grass and over the edge of the world, which could not be very far away … if one went a little farther there would be only sun and sky, and one would float off into them, like the tawny hawks which sailed over our heads making slow shadows on the grass.”I was touched that Willa Cather could find such beauty in this country and so eloquently portray this out-of-the-way (and often disparaged) region of the Great Plains.
Like Jim Burden, I left that rural part of Eastern Colorado for the city; but, this author’s elegantly described details of the Nebraska landscape were true for me as well and provoked some deep reflection and restored appreciation for the region where I grew up.
My latest encounter with a masterwork -- a novel I just completed in order to teach, and one that seduced me wonderfully and quite unexpectedly.
Cather's Nebraska story goes over ground that's never much mattered to me, Midwestern farm country.
MY ANTONIA is an essential contribution to the immigrant project for our culture and country, uplifting and yet entirely clear-eyed about our sins and foibles, and ultimately among the finest depictions I know for how a community is forged out of those who drop down into our heartland speaking broken English and barely scraping by.
Sí, puede que se trate de mujeres inmigrantes, y mi abuela no lo era, pero hay parte de la misma adversidad y los mismos prejuicios de las chicas de ciudad a su origen rural que mi abuela solía relatar.Eso no quiere decir que las cinco estrellas se deban solo a mis sentimientos.
Me ha parecido una gran novela, escrita magistralmente, con ese amor de Willa Cather por los paisajes de su infancia y perspicacia a la hora de detallar a ese grupo de mujeres, a ese grupo de personas de una comunidad, todos emigrantes de distinto origen, que se encontraron en América.Sí, una vez más Willa Cather está hablando de inmigrantes europeos blancos.
I wasn't "forced" to read this in high school but it was on a list of books an English teacher asked us to choose from and report on.The experience was so awful that I've never cracked another Cather novel since.Added 12/29/08: Apparently I was not the only young man "traumatized" by an early experience with Cather.
She feared that instead of discovering her stories and novels on their own, children would grow up with unpleasant memories of being forced to read her work.
My Antonia is a staple of high-school English classes, but seldom a favorite with students, especially teenage boys.
What are you doing!?)I mention this only because I thought about Little House on the Prairie while reading Willa Cather’s My Ántonia (the same thoughts snuck into my head during O Pioneers!, but to a lesser extent).
Except it needed a little more sex and violence.” My Ántonia begins with an unnamed, first-person narrator telling about a train ride across Iowa with her friend, a successful lawyer named Jim Burden.
Both Jim and the unnamed narrator are obsessed with a Bohemian girl named Ántonia, whom they both knew from their childhood in Black Hawk, Nebraska.
My Ántonia (Great Plains Trilogy #3), Willa Cather My Ántonia is a novel published in 1918 by American writer Willa Cather, considered one of her best works.
It is the final book of her "Great Plains trilogy" of novels, preceded by O Pioneers!
The first year in the very new place leaves strong impressions in both children, affecting them lifelong.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه جولای سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: آنتونیای من - کتاب سوم از سه گانه چمنزار؛ نویسنده: ویلا سیلبرت کاذر (کاتر)؛ مترجم: پرویز داریوش؛ تهران، امیرکبیر، 1335، در 327 ص؛سه گانه چمنزار: کتاب نخست: اوه!، پیشگامان!
A Cornhusk3.5er (a worthy trip to the Great Plains, but not especially compelling)This 1918 novel is a nice portrait of a slice of American frontier life as experienced by immigrants and women in the late 1800s.With a fascinated child's keen eye, Cather's narrator Jim Burden recalls Antonia Shimerda, his childhood friend and crush who moved to the Nebraska prairie frontier with her stout and sturdy Bohemian immigrant parents as they searched for better living.
Burden (Cather) paints his Antonia as the epitome of a pioneer woman in her toil and tenacity, her generosity and gusto.
This tugged my heartstrings in empathy for Jim Burden.
If there were no girls like them in the world, there would be no poetry.Frankly, I don't quite trust myself to put into words just how beautiful and hypnotizing Willa Cather's writing and story-telling ability is. This is one of those books you just have to read for yourself. The prose in this novel is outstanding and the characters and setting come to life as easily as breathing. Trust me, this is a hidden gem in a sea of classics.
Inbetween you try and survive the winters, trickery naturally leads to illegitimate babies too - our Antonia is the proud mother of one of these.Those keenest to escape rural drudgery move to the coast to open boarding houses for sailors and up sticks to the Klondike with the goldrush with a view to providing support services.A key moment I felt was narrator Jim Burden (view spoiler)[ now that's a weighty name (hide spoiler)] reading Virgil's Georgics and as Virgil through poetry preserved his native region for posterity, so to Cather ,through Burden, makes Nebraska a realm of the muses.
I should probably start off by mentioning this isn't my favourite sort of story to read about.
I don't particularly care about prairie life or this era of America, so I'd probably never love this book.
That being said, I'd heard enough good things about it to give it a try.
In the end I had mixed feelings, there were parts of the story that really drew me in and I liked the writing, but at other times I lost interest in the characters and the setting.
Glad to have read it, but I probably won't read the previous books in her Great Plains trilogy.
In her earlier O Pioneers!, from the first line her virtuosity was evident, but perhaps if I hadn't been so impressed by it there I wouldn't so instinctively have grasped it here.
Certainly the absurd and implausible introduction (positing My Antonia as the hastily-scribbled autobiographical work of a lawyer who has, so far as we know, never written before) would not have helped, and it's unfortunate that my edition (Broadview, 2003) kept the longer early version of this introduction intact, only printing Cather's preferred, much-shortened redraft as an appendix, because these pages are her only serious misstep.
