https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/659864.Here_Comes_the_Sun
The tale begins by an escaping dog ending by bringing an eligible young man and woman together in the middle of nowhere and forced to take refuge alone in the cabin of Jim's political nemesis.
I enjoyed how the setting in Maine in the 1920s played into the story.
Though The story is not specifically Christian, I enjoyed how Julie's identity as a preacher's daughter informed her moral convictions and her decisions; also, it was a joy to get a glimpse into her parents and how her parents had raised her to make good decisions and then trusted her with them despite some of her unusual decisions.Content: some swearing
Sweet, fun little story with a strong, spunky heroine. This one is a bit old fashioned and dated but it is authentic to the time it was written (1924). There is a little mystery to be solved which reminded me of an older Nancy Drew. In this book Julie is 23. I did enjoy this book and give it 3.5 stars.I have been humming the George Harrison song since I started this book. While I do like the song and enjoyed Abbey Road, it's time for the song to get out of my mind!
If the smuggling plot is not particularly well done, I still appreciate Loring's attempt to point out the seriousness (in those days) of turning a blind eye--or even participating in--bootlegging.
I also appreciated the political race that figures into the plot and that the hero is determined to run his campaign for state senator without digging up dirt on his opponent.
He makes the point that good people stay out of politics because they're afraid of mud-slinging and he wants to show that it's possible to win without slandering his opponent.
This is a sweet book. All Emilie Loring's book are almost overwhelmingly sweet and wholesome, with prose that is just WAY TOO descriptive. However, the basic story structure is fun, in the dated, contrived "oh, your honor has compromised. let's get married in name only, and redeem it". always a set up for romance in books, and usually a good payoff for the reader. Like this one. It's a good, sweet, fun read. Read it when you want to just relax and enjoy a book that's not too demanding.
It was pretty good. some parts were very boring, but the climax was exciting and i couldn't but the book down. Julie was supposed to be a strong and tough character but at times seemed very whiny.
read 02.09.84
I loved this Emilie Loring books. It is so mysterious and romantic.
This is one of the best Emilie Loring books I have read; and, I have read all of the printed books. I would recommend this series to anyone of any age.
A really fine story by Emilie Loring..with a satisfying conclusion..loved the characters and loved the story!
I started reading Emile Loring books when I picked up a paperback from a rack in a hotel lobby (for 50 cents) while on my sister's & my yearly vacation to visit my father.
Hooked!
I went on to purchase and read every Emilie Loring romance written and available in paperback, not knowing, until Goodreads, that she had died before I was even born.
I loved these books, but read them all when I was between about 13-14 and perhaps 18 years old - I had favorites and lesser favorites, of course, but I no longer remember which was which.
I enjoy old black and white movies. I could totally see this book as one (well it WAS written in 1924- lol). Cute book.
