https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/944076.Last_Argument_of_Kings
Because, even after the first two volumes, every character will STILL surprise you.
Because Glokta is the best fantasy character I've found since Tyrion Lannister.
Because the ending is perfect.
Because every character's actions are spot on.
(Despite the fact that we sometimes don't need quite as much explanation as we get.) Because we need more fantasy authors willing to give people like Terry Brooks, Margaret Weiss, Tracy Hickman and Robert Jordan a really good wedgie.
(Giving dead people wedgies might be in bad taste, but it's occasionally necessary.)Because worlds with swords and sorcerers are boring when they're perfect.
Because people are boring when they're perfect.
Because perfect things are boring.
Because this series is totally not boring.
and so the excellent First Law trilogy concludes. this was a splendid experience and certainly a hearty one as well. many things to consider and many enjoyments to be had. a full meal! and quite a bitter feast at that.and here is the Last Argument of the title, succinctly delivered by the ferocious sorceror Bayaz: "Power makes all things right. That is my first law, and my last. That is the only law that I acknowledge." SPOILERS FOLLOWthis is a really marvelous series. bold in intent, clear in p
for such a contrastingly (to the first book) action-packed novel, the decisions of how to end these two adventures is rooted in the need to illustrate failure - so much so that the novel functions as a sardonic critique and attack on the use of Quests and City Sieges in fantasy.
this happens in two distinct ways: (1) showing the true darkness at the heart of its sometimes rather loveable characters and (2) giving the novel's various narrative threads some of the bitterest versions of happy endings that i've experienced.to the first goal, it is important to point out what Abercrombie did in the second book: he made his characters highly appealing.
"Say one thing for Last Argument of Kings, say it's dark fantasy at its best" Logen's father said.
well, as Logen Ninefingers always said "you have to be realistic about these things."Last Argument of Kings is the conclusion to the First Law Trilogy and it completely delivered on all aspect of great quality dark fantasy.
It provides a fitting ending to the trilogy, it's dark, funny, bloody, oh yes it's really bloody, intense and packed with fast paced actions.
However, it doesn't change the fact that Abercrombie really pay attention to details and gave one heck of a fine trilogy into the literature world.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Say one thing for this reviewer, say she's a weak-minded sucker.She really enjoyed the first two books of Joe Abercrombie's The First Law trilogy.
But she was kind of hoping, even daring to expect, that the last book, Last Argument of Kings, might have an ending that was, if not perhaps exactly happy, at least somewhat satisfying.Unfortunately, Last Argument of Kings was more realistic than happy.
The story ends (for better or for worse), but there was none of the freshness that was so exciting in The Blade Itself.
Read more Joe Abercrombie book reviews at Fantasy Literature .
The end of this series is a cleverly crude mirroring of it’s opening, and it’s just so damn hilarious. I’m saying no more regarding that, but Abercrombie never fails to make me laugh. Logan Nine-fingers is such a great character; he really is the strongest aspect of this series.  “You can never have too many knives, his father had told him. Unless they're pointed at you, and by people who don't like you much. ”  His wise courage allowed him to defeat the impossible. Only he would have survived s
Logan Nine-fingers is such a great character; he really is the strongest aspect of this series.
Abercrombie sure knows how to write an excellent battle sequence, but the one on one combat at the end of the book is a whole new level of gripping.
I hope one day that we finally get to see his end, whatever that may be.
I think we need to because at the moment Logan’s story is far from over.
An origin story would also be quite good.
Strong endings all round 
Logan is not the only great character in this series.
The story is not as good.
Is even Bayaz enough to defeat the Gurkish?Apart from my Dark Tower reread of 2011, It's been a long time since I read the final book in a fantasy series.
The Last Argument of Kings, final book in the First Law trilogy, is way up in the series ender hierarchy.The manure hits the windmill in a serious fashion in this volume.
All the revelations toward the end blew my mind.There are so many things I want to gush about in this volume, like Bayaz using the Seed against the Eaters, Glokta marrying Ardee West, and the fight between The Bloody Nine and the Feared.
4) And that turns out to be the point of it all, the philosophy the series intends to convey: That everyone is a total shit and you will die and death will be awful and degrading, but that's what life's like anyway so who cares.
4a) I think it's because that's the IT of the series that I found the book so dispiriting and also retroactively ruinous of the first two, which I no longer particularly like knowing what they'd lead to.
It ends up not TRYING to say anything more then the easiest black or white thing it could say, and it's even worse when you have this feeling the author COULD HAVE DONE BETTER.
I guess I was just hoping Abercrombie would be able to salvage some of his characters and bring the story to a satisfying conclusion, but frustratingly, most of the characters end up less likeable at the end than they were at the beginning, and the book's "conclusion" feels loose and sloppy.I'm okay with a "no good and no evil" sort of world, with ambiguous heroes, but for crying out loud, Abercrombie can't seem to come up with a sympathetic character, or any sort of heroic progression.
By the end of the book, there was not a single character I was rooting for, and I really didn't care whether they lived or died.
Dusted.It’s going to be a while before I’ve properly assimilated everything that happened over the course of the series.
His only care was to turn the living into the dead, and it was past time for the good work to begin.A word of honour has to go to Inquisitor Glokta, whose inner musings are a delight and whose story is rife with intrigue and delivers the most surprises.It always amazes me, how swiftly problems can be solved, once you start cutting things off people.As with the previous books, there is a lot going on, mostly concerned with warfare.
“Mercy and weakness are the same thing in war, and there's no prize for nice behavior.” When your two favorite characters in a book are a master torturer and a warrior who occasionally is filled with so much bloodlust that he forgets who he is and is as likely to kill a friend as much as a foe you really shouldn’t be surprised to have mixed feelings at the end of the series.But I was surprised. Maybe I’m too used to the series I’m reading ending by tying everything up neatly in a bow and giving
When your two favorite characters in a book are a master torturer and a warrior who occasionally is filled with so much bloodlust that he forgets who he is and is as likely to kill a friend as much as a foe you really shouldn’t be surprised to have mixed feelings at the end of the series.But I was surprised.
He made me love characters that I shouldn’t have liked at all.
I mean who loves the torturer in a story, but Glotka is one of my all-time favorite Anti-Heroes.
Secrets revealed! Plots twisting here and there! Maybe you could outguessed some of plots? The good news is even if you did outguessed a plot, it didn't make the story less fun. Some of the plot twists were actually simple, but the author's execution skill is marvelous. Oh yeah, your memory that still held the details of book one would be rewarded handsomely on this book.
It provides a definite(if somewhat disappointing) ending to the trilogy that still leaves space for the characters and story to be further explored in the following standalone novels.SPOILERS Jezal's character development was easily the best written in this series and among the best I've seen in any fantasy.
For me that scene and it's results rendered Jezal's entire character development throughout the series completely meaningless.
One of my favourite characters throughout the series, West was the only major character who died and he did so in a completely meaningless, off-hand way after the climactic battle was already concluded.
Thematically, Abercrombie seems to be exploring what forces drive us human animals.
Yes, truly, you will be rooting for this torturer to succeed throughout the entire series.In the end, most of the story threads are resolved and come together in a way that overall satisfies...although as we know, life isn't fair so Abercrombie leaves us with a few intentionally unresolved events and an uncertain future.
Or for those readers interested in taking a dip into an incredibly well-crafted and literary fantasy series (as long as you don't turn away from some brutal violence).
Maybe I should write something like that.""A little late for that now, ain't it, boos?"Well, what else is successful?""Star Wars, boss.""That's an idea, finishing a trilogy and then living on it, creating tons of follow-up stuff and Merchandising.
Maybe we even get Natalie Portman to play a role in a crappy prequel.""Natalie Portman is mentioned quite often in book reviews lately, isn't she, boos?""Makes you suspicious, doesn't it?""So, we're still in need of an ending.
I'm definately delving back into the First Law universe with the three standalones, but most likely not right away."Mr. Abercrombie, sir?""Yes?""About these Northmen...""What about them?""There's more of them now.
Wow what a satisfying and thrilling conclusion to the first law series! Abercrombie does a full circle and connects the story arc beautifully in this last book! The characters all have defining and proper conclusions. Nothing is sugarcoated and much on the contrary this almost feels like a Grimm dark fantasy ending. Amazing characters, hilarious dialogue and non-stop action makes this a must read!5 Stars
Nimeni nu primeste ceea ce merita, "Trebuie sa fi realistic".Trebuie sa recunosc ca as fi putut foarte usor sa urasc cartea aceasta, si am avut destule motive, dar vine Abercrombie si si cu talentutul lui scriitoricesc le varsa, le aduna le leaga cu funda si trage concluzii care iti lamureste intrebari, dar lasa sfarsitul suficient de deschis cat sa-si puna cititorul intrebari.
Regretul vine cand dai ultima pagina si te desparti de personaje.
Au fost personaje pentru care am fost trista , pentru altele stiu ca trebuia sa ma bucur , dar nu am putut, si mai sunt si personaje care primesc totul.O serie magnifica pe care o iubesc datorita personajelor.
Everything seems to be lost, but some powerful people still have some cards to play (very weak ones I might add).This is the book to which I can finally give 5 stars without any doubt.
The writing quality is still top-notch, the characters remain interesting and some of the weak ones from previous books finally developed into real 3-dimensional ones.
You will also get much better understanding of the whole picture after the first book.My final recommendation: definitely read the trilogy, but beware of its dark nature; if dark fantasy is not what you like, avoid it even if this is one of the best examples of this particular sub-genre.
I fully enjoyed reading people’s reviews and bringing back the memories of those who I have since said my farewells to and glad to see that so many people differ on certain things such as favourite characters, whether they enjoyed the ending overall and if this is one of the better fantasy series to come onto the scene in recent years.
It didn’t grip me as much as the second novel (also I think this is a first ever for me where the middle book in a trilogy turns out to be my favourite and I think I might be alone there looking at people’s opinions on this one) and there was a bit too much plodding in parts like at the very end after a hectic 150 pages beforehand.
Wow. Just finished, and that was a book that was just...
Glokta continues to be the character you would love to hate, except that he is the very essence of tortured humanity.
Truly an impressive but uncomfortable work.
The dark side of fantasy, not because it delves into Evil with the capital "E," but because it shows how choices and character continue to drive us, perhaps causing us to make the very same mistakes, or the choices we make when we have no choice at all.
(view spoiler)[ The final scene between West and Glokta is tear-worthy.
In short time he has become one of the leading names of the genre, mainly thanks to the First Law trilogy that concludes in the Last Argument of the Kings.And after finally completing the trilogy, I can't help but coming to the conclusion that Abercrombie has nothing to offer to me.I freely admit that he writes very varied characters, who have believable flaws and internal struggles.
The transition from one character to another no longer offers an interesting contrast, and the plot twists start to become very predictable.
So in the end, Last Argument of Kings was let down by a combination of far-too-predictable twist and a weak background story that was delivered in an uninspiring way.Joe Abercrombie is clearly a talented writer.
(hide spoiler)] Jezal dan Luthar had probably one of the best character arcs ever through the course of the trilogy, he changed so much as a person and still felt so realistic.
Nearly every time he enters the scene at the end of the book I just wanted him to disappear or send him to hell honestly.
(view spoiler)[It is so frustating to know that nearly every bad direction the story took was mostly his fault in the end and even more frustating that no one is really able to do anything against him.
Excellent completion of the series, but I think the writer with this book just opened a fantastic world in which live characters from the book.
Honestly, sometimes a writer does not have any mercy on the main characters, but in a world that they live anyway no mercy for anyone.
The book is so much upheaval, lies, and deception that you simply have to enjoy reading.
If you like fantasy books, then this series not to be missed, a world that was created by the writer, is fantastic.
The main characters such as the supreme magician Bayaz, Logen, Glokta, Jezal, Feero, simply can hate or love.
I mean you should have seen some of the shit I cheered for, and wouldn't hit me until a few minutes later like "what the hell Lem, when did you sell your soul to the devil?" or my personal favorite reaction "I should never speak of this otherwise I would get committed" except for here on GR because it's a safe place and all of us bookworms go bonkers for the worse pieces of shit out there in literature :'DAnd then the Ending happens!!
First book is like an awesome introduction, second book has one of the most amazing character building scenes I've ever seen, and third book I just want to keep it near me so I can reread some of my favorite parts whenever it hits my fancy (Petrik you know of what I'm talking about *starry eyes*)
With Last Argument Of Kings Abercrombie delivered a perfect or 'as-perfect-as-could-be conclusion to this series .
And the war which had been building up since the last two books finally occurred .
A villain who thinks he's a hero .This is a series with some of the most layered characters I've ever read .
And that's why its characters are the reason I love this series so much .
Or my personal favorite Sand dan Glokta to Logen Ninefingers .
A lot of folk getting killed that don't deserve it .
The highly anticipated war was really nicely done .
(hide spoiler)] which distracts from the real nuclear bomb that has been dropped at the start and is slowly building to general destruction of everything you thought you knew.
Of everything that was so carefully constructed in Book 1 when Abercrombie really took his time to build solid foundations for all his characters.(view spoiler)[Tolkien learnt us to trust the grumpy old wise wizard that lives in seclusion most of the time, but comes out of hiding and heads to court when things get tough.
“All this has happened before, and all this will happen again” The book even ends how it began.
(hide spoiler)]
Say one thing for Joe Abercrombie, say he writes like a motherfucker.I've been recommending this series to all of my fantasy-reading friends, most especially those all into the George R.R. Martin type of gritty-ass fantasy.See, I did it myself.
So I word it thus: in the world of dark, realistic fantasy, Martin is Hitchcock and Abercrombie is Peckinpah.
Plus, it makes me seem SUPER douchey and elitist, just the way I like it.So, hey, I'm reviewing a book.
I'm not opposed to that, but I've tasted the sweetness of Abercrombie action scenes, and it's hard to go back.The characters that you love and hate go unexpected places in this book.
Prvi zakon odličan od počeka do kraja.Trilogija puna dinamike,humora i obrta.Likovi su dobro razvijeni.Tu i tamo neka predvidiva situacija ali ne u tolikoj meri da pokvari celokupan utisak.Bilo je uživanje čitati.
Just finished The Last Argument of Kings...Mixed feelings.Definitely it is not worth re-reading, otherwise it would be like Logen, pissing into the wind.
While you have to be realistic is a good motto, the ending is not realistic because life is shit and people do not change is overplayed.The Blade Itself starts with a chapter 1 - End, and The Last Argument of Kings ends with the last chapter - Beginning.It explains a lot.
In the beginning the main characters were in shi*t, and in the end they wandered into the same sh%t.Nothing really has changed.
Say one thing about Joe Abercrombie, say the man can write!I am still amazed by the quality of the prose and overall finesse of this series.
I absolutely loved Abercrombie's writing style and respect the polished excellency that this entire series carries.The profound depth of the characters is also something I must applaud.
None of them were really 'the good guy' but I found that I loved them, not only DESPITE their faults but oftentimes BECAUSE of their faults.
My only complaint was of some of the content.
It was overly violent, brutal, vulgar and so very very bleak.
It is the last book in The First Law trilogy (happy 'cause it ended quite good and sad 'cause it ENDED)and I can say for sure that it is the most striking in the trilogy and one of the most gripping stories I've read so far.
And of course they are heroes (and antiheroes) not forgeting my beloved one, Sand dan Glokta,who steals the show and further fortifies his role as one of most interesting and intriguing characters in the trilogy.
Ah, and we can't forget Jezal dan Luthar, such a bastard in the beginning, he makes some hilarious shifts in his character and actually becomes a likeable king.
