https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179033.The_Chronicles_of_Thomas_Covenant_the_Unbeliever
I had to finish the first trilogy (for some reason) once I started, and I was miserable!
I picked up the first book in the second trilogy and it was again "Oh woe is me.
My life is awful, I dare not believe anything good.
I will spread my misery..." I flung it from me and now avoid this writer like the plague.Thomas Covenant is the world's most miserable, gloomy, wretched, irritating, hateful, abhorrent, despicable, contemptible, disheartening, forlorn, self pitying excuse for a (make believe) human being it's ever been my misfortune to read about.
I read this trilogy with a group of friends so finished them.
Plus, the follow-on trilogy tells almost the same story with almost the same point to it.So, what's the fuss about?Covenant isn't "Tolkien with the serial numbers filed off." That it holds together with a complete fantasy story in a clear, magical fantasy world and you never once want to compare it to Middle Earth is a good enough start to recommend reading it.
This isn't bus reading and no book is right for everyone, but it's an audacious and brilliant series that flexes fantasy's power to drive character.
Covenant discovers that therein he is regarded as the reincarnation of Berek Halfhand, first of the High Lords who ordered the affairs of humans within the Land in harmony to the Earthpower of living Nature, defeated the insidious destructive influence of Lord Foul, and received the friendship/allegiance of the stone-skilled, expert-sailor Giants, the Haruchai, who, in the Bloodguard, form a personal, death-defying corps of protectors for the High Lords, and the Ranyhyn, great horses of the plains.
The battle scenes that fill the books are also worth mentioning, unique and well written, they surpass many of their peers, putting great wars like those in Lord of the Rings to shame.
As I said, the first book is weak compared the rest of the trilogy and contains a scene near the start so repulsive that it might deter some readers from persisting.
Finally, the brutality may be just too much for some readers, at it's darkest moments it will leave you feeling gutted in ways that other fantasy books skimpily don't.
I won't read the sequel, but I'm secretly hoping that the original chronicles were as marvelous as I remembered them to be....At the time I read the first trilogy, I'd just re-read Tolkien and was indulging in other high/epic fantasy novelists, which were popular at the time: Feist, Wurtz.
The reason was that Donaldson successfully challenged conventions of the high fantasy genre by utilising a true anti-hero as the protagonist.
In a way, I've only seen George RR Martin handle flawed anti-heroes as successfully (Jamie's rise from tossing Bran off the balcony).I'm hoping that these original chronicles are still being read.
All you really need to know about this series is that in the 13-page first chapter of the first book, Donaldson uses these words: spavined, desuetude, turgid, condign, gratuitous, dyspeptic, melanoma, immedicable, improvident, lambent, immanence, celerity, preterite, abnegation, carious, and exudation.
In chapter four, I laughed out loud when he wrote, "A grimace like a clench of intransigence knotted her mien." That's just silly.
I am convinced that Donaldson wrote at least the first book on a drunken bet.
If you haven't read this steaming pile of excrement, don't get sucked into wasting your time with it.
Many people complain about these books because it moves slowly, or because the main character is reprehensible.
The only thing I can say is “Deal.” When you have a series of books centering on the salvation of a lost and embittered man, he’s not going to start out being a nice guy!
If you want your fantasy heroes to be handsome, valorous, strong, and virtuous, go re-read Tolkien.
They’re not for the faint of heart, and they aren’t light reading, but they’re an immensely satisfying, adult fantasy series.
I've read these books at least a dozen times, and it's been a different experience each time.
“Part of him wanted to weep...
but his purpose was rigid within him.
He felt he could not bend to gentleness without breaking.”And part of me wanting to dive out a window.
Anti -hero's should be written in a way that the reader develops some shred of empathy or understanding for, otherwise you're left with a story centered around a character that you don't give a damn about.
Thomas Covenant is a selfish and bitter character who's sole redeeming quality is that the reader be expected to pity him.
This story was depressing, bland and forgettable.
On the one hand, you have a main character who is a complete jackass--probably the first antihero that I ever encountered, now that I think about it.
Add to that Donaldson's swallowing a thesaurus and tendency not to either show nor tell enough, and you'd think you had a disaster on your hands.On the other hand, you have a fascinating premise: the main character is a leper, he's brought into a beautiful, magical world, he's impossibly healed, and he doesn't believe a bit of it.
These people and more, plus the fascinating world of the Land, make the books worth reading even when you want to kick Covenant's backside and suggest he grow up a little.
I've tried. And tried. And it will never happen. I will never like this series. I made myself read the first trilogy last year, in order to get past the infamous first scene (You know what I'm talking about). I hated it. So, put it in the "life is too short" category! Some people love this series. So, try it if you'd like.
Covenant is an almost impossible to like character.
And then throughout the books, people die for him, sacrifice themselves for him, offer him the gift of their own existence, all while he still firmly believes he is dreaming of a fantasy world and it's all inside of his head.
All of them contain thousands of pages of story, but that is part of the magic that fantasy books give you: so much world in which to get so absolutely lost.
This volume, which contains the first three books, is 1150 pages long, and I have read it in three days.
The main character is a strong anti-hero (something I had not encountered much before), deeply flawed, and the structure of the alter-universe lends itself well to the notion of a free-will world.
Like a darker, infinitely more grown-up cousin of The Chronicles of Narnia, this lends itself well to discussion of theology.
Upon graduation, I left "The Land, to those who know it" in the senior year "Will and Prophesy".
Sadly, my handwriting was not that great, and it was published as "The HAND, to those who know it." Not the same, even a little.
We don't like the main character, but we're not meant to, we can't really understand the Land because of barriers put up and it's inherent strangeness but then there are the parts that linger, the phrases and ideas, you find yourself mouthing along as Foamfollower repeats "joy is in the ears that hear" or Mhoram's dread declaration that "in dreams i hear him laughing"the story is reasonably simple, following a bizarre altercation with a beggar Covenant is knocked down by a police car, but wakes up in a place called the Land where a shadowy ominous figure gives him a message, either you can help me now and I'll attack you in 49 years, giving you plenty of time to prepare and still lose, or you can be defeated now by this lesser evil.Covenant believes the whole thing to be a dream at first but later maintains that the Land cannot be real even when it's determined to prove otherwise.
The entire Chronicles by Donaldson is one of my all-time favorites. Such a fascinating concept, to give us a main character who is not heroic but must in the end redeem the sacrifices made on his behalf. Out of all the fantasy I've read I think Donaldson is the best writer I've come across in the genre.
This furthers the idea that the whole thing is a figment of the hero's imagination and simply represents two aspects of his personality fighting it out during periods of unconsciousness.In the second volume, Covenant, in addition to having to deal with the adult consequences of his previous visit, is faced by a second person, Hile Troy, who leads an army in defence of the land who is also from our reality.Eventually he sacrifices himself in an interesting way to achieve a Pyrrhic victory.
The hero?, Thomas Covenant ( a leper), whines, cries and rages his way thru page after page after page.
A quarter of the way into the book a young, innocent girl of 16 tries to befriend Covenant, takes him to her home to eat and meet her family, and he repays her by losing his temper and raping her.
At this point I threw the book down and refused to read anymore.
After a few days I decided that something must radically change in the plot because the book has so many good reviews.
A great, epic fantasy series, second only to Tolkein, in my opinion. It has a similar depth and background that Tolkein brought to his universe. Not always an easy read, but it rewards patience. A great hero/antihero is born in Thomas Covenant!
This was an excellent dark fantasy series, remarkably original, particularly for its unlikeable anti-hero Thomas Covenant, a man with leprosy who finds himself thrown into an epic conflict in a fantasy world which may be a dream following a terrible accident in the "real" world.
Such dismissals are highly unfair, however, because firstly the similarities are mostly in the "literary props" used by Donaldson to tell the story of the character of Thomas Covenant, and secondly because Donaldson clearly builds on his own ideas.
The white gold ring, the Staff of Law, the Illearth Stone, and indeed the entire Land itself are only the backdrop to the story of Thomas Covenants inner struggles.The underlying idea for the story is good and original, but unfortunately any good idea has to be transformed into prose for a book to be written and read, and Donaldson is not quite up to the challenge.
I cannot say enough good things about this series.
From beginning to end the series does not disappoint.
I am looking forward to the conclusion of the series.A word of caution though.
This is a dark series, and it is extremely hard to read at times.
It will make you angry, I mean really angry.
A must read for any reader of sci-fi and fantasy.
In fact this work stands alone in the genre as something that should be read not only by students of fantasy, but students of higher literature as well.A true work of art!
If I could give this series of 6 books (I am including the following trilogy) a great many more stars - I would.
I have loved them ever since and have reread them nearly as many times as I have Jane Eyre (yes I know, that's a strange combination).
I love Thomas - I love that he is flawed and selfish and horrible at times, you can appreciate where all that comes from and it makes the story.
The land has more than enough heroes ready to sacrifice everything to balance Thomas' faults.
Actually just writing this review makes me want to read them all over again.
One of the best fantasy books of its kind. I think it is unfair to compare any books to Tolkien but this trilogy is pure genius. Stephen Donaldson is a master world builder and so brilliant in weaving believable characters into a world known as "The Land." The plot and dialogue is masterful and the hero is quite out of the ordinary. Tough and gritty in parts. I was gripped from start to finish. Pure magic.
There is a tendency to compare fantasy fiction using Tolkien as a benchmark. Often themes are repeated and the mix of characters similar. However some books mark new ground, and for me, this was one of those series that did so. As often is the case, I found the first triology was the best, even if the last one is not yet ended. If I was to have a sub category of 'books you cant put down and end up reading all night' this is one of them.
A wordy and disturbing mess - I only made it through around book five - but Donaldson's stories are powerfully told and deeply polyvalent. Maybe I'll finish the Chronicles one of these days...
Read this ages ago... loved it. Many people call it depressing and the character unappealing because he is so awful. I saw him as a struggling soul and was rooting for him.
Seven Wards of ancient Lore For Land’s protection, wall and door; And one High Lord to wield the Law To keep all uncorrupt Earth’s Power’s core. Seven Words for ill’s despite – Banes for evil’s dooming wight: And one pure Lord to hold the Staff To bar the Land from Foul’s betraying sight. Seven hells for failed faith, For Land’s betrayers, man and wraith: And one brave Lord to deal the doom To keep the blacking light from Beauty’s bloom. Since his debut in the late 70s, Stephen R. Donaldson – c

So this is a review of the Audio Book, which was unabridged by Scott Brick who also was part of the ensemble who did the Ender's game and Ender's Shadow books within the Ender Universe.
I was first exposed to Scott Brick after listening to the ENTIRE catalogue of the Ender's Game and Ender's Shadow series of books by Orson Scott Card.
Hope that helpsAnd yes...I said almost NOTHING about the actual Plot except it's about some guy named "Thomas Covenant".
Thomas Covenant had leprosy.
What leprosy does is kill the nerve endings so you lose all feeling.
It is another world so full of life that even his dead nerves are rejuvenated.
All this is more than Covenant can handle.
Hence his moniker, Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever.I first read these books as a teen in the early ‘80s.
By the end, you can almost believe the land is real, whether Covenant does or not.
You will feel Covenant’s pain and understand his stugle, and yet you will also want him to get his act together since he is The Land’s only hope.
Is the only book where as I was reading it I felt like the boy, Bastian in 'The Never ending Story'.
Have recommended this book to non-fantasy readers who have enjoyed it.Negatives1) As is often mentioned Donaldson can go on and on with internal monologue, sometimes to the detriment of the pacing of the book.2) Since this is really three books, the book looks like a tome.
Not something that is unfamiliar however to the seasoned epic fantasy reader.3) The main character 'Thomas Covenant' is like Marmite, as you have probably heard.
If you are a fan of epic fantasy you must read this essential book.
Probably not the best fantasy book out there, but certainly different in an interesting way.
I picked it up after reading somewhere that the main character is not the usual shiny hero type, but, as it turned out, a half-mad leper sometimes so arrogant you want to smack him.
I'm giving minus points to this book due to its quite uninteresting ending, but elsewise I may re-read it sometime later due to all the complex twists of the fantasy realm.I'm convinced that there's a strong streak of black humor underlying the story.
