https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54936.This_Tremendous_Lover
Nevertheless, I think most people will find it an enjoyable read, especially if they are mathematically minded and like things in a specific order.One of my favorite passages was from the chapter "The Will of God as the Food of Christ":"By doing the will of God then we are formed into Christ, we are 'digested' by Him, we are received into Him and transformed into Him, as the food is taken by the roots and transformed into the vine.
And God in His loving ardor pleads with us, for love, for the love of our whole heart, and we turn away our ear, and drown the sound of His voice in the intoxication of pleasure, or of work, or of all or anything else, save the one thing necessary.
A beautiful challengeInitially the book explains church teaching beginning with Genesis. As it continues, the author explores layers of surrendering oneself to Love, offering great wisdom and simple explanations on how to yield to this amazing God. I will re-read this often on my own spiritual journey to live through Him, with Him and in Him.
A powerful read - couldn't put book down. Certainly fills in more pieces in riddle of Catholic laity life for me. Like commentary on how HE permits our sins to occur (due to our free will) and sees how our sins can be turned around to good. Powerful insight that EVERY action we do has Christ there too. Understand better the concept of "In Christ". Validated Divine Providence concept whereby HE uses other persons to lead us to HIM and vice versa. Chapter on wives and careers could use some more discussions. Great chapter on our Blessed Mother as Redemptress.
I've read a bit about the spiritual life over the last 40+ years, and this book is in my top 5. It taught me so much about the Mystical Body of Christ and about how we are to love like He loves. It's a classic.
Boylan clearly had practical experience in helping people look past their hectic lives in a culture often at odds with God. His insightful, accessible book gives straight forward advice on how to proceed toward holiness.It is probably no surprise that Boylan always comes back to a few key points: knowing Jesus Christ in a personal relationship, turning away from pride, and embracing humility.
In continuing his discussion of married intimacies, Boylan says:Let us once and for all get rid too of the notion, so harmful to the spiritual life, so heretical in its origin, and so widespread today, that there is anything intrinsically wrong in pleasure as such.
It took me a while to get to to it, it felt almost like a text book at first.
This might be another book to have with me if I was stranded on a desert island (along with I Believe In Love)!
This book explained the love of God and our human suffering in a way that makes me understand humanity, faith, and love like never before.
This books calls us to holiness, which is nothing but a life infused with God's love and the love of God in everything.
I utterly and completely love this book.
Really excellent spiritual reading for the practicing lay Catholic. I really like how practically he breaks things down for you in terms of how to develop one's spiritual practices and what the essentials are, as well as his approach to dividing the chapters. I found some of the chapters about the Mystical Body of Christ a little over my head but I loved the chapters "Seeking Christ Through Humility and Obedience," "Seeking Christ in Prayer," "Seeking Christ by Reading," "Christ, Our Sacrifice and Our Supplement," etc. Really great book.
From Fr. Geddes. Love the chapters on Confession.
Definitely worth the read.
it was my first book on begining of spiritual life....written by abbot....he knows what he is doing.....huge list of recommended literature in the end...cleared my russian brain ....a little bit
Included in the "Spiritual Reading" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.
One of the best books about the love of Jesus. If I had to pick two books about Jesus, one of them would be this one. The other would be Life of Christ by Fulton Sheen. Highly recommended.
Just read it!
No matter what we do, unless we do it in the love of God, it profits us nothing. God wants our love, He will be satisfied with nothing else.
Catholic Classic - great meditation on the love of Christ for souls. I strongly recommend this book.
The BEST Book EVER!!!
