https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/264271.The_Philosophy_of_the_Enlightenment
لینک دانلودش را می گذارم برای دوستانی که علاقه دارندلینک دانلودریویو١.کتاب های فیزیک دبیرستان را به یاد دارید؟ همیشه وقتی راجع به یک پدیده صحبت می کردند (انعکاس نور، تخلیۀ الکتریکی، فشار هوا، سقوط اجسام) تنها به توصیف آن پدیده اکتفا نمی کردند، بلکه قانونی ریاضی را هم شرح می دادند که این پدیده بر آن مبتنی بود و بر اساس آن می شد پیش بینی کرد که این پدیده در شرایط مختلف به چه شکلی عمل می کند.
اما وقتی نیوتن تمام قد ظهور کرد، دید علمی به کلی زیر و رو شد: نیوتن نشان داد که می توان پدیده های کیفی طبیعت را با قوانین ریاضی با دقت پیش بینی کرد.
وقتی خواندن کتاب را شروع کردم میدانستم که کتاب سختی خواهد بود، کتابی که برای حرفهایها نوشته شده است و به درد من نخواهد خورد. در پایان کتاب، دید کوچکی نسبت قرن هجدهم، عصر روشنگری، یافتم.
وقتی خواندن کتاب را شروع کردم می‌دانستم که کتاب سختی خواهد بود، کتابی که برای حرفه‌ای‌ها نوشته شده است و به درد من نخواهد خورد. در پایان کتاب، دید کوچکی نسبت قرن هجدهم، عصر روشنگری، یافتم.
Cassirer argued that the Enlightenment needs to be understood in terms of depth, not breadth and unity of ideas.He also offers an important reminder that our contemporary use of the term "reason" is far more limited than what Enlightenment thinkers meant when they discussed the concept.
It's easy to see why this book is considered a classic today.
It was originally written in 1933 and most writers and lecturers of the Enlightenment have obviously read it because it's easy to spot this book's influence in their expositions.The author divides philosophical thought into each of its different categories such has, Science; Psychology & Epistemological; Law, State, and Society; History; Religion; and Aesthetics and then looks at how the 17th century thought about the problem from its rational perspective, then considers how the great thinkers of the 18th century would have included reason and experience to the problem and then summarizes what the greatest thinkers thought about the problem as an Idea and then formalized that into an Ideal.
This book was very habit forming.
This book was okay, it was very hard to read.
Essentially what Cassirer is doing is to recreate the enlightenment train of thought to better explain what these thinkers were attempting to do for humanity and for philosophy.
It is important to remember that the Enlightenment really wasn't an era of time but an activity in which people during the 17th century participated.
So Cassirer, to better explain what these gentlemen were creating, recreates this activity.It was for a class, the professor spent five weeks in this book..
we were all ready to murder him by the time we ended.
Cassirer's name came up so frequently in my studies, particularly in Cornel West's class on Hume and Kant, that I finally picked up his Philosophy of the Enlightenment to read on one of many weekend trips from New York to Chicago during the last semester at seminary.
As a general history of ideas, the book is clear enough, but the reader ought have a general sense of the history of philosophy and of major philosophers such as Hume, Liebnitz and Kant.
Having become an admirer of the Enlightenment period and its thinkers during an undergraduate humanities survey course, I picked up this book (probably on the advice of a mentor-professor) to learn more. Ideally, anyone tackling Cassirer's study should already be decently acquainted with the thinkers discussed (as another review here says), a careful and inquisitive novice, which is what I was, can get a good deal of benefit from it. As I read it some four decades ago, I won't attempt now to say anything in detail.
Discutido en  Imperio Pág.64
Tough read, but worth it. Cassirer really got at the heart of the enlightenment's ideas and the grand debate over the origins of knowledge.
Not a review....i would like to know if someone has a copy of this book who could help me with translation problems....anyone?
Ernst Cassirer's writing is amazing. I read the Religion section and other parts. Very good analysis.
near the beginning...
