https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/526869.Peyton_Place
... more like melrose place. i couldn't put it down. part of me wished i was reading it in 1951, hiding the copy in a clothes hamper next to a bottle of vodka.
I was waffling at 4.5 stars and given this plus the author's writing I decided to rate it 5 on GR rather than down to 4 (since GR doesn't offer 1/2 stars).I felt like a 'nosy neighbor' (of Peyton Place) reading this book.
We observe the lives of a cast of characters of a small New England town (Peyton Place) There are MANY very serious issues that are dealt with in this book - rape, unwed pregnancies, yet it is never written in a sordid fashion.
Well, this is how one writes engrossing earth-shattering unputdownable trash.
I was expecting something lurid a la Jacqueline Susann, but this is actually more like a New England-y version of To Kill a Mockingbird -- class conflict, racism, and closely-kept secrets in a small town.
I don't care if sequels are rarely as good as originals, I'm going back!One additional point I thought was worth mentioning -- it's a shame that this book has a reputation as being Valley of the Dolls-esque, because it's not lurid or sexual in the same way.
Without a question, my favorite read of all-time.
I've re-read it every Fall since my first time in 1986.Forget about the naysayers who write it off as mere soap, Metalious' earthy descriptions of the seasons alone are worth it.
Anyone from a small town will be able to relate, but this is a MUST for anyone from a New England smalltown.
We summered next door to the small town upon which this novel was based, and this one hits the nail right on the head.
Enjoy!And if you do like it, I highly suggest Metalious' other works as well.
One of the many things I remember from my childhood home is my mothers bookshelf which included the usual Readers Digest Omnibus books, a copy of Teach Yourself Italian, Norah Lofts, a book about Shackletons Adventures in Antarctica, Lady Chatterleys Lover and Peyton PLace.
The stories of these women cover subjects, which at the time were pushed under the carpet, and in general ignored as either not taking place at all or only in the very rarest of circumstances, whereas in reality these things (incest, abortion, domestic violence) were situations faced by many women.
I read this book on a bit of a lark.
This is the only book my mother ever forbid me to read.
Over the years I thought about reading it several times, but never followed through.
It took me over 30 years to finally sit down and read it.
It is a remarkable and powerful book.
Reading it, it was easy to believe that Metalious was a true feminist who purposefully depicted the social anatomy of a community to expose the quiet acceptance of hideous things like child abuse, incest, and rape.
I'm awfully glad I finally sat down to read this book.
At times reminiscent of TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD or the sprawling New England cast of IT, PEYTON PLACE starts out strong, but eventually sags under the weight of too many characters and too many plotlines.
You know you're in trouble if more ink is spent on Allison having sex with her married boyfriend, a guy who isn't even introduced until the last two chapters, than on Selena Cross's own murder trial.
I kept thinking, "Please take me back to Selena's POV!" but alas, 'twas not to be: in fact, the story ends with Allison realizing what a swell guy Mike really is.
Yes, even by today's standards this book is quite the scandalous read.
Peyton Place seems like a nice, quiet little town, until you peer behind the curtains, and then the ugly underbelly is revealed.
The book was highly addictive, told in a gossipy style that was like reading a tabloid or listening to a nosy neighbor dish the dirt.
It follows a handful of Peyton Place residents over ten years, but then it just .
If she didn't keep telling the reader the year, you would think it was the 1950's, when the book was written.
I read this many years ago --Saw the movie --Watched the TV series --I guess you can say I was hooked even as a young woman --It was the Fifty Shades of Gray in 'its' day ---(even people who closed their eyes to 'such trash' were engaged in conversations about Peyton Place)I'm now about to begin the novel "Unbuttoning America" by Ardis Cameron. A more academic book about the history and culture influence of 'Peyton Place'. Sound be interesting!
I agree with the author when she said "to talk about adults without talking about their sex drives is like talking about a window without glass."I look back at what I was taught in Literature classes, that things like symbolism are what make a novel great, and all that just seems like crap to me now.
I don't mean to knock symbolism, but it's realistic and believable three-dimensional characters and a good plot that make a novel great.
When none of the adult characters in a book have sex drives, then the book is at a hefty disadvantage at the start because it's set in never-never land.
I got a beaten up original copy from Goodwill for 10 cents, and have probably reread it 20 times in the past few years. This book must have been truly revolutionary when it was first published. Metalious manages to flesh out the town's entire population. The omniscient point of view gives a very realistic depiction of a town on the surface, and all the complicated, corrupt, hidden undercurrents. If you've ever read Salem's Lot, Stephen King wrote it as a supernatural version of Peyton Place.
PEYTON PLACE is full of multi-faceted characters -- none of them all good, none of them all bad, but all of them memorable.
With enviable skill and obvious love, Grace Metalious paints a vivid picture of a small New England town and the people who live, die and love there.
In some ways, it seems that all modern writers are children of Peyton Place, myself included!
I don't know if Grace Metalious realized what an impact her book would have -- either on society or on her fellow writers -- but it's a really remarkable achievement.
Like many of you I was introduced to PEYTON PLACE... http://sleaze-factor.blogspot.ca/2016...
Indian summer is like a woman.
What a great, trashy book!
As Stefon would say, "Summer's hottest read is Peyton Place.
This book has everything: rape, murder, abortion, blue balls, virgins, tramps, suicide, drunk driving, dismemberment, cats on rope leashes, and that thing where you're so drunk that you put an axe in your foot." This was the perfect late-summer read, and as always, I hope to find more mid-20th century popular fiction that is as entertaining as this.
Read for the Litsy readalong. I can see why my mom and grandma were scandalized! 😱
I like this book very much.
Grace Metalious was way ahead of her time when she wrote Peyton Place.
I can see why society at that time was not ready for this book.
Peyton Place revealed too much.
All of the evils of society normally swept under the rug are confronted in this important book.
I think this book has been mislabeled and not seen for the fine piece of work it really is.
I also liked the movie made from the book, actually was suprised at the quality of it.
Sadly, I didn't read Peyton Place for years because of its link with the tv soap opera.
Wow-I know I read this many years ago & parts of it felt like I had just read it last week & other p
I read this book the first time at about 16 and was blown away. Now rereading it as an adult I find many problems with it. I'm sure very few will agree, but while it was interesting I couldn't find much sympathy for most of the characters. And (probably related to that) was rather emotionally untouched by this book. (For contrast I cried at the movie Up- within the first 5 minutes.) I felt as though ants were being smashed. It was a parade of the grotesque. Tragedy after tragedy with surprisingly little affect on me.
Obviously, it had some flaws, like flow and time jumps and too many one time characters.However, the story was fabulous, and the descriptions of the town, it's citizens, and the castle were all amazing.The ending seemed rushed, and there were a few things I wish that she would've went back to, but all in all, a book worthy of its place in history and the legacy it has left behind.
I came very close to giving this book 5 stars like so many others but vacillated violently as some things were so offensive. I think Grace Metalious was very brave to write this book. I can't believe the courage that she had and especially at that time. I may be thinking about this book for a long time .
Quiero decir que debe de ser uno de los primeros libros que explota el ahora tópico esquema de pueblo aparentemente idílico de familias modélicas de puertas afuera pero que esconden secretos más o menos escabrosos de puertas adentro.
Me han gustado menos los amoríos y otros tópicos culebronescos, que son demasiado previsibles y gastados.
En este sentido, a Metalious le preocupa más la acción (que pasen cosas, muchas cosas, y que sean muy fuertes, y no importa si parecen forzadas) que no construir unos personajes con verdadera entidad, y es una pena, porque esta novela podría haber sido muy grande, pero sólo se queda en correcta.
Va e viene come e quando le pare e nessuno sa se arriverà davvero né per quanto si tratterrà.Grace Metalious non è certo la prima a scrivere dell'ipocrisia e della doppiezza di quella società, ma è una donna ed è la prima donna normale a farlo, e non una signora di New York educata in qualche buona università.
Alla base del successo di questo romanzo ci fu sicuramente una buona dose di curiosità morbosa e un'incredibile operazione pubblicitaria, ma come sintetizzò egregiamente la Metalious: "Se sono una scrittrice da schifo, allora una montagna di gente ha un gusto da schifo".
Acide, corrosif, avant-gardiste et surtout bien éloigné de l'image de soap sucré qu'on lui a associée.
I have read modern 'chick lit' books (and loved them) written in this style and none of them hold a candle to this book.When I say this book had it all -I really mean it.
However because of when this was written and the time period it was set in, be aware you are going to hear the "N" word.
Only several times---but you will hear it and I know that many people don't take historical accuracy into consideration and get very upset at this.This was a wonderful look into the back door of a small New England town ( it could have been set anywhere actually) and is written to entertain as well as teach.

A autora sabia o que queria dizer sobre os boatos, a vergonha e as relações de uma cidade pequena e foi, com alguma ousadia, que o fez."Os boatos são como as amigas.
Apesar de Selena Cross, a rapariga das barracas, assumir um papel de destaque, não posso deixar de dizer que a minha preferida é a aspirante a escritora, a Allison (mesmo tendo em conta a sua personalidade complicada e valores ainda mais difíceis de compreender)."Filhos de uma cadela.
Mulheres e homens."Tendo em conta que li este livro 59 anos depois da sua primeira publicação, tenho de louvar os temas abordados que, provavelmente, escandalizaram os leitores em 1955.
Peyton Place is a depiction of life in a little town in New England more than seventy years back in time and however it doesn't seem so far away when it comes to judging, stereotyping and criticizing (something we are still very good at) The story centers around Allison McKenzie, a girl coming of age and facing all of the challenges of growing up in a small town without a father but describes more or less in depth the neighbours of the town, both teenagers and adults who seem to struggle with the perceived morality forced upon them.Constance McKenzie (Allison's mother), who tries to make up for a past indiscretion by adopting a chaste, prudish attitude and who can't help but be attracted to the new teacher Michael Rossi.Allison, who'd like to be more like "fast girl" Betty Anderson and who falls sincerely in love with mixed-up Norman Page (Russ Tamblyn).
"Peyton Place" is actually a good book, no a really good book.
But that was not the case after all.The truth of the matter is that the issues in this book are still quite relevant today, whether we want to acknowledge it or not.
Well "Peyton Place" tackles that issue to and can shed an important light to the issue.
Yes, I think Grace Metalious was trying to make a statement by incorporating so many taboo issues of the day into this story but I feel that she did it in a way that works and makes sense.
It was similar in some ways to books like; The Heart is a Lonely Hunter and To Kill a Mockingbird, especially in the aspect of telling a story from a small town perspective.
But it was also very different, as it focussed on the secrets that guide people's lives in small towns.
I liked so many of the characters, but each had their flaws and their postivie aspects.
I liked Constance McKenzie; she was a strong independent woman and she helped Selena and her mother, providing work to them.
There were characters who you can't like, as in any community, close-minded, snappish, maybe even evil people.
