https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/984274.The_Bounty_Hunters
Description: The old Apache renegade Soldado Viejo is hiding out in Mexico, and the Arizona Department Adjutant has selected two men to hunt him down. One -- Dave Flynn -- knows war, the land, and the nature of his prey. The other is a kid lieutenant named Bowers. But there's a different kind of war happening in Soyopa. And if Flynn and his young associate choose the wrong allies -- and the wrong enemy -- they won't be getting out alive.Listening and gardening! This audio has sound effects - twanging arrows, clipperty-clopping horses, and the odd strain of Spanish guitar!
The Bounty Hunters is a good, solid western novel. If you love Zane Grey or Louis L'Amour give Dutch a try. Leonard got his start in the 1950's writing western novels and short stories.I have read many of Elmore "Dutch" Leonard's crime novels, so I gave his westerns a shot and I saw vast similarities. His crime novels are westerns that take place in the 1930's to the 2000's. While he dresses his characters in the fashions of the time and they drive cars instead of cattle it is still a wild ride with lots of gun play.
Leonard has done it again. Very good western with a gritty, realistic edge. The only downside was the prose was a bit too spare even for me at times. Great characters & story, though. As usual, there were some pretty jarring moments.
A classic first novel from the master.
But once in Mexico, the pair find themselves in the middle of an unfolding crisis-- corrupt rurales, under the command of Duro, have subjagated a small village where Flynn has old friends, and Duro is making money off so-called Apache scalps brought in by a blood-thirsty band of bounty hunters.
Flynn and Bowers must set things right before they can carry out their own mission.This is Elmore Leonard's first novel, but it's not the work of an amateur by any means.
It's a fine piece of work, although not really replete with a lot of the things we would come to think of later as Leonard hallmarks.
Thus, it comes as some shock that his first novel, The Bounty Hunters, is such a drag to read.
Before he wrote crime, Leonard honed his chops as a writer of Westerns and The Bounty Hunters is his not only his first Western but his very first book.
Leonard's first book is just sort a rote adventure story with uninspiring dialogue and a plot that never gets the injection of adrenaline a book like this really needs.
Leonard can write dialogue, part of the time, and he creates a number of enjoyable enough characters and then pits them against each other, but it never really amounts to much.
I've read very little Elmore Leonard.
Leonard writes characters as much as he writes novels, and his dialogue is spot on.
But The Bounty Hunters read like Leonard, who writes these characters so well, was drawing up some character profiles, throwing them together and hoping something would develop.
It came to the point that confusion was the order of the day, and as much as wanted to continue, I just couldn't.
Doesn't mean I won't read Leonard again.
I still feel that hankerin' for a good western.Not recommended, but it was interesting to see such fantastic dialogue from Leonard from the very start.
The Bounty Hunters was Elmore Leonard’s first novel.
The love of character is evident from this first novel.The Bounty Hunters follows Dave Flynn, former cavalry officer turned scout as he leads a young lieutenant into Mexico on the trail of an Apache war chief.
Along the way they encounter American scalp hunters who work for the local Mexican commander.
A young woman, the daughter of a friend, is taken by the scalp hunters and Flynn goes after them.All the classic western themes are here.
Bounty Hunters delivers all that could be expected from a western written by Elmore Leonard.
This was Elmore Leonard’s first published novel, written in his late twenties. In it, already fully developed, is the trademark edge that he brings to his fiction. With its opening scene in a barbershop in Contention, Arizona, we get just that—an exchange of contentious dialogue that’s both bristling and funny. It’s the same mastery of verbal dispute between people at sharp odds with each other that makes “Justified” so much fun today. . .Read my review at my blog.
Not Leonard's bestAfter the splendid characterizing and action of "Valdez is Coming" and a couple of Leonard's other western, I was rather surprised to find this novel rather rambling with some cardboard characters and very little suspense. The most interesting character is probably Lieutenant Duro, but he is one of the villains and really plays a negligible part in the story. Very much a disappointing read.
Very good - hard to believe that the writing career that brought us such memorable characters as Raylan Givens, Chili Palmer, and Karen Cisco has such humble beginnings. If you appreciate the works of Elmore Leonard, then read the book - it is the work of a writer who was learning and honing his craft, but it's also more.
“The Bounty Hunters” features a strong dramatic tale set in the old West in rural Arizona as well as Mexico.Elmore Leonard offers the reader a tense tale of good, evil, and those who live in the dangerous grey area in between.
Duro has the law on his side, even though he himself has given up on life, and this offers little sympathy for the life of others.Many of Elmore Leonard’s characters in the novel are run-down veterans with a cynical edge, which makes Bowers stand out even more.
It is set in the 1870’s around the Arizona/Mexico border region, at the time when the bad ass, torture happy Apaches were fighting a doomed battle to keep their culture and keep the white folks out.
There is of course a beautiful Mexican girl who the good guy scout falls for, and a classic Elmore Leonard line is one evening when she brings him supper, he says to her, “If it was darker, I might kiss you.” She replies, “If you were darker, I might let you.”
One of Elmore Leonard's early efforts, a western that takes place largely in Mexico some years after the American Civil War. A young cavalry lieutenant and a contract tracker/guide are sent to Mexico from SE Arizona to bring back the elderly head of an Apache tribe that has been raiding on both sides of the border.
On the way, the pair encounter crooked bounty hunters (collecting from the Mexican government for "Apache" scalps) and the basically inept and often corrupt Rurales, Mexican troops sent to control rural villages in northern Mexico.
David Flynn the main character of the book is a constant force.
Methodical, calm, and inspiring others he is the character in the book which others draw courage and maturity from.
The book isn't as much as story of Dave Flynn as it is how he affects others around him.I wasn't aware that this was Leonard's first published book, and it's the first of his westerns that I've read.
I enjoyed it, although it doesn't seem as concrete as some of his other books.
Things happen and flow into the story - it's actually quite beautiful the way the story just picks up and wraps the characters into it.
Leonard's first novel. It didn't stand out to me as exceptional but it was certainly well-written. Some of his style traits are apparent early on, especially his economical use of dialogue and "leaving out the parts people tend to skip." I don't read a lot of classic westerns such as this, so I can't compare it to other authors like Louis L-Amour and Zane Gray, but if you enjoy that genre, Leonard is certainly worth reading since he wrote numerous westerns before starting to branch out into his more modern works like "Get Shorty" and "Be Cool."
Excellent Western. Great characters without the BS. I've always liked Elmore Leonard's books and I've read quite a few, but all crime mysteries. This was my first Western. I liked the story, the matter of fact ness of the basically terrible things people did to each other. What I really liked were the characters. Totally straightforward without the banal development so many authors employ. A great book.
I've read at least a dozen of Leonard's crime novels but this was my first Western. It was great. The Bounty Hunters had the same fast plot and storytelling I always enjoy from his later work. Very entertaining. The only thing that detracted slightly was the omniscient narrator sometimes confused me. It wasn't always easy to tell whose head I was inside. A small detail. Overall a lot of fun. I'm interested to check out some of his other Western material now.
Elmore Leonard's first novel. I hadn't even known he wrote any Westerns. Its a dandy. Very well written for a first novel, with some unexpected insight and feel, for a novel written in the early fifties. I've recently decided to read Mr Leonard's catalogue in order, and this was a fine start. A good decision, I'm thinking.
Not this edition, but a Bantam Book I picked up at John King Books in Detroit, and read in Grand Marais on our annual trip to the UP.Leonard always delivers more than he promises, if you ask me, and I love his Westerns as much as I love his Detroit stories.
The man's first novel is a fantastic cat-and-mouse Western that packs consistent twists around each corner. While the characters are a bit flat, it's forgivable for a debut. I'll be reading more Leonard for sure.
another enjoyable Leonard Western. well drawn characters who interact and cause enough friction to make for an exciting conclusion.
A friend recommended this as a good entree into Westerns. I'm hooked. Good plot, interesting characters, excellent writing by a master f the genre, who also wrote pretty good detective stories
Yes I love Elmore Leonard and everything he writes and this is no exception, it's just great, goddammit, why did he have to die
A shoot-em-up, Elmore Leonard beach read, the dialog is sparkling and action fast-paced. Not politically correct but better than many of the time.
Dave Flynn made for a great protagonist and the story moves along nicely.
But the best part of this book is the fact that, beyond Flynn being the clear good guy and Frank Rellis being the bad guy, the rest of the characters are complex and never fall too far to one side or the other.
What's more, the story thrives on the grey area its characters live in, never letting the reader know beforehand how things will play out for any one of them.
fine westernVerified Purchase(What's this?)This review is from: The Bounty Hunters (Kindle Edition)Cavalry, scouts, Indians, Federales, outlaws, murder, mayhem & a damsel in distress, what more could you want in one book? I like Leonard's westerns & liked this one almost as much as HOMBRE & VALDEZ IS COMING.
A rather painful book to read as it didn't hold my interest. I'm not sure if it's Elmore Leonard's writing style or the story. I'll have to try another Leonard book.
He starts off the book in a barber shop not taking any guff from a noisy drunk named Frank Rellis who spends the rest of the book determined to murder Flynn for beating his lights out.Flynn has just taken on a job for the US Army.
When Flynn meets up with him, though, he doesn't have any good news at all: Flynn and Bowers have found Hilario's entire family, his brother, sister-in-law, their children and all, slaughtered and scalped with their burned out wagons on the trail back to Soyopa.
Only Hilario's own daughter, Nita, is missing, and Flynn doesn't think it was Apaches who took her, or who did the killing.Back to the question of what made it good.
Well paced debut from Mr. Leonard. Should be a movie.
