https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/231356.A_Handbook_to_Literature
One to be refered to over and over. It includes more entries than Abrams' A Glossary of Terms, but Abrams' book has longer, and in some ways better, coverage of each entry. I usually go to this volume first, then follow up with Abrams when I want to know more.
Traditional guide through literary & rhetorical terminology. Basically indispensible for literary students. Does not contain much in the way of theory or criticism--that's for other items, such as the Columbia Dictionary of Modern Literary & Cultural Criticism.
There is something calming about dipping into this. Randomly opening it to a page, reading an entry, and falling down the rabbit hole of related terms. It's a wonderful thing.
This formed the central core of my liberal arts/educated by the Jesuit educated education.get that?This book was my mainstay as a student and English literature major. I have four different editions starting with my father's from his student days in the early 60's at the University of Scranton.
A MUST-HAVE for any English student, teacher, or professor.
very good book...
It is a handy book that can be read for pleasure. However, the publisher really doesn't need to update it every 3 years to force poor students to buy the new editions. In this 10th edition the editor admitted there was little substantial he could add. In fact, he mentioned his children suggested three new entries - "manga", "coffee table book" and "jumping the shark"- strangely, "jumping the shark" was not even actually added as the other two...Greedy publishers :-(, lousy work. Luck that I have learned not to buy the newest editions.
While this book is not the sort of book you read cover to cover, for someone who had any kind of formal literary education, it's a godsend.It's most useful to me reading books about books - Harold Bloom comes to mind - when I come upon a term I don't entirely understand. I love it. It's given a better understanding of a lot of my favorite books and authors.
A must-have for literary folks. This is a Very useful tool for literary terms etc., deep and comprehensive entries. I studied with him at UNC Chapel Hill. He literally wrote the book on it with William Harmon, awesome poet also at UNC.
I put this on my Academic Life shelf, but this is such an essential read for anyone who loves literature. I'm so geeky that I used to sit down and read the articles in the Holman Handbook for the sheer joy of reading it. I love this book.
GREATEST BOOK EVER.
cool one
Indispensable!
This was one of the books I was smart enough to keep from college. It's a great resource for literary terminology and definitions.
A helpful tool for the aspiring autodidact or bibliophile.
camin
Puzzled by parataxis? Stymied by the sublime? Unsure of your unreliable narrator? Look no further than this exhaustive literary resource.
Somewhat misinformative, sometimes due to the wording.
a very special book
A nice introduction to literature.
only snipets, but provided good jumping-off point and reminders for writing or research
https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...
Handy dictionary of literary movements and terms. Useful if you feel like toting it around.
