https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/315511.The_Young_Lions
Now Irwin Shaw is a great writer, in fact I remember reading two of his short stories in college "The Eighty-Yard Run" and "The Girls in Their Summer Dresses," and they were excellent.
Irwin Shaw had everything he needed to write the Great American Novel.
Dean Martin as Michael Whiteacre in the movie version.When Michael Whiteacre comes before the draft board, consisting of pinched, gray faced old men it reminded me of a guy I used to work for named Norm.
These are Christian Diestl, a sergeant in the German army, a loyal but scarcely fanatical Nazi; Michael Whitacre, a stage manager for Broadway productions and, according to Salter, "in many respects, Shaw's representative in the novel"; and Noah Ackerman, a young Jewish American whose life has been "wandering and disordered" but who has begun to put things together after moving to New York.… It begins in prewar America and Germany, marches resolutely through many of the war's most dramatic moments, and ends with the Allies on the brink of victory, the ironic aspects of which Shaw does not shy away from making clear.
Irwin cuts a world war down into a manageable size by focusing on the parts that he witnessed himself (American boot camp, North Africa, England, Italy, France) and telling the story through the eyes of only three major characters - the three young lions of the title.
Pay for the thirty-three year holiday that ended this morning when the sergeant said, "You. Pick up that butt." Michael is probably the closest Irwin comes to including autobiographical elements in the novel, although it is probably incorrect to try to draw to many parallels between the author and his creation.
This is a review that was written on another site in 2011:I had always believed that there were three great American World War II novels that shared the common characteristics of being written by veterans of that conflict and by being published within five years of the war's conclusion.They are: The Naked and the Dead (1948) by Norman Mailer; The Caine Mutiny(1951) by Herman Wouk; and From Here to Eternity(1951) by James Jones.
It is better than I remembered.With one exception, these novels are enriched by the fact that they are based upon the writers’ personal experiences during the war.
Irwin Shaw's first novel although he was already an experienced writer before The Young Lions was published in 1948.
Shaw served with the U.S. Army during World War II.
Only this is a book written just a couple of years after the war had ended - long before the gauzy sentimentality that has settled on that time period came about.
One has to wonder if this was how Shaw saw women in general or if it was a reflection of how the men in uniform felt about women during World War II.
I've only got a couple things to say about this much-reviewed classic WWII novel: that a more polished writing and some editorial cuts would've avoided the loss of one star, and that a better ending the loss of another.
I never watched the film, nor had I read any reviews past some comments recommending it and blurbs, so when I found myself hooked and extremely interested while reading the first chapter to decide whether to borrow the book or not, it was entirely the novel's merit.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
La guerra los lleva por diferentes caminos, que en algunos momentos convergen, estos caminos pones a prueba todas sus capacidades y los hará ver la realidad de nuevas maneras.Algo que me gustó mucho es que los personajes tienen muchos matices, no es tan sencillo encasillarlos dentro de un carácter, y esto es muy bueno, les da realidad, uno piensa que de verdad fueron personas enfrentando la situación que tenían frente a ellos.Se lee muy fácil, en realidad es como ver una película, imágenes de batallas, heridos (y en esto no es tan impresionante, hablando de sangre) aunque no , y algunas reflexiones sobre el presente y el futuro.
Aunque el libro es bastante largo, corre rápido por la sencillez con la que está escrito, lo recomiendo bastante.
Is this A book about World War 2 or is it THE book about World War 2?
3 soldiers, two Americans and one German from the early days of the war to the end.
It is the story of three soldiers and scores of other participants in this war; the human and inhumane face of the war.
The book was written in 1948, before the reviews, reflections and revisions could alter the impressions of the war on its participants.
I think it is an "important" book, but more relevant than that, it is a very, very good book.
The book has been in the house for a long time and I often gave thoughts to reading it.Some six months ago, a time when there was nothing new and significant, I thought this could be the time.
I did come back-often as I was intrigued with the characters and their differences and of course the war.i have read the other great ww2 books and wanted to finish this.
Shaw was a great writer and used the language beautifully.
There are so many moments in each of he characters lives that are significant and beautiful.
This is a novel well worth reading.
4,5 звезди. Отначало й бях сложила 4, но всъщност, като се замислих, по-коректната й оценка е 5. Затова я коригирам. Книгата е страхотна и наистина си заслужава!
This was actually the third time I picked up the book, and I intended to read it the entire way through.His tale of three men amidst WWII - Noah, Michael, and Christian - was compelling and refreshing.
With this book, you really get into the heads of the three soldiers, and get to see an unromanticized outlook on what in many books is romanticized to the point of nausea.That being said, Shaw's style of writing is extremely verbose, and the prose not the least bit beautiful.
The book, as stated, is lengthy, but is probably one of the most delightful books I have read taking place during WWII in quite some time.
Human nature at its best. An epic tale, an epic emotional journey for the characters and especially for us the readers! Using WWII as a backdrop, Shaw presents us with conflicting emotions, human flaws and virtues, and above all he exposes the reality of human behaviour. I simply loved this book. Don't read it... LIVE IT!
Excellent movie with great actors such as Marlon Brando, a German officers who dislikes the war, Montgomery Clift, the Jewish-American soldier who has to deal with the antisemitism and Dean Martin, who from playboy becomes a hero.
Обожавам книги, които ме карат да съпреживявам! Брилянтен Ъруин Шоу! 800 страници с Мъка, жестока мъка: душевни бездни, телесни рани, разбити животи, изгубени мечти. Не очаквах, че ще ме завладее до такава степен, но явно е излял сърцето и душата си,, имайки предвид неговото родословие. Толкова пронизваща сетивата книга не бях чела от доста време!
Трудно ми е да опиша колко адски противни са ми и тримата герои. И мадамите им. Толкова отблъскващи по толкова много начини, че аз това няма да го дочета. Две звезди, защото знам, че авторът по принцип не е толкова лош. И идеята е хубава като цяло. Страшно много харесвам "Богат, беден"... Явно, че предпочитам друг вид "американска класика", ако можем да числим Шоу към този тип писатели.
The kind of book you are scared to have end, surely one of the characters you've come to know so well will die, and die horribly in this massive moving novel of WWII. Along with Matterhorn and The Thin Red Line, one of the best fictional depictions of the experience of the common soldier.
One of a handful of great WWII novels, "The Young Lions" follows the lives of two U.S. Army GI's and a German Sergeant as they battle their way across Europe through the final years of the war. Written with great insight and feeling, Irwin Shaw paints a grim and brutal picture of the realities of battle and the huge emotional and physical toll it takes on young men. This is probably the best novel I've read about the war in Europe and a must read for anyone looking back at that time in history.
A war story which was good read. Usually I do not read war stories very often but I love books written by this author so I read it years ago
Irwin Shaw was in WWII and inspired to write this story from his experiences and observations (at least I've been led to believe that).Written from the view of 3 main characters (German, American, Jewish-American), readers are taken through the war from their vantage points.
One is led to believe this is what war does to men with good intentions.
The Jewish character endures racism from fellow soldiers and the Broadway singer searches to define himself in a world he finds has no need for him in war.I saw the movie and loved it!
The book tended to be a bit slow, and I was more engaged by the German character than the other two.
С напредването на военните действия Шоу постепенно разкрива вътрешния им свят, копнежите и мечтите им, като всеки от героите успява да добави нова черта в характера си до края на творбата.
Факт е, че с богатия си стил, изключително умение и прецизност Шоу несъмнено е успял да създаде пълнокръвни герои, които дишат от всеки ред, живеят в сърцето ти, карат те да им съчувстваш или да ги низвергваш от самото начало до последния ред.
И като заговорих за финала, той се оказа брилянтен, неочакван, от онези, които те стискат за гърлото и помниш дълго, много дълго време…Цялото ревю - тук: http://azcheta.com/mladite-lavove-irw...
It isn't in my personal collection anymore and I regret it.It was worth keeping,an epic story of men at war.
With Montgomery Clift and Marlon Brando in lead roles, how could I not be a fan of it?This, however, is the first chance I had to read Shaw's novel and I can say as good as the movie is, the book is so much better.
It concludes with the obligatory happy ending.Irwin Shaw, however, wrote a hard-nose story about three men at war, two Americans and a German, and how it changes them, not necessarily for the better.In the movie, the German, Christian Diestl, grows disillusioned with the war and the Nazi cause; in the book, he becomes the consummate killer.
Its a great big thumping read of the book.
Blurbs like "this book crackles with intelligence" as you read the authors 15th book in a paint by the numbers detective story with amusing side kick or the biggest red flag of all "lyric beauty" meaning you are about to be bored beyond endurance.This time however the excerpt quoted in the back captured the book to perfection.
There is that strong dose of hokiness, wrapping itself in a bygone perhaps more vital and heroic era and finally it's just like the book pure entertainment.The book follows two Americans and an Austrian from before WWII through the conflict.
The book starts in 1938 and ends in 1945.
It started out slowly and I wasn't sure I really wanted to finish the almost 700 pages but then...
Lots of the hype and stereotypes of the '40's were brought down: the soldiers were not all patriots who wanted to fight for justice and liberty, there was racism in the US against Jews, women were hardly virgins and marriages were not sacred.
I loved this book and will now see the movie but I doubt it will do the book justice - even if it does feature Marlon Brando.
The main story of the book is about a young Nazi officer(Christian), a American film producer(Michael) and a very shy and innocent Jewish boy(Noah) and their true and terrible experiences in battle.
My favorite part of the book was the last chapter where Michael, Noah, and Christian all meet near a German forest near the time when Germany was about to lose the war.
It was my favorite part because I never knew that Christian from the battlefields of North Africa and Noah and Michael from D-Day would end up all together.

A powerful work of fiction This book is a human, realistic, poetic, tragic and moving portrait of WW2. I'd never heard of Irwin Shaw prior to reading Young Lions and I was floored. I will go on record that this was a terribly shameful transcription into digital format. Not sure if the translator went to grade school but the punctuation errors were jarring. I reported about fifty so hopefully they get corrected. Still an amazing read.
I can't stand this book. Melodramatic nonsense. I read it at Bard as part of a very good class called Forty Years of American Fiction. I remember the professor saying that she was looking for a good World War II novel, but that she couldn't find one. We read this before the class started. Now that I've read Catch-22, I wonder what she was thinking when she assigned this book. It is bad.
Zafundowałem sobie to jako "lekturę wakacyjną" i trochę żałowałem. Ta cegła ma ponad 700 stron, a tematyka do lekkich nie należy, jednak trzeba przyznać, że to całkiem niezła literatura, pokazująca różne motywacje i historie walczących bez natrętnej martyrologii i wielkich słów. Nieco ociężale i wolno snująca się fabuła dąży do ciekawego (być może symbolicznego) finału.
