https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27362503-it-ends-with-us
::: SPOILER-FREE REVIEW :::   Fifteen seconds. That’s all it takes to completely change everything about a person. Fifteen seconds that we’ll never get back.  HOLY WOW! It Ends With Us is one of the most powerful books of 2016 and one of the most raw, honest, inspiring, and profoundly beautiful stories I've ever read. It wasn’t anything like what I expected, but it delivered so much more than I ever hoped for. This is the kind of book that I want to give to every woman and just be like… READ TH
To be honest, I'm the usually the kind of reader who likes to know every little thing about what to expect in advance, but I've really learned to trust Colleen's writing and her storytelling so even I went into this book without knowing anything at all...
The title is truly perfect.In order to write this review, I went back over the book a second time and one thing I noticed strongly was how many intricate layers there were to the story that I couldn't possibly have known about in my first read.
Preventing your heart from forgiving someone you love is actually a hell of a lot harder than simply forgiving them. 4 1/2 stars. Holy crap, what a book. This is unlike anything Hoover has written before. I have so many emotions right now that it's hard to know where to start, but I think everyone should read this book. That's right: everyone. I could easily give everything away. I could, but I won't. If you go looking for lots of reviews, it won't be hard to work out what It Ends with Us is ab
I have so many emotions right now that it's hard to know where to start, but I think everyone should read this book.
I think you should go into this book knowing as little as possible.
My heart hurt while reading it and I almost cried several times.As well as all this emotion and sadness that I'm being coy about, Hoover also brings out some of her very best writing.
Shit, just writing this review and remembering the story is an emotional experience.And then there's the absolutely fantastic female friendship.
This book was really heavy. If you tear out most of the pages, it's not as heavy. But when you do that, the book just doesn't make any sense.
5 + brave and bold stars!!! Want the naked truth about It Ends with Us? Reading this book will change your life. It’s so different from any of Colleen Hoover’s other books. You can tell it’s heavier, more personal, just more. This book is deep. It’s profound. It’s a book that needs to be read. I'll repeat: THIS IS A BOOK THAT NEEDS TO BE READ! This story is moving. It will make you think about things that are uncomfortable to think about. It will lift your heart, devastate you at times, make you
It’s a book that needs to be read.
Sometimes, I read a book and it’s so beautiful, influential and emotional I will cry just thinking about the characters and their story.
It’s hard to explain the story completely spoiler free, but this isn’t a ‘sad’ book.
It’s a strength book.
His story gutted me at times, but he is also a character with a lot of strength and so much beauty.
Ryle’s sister and Lily’s best friend Alyssa was one of my favorite characters in this book.
And it’s tied with Hopeless as my own personal favorite book by her.
As Lily's and Ryle's relationship pushes forward she finds herself looking back at those entries and thoughts of her first love Atlas resurface.
When Atlas reappears in the story it truly threatens everything Lily and Ryle have.
This book was solid from page one and was steady throughout, but around the 80% mark is where things really took a turn (in the best way possible).
Finding out how important this book was for her to write will hit you hard, but I hope she also knows how important it is as a reader to read.
Twenty minutes to take out the uterus that carried my three beautiful babies for a total of twenty eight months.
Twenty minutes to change my life.
In all honesty, for a couple of minutes I didn't just feel like a chapter was ending, more like an entire flipping book.
I wanted one more baby when there are women out there that can't have any at all.So why am I telling you this?
and when i finally finished the book and put it down, it wasn't mauve diamonds that I saw ...
This is the most moving book that I've read in a LONG time.
It's been a couple of days since I finished 'It Ends With Us' and I'm still thinking about Lily's story.
Yet, it was also inspiring.Lily grows up in an abusive household.
She grows into a strong and independent woman, leaving behind the horrors of her childhood...Or so she thinks.Despite everything she's promised herself, Lily finds herself in an abusive relationship.
It is so skillfully written that you won't want to believe what you've read.
For the first time, I could understand why women make excuses for abusers.
Are they the type to grow exasperated and leave the room, shout their lungs out or… aggressively hit their loved ones?I’m very happy with the way Colleen Hoover dealt with the subject of abuse.
It’s very well explored and the connection between Lily and her mother so beautiful yet so sad.
But mostly beautiful because of how well they end up understanding one another.To be completely honest, I wanted to stay way away from this book.
And truth be told, I want to be her.I think this book has truly renewed my faith in Colleen Hoover.
It's amazing how you can read a story that is simultaneously gut wrenching and beautiful.
until I hit CoHo's note/acknowledgements at the end and ugly cried.
"It Ends With Us" caused me to look at domestic abuse in ways I never allowed myself to in the past.
As a society we are quick to judge women (and men) who stay in abusive relationships without taking into account what the process really is like for them.
I won't say more for fear of ruining the reading experience for someone else, but this book was so much more than a flimsy romance novel.
(Maybe I'll stop ugly crying by the time you've finished reading it.)
I honestly don't know how I feel.There are times I am angry and times I am sad. And then I'm both. And it's the worst, because there is a war raging inside me, and the winner side keeps changing. How is it possible to switch from denial to sorrow to fury to acceptance in a heartbeat?  “There is no such thing as bad people. We’re all just people who sometimes do bad things.”   I did my best not to cry. I felt sick, but I clenched my jaw and forced myself to keep reading, trying in vain to ignore
It Ends with Us is the most personal and daring and painful book Colleen Hoover has ever written.
I fell in love with him, and I kept wishing that Colleen would delete these words, these scenes that hurt me and disappointed me and shattered my belief in happy endings.
At first I was judging her mother for staying, but witnessing through Lily's eyes her challenges, feeling her heartbreak and her dilemmas, made me regret all the ugly things I thought.
And damn it I loved Ryle, and I hated Colleen for that.
GOODREADS - 2016 BEST ROMANCE WINNER!!! :) https://www.goodreads.com/choiceaward... It’s a must read…It’s a read before you die… It’s a masterpiece…  “Life is a funny thing. We only get so many years to live it, so we have to do everything we can to make sure those years are as full as they can be. We shouldn't waste time on things that might happen someday, or maybe even never.”  I won’t summarize this book to you because this is a Colleen Hoover book. She doesn’t need an introduction. She is
Her name is enough reason for me to read her books… <3But you should know just one thing about this book… “THIS BOOK WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE…“This book will make you realize whatever bad things you live in your own life that we shouldn’t give up from ourselves … We just have to keep swimming until we reach the shore… This book given me a lot of things to think about… And I never found myself a situation like Lily did.
That’s all it takes to completely change everything about a person.Fifteen seconds that we’ll never get back."“Maybe love isn't something that comes full circle.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/“What a great time to have a dissenting opinion about a book written by an author with a particularly rabid fanbase!” said no one ever. In case we haven’t met and you’re seeing this review due to the new IN YO’ FACE! Goodreads format which shares reviews/updates to your feed errrrrrrrry single time one of your friends likes or comments on them, allow me to introduce myself. My name is Kelly . . . .  Also, I spoil things, so back away q
Mr. Right 2.0 is not only another most perfect perfection that ever perfected, but he’s also rich and a neurosurgeon and very obviously husband material even though he’s never had a girlfriend (also after dating only six months), annnnnnnnd due to their mutually busy schedules not really knowing the guy.It wasn’t too hard to see where the story was going to go (and no, I hadn’t been spoiled because I didn’t read any reviews or the synopsis, I just auto-request everything by Hoover from both NetGalley and the library).
Finally, it leaves us with a beautiful if not sad moral lesson that the right thing to do may sometimes also be the hardest thing to do.People say that teenagers don't know how to love like an adult.
You feel that weight on your shoulders and in your stomach and on your heart no matter how old you are.The book is peppered with phrases like the one above, and the more I read, the more I got the feeling that the words were coming from the author's mouth and not the protagonist's.At the beginning and end of the novel, there is a personal message left by the author, and the motivation for this book suddenly becomes clear.
Y’all are telling me this author writes vaguely shitty romance novels and is unbelievably overhyped... and yet this masterpiece exists? I call bullshit. If you have read this book and also follow my reviews, you know the topic of abuse is one I sort of talk about a lot. this book got it right. this book got it so, so right.  So let’s talk about why.  → character work ← I knew I would love Lily from the moment she stood up at her abusive father’s funeral and refused to speak. And oh boy, was I ri
If you have read this book and also follow my reviews, you know the topic of abuse is one I sort of talk about a lot.
And even though there is a touch of romance, I think the book is very explicit about it not being healthy for Lily to jump right into a new relationship.
And I think that means a lot to me, how his character is nuanced but also irredeemable for Lily.
I mean, aside from these three things, everything about this novel was basically good - the writing is extremely clean and easy-to-read, there are some really really funny moments, the romance that does end up occurring is genuinely sweet, and it's overall a win - but on a personal level?
it was simply okay when i expected it to be ~amazing~.(view spoiler)[there were two romantic tropes that bothered me because i don't like the tropes themselves and because i didn't think it was executed THAT well: insta-love and love triangle.
i didn't feel anything for their relationship and ryle seemed like a plot device to me.
it made me sad to think lily didn't end up with atlas IN THE FIRST PLACE but i guess that would make the whole purpose of the book redundant.
I. Am. DONE. I do NOT like books that manipulate me. I do NOT like authors who think it teaches life lessons by making everything literally the WORST scenario possible. I do NOT like books that I endorse, tell 100 people to read (when I'm at 47%) because it was so amazing-wonderful-addicting-beautiful, and then have to eat crow because a million dreadful things have to happen to get to the fucking point. And for those who ADORED this book, do NOT come at me and tell me I am wrong, didn't underst
I do NOT like authors who think it teaches life lessons by making everything literally the WORST scenario possible.
I do NOT like books that I endorse, tell 100 people to read (when I'm at 47%) because it was so amazing-wonderful-addicting-beautiful, and then have to eat crow because a million dreadful things have to happen to get to the fucking point.
And for those who ADORED this book, do NOT come at me and tell me I am wrong, didn't understand the message, whatever.
I do NOT like being manipulated (SEE ABOVE) when I was already okay with how things would eventually turn out.
4.5 estrellas.Wow. Solo puedo decir... wow.No esperaba que Colleen me fuera a sorprender así. Si ven mis videos saben que cada libro que ha ido sacando me ha gustado menos y menos, ¿pero este? Es de lo mejor que ha escrito. Estoy sorprendida de una muy buena manera.Escribiré mis pensamientos completos pronto.
Find me on Instagram & Twitter!  ❝I wish cutting my feelings off for the person who hurt me was as easy as I used to think it would be. Preventing your heart from forgiving someone you love is actually a hell of a lot harder than simply forgiving them.❞  It Ends With Us was beautifully complicated. It was hot and cold. Up and down. Good and bad. Beautiful and ugly... I'm still trying to figure out how I really feel about it all because I'm genuinely torn on how I want to perceive this storyl
To be honest, I think I might've loved Ryle even more than Lily did but that's another story for another day.
But I just kept on reading because I was guiltily hoping that Ryle and Lily would still have their happy ending despite all that had happened.
I wasn't exactly rooting for Atlas but I wouldn't have minded if Lily chose him in the end.
And in truth, I think this is exactly what Colleen wanted us to actually sit down and think about because victims who've experienced abuse wouldn't be rooting for Ryle and Lily.
“There is no such thing as bad people. We’re all just people who sometimes do bad things.”  I am a mess. Torn. So, so goddamn conflicted. Broken over the what-ifs of this book. Filled with sorrow. Proud. I feel manipulated. Tricked. Heartbroken. Educated. Thankful. Mindfucked. It Ends With Us is nothing like I’ve ever read. It certainly isn’t like any other novel Colleen Hoover has written. The word ‘DIFFERENT’ is just etched into its very essence. I feel like Colleen put part of her story and
I feel like Colleen put part of her story and her soul on a silver platter for us to observe and draw our own conclusions from it and this also became evident within the Author’s Note which, by the way, I wholeheartedly encourage you to read.
I’m definitely far from loving it and I don’t even think it’s Colleen’s best work.
This is the second book that’s ever made me feel the ‘I-love-it-but-I-hate-it’ vibes, the first being Dusty.
But I rated IEWU with a full 5 stars rating because if there’s one word to describe this book, then it’s EMPOWERING.
"Everything Shatters. My tears, my heart, my laughter, my soul. Shattered like broken glass, raining down around me."  At least now the title makes sense! Boy, do i have a few thing to say about this It Ends With Us! When i decided to give this a second chance this is not what i had on mind. It wasn't supposed to happen, damn it. First of all, this Goodreads synopsis is misleading. It needs to be replaced. Whoever came up with it deserves getting fired. What is the matter with GR users?! First,
won Goodreads Choice "Romance"?
Don't get me wrong, there were love and a dreadful "love story", I still won't call it a romance.
I can't thank enough Hoover for not romanticizing abusive behaviors.
No, i am not someone who has dealt with anything like this personally, but i am someone who always asks the question "why stay with someone if aren't treating you with the respect you deserve?" I'd like to say i am a bit more aware that it's not always that easy.
It felt like just another typical CH romance.
There is an extremely high chance they are psychopathic.
So, yeah, I'm sorry about that too.But I'm so curious right now if you've read It End With Us by Colleen Hoover, since you know, you're such a big part of the story.
Then I thought it was going to be a love triangle like Maybe Someday was, and yet it totally wasn't.
Right up into the very last chapter of the book, I was okay with whatever decision Lily made to stay or not to stay with him, because he really wasn't a bad guy.
It will be a correlation of our lives.As I read this book the little broken girl inside me started coming out.
He worked for Lily’s heart and never took her love for granted.Lily was funny as hell.
Getting inside Lily’s head, seeing Atlas the way she did made me love him too.
I think that that scared little girl in me wanted to believe he would stop, like I prayed my step-father would.This is one of those books everyone has to read for themselves to find their voice on it.
I would like to add so many excerpts (good and bad) but I'm not going to do that either.
I would like for those that haven't read the book yet to go into it without knowing too much.
There are two people in the book I didn't like, one is from Lily's past (her father) and one is from her current life (Ryle)I very much loved: 1) Atlas2) Atlas 3) Atlas4) Allysa5) Marshall6) Brad7) Darin8) Jimmy9) Lily's MomObviously, I really loved Atlas because I added his name three times (there are not three of him).
4.5 starsThere are so many things I want to say.
So many feelings I'm dying to share.And way too many thoughts clouding my mind.This is definitely a book that needs to be discussed thoroughly, but not in a review.
I wanted so desperately for things to be different.
Love has the power to blur the lines of acceptance.
MY NAKED TRUTH: I told myself awhile ago, I was done with CoHo. That I would never read another of her books, ever.
I can honestly say, this was a powerful book.
It managed to make me look at things a little differently and I love that.
SPEECHLESS. This book left me completely speechless. It's why this review will be far from eloquent and admittedly a little short. I've been staring at the cursor as it blinks in silence on my computer screen, trying to come up with a review for this unbelievably complex, astonishingly real, and heart wrenching novel. I can't decide what I want to tell you and I think that's because I really  don't want to tell anything at all. I went into It Ends with Us with a clear head and absolutely no idea
I've been staring at the cursor as it blinks in silence on my computer screen, trying to come up with a review for this unbelievably complex, astonishingly real, and heart wrenching novel.
I can't decide what I want to tell you and I think that's because I really 
It's settles you into an easy reading pace, makes you feel good, cocoons you in it's warmth, and then when you think you're happy and safe, you're not.
It tears you down piece by piece until you're left confused, torn, broken, thinking, "I can't believe this is happening.
I don't want to influence your reading experience.
I want you to READ.
4.5 STARSColleen Hoover delivers a story that is not only thought provoking but will indeed get those emotions running amuck. Lily Bloom’s story is told well with wit, heart, and a fantastic cast of characters. Fans of this author will not be disappointed in the presentation and heart that she has placed in this book.  ‘Imagine all the people you meet in your life. There are so many. They come in like waves, trickling in and out with the tide. Some waves are much bigger and make more of an impac
(view spoiler)[ I do think Ryle was redeemable if the author so wanted however I got the pain of what became of their love and survivors need never to go back.
Don’t get me wrong, I liked him a lot but the love connection for me was with Ryle not her childhood friend.
To my shock it seems that I read this one a certain way and double the number of friends read it as Atlas and Lily’s love story from the get go.
I took a little deep sleep afternoon nap - When I opened my eyes, I found Paul resting beside me.
I said..."do you mind.......LISTENING TO THIS AUDIOBOOK"?
- WE DISCUSSED THE issues - at some point - later - but at that moment, I turned off the audio - not wanting to get to the VERY END...even though - by now - I KNEW WHAT was coming .....and I reached for Paul to snuggle.
I get it: ITS COMPLICATED!!!!!I'm still not sure if I'll read any other books by "Colleen Hoover", or not, but this book deserves all those high ratings.
A HIGH 5 star rating!!!!!!
*COMPLETELY SPOILER FREEEmotional.Incredibly insightful.Empowering.Eye-opening.Not to mention completely original.It Ends With US is filled with such raw truths I had to stop a few times and just think about a line or passage I just read.
It is filled with SO many heartbreaking moments I didn’t think my heart could endure it all.I read this book a few weeks back, and it has stayed with me since.
It made me question things and situations I never thought I would even think twice about.
Like Nicholas Sparks (who by the way is a huge homophobe which is the one big reason I'll never ever read one of his books or watch his movies) you know exactly what to expect.
So yes I rolled my eyes a during the first few pages when a tall, dark, hot stranger meets the main character on a rooftop in the middle of the night and they immediately share their deepest thoughts with each other.
Yup, my head hurts from rolling my eyes this much.Now this book tackles one big topic and it's called domestic violence and abusive relationships.
This was my first CoHo book and it looks like I picked a good one to start with.
It's surprising but even though the book had already been out for a while, other than hearing that it was very emotional, I didn't actually know what it was about.
I've seen reviews from friends that absolutely love this book and some from friends that really didn't care for it.
but that's the best way I think I can describe how I feel about it.I've now listened to handful of audio-books and I'm really enjoying them.
