https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50187.Dear_Scott_Dearest_Zelda
I became fascinated with Fitzgerald, the person, when I was in college, when I read his letters, full of that same self absorption but infused with passion.
He writes to Zelda from the time he's trying to win her (she was 18 or 19, he was about 21, freshly out of college) through their marriage, their breakdowns, their illnesses and her hospitalizations.
How much was it the fault of Zelda, equally or perhaps even more self-absorbed, but angry and fragile?
Reading the letters was at times edifying, painful, heart rending, and perplexing .
I highly recommend this collection to those who are intensely interested in the subject.
¿Cómo puntúas un libro así?He estado a punto de no hacerlo y luego he pensado que no, que es injusto y que solo por lo arriesgado de publicarlo y por el trabajo enorme de ordenar las cartas, alternarlo con la biografía y demás, se merecía 10 estrellas.Me ha resultado muy curioso conocer los entresijos de esta relación y leer cómo se hablaban el uno al otro en su correspondencia.
No me parece una relación idílica, todo lo contrario.
Y, sin embargo, es una relación muy muy especial.Me ha gustado mucho hacer el parón de narrativa para alcahuetear en sus vidas.
Informative, Fun & Beautiful! An Amazing Read! I Loved It!
If you haven't fallen in love with Zelda after reading this I'm not sure what you're doing with your life. This was beautiful and haunting and easily one of the best things I've ever read.
Most everyone knows the love story of F.
Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald, but this book of letters between the two - from courtship to togetherness to the breakdown to their final years - makes the timeless story even more poignant.The book is very heartbreaking, in the positive sense of the word.
The letters are written in a very ornate way (maybe over-the-top cheesy/bitter/sad at times) but it reminds us why the Scott and Zelda story is that darn good.
It's not wonderful, it's heart-rending.
I don't love this book; it now occupies a very special place in my heart.And Zelda's letters...
Reading the letters serves to debunk many of the Fitzgerald myths: principally, that the marriage was overwhelmingly toxic.In truth, what we get from these is a sense of the deep and abiding bond between Scott and Zelda, however complicated and troubled they each were at times and in their own ways.
Their letter-writing was mutual right to the end, despite Scott's serious affair with another woman.Anyone who hasn't read Zelda's Save Me the Waltz may also be surprised at what a strong and distinctive voice she has, from the start when she is very young, right up to when the letters stop on Scott's death, despite her various breakdowns and institutionalisation.

There are many misconceptions about the relationship between Scott and Zelda and this book should lay them to rest. It shows that throughout their relationship the deep underlying constant tone is love, compassion and support for each other. The letters let you watch them grow as people and as a couple through their constant struggles. Reading them is a very intimate experience and I would suggest doing so without distractions as if they were sent to you personally. They are absolutely beautiful and honest and their ability to express themselves through written word is unparalleled to most.
We ruined ourselves -- I have never honestly thought that we ruined each other. ~ F. Scott FitzgeraldYou are the only person on earth, Lover, who had ever known and loved all of me -- Men love me because I'm pretty -- and they're always afraid of mental wickedness -- or men live me because I am clever, and they're always afraid of my prettiness -- But you just do, darling -- and I do -- so very, very much -- ~ Zelda Fitzgerald
Completely lovely.
Completely devastating.
I mean, this while they are both unwell and poor, and the one writing it in a mental institution: “Dearest: I am always grateful for all the loyalties you gave me, and I am always loyal to the concepts that held us together so long: the belief that life is tragic, that a man’s spiritual reward is the keeping of his faith: that we shouldn’t hurt each other.
And I love, always your fine writing talent, your tolerance and generosity; and all your happy endowments.
Nothing could have survived our life.” America has no gods, you say?
Neither of them come across as people easy to deal with and with the added problems of alcoholism (Scott) and mental instability (Zelda) and the way they galloped through the roaring twenties one can't be surprised that it ended in such a mess.
Or as Zelda herself summarizes things (in 1939):"Dearest: I am always grateful for all the loyalties you gave me, and I am always loyal to the concepts that held us to-gether so long (...) Nothing could have survived our lives."
Of course we all know the tragic Fitzgerald story but reading it from the inside, as it were, sheds a completely different light on things and forces you to rethink opinions on these two tragic characters who lived so publically.I'm glad another reviewer said this but I definitely saw a bit of Zelda in myself which gave the book further resonance, although it did make the letters hardgoing at times.A brilliant book that offers an unparalleled view into the world of two of the brightest stars of the last century.
Difficult at times for those of us with an emotional disposition but a must-read nevertheless.
In light of that, it's easy to read this book and come down fully on Zelda's side because Scott's voice isn't there to explain his actions (and when it is, it often doesn't come across well, because many of the Scott letters that do survive are thought to have been unsent and contain some very bitter and cruel thoughts).
First of all, I'm of the belief that the world needs to be reading a lot more Zelda Fitzgerald than they are doing, so people should get on this collection if they want to find out how utterly lush her writing is.
Scott and Zelda are like beautiful, albeit shattered mirrors reflecting each other's souls in this book.The old adage of before you can say I Love You, you must learn to say "I" really doesn't seem to hold true for these co-dependent, spinners of words, all they can spell is d-o-o-m.But hey, that's what we love about them, right?The beautifully crafted sentences, which tap into our soul and emotions.Ah, Scott and Zelda really embody the "Call of the void", the self destructive will to live is what these letters are all about.
She would often review his works.- Scott's great concern for Zelda and Scottie's well-being.
- Scott reference several other renown people which always amusing (including Gershwin!)There were several moments that were bittersweet and saddening to learn as well: how Scott was dealing with such low self-esteem, the several illnesses that plagued him including tuberculosis and heart problems, subjecting himself to unbearable work in the efforts to scrape the barrel for enough money to support Zelda and Scottie, the feeling of no longer being an adequate voice for the generation, etc.
Its also sad that many of Scott's letters to Zelda weren't recovered.
I love you my darling, darling." Scott to Zelda "Thanks again for saving me.
Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald and this collection speaks for itself in terms of their characters.
It is shaped only by small chunks of information provided for context.Despite the things that can be argued against them, I think this collection clearly expresses why Scott and Zelda were people who should command a great amount of respect, even from today's reader: Scott for his ability to motivate himself to be exceptional and disciplined with his craft despite a truly miserable and pressing financial burden, all the while refusing to abandon Zelda to her hallucinations and obsessions.
I wasn't sure how gripping a book of letters would prove to be, and approached this collection tentatively.
Editor Jackson Bryer beautifully brings the Fitzgeralds to life as people--exploring Zelda's schizophrenia and Scott's alcoholism without reducing their entire lives to them.
Before this book, I admit, I had never liked Zelda much, but reading her letters it's clear the biographies don't begin to do her justice.
Even if it had nothing else to offer, this book would've been worth reading for this paragraph (of Zelda's) alone: "My hair was damp when I took off my hat and I was safe and home and you were glad that I felt that way and you were reverent.
The book does a lot to challenge what I think has become an unfortunately pervasive misconception - that Scott drove Zelda to madness and belittled her creative talents.
I found the letters from the last year of Scott's life particularly heartbreaking.
I'm only just beginning to learn more about his & Sheilah Graham's relationship, but the letters he writes to Zelda in his final year - no matter how happy and calm he was, and rightly so, at the end with Sheilah - make it clear he never stopped loving and caring for her.
There is some beautiful prose from both Fitzgeralds as well, making the book an enjoyable read on a purely aesthetic level as well.
I've been a big Scott and Zelda fan since high school, and though I'd read their biographies and novels/stories, I'd never before read their letters.
Their letters made them come fully to life, and I feel like I have a better understanding of who they were as mere mortals.
Most of the letters come from Zelda, and trace her transformation from a coy debutante to a mature, reflective woman struggling with mental illness and lack of freedom and mobility.
In her letters, Zelda comes across as witty and wise, and Scott as driven but devoted to his wife and daughter to the very end.
I thought this was a very illlumating read.
It is primarily only the letters of Scott and Zelda to each other, with some commentary and context thrown in by the authors.
They had a sincere, loving, and evolving relationship.
The romance of their youth turned into the mature reflection and support of parents as they aged.
Their lives are so tragic and poignant.
Many more of the letters in the book were Zelda's than Scott's and she wrote beautifully.
I think his letters were lost due to the fire, although it was explained in the book I don't remember.
I loved this.
It was informative, endearing and ultimately heartbreaking.
I am truly fascinated with the correspondences that occurred before phones were in every home or a cellphone in every pocket.
It amazed me how through it all, Scott never stopped financially taking care of Zelda.
You could see in some of Zelda's letters how her illness was changing her but I could also see the difference in her later letters.
She desperately wanted Scott to come back east, and I wonder what would have transpired if he did.
The letters chart the very beginning of their courtship when Zelda was 18, full of youth and optimism, right to the end when their lives fell apart and they struggled to survive.
Yet, the overflowing love from their letters portray a couple whose affections did survive their hardships.
It's just so tragic that their lives were short though immensely explosive and influential.
The end that describes Zelda's death, their combined gravestone and the reference back to Zelda's 19-year-old ruminations on graveyards was really sad, yet insightful and very reflective of life's unpredictability and brevity.
I'm a huge F.Scott fan, but after reading this book, I am equally a Zelda follower as well.
In fact, reading through these letters, I came to find that I didn't like F.Scott the man so much, the writer, yes, the man, no.
Her story is a tragic one and a lot of his letters didn't survive, so the perspective of this book can be a bit skewed.
Zelda was a beautiful writer - artist, dancer, etc.
He loved her until the end though...I'll give him that.
A good, slow book to read.
It's like reading found love letters.
Zelda Fitzgerald was a very endearing person to read. Her love letters to Scott demonstrate such a passion for him. I can only dream of finding someone that passionate. It's a shame that alcoholism was such a huge component in Scott's life, which by my understanding, was a contributing factor that prevented him from giving her the proper attention and affection she so desperately craved.I think an ideal romantic relationship would blossom when there is successful communication on both ends, a commitment to a common goal, and no jealousy of each other's personal successes.
This is a must have for fans of Scott and/or Zelda Fitzgerald.
Their letters begin during their courting, and last all the way to the bitter end, where their marriage had essentially fallen apart, but they still had a sense of love for each other.
Like their books, their letters were beautifully written and intense, and the readers can see the love they both held for one another.
They were consumed by it.
As an outsider looking in, it's almost like you feel you're invading their personal and private letters, but I still recommend this for any fans of the Fitzgeralds.
What a fantastic collection of letters. Mainly Zelda's, they provide a fascinating insight into the much-mythologised Fitzgerald marriage.
Ugh these guys break my heart.
Read in one day!!!!! Loved it:)
So amazingly witty and tragic. Loved every page.
As a literature major, I've read a lot of Scott Fitzgerald's texts and I really love all of them very much.
A few years ago, I discovered that Zelda also did some writing which I then put on my to-read-list.
There are more letters of Zelda than there are of Scott.
The reason for this is that Scott's point of view has been published many times, but Zelda's has not.
I felt Zelda's struggle to become healthy and to be her own person.
I think the profound and universal thoughts expressed in these letters will haunt me for quite some time.
