https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338585.Tarzan_and_the_Ant_Men
In this series, you can't toss a stick in Africa without hitting some type of lost civilization or city, and most likely, that same stick is going to hit someone in the head and give them amnesia.There seems to be a new "lost city" discovered in every Tarzan novel, and in this one there were technically two civilizations found.
(And there's amnesia involved.)So at one point, Tarzan finds himself shrunk down to the size of the ant men at around a foot tall.
"And you intend," he demanded "to defy a city of four hundred and eighty thousand people, armed only with a bit of iron rod?" "And my wits" added Tarzan. That's some good Tarzan right there.
The good parts of this book were really a hoot--Tarzan learns to fly and discovers that his arrog...er, self-confidence is not an asset in a pilot, Tarzan's evil twin discovers that he is NOT King of the Jungle while Gulliver's Travels meets the Taming of the Shrew.
Obviously Burroughs was having a great time writing this book.
All this in such a slim book--it must be very busy!
A problem easily solved by honing your art of the fast skim when reading this book.
By far the best book ever written.
Surprisingly enjoyable, I have to admit. At this point I'm committed to finishing the series even if it kills me.
I've been enjoying the Tarzan books enormously up until now, but this one was horribly tedious. Way too much information about the ant-men, their customs, sewage systems, monetary systems, language, etc. etc. etc.Then try wading through tongue-twisting names like these in sentence after tiresome sentence:KomodoflorensalAdendrohahkisVeltopismakusianTrohanadalmakusianZoanthohagoHamadalbanZertolostoKalfastobanBurroughs must've randomly pounded his fist on the typewriter keys to come up with names for his characters.I gave up reading it about three-quarters of the way through. Hopefully, this book was just an unfortunate aberration and ERB will get back on track with more of the Tarzan I love in the volumes to follow.
One of the worst Tarzan books by Burroughs and maybe a sign that he was starting to lose interest in his most successful creation. Fortunately, he still had a few good ideas left for some of the later books. This one is only interesting for hardcore Tarzan fans, boring, ludicrous, an example of all the worst traits of so called pulp-fiction.
Edgar Rice Burroughs has an interesting story, always. This book is no exception. Tarzan learns to fly a plane, which crashes in an unknown land to him. He discovers new species of people, makes friends, makes enemies, and uses his wits and strength to get him out of his fix. Definitely a fun read.
My only complaint is the names for the Ant Men are a total headache to read and remember. Burroughs did predict our soy male generation with the Alali, making this prescient science fiction.
I really liked the Ant men that were small. And Tarzan turning tiny was brilliant! 10 down, 15 to go!
Very Good read!
Even though the Tarzan stories are over 60 years old they remain timeless. These books are fantastic reading. These books make all the movies and cartoons seem meaningless. Highly recommended
Probably one of my favorite Tarzan novels about his adventures among a tribe of 18-inch high pygmies.
The way it’s been lost and found and traveled all over is truly a miracle.
But that is the way of bureaucracy, everything is so compartmentalized nobody knows or cares what others are doing as long as it doesn’t interfere with their own job.
Third, when Tarzan escapes from the lion into the underground borrow with his friends why didn’t the lion eat/kill the antelope mounts left up top?
Then there’s the quick personality changes, etc.But the surprise at the end was totally unexpected, but still a bit implausible.Fave scenes: the young Alalus boy helping Tarzan, Zoantrohago’s experiment explanation, escaping down the shaft and the two locked doors.
One of ERB's better books. Although scientifically impossible, the shrinking of Tarzan gives it a sci-fi spin. ERB was definitely a product of his times, and sometimes his attitudes about race seem more than a bit off-base, but You can see him evolving with the times. In this middle section of books, I am observing more social commentary - some very incisive thoughts are worked in to the mostly action-filled prose.
Tarzan flies solo in an airplane that crashes inside a thorn forest. Inside he encounters the Alali, a group of primitive humans, and beyond them the "ant men", a race of foot high humans living in two mutually hostile cities. Tarzan is captured by one of them and they have the technology to shrink him (temporarily) to their size and enslave him. And so it goes...

Took me well over a year to finish this. The story contained way too much backstory and interuptions for world building as ERB had to explain several different civilizations Tarzan runs into. Made the story drag on terribly.
More violent than some other entries, and the 6-and-7 syllable names make it a hard read. Still, some interesting development of the female dominated cave society. Russ Manning’s comic strip sequel was more fun.
Another good adventure with a lost civilization.
Edgar Rice Burroughsin "Tarzan ja pikkuväki" (Karisto, 1944) oli eräs lapsuuteni suurista lukuelämyksistä, jonka pariin palaamista odotin hyvinkin suuresti.
Tarzan onnistuu kuitenkin pakenemaan, mukanaan jättinaisten alistaman miesjoukon edustaja, jolle hän opettaa aseiden käyttöä ja itseluottamusta, ja niinpä miesten ei tarvitsekaan enää jatkossa olla tossun alla..."Hyvin ylpeänä ensimmäisen naisolennon poika selitteli Tarzanille parhaansa mukaan sitä muutosta, joka oli tapahtunut alalien keskuudessa sitten kun hän oli Tarzanin kasvattina oppinut oivaltamaan ajanmukaisten aseiden merkityksen.
Huvittaakseen Tarzania ja osoittaakseen hänelle, kuinka huimasti sivistys oli kohonnut zertalocolien maassa tarttui ensimmäisen naisolennon poika erään naisen hiuksiin, laahasi hänet luokseen ja iski häntä lujasti päähän ja kasvoihin nyrkillään.
Said to be the last of Tarzan's adventures where the narrative focuses solely on the the welfare of the main character, Tarzan and the Ant Men introduces more secondary characters whose lives are changed and effected due to their interaction with Tarzan.
Tarzan experts claim this novel represents ERB at the height of his storytelling prowess and creativity, and a story structure that ERB would use in most subsequent Tarzan tales.I could have used a little more action, and less of the descriptions of the different tribes Tarzan encounters.
However, the author does some interesting "cross-cutting" between the main story and the sub-plot, that no doubt reminded me of filmic storytelling.
Unfortunately with this book Burroughs also adds sexism to his ever-present racism.
The gradually increasing ascendency of the female Alalus over the male eventually prevented the emotions of respect and admiration for the male from being aroused, with the result that love never followed.{cool tarzan}Tarzan had stood smiling and indifferent, for the rage of others amused him where it was greater than circumstances warranted, and now he waited for Caraftap and when his adversary saw the smile upon his face it but increased his spleen, so that he fairly leaped upon the ape-man in his madness to destroy him,
Perhaps the most interesting part of reading this book is the insight into the time it was written--- The description of the social developments within the societies of the Minunians and the Alali, for instance.
The Alali was a female dominated society and as such had never developed spoken or written language.
The people in this village are corrupt--taking bribes and taking advantage of one another at every opportunity.This gives us an idea what the sociological developments of the day are---and the attitudes and social mores of the people.
2016 - I love Tarzan, let me just get that out there.
Still gets an extra star or two for nostalgia and overall Tarzan love, but this is a bad book.
I can't remember hating any of the Tarzan books but this one flat out sucks.
How else do you explain their inability to recognize an imposter, especially when ERB constantly talks about the huge and distinctive scar across Tarzan's forehead.
I especially hated the whole subplot where women can't love without men to teach them how and that they're just hoping to be beaten into submission so they can be happy.
I remember getting my start reading "Tarzan and the Leopard Man" some year in the 1950s.
Not being a good napper (not a napper at all), and being bored silly, my space always lay near the Tarzan books, the only one in reach.
The next think I remember, was my first book addiction, one after the other until the year ended, the power of books to transport from the nap rug to the dark continent.
There I read "Tarzan of the Apes" in Castillian Spanish...sort of.Knowing this my brother in law got me this book.
I'll have to say it wasn't quite as good as I remembered it.
I found this copy published in 1924 in my parents' basement.
Any modern woman would be HORRIFIED at the storyline involving the brutish shes who terrorize the males and drag them back to imprisonment to mate and then release them again to the forest.
In the end they beat the women and the former killers are grateful and in love with the man she now respects.Other than THAT storyline, the adventures of the ant men and the shrinking of Tarzan and the escapades within a wall of the enemy are fun to follow.
Tarzan takes off in his son's plane despite being warned that he is too inexperienced to fly solo, and promptly crashes it into the jungle.
He encounters a primitive people where the women club the men and drag them round by the hair, and, realizing that this makes everyone very unhappy, he teaches the men how to use weapons, thus restoring their nutritional intake, and consequently, good looks and self-confidence.
Order is restored when the men once again begin clubbing the women and forcing them to do the cooking, a bit of red-blooded violence being what was needed to reawaken the women's admiration, respect and undying devotion.
This book's a rip off of 'Gulliver's Travels', and one of the bad Tarzan books written by Burroughs.
The story was too cheesy and boring.
It never grabbed my attention.
I was so eager to finish it just to get rid of the thing for good.
I say this many times and saying it again, I really curious to know what really happened to the emagination power of Edgar Rice Burroughs after writing his early Tarzan books, coz some of them are so horrible.
Maybe he wrote too many of'em, but then again most of his non-Tarzan adventures're also pretty, pretty bad
Half of this book is a four star adventure with Tarzan first befriended by and then enslaved by a race of 1/4 sized humans with a structured ant-like community structure. The other half is a 2 star commentary on gender relations with a race of neanderthals where the women are strong and hunt and subjugate the men (until Tarzan teaches the men how to use weapons and stand up for themselves). Also included: not so subtle commentary on prohibition and World War I! Very Burroughsy, and absolutely worth reading for the title alone.
