https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/258038.The_Good_Master
I hid it in my school desk so the teacher wouldn’t notice I was reading instead of listening to the lesson (yeah, I was that kind of kid).Think Farmer Boy set in old-time Hungary, and then add Kate, a feisty, mischievous cousin from the big city of Budapest, who is sent to stay with her country cousin Jansci and his parents because she's so spoiled and unmanageable that her single dad doesn't know what to do with her any more.
A good dose of country living, farm chores and firm love help Kate turn around, but she keeps her mischievous streak!
1936 Newbery Honor book. This is like the Little House books, except set in Hungary. I loved everything: the folk tales, Kate's antics, the details of everyday living. Why is this book not better known today? It deserves to be read.
Exuberant.
Wholesome.
Informative.Ten-year-old Jancsi, an only child, is the first person we meet.
On page 2 of the text, we learn that ...It got so lonesome for poor Jancsi, he would have given ten horses for a brother.
He had it all figured out -- he would give a donkey for even a sister.
Not horses, just a donkey.On page 76, a shepherd explains why he doesn't need money ..."What would a shepherd be doing with money, Mister Nagy?
I am happy.
The sky gives me sunshine and rain.
The ground gives me food.
The spring gives me water.
stops a horse stampede!), Kate grows to love country life and becomes pleasant and productive.I loved this book as a child but couldn't remember the title until I came across it recently in a book list.
The book also contains interesting descriptions of Hungarian country life in the early 1900s -- traditional customs, dress, farm life -- and intersperses Hungarian folktales into the story.
The author also illustrated her own book, and her drawings add beautifully to the story -- sort of an art deco meets folk art.
But Seredy keeps the complexity of the personalities as a sort of undercurrent to the story so that while young children may not pick up on it and can still enjoy the story at face value, an adult can appreciate the characters on a deeper level.While there are a few moments of drama, for the most part, it is a tale of everyday life in the rural plains of Hungary in the early 1900's, prior to WWI.
It would seem that she also has a partiality for folktales and fables as there are several instances of older characters recounting such stories to Jancsi and Kate, which while it was a bit different I didn't find it a negative.
Jonsi, a boy from the Hungarian Plains, is unimpressed when his cousin Kate comes to stay from the city.
Her father can not control her and is hoping is brother will be able to guide Kate with a firm, but loving hand.
As weeks turn into months, the cousins have many adventures together and Jonsi may decide that having a girl for a cousin isn't so bad after all.This is a charming book.
I liked the adventures of Kate and Jonsi and the folk tales were interesting.
At first I found Kate too headstrong and crazy but I grew to like her.
Jonsi isn't as memorable as Kate.
I love these stories that bring on nostalgia and make me ponder whether or not I could have lived and thrived back in the day.
I'm fairly certain that I wouldn't have been able to, I am grateful for being here when and where I am.
I had a fun moment when I turned a page and recognized an illustration from my childhood and realized that a story I loved as a child in the Collier's Junior Classics is a chapter in this book.
That was fun.
The other thing I loved in this book were the stories and/or myths that were shared, especially the story of Prince Mátyás.
I expected better writing. We found this book did not flow well as the sentences were short and choppy. The story was okay, but my older children found it a bit juvenile.
"Little House" in Hungary. Wonderful, warm, inviting, and informative historical fiction. Perfect for children and adults of all ages.
Kate Seredy uses Hungarian names of everything like coat=suba, prairie=puszta, and names like Jancsi and Árpád without giving notes on pronounciation or origins.
The only character with a name with an Americanized spelling, "Kati" is actually "Kate", a name that could never be a Hungarian name, not even in the capital city.
Why the dual spelling?No matter how wise, uneducated country men would never compare a wild girl to a monkey.
Seredy continually usee phrases that are not appropriate for the setting and the era.The "folk tales" have little to do with actual ones, the wonderful myths become dull in her interpretation.
Own.We read this book as our "Fun Novel" at the end of Whatchamacallit (Circle Time, Morning Time, Morning Basket, Symposium, Whatchamacallit).
I loved the beautiful writing, thoughtful story, and many of the ideas presented.I was disappointed by how Romani were portrayed in the story.Kate, a wild, spoiled imp of a city-girl, is sent to live with her uncle and his family after an illness and the death of her mother.
She is completely out of control and her father doesn't know what to do with her.
My children were completely enthralled by the book: laughing at Kate's antics and begging for more.
This book is highly recommended by all of us with some qualifications about reading and discussing together.
All three had a profound effect on my world view that has continued on into adulthood.
For a kid who grew up in the middle of the Pacific ocean, these three books opened my eyes to the rest of the world in a way that hadn't happened before.The story takes place in the early 1900s and revolves around Jansci, a young Hungarian boy and his trials and tribulations concerning the arrival on the family farm of his 'delicate' city cousin, Kate.
This book will take you there.

Jancsi and his father, Marton, don't know wha they're getting into when they pick up Kate, Jancsi's cousin from the city, at the train station. Her father had written that she was "delicate" and had "had the measles" recently. They expect a shy little girl. They don't know that Kate's father had LIED about her!
Good book for the whole family.
Although not wealthy in terms of money in the bank, his life is full of natural riches: soil, animals, crops, and most importantly a lovely wife and son.
Uncle Marton immediately begins to guide her with his firm and gentle hand and as she starts to find a place in the rhythms of farm life, her temperament begins to change.
This is a gentle book and full of beautiful scenes of rural life on the plains of Hungary.
It was a joy to see the transformation of Kate as she learned some very important life lessons.
I fail to appreciate the humor of adults, like Jancsi's parents, saying "poor Little Lamb" and neglecting to deal seriously with a kid's oppositional and mean behaviors that endangers others, although maybe kids might enjoy it.
On the plus side, the egotistical and monstrous Kate almost kills herself, after her many attempts to kill others, so that she eventually learns the hard way to become someone who bears a slight resemblance to a human being, so the last few chapters were good.
Too bad that the adults didn't try to save Kate the grief by teaching her these important life lessons the easier and safer way.
I read this book aloud for school. Everyone gave it 5 stars. This was a great story about growing up and growing in kindness and generosity.
I suppose we're each supposed to imagine the colours in.I really enjoyed reading the rest of Kate's story, but by the end I was drawing amused comparisons between this book set in Hungary and books like Farmer Boy. Ms Seredy knew her American audience of the 1930s, and the Newbery tropes are firmly in place: little spitfire girl sent to her relations in the country to convalesce from an illness learns that "every bite of bread takes a lot of hard work." I am aware this is true, but few authors feel the need to put it in so many words, twice in as many sentences.

As Kate's uncle - the "good master" named in the title - does his best to teach Kate the proper way to behave, Kate and Jancsi have many adventures involving horses, gypsies, and the county fair.Despite the foreign setting, this is a book with which boys and girls will feel immediately at home.
For American readers, these stories give wonderful insight into the customs and traditions of Hungarian culture, and they also help the reader to understand Kate's growing appreciation for her culture, and for life on the ranch with her cousin's family.This is a charming novel for families to share together as a read-aloud, or for children in grades 3-7 to read independently.
The author-illustrator Kate Seredy was born in 1899 in Hungary where she spent some youthful summers on the plains of Hungary that inspired her work of juvenile fiction THE GOOD MASTER, a Newbery Honor Book for 1935.
(It was a runner-up to that year's winner CADDIE WOODLAWN, which Kate Seredy had illustrated!) NOTE: There is a follow-up to The Good Master called THE SINGING TREE, published in 1939, and that book also received a Newbery Honor Book award.
Seredy once admitted that writing books was, for her, an excuse to illustrate, and I agree that drawing seems to be her strength.
We know what we gain from technology and progress, but what do we lose?
While these questions were spinning around my mind, I picked up The Good Master--which I'd read years ago as a young teenager--to real aloud to my girls.
What I'd forgotten--or perhaps hadn't noticed--was the way the story hinges on the tension between progress and a life closer to nature.
It even answered a few of my questions...Ultimately, this is a beautiful story and a wonderful read-aloud, but take note: the chapter "Kate and the Gypsies" is rife with stereotypes and negative portrayals.
The day to day life of the farm was idyllic and peaceful - yes there's work involved, but it's a simple sort of work with real importance and value.
There are several times where value is placed on quality of life, working for love and building things that last rather than just being a part of the daily grind.
Certainly worth recommending to someone with a work-life balance issue.Throughout the book are lovely Hungarian folk tales.
Since the tales were spread orally, there are probably numerous different versions of these stories.
These particular versions are sweet and engaging, full of good morals and encouraging wise thoughts.
A frail city girl who needs fresh country air is being sent to the Jansi's house.
The "frail city girl's" name is Kate.
But as time goes on Kate changes.
It takes a lot of time for her to change and now and than she has adventures!
Kate is mysterious and fun loving and can ride a horse almost as good as "The good Master".
But soon Kate is lovable and is longing for her father who sent her away to his brother because Kate was so snobby and he couldn't control her.
I read this book in seventh grade and loved it.
I love books that have stories within stories, like this one.
And I love books that aren't really about anything, but just mosey along!Kate is a problem child, but I like how The Good Master parented her and for pete's sake can I throw this book at some parents I know?!My favorite story was the rooster one.
I used to tell that to all the little kids I knew, and then I completely forgot it!
But now I know it, so I'll tell it again :DI loved this book.
I love the kids' books of the 60s!
This is a beautiful story! I love the message of hard work and good character that comes from it. We read this in our homeschool and I am so glad. My kids adored it, too! There are so many funny parts that kept them laughing.
Great story for kids! Not a great literary work but very effectively eaches a lot about the rural lifestyle, culture and history of Hungary through the medium of engaging stories about the adventures of two cousins. Reinforces good values.
I am 1/4 Hungarian, and this book was always a huge favorite in my family. It was recently introduced to the next generation and retains its appeal.
My oldest daughter loved this book SO much and now wants me to read it so we can discuss it. :)
