https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133620.The_Little_Disturbances_of_Man
BREVI TRISTI STORIE DI LUNGHE VITE FELICI Grace Paley, che non c’è più dal 22 agosto del 2007, mi ha colpito.O meglio, mi hanno colpito i suoi racconti: sono fuori dal coro, possiedono un ritmo insolito, si muovono come uccelli sui rami, sono composti da un orecchio perfetto.
Il Manhattan Bridge da Lower East Side.Ottantacinque anni di vita, quaranta anni di attività e solo quarantacinque racconti per un totale di 370 pagine: più qualche poesia, e poco altro.
Grace PaleyFiglia di immigrati ucraini, ambienta le sue storie nella comunità ebrea di New York, soprattutto tra le strade del Lower East Side.Un personaggio ritorna in più racconti: Faith.
O yüzden hemen nasıl "güçlü" olduklarının altını çizeyim:Tüm baş kişiler kendi seçimlerini yapıyor ve bunların sonuçlarına cesurca göğüs geriyor.Onlar delice sevdikleri erkeklere canları tak edince "Hadi Güle Güle, Uğurlar Olsun" diyebiliyorlar."Hem Genç Hem İhtiyar Bir Kadın" olarak tutkularının peşinden gitseler de olgunlukla dizginleri ellerine alabiliyorlar.Yeni bir hayat kursalar bile eski eşlerine duydukları sevgi bitmediyse onları sevgiyle kabul edebilecek kadar olgunlar.Sınıftaki "En Gür Ses"e onlar sahipler ve bu gür ses sadece erkek egemen topluma karşı değil, azınlık olmanın derdiyle de çıkıyor."Hayattan Bir Beklenti"leri yok çünkü istediklerini elde edebilecek kudretteler.
Ah öyle güzel bir baskısı var ki kitabın.
I was disappointed by a couple at the end that feel like failed experiments.But Paley's distinct voice is already developed: frank and wise, cobbled together from the colourful cadences of immigrants in Lower East Side apartments, streets and stairwells.Paley is a true original, and this is essential reading for anyone interested in short stories, Jewish-American fiction and fiercely feminist urban life in the 40s and 50s.
Meia dúzia de contos um bocado chochos. São mais, mas já não os li, pois não estou para me contrariar com leituras que não me aquecem nem me arrefecem...
The cover of this edition has a line from Philip Roth: "spendidly comic and unladylike".
Oh. Well, if there were unwanted pregnancies, then maybe people were having sex and authors like Paley could write about it.
My favorite story was the first, Goodbye and Good Luck, where a young girl gets a job as a ticket seller at a Jewish theater and then is wooed off her feet by an older actor.
In The Loudest Voice, Jewish schoolchildren are cast as the stars in the Christmas play.I admit there were a couple of stories that wandered far from quirky and all the way to bizarre.
Paley writes in a breezy manner that corresponds to her stories.
İlginç konuları ve renkli karakterleriyle keyifle okuduğum bir kitap oldu. Öyküler sıradışı ve eğlenceli. Anlatım dili mizah içeriyor ve zekice kurgulanmış öyküler var. Yazarın kendi hayatı ve politik duruşu da yer bulmuş öykülerde.
The curse words are so expertly placed, you would swear Paley has made poetry of profanity.…Written in New York in 1959, this collection of stories involves real love, real life, and the real city of New York.
…I love Grace Paley's voice--the idiosyncratic, strong, quirky, voices of her mostly women characters.
I love the fact that Paley was a peace activist in the 60's.All I can add is that this is, for me, an easy five star read.I read this collection of short stories as a part of Grace Paley’s book  The Collected Stories .
I had never read Grace Paley before and certainly didn't expect such a weird, wonderful writer. Her stories are disturbing, surprising without being gimmicky and very funny. Some of her sentences are so perfect, they made me gasp. This collection of stories was going to launch my new plan - to keep a book of short stories on my bedside table and read a couple a week or whenever I'm too tired to dip into my current novel. But my plan didn't work - I read all of these irresistible stories in a couple of days.
It's hard to tell sometimes.I received The Collected Stories of Grace Paley for Christmas, and I decided to open 2016 by reading The Little Disturbances of Man again before moving on to her other collections.
She demonstrates the kind of warmth and grace to be found in the most potent complaint.Her central concern seems to be the predicament of women in our world, but all of life seems to find a place in that theme, and so we end up with these rich, multi-faceted little narratives full of humor and tragedy and telling detail.But Paley's voice is the main thing for me.
Earlier this month I came across Grace Paley’s The Little Disturbances of Man on the clearance rack at Half Price Books.
Cozied up in my favorite wingback, sipping at hot tea with milk, in the quietest room of our home, I devoured The Little Disturbances of Man.The experience was, for me, like answering the door to a big box of long stem roses in March, when my birthday has long since past and my anniversary is still months away.
Reading Paley’s The Little Disturbances of Man was, for me, a most delectable experience.
Less political than her second collection and maybe therefore not as charged or textured?
Here's a self-critical comment cleverly embedded in the collection's last story: "'What's the matter with you?
Don't put yourself on a platter.
What are you -- a roast duck, everything removable with a lousy piece of flatware?
Be secret.
Turn over on your side.
Let them guess if you're stuffed.
Old Richard-the-Liver-Headed, he saw right through to the heart of the matter, my syntax."That's about as accurate as possible a review of the dominant formal dealio herein.
Beautiful short stories that may be some of the most notable of Paleys.
This book outlines the sexually charged life we lead as human beings and how that can be complicated by communication, distance, closeness, and much more.
Gorgeous little volume from a beautiful writer.
After reading this, pick up more Paley.
She is like that fun old lady that is your aunt - a little too cute at times and always sneaking up with a funny, inappropriate innuendo.
Real, fun, short, sweet, this book is a fine dessert that could be the light follow up any hefty literary meal.
2.5' tan ☆☆☆Kitabı çok sevemedim maalesef. Sonlarında bitirmek için cebelleştim. Yazarın diline bir süre sonra alıştım fakat okuma heyecanım öyküler ilerledikçe azaldı. Özellikle birkaç öyküde ' Ne anlamalıydım?' diye düşündüm. Anlam yükleyemedim, hoşlanmadım. Sevdiğim 1-2 öykü ve bazı kısımlar oldu fakat etki bırakmadılar üzerimde...
Grace Paley (1922-2007) ha scritto solo racconti - pochi, tra l'altro. Questa è la sua prima e più nota raccolta, del 1959: apprezzabile tuttora, lo fu particolarmente all'epoca, per lo stile singolare e innovativo - con Saul Bellow e Philip Roth tra i principali estimatori.(Grace Paley fu inoltre una pacifista... molto "battagliera", soprattutto ai tempi del Vietnam.)
i'd read and loved paley's story "wants" in an anthology somewhere and so i figured i'd try this collection of hers a try.
unfortunately, this collection is her first, 12+ years before "wants," and the stories are much longer and "normaler" than that brilliant little jewel.
it's impressive how she changes voices so completely and convincingly from one story to the next, but in the end only one of these stories (the first, "goodbye and good luck") actually had any emotional effect on me, and none of them are particularly imaginative.
she writes good sentences but my overall reaction was: eh...
"I served myself hot coffee in the living room. I organized comfort in the armchair, poured the coffee black into a white mug that said MAMA, tapped cigarette ash into a ceramic hand-hollowed by Richard. I looked into the square bright window of daylight to ask myself the sapping question: What is man that woman lies down to adore him?"Highlights: "The Pale Pink Roast," "The Loudest Voice," "An Interest in Life," "Two Short Sad Stories from a Long and Happy Life," "In Time Which Made a Monkey of Us All."

This was an amusing collection of short stories. Am interested to read more of this author's work.
Que homem mais novo saberia da vida o bastante para ser tão jovem quanto ele?»Grace Paley, «Pequenas Contrariedades da Existência» (conto «Adeus e Boa Sorte»), tradução de Paula Castro, Relógio D'Água______________________«A avó lançou-me um olhar infeliz.- Passa-se o mesmo com todos os filhos - explicou.
Ele é muito esperto.»«A mãe exibia uma das suas disposições sombrias e indolentes, infalíveis para atear fogo a certos homens.»«Vivendo como vivo uma auto-estrada de desconsolos, alegra-me ouvir no quarto ao lado os rumores de uma felicidade incessante.»Grace Paley, «Pequenas Contrariedades da Existência» (conto «As Idades da Mulher»), tradução de Paula Castro, Relógio D'Água______________________«- Oh Peter - disse Anna - estás a trabalhar?- Caramba - continuou ele - continuas com as mesmas mesquinhas preocupações...
A friend sent me an article about Grace Paley written by George Saunders at the New Yorker magazine.
These short stories are feisty, sexy, witty, non sentimental, set in another time and yet people don't change.
You would be better off to read George Saunders article in the New Yorker to fully appreciate the genius of Grace Paley.
I would have done anything for him, if he were only not too sorry to ask me."You were a nice kid in those days," said John, referring to certain Saturday nights.
"İnsana Hiç Rahat Yok Kendinden" birbirinden özgün öykülerden oluşuyor. Öykü okumayı sevenlerin çok beğeneceğini, bu kitapta yeni bir soluk bulacaklarını düşünüyorum. Özellikle yaratıcı öykü isimleri benim favorim oldu. Bunun yanı sıra kendi hayatından gözlemlediklerinden yola çıkarak farklı karakterlerin ev sahipliği yaptığı öyküler üreten Grace Paley'nin okuduğum ilk kitabı olmasına karşın hiç yabancılık çekmedim, yadırgamadım dilini. Yüz Kitap'a ne kadar teşekkür etsek az. :)
The Little Disturbances of Man: a compilation of eleven short stories written by Grace Paley.
In her short story, “The Contest” Freddy is the narrator and gives perspective as to what a man would think in the situation that the woman cannot simply live without commitment, which happens quite often in society.
While reading these eleven short stories, I felt as if Paley made the lives of her characters so open to me in a way that they seemed vulnerable.
One thing about Paley was that she simply opened up the lives of these characters for readers to observe the troubles or successes of these love stories.
The Little Disturbances of Man- Grace Paleyreview by- Victoria RyanGrace Paley explores the “little disturbances” in her so aptly named “The Little Disturbances of Man”, with a collection of short stories and anecdotes.
The humor in “Little Disturbances” is quite the driving force, leaving the reader with a sense of personality.
I found that the language in each story relatable and hilarious almost the entire book.
Grace Paley has pulled out all of the plugs on social qualms and put all of humanity out for all of us to see in a hilarious showcase in her witty, uncivilized, and painfully real “The Little Disturbances of Man”.
The only reason I didn’t give up on this collection halfway through the first story is because I had to do a joint presentation on the author as part of my MA degree.Checking other reviews, I see I’m of a minority who can’t stand these type of stories. Here and there my interest was caught, hence my rating it two stars instead of one, but on the whole I was either bored, irritated, or both.Too many characters, not enough plot.
One of her sentences is worth an entire tale from a lesser craftswoman, the most important thing being the way she tells her stories--her distinctive voice and its sardonic, sincere look at the lives of early twentieth century Jewish New Yorkers.
Paley is another of those writers who lets the gaps between her sentences do a lot of the heavy lifting, making her stories dense and pleasure-packed reads.
Yet she focuses on the blind alleys and heartbreaks as much as the dopey successes, cataloging some of the many ways sex and love intrude upon otherwise happy, functional lives.
The action in Paley's short story, "An Interest in Life", takes place in an urban tenement.
And thus the story concludes, John visiting Virginia every Thursday night, even as Virginia is convinced that her husband will eventually return.I suppose this is a story of female emancipation, and indeed Virginia does indeed make a decision to pursue happiness and chart her own way, but it is curiously drifting sort of decision and kind of life.
The overall earth tone is blended skillfully with a general sense of the inevitability and acceptability of hypocrisy, creating an odd but memorable atmosphere of life actually lived and not just imagined.
Grace Paley tenía habilidad para deleitar al lector con historias donde predomina el tono jovial, compuesto de humor disparatado y ternura hacia sus personajes —los dos juntos son unomismo— pero a su vez muestra la contraparte contando una historia "seria" —casi siempre en el mismo relato—.
Esto es, en verdad interesante e incluso un detalle para analizar.Grace Paley, quien prefería el cuento como forma de expresión(y por tanto sabía manejarlo bastante bien), fue una escritora con voz personal y una narrativa completa —que si bien no estaba para reflejar una realidad, se encuentra muy cercana a lo ocurrido en en la vida; donde hay alegrías pero también tristezas.

I rate this book a 3.7 on a scale of 1 to 5 with 5 being best.
Described as a set of little disturbances, these stories have the ring of Bellow to them, without the philosophical excursions (which could make them more accessible for many readers).
Yes, I am saying that these stories are on a par with Bellow.
They are stories about average people chasing their humble 1950s dreams heroically.
I heartily recommended these stories for their pathos and their life affirming humanity.
This is one of the best sets of USAmerican short stories I've encountered.
One of the best story collections ever written. My review at Guernica is here:http://www.guernicamag.com/blog/1385/...The first story is like the first chapter of Pride and Prejudice, a perfect piece of comic writing. Once you strip away the differentiating markers--American, Jewish, twentieth-century, etc.--Paley might be the truest literary sister to Jane Austen. Her characters learn what Austen's heroines would have learned past the endpoint of their books: that the quadrille of anxiety, jealousy, mockery, and passion preceding sex and marriage don't end with them, but that no one has to lose their poise in the process.
