https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3197039-bright-island
It feels like an unexpected amalgam of a Heidi, Anne of the Island, and Swallows and Amazons, with a little Railway Children thrown in for good measure - the isolated girl who is just fine with staying that way, who has to carve out a place for herself among townsfolk; the extraordinary girl going away from her beloved home to school, a completely foreign environment where she is seen as a hick but proves herself and wins good friends with a very good mind and an unaffected attitude; the completely unsupervised children messing about with boats – and a timely rescue or two.
While the situations are perhaps not commonplace today, the emotions are no less apropos.
What I noticed, however, was that the book is written in a style that is strikingly different from that found in children's fiction of recent vintage.
Too many of today's books seem dumbed down through the influence of video.
Novels read as if they were merely screenplays; if something can be put into dialogue, it is.
In this book, the author is not afraid to use written language to express thoughts and emotions, even avoiding dialogue at times while still conveying what is being expressed in a conversational interaction.
This book, I tell you, it was so good in some ways, and so flat-out awful in others.
This is about a girl, living in a remote place, right in the heart of nature, weather, etc.
This was where the story got a little "Miss Pettigrew Lives For a Day" smarm on.
There were still some good moments, like when she brings a friend home for Christmas, and the two worlds collide.
And when she goes down to the shore and stands there, right back in the center of nature and wildness, and feels that connection, that solidity, that belonging that the people on the mainland know so very little about.
I do, however, love the fact that Thankful is allowed to end up doing just what she always wanted -- staying on the island she calls home forever, instead of learning that it's better to broaden your horizons by going to college or moving away for a while to find what you really want from life, which is absolutely the lesson it would have ended on if this book had been written today.
It reminded me of the way it feels to read stories like The Penderwicks, The Boxcar Children, The Happy Hollisters, Charlotte's Web, Little Women, Little House on the Prairie, Anne of Green Gables and such.
Written over 75 years ago it still has a timeless feel to it especially as a coming of age story.
The descriptions of the island and the sea were so beautiful that you imagined them to be 2 more characters in the story.
Rather than reading about that I decided it's best to leave them frozen in time in 1938 and enjoy the beauty of the story for what it is.
This is just the kind of old-fashioned book I love, very reminiscent of A Girl of the Limberlost. Thankful's understanding but no-nonsense mother also reminds me of Velvet's mother in National Velvet. And there are some boarding-school elements as well, another of my favorite themes. I can't believe I'd never heard of it before, but now it's been re-issued for its 75th anniversary.
In the same vein as The Bent Twig, Up a Road Slowly, even Understood Betsy. Elisabeth Ogilvie comes to mind too. Loved it.
In the year that follows, Thankful learns the ways of the modern world, which has many more luxuries than her island home, and comes to a greater understanding of herself as a human being.Bright Island was originally published in 1937, and it was a 1938 Newbery Honor book.
These scenes heighten the tensions between Thankful's island life and the modern world on the mainland and show the reader interesting sides to Thankful's character as well as that of her roommate and of Robert, a popular boy from school.
She doesn't much care for other people, and has a difficult time fitting in when she goes to spend a year on the mainland to finish high school.
Also, no one bats an eye when the high school's dreamy Latin teacher develops a crush on Thankful and, during Easter break, asks her to marry him.
But of their wives, only two of them merit an actual name; they are usually mentioned, then dismissed, as a group: "the girls," Thankful's least favorite people on the planet.
Quoted from the book - "The wives Thankful scarcely bothered to keep separate.
Didn’t have high hopes for this 1938 Newbery Honor about a remote island off the coast of Maine even after I was a few chapters deep.
And on top of that, it seems the earlier I get on the honor roll the less enjoyable the book.
“The weeks seemed to her like waves at sea, each one like the other, rolling up and flattening out, leaving no record behind.”After a difficult first day at the boarding school: “Her first deep sleep broken, that path of escape was closed.
This is just a beautiful book. It shunned the frivolous chattiness of shallowness and deeply plunged into the steady beauty of a life deeply felt and bravely lived. It's a romance in its very practical way which suited me perfectly. I can't stand romance books usually. There was so much good in this book. I have a new favorite.
Such a wonderful character. It reminds me of Anne of Green Gables, but without all the annoying prattle. This speaks beautifully of how place becomes part of you.
Bright Island by Mabel L. RobinsonISBN: 9780394809861 First thing that attracted me to this book was that it's about an island. Love islands as I spent many a year in my teens growing up on one local one.Next thing is the state of Maine. We have traveled around the state and have spent many a week there just discovering new things. Mary Curtis has 6, 4 living boys who were now all married and living on the mainland and the last child she had a daughter which she named, Thankful.They were all co
Love islands as I spent many a year in my teens growing up on one local one.Next thing is the state of Maine.
We have traveled around the state and have spent many a week there just discovering new things.
she misses him so much and loves being so free to do, dress and as she likes on the island.The mainland will be so different.The charcoal type drawings throughout the book are interesting to visualize.Another solution presents itself and that is what Thankful wants and is able to get.Is this going to be the right choice for her?Love not only the Latin language, I had picked up a book of my brother's once to study it.
Good writing, pleasant characters, nice setting, but mysteriously, the story never took hold of me.
Bright Island by Mabel L. RobinsonISBN: 9780394809861 First thing that attracted me to this book was that it's about an island. Love islands as I spent many a year in my teens growing up on one local one.Next thing is the state of Maine. We have traveled around the state and have spent many a week there just discovering new things. Mary Curtis has 6, 4 living boys who were now all married and living on the mainland and the last child she had a daughter which she named, Thankful.They were all co
Love islands as I spent many a year in my teens growing up on one local one.Next thing is the state of Maine.
We have traveled around the state and have spent many a week there just discovering new things.
she misses him so much and loves being so free to do, dress and as she likes on the island.The mainland will be so different.The charcoal type drawings throughout the book are interesting to visualize.Another solution presents itself and that is what Thankful wants and is able to get.Is this going to be the right choice for her?Love not only the Latin language, I had picked up a book of my brother's once to study it.
And perhaps it was worthy of a Newbery Honor.But in 2013 I can't see a kid happily reading this.Or perhaps, before I get a slough of 12 year olds/homeschooling moms/childless librarians and teachers telling me otherwise--I can't see the average kid of 2013 reading this onePlenty of fiction that WAS contemporary, can age well and be read forever.
Thankful isn't that compelling a character--in fact, there were a number of points in this book where I wanted someone to push her off of her dory and into the water.So the next time, oh ye hipsters of the award committees, think of that before you pick another "winner".
Set rather exotically on a small island off the coast of Maine, the novel explores one year in the life of Thankful Curtis, a high-school aged girl whose loyalty and love for her home and the natural world takes precedence over all things.
Her six older brothers have all married and left home to live on the mainland, and their wives feel strongly that Thankful should be sent off to school to get some of the wildness out of her.
Rich and descriptive writing gives real heft to this coming-of-age novel, and it is completely evident that the author lived in the environment she writes about and loved boats and the sea coast just as Thankful does.
Yep, there is one named Robert.
For all you Jane Austen fans out there, this guy is a LOT like Mr. Wickham from Pride and Prejudice, except that he lives in modern times, (i.e. in the 1930s when this book was written).
Hopefully it will clue young ladies in to what a lot of guys really want even though they appear so nice on the outside.But like most books written for girls prior to WWII, everything works out right in the end.
It is a story about a girl, Thankful Curtis, who is born and raised off the coast of Maine.
During her initial years she is home schooled by her mother, Mary Curtis, who is a phenomenal teacher.
She was a shy but an intelligent student, and finally manages to make friends and prove her intelligence to everyone.Towards the end of the novel she receives a letter asking her to return to Bright Island as her mother is suffering from pneumonia and is about to die.
Thankful returns to Bright Island with a very learned doctor who finally saves her mother's life.
Loved this simple but luminous 1938 Newbery Honor book.
She felt refreshed in the vigor of her own thoughts.""[Her mother] opened Thankful's door softly, and with competent hands covered her until only the cloudy head buried in the pillows was visible.
Then she left her in the quiet room with the sound of Jed's motor going across the water, fainter and fainter.
It was Mary Curtis's belief that a lass must do her growing alone." "When Thankful woke the next morning she felt as if she had been out in a storm which had left her battered but had washed her clean."
Schooled by her Scottish mother and taught to sail by her sea captain grandfather, she loves her life there.
Now she must face the prospect of attending a boarding school on the mainland and learning "what a woman does." It is a gentle coming-of-age story written in a more innocent time for more innocent teens.
Still, there are situations and characters here that contemporary young adults could relate to: the rich, mean girl and the charming but shallow rich boy; the sexy teacher; the need to define one's own destiny; the pain of a mother's illness.
276 Yearling 2012 Language: (0 swears, 0 “f”); Mature Content-G; Violence: G;Thankful lives on Bright Island where her mother and father taught her everything they could.
She was sent to the mainland to go to school; at first she hated it, but she learned that her grandfather paid her to go, and she found some good friends and classes that she liked.
She received a message that her mother was ill, she found a doctor to come with her to Bright Island.
I thought that Thankful was a very independent young woman that loved the sea, but was forced to go to school by those around her.
I finally finished reading this book.
The author and his future wife had a very unique relationship during their courtship by mail.
They finally decided that they were meant for each other their senior year in college and tied the knot right after they graduated.
One cool thing, as I received this book from Goodreads FirstReads in exchange for a review, I received a letter with it from the author with a list of other books inspired by or about letters.
I do recommend this book to readers interested in the '60s, love stories , or nonfiction.
Thankful Curtis loves her life on Bright Island.
She is happy to help her father on the farm and even happier sailing the sea like her grandfather before her.
Thankful is devastated when her interfering yet well-intentioned sisters-in-law decide she needs some formal schooling on the mainland.
She has an incredibly hard time fitting in with her classmates and teachers.
She tries her best to adjust though her heart and thoughts are always on Bright Island.
This delightful coming-of-age story won a Newbery honor in 1938 and is still a treasure to read today.
The characters are fabulous and Thankful's world is a pleasant diversion.
I read this one weekend morning in bed under a feather quilt with a coffee cup at my side all in one go and I think that it might just be the ideal way to read it.
I think this book would have been magic when I was young because it was still pretty magical now, reading it for the first time.
Girl grows up on remote Maine Island, goes to boarding school, encounters love and friendship etc etc.
- like Anne of Green Gables crossed with Linda Greenlaw.
And I suggest the new reedition with the original illustrations, lovely.
This book was written 75 years ago, so I do not know how I missed it.
I should clarify for my friends this is a children/young adult book.
Similar to reading a Betsy Tacy or Anne of Green Gables story.Bright Island, Maine is a place you might want to live if you were okay with no electricity and your best friend being a lame seagull.
You will fly along with her as she plays on her island and then struggle with her when she is taken from it.
A Newbery Award Winner in 1938, this book is worth picking up at any age.
I can see why this book is a Newberry award winner. Having just finished reading this book to my fourth grader tonight, I must confess that Robinson writing style has a choppy style too it. Not to say that her writing is not excellent and worthy of praise, but it was a challenge to read aloud. The story: it's good, not great, but I love the narrator's discovery of her love for home and her grandfather, not to mention her shunning modern society.
The cover of this book looked just like something I'd hate: teenage girl with windblown hair on a sailboat gazing adoringly at handsome young hunk. The book was a pleasant surprise. The protagonist is a teenage girl who's always lived on a small island off the coast of Maine. Her beloved grandfather dies and she has to go to boarding school for a year. Some romance (but not the annoying type). SOme action. Most of all, a thoroughly likable main character.
Serious Love for this book! I remember reading this at my grandmothers home in the summer of 1977. I love the innocence of the times, I love the language flow and I remember wishing I had a Bright Island to call my own. Thankful Curtis and her family whisk you away to another time. Timeless fun!
Bright Island portrays a girl who grows into a strong woman as she weighs the possibilities of life ahead of her. I love that the main character has integrity and doesn't try to be something she is not. It captures the magic of youth as one comes into their own. Also, love the descriptive "show" writing about her island and the beauties of Maine.
