https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88387.The_Assault
A Dutch police official, known for his cruelty and collaboration with the Germans, is shot outside a young boy’s house.
They make his mother walk back and forth because they believe “they can tell a Jewish woman by how she walks.” The family is not Jewish, but the Germans retaliate by killing his parents and burning his house.
The chapters, identified by years – 1945, 1952, 1956, 1966, 1981 - mark incidents when the main character, formerly the young boy, revisits neighbors, or when he accidentally runs into people involved, such as old neighbors, the son of the man who was shot, and he comes to realize he even met one of the shooters.
Moreover, it is necessary that you believe that this is a normal family, that you understand that this – the assault that occurs – could happen to anyone, that remarkable things can and do happen to unremarkable people.[Nazi collaborator and police officer Fake Krist lays dead in Haarlem, Netherlands, after being shot by the resistance]*Of course, you now want to know what the assault is.
It was as if everything grew radiant with the passage of time, like pebbles at the bottom of a brook.”					 Premonitions of what will happen with-to Anton in the future; time slipping and weaving.
This horrid trauma that forced itself upon Anton and his family, effects Anton’s life in his attempt to suppress it, block it off, which means his blocking himself off from himself.
Although, I claim my right that there were moments where personal biography thinned out the passage(s) but this was overwhelmingly rebutted by the return of fiction where the language exploded into passion, especially in confrontations with people from his past.Obviously this is a 5 star book.
Mulisch and his mother escaped transportation to a concentration camp thanks to Mulisch's father's collaboration with the Nazis, but his maternal grandmother died in a gas chamber.His novel, The Assault, opens in Netherlands near the end of World War II.
The narrative presents episodes in Anton's life; each episode overshadowed by his memories of the assault.
The Assault is one of the best novels I have read, in fact it is one of the finest examples of European postwar fiction.Mulisch also gained international recognition with the film adaptation of The Assault.
It is a generational graveyard of walking skeletons, those trying to build a sane future in the ruins of an urban charnel house in which the ghosts of World War II, even if they are not literal ones, float and exist in memory and pass before the eyes of the haunted as surely as the very real city itself; a city that is ever-changing yet which can never change enough to ever let its phantoms fade.It would seem that the story of Anton, a 12-year-old boy whose parents and brother are taken from him in a cruel twist of fate at the very end of the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands in 1945, is a minor tragedy, as tragedies go in the grand scheme of a total war.
Well I didn’t it.Here’s the thing, I’ve read a couple of WW2 stories so I basically get the gist, but this was so boring.
Anton, the main character, has no personality whatsoever.
He is probably the most boring character I have ever read abut.
Also, why was Anton more interested in some woman he met in jail than his family that was murdered by a bunch of German troops.
I mean I get it, that woman was probably the light in his darkness, but come on, it was like his family was just a small part of the assault.
الحياة جحيم، جحيم! حتى لو استقرت الجنة على الأرض غدا؛ لن تكون جنة بعد كل ما حدث.في أواخر الحرب العالمية الثانية، وبينما هولندا ما زالت محتلة، تقتل مجموعة من المقاومين شرطيا عميلا، وتنتهي الجثة لسبب غامض امام منزل عائلة "ستينفايك"، فيحرق المنزل ولا ينجو من العائلة إلا "أنطون" ابن الاثنى عشر عاما.رواية مستوحاه من قصة حقيقية، مليئة بالصراعات النفسية والتشويق تطرح العديد من الأسئلة التي تستحق التأمل عن من المذنب ومن البريء.ترجمة "أمينة عابد" ممتعة ورائعةصورة الغلاف؛ لجثة "فاكه كريست" العميل الذي اغتيل من المقاومة، التقطت من مصور مجهول في اكتوبر 1944 ضمن احداث الحرب العالمية الثانية..
The inhabitants of the house which the body falls outside drag it in front of Anton’s house, Peter goes out to try and drag it further but the police arrive and torch the house and then later Anton finds out (after spending the night in jail with a girl who seems connected in some way) shoot Peter as well as executing his mother and father.Chapters are described as Episodes through Anton’s life: he visits where his house was and old neighbours (although not the ones who dragged the body as they emigrated immediately the war ended) and discovers the memorial; he meets the son of the executed policeman; he meets the resistance member who with his girlfriend (girl in prison) carried out murder; he meets neighbour who dragged body and finds out reason they didn’t drag it to other neighbours (family who no-one liked) was that that family was sheltering Jews.I particularly enjoyed two images: the epigraph by Pliny the Younger presumably after Pompeii “By then day had broken everywhere, but here it was still night – no, more than night” and a Prologue image of complex waves and ripples made by a motorboat in the canal.
De aanslag, Harry Mulischعنوان: ترور؛ هری مولیش؛ مترجم: سامگیس زندی؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1393، در 205 ص، 9786002294760؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان هلندی
Much like that book , The Assault also takes place during WWII or, technically, the main event of the story does, and the it takes decades to get to the bottom of it.
Mulisch's life had been profoundly affected by WWII, which has informs his writing to a great degree.
It's a powerful psychological story, and even something of a mystery, that works exceptionally well in spite of, or most likely due, to its succinctness and, of course, cleverness as the plot unfolds, taking many years for the murder of a Dutch collaborator to become finally completely explained and understood.
Great book.
پسرِ پلیسِ کشته شده و مردی که هم دست زن در آن شب بود.واقعا نمی شود کسی را مقصر شناخت، همه چیز به جنگ و فضای نفرت انگیز و رعب آور آن بر می گردد تا یک سری اتفاقات باعث از بین رفتن پدر، مادر و برادر بزرگتر شود.
این کتاب خود جنگ است..توضیحات بیشتر درمورد کتاب باعث از بین رفتن لذت کشف حقایق می شود.
I've just been reading Caroline Moorhead's books about the Nazi occupation of France and the French Resistance and felt suddenly drawn to augment that reading with another resistance story.
(For this, too, is a story of resistance, albeit in occupied Holland, though one cannot know that by reading a brief description of the plot, and to explain further would reveal too much about the story, which contains a mystery element that is only explained on the final page.) I again found this beautifully written, haunting, and a gripping page-turner.
I finished in tears just like that first time, too.
"He...stood with his back to the future and his face toward the past.
Whenever he thought about time, which he did once in a while, he did not conceive of events as coming out of the future to move through the present into the past.
Instead, they developed out of the past in the present on their way to an unknown future."This is a book about memory and how a memory -- in this case the massacre of the Dutch protagonist's family by the Germans in the closing days of World War II -- shapes a life.
By the end of the book, he is older than his father lived to be.

Fabulous book. Intelligent, well-crafted, gripping story, beautifully translated
This was a bit better than I expected, but I still didn't like it. At all.
I love books that take me into myself.I've just finished Harry Mulisch's The Assault.
But as I was reading The Assault, I was struck at how similar that 185-page novel is to my own 63-page novella, One More Victim.His work is written in five episodes: 1945, 1952, 1956, 1966, 1981.
I don't know how long it took Mulisch to write The Assault.
The rest of the novella is the tale of the boy's life.One reviewer, Katy Sozaeva, called One More Victim "An amazing, heart-breaking, beautiful story." That's how I would sum up The Assault.
Those neighbors then moved the body to the front of the Steenwijk's house, and they saw that the dead man was the local Inspector of Police, a notorious collaborator who was reviled and feared for his cruelty towards his fellow citizens.
He is haunted by the events of that fateful evening, and although his future is a bright one with a beautiful young wife and child his view is to the past, as he desires to learn what happened to his parents and brother, and to find out more about the events that led up to the Inspector's shooting.
Bovendien leidde dit tot mijn late herontdekking van Mulisch: ik had zijn boeken grotendeels gemeden omdat ik altijd dacht dat Mulisch een systeembouwer was die alle raadsels verklaart en daarmee doodmaakt, maar door "De aanslag" (en de toelichting van De Rover) besefte ik dat hij de raadsels juist op voor mij heel inspirerende wijze exploreert en vergroot, en dat zijn werk dus veel rijker was dan ik altijd dacht.
Maar het is ook een treffend beeld voor “De aanslag” als geheel: onder het ogenschijnlijk heldere en goed te volgen verhaal ontrolt zich een veelvoud van motieven die allerlei patronen vormen, maar die patronen zijn voor Anton en voor de lezer niet te overzien.
In postwar literature the horrors of Naziism tend to be painted in broad strokes.
In The Assault Harry Mulisch narrows it all down to a finer point; the impact of one event on the life of one man.
The events that quickly follow will shape the rest of Anton's life.
In this short novel we follow Anton through all the rage, grief, and confusion he feels as he tries to move on.
And through Anton Mulisch gives us a clear picture of all the rage, grief, and confusion that was WWII.
The Assault is one of the finest pieces of postwar literature you'll ever read.
Things are not always as they seem, and each person's perceptions of reality are limited by circumstances. In this masterful and intriguing novel, the protagonist's perception of a traumatic event is altered over time by accidental encounters with other witnesses to the same event. The reader also learns how the event and individual perceptions thereof shape the destinies of those involved. The work poses a moral question, both to the characters and to the reader, which has far-reaching implications and has the power to engage the mind long after one finishes this richly rewarding masterpiece of the storyteller's art.
This is quite good.
داستان این کتاب را دوست داشتم : پسربچه ای که اتفاقی در کودکی اش باعث می شود، خانواده اش را از دست بدهد، و در تمام سالهای پیش رویش، این حادثه همراه وی حرکت می کند تا اینکه به مرور تمام رازهای این اتفاق معلوم می شود.غافلگیری فصل آخر را که نشان می دهد یک اتفاق می تواند هم جنبه های مثبت و منفی داشته باشد، دوست داشتم
داستان این کتاب را دوست داشتم : پسربچه ای که اتفاقی در کودکی اش باعث می شود، خانواده اش را از دست بدهد، و در تمام سال‌های پیش رویش، این حادثه همراه وی حرکت می کند تا اینکه به مرور تمام رازهای این اتفاق معلوم می شود.غافلگیری فصل آخر را که نشان می دهد یک اتفاق می تواند هم جنبه های مثبت و منفی داشته باشد، دوست داشتم
A gripping WWII novel, set in a war-torn Dutch town. After a A Nazi collaborator, is gunned down, while riding home on his bicycle, setting off repercussions, that resonate, with all the people involved, guilty and innocent, through the rest of their haunted lives. An excellent look at the ravages of war.
الملخصواجه ماضيك حتى لا يعود ويبحثك عنك وانت تظن أنك قد دفنتهرواية جميلة سلسة وذات فكرة وكم أعشق الروايات ذات الأفكار
شكرا دار الكرمة علي هذة الرواية العظيمة بهذة الترجمة البديعة
In revenge the Nazis would burn Anton’s house and kill his entire family, a traumatic event that would become the object of Anton’s obsession as he grows old.In terms of form, the novel starts with a prologue depicting the assault and the ensuing massacre.
But Anton knows the difference between the two sides on this count: “Your father was killed by the Communists with premeditation because they had decided that it was essential, but my family was senselessly slaughtered by Fascists, of whom your father was one.”The next episode is set in the year 1966 when Anton meets Takes, one of the partisans who assassinated the police inspector.
یک داستان از جنگ جهانی دوم...داستان از آخرین ماههای جنگ جهانی دوم آغاز میشه، در یک شب زمستانی و قحطی... آنتون، قهرمان داستان، با پدر و مادر و برادرش تو خونهشون صدای شلیکهای پیاپی رو میشنون، یک پلیس همکارِ نازیها مورد سوءقصد قرار گرفته. همسایه این خونواده جنازهی پلیس رو جلوی خونهی اونا میارن، کاری که باعث میشه از اون خونه و خونواده فقط آنتونِ سیزده ساله باقی بمونه. نازیها خونهی آنتون رو آتیش میزنن و خونوادهاش رو اعدام میکنن.داستان از اون شب آغاز میشه و تا کهنسالی آنتون رو روایت میکنه، سالها طول م
همسایه این خونواده جنازه‌ی پلیس رو جلوی خونه‌ی اونا میارن، کاری که باعث میشه از اون خونه و خونواده فقط آنتونِ سیزده ساله باقی بمونه.
نازی‌ها خونه‌ی آنتون رو آتیش میزنن و خونواده‌اش رو اعدام میکنن.داستان از اون شب آغاز میشه و تا کهنسالی آنتون رو روایت میکنه، سال‌ها طول میکشه که حقایق مربوط به اون شب آشکار بشن، از طرف کسایی که این سوءقصد رو انجام داده بودن تا همسایه‌ای که جنازه‌ی پلیس رو جلوی خونه آنتون آورده بود، همه‌ی حقایق آشکار میشن.‌‌پوچی جنگ رو بهتر از این نمیشد روایت کرد...
2.5 ★
All Quiet on the Western Front was just a tale of how bad war is (it's bad).
The Assault was a tale of how bad war is (it's bad) but also about how the sides aren't always black and white.
The resistance fighter who shot the collaborator lost his love and his brother but also cost Anton's family, at the very least, their house.
I believe that The Assault carried a far bigger and far more important message than did All Quiet on the Western Front because it does not simply condemn war - that's easy to do.
