https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/913586.The_Americans_Vol_1
This is a remarkable book about colonial life in America, presented in a fashion quite unlike most history books provide. Boorstin looks at various aspects of life - religion, literacy and literature, the press, the military - and examines them in turn, and paints a picture of life in the colonies as reflected in the activities of the colonists. It is an excellent way into the beginnings of American history, from a fresh and innovative perspective.
Compared to more recent history books, this one is a bit dry, but nevertheless very interesting, and comprehensive in scope.
Colonial Americans had a stronger sense of equality, provincialism, and practical "know-how" than people in England.
Despite their isolation, Colonial Americans spoke a purer form of English language, and linguistically their speech was much more homogeneous across the entire country, than neighboring cities in England.
Colonials read a lot, especially newspapers.
The press was censored by state governments, but more people read newspapers than in any other country of the time.
This book is essential reading for anybody interested in early history of the country.
(hide spoiler)] for Boorstin's credentials.Prior to reading this book, I knew bits and pieces of American history, but now I feel I have a very solid, fundamental understanding of America’s beginnings.
Also important to note is that this book gives virtually no time to the discussion of slavery and only brief mention of Native American influences such as warfare and agriculture.
Last of all, Boorstin seems to have been a great fan of America and its history and may seem to give too much credit to the colonial Americans and not enough to their European forefathers.
I cannot remember reading a nonfiction account of any chapter of American history which consists of more didactic dribble, more tripe, more utter garbage than Daniel Boorstin's "The Americans, Vol. 1: The Colonial Experience." I feel more ignorant of our nation's history having read this.
Nearly every chapter begins with wide sweeping hyperbole regarding some facet of American Colonial life -much of it untrue.
In one chapter entitled "How the Puritans resisted the temptation of Utopia," he writes: "Perhaps because their basic theoretical questions had been settled, the Puritans were able to concentrate on human and practical problems." As you can imagine, he speaks of the Puritans with glowing reviews.
I have pages of notes on this book; I could review the interesting differences between the hardline but pragmatic Puritans and the supposedly doctrine free but very doctrinaire Quakers, how Georgia was supposed to be built upon silk (?!), the particularly interesting blend of aristocracy and commercial spirit that created Virginia's upper class and our first breed of presidents, the details of the literate but not literary people who lived in colonial America, and the militia spirit that was so irksome of anyone trying to lead them into battle.
I can add nothing that hasn't been already noted in other reviews. This a tour de force by Brother Boorstin that brings reality to those days so long ago when America was clearly a magnificent experiment. Our geography, our settlers, our national background is so entirely different from Western Europe that one wonders how it ever got off the ground except through HARD work, commitment, and the hope for better things to come. Well worth the read . . .
This book is rather dry and, I believe, was intended to be a text book. I waded through and parts were rather interesting. The author explains why the conditions unique to the United States shaped who and what the U.S. Is today.
Daniel Boorstin’s The Americans delivers a cultural history of the American colonies, beginning first with profiles on the disparate groups that settled on the eastern seaboard (Puritans, Quakers, and Cavaliers), and then following the growth of American religion, law, and education in the new world.
While the Pennsylvania Quakers and New England Puritans set out to create utopias on a fresh plain, for instance, Virginia’s settlers knew perfectly well that the utopian mark already existed in England, and their intention was to re-create its social institutions.
When discussing Native Amercan relations it can border on something stronger than patriotism, although in most other instances his biases are less problematic.The high points are nuanced comparisons between the new and old worlds.
In one example, colonial scientific pursuits are shown to lack rigor - new world scientists are largely seen as indiscriminate data gathers and tinkerers - whereas Europeans are presented as more apt to draw unified conclusions from data sets collected by colonials.
However, the new world's freer attitudes allowed for intuitive leaps, such as Franklin's experiments with electricity, that were precluded by theoretical dogma across the pond.Ultimately the text is worth reading.
When I saw this volume on sale as an e-book and was trying to find a new genre to read, I decided to pick it up.Although I feel like I have a broad knowledge of American history over this time period, this book went into more detail and I learned a lot that I didn't already know.
The author looks across various aspects of life and the time period and discusses what was going on at the time, covering topics such as religion, politics, and literature.While it was a little dry, it was much more interesting than reading a textbook and there were many things I didn't know.
I look forward to reading more about history in the future.
Fascination in depth history of the colonies, newspapers, book printing ties with England, politics, the Quakers and Puritans. This is the 1st of 3 books.
Or at least that's my hope.Still, there is plenty to think about and plenty to learn from his very extensive work on how the people of colonial America came to shape America -- from religion to literacy to the military.I did learn that one of the problems of having Quaker values inserted into the political life of Pennsylvania was the strong belief by Quakers against taking an oath.
Virginia was impossible to navigate and so localism reigned.What was more interesting was the later parts of the book showing how the experience of people in American were fundamentally different than the establishment in England and elsewhere in Europe.
This seemed to provide a ready standard of pronunciation in a land without a cultural capital or ruling intellectual aristocracy."-And my favorite quote from the book:Speaking of James Logan who owned one of the three largest personal libraries in the early colonies,  "Yet he doted on his books and expected them to be the entertainment of his advancing years." This is very much how I feel about my books and why I don't stress about having a lot of unread books on my shelves.

It is apparent, of course, that the book was written before it became good practice to cover our country's history not just from the point of view of the colonizers, but also from the point of view of those who had been displaced.
(There are plenty of other resources, of course, focusing on the dark underside of the American conquest.) Still, if you want to know how the colonials lived, what they read, where they studied and prayed, what were their diseases and the cures, how they were governed -- many of your questions will be answered.

I decided to pick up "The Colonial Experience" after reading "The Genius of American Politics", which I really enjoyed.
This is the first volume of Boorstin's social history of the American people, and while it can occasionally become tedious in its fascination with the trivial, there are also illuminating discussions on the notion of "self-evidence", and how Americans benefited from a lack of professionals in areas such as law and the ministry allowing ample opportunities for improvisation and adaptation to a "new world".
The picture Boorstin paints of colonial America is of a society relatively unburdened by the excesses of cumbersome distinctions and systems of thought.
this took a while to finish but it is well worth the time
This award winning book by someone I never heard of changed how I select books to read.
One chapter tells the story of mastering the ocean through fishing and ship building.
Another chapter deals with the stony landscape and the creation of quarries for monuments and building.
An inspiring book filled with meaningful "minor" history written in an easily read and remembered style.
I now collect and read books that were prize winners in history.
As a result I have discovered several writers I had never heard of and read some of the best books.
Boorstin is an incredible writer.
Even though it is over 50 years old and some revisionism certainly is in order (few achievements by women, Native Americans, or African Americans are mentioned)I have learned so much about the various mindsets and goals of the individual colonies and how they came to be.
Boorstin's objectivity and scholarship is hard to scoff at.
I would like to strap down the politicians who keep mentioning the principles of the "founding fathers" and make them read this book until they write a complete essay of the main points.
Each colony was so different, with different religious beliefs, goals, aspirations, and environmental conditions.
This is one of the finest books of history I have read in some time.
Boorstin's thesis is that the development of many of America's institutions and practices are not wholly a result of what was transplanted from Europe, but rather shaped by the nature of the environment the early colonials were faced with.
From religion to medicine to education to science and language and even war, the author makes a very compelling case.
When considering current issues of the day in 2013, why policies or practices don't work well can sometimes be explained by the early American experiences found in this book.
If you're in the mood to go behind the scenes of Pre-Revolutionary America, this is a good place to start.
For example, many colonies were founded by particular religious sects.
But did the members of these sects have what it took to govern effectively?
The answers may surprise you.
Did you ever wonder why so many of our Founding Fathers came from the society of wealthy Virginia plantation owners?
Again, the factors involved are complex and fascinating.
These, and many other concepts of early American colonial life, provide a more in-depth analysis to how the American way of life came to be.
14 The colonies were a disproving ground for utopias.21 Roger Williams influence on John Milton.32 Central role of sermons as they were the only form of entertainment.40 Puritans were reliving the Exodus.60 Puritans believed the Indians were cohorts of the devil.66 Quakers and their martyr complex were hanged byt eh Puritans for preaching.111 Quakers became dissenters in their own country.130 Georgia founded as a utopia philanthropists opposed to slavery.180 The Virginia aristocracy.238 Settlers arrived before the explorers.
First read(scanned) this book for my 11th grade American Civilization/ English class. Got through it. I picked it up again about a year ago and really got into it. Was really impressed with how disparate the circumstances under which the various colonies were founded, and how that effected each of their collective approaches and contributions to the founding of the nation. Should be read by every American--I guess that's why I was suppose to read it back in my LBSS days...
The first book in Daniel Boorstin's historic trilogy about the American experience provides a panoramic view of early American life, from the Puritans settling in Massachusetts Bay to the plantation farmers of Virginia. A great book for understanding some of the forces that shaped the American point of view and which continue to inform and influence our nation.
This is the first of Boorstin's "The Americans" trilogy. More than just a repeat of the history we learned in junior high, this is an insightful look at Colonial America from discovery up to the Revolution. I recommend reading the whole trilogy, in order.
I get so much out of this book I re-read it when I can.
Wonderful, though long book. Told of history you don't always learn in school. Fascinating facts.
That's what this book does--it offers a panorama of the life of a colonist, and nothing is easy. NOTHING.
the REAL story of america
