https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256279.Troubles
This woman, Angela Spencer, resides in her father’s seaside hotel near Kilnalough, and the historical interest of the book comes from the Major's observations—on and off, during the next two years—of the changes in the atmosphere of the hotel and the town as the Irish desire for independence intensifies, particularly as it affects the decaying Anglo-Irish Protestant gentry, like the Spencer family itself.Just as interesting as the history, however, is the ghost of the gothic which envelops the book.
Like the Major, Rover had always enjoyed trotting from one room to another, prowling the corridors on this floor or that.
(view spoiler)[This Man Booker award was decided by a public vote from a list of six novels published in 1970.
But at the time of the story the hotel has lapsed into a decrepitude described by Farrell in outrageously humorous language.The “Major” of the above quotation, Brendon Archer, is a veteran of the Great War, a man who while on furlough in 1916 met, very briefly, Angela, the daughter of Edward, the Majestic’s owner.
A light, mordantly mournful comedy of Anglo-Irish manners lazily dawdling from 1919 to 1921 at the pace of an ancient laden donkey featuring a tepid, sad non-romance of pallid mooning and more annoying old ladies than you can shake a zimmer frame at may not sound like your version of a good time.
The Majestic is the star of this show, the Gormenghast of hotels (Actually, the hotel is called The Ajestic for most of the story as the M falls off and nearly brains the owner’s favourite dog).The laundry was a vast, desolate cellar, a continuation of the kitchen’s; ranks of Gothic arches fled into the dim, greenish distance, each arch made of thickly whitewashed stones.
The thick congregation of deciduous trees, behind which one could hear the sea slapping faintly, thinned progressively into pines as they made their way over the narrowest part of the peninsula and then returned again as they reached the park over which loomed the dark mass of the hotel.
As they approached he looked up at the great turreted wall hanging over them and tried to count the balconies and windows.The mighty hotel stands as a metaphor for the Empire – it is far past the days of its prime; it is in the state of bleak decline and severe disrepair.
It was a public vote that decided the winner from the shortlist, and furthermore, discussion with the book group whose May selection this was brought home to me the troubling insight that my views on this, umm, great novel diverge radically from general opinion.
This is the War of Irish Independence, it's not going to be pretty), so the motor gets put into overdrive, there is a huge crashing of the gears and we move into history as farce.
Nor should it be, for goodness' sake, this was a war of tit for tat atrocities.
As far as I could tell, no horses were injured or killed in the telling of this tale of colonial Ireland just after the First World War. The same can not be said for the hundreds of cats who gave their lives: in one singular marmalade-colored instance, a retributive throttling for assaulting an old woman's hat; dozens more somehow unable to outwit some very bad slapstick shooting; and perhaps the remainder in a final conflagration, although, who knows, maybe they landed on their paws from a three-story leap.
. ."The tragic and complicated nature of colonial Ireland, with its added religious squabble, was well-told here.
Many reviews already written of this fine novel set during the time of "The Troubles" in Ireland.
Events play out at the Majestic Hotel owned by the delightfully eccentric Spencer family.
Major Brendan Archer a casualty of the Great War finds himself unwittingly involved in the inhabitants of the Majestic and it's guests.I found this initially a difficult book to get into but have to admit that the plot and characters did grow on me and I ended up thoroughly enjoying it.
A gently moving novel that does have an impact long after completing.
I enjoyed the style and delivery.
"Troubles" is the story of Ireland 1919 to 1921, the Irish and the Anglo-Irish and the British, and how they ultimately can't all live together under the terms of the past.
He doesn't recall more than polite conversations during leave.From there the alternately comic and tragic story moves with the "troubles" that began shortly after the war, in 1919, as the Irish moved to eject the British and work for home rule.
Sometimes the sadness and terror of peoples' lives is horrible.The story becomes darker as time progresses and the Republicans make more daring raids on British interests and people.
Through much of my reading of this, especially as the story progresses and gets darker, the refrain of Fun Boy Three's "The Lunatics (Have Taken Over the Asylum)" ran through my head.
In the novel, though, the lunatics haven't taken over the 'asylum,' 'they' have always run it, the craziness of the main so-called caretaker becoming more and more apparent as the "troubles' increase.
It's a bit long-winded and a bit repetitive at times, but I never wanted to stop reading it: the prose is that good and the imagery is always vivid, almost to excess.

I know that in order to attempt to appear intelligent I should pretend to love this book but I din't. It was well written, well researched, and an important topic. In my opinion it was so heavy laden with symbolism that the people seemed stilted. At about 500 pages it seemed over long especially considering how horribly sad the characters and circumstances were though I suppose it was true to life at that time.
It's very elusive and subtle, at first it's a humorous social political historical novel but then it morphs into something completely darker and surreal.
The hotels in an advanced state of decay mirroring English rule, I'm not going to give plot details away.This wonderful novel has a cool ironic chatty style, the whole story has a half real and a half dreamlike state.
It has the hallucinatory clarity of a dream in a confusing surrealistic world.Until recently the novel was unjustly neglected and remained a hidden gem.
(And you'll never look at your cat the same way after reading the conflagration scene!) My only criticism is that the political views of some characters tend to sound, at times, not always, like set speeches intended to provide audience with summaries of Irish nationalism and British imperialism in the 20s, but that may be only because I've read much of this history elsewhere, and so it sounded a bit canned.
They never last at all." While this morose thought may sum up one of Farrell's themes, rest assured that his characters are anything but "insubstantial" and that this superb novel should last a long time, even longer than it takes for the Majestic Hotel to fall apart.
Major Brendan Archer travels to Ireland in search of love but only finds heartbreak and a whole lot more besides.
He falls in love with a dilapidated hotel that has seen better decades whatever about days!
He refuses to leave even though the British are unwelcome.
Set against the background of a backdrop of a dark period in Ireland’s history; Troubles sums up the feelings amongst the people even if they are not expressed in any great length.
The Major like any soldier refuses to be cowed by the I.R.A and other forces working against him.
The other residents evacuating the hotel before he does!
Farrell does a nice job of bringing life and interest to the old dowager, even as her carpets conceal rotted flooring, cats & rats rule the upper, rainsoaked stories, and the masonry goes flying off the roof.
Farrell needed to do a much more synchronized account of how all this can be happening at the same time, how it somehow escapes the notice of the guests.
In the end this is a complicated story even with Farrell's simplifications, and the modern reader will find lots of worthy period detail woven into the compelling storyline & atmosphere.
___________________________________This particular edition contains a really annoying "Introduction" by John Banville that manages to spoil at least TWO major plot points.
This book is one of those that I was actually embarrassed to read on the subway because in at least one passage I started laughing so hard that I started annoying the lady next to me, and had to get up out of my seat. A really wonderful book full of brilliant prose.
6.5/10So meh that I can barely summon a meh-ness rating for it, and no desire to write a review. Maybe the satire just isn't hitting me right now, but to use Farrell's own words, "I plunged the depths of boredom" while trying to read this. To be fair, I skimmed most of it after the first 100 pages, looking for connection. Couldn't find one. To add another element of fairness: it's very rare that satire works for me. Unless it's exceptional, like Swift, it's wasted on me. Booker-or-bust: mostly on the bust side for me.
A totally delicious read, a combination of history and irony.
The Majestic, a metaphor to the crumbling British Empire, is a crumbling and surreal place itself, full of old ladies, cats and a wildly spreading jungle of plants.
The Majestic to me is a metaphorical laboratory of oblivion, a shelter from reality, strangely attractive in spite of its decaying state.
I am definitely looking forward to read the following parts of the trilogy!
This took a long time to get going- the first third or so lacks much direction, and the direction it has is disappointingly heavy handed: so there's this hotel in Ireland?
The NYRB cover is very misleading, though- like Bowen's 'The Last September,' this is a country house novel that happens to take place in the middle of a bloody uprising/oppression, rather than a novel about said uprising/oppression- emphasis on the *country house.* The best parts have almost nothing to do with the Troubles; there are tremendous set-pieces, particularly the hotel's final ball.
His apparent fickle-mindedness towards the ‘Shinner’ and Unionist causes is appropriate for his character and situation, but given to us in surprising turns of dialogue unsupported by much in the way of internal exploration.
When so much of the Major’s mind is explored on other subjects, it’s a puzzling elision.
And then there’s Sarah, the Major’s love interest, a beautiful crippled firebrand of a Catholic girl who makes a slow recovery throughout the novel while tempting and tormenting the Major’s affections.
She’s a substantial presence in the first half of the novel but later fades too obviously into symbolism – the incarnation of ‘troubled’ Ireland herself.

I expected to find Troubles hard-going, after all it is an old historical novel and they bore me, but it wore down my defences by being relentlessly amusing. A wry depiction of the bizarre lifestyle of the eccentric residents of a disintegrating hotel in a disintegrating corner of a disintegrating empire, there are echoes of both Cold Comfort Farm and Catch-22, and if you are looking for a missing link between Gormenghast and Fawlty Towers then this is it. Felinophiles be warned though: some cats will be harmed during the reading of this book.
Funny, tragic, occasionally dragging yes, but thoroughly absorbing as if a grand old novel had been salted with a good dose of modern comic timing. Reading the second in the trilogy now, and it is tighter and better still. Will be sad when this done
My first thought in opening this book was "why do so many characters in novels have the surname Archer?" Here is Brendan Archer, and then there is Newland Archer in Wharton's The Age of Innocence and Isabel Archer in James' The Portrait of a Lady.
The decline of British rule in Ireland is told here alongside the decline of the Majestic Hotel in Kilnalough.
When the book opens, the decline of both is already well underway and we simply watch it happen.
Farrell occasionally gives us news articles to tell what is happening elsewhere in Ireland and also elsewhere in the British empire.
They should certainly read his trilogy of books depicting the dismantling of the British Empire.The Siege Of KrishnapurTroublesThe Singapore Grip(I read all three in the 1990's not the 1970's, but don't remember the correct dates.)Farrell's books have their settings at pivotal moments in the history of empire, but he is more concerned with the dismantling of the ideas and preconceptions of empire.
You can experience the shock of the ardent unionist when he realises that the British establishment doesn't want him in their club anywhere near as much as he wants to belong to it, in Troubles.Nobody I have read does this sort of thing better (not even Coetzee).
Perhaps the best book I've ever read. Hilarious, bleak, surreal and so very real, this absurd look at the crumbling British empire through the eyes of a shell-shocked upper class twit at a once glorious hotel (the Majestic" in Ireland on the eve of the "Troubles" was impossible to put down. Anyone who loves literature will love this book.
"...And everyone would climb the stairs chuckling to their rooms and dream of aces and knaves and a supply of trumps that would last for ever and ever, one trump after another, an invincible superiority subject to neither change nor decay nor old age, for a trump will always be a trump, come what may."Fitting words to describe the attitude of the Anglo-Irish characters in this book, who hang onto their decrepit Majestic in hopes of riding out the titular troubles.
Superficially, Farrell's witticisms and turns of phrase provide a rich supply of comic relief in a decaying, barren old hotel populated by cats, old ladies, and the rotten remnant of the Anglo Irish Ascendancy.
It is set in the Anglo-Irish War, though I would struggle to call it a 'war novel'.
The war itself only becomes blatently obvious in the last 100 pages or so.On a deeper level, its a clever deconstruction of colonial Ireland, which is in the process of decay - and as this book illustrates, has been for a century.
The best book I've read so far this year.
Indeed, despite the vivid description of the decaying hotel and the terrible service provided for its guests, I found myself wishing, as I did on first reading, that I could visit the place and stay myself.On the strength of my reread, I've bought the other two books in the trilogy, and look forward to comparing their quality with the highly enjoyable content in this timeless classic!

