https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34449.The_Makioka_Sisters
Let me hide at least a petalIn the sleeve of my flower-viewing robe,That I may remember the spring.  Five years ago, we planted two trees in our enclosed garden, a gingko biloba, which bright yellow unique fan-shaped leaves beguile in autumn , and a cherry tree, for its refined and daintily colored blossoms in spring. Although some of our relatives at first criticized the choice of the Gingko, skeptical and worried about its stature in our miniature garden, the mighty Gingko is now firmly estab
The transient nature of the soft white-pink petals intensifies the delicate beauty, bringing sadness too, reminding of mortality.With The Makioka Sisters Tanizaki wrote an eulogy to impermanence, soaked in the Japanese cultural and aesthetical concept and Zen mood of Mono no aware, a sense of melancholic resignation and sorrow for loss.Called Tanizaki’s magnum opus, the novel chronicles the lives of four sisters belonging to a wealthy Osaka merchant family in decline, set in the years preceding WWII, 1936-1941.
The Nazi alliance is represented by the friendship between the Makiokas and the Stlotz, their German neighbors, but Tanizaki avoids issuing direct value judgments on history or glorifying an objectionable social system that severely limited the free will of women and remains a dignified paradigm of discretion, infusing the required tone in the story to allow the reader to reach his own conclusions.
I got my thoughts together and sat down to write what I hoped would be a pretty good review based on the fact that I loved the book and had written a few notes while reading the book.
But then I read my friend Ilse's review.
BUT WAIT, I would like to tell you a little about what this book brought to mind while I was reading it (if you're not already reading Ilse's review).
What struck me about The Makioka Sisters was that the story was strongly centred on an extended family and its struggles with that change.
Ancak bu sözcük aynı zamanda Japon söz sanatlarında; kiraz çiçeklerinin baharda dökülmesini karla karıştırmış gibi algılamaya verilen bir isimde.
İngilizce'nin matematiği belki H.Murakami, Kobo Abe gibi yazarları birebir karşılıyor olabilir; fakat dili sade ve lirik olan Tanizaki, Kawabata gibi yazarları karşılayamıyor bence.
O yüzden bu baskının çevirisinin çok fazlasıyla tatmin edici olduğunu söyleyebilirim.Tanizaki'nin eserlerinde ağırlıklı eğilim, insanın cinsel olarak doğal olarak sahip olduğu saplantıların incelemesidir.
Tanizaki, modern Japon romancılarının çoğunda olduğu gibi, karamsar bir yazar değildir.
Burada o yemeğe sanki bende katılmış ve iki kültürünün birbirine zıt giden bir çok ayrıntısını kendi gözlerim ile gözlemlemiş gibi oldum.Japon Edebiyatı'nın en önemli eserlerinden biri olan Nazlı Kar'ı şiddetle öneriyorum.
They do not know it yet, but the world is changing into a place with no time for their old methodical approach to life, and their survival will be completely dependent on their ability to adapt.The book is a prime example of characters not appreciating in the slightest what they have until it is gone.
As the reader knows, soon after the end of the novel Japan would descend into chaos and misery as the war made itself known, something that the author himself was completely aware of.
1930 ların Japonyası nasıldı, Japonya o yıllarda dünyaya nasıl bakardı, Japonyada insanlar nasıl yaşar ,hem gelenekçi hem yenilikçi nasıl oluyorlar gibi sorulara cevap bulduran, bu sitede bir arkadaşın yorumunda gördüğüm tavsiyeye uyarak bir harita ve not defteri ile japon müzikleri eşliğinde okurken orada yaşıyormuş gibi hissettiğim ama birtakım sorunlar nedeniyle uzuunn vadede okuduğum güzel japon kitabı
The last sentence of the book (and this isn't revealing anything) is about one of the character's diarrhea.I have only read one other Tanizaki book but I gather that he frequently deals with obsession and this book is obsessively mundane.
In small doses, it's truly stunning but after awhile I just didn't care that one of the sisters couldn't get a husband to save her life or that the youngest one was tramping around.And admittedly this is my own problem, not a fault of the book's but I also had a hard time ignoring the fact that the book was published (in parts I believe) in the years immediately following WWII and takes place in the years immediately preceding the war and yet there is very little talk of the war in the book.
This is one of Junichiro Tanizaki's major novels covering a family of women in early 20th C Japan. It is beautifully written with extremely well fleshed out characters and an entrancing plot. It is probably my favourite Tanizaki book.
“The cherries in the Heian Shrine…of all the cherries in Kyoto, were the most beautiful. Now that the great weeping cherry in Gion was dying and its blossoms were growing paler each year, what was left to stand for the Kyoto spring if not the cherries in the Heian Shrine?” I really enjoyed this Japanese classic. In it, four Kyoto sisters attempt to navigate the waves of change that are rapidly engulfing Japan prior to WWII. The Makiokas are an old, wealthy Osaka family, that soon find themselv
With two unmarried sisters on their hands, the two oldest and most traditional sisters struggle to find a suitable husband for Yukiko, while simultaneously trying to quash the independent streak in Taeko, the youngest.A gentle paced book, Tanizaki slowly unveils the comings and going of the two households.
Tanizaki probably had more to write, and I feel strongly about that because what author would end a novel on this note:“Yukiko’s diarrhea persisted through the twenty-sixth, and was a problem on the train to Tokyo.”
The Makioka sisters represent a culture on the brink, struggling to retain it's traditional identity in the face of change both internal and international.
The modern world is coming whether this family wants it or not.This is not a novel for those looking for adventure or action.
It's for those who want character, good writing, a picture of a society on the cusp of change and a family coping with old traditions in this world.
I continue to be surprised by the wonderful Asian writing I'm discovering this year.
Una novela maravillosa, que me ha recordado en su estilo a otras grandes historias como 'La edad de la inocencia', 'La saga de los Forsyte' o a las de Jane Austen. Eso sí, al más puro estilo oriental, pausado y extremadamente bello, poniendo atención a cada sentimiento.De las novelas japonesas que he leído, sin duda se encuentra ya entre mis preferidas.
Simplemente maravilloso. No olvidaré nunca estas semanas pasadas en compañía de la familia Makioka. El tiempo parecía suspendido durante la lectura y solo existía para mi la vida entre las paredes de la casa familiar de Ashiya, los vagones de tren conectando Osaka y Tokio y, por supuesto, la cita anual para ver la floración de los cerezos en los jardines de Kioto. Cinco estrellas más que merecidas.Gracias, gracias y gracias por descubrírmelo mi querida Magrat <3
In its creation of beauty out of sadness it can be compared to another family saga, The Maias (1888), by the Portuguese master Eça de Queiroz (1845-1900).Why is this long book, largely concerned with trivial family procedures, one of the finest novels written?
The language (translation) is so smooth and flowing, the characters and situations so gentle and muted, yet precise and meaningful, that reading the book is like seeing the universe in a drop of water - you see, which is moving, and awareness of where and how you see brings amazement and then a real pleasure.In this beautiful book the characters have a greater degree of reality than many real people - Tanizaki is a great master of characterisation.
Review to come later. Lots to think about this one. Loving observations of social life, perhaps lurid details of the lives of women, a society caught in the middle of a transition, the slow decline of a family as seen through its finances and health. All this written in the mid-1940s! It's astonishing that the heavy-handed government of the time would even let the book be serialized.
Jun'ichirō Tanizaki... Genelde Japon edebiyatı, yazarları pek tanınmıyor. Ki çok büyük bir kayıp. Jun'ichirō Tanizaki muhteşem bir yazar.Nazlı Kar ya da orijinal adıyla "Sasameyuki" geleneksel dünyadan çağdaş dünyaya geçişi yansıtan ve dönemine ışık tutan gerçek bir başyapıt. Tanizaki 1930'ların Japonyasını, çağdaş dünyaya ayak uydurmaya çalışırken geleneklerinden de kopamayan Japon insanını çok güzel yansıtmış. Makioka kardeşlerin bir erkeğin gözünden yansıyan ve hayatın ta kendisi olan hikâyesini seveceğinize inanıyorum.Çok severek okudum. Her kelimesinde, her satırında, her sayfasında hikâyede kayboldum ve çok büyük keyif aldım.Makioka kardeşlerden Sachiko'nun evlendiği gün yazdığı şiir..."Bugün yine esvaplarımı seçerkenBitip gitti günEvlenip giderken nedense hüzünlüyüm"
Το διάβασα σε 5 μέρες . Αυτό .
She is quite a traditional, conservative Japanese woman, letting her older sisters and their husbands determine who her future husband is to be, never seeking the independent life that her younger sister has.It was fascinating to learn just how traditional Osaka society at the time was.
It is gentle in its depiction of Japanese traditions vs the inevitable creeping modernization and westernization of society, the Makioka sisters representative of the old families, struggling to hold on to the last vestiges of their good name.
Durante mucho tiempo pensé en darle tres estrellas, pero ya hacia el final me había encariñado con los personajes y sus anécdotas, y ha terminado por ganarme.
Las tres hermanas Makioka son extrañas y peculiares, con sus raras manías y su forma de ser a veces extravagante, pero al final no puedes evitar sentir cariño por todas ellas.
Y como todo lo japonés, esconde mucho más de lo que parece en la superficie, y es trabajo del lector ir descubriéndolo poco a poco.Una novela delicada y costumbrista que guarda cierto toque de humor sutil y nos habla de un mundo que, en su mayor parte, ya no existe.
Its overall impact, however, belies the quiet exterior: the internal emotional drama builds up almost inexorably, and becomes more compelling as one reads...In a sense, there is a feeling of loss; almost an elegy on the fading aristocratic way — yet life goes on, and it does so precisely in the attention to the little details, sometimes exquisite, sometimes irritating, but which all have the appropriate rituals and rationalisations to deal with them, no matter what.
In a sense it is similar to two other great novels of the loss of a way of life: Lampedusa's 'The Leopard' (Sicily's aristocratic past) and of course Proust's 'Remembrance of Things Past' (France's 'belle epoque').
Tanizaki has a delicate sensibility all his own, and his ability to make the incredibly complex, sensitive world of upper class Japanese courtship and sibling relations not only comprehensible but also engaging, is remarkable.
I became weirdly hooked on the lives of the four sisters and everyone in their social orbit.
I felt like I was living in this book for a while, amidst a quiet, old culture trying to at best preserve and at worst compromise on a hugely complicated set of social traditions in the face of a confusing, leveling modernity.
Tanizaki builds this world and its people up slowly and compellingly.
However, these ladies might as well be living in a different century as well as a different hemisphere — their daily rituals and cultural traditions were out of another world.
For instance, it’s a disgrace to the brothers-in-law that their sister-in-law is still unmarried, because it’s their responsibility to find a suitable husband for her.
I found the rituals and minutiae that fill the sisters’ relatively empty days to be quite interesting, but even more interesting is the contrast between their lives and the modern world that seems to exist completely outside them.
Nothing much really happens in the novel and something as quotidian as a character catching the flu is treated as a major event in the novel-but therein lies the beauty and uniqueness behind this novel.
In part an exploration of the emotional inter-play between four very different sisters and in part a elegy to the now lost world of Japanese high society, with its cold formalities, calmness and reflective nature, Tanizaki is able to capture the lost world of inter-war Osaka and the foibles of all the main characters-from the impetuous and slightly childish Sachiko, to the irreverent Taeko and serene Yukiko, Tanizaki brilliantly draws the reader in on their world of tea ceremonies, marriage proposals and cherry blossoms.
Tanizaki wrote The Makioka Sisters in the late '40s, amid the rubble and chaos of postwar Japan.
the Makiokas live a life of idle wealth and appearance-keeping, constantly fretting about the youngest sister's Westernized ways and the loss of respect for old Osaka families.
Throughout the book, we get glimpses that war is on its way.
I'm not sure how I feel about that-- perhaps I would have liked to see some glimpse of military action-- but I am certainly glad that he didn't go on to include the war.
After the father's death, the head of the family role is taken by the husband of the first sister, who took the Makioka name.
The husband of the second eldest sister similarly formally joined the Makioka family and took its name.
I read Mishima's The Sound of Waves in between this book, and I could tell the setting is after the Makioka Sisters, from the clothes the characters wear!
The decline of the Makioka family seems to reflect the decaying of old Japan.I reckon less people finish this book than the ones starting it because of the thickness, which is a shame because I think the whole book is a beauty.
Un libro para degustar al mismo ritmo que la prosa de Tanizaki: suavemente, despacito, paladeando los ambientes, las palabras...
Thus, I amusingly regarded it as a kind of sleeping medicine and it sometime did induce sleepiness after reading such formidable descriptions.One of the reasons in reading it is that I came across an excerpt entitled, "The Firefly Hunt", one of the novel's famous passages, in an oldish brownish paperback "Modern Japanese Literature" (Tuttle, 1972) compiled and edited by Donald Keene, surprisingly, with its twelfth printing!
Disappointingly, its first two sentences in the first paragraph translated by the same translator has a bit different wording as follows:1) 1972 edition: It was a strange house, of course, but it was probably less the house than sheer exhaustion that kept Sachiko awake.
I had to read this book for class.
By the end of this book, you might as well be on the train with Yukiko.And finally, and perhaps best: those exciting bits DO increase as you work through the book, including many unexpected and wonderful scenes.
For me, after all my hurried efforts, forcing through this book to write my essay in time, this ending was like a slap in the face.
It's, "Yukiko's diarrhea persisted through the twenty-sixth, and was a problem on the train to Tokyo."OK, so...it's not like one sentence ruins the whole book.
this book tells the story of 4 sisters growing up in Osaka, Japan.
Each of them has their own struggles, problems and faces and deals them in very different ways.
Although this book is not very slow paced, and in fact not much happens, I was immeresed into the story of these four sisters throughout the whole, quite lenghty novel.
The writing is beautiful, the story intense, many things are left unsaid, but hints and actions indicate pereserverement of these four sisters.
While you might sympathise with one sister, another reader might be totally of a different opinion.
Tanizaki tells these women's stories in thoughtful, observant prose while making no assumptions of the reader, creating a beautiful but isolated world with a tinge of sadness to its edges.You have to be prepared with patience for this drama, as it is slow-paced, but that doesn't detract from its admirable beauty as a piece of fiction.
It is a glimpse into historical Japan through the eyes of someone who recalls it both fondly and longingly, who laments the problems of the era but not quite as much as the encroaching issues of modern times.In retrospect, a wistful family drama is sort of unusual for Tanizaki, who is known for decadent, semi-erotic works.
The English version of this book is absolutely engrossing and beautifully written - I am extremely tempted to seek out Tanizaki's original manuscript and read the Japanese and English versions side by side.
To me, the story of the four Makioka sisters in early 20th century Japan is as addictive and well-crafted as any Jane Austen novel, but to me, Tanizaki's portrayal of the characters' very human flaws is softer, much more nuanced, and pretty well devoid of social commentary.
And this is the magic of the book, to me - he is objective, yet the social dynamics of this once-revered, old-money Osaka family and their daily dramas are intensely vivid and provocative.
