https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/939709.Rogue_Moon
Under the supervision of a brilliant researcher, Dr. Hawks, it's being investigated, with the help of a new, Star Trek-style transporter technology which allows men to beam to the moon.
"Luckily," because the artifact on the moon is an enigmatic "American Ninja Warrior"-style obstacle course, and men keep dying.
Budrys uses his premise to do a lot of implicit editorializing about "types of men," "relations between the sexes" and whatnot, by contrasting Hawks (and the program administrator) with Barker, and their girlfriends with each other.
Really not what I was expecting to be honest.Set in 1959 it is the story of a scientist who sends a man to the moon to investigate a mysterious alien construct (Big Dumb Object ) picked up by a satellite photo.
The only snag is that the alien construct mysteriously kills him before he gets very much investigation done, so the scientist finds a man - Al Barker - who has a special mindset to duplicate and transmit to the moon.
On my list of "All Time Favorite" novels.
Algis Budrys was a phenomenal writer who wrote highly intelligent science fiction during a time when much of the SF being published was of the stereotypical "spaceships and aliens" variety.
Quality science fiction at its most basic is usually about ideas and the human condition.
Well this book screams about the human condition and what drives people to explore and confront the world around them.
This, along with Beyond Apollo by Barry Malzberg and Flowers for Algernon by Daniel Keyes, are examples of psychological science fiction.
Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1961)
Nepaisant to, kad ši knyga įtraukta į visokius geriausių, įtakingiausių, klasikinių ir kitus panašius sci-fi literatūros sąrašus, man ji pasirodė nykus, nuobodus, neaiškaus siužeto kūrinys.
Nelabai net supratau, ką autorius norėjo juo papasakoti, ir kodėl sci-fi kūrinyje apie mėnulį ir ateivių labirintą mėnulis ir ateivių labirintas lieka net ne antram, o kokiam ketvirtam plane, o pirmus tris planus užima Coelho'iška filosofija ir, pardon my french, nuolatinis betikslis visų veikėjų matavimasis kurio didesnis ir kuris sugebės toliau prieš vėją myžtelt.
Skaityt siūlau nebent iš smalsumo, bet už kokybę ir malonumą, arba tiksliau, jų nebuvimą, liksit atsakingi tik patys.
Überraschend intensives SF-Kammerspiel.
published and set in 1960 before we went to the moon, this sci-fi tells of space exploration.
Some kind of implied NASA agency has created a cloning device that transports a pilot's double up to the moon to check things out.
The astronaut can sense what his clone is experiencing.
And there's an entity up there that keeps killing clones.
One would think, right?And the pilot that they rope into doing it next is a real tough guy/thrill seeker.
Very little of it deals with the ghostly killing cloud on the moon.
I think that's a 2.5 rating.
The science speculation in this book, the mysterious object on the moon and the teleportation technology, is seriously chilling.
Unfortunately most of this book is about some bitter, obsessed middle-aged men and their pissing contests and whatever it means to be a "real man" in the 1960's.
There are two female characters: one is a one-dimensional femme fatale who only stays with real men, and the other is nothing but an opportunity for one of the male characters to talk about his feelings because he can't do that to other male characters.
the thing i like about this book is that my brain can't contain it.
sometimes it makes me feel like i'm a little kid who had wandered out of bed in the middle of the night and is eavesdropping on his parents' party.
this book just totally rocks, is all i can say.
it's like a black and white neo-realist thing...
i think probably starring lee j.
the good girl is probably donna reed or something.
anyway, i think it is safe to say that they don't write them like this anymore.
I just chose to read all her replies to him sarcastically, like when he's all telling her about his childhood and then:'Please go on telling me about yourself,' she said.NO REALLY THIS IS FASCINATING PLEASE CONTINUE.Later:'Do you want to know what it is with you and women?'Hawks blinked at her.
'I'm glad you feel that way,' he said slowly, 'but I don't think that's true.'Sorry, Elizabeth, I'm with him on this one.'Cobey'll be very upset,' Hawks was saying, lost in thought.
Another man I know.'YES THIS IS DEFINITELY YOU TREATING HER LIKE A PERSON.Then there's this gem:'Women--' he said earnestly, 'women have always fascinated me.
Ed Hawks, who's heading this exploration of the artefact, has come up with a mind blowing way of keeping people alive when they enter it, if only he can find someone who can keep their sanity after experiencing their own death...My main problem with this book is there were pointless digressions as superfluous characters were introduced leading to many pointless conversations that did little or nothing to move the plot along or develop the characters that were central to the story.
You know how all the characters in the Winnie The Pooh stories are apparently displaying various types of mental disorder?
Well, this book is kind of doing the same thing.
A person with training in the field of psychology could have a fine time going through the book diagnosing the conditions of the cold almost psychopathic Dr Edward Hawks, the self-destructive machismo of Al Barker, the compulsively manipulatory Claire, the deluded narcissism of Connington….
Each character is a mass of physical and mental ticks, all detailed in the text against a background of a science fiction story that asks the reader to confront some big questions and still tells an exiting tale of a mystery on the moon.
Though set on the Moon (of the title), its core, as Graham Sleight points out in his introduction, is more about death and the way that people approach it and deal with it.There’s less space opera and more sociological analysis, which can throw some readers off-balance, expecting more flash and bang.
Miller’s A Canticle for Leibowitz as a seminal book at a time of change and growing maturity in SF, Rogue Moon is a thought-provoking, even if unpleasant novel, that deserves the over-used term of ‘classic’.
Gods, just lost my brilliant review... In summary1. Superficially a SF2. Really an essay on what it means to be me3. Been there, done that4. Know what it means to be me5. It can have only 1 ending (this the SF part)6. I was bored
Theseus auf dem Mond"Projekt Luna" ist eines der Bücher, das auf der Liste der 100 besten SF-Romane des Magazins "Wunderwelten" stand.
Tatsächlich ist es ja manchmal so, dass man sich während des Lesens wieder an Teile erinnert - dieser Roman war komplett neu für mich (erneut).
Wie auch immer, "Rogue Moon" (der englische Originaltitel ist, wie so oft, viel passender zur Geschichte eines geradezu menschenfressenden Gebäudes auf der dunklen Seite des Monds) zeigt für mich zwei Dinge.
Erstens, dass SF eine großartige Ideenliteratur ist, die Gedanken aufgreift, sie extrapoliert und Fragen aufwirft, die seit 1960 immer noch aktuell und stellenswert sind.
Written about a decade before we landed on the moon, Budrys still had hope for finding wonders in the near-Earth orbit.These old science fiction writers also had a habit of squandering their talent.
Budrys tries really hard to make this a psychological drama - so much so that the science fiction story is in the background for most of the telling.
So what we readers get is a tension-filled story with characters all vying for some sort of relational supremacy all while something interesting with science and space goes on in the background.Some neat ideas; a neat scenario, some strong though largely uninteresting characters.
"Projekt Luna" bekommt leider viele schlechte Bewertungen, was meiner Meinung nach daran liegen könnte, dass man nach dem Klappentext etwas völlig anderes erwartet.
Es liegt wohl an unserer Erwartungshaltung, dass wir von einem Buch über ein Labyrinth auf dem Mond, was für alle Besucher tödlich ist, eine spannungs-geladene Expedition erwarten.
Das Buch ist aber kein Action-Roman aus dem 21.
Meiner Ansicht nach wird das aber durch die Charaktere und Dialoge wett gemacht, denn um die geht es hauptsächlich.
Projekt Luna war daher für mich eine Überraschung auf der ganzen Linie, aber keine schlechte :D
Abandoned at halfway mark. Too much male posturing (who's a 'real' man and more macho bull). The actual SF part would fit into a short story. The rest read like a male soap opera and was very dated. This is just not for me.
The central gimmick is a thunderingly good one, but the action is highly abstract and largely offstage; the real drama is a series of bizarre, tense conversations, where the cast of archetypical characters expound their various visions of man's place in the universe.
I don't like super-genius characters who pick up on the smallest cues and analyze every situation to the finest details, who battle the universe to a draw with the sheer power of their mighty male brains; that's Heinlein, or the recent TV series Sherlock, neither of which I'm keen on.
He's a bridge to later New Wave writers like Philip K Dick, who dropped that shell of machismo completely.A very strange book, but a very good one.
It's a brilliant story but it is somewhat marred by the author's attempt to sex it up with characters you'd expect to see in a James Bond film.Otherwise, it's a beautiful meditation on death and human identity.
Unfortunately, the maze-like object is a sort of obstacle course that kills its subjects when they fail to navigate the maze perfectly.So one of the main themes Budrys addresses here is the experience of death.
What if we could experience death and come back to tell the story?
Another question Budrys addresses is the identity of the "duplicate" and the effect of having one's personality replicated.
Rogue Moon was written in 1960, long before the moon landing. I probably read it in the mid-70s, and can only recall one critical element of the story: an alien artifact discovered on the moon is, in effect, a lethal funhouse labyrinth. Spoiler, I suppose: Scientists want to understand its secrets, but it kills whoever enters. The solution: they have a way of recording the explorer's thoughts as they enter and are inevitably killed -- and then the knowledge of how they got as far as they did, an
The solution: they have a way of recording the explorer's thoughts as they enter and are inevitably killed -- and then the knowledge of how they got as far as they did, and clues to how to avoid death at that point might allow the next explorer to make it just a little farther.
(Wikipedia reminds me the gizmo was a matter duplicator, which essentially creates a backup copy of the subject, who then is kept in sensory deprivation which allows him to share the experiences of his doppelgänger.)This is science fiction as a horror story: each iteration of the explorer has to climb over his own dead bodies, sometimes gruesomely killed, knowing that he will die just a little further along.
Aquellos que busquen una aventura en un lugar misterioso, que se olviden de esta novela.Los fanáticos de la ciencia ficción hard la encontrarán flojita.Los que esperen encontrar un viaje iniciático como en ''el hombre en el laberinto'' de Silverberg, que busquen en otra parte.Budrys es un buen escritor. La novela comienza de modo interesante, con buenos personajes, pero las páginas van pasando y pasando y sólo tienes fricciones o acercamientos de los mismos hasta que la ciencia ficción vuelve para el último 15% de la novela.Creo que deberían leerla los estudiantes de psicología...
Really disappointed after hearing so many good things about this book. Boring unlikable characters, ridiculous science and an almost incoherent plot. Too much of the book is taken up with a soap opera like melodrama with three male characters engaged in a pissing contest to impress a female character. This whole section of the book is totally irrelevant to the purported plot of the story. A short novel which should have been a quick easy read became a hard slog to get through. I doubt I will read any more of Budrys' work.
Have to say I really hated everybody in this book. Too little of the story is about the SF-ness idea, maybe 1/10th. The other 9/10ths are a boozy, alcoholic examination of machismo, in a pissing contest of the three male leads. Women treated weirdly. Hate this book.
The original suffers extreme mental trauma from the strangeness of the artifact and from undergoing their twin copies’ deaths, and many would-be investigators go from “right stuff” hotshots into broken husks with damaged minds.Hawks is running out of volunteers, and the Navy is growing reluctant to fund the project, having sent several men into the labyrinth, with progress inching along death by death.
More time is spent with the philosophizing Hawks than on the Moon; the alien artifact remains a mysterious symbol until the last chapter of the novel, at which point the themes begin to coalesce.
Rogue Moon instead uses the alien artifact and matter transmitters as metaphors to examine life and death.
I suspect I would probably have much preferred that version.If the soap opera melodrama is ignored it is not a bad book and it does raise one or two interesting subjects.
What wasn’t so funny was the misogyny; whilst I am used to putting up with this in these older books, I’m not particularly comfortable with it and this book comes up with one corker:“What bothered me was that here were these other intelligent organisms [women], in the same world with men, and there had to be a purpose for that intelligence.
And yet when Dr. Edward Hawks wants to adjust the temperature in his office, he fumbles with the knobs on a recalcitrant window unit.I don't know that I have ever read a novel where the characters were so uniformly belligerent to one another.
Unfortunately those reconstituted explorers go insane, having experienced their own death.So we have a ruthless scientist who must act like a general sending men on missions from which they will not return.
I would like to know more of what sophisticated readers, busy adjusting the knobs on their window units, made of it in 1959.
What will happen if he finds a volunteer who himself loves death so much as the formation on Moon loves to kill?
So, in case of Barker we have 2 of him, one on Moon who lived not much time, the other on Earth who may continue his usual life.
Of course, it also means that earthbound Barker can be sent to moon again, and by this way repeating the procedure.
Each time Barker goes to Moon he lives a bit longer.
In the end Pawks decides to go to Moon with Barker.
This time they were not killed, they lived.
Probably my favorite science fiction novel of all time, discovered on a basement bookshelf with the rest of my father's paperback collection.A scientific team is able to send astronauts to the moon by teleporting doppelgängers and maintaining a brief psychic link between the original and the duplicate.
On the moon, the explorers discover a mysterious alien artifact that kills them in inevitable, ghastly ways, driving their earthbound duplicates insane.
I think it's important to remember that that was the style of popular fiction of the time.
The themes of human accomplishment through adversity and personal responsibility are more important and give the book a wisdom and depth that transcends most of its contemporaries.
Rogue Moon is a surprising book that is not what I expected, yet kept me eagerly turning pages late into the night.
This story is not so much an exploration of an alien artifact on the moon, but, rather, an exploration of the human condition and how individuals approach life and death.
More importantly, in a universe that can seem nihilistic in the face of its fatalistic physical laws, Budrys explains how individual human experience is the one, unique thing which gives existence any meaning.Many passages from the book are echoing in my head and I strongly suspect I will be returning to reread it in the years to come.
Being about an early exploration of the moon makes it sci-fi, but the central portion of this book is primarily a character study.
Two female characters are paper thin, the second existing primarily so one of the main characters can talk about his feelings - something that wouldn't be done with other men apparently.I found the tech interesting and the morality discussion intriguing; I couldn't develop a solid interest in the psychological back and forth.
Reads primarily like a screenplay, and the right actor would make these passionate lines indeed - the actor in my head would have been dismissed during the audition.
