https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/195987.The_Heat_of_the_Day
This was a face with a gate behind it--a face that, in this photographic half-light, looked indoor and weathered at the same time; a face, if not without meaning, totally and forbiddingly without mood.”Harrison is willing to make a deal if Stella will leave Robert and become his girlfriend.
Harrison and Stella are both characters who could have stepped out of any Raymond Chandler or Dashiell Hammett novel.
She sleeps with men to feel closer to her husband who is away fighting in the war.
"They were the creatures of history, whose coming together was of a nature possible in no other day - the day was inherent in the nature." This novel reads like a riddle.
They engage in their own ideas of the universe, and from their individual perspective, they make sense.And as a reader, I follow the changing rules of the fiction and the history of the time: and I find myself smiling at the cunning of the locked-away "mad" people, at the naive "trust" of spies, at the unlikely allegiance one feels with the random "minor" characters who walk London's streets with just the same amount of life and passion as the major players of the show.
From the moment of waking you tasted the sweet autumn not less because of an acridity on the tongue and nostrils; and as the singed dust settled and smoke diluted you felt more and more called upon to observe the daytime as a pure and curious holiday from fear."Ostensibly The Heat of the Day is a spy novel, a wartime noir.
When, later, Stella visits Robert’s home she is horrified by the suffocating deceit of decorum she encounters in his mother and sister, a decorum that has already humiliated and unmanned Robert’s father.
This is a brittle, opaque story of a strange kind of `love triangle' set in the dark glamour of war-time London.
So much of this book is obscure, based around things not said, actions not taken, deeds which don't happen, and the book is haunted by ghosts: not just the dead, but the bombed churches which cannot ring their bells, and the dead souls of the living.London is familiar and yet also alien, and many of the characters are portrayed in a similar way.
You do feel the darkness of the city – whether the characters are using a torch to find their car, parked outside a station, stumbling around the city streets, or constantly dealing with the blackout, this is very much wartime London.During the war, Bowen herself was having an affair with Charles Ritchie, a Canadian diplomat.
If you are interested in the lives of authors in wartime London, you might enjoy, “The Love Charm of Bombs,” by Laura Feigel, which looks at Elizabeth Bowen, Graham Greene, Rose Macaulay, Hilde Spiel and Henry Yorke (writing as Henry Green), who lived in London during WWII.
This time, inspired by a new respect for Bowen gained from reading the Feigel, I came to the novel with the assumption that Bowen knew exactly what she was doing; if she did not succeed in writing a Graham Greene thriller, it was simply because she had no intention of doing so.
They were not alone, nor had they been from the start, from the start of love, writes Bowen when Stella and Robert sit down to a late supper; their time sat in the third place at their table.

We have love, loss, intense wartime drama set in London in the 1940's, mystery, intrigue, espionage, and about a dozen very interesting and different characters.
We first meet a mysterious character, Harrison, and a fun-loving woman named Louie.
Harrison is very preoccupied as he's set to meet another woman, Stella, to tell her that her lover, Robert, is selling secrets to the enemy.
From there, the book delves primarily into the lives of Stella; her son, Roderick; Robert; and Louie, but Harrison's past remains a mystery.
If the book got into the hands of a really good editor, I'm sure I would have enjoyed it much more.
Wartime London, hints of espionage and with lots of references to spirits and ghosts, albeit most often in a metaphorical sense. Buildings are also very significant: Stella's flat (which she changes when her life changes), Wistaria Lodge (odd care home), Mount Morris (Irish inheritance), Holme Dene (Robert's family home - to sell or not). Quite episodic: some chapters and characters quite separate from the main narrative, but Bowen's wonderful use of language shines though.
Bowen plunges us into the midst of intrigue, suspicion, awkward and uncomfortable relationships and conversations, furtiveness, as she reveals London in 1942, people dislocated by the war, mystery abounding, suggestions of espionage and the tensions of unwelcome demands and divided loyalties.
She does in fact precipitate a change in the relationship between Stella and Harrison.
Harrison, shadowing and cryptic as ever, assumes more importance as the story develops, but he remains always enigmatic.
Over and over again, one finds oneself reading and reading her crystalline prose:“Habit, of which passion must be wary, may all the same be the sweetest part of love.”“There is no such thing as being alone together.
A love story in the backdrop of world war two London, complete with mystery, espionage and a love triangle, the reader (especially, I imagine, those like me from Mars) would be distracted from following the plot by massive introspective digressions which seemingly come from nowhere and everywhere, as well as those highflown dialogues which make it sound as if the characters are communicating wordlessly through their minds, like aliens from outer space, and not verbalizing them through their mouths.Like this scene (among the many examples I can give!) where the principal female protagonist named Stella(Victor's widow, now Robert's lover, has a son--Roderick--in the British army) had just been brought to a bar by a friend who now leaves.
The story of a love affair in London during World War II, Bowen's narrative is full of slow, contemplative passages rich with sensuous, vivid detail about the world about us, touching on all the senses, like this passage from the first chapter:"In this state, drugged by the rainy dusk, she almost always returned with sensual closeness to seaside childhood; once more she felt her heels in the pudding-softness of the hot tarred esplanade or her bare arm up to the elbow in rain-wet tamarisk.
I particularly loved the description in Chapter Five of wartime London (especially as the setting is what caused me to want to read the book).
An exhausting psychological thriller. I think I still love Elizabeth Bowen; I did love the descriptions in this book, again, but I wish I had liked Stella a little bit more? Scenes with Ernestine and Muttikins hilariously sad. Think I need a break after 3 Bowens more or less in a row, but I'll go back.
The first is that I read some criticism by A.S. Byattabout it, and the second, someone put it in the free book pile at work.
(I love those piles).I'm not sure how I feel about this book.
Bowen is very similar to Byatt and Iris Murdoch in style.
This makes the prose rewarding.But the book is also maddening because for the longest time the two stories are not very connected.
Louie who the reader meets first disappers for a long amount of time.
Additionally because the prose is deep, the reader must dig.
You find you know quite a lot about them, especially their faults and oddities, not through direct descritpion, but through their own words, and even this very quickly and economically.
I'm thinking of Louie's friend Connie, of cousin Nettie, and particularly Richard's mother and sister.
There is one exchange about whether or not to sell the house which tells you everything you need to know about their failings as people, and Richard's family life growing up; more, really, than the actual description of Richard's family life growning up.More people should read her.
One of the best books I've read this year, hands down.
It's beautifully structured, and gorgeously written- not an easy read by any means, but not quite a Jamesian labyrinth either.
I can't really describe it, but the book is wise, and every other good adjective you can think of.
In hopes of what, then, was one led on, led on?
How long, looking back on it, it had lasted - that dogged, timid, unfaithfully-followed hope!" This is probably the perfect antidote to all the flag-waving and hurrahing and so on that surrounds the second world war, and maybe even our own petty little political squabbles.
Then later, Louie in reading the story of the inquest of Robert Kelway in the press, discovers that her new acquaintance, Stella, was ‘not virtuous.’ Louie muses, possibly seeking justifyication for new own behaviour, “ Virtue became less possible now it was shown impossible by Stella.”Chapter Five remains the best prose I have read as an evocation of that dangerous time of fractured lives and random love amongst the ruins, and now I have a more vivid sense of the very essence of my Mother who indeed lived and loved in war torn London.
I certainly don’t think she is easy – and this book was no quick read – but it was certainly worth the effort.Set in 1942 The Heat of the day primarily concerns Stella, her lover Robert and the shadowy Harrison.
At the start of the novel we see Harrison attending an outdoor concert in a park on a Sunday afternoon – he is forced into conversation by Louie a woman who is instantly interested in Harrison – despite being a married woman – Harrison contemplating a meeting with Stella is not interested in her.
A difficult novel in scope and style, but infinitely intelligent: part spy novel, part thriller, part failed romance -- although primarily a noir. The opening chapters are appropriately uncomfortable and stifling, as agent Harrison makes clear to Stella that her partner Robert has been involved in double dealings with the enemy, and that therefore all that remains is for them to work out a solution. From there, the novel expands to include flashbacks, other subplots and an expansive family context. Although sometimes it feels slightly bloated by descriptions and philosophical musings, it culminates in a highly satisfying ending.
This is a book very much of it's time and as such I found the language dense and at times difficult to penetrate. Bowen painted a picture of a tense, war time London where everyone mistrusted everyone else. The conversations were fractured and oblique and I found the characters difficult to invest emotionally in. Some of her descriptive prose at times was quite beautiful and touching but at other times I struggled to understand what was happening and if anything was true. It has left me with lots of questions but this isn't necessarily a bad thing!
Bettie's Books
We don't know enough about them to fully grasp their motivations, even after they try to explain themselves through dialogue with another character.
We face puzzles over and over again.Stella as a character is intelligent and loyal.
It makes sense that she would find nothing so off-putting about having a lover who is hiding great secrets.The book deserves to be read twice in order to pick up all its clues and understand it better.
Instead, I'm going to look for secondary sources about it in order to make better sense of what I just read.
I feel like I have personally triumphed over this book. Oh Bowen, when you are good, you are so very good, but when you are bad, you are awful.
This was my third Elizabeth Bowen venture and I quite enjoyed it. You can read my review of this one here: http://agiddything.booklikes.com/post...
This is one of those books you want to flip over and reread as soon as you finish it - there is so much there, it’s impossible to absorb it all in one go; I felt like I got maybe 80%.
I do feel like “The Heat of the Day” might’ve been a title foisted on her by her publishers.
It should be called something more like “The Unbearable Heaviness of Being”, as it grapples - primarily through internal monologues rendered in Bowen’s unique cadence - with a fundamental question of human existence: how to be.
Challenging read, but insightful, with some absolutely amazing prose. The story and characters lingered with me.
Bowen’s listed novels are, in order of publication•The Last September (1929);•To the North (1932); •The House in Paris (1935);•The Heat of the Day (1949);•A World of Love (1955); and•Eva Trout (1968) (This one was nominated for the Booker in 1970, but it baffled me when I read it in 2005 which put me off Bowen a bit.
Amongst all the losses – of friends, colleagues and loved ones; of family homes, cherished institutions and historic buildings; and of irreplaceable cultural artefacts – a half-finished novel might not seem so important to some, and yet if these chapters had been lost to the doodlebugs of 1944, (after the Allied Landings), a great novel would have been lost…The Heat of the Day begins with an image that is arresting for those of us reading it decades later.
A little strange to grasp in the beginning due to Bowen's writing style (double negatives all over) but once you're in you're in.
I had started the book back in November, but I gave up as I had to read a lot of other titles for lectures.
It's a brilliant story that makes you question war, politics and relationships.
It also makes you question which characters you should trust and which ones you shouldn't.
Themes are also challenged in this book, which reflect the mindset of society at the time - women do the things men can?
I haven't read other Bowen books as of yet, but I intend to.
There were so many things to dislike about this book; the chilly tone (or is that just British style?), unsympathetic characters and the droning on and on for pages about the description of a room, hardly any dialogue. When I realized that Death of the Heart is by the same author I took it off my to-read list.
The author excels in portraying a wartime atmosphere of doubt, uncertainty and conflicted loyalties, but the realistic atmosphere and characters didn’t mesh well with the spy thriller elements of the plot.
Louie’s story was apparently intended as a counterpoint to Stella’s, but the character was not as well developed and doesn’t appear consistently so I only realized her importance at the end.
For this reader, the story dragged at times, but the book came alive with every entrance of a minor character, Roderick, Stella’s son, with his young enthusiasm, naïveté and flashes of wisdom.
