https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386234.Just_for_You
On a day when a heavy curtain seems to be hanging over our Country, a book like this takes the mind off of all the stress, what-ifs, and worry.
Little Critter is trying so hard to help mom out but one blunder after another leave him feeling kinda down and out.
This book reminds us as parents to appreciate our children’s efforts, to notice them and praise them, and to be a little bit less uptight and serious.
If you are looking for a lighthearted read with your kiddos, that covers patience and effort, I highly recommend Just For You.
“Just for You” by Mercer Mayer, is about a character known as “Little Critter who tries to help his mother with many different tasks throughout the day but, is unable to complete them.
He becomes frustrated because he cannot help his mother.
After failing at several tasks he says that he just wanted to do something special for his mother and she tells him that he has.
The theme of the story is, “It’s the thought that counts.” The main character is Little Critter.
He is a fun, lovable character.The setting of the story consists of different rooms around the house.
Another classic from Mercer Mayer!
A sweet story of a little critter who has the best of intentions, but manages to mess up everything he does.
My mom read this to me in the mid to late 1970s. It was a favorite then, and now I read it to my son. Love it!
Adorable book. Nice to give to someone you love. I got this for my step-daughters to give to my husband when they were little & they loved reading it with him. He still has it.
This is my favorite book. I love my mom too!
Just for you by Mercer Mayer begins with a young critter attempting to do tasks for his mother.
Mayer invites readers of all ages to experience the simplicity of pleasing our parents, expressing to all of us that a parent’s ability to express pride in their children isn’t defined by the difficulty of a task.
By asking young readers to simply try with all hope to complete tasks and the older audience to remember that success isn’t defined by a pay raise or a 401k.
In the end of the story the mom is happy with a hug from the child, which also shows, she cares for him.
For each page that has text on it, there is a full-page illustration with no words, showing the task the child speaks of trying to complete.
The mother in the illustration always has a happy facial expression, which shows how she cares for the child and appreciates his innocence.
Although this book is short, it is great for all ages and is well written and illustrated.
She knows that her little critter is doing his best, so she tries to just feel the love.
She has to try really hardsometimes, because she knows that he was just trying to take a bubble bath, not bury the house!This is a hear warming story about unconditional love, no matter what.The illistrations are so fun to look at as you go on this wild goose chase of a journey!
Extension: The children can see how may times they see a certain color in the story.
There is a little spider in each of the pictures in the book, for example.
This Little Critter book is about a baby critter who wants to do something special for his mom.
After many attempts such as mopping the floor, putting the dishes away, carrying the groceries and mowing the lawn he feels like he doesn’t succeed.
At the end he gives his mom a hug and kiss which is the only thing she really wanted!
I really liked this book because all kids want to please their mom which is exactly what this little critter wanted to do.
The illustrations contain tons of detail along with cute critter characters.
This Little Critter book is about a baby critter who wants to do something special for his mom.
After many attempts such as mopping the floor, putting the dishes away, carrying the groceries and mowing the lawn he feels like he doesn’t succeed.
At the end he gives his mom a hug and kiss which is the only thing she really wanted!
I really liked this book because all kids want to please their mom which is exactly what this little critter wanted to do.
The illustrations contain tons of detail along with cute critter characters.
I haven't read this one when I was younger but this is a cute little story in the series.
Little Critter is trying to be helpful in the story but ends up making things worse instead of better.
The moral of the story is that sometimes things have to go wrong before they can be right; or have to get worse before they can get better.
This can be used as a read aloud for younger children and used as lesson to teach the students.
This can be helpful in showing the children that sometimes things are go to happen when they are are trying to help and that it always works itself out.
Just for You was one of my favorite books as a child.
It is part of the little critter series, and I loved them as a whole when I was younger.
This little critter was always trying to help out, but every time he tried doing something, it would go wrong.
This book is good for elementary and lower ages and teaches kids that it’s the thought that counts.
Even if you are not perfect at something, trying your best is okay.
This book was written and illustrated very beautifully and it is a book I would recommend any parent read their child.Mayer, M.
Mercer Mayer's books are great for kids of all messages; they are great "first readers" - I learned to read from his books. Each story is easy to follow along, and presents a "be-attitude" type of message that isn't preachy and isn't sappy.I read these stories to my child every chance I get, as well as to my neices and nephews when they are in town. I highly recommend these stories to parents that want to get their kids into reading, are looking for a easy step as their child transitions into school, or just need an easy read.
This Little Critter book's illustrations are better than any of the others I've seen. They're all intricate and detailed and old-fashioned seeming, far more than the others. I like it so much, and it makes me feel sad that the rest of the books don't measure up. I wonder what happened? Why did Mercer Mayer change the style after this glorious book?Truly, the content of the story isn't great. Little Critter is being a little snot, as always, making bad choices and then making excuses (some of the time). But the illustrations are so lovely, I forgive him.
This was a great read, wonderful and simple vocabulary, easy to read. Great illustrations on each page, it showed how much a child loves their mother and wants to show her how much he cares and takes on different tasks throughout the book to show his love. Some of the tasks did not turn out so well so he ended up keeping it simple and giving her just a kiss and hug. Great book to read to children and let them make a special gift just for Mom.
My nieces and I really enjoy Little Critter books.They're short, they're funny, they're topical, and they're cheap.This must be one of the first ones - you can see that Little Critter isn't wearing his trademark overalls yet.He wants to do something special for his mom, but he keeps failing - until the end, when we find out that he succeeded after all. That might go over a young child's head - I guess he succeeded simply by trying? but it's a sweet sentiment anyway.
i love the Mayer books. i've read them all to my son when he was growing up. I've actually bought a couple now that he is off to college and used them a birthday cards .... just little ways to let your kids know you still love them and think about them. He said when he got it in the mail it made him smile and he actually read it. I ca't wait to start reading them again when i have grandchildren! excellent excellent books!!!
Oh, how sweet. This is excellent Mercer Mayer. There are a cricket and a spider in every picture. Little Critter tries hard to do things right, but the eggs are too slippery, the soap is too bubbly, the floor is too wet. The grocery bag breaks. The bed is too bouncy, L.C. is too little to mow the lawn, the TV is too loud. There is a storm in the bathtub. At day's end, he does something special -- hugs his mom. Wonderful pictures!
I could put all Mercer Mayer books on my list. I used to read them to my little brother and went on to read them to my kids. There isn't a bad one in the bunch. Lots to choose from including new babies, potty training, grandparents, mom, dad, etc. Great insights in few words with amazing illustrations. Aren't they all "little monsters"?
Children try so hard sometimes, but they often just can't... be good that is. Mayer explores all the things that little hedgehog (?) does to try to please his mother, but he can't quite get anything right. You can't help but laugh at his attempts, because for the most part he means well; but is just a child, and they are meant to misbehave!
I grew up on Mercer Mayer, so I love his books. I love this story, this little critter wants to help his mom, even though when he does things don't turn out the way he planned. My kids (4 & 5) laughed and loved this book. They also loved pointing out the little crawly critters hanging out on each page.
Mercer Mayer has a variety of great books, like this one. These books always have a lesson that can be learned. This is a good book to read before Mother's Day. It has repeating words like "Just for You." I think it would give students ideas on how to surprise their Mother/guardian with love. Instead of feeling the only way to show them love is to do many chores that end badly.
The Little Critter books are some of my absolute favorites. The illustrations are so funny and cute. Also the story line is very funny and interesting for younger readers. Really like reading this entire series of books!
Hands down one of the greatest books ever written for children and for parents as well. A treasure. There is rarely a children's author who tugggggs at the heartstrings of mom and dad and child while all enjoying the work. Like A.A. Milne did so long ago, Mayer holds to this rare phenom.
I used to read this book when I was little! This is a very sweet story about a very loving and very patient mom. She knows that her little critter is doing his best, so she tries to just feel the love.
I prefer Meyer's more fantastical books. This one probably deserves a higher rating, but I remember that when I was little it was distressing to me how the kid kept trying to help and no one understood or appreciated his efforts.
If memory serves me, this was the first Little Critter book I ever read. I still recall my favourite bit in the book; "I wanted to set the table just for you. But the TV was too loud." That still makes me smile.
Book Title: Just for YouAuthor: Mercer MayerIllustrator: Mercer MayerReading Level: 2.0Lexile: 390LFountas & Pinnell: GBook Summary: This comical read is about a little critter that tries to help out his mom, but just can’t seem to do it right because he keeps making mistakes, getting side tracked, and into trouble.
Presentation: This book uses pictures of a little critter attempting to help his mom throughout the day.
The follow up photo shows the outcome of the little critter failing at helping in his attempted task.
This book allows the students to relate to the little critter.
