https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14029.Beauty_and_Sadness
And, we feel that love is so abstract an emotion that mortal nature of our universe does seem to elude it and yet it needs manifestation of some mortal being, for us to feel it.Beauty and sadness, two seemingly contradictory abstractions are amalgamated into something which, though seem condense, however may shred into different manifestations- attraction, rage or jealousy- when compressed.
The beauty of crimson rails reminds him about underlying sadness of life, about the time spent with Otoko.
The prose of Kawabata shows several moments of artistic grace interspersed with violent human emotions, to their extremes, which may be disturbing at times though.
My own copy of this book: Published January 30th 1996 by Vintage, Paperback, 206 pages.Opening on the train to Kyoto, the narrative, in characteristic Kawabata fashion, subtly brings up issues of tradition and modernity as it explores writer Oki Toshio's reunion with a young lover from his past, Otoko Ueno, who is now a famous artist and recluse.
Ueno is now living with her protégée and a jealous lover, Keiko Sakami, and the unfolding relationships between Oki, Otoko, and Keiko form the plot of the novel.
«رقصنده ایزو»، «دهکده برفی»، «هزار درنا»، «آوای کوهستانی»، «خانه خوبرویان خفته» و ...؛ از آثار این نویسنده ژاپنی ست که به فارسی نیز ترجمه و منتشر شده اند.
This is not a journey for everyone, only for those who willfully choose the forking path of love, for those who struggle against treacherous jealousy with an obstinacy that does not yield to continuum disillusionment, for those who can find in themselves enough insight to bask in that strange scent of mixed roses and cinder, for those daring enough to dance to the rhythm of the beat and the beating heart of the beauty and sadness.Otoko and Oki’s affair, whose love set fire to their existence and changed not only their lives but also the ones of the yet unborn, becomes the center of the story.
Keiko, it turns out, wants to avenge Otoko’s humiliation by getting back at Oki.What’s fascinating isn’t the slightly melodramatic plot – no surprise it was adapted twice for film – but the gentle way Kawabata unfolds the plot and character histories, like petals gradually opening on a flower.You’re never really sure who’s still in love with whom, and who’s jealous of whom.
There’s a vivid sense of place, particularly in the country sections.One atmospheric scene is set at a rock garden, and another features the lovely imagining of what life was like in an area centuries earlier.
Oki longs for a meeting with Ueno Otoko (now famous too, an artist) the woman whose youth he ruined, and to whom the past echoes with obligations left undone.
She has a young acolyte and lover, Sakami Keiko, who devises a devious revenge: the result is biblical.Otoko is a painter in the classical Japanese tradition, a style that is beautiful, simple and yet sophisticated.
Everyone in this story seems to want to contain the past, holding it as a perfect item of sorrow, or beauty.
What was the past that he remembered so clearly?..............he could not escape the pain of having spoiled her life, possible of having robbed her of every chance for happiness.......the vividness of the memories mean that she was separated separated from him...."From flaunting his affairs to Fumiko to consciously leaving his wife out of the memoirs for an untainted tale of intricate passionate love and earning his generous royalties from the book; Oki is an outright amoral man.
Otoko who still loved Oki, her mother and her baby and never let go of her 16 yr old from her soul, the very reason of her being hesitant in sketching Keiko somehow seem to be her teenage apparition.
Honestly this happens so natural that I have never felt any slightest discomfort and a sense of detachment from the reading...As for the content of this stupendous novel, I'd love to say that the entire story is beyond a love triangle, yet it'd be contrarily fair to call it quadrangular love story in which the loving and the beloved shift constantly that in the end the reader might end up asking what their real feelings are, or why the characters are so sickly pathetic when it comes to put into action their emotions...
It was a great reading, and saddening in the end but beautifully written with strong touches on the issues of aestheticism, beauty, dark sadness, obsessive love along with an odd sense of honesty (check out Keiko).
Un uomo, Toshio Oki, decide di incontrare dopo moltissimi anni Otoko, la donna con cui ebbe una relazione passionale, ardente, difficile e dolorosa tanto da annientarla.
L’uomo prova ancora per lei un affetto e il ricordo lo aiuta a mantenere vivo il pensiero di quella fanciulla così bella che gli si concesse senza nessuna remora.
E’ forse una reazione a tutto quell’ordine?Kawabata ci lascia volontariamente all’oscuro di cosa abbia provato Otoko dopo l’incontro con Oki, la sensazione di ritrovarsi di fronte l’amore della sua vita, seppure così doloroso per lei.
If we rid ourselves of every cultural artifact that blended love and hate together in equal measure, we would be be left with very little that is worth remembering.
The repercussions stretch on for more than twenty years, as the man and his family live off the fruit of that story of illicit love, and the girl grows into a woman who wins the love of a girl hellbent on revenge for these past wrongs.
And through the man's dangerously blind romanticism, and the woman's traumatized solitude, they still believe in their love for each other.
كاواباتا كاتب من طراز مختلف، هذه الرواية تغوص في عمق النفس البشرية بشكل عجيب، وتحديداً في شخصية الكاتب "أوكي"، اهتمام كاواباتا بشكل خاص، والأدب الياباني بشكل عام بأدق تفاصيل المشاعر البشرية، وكذلك أدق تفاصيل الطبيعة، يجعل من أعمالهم حالة خاصة في عالم الكتابة.بداية تعاطفت مع بطلة الرواية، ثم تعاطفت مع بطلها أوكي، وتوقفت كثيراً وأنا أقرأ هذا العمل، للتفكير في مدى حكمنا على الأشخاص بالخير أو الشر من خلال القرارات التي يتخذونها في حياتهم تجاه غيرهم.أنصح بقراءة هذه الرواية، وقد يكون لهذا النصح ظلال عاطفية، ألقى بها حبي الأدب الياباني بشكل عام، وما كتبه كاواباتا بشكل خاص.
El argumento es el siguiente: Oki regresa a Kioto para visitar a una antigua amante, Otoko, con la que mantuvo una fugaz pero intensa historia de amor que dejó huella en ambos de tal forma que ella no ha podido volver a mantener ninguna relación con un hombre y él, aunque casado, vuelca toda la historia en una novela para adolescentes que consigue tener éxito.
Ahora bien, lo que el autor pretende, si se va más allá, es que la historia en sí funcione como alegoría que le sirva para poner sobre el papel la complejidad y el poder de las emociones humanas, sin descuidarse de reflexionar a la vez sobre ellas, que pueden llegar a conducir al delirio y a la locura.
I'm a vegetable and in my coma I'm living all these other lives!) less repeating back how people (well, actors) say things to get what they mean (in case of missed subtexts) and more I'M the actor and it (the books) are all big movies in my head.
I feel really bad for her." I couldn't put on a pedestal the long ago love affair between middle aged Oki (married with a baby) and fifteen year old (at the start.
Oki maybe wanted to feel young by being with the teenaged girl.
A pesar de que es mi tercer libro del autor, de alguna manera siento que escribir sobre historias japonesas me queda grande, porque nunca podré explicar realmente la experiencia de acercarse a esta maravillosa cultura y menos llegar a comprenderla en su totalidad.
Pero bueno, no se debe dejar de intentarlo así que voy de nuevo.Oki Toshio es un escritor ya entrado en los cincuenta años y un día decide viajar a Kyoto a pasar la velada de Año Nuevo escuchando las campanas que anuncian el nuevo año.
Preso del recuerdo, Oki desea volver a verla, a pesar de que es casado y tiene dos hijos.
A Classical Kawabata's TaleWriting a comment for such a masterpiece is one of the hardest moments that I've ever had.
From beginning to the end, Mr. Kawabata reveals an incredible environment among individuals and pushes reader to contemplate to what extend obscurity and complexity can endure among people.The layers of novel psychologically sets very intense themes such as love, revenge, acceptance by society and manipulation with Mr.Kawabata's artistic intelligence.I really feel that before writing a detailed comment, this book needs to rest in my thoughts.
All in all, this is a great book which compares cultural issues and puts very uncomfortable reflection and reading experience for western reader.10/9
Oki, who is roughly thirty years older than I, and Otoko, who is thirty-six, appear to understand love from a brief episode in their pasts, when he was thirty and she was only sixteen, and they both were in love with each other; this moment cannot be replicated and proves irreplaceable in the course of the novel.
While Oki and Otoko went their separate ways, their sense of love is perfectly preserved in the past.
Regardless, Otoko’s love for Oki has certainly rearranged her live, disappointed her mother and holds her in a state of longing for the past.
While reading the following nine chapters: Temple Bells, Early Spring, The Festival of the Full Moon, A Rainy Sky, A Stone Garden, The Lotus in the Flames, Strands of Black Hair, Summer Losses, and The Lake, I thought it would deserve a 4-star rating but I changed my mind at the last chapter so the rating minus .25 due to Keiko's revenge as a protegee for her mentor Otoko (who had an affair with an unmarried 30-year-old Oki when she was 15), which has gone too far when Taichiro, Oki's son, is fatefully killed in a boat accident.
Uprkos divnom romanu, pod utiskom sam pogovora i prevoda koji je toliko nakaradan i rogobatan da ne mogu da verujem da je u pitanju osoba toliko hvaljena u oblasti japanologije.Prvo, pogovor NE POMINJE ovaj roman, već prepričava Snežnu zemlju - i to kad kažem da prepričava, mislim da otkrije sve, taman da odmah odustanete od čitanja.
Zavisne rečenice su aljkavo nagomilane, pa je svaka druga reč 'koji/koje/koja', a pritom se sve vreme ističe kako je Kavabata pre svega majstor jezika.Uz dužno poštovanje bilo kojoj osobi koja poznaje japanski ili bilo koji jezik s ideogramima, valjalo bi napokon da prevodioci nauče i srpski.
Kawabata shows his hand too early and too easily making the journey to the inevitable just a little too perfunctory.
There's still a lot to enjoy, a lot of wonderfully evocative passages but the inevitable nature of things actually seemed to hide from the reader of some of the beauty and sadness you might otherwise have felt.
Novela de ritmo lento y pausado como suele ser habitual en la literatura japonesa pero que aun así no se hace pesado y ha logrado engancharme. Muy bellamente escrito entreteniéndose en los pequeños detalles.
The story centers on a love affair between a fifteen-year-old girl (Otoko) and a married-with-child (Taichiro) thirty-year-old man (Oki).
The events transpire some twenty years after the love affair, and revolve around that ordeal and how it affected and continues to affect those involved (Otoko and Keiko, Oki and his wife Fumiko, and their son Taichiro).
Overall, then, the work was slightly uneven, even though it holds enough to be worth reading (the story does stick, and the style really is admirable).
I look forward to reading Kawabata's other works.p.s. Otoko's mother is the quiet hero of the story.
Leitura finalizada do livro " Beleza e tristeza" do Japonês Yasunari Kawabata primeiro ganhador do seu país do prêmio nobel de literatura em 1968.
Em seu discurso para receber o prêmio, condenou o suicídio, lembrando vários amigos escritores que haviam morrido dessa forma.
Kawabata não deixou nenhuma nota escrita explicando seu gesto."Beleza e Tristeza", narra a viagem de um velho escritor 54, Oki Toshio, até a cidade de Kyoto, para ouvir os sinos que tradicionalmente celebram o final do ano.
A narrativa é sutil e brilhante onde o não dito é o que importa.
A bleak and beautiful and tragic novel, slowly unwinding and unraveling love, lust, beauty, and revenge. Kawabata earns his Nobel many times over.
A bit of a shocker. I remembered "Snow Country" as being about old people and snow. This is crammed with sizzling lesbians. There's beauty and sadness in spades, but he's also left lots of room for some very bad romance. Steamy.I think I'm right to say that this has my first Japanese-fiction daytime outdoors sex scene. This was obviously written by a man, and you probably don't want to read it if you are serious about your lesbianism.
Aunque el final es algo precipitado, la belleza del libro y las imágenes que transmite son tan bonitas que vale la pena
Another, my fourth, novel from Kawabata.
Instead of one central character, Kawabata shifts the centre of attention over three characters.
In the other three books, Snow Country, Thousand Cranes and The Sound of the Mountain, much of the 'action' was carried by description, by subtle shifts in ambience.
Here the story starts slowly, creating background and characters and then takes the reader on a perilous roller coaster ride towards a stunning climax.
Finally, in spite of the action, it is character that defines the story.
Kawabata was not a one trick pony.
Un libro fuera de lo común, al menos para los habituados a la literatura occidental.
Bello y delicado, poético, pero extraño, con una psicología de los personajes que cuesta entender.
Muy japonés.Pasiones extremas, personajes atormentados, amor y tristeza, y la constante presencia de la muerte, del suicidio, tan habitual en la cultura japonesa.Un texto extraño, agradable y muy bien escrito pero con unos personajes y unas historias que me han resultado difíciles de comprender, supongo que por el choque cultural.Bello y triste, sí...
pero extraño.
4 por su calidad, pero 3 porque no he conseguido "entrar" del todo en él, por ese choque cultural comentado.
Beauty and Sadness tells of how people damage one another--through greed, seduction, and even through art.
All of the characters in this look are manipulative to a certain degree, even our favorites.
One of the characters was so blatently irrational that I couldn't tell if Kawabata meant for her to be a farse.
It's the type of book that I appreciate more after I've read it and start thinking about it, rather than during.
I know in the future certain scenes or quotes will pop into my mind.
A defining characteristic of Kawabata is how he evokes feelings of isolation and sadness through his landscapes and descriptions of natural settings.
If nothing else, Kyoto has got to be on my must visit list.But then there is the sordid plot.(view spoiler)[Middle aged married guy, Oki, violates an underage girl, Otoko, gets her pregnant, miscarries, tries to kill herself, his wife Fumiko also miscarries, he writes a book about the affair, Fumiko helps to type the book, he makes a lot of money, everybody accepts the situation and life goes on.
(hide spoiler)]That out of the way, once again Kawabata exploits all the five senses in his unique way that transports you into the story setting.
I spent my time reading this book wondering at whether or not it was the translator or the author who had effected the dull thud of short sentences filled with ominous meaning spoken by automatons repetitively about slowly rotating chairs, or obis, or paintings over and over again, repetitively.The different characters all spoke in the same manner, with the same cadence, and the same heavy handed overtures to misplaced meaningfulness in a meaningless life.
Well, in short, because I foolishly fell back into my own version of infantilism, to a time when I took pride in my having finished reading every book I started, regardless whether or not I enjoyed it.
Más allá de la impecable trama y la compleja psicología de los personajes, me gustó mucho el carácter pictórico de esta obra literaria.
Me gustó como Kawabata parecía pintar con las palabras todo lo que ocurría y además todo lo que rodeaba lo que ocurría, con descripciones meticulosas de los entornos naturales.
Todo cobra más sentido cuando pienso que Kawabata efectivamente sentía un especial interés por el arte pictórico.
El libro se sintió como una brisa fría en medio de un bosque: agradable y hermosa aunque un poco inquietante.Algo importante antes de cerrar: aunque esta obra no contiene exactamente una visibilización íntegra ni que me satisfaga por completo del lesbianismo, me gustó esta especie de "mini visibilización", considerando que no existe en abundancia literatura seria que incluya amor entre mujeres.
