https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24836.The_Floating_Opera_and_The_End_of_the_Road
I read these two books in college and had the opportunity to meet John Barth at a book signing in the mid-eighties.
He looked like a good author should: blazing eyes, etc.
I told him I loved the two books so much.
He said, "I wrote those when I was just about your age.
It would be interesting to see if you liked them so much in twenty years." Then I told him I was going to read The Sot Weed Factor next.
He said, "Don't waste your time on more of my books--there are too many good ones out there to read."
One-minute review: The Floating Opera goooood! The End of the Road baaaaaaad!And yet, despite the disappointment of the second book, I still want to throw myself immediately into Giles Goat-Boy, which should tell you the power of John Barth.P.S. The Sot-Weed Factor also good.
According to my Netflix account, the film of "The End of the the Road" will finally (and unfortunately) be released on dvd in September of this year.
John Barth has notoriously endorsed the view of critic John Simon whereby it is said that (view spoiler)["The principal difference between the novel and the film is that the novel concludes with a harrowing abortion, whereas the film is an abortion from start to finish." (hide spoiler)] "Fairly said, alas," quoth John B.
Upon initial release the film was X-rated due to scenes not originating from the novel, i.e., "man rapes chicken, etc." Z-rated by the muses.
[imdb entry].John Barth's first two novels are fine novels.
There was no reason to go to Cincinnati, Ohio.
There was no reason to go to Crestline, Ohio.
My eyes, as Winckelmann said inaccurately of the eyes of the Greek statues, were sightless, gazing on eternity, fixed on ultimacy, and when that is the case there is no reason to do anything—even to change the focus of one’s eyes.
When one has it, one is frozen like the bullfrog when the hunter’s light strikes him full in the eyes, only with cosmopsis there is no hunter, and no quickhand to terminate the moment—there’s only the light."

Both of these are great. Not life-altering, earth-shattering, genre-revolutionizing great, but well worth your time. There are plenty of glimmers here of what would later become Barth's signature brilliance. And if you don't already know what that might be, I'd hate to spoil it for you with blandishing definitions. Barth is as fun as serious literature gets."Though it is too much to expect that I should become solemn about it, certainly the direction of this day's rationalizing was an awesome one--yet full of the attractiveness of desolation, the charm of the abyss."
Descomunal Barth. Aunque no llegan al nivel de sus obras posteriores, estas dos primeras novelas son (aunque suene raro decirlo por su tematica), tremendamente disfrutables. Que viva el nihilismo sonriente, carajo.
I read and reviewed these two books separately:The Floating Opera:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The End of the Road:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Always a great time with Mr. Barth!
Though you may have moved upon that, if not/maybe enough to pull through an adequate denouement in the first book of this tandem "The Floating Opera" - I get the whole suicide setup thing but sociopath's don't generally want to kill *themselves* and your "Toddy boy Andrews" is firmly self serving, but hey what's the quibble, it's all about the making of a writer who when looked back on by reading now, especially having already read his two later, more recognized works, we see the range and movement of artistic locus.
I have always been a fan of “End of the Road” and now that “The Floating Opera” is experiencing a resurgence, I wanted to read it.
Said another way, this book was like the movie “Vanya on 42nd St.” in which the director makes you very aware of actors acting, and over the course of the movie, by virtue of the actors talents, you are drawn into the story and the actors are completely lost in their characters.
o poveste excelenta despre ziua in care un om hotaraste sa se sinucida. Lupta lui de a transforma o zi care ar trebui sa fie exceptionala tocmai prin gestul proiectat de el intr-un sir de evenimente ale rutinei. Cartea captiveaza tocmai prin stilul usor pretentios, savant, atat de obisnuiti mai nou, dar care la Barth se pierde in fluxul unei povestiri care e si introspectie, si istorie de dragoste si, in plus, mai are si darul de a te tzine cu sufletul la gura pana la final.
3.5 stars. I only read The Floating Opera but it was solid. Nice weavings of philosophy+story but also could not really escape that 1st novel amateurishness of it, esp. since it came out so long ago
In short, he is a joy to read.His characters are at once logical and absurd, universal and absolutely inhuman.
In this sense, though they may seem unrealistic at times (and they often do), their deconstruction is made more tragic.His characters may be classically tragic, but his style is thoroughly modern.
His mastery of non-sequential time structures makes them always seem logical rather than simply divergent and tangential.
His wit and facility of language creates the perfect balance of allowing the reader to simultaneously take the subject matter very seriously and find it absurd.The pairing of these two novels is very appropriate, as reading them together allows the reader to see two very similar themes from two different angles.
Winner of the National Book Award for The Floating Opera, Barth's companion piece, The End of the Road, has the same triangular love affair that the participants try to make workable.
Even when the man struggled and it became apparent that he was German, he continued to treat him with kindness and the two spent more than hour together before their friendship ends with a twist that the reader doesn't anticipate..
Over and over, Barth's characters do what you'd least expect.
That's what makes these two books so interesting.

Through the course of The Floating Opera, Andrews increasingly deconstructs his values, to the point where he discovers that there is no intrinsic meaning whatsoever, and it does not matter if he lives or dies.
The Floating Opera is one of those post-modern philosophical novels where the narrator carries on about how everything is meaningless and acts in a narcissistic and hostile way towards others because he (and it's always a he) can.
If we can deconstruct morality all the way to nothingness, can we not deconstruct deconstruction as well?
I read three chapters and that was enough. Too silly, too dad-jokes-y, too juvenile.
My first experience with John Barth was with his collection of short stories "Lost in the Fun House." I was magnified by his finesse with language and, although I didn't feel that all of those stories were successes (and what writer's ever are?), he left me spellbound as to the potential of future fiction.
Having come across him through one of my favorite authors David Foster Wallace and his story "Westward the Course of Empire Takes it's Way," which was a response to Barth's short story from which the prior collection derived it's name, I needed to get more!This was not a disappointment!
I want to read it again right away (though I won't), because I wasn't really ready for it.
I generally like to have a grasp on what I think the author is trying to impart to me the reader.
I can still do what I want with that message, but I like to understand what it is at least.
I also don't think that the character is being used as a means to comment on the ideas, instead of presenting them.I don't know, it was super interesting and I really liked it.
When he finally arrives at the opera, the role it plays is a bigger surprise than you expected.It's clear from reading these novels that Barth's influence is still pretty powerful.
The metafiction in these two novels is pretty low-level stuff compared to what is to come for Barth, but the self-aware narrators, the concept that what you're reading is a product of an author, and the awareness of the author that you're engaging with the book as a reader are enough to define the parallels between Barth's work and this younger set.In the end, "Sot-Weed" is a far more compelling book.
These are the books I'd put next to Lerner, McCarthy and Luiselli to understand where they're coming from.
As I was looking back on the books I read in 2010, I realized I had read a lot of pulpy fiction and was feeling like I should add something with a little more mental nutrition to my night stand.
While I feel like I did get the intellectual stimulation I felt I needed, I was immediately surprised by how readable the book was.
The literary experiment WIttengenstein's Mistress that I read a few years ago came to mind when I first started the Floating Opera.
What a feel makes the Floating Opera work where Wittengenstein's Mistress failed for me was that the Floating Opera had narrative thread.
Barth does manage to bring some sympathy to his character, however-- Andrews refuses to admit it, but his disconnection has been engineered by a number of traumatic events in his life, and his nihilism is ultimately a way to deal with all this tragedy and uncertainty.
His final attempted act of nihilism definitely isn't one to emulate, and there's no doubt that he's a bit of a selfish bastard, but he's at least an interesting, flawed character.An interesting novel, but not necessarily one I think I'll desperately want to re-read.
The Floating Opera and the End of the Road are John Barth's first and second novels--mainly overlooked until he published his third, The Sot-Weed Factor.
I've just finished The Floating Opera, and for the sake of cleanliness want to take the whole thing off my "currently reading" list, even though I haven't gotten to the second book.
Anyway, The Floating Opera is a good read.
It's entertaining and engaging and manages to carry a line of (mainly intellectual) suspense throughout that ultimately pops and fizzles at the end.
I didn't so much mind the fizzle, though the pop had my heart racing.
John Barth is reported to have had a whole literary theory behind it's crafting - in the discussion on a readerly text versus a writerly text.
Texts come in two ways, Barth asserts.
Some of this theory about the text and space made in it for the reader was built part on the basis of ideas from Lacan suppposedly.
I just found that out, and I really must say I do recall a particular feeling of pleasure or enjoyment in reading this Floating Opera a book, a lyric a stand in the river of the reading flow.
Barth's main character is self-absorbed and imaginative - over thinking things in a Proust-like manner without the floweriness.
The story is a bit harsh, ironic, and down-to-earth for all the rationalization that the characters go through to make sense of their lives.
Dealing with a few of the same plot devices, Barth creates a slightly different main character - equally self-absorbed, but less easy to relate to.
The messages seemed too harsh, the arguments too repetitive and the depressing aspects not too fantastic to relate to.

Two novels in which the main character is drawn into sexual involvement with a married woman, one with the husband's definite encouragement, and the other with the husband's possible instigation.
In both the narrators are easy to identify with, and yet seriously troubled and difficult to understand.
This volume of Barth's first two novels came to my list from a tribute to the author's birthday (05/27/1930) on Garison Keillor's Writer's Almanac, and was reinforced by my enjoyment of the Barth's The Sot-Weed Factor, for which my geographical background research proved useful while reading these two novels.
i now need to reread thomas merton's "seeds of contemplation" where i first heard of John Barth...wow, a great read, wonderfully complex study of human nature that will make you squirm.
mos def will read more.
when i first read merton's comments, because i hadn't read john barth, they were beyond me...now super curious to see how he reacts to the book.set in easternshore area of maryland, great descriptions of baltimore and the townships i used to pass through recruiting for peace corps.
modern, complicated, fidelity, abortion, study of psychology and analysis in the 20th century wrapped through the development and carrying-ons of the characters.
Sharp, dark, darkly humorous novels full of psychological insights, descriptions of self-consciousness, and marvelously depicted observations of gestures. I read each novel in four nights and more than slightly preferred The Floating Opera. DFW originally spurred me to read Lost in the Funhouse, which I enjoyed, but I was even more pleased to discover this paperback in a thrift shop the week I moved to Maryland (where Barth lives and sets many of his stories) and to voraciously read it. Fit for readers of DFW and Eggers, for sure.
