https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9397967-abandon
This can also be seen at  The Book Eater .WARNING: This review contains mentions of wanting to throttle, strangle and maim book characters, and includes potentially traumatizing pictures.Just look at this summary. Go ahead, read it.It's amazing, isn't it? And the cover. It's gorgeous. The premise is mysterious, intriguing and lovely. I was SO excited for this book, you don't even know. I think my entire twitter feed knew the instant it was out.This is why I'm going to be a little hard on it. Bec
.WARNING: This review contains mentions of wanting to throttle, strangle and maim book characters, and includes potentially traumatizing pictures.Just look at this summary.
I was SO excited for this book, you don't even know.
At. All.About the narrator:This is what I wanted to do to her for half the book.
SHE DOESN'T KNOW WHO HOMER IS.*throttles narrator*About the romance:It was ridiculous.
He's a one-dimensional, pseudo swoon worthy "dark" guy that we didn't get to know at all.
Eye roll.One thing I learned from this book: tassels?BAD.[image error]EVIL.
I know it looks so good and you want to like it sooo bad, but...
But it's not my fault because Abandon was so hard to even follow thanks to Pierce's convoluted ramblings about her pathetic life and her intermittently reminding herself to check yourself before you wreck yourself.
Pierce would say something like, "Oh and I don't want anything to happen like it did that one time."  And I'm sitting here thinking, "Oh yeah?
The one that took her to the graveyard when she was seven, in hopes that John would run into Pierce and--I hope you're sitting down for this one--fall in love with her.
Oh man I hated this book.
I only picked it up (well, downloaded it - audiobook) because when I was a little girl, my favorite character in Greek mythology was Persephone.
Let me enumerate the ways I hated this book.
The rest of the book is chopped-up flashbacks sprinkled liberally and erratically throughout the story.
I hated all the characters in this book.
It has nothing even approximating a complete story arc contained as a whole within its pages.In conclusion, this book tried to be too much all at once and yet, there wasn't enough going on to form a compelling, coherent whole.
She has a mysterious past involving her death-by-drowning two years ago, at age fifteen, which caused a complete change in her personality.
She keeps running into a mysterious stranger named John, whom she first encountered at age seven in a cemetery, and later runs into mysteriously on several occasions, including the short period of her afterlife before she was resuscitated by paramedics.
Tassels — they iz eeevillll!Yeah, so if you're wondering why I'm being so "mysterious" it's because this book was pretty much a foreshadowing of a warning of a portent.The book swings back and forth between Pierce's present and past.
Her next several encounters involve him appearing suddenly, causing physical harm to several people threatening Pierce, and vanishing.
DNF 24%I don't have the patience to sit around and find out how many types of blades Pierce can compare John's eyes to.
The first book in the series was about getting to know Pierce, finding out what actually happened to her that made her the way she was...
about getting to know lots of interesting characters - Pierce'family, people from her previous life, people she encounters on Isla Huesos...
I had no idea who the bad guy was until it was revealed in the penultimate chapter.To sum things up, I NEED 2ND BOOK, LIKE, NOW!!!
I'd say it's one of the best books Meg's ever written.
Writing this review actually make me sad and guilty because I hate writing anything negative about a Meg Cabot book.
I first discovered Princess Diaries when I was 11 years old and fell instantly in love with Meg Cabot's books.
She somehow manages to escape the Underworld, but John seems to appear everywhere she goes, especially when she's in trouble.
However, trouble seems to follow her there too..When I first read the synopsis for the book, I nearly fainted from excitement.
Most of the book is about how Pierce landed in the Underworld and how she escaped from it; and her previous meetings with John.
(If I had a dime for every time the phrase 'cemetery sexton' was used in this book, I'd have quite a few dimes.) Cabot tells instead of showing, and she tells and tells and tells as Pierce sits there while the finer points of the story are nicely laid out for her.
What makes even less sense is that Pierce, who for the majority of the book had been smart enough to actually want to avoid John, suddenly does a 180 and decides that she's in love with him.
YES, i brought all tree.Given my initial excitement about staring these books, I was sorely disappointed.The Heroin - or should we call her the damsel in distress - is the most annoying, helpless, uncertain, little thing I've ever came across.
She wants to fix everything, and as a spoiled little rich girl believes she's entitled to butt in and do just that.
Then she wines about it.So yes I didn't like her - and since the story is told form her perspective I end up not enjoying it as much.But I am intrigued by John.
As for curiosity, I’d have been vastly happier with Abandon if Pierce had spent more time looking into mythology and Isla Huesos history for herself instead of having to be told everything in one long expository scene.For me, the setting of Isla Huesos was the most interesting aspect of the story.
Abandon piqued my curiosity about Key West history, which I looked up on the internet after reading.
(hide spoiler)]Abandon ends on a cliffhanger but without much having happened (at least in the present timeline) to lead up to it.
lets get to the review.I love Meg's writing, her books are so easy to read and so entertaining.
I've been on a kick lately and read quite a few of them and I can honestly say that I've enjoyed everyone of them, though they've all been very different!If you are a fan of Meg Cabot, I think that you are going to love this one.
oh, John, I'm hoping I get to see a lot more of you in book two!And I just LOVE that cover, which doesn't really have much to do with anything except it is going to look AWESOME on my bookshelf!
Save yourselves!I will try to summarize all the things I hated about Abandon.The protagonist, Pierce, was truly the most awful thing about the book.
That's funny, because I can tell Pierce is being an idiot whenever she breathes.
And a guy I'd met while I was dead had popped by unexpectedly and caused me to be slapped with a seven-figure civil suit.But I was feeling positive about the future.That's great, Pierce!
How silly of me.None of Pierce's thoughts make sense in response to what's happening.
I couldn't even file that under Pierce's craposity, it was all Cabot's laziness.
Things I NEVER Want to Hear Again After Listening to Abandon- Westport Academy for Girls- "Check yourself before you wreck yourself"- Cementery Sexton- Isla Huesos- Chickee- "Check yourself before you wreck yourself" (Oh, is it annoying when I repeat things?)If your supposedly magical danger alert mood necklace is kept tucked beneath your shirt, how can you tell when it changes color?(view spoiler)[Death by scarf?! Come on! (hide spoiler)]
Which mind you, is exactly what I found with this book.So while I might not ever be a fan of the way Cabot writes, I have to admit, she knows what she's doing.Okay, for starters, I'm going to push aside the whole re-telling of Persephone and Hades.
Cabot really knows how to make her readers curious.Basically, this book surprised me.
I was all prepared to hate it and went in with zero expectations, but I ended up really enjoying myself and finally found a glitch when it comes to Cabot's books.Skip her contemporary and stick with her paranormal.Very much looking forward to seeing what she has planed next for Pierce and John in; Underworld!
The Mediator featured ghosts stuck in the world of the living, while Abandon features a young girl, who faces the prospect of being stuck in the Underworld.Pierce’s story is told in pieces throughout the book with the past and present interwoven, but this much you glean early on—Pierce died, and in the Underworld she attracts the attention of John—the keeper of the Underworld.
Pierce was determined to get back to her old life, and she succeeds, but John has to pay the price.Things I loved about the book:1.
I know that I am complaining that I didn't like the book and by my saying that it wasn't long enough seems weird but I wanted a real story.
He seems like a very interesting character and I hope that the author lets him pop up more in future installments, I might even read them if this happens.Last thing the author had way too many subplots.
I think if you are a fan of Meg Cabot then you might want to try this one just know that screaming at Pierce is acceptable.
And I think being unfamiliar with this story actually helped this book for me because I found Abandon's plot refreshing and intriguing as I haven't read any books using this same plot.The main protagonist of Abandon is Pierce Oliviera, a 17-year old girl who recently had a near death experience and in the process met John, who happened to be the ruler of the Underworld, while waiting for the boat that was to take her to heaven.
John Hayden is now the ruler of the Underworld and is smitten with Pierce after meeting her for the second time, entranced by Pierce's pretty eyes and her big heart.
The MC, Pierce, is authentic, as she's not only trying to normal--with a death deity longing for your loins, that's not all that easy--but fit into a new school with the typical high school cliques and head games.The initial element I always notices about a book is its cover.
I usually make a mental note of the cover while I'm reading, trying to find the relation between the coating of the book and the story itself.
She openly states multiple times that her dad throws money around, but she's not the same, because according to her boooooyfriend she always cares for the people and living beings around her.Do I spy a Mary Sue?Let's talk about that boy man male thing, shall we?
(I'll let that speak for itself.) —The second time, he tries to hold her hostage.
—The seventh time, he low-key abducts her.But all that's okay, because he wuvs her!(I never thought I'd find Trump useful in any form, haha.)This book gets a one star rating, because Goodreads doesn't have negative ratings.
Особено след като той се появява винаги когато най-малко го очакваш, но винаги когато Пиърс има най-голяма нужда от него.Ако тя си позволи да продължи нататък, може да се озове обратно на мястото, от което се бои най-много – в подземния свят.Издателство: EnthusiastGoodreads линк: Сюжет Страници:272Читателско преживяване: 5/5 звездиТова е първата книга от трилогията „Царството на Хадес“, но за жалост май няма да видим останалите части издадени при нас.
Точно така започна да се разгръща и историята, която по-късно щеше да се превърне в тази книга.” – казва авторката.Останалите книги от поредицата лесно мога да се намерят на английски език, за който желае да разбере, какво се случва по нататък в трилогията.abandon-trilogyЛично за мен, книгата беше много интересна и приятна за четене.
It looks awesomeand it IS gonna be AWESOMEI mean, Meg? Paranormal again?that can only lead to awesomenessCAN'T WAIT*update February 22.Just read chapter 1, and ohmygod,it is so good, misterious and dark,why aren't you coming faster April?!? oh why?!?*I'm sooo buying like 2 more copies of this book!!!
YAYYYYYY!!!!!I CAN'T BELIEVE SHES DOING ANOTHER PARANORMAL SERIES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!YESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS!
Many elements of the story fail to satisfy.Opening Sentence: Anything can happen in the blink of an eye.The Review:Pierce Oliviera had a near death experience.
Pierce struggles with her new surroundings, attending a new school and making new friends, all the while wondering why she’s so important to John Hayden.Abandon is the first book in a new trilogy based on the Hades and Persephone myth.
Unfortunately, Abandon isn’t the dark reimagining that I expected.
There isn’t any real connection or romance between Pierce and John.
John feels somewhat tacked on and underdeveloped.Overall, Abandon isn’t a dark journey into or out of the Underworld.
Needless to say, I will not be getting the other books in this planned trilogy.As I've said before on the blog, it's about a girl called Pierce(sephone) who meets a Grim Reaper named John, who is barely in the story.
But more about a few allusions to Greek mythology here and there, some passages at the beginning of each chapter from Dante Aligheri's Inferno that made no canonical sense in the context of the book, and a lot of dilly-dallying before Pierce actually did anything.So here's the deal: Pierce meets John, a Grim Reaper, at the cemetery in her hometown when she is 7 years old.
The cemetery sexton explains in the rather hurried third act of the book that John isn't Hades...
Apparently, unbeknownst to me, this was a retelling of the story of Persephone, but I won't be able to really compare or critique on that point because I haven't read the classic story (I know I'm lame); I only know the very basic -queen of the underworld- myth and as I read a few of the reviews I've noticed those who have read the classic tale don't like it as much.
The secondary characters weren't especially developed but due to the advancement of the story, I imagine we will get to know them more in the following books.
Ick!As a solitary book, since nothing much happened I would have felt underwhelmed, but I know it's only the beginning of a story and I still found the plot and characters very intriguing.
I’m so thankful this is a trilogy because I think Ms. Cabot has only scratched the surface of her incredibly imaginative and creative version of the Underworld mythology.
Personally, I can’t wait to read more about John and Pierce but I am also interested in the secondary characters, which played a critical part in the book.
A One-Sit-Read for this reviewer!Abandon tells the tale of Pierce, a teenager who is incredibly empathetic and born to privilege.
But, they don’t know the truth; they don’t know about John, keeper of the Underworld and apparently, keeper of Pierce.
Meg Cabot will always continue to be one of the wittiest authors on my watch, and that doesn't change with this sweet re-telling of the Hades and Persephone myth!Although Abandon was a little slow to start, it was such an easy book to fly through in one sitting.
The only thing I found hard to swallow was how many flashbacks were incorporated in the story because it slowed down the pace.Our heroine, Pierce, was such a kind, caring, and considerate girl, but I felt like she was made from a mold I'd seen so many times before: shy and a little too selfless.
We all wonder what it would be like in the afterlife.Will be taken to heaven, hell or will we remain in the in between.Pierce had a glimpse of what lies after we die.Pierce died.She caught a glimpse of what it was like in the Underworld.She was supposed to stay there until she successfully escaped.She thought everything would be back to normal.But she was wrong.She hasn’t been normal since.Pierce and her mother moved to Isla Huesos where they thought they’d get a new start.But the more Pierce tried to run away, the more she gets pulled towards the world that she has escaped.The man that she was avoiding.The man who she thinks she maybe falling in love with.This book was definitely better than the other book I read.I decided to read two myth-inspired books last week and was extremely disappointed with the other book.
Published: 1/09/2011 Author: Meg CabotI first started reading this book as I loved Meg Cabot's other series ' The Mediator' and 'The Princess Diaries' , so I thought that I would try this series and see if she could write this genre just as brilliantly.
This book features the character of Pierce and John, unfortunately I found it very hard to not compare the characters to Bella and Edward from Twilight as there are a lot of similarities.
I don't recommend Abandon.*****What the F this book is supposed to be?!!I was confused by Cabot’s writing style so it was hard to comprehend the story.
Rewind, fast forward, double rewind – that’s i felt like when i was reading it.Should Pierce come across as a resilient young woman or as a problem child who really doesn’t know what to do with her life?
There is no way their love story is in that book – i know, i read and finished it!The conflict is nowhere near resolved.
Just when i thought John and Pierce are going to take some action, i was already reading the acknowledgement page.
