https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152175.Lost_Victories
If Rommel was Germany's greatest fighting general from WWII, von Manstein was her greatest strategic general. A tremendous book, especially for its insights into dealing personally with Hitler (not easy!)
Having first read this book in 1988 I find that it is still one of the best military memoirs of WW2. It stands next to 'Panzer Leader' by Heinz Guderian, 'Neither Fear Nor Hope' by General F. Von Senger Und Etterlin and 'The Rommel Papers'. The book is very easy to read and is valuable to any one who wishes to understand 'the other side of the hill'. His accounts of the various actions he was involved in during the War are excellent and his views on Hitler and German strategy make this a great book.
Unlike the last set of books I just read written by David Glantz this book is very approachable for the person who has an interest in this area of history and wants a taste of what it was like from the viewpoint of a German general.
This is the type of biography I have always enjoyed reading as you get the persons view point and his thoughts totally unvarnished.
Don't read this if you are looking for a factual based history of the war which deals with objective truth about the events and the people but do read it if you want a first hand account of battles and events Erich von Manstein saw and influenced during WWII.Highly recommended
59/100Wenn es um Rhetorik aus der Liga der deutsche Soldat war tüchtig und tapfer, aber die oberste Führung war schlecht geht, verdient das Buch natürlich fünf Sterne.
In der zweiten Hälfte kommt so etwa alle zehn Seiten eine Klage, dass Hitler die dringend erforderlichen und früh angeforderten Truppen erst viel zu spät und oft nur kleckerlesweise geliefert hätte.
Das militärische Geschehen bleibt aber selten unplastisch und wirkt oft wie vorgelesene Statistiken oder Zahlenspielereien, die aufzeigen, warum man nicht gewinnen konnte.
Manstein mag zwar ein militärisches Genie gewesen sein, die literarische Vermittlung seiner Fähigkeiten und der Auswirkungen seiner taktischen Meisterleistungen gelingt nicht wirklich.
Field Marshal Erich von Manstein was probably the best operational commander the Germans produced during World War II, and possibly the best of any side; certainly he was up there with Slim, Patton, and Chuikov.
Manstein describes his interactions with Hitler, and analyzes Hitler's weaknesses as a military commander, in some depth on several occasions in the last few hundred pages of the book.Lost Victories ends rather abruptly with Manstein's account of how he was unceremoniously transferred by Hitler from command of Army Group South to a "reserve" position back in Germany, a result of their repeated head-butting and Hitler's perception that Manstein was publicly questioning Hitler's ability to command.
-Fuente subjetiva pero fuente al fin y al cabo.-Género. Historia.Lo que nos cuenta. Trabajo que mezcla historia y autobiografía profesional del conocido, importante, destacado y laureado Mariscal de Campo, centrado en su intervención en el devenir militar de la Segunda Guerra Mundial y que nos llevará de Polonia a la URSS (la parte del león de esta obra) pasando por Francia, hasta el 3 de abril de 1944 en el que cede el mando de su Grupo de Ejércitos.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
The German Enemy Showed More Respect For Poland Than Did the French and British Allies.
58).POLAND'S 1939 FATE WAS FAR FROM HOPELESSPointedly, Manstein believed that, had the French intervened, and had the Polish forces been defending the smaller perimeter, Poland actually stood a chance: “The bravery with which the Polish troops fought right up to the end would have been an adequate guarantee of their ability to hold on until the Allies reached the Rhine and forced the German command seriously to consider calling off the campaign in Poland.” (p.
62).THE GERMAN ENEMY SHOWS MORE RESPECT FOR POLAND THAN THE BRITISH OR FRENCH.
I had heard of the German tank commander from reading other historical accounts of things during WWII.
Therefore, I had to read this book when I saw it on the bookshelf of the local bookstore.It gives a great insight to the German Tank units of WWII.
Obviously, Manstein only lets us see the things he wants us to see, but this I found very interesting and I felt as though I was looking through his eyes when reading some accounts.
It did not matter how many times the German tank units won, there was always more enemy to face on another day.
I am about half way through this book.
Manstein's book is too typical.
German soldiers were brave, did their duty, didn't pillage, didn't torture, the Soviet's were brutal, and my favorite, were the victims of a totalitarian system!
This book doesn't provide any real insights, but I guess that is because what he said was published in 1958 and have been a part of the history books and debate since then.
His early days as a solider in WW1.
He starts of the book pretty much working for von Rundstedt just before the war.
I find it interesting he doesn't speak of his days as an infantryman.
This was one of the best war time memoirs that I've read.
Manstein was a brillant commander.
I wonder what his legacy would be if he could have spent all his efforts on his job instead of fighting for the resourses he needed to do his job from the narrow minded and weak superiors.The world is grateful that things played out the way they did.
This book takes the reader from Poland to the offenses in the west to Barbarossa and the failed attempts to free Sixth Army and ultimatly there fate to the retreats of 43and44 until his sacking in 1944.
v. Manstein's book is interesting on many levels. He provides strategic thinking on the course of the war and the options available to the Germans, insights into Hitler's management of the war, great tactical insight into the operations on his portion of the Eastern front. It is a bit repetitive and tedious as seemingly every deployment of his forces is described. It would have also been interesting to learn how he finished the war and his observations of the final year of the war after his removal from command.
Well written.
However, it goes into a lot of detail on who, why, what and where on too many events.
Great for those that like this sort of thing.
I should say REALLY GOOD for the historians and students.
I should say REALLY GOOD for the historians and students.
The first part of the book deals with Poland and of course the start of WW11 as we know it.
But I got bogged down on the rest of the book.
I'll give it a 4 because of ALL the info that probably won't be found in other books.
However, I was completely lacking in anything resembling an in-depth or nuanced understanding of the events and dates I could rattle off.Lost Victories is one of a number of volumes written by members of the German Army in the late 1950's and early 1960's.
The first issue is that Von Manstein ends the book with his dismissal from command of Army Group South at the end of March 1944.
Von Manstein maintains where rear area administration was in the hands of the German Army there was not partisan activity.
Hitler’s procrastination prevented the German army from a successful counterattack at Kursk and forced the army into retreat.
The scope of the book lasts until the removal of Manstein as chief of the Army Group acting in the South of the Soviet Union.It was very enlightening to have a commander’s opinion on many important military decisions and actions during WW II.
Of course, one needs to take into account that Hitler’s ambitions may have been wider or different than his military commanders due to other aims: political versus economical objectives, the struggle for resources between different armies.
This book was an interesting perspective from one of the best German Generals. What I found fascinating was he often faced decisions where there were no good options. Indeed, Manstein, from a military perspective chose the least worst option throughout much of the campaign on the Eastern Front. Further, the dialogue between Hitler and Manstein brings to light how a leader inept in policy and strategic decision making can lead to defeat on the battlefield. Manstein makes little to zero note on the evils of the Nazi regime, keeping the writing strictly to military decisions at the operational level.

Очень интересный документ эпохи. Особенно "впечатлили" полемика автора с Гитлером и пронесённое через всю жизнь непонимание, что "война есть продолжение политики иными средствами", о чём Клаузевиц сказал задолго до того, как Манштейн родился.Лицемерие, ложь, приписки... Зачем всё это было добавлять в мемуары - не знаю. Но этого тоже полно и заметно невооружённым взглядом.Читать стоит, читать нужно, так как именно этот человек во многом держал на себе удары советской армии в 1943-1944 годах. Но помнить о поговорке "лжёт как очевидец" тоже нужно вне всякого сомнения.
As a student of second world war for last 15 years, I felt this autobiography gives a detail account of how a dictatorial whim of an incompetent political leadership plagued by greed and lust of power led to serious strategic blunders that ultimately cost Wehrmacht the war. Hats off to the master tactician who always fought against overwhelming numerical odds and pulled off the impossibles - especially Third battle of Kharkov and Battle of Crimea.
Fascinating insight from a man who was there when it happened, that said a lot of Manstein's words involve plenty of blame shifting for Germany's fortunes during the war - mistakes made by the OKW such as the infamous Halt Order at Dunkirk were often wrongly attributed to Hitler (it was in fact Army Group A commander Gerd von Rundstedt who pushed for the halt, with Hitler merely validating the order many hours later). Aside from that, a compelling read.
The only thing that impedes a maximal mark is the technical part of the book, which makes it rather difficult for the usual reader. None the less, this is the most valuable argument that makes Lost Victories a matter of study for those who try to understand mechanisms of war. So, a interesting book, but also a hard one to deal with.
5 Stars. Likely Germany's most intelligent general. The Allies should be thankful he did not have the power to run the war.
I got a little bored. I found it too apologetical: 'Hitler was wrong, and not the army'. 'The army did not misbehave', ... Yet I might be wrong.
And, finally, Manstein, in his "Author's Preface," oddly enough speaks to Blumenson's comment when he notes that (page 17): "This book is the personal narrative of a soldier, in which I have deliberately refrained from discussing political problems with no direct bearing in the military field." However, could one separate the political diabolism of Hitler from the military actions?
There is great poignancy in Manstein's recalling the desperate situation in Stalingrad, as General Paulus followed Hitler's stupid order to defend at all costs.
And, in this context, of Hitler's orders not to retreat, despite the desperate strategic situation in which the German forces found themselves.
And for Manstein it was almost always him trying to change Hitlers mindand only occasionally succeeding.There were a number of details in the book that I haven't seen elsewhere and were very helpful in understanding what happened on the Russian Front.Much talk about how the airlift to troops at Stalingrad failed,Manstein details how many pounds of cargo the German planes could carry.I had no idea it was so little.
Just a few thousand pounds, nothing like modern jets.Also, as the Russians advanced they'd put all the people they "liberated" to work.All the men under age 60 were given a rifle and put on the front line,everyone else helped with supplies or food prep.I'd read elsewhere the average life expectancy of a Soviet soldier on the front line was only13 days.
Manstein gives a very interesting combination of first-hand appreciation of the developing event and front line experience (at least in the early years when he still commands a corps).
In addition to the descriptions of the event with an emphasize that might be different from typical history book, the author also add in many insight and comment about the challenges and opportunities of the situation he was facing and how and why they were developed as such.
A more annoying feature to me is the tendency to repeat the same argument or descriptions of the same situation over and over again, especially in dealing with his disagreement with Hitler.
Lost Victories is the Erich von Manstein's recollection of the operations and events he took part during WW2.It is not an autobiography strictly speaking, as there's very little said about his childhood or his military career during WWI.
Manstein succeeds in giving the reader a clear and accurate insight of every grand operation he was involved in.
In that sense, the book has an exception historical value.Perhaps it is too accurate for readers not familiar with the different campaigns that are described here.
After realizing how important von Manstein was, his memoires showed how it was doneIt took me fifty years to understand who Erich von Manstein was, an orphan adopted into a family with a Prussian military tradition and with his new grandfather who had successful commanded an army, von Manstein desired to follow in those footsteps.
From there he rose to command groups of armies on the eastern front as Field-Marshall von Manstein.
Even though the days of huge land battles are long gone, von Manstein's memoires teach us how huge strategic situations can be thought about and handled.
The author belonged to the Junker class of military families of Prussian or East German origin.
Their aristocratic mindset and their hatred of the Weimar Republic and communism led them to forever blight their honor by serving one of the Greatest foul one of western civilization.
The antisemitism permeating their class didn't help either.
He also like an aristocrat puts the blame on Paulus for not breaking out at Stalingrad.
With disdain he describes the Fuhrer who he and millions serve as a clever yet amateurish military bungler who if he followed von Manstein suggestions may have fought the Russians down to a standstill.
Manstein provides his perspectives of the major wars in WWII, from the early German successes to their turning point in Russia.
While some may argue that hindsight is always 20-20, Manstein provides his rationales for his proposals which are generally sound and probably would have changed the course of the war.
His analysis of the various battles and overall strategy made me wonder how differently the war and the world would have turned out if Hitler had listened to him, and the large waste of lives that had ensued because Hitler did not.
-Fuente subjetiva pero fuente al fin y al cabo.-Género. Historia.Lo que nos cuenta. Trabajo que mezcla historia y autobiografía profesional del conocido, importante, destacado y laureado Mariscal de Campo, centrado en su intervención en el devenir militar de la Segunda Guerra Mundial y que nos llevará de Polonia a la URSS (la parte del león de esta obra) pasando por Francia, hasta el 3 de abril de 1944 en el que cede el mando de su Grupo de Ejércitos.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
