https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/382847.Murder_on_the_Ballarat_Train
What this country 1920s Australia coming to these days? A body can hardly take a train without being chloroformed or horrifically murdered or having molested orphans palmed off on her. And it was such a short book, too! When you subtract all the time spent talking about clothes and seducing the boring college boy (not that he held out long) it's a wonder any detecting got done at all.
Great mysteries and great fun to read.
Rating: 2.5* of five for the book, 4* of five for the series.Miss Fisher's Murder Mysteries episode 2 was Kerry Greenwood's third novel, MURDER ON THE BALLARAT TRAIN. Four stars for the episode! My review is at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.These episodes, the series in general...such a treat. So satisfyingly beautiful to look at, and the problem of Greenwood's almost taciturn take on exposition is handled by the visuals. An excellent marriage.
Rating: 2.5* of five for the book, 4* of five for the series.Miss Fisher's Murder Mysteries﻿ episode 2 was Kerry Greenwood's third novel, MURDER ON THE BALLARAT TRAIN. Four stars for the episode! My review is at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.These episodes, the series in general...such a treat. So satisfyingly beautiful to look at, and the problem of Greenwood's almost taciturn take on exposition is handled by the visuals. An excellent marriage.
treći roman o gđici Fisher, u kojem rješava ubojstvo, zatvara još jednog gada a usput skuplja napuštene mačiće i još ponešto...
Murder On The Ballarat Train is book 3 in the Phryne Fisher series by Kerry Greenwood.
The readers of Murder On The Ballarat Train will follow Phryne Fisher investigation.Murder On The Ballarat Train was an enjoyable cozy mystery.
I do love the way Kerry Greenwood portrayed Private Detective Miss Phryne Fisher and the way she interacts with other characters in Murder On The Ballarat Train.
Murder On The Ballarat Train allows the readers to learn about living in the 1920's in Ballarat and train travel during this period.
Also, the readers of Murder On The Ballarat Train will see how law enforcement and private detectives investigations cases in the 1920's.
Almost as contrived as an Edgar Wallace or Sax Rohmer tale, but with Greenwood's nicely light touch the plot just flows along and as long as you can manage to take the odd proceedings with a grain of salt and just enjoy the fun bits, I think you'll find this is a very entertaining story; it also is very moving in many spots, but more on that later.
Of course, if you don't happen to *like* mostly (but not entirely) Happy Endings, this pretty much ain't the series for you for, despite the dark themes that abound in the books, most of the endings do manage to have happy - or at least satisfying - bits to them.
I’m not a fan of stories where the criminal turns out to be insane, even though it’s a classic: most crime is carried out by sane people, or certainly people whose mental disorders are not central to the deed.
It doesn’t help that the whole hypnotism thing is a little too convenient — the hypnotist can get away with just about anything using hypnotism, here.Still, it’s fun, and I love the found-family stuff at the end.
I did predict some turns of the plot, but that’s not really what I’m reading this for anyway.I don’t think Phryne has had the same lover in any of these books so far, either.
3.5 stars.The mystery is fun, right up until the murderer comes down with an overwhelming case of becoming a raving maniac when faced with capture (by a woman no less!).Bert and Cec are great. Still getting used to Jack's slightly different role in the books.Really enjoy Jane and Ember.Slightly maternal Dot is great. As is the fact that she is the one Phrynne really leans on.Am fine with Phrynne having all the affairs, but the whole college student thing is a bit awkward at times, mostly due to his reaction to it.Still, a fun read.
Fumbling for her Beretta she shot out the window of the fast moving train and when a gush of cold air hit her, she could feel her senses gradually returning….Phryne and her maid Dot had decided to travel by train from their home in Melbourne to Ballarat for a restful few days, little knowing the nightmare they would soon be embroiled in – but with the inimitable Miss Phryne Fisher at the very centre of events, the murderer would soon wish he had never laid eyes on her.
And as she worked through the clues she could feel the horror mounting at what she was finding; all deep in a freezing Melbourne winter.This was another delightful Phryne Fisher murder mystery.
While I’m noticing some inconsistencies in characters that aren’t Phryne (Dot’s surname changes, for example, and apparently the hair colours of Jane and Ruth too), it’s still fun and those are only really noticeable because I’m reading the books all more or less together, in one glorious reread.(Note: this is still an excellent way to consume them, though I’m now on book seven and taking a bit of a break.)My main quibble is still with the mentally ill murderer who suddenly loses it and snaps, ruining all his plans and exposing himself badly.
Another well-written installment and one that I quite enjoyed--for the most part. Unfortunately, one of the later chapters was decidedly un-cozy in tone -- unsavory men and young, innocent girls and selling them into awful professions -- but the humanity of Phryne and her friends got to shine the more for it. Even so, I'm hoping that the other books in the series follow more along the lines of "Away with the Fairies."
That's especially true with Murder on the Ballarat Train.
In the book, the action leaves the train quite quickly, and it feels like a third of the book is about Phryne seducing a college boy.
Many of the plot elements remain the same in the episode but are shuffled around a lot, though there's a subplot involving Jane--with Bert and Cec investigating--that was closely reproduced.
Details about mesmerism feel unbelievable in both print and film, though the book adds a bit about voodoo that left me saying, "Huh?" However, the characters still shine.
I love Bert and Cec, and the Butlers.
nice light quick read. exactly what I wanted. different from the tv series, so it stands in its own. I like that.
3.5★sThe Honorable Phryne Fisher and her loyal companion Dot Williams are travelling by train to Ballarat when they are overcome by chloroform fumes, near Ballan.
When order is restored it is discovered that one of the travellers in the first class carriage, Mrs Ann Henderson, has disappeared, most likely through the train window.
Eventually her badly battered body is found near the train track, and it seems she may have been pulled out of the window and up onto the roof of the train.Phryne is engaged by the victim’s daughter Eunice to investigate her mother’s death.
The Honorable Phryne Fisher, British ex-pat now living in Melbourne, Australia, can't even board a train without stumbling onto a mystery.
The woman's daughter, Eunice Henderson, hires Phrynne to investigate the disappearance.
So Phryne embarks on solving two mysteries: a disappearance and an appearance.
Needless to say, Phrynne discovers the solutions with daring and aplomb.Has there ever been any woman as sexy and clever as Phryne?
However, the mysteries are excellent (although most readers will deduce who killed Mrs. Henderson before Phryne does), and the novel provides a glimpse of life in Australia in the 1920s and the culture shock of the arrival of a flapper -- someone who smoked, drank, unabashedly took lovers, drove herself, and donned trousers -- in what was then a backwater.
Murder on the Ballarat train by Kerry Greenwood is the third Phryne Fisher Mystery book.
Fast paced action and adventure from when Phryne foils plans to chloroform the passengers on the Ballarat train.
She is hired to solve the murder of one of the passengers as well as help another girl on the train who has lost her memory and is found to have been molested.
I enjoyed this book very much.
I loved catching up with and finding out more about the characters and I'm looking forward to the next book.
I love that the television series follows the books closely.
Bettie's Books
I really enjoyed reading about Phryne's adventures. This open with a murder on a train and introduces some new characters. Lot's of fun in this series!
Originally published at Reading RealityI’ve watched Phryne, I’ve read Phryne, and now I’ve listened to Phryne, and she’s utterly marvelous no matter how she is experienced.I’m absolutely certain that the “beautiful young man” in Murder on the Ballarat Train would wholeheartedly agree.
Although his roommate probably would not.That Phryne refers to the man she seduces, vamps and ravishes in this book as “the beautiful young man” multiple times is part of the reason that the character of Phryne seems much older than the 26 or so that the author purports her to be.
Super fun as always. I love the glamorous Phryne and I love her sass.The mysteries are rather good. Third book in the series and I'm really enjoying these for light entertainment. Pic from the TV series (I've not watched it but I like Phryne's look).
Really enjoying this series.Not great literature, but wonderful fun. Well drawn characters and good plots.
Phryne Fisher Mysteries: 3Same old same old - Phryne is richer than Croesus, drives like a racer, and is a talented seductress. Am still not sure what the appeal of this series is. There's a lot of time spent on pointless trivia - fashion and food mainly. Diverting read if only because it's short.
I enjoy these books , especially after seeing the shows on tv. Fun diversion.
A fine mistery story with new characters coming into view.Yet, somehow, I still miss "my" Phryne (from the TV series)...
I absolutely love Phryne Fisher, completely agreeing that she's about as unrealistic character I've ever read.
The second thing that made this book a more than usually simple read for the genre was the fact that--apart from a short time in which it appeared that the murder suspect had an alibi for the night in question--there was no running up a list of suspicions before doubling back to the first one.
This book was much more about having a suspicion and then biding time until the murder suspect revealed himself.
The third and I hope final set-up novel in the Fisher series, in which Jane and Ruth and Ember join Phryne's menage.
I think the author must not have re-read that bit very closely, or was rushing an installment to press.Ms Greenwood continues to work on the lines of abused children/women/prostitution, which yes, I know was and is a serious problem, but I hope that in other novels she can find a new hobby horse for Phryne to ride.
Having read two or three out of sequence, I know the series gets better and I'm looking forward to it.
Phryne awakens realizing the first class car is filled with chloroform fumes.
Additional, Phryne rescues a young girl who has lost her memory.*** I’ve said it before, but Phryne is who I’d like to be when I grow up; beautiful, smart, tough, independent, fashionable, wealthy but mindful of her poor beginnings and willing to help those who truly are in need.
She has a wonderful, ever growing, cast of supporting characters who are diverse and interesting in their own right.
This was not the strongest book in the series, but I do love the series overall.
Outstanding!I am a huge fan of the Phryne Fisher mysteries, both in print and in audio, and this is one of the best. Stephanie Daniel is an excellent narrator, and I cannot say enough about how well she does voices and background, timing and emphasis.I've recently listened to a couple of new audio versions of long-time sci-fi/fantasy favorites, and I wish the narrators had listened to Ms Daniel as a training exercise.Very highly recommended.From my Audible review
So, as a fan of the wonderful show Miss Fisher Murder Mysteries, I figured it was time to delve into an actual book. I firmly believe the book to be superior to any TV/film adaptation.This time, for once, the theory did not hold.Somehow, Phryne in the novel seemed annoying, the story too removed from the actual murder. It seemed like the subplots mattered more.However, the characters, inventiveness, colorful speech and peek into ol' Australia were all gems.I shall try another Greenwood mystery later on.
Phryne Fisher girds her loins for further adventures and solves a murder on a train as well as the disappearance of little girls in Melbourne. 1. A passable romp. 2. The villain turned into a ridiculous screaming Scooby-Doo monster, screaming about women foiling his achievements. 3. Phryne falls into bed with a boy in college and the whole thing comes off a bit...awkward. Like seduction of the innocent or something. 4. (2.75 stars)
