https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7090447-the-red-pyramid
(B) 74% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Frantic, hollow and artificial. [And no, parenthetical bickering does not reinforce presence, it's just sounds contrived.]
Otherwise it distracts you from what is going on in the plot, which is quit more important than Sadie telling Carter how hilarious he was when a bird pooped on his face.And on the note of the characters, I'm all for alternating chapters between character perspectives, I've always loved it and find it highly effective as a way to open up the plot.
The twins from the Nicholas Flamel books have a similar relationship that Carter and Sadie have (albeit far more mature).
This book was SO GOOD!
I really really enjoyed it!The world building wasn't super solid - I think that was my main and only issue, but the rest was so great.
It's hard to compete with PJO and HOO, but this is still such a great book from Riordan.
I also appreciate that though it's still about mythical gods, it's not an exact copy of what PJO is.
It's super different and stands on its own as a really unique and interesting story.
I love Carter and Sadie and I'm really excited to read the rest of the trilogy!
I really liked this book! For me, it wasn't quite as good as the Percy Jackson series or the Heroes of Olympus, but it was still a really funny & entertaining read and I'll definitely be continuing with the series! I feel like if I were more familiar with Egyptian mythology I would have enjoyed this a lot more because I would have picked up on more of the jokes, but this is also kind of educational--I feel like I'm learning about Egyptian mythology, and I'm sure the other two books will be even better because of this!
Julius, who is secretly a magician, but posing as a simple Egyptologist, takes the siblings to the British Museum, where he tries to bring Osiris (the Egyptian god of the Underworld) back into the mortal world.
His magic also has the unintended side effect of summoning the gods Horus, Isis, Nephthys, and Set, as well as alerting the magicians Zia Rashid and Michel Desjardins to his actions, which are illegal in the magic community.

There is a new interesting interpretation of them and how they interact with the world.
I want to feel like if I lived in this world I too could do magic.
After this book I was sure I could do the magic of this world if I was in it.⑤ - Interesting cohesive story and plotting that lend to a bang up conclusion.
With the help of a few unusual friends they must find ways to unlock the Power of the Gods (Egyptian ones) within themselves and try to save the world.
“It takes strength and courage to admit the truth.” Honestly, who does it better than Rick Riordan when it comes to middle-grade fantasy books? The answer is no one. He never ceases to amaze me with the ideas he's coming up with, and although one could say that his books and ideas are being recycled I downright disagree with that notion. He's written about the Greek Gods, about the Roman Gods and then the Egyptian Gods, and each time he comes up with completely different ideas and twists to enc
Or maybe they're just common humans trying to save the world?)You may think you're a little too familiar with this storyline, especially if you're an avid Riordan reader, but you'll be up for a surprise, trust me.This somehow felt a lot more fast-paced than all of his other books.
Usually, Mr. Riordan takes his time with the characters and the plot but in this one everything was faster than usual and I admit that I loved the change.I'm saving my five stars for the next book, this was just shy of getting it.
Lloro de felicidad con este libro, es maravillosa la forma en que Rick te mete en la historia, como hace que creas que todo es real, como te hace parte de la magia.La mitología Egipcia es increíble, aprendí muchas cosas sobre ello de la mejor manera. Rick y todos sus libros son maravillosos! Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
I reasoned out that I can't choose which one is better cause both made learning history fun and both have that cool factor reliving the things in the past.
Let's review that sentence: "Yes, if it had been well executed." Yeah, as what my stars above says(don't look up to the sky dumbass, I mean the rating stars.), it is not an awesome book.
The existence of the egyptian gods in the book is not that cool either.
It would have been better if it's only on the beginning and the end just like in the Lightning Thief.As for the main characters, Sadie and Carter is the least likable sibling I ever read.
Since they only see each other once a year or so, it nicely adds to the story to have their relationship develop and evolve.When visiting the museum something goes terrible wrong, and Carter and Sadie discover that there may be more to their father, and the Kane family, than they realized.I listened to the audio book, which I thought was wonderful!
I enjoyed this, and - like the Percy Jackson books with Greek mythology - The Red Pyramid made me intrigued with Egyptian mythology and history (the author's note, by the way, is fantastic!).Also, it was very nice and refreshing to have the Kane siblings be mixed race, with a black father and white mother.
Such a fun, entertaining read! Initial thoughts:1. Interactive with the reader. Riordon pulls you into the story!2. Amazing Egyptian mythology! Gods, and magic everything!3. Elements that remind me of Percy Jackson and Harry Potter. Didn't bother me, but it's noteworthy.4. Full of banter, and sarcasm. Loved it!5. Action-packed, and fast paced! Lot's of story but it's filled with something insane.Check out my full book video review!
RTC 😳
My sister has read them and she kind of hinted at them not being as good as the PJO series so I was very hard on the story.
One of the reasons I didn't really enjoy this story -which is my fault, not the book's- is because my knowledge of the Egyptian Gods was Zero.
In result, I had a hard time having fun because I was busy figuring out the Gods.My second problem is that I didn't like the characters, Sadie in particular.
I also liked they were kind of narrating the story as a recording.
The Red Pyramid switches dialogue between a sister and brother, Sadie and Carter, in which he drops the awkward dialogue, picking up a sort of vague, non-specific voice for both of the characters.I hate switching POVs unless it's done VERY well, and the problem is, most people who are good at creating voices don't switch.
The plot was already used; I liked the whole son-needs-to-save-mom thing in the Lightning Thief, but you can't just use it twice!
Also, in The Lightning Thief, Riordan spent time nurturing and explaining the relationship between Percy and his mom, so you actually cared when she got captured.
So Carter and Sadie escaped the house od life with the minimum magic they had learned, two not-so-helpful Egyptian gods inside their heads and their pet cat Muffin/the cat goddess, set off to save their lives and prevent the evil god, Set, to build The Red Pyramid and started the end of the world.The story, though I can’t say it’s original since it has a lot of similarities to Rick Riordan’s own other books, was quite exciting.
It’s a first person POV like so many books, but it was funny how it’s like Carter and Sadie sent to Rick Riordan to write their recorded message about their adventure so other young magicians could read.WARNINGThe following is a transcript of a digital recording.
I guess if you haven't read Percy Jackson, you'll definitely LOVE this book!
It is enjoying to read!
and like percy, the main characters carter and sadie lived in the shadow all throughout their lives but found out the truth later on when they have to save the world from Set. BUT again, i still loved the book.
Ancient Egyptian culture had always intrigued me when I was young and it is great to find a book about it, even greater to know that Rick Riordan's the author.
I learned a lot in reading this book.
I absolutely recommend it especially if you haven't read Percy Jackson yet.
Mythology was one of my favorite classes in college and Rick Riordan is one of the best authors I've known. So, combine them and here's a great book! :)
Riordan's books are always great!
I own 19 physical copies by Rick Riordan and out of the 16 I've read, none have disappointed me. And the same can be said about this one. No idea why this series has such a low rating because I for one adored this book!! The Egyptian mythology is just as interesting as the Greek and Norse he brought us near and proves that a) not only is Rick an unprejudiced sort of character, he also has a vast knowledge of other mythologies and manages to capture the essence of said mythologies in his stories. Well done as always :)
Plain ol' Riordan fun.
เปนหนังสือทีอานแลวรูสึกสะพรึงมาก ! สะพรึงในทีนีมีหลายความหมาย...อยางแรกกคือ ครังแรกทีเราเริมอานหนังสือเลมนีไมกีหนา...เรารูสึกทึงมาก ! ทึงในการสรางโลกใบใหมของริคทีเอาตำนานของอียิปตยัดใสเขาไปไดอยางนาสนใจ สะพรึงในอีกความหมายคือ...ชือเรียก คำเฉพาะ ทีอานยากและจำยากมาก บางคำนีอานจบเลมแลวยังไมรูวามันคืออะไรเลย จำไมไดอะ เยอะแยะมากมายไปหมด (แลวกขีเกียจพลิกกลับไปดูดวย เหอๆ) สิงทีทำเราสะพรึงอีกอยางคือเนือเรืองทีพลิกไปพลิกมาตลอด มองในแงดีกคือ...มันทำใหคนอานอยางเรารูสึกตืนเตนตลอดเวลาทีอาน แตถาคิดอีกแงนะหรอ..
เป็นหนังสือที่อ่านแล้วรู้สึกสะพรึงมาก ! สะพรึงในที่นี้มีหลายความหมาย...อย่างแรกก็คือ ครั้งแรกที่เราเริ่มอ่านหนังสือเล่มนี้ไม่กี่หน้า...เรารู้สึกทึ่งมาก ! ทึ่งในการสร้างโลกใบใหม่ของริคที่เอาตำนานของอียิปต์ยัดใส่เข้าไปได้อย่างน่าสนใจ สะพรึงในอีกความหมายคือ...ชื่อเรียก คำเฉพาะ ที่อ่านยากและจำยากมาก บางคำนี่อ่านจบเล่มแล้วยังไม่รู้ว่ามันคืออะไรเลย จำไม่ได้อ่ะ เยอะแยะมากมายไปหมด (แล้วก็ขี้เกียจพลิกกลับไปดูด้วย เหอๆ) สิ่งที่ทำเราสะพรึงอีกอย่างคือเนื้อเรื่องที่พลิกไปพลิกมาตลอด มองในแง่ดีก็คือ...มันทำให้คนอ่านอย่างเรารู้สึกตื่นเต้นตลอดเวลาที่อ่าน แต่ถ้าคิดอีกแง่น่ะหรอ...มันก็ทำให้เรางงมาก(ก.ไก่ล้านตัว)เลยน่ะสิ ถ้าไม่จับสมาธิดีๆแล้วตั้งใจอ่าน คือจะต่อเนื้อเรื่องไม่ติด จำได้เป็นฉากๆแต่มองไม่เห็นภาพรวมทั้งหมดของหนังสืออย่างที่เราได้บอกไปว่าช่วงแรกของ The Red Pyramid น่าตื่นเต้นมากๆ แต่พอถึงตรงกลางเรื่องเรากลับรู้สึกเฉยชา ด้วยสไตล์การเขียนของริคที่นิยมผูกเนื้อเรื่องให้เป็นเควสต่อเควส คือให้ตัวละครทำเควสนี้เพื่อเก็บไอเท็มที่ใช้ในเควสต่อไปที่จะนำไปสู่การกำจัดบอสใหญ่ในเนื้อเรื่อง ซึ่งถ้าเป็นเกมส์มันจะสนุกมาก แต่เมื่อมาเป็นนิยาย...เราเลยรู้สึกว่าบางครั้งก็ทำให้โทนนิยายมันดูเรียบมากเกินไป แม้ว่าจะใส่สถานการณ์ที่ทำให้มันต่างกันก็ตาม แต่ความรู้สึกและอารมณ์ที่ถ่ายทอดออกมาจากหน้าหนังสือมันไม่ต่างไปด้วยเลยจริงๆแน่นอนว่า...คนอ่านหลายคนต้องอดเปรียบเทียบชุดนี้กับเพอร์ซีย์ไม่ได้ และด้วยความที่เราอ่านเพอร์ซีย์จบมาแล้วสองภาค (ซึ่งรู้สึกเอียนกับภาคสองมาก) เราเลยขอจัดอันดับความชอบตามนี้ Percy Jackson and the Olympians > The Heroes of Olympus > The Kane Chronicles อนึ่งก็ขึ้นอยู่กับความชอบส่วนบุคคลด้วยทั้งนั้น สาเหตุที่เราไม่ค่อยชอบ The Heroes of Olympus ก็เพราะตัวละครมากเกินไป ซึ่งตอนแรกดูน่าสนใจ แต่เล่มท้ายๆจะรู้สึกว่าการกระจายบทเริ่มสะเปะสะปะ และทำให้ความสำคัญของเนื้อเรื่องแต่ละช่วงถูกลดทอนลงด้วยเหตุการณ์หลายอย่างที่เกิดขึ้นพร้อมๆกัน รวมถึงทำให้โฟกัสของคนอ่านไม่ได้อยู่ที่เรื่องๆเดียว แต่ต้องกระจายความสนใจเพื่อไตร่ตรองถึงเหตุการณ์อื่นๆที่เกิดขึ้นด้วยสรุปแล้ว ... นี่เป็นหนังสือที่ดูเหมือนจะอ่านง่าย แต่สำหรับเรา...อ่านยากนะ ชื่ออียิปต์อะไรก็จำไม่ค่อยจะได้ พอเล่าถึงเรื่องเทพเจ้าก็เลยมีงงๆเอ๋อๆไปเหมือนกัน(view spoiler)[คาร์เตอร์และเซดี้ต้องทนเห็นพ่อของตัวเองถูกพาตัวไปต่อหน้าต่อหน้า หลังจากที่พ่อของคาร์เตอร์และเซดี้ได้ปลุกพลังและเรียกเทพเจ้าขึ้นมา โดยหนึ่งในนั้นคือเซตผู้ชั่วร้าย คาร์เตอร์และเซดี้ต้องหนีหัวซุกหัวซุนไปยังบ้านของอาตัวเอง หลังจากนั้นสัตว์ประหลาดหน้าตาแปลกๆก็บุกมาถึงบ้านพวกเขา คาร์เตอร์และเซดี้ได้หายตัวเพื่อหลบหนีปีศาจเหล่าได้ และได้ค้นพบว่าตัวเองเป็นทายาทของฟาโรห์ที่สามารถอัญเชิญให้เทพเจ้ามาสถิตในร่างของตัวเองได้ โดยฮอรัสได้สิงในร่างของคาร์เตอร์ และไอซิสในร่างของเซดี้พวกเขาต้องทำภารกิจต่างๆที่ได้รับมอบหมายจากธอธ หรือแม้กระทั่งอะนูบิสเพื่อเอาขนนกมา คาร์เตอร์และเซดี้เดินทางไปถึงฟินิกซ์เพื่อยับยั้งไม่ให่พีระมิดสีแดงของเซตสร้างเสร็จ ไม่งั้นความโกลาหลจะเกิดขึ้นและทำลายอเมริกาได้เลยทีเดียว คาร์เตอร์ใช้พลังของฮอรัสที่ประสานกับเขาในการต่อสู้กับเซต และเซดี้ก็รู้ถึงเจตจำนงของแม่เธอและมาช่วยคาร์เตอร์ขับไล่เซตกลับดูอาตไป แต่ก่อนที่จะทำสำเร็จ เธอได้เหลือบเห็นอโพฟิสหรือพญางูที่ได้ผงาดกลับมาอีกครั้งแล้ว พวกเขาจึงตัดสินใจที่จะไม่กำจัดเซตแต่ใช้อำนาจในการขานชื่อที่เซดี้มีใช้บังคับให้เขายอมร่วมมือกับตน (hide spoiler)]
The Egyptian gods as described by Riordan are very different from the Greek or Celtic gods I'm more used to reading about, and the heritage of magic from the Egyptian culture adds a very interesting twist to the story.
Conflicting stories can be equally true." It's a cool concept that allows the story, and imagination in general, to flourish.As an Urban Fantasy fan, it was interesting to see a few familiar elements used here and connected to Egyptian history or mythology.
And every kid's fantasy book has the same basic premise: kids against the world; adults out of touch, evil or helpless; a mysterious magical heritage to uncover; and evil to be conquered.
I mean, my sister is  the freaking devil's personification  a little bit difficult child but, still, I love her and I would be very sad if I could be with her only twice a year and we were pratically strangers to each other.I also didn't like when he thought that they had nothing in common and that Sadie never acted normal and that she was stupid.
And I really hated when he thought that Sadie was the lucky one because she was left behind while he was travelling around the world with this freaking father!
I would love to have a 12 year-old sister like that!
The Red Pyramid (Kane Chronicles #1) by Rick Riordan is a graphic novel for kids.
The illustrations are great, the fonts are easy to read.
The story is wonderful and easy to follow.
The characters are unique and fun, at least the good ones!
All characters were well developed and memorable.
I thought this would be a small comic book sized novel but it was a large, full length novel.
A novel and a movie in one!
Lots of surprises and action.
A great book for kids and us oldies that pretend to be kids!
I got this book from the library.
:)I am a huuuuge fan of Rick Riordan's Percy Jackson & the Olympian series, and those of you who love those will enjoy his new Kane Chronicles, too.
I was a little nervous at first, thinking it wouldn't be as awesome, but after reading The Red Pyramid I don't feel the need to compare the two.
But other than that it didn't really read like someone "talking".
No one talks that way." But, whatever.
At least it was an interesting idea.Over all––great new story, awesome characters, exciting and hilarious and all those other good things.
Hooray for Rick Riordan!
So, the reviews of this series are more like thisBut because I love Egyptology and want something to get me in the mood for The Hidden Oracle, I think I'll give this one a shot.I hope it's not as cringey as people have told me it is, but I'll be going in with low expectations anyway.
Mild-mannered, well-dressed Carter Kane is fourteen years old.
Dr. Kane is allowed to meet his daughter only twice a year and this works just fine for Carter and Sadie.
They have the power to teleport, play host to ancient Gods, shape-shift to anything from falcons to fruit-bats and above all…rescue their father and stop Set from unleashing his unique brand of evil nastiness on the world.
Just when you thought that he wouldn't be able to recreate the magic of Percy Jackson, he presents you with the winning combination of Carter and Sadie Kane.
this book, like so many of Rick's, is my childhood, so although his books aren't the best, there's too much emotional attachment to them not to rate it 5 stars. I had an amazing time reading this, so hopefully I'll be able to reread another one of his in the future!
In other books the characters have clear personalities.
I really think authors need to know that a long drawn out action sequence is just not good enough.Which brings me to the second problem with this book, the plot.
Why is it that children's books never have deep, intelligent, powerful, bad guys?
I like my characters to mature and progress, but again, if they have no personalities, there isn't much to improve upon.
I was getting tired of the book by the third of fourth person the characters met, and there was at least twenty more to go at that point.
I have read the Percy Jackson series by this author and enjoyed them, so I figured it was time to read something else by him.SynopsisSince their mother's death, Carter and Sadie have become near strangers.
A lot of research went into the writing of this book with a very gifted Author.The characters are all so very unforgettable.
I really enjoy that and being able to relate to them so well.I can recommend this book first to anyone who loves Rick Riordan's work.
Even if you have not read his stuff, you will still enjoy this if you love fantasy or magic.
