https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80670.Otherwise_Known_as_Sheila_the_Great
Definitely a worthwhile and enlightening read, but Otherwise Known as Sheila the Great is not a book that I could ever even remotely consider a personal favourite by any stretch of the imagnation!Now if you have never read Otherwise Known as Sheila the Great and are considering a perusal either for yourself or for your children, please note that this particular edition (which I think dates from around 2007) has (annoyingly and very much unfortunately) updated some of the technology, so as to feature computers and copy machines (both of which were NOT yet in use by and for the general public when this novel was originally published).
The kids really wanted another Fudge book, so I picked this one up because it was listed as the next book in the Fudge "series." Waste of time - Fudge is not in this book at all, and Sheila is not a main character I could root for.
We spent some time after reading the book talking about how Sheila would be happier if she would tell the truth and try to do something nice for someone.
Did some on-the-spot editing and skipping.
Oh, well, there were a few funny parts, and the kids liked anytime the dog Jennifer was mentioned.
She's a little whiny, quite insufferable at times, but feels like a real child.Most of the book is her life in a new town.
But she is a very real girl, and it's so refreshing to read a book where the child isn't a miniature adult or just a heroic template, a mini-conan or mini-gandalf, in a traditional fantasy novel.The only things that detract are Sheila's internal age, and Mouse.
One of the things you have to remember is that this is a thirty-year old book, and kids back then weren't as mature as they are now in some respects.
Thought Sheila was a jerk.
A recent New York Times article profiling a Georgia middle schol teacher who uses the 'reading workshop' approach to literature noted that the teacher: 'As a teenager...loved the novels of Judy Blume and Danielle Steel.
But in school she was forced to read the classics.' Here I thought I was working my way through the Judy Blume catalog because many of her books are viewed as classics of children's literature.
I'd rate Blume's work for kids just below Beverly Cleary's, which is high praise from me.
I don't think kids in any grade should have to read any one book, even if by Judy Blume or Beverly Cleary.
Otherwise Known as Sheila the Great by Judy Blume was the second book in the Fudge series of which I'm reading to my 5-yr-old.
You can't skip a book of a series!
I had forgotten what it was about, only remembering how much I loved the Fudge books, which I had read in fourth grade.
I often made comments like "Boy, she's really scared of swimming and getting her face wet!
One of my favorites as a kid, and even though my son is reading it at a much younger age, he too, loves it.
Sheila is a sad, dreadful character that while possibly an accurate account of some kid's childhood and thus an opportunity for empathetic understanding makes for a slog of a read.
The cruelty and lies that come from childhood fear and self-loathing come across as more pathetic than funny or endearing to this reader.
While Cleary's characters have foibles, they are always generally likable and you can see them learning and growing with each page.
Blume's characters learn in stilted fashion and leave me with a much worse taste in my mouth.
I'll take Ramona Quimby over Sheila the Great any day.
While Fudge is not in this book at all, and Peter is only at the beginning....the book centers around Sheila (who appears in all of the "Fudge" books).
One thing I normally like about books is that the main character has an arc...they grow and change throughout the book.
Sheila is as rude and annoying at the end as she is at the beginning.
Another thing I didn't like about this edition...the original was written in 1972, so they updated it with a CD player and a PC...but other stuff wasn't updated, and it just didn't work.
I loved this book when I was younger-- I read it a least a half a dozen times.
I found my old copy at my mom's house on Sunday and decided to read it again (it actually wasn't my copy since it has my sister Becky's name in it...
The book is completely falling apart at the seams-- the pages are loose and torn and wrinkled and it smells "old", which adds to the charm of it and reminds me of growing up.
I loved it when I was 10 years old and I love it now 20 years later!
This book was another good one from one of the best authors - Judy Blume. Great, interesting story and good for younger kids reading chapter books. Only thing is that Shelia is a bit self-centered and a tiny bit egotistical. Otherwise great.
The first book was so great and I loved it so much that I was happy to find a whole new series.
But this book ruined the series.Sheila is a spoiled brat.
I don't like her here though she was okay in the first book.
She is a terrible liar.
A kid of her age is not supposed to be a liar.
She doesn't even know lying is not a right thing to do.
I wonder why Judy Blume don't make her understand that very clearly!
I missed lil Fudge and fourth grade boy Peter Warren Hatcher whole time reading this book.
Loved the first book, I was so happy to find a whole new series..& then, this book ruined everything.. :/
In this book, my kids learned how NOT to lie away insecurities and how NOT to be a friend who is bossy, condescending, and arrogant. an adult can recognize that Sheila is insecure so she tells exaggerative lies about her shortcomings and inabilities, but kids see a child getting away with being a liar. We had a lot of discussions about being honest and kind to people who reach out to us in friendship as we read this book. Sheila Tubman is 100% an anti-hero and a walking object lesson.
But worse than a spider, is the little dog named Jennifer that the Tubman's will be taking care of for the summer.So far, Sheila's Tarrytown vacation is not getting off to a good start, but then she meets Merle Ellis, called Mouse, a girl her age who is pretty good at doing tricks with a Duncan yo-yo.
There is an awful lot of appealing, fun things for Sheila to do during her Tarrytown vacation, but will she be able to overcome her fears and get around her phobias in order to enjoy it?And after I read Otherwise Known as Sheila the Great, I totally understood why my Kiddo like it.
I don't know what order they were written in, but at the very most this appears to be a spin-off of Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing.Sheila Tubman, last seen being forced by Peter Hatcher and Jimmy Fargo to remove her name from the cover of a school report the three of them worked on together, takes center stage in this book.
(I had no clue about diesel mechanics.) My friend said, "See, even you know that!" So I made myself out to be more knowledgeable about a subject than I actually was in order to gain esteem with my social group, which was a total Sheila Tubman move.I don't know that Sheila ever completely gets over this character flaw within the pages of this book, although she does make some progress.
I kept thinking about how much I loved this book so I inevitably had to pick it up at the library as my childhood copy had long since fallen apart.
When I was a kid, I read Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing first, where Sheila Tubman was a minor villain of the piece so I was glad to find this book written from her point of view.
I think I may have to re-read the rest of the Blume catalog without delay.
I love you Judy Blume, wherever you are.
This is the second book in the Fudge series by Judy Blume.
She started this book as well as Superfudge, but she never finished them because she said that she just didn't get into them.
Until now.Sheila is whiny, irritating, and completely insufferable.
Our girls will squabble, but I'm so glad that they get along far better than that.
I'm not sure why we listened to all three CDs, other than to say we finished it.
At first I thought it was just because I am an adult, but our girls didn't like it either.
Basically I remembered the fact that they moved to the town where Washington Irving lived and that Sheila was terrified of the Headless Horseman (also dogs, for unrelated reasons) and I remembered the scene with the slam book.
The idea is that your friends should know everything you really think of them.
And who would ever think that was a good idea?But the part that resonated most with me as a grownup is just how scared Sheila is of things (dogs and swimming and pretty much a lot of things) and how she refuses to admit that she's afraid of things.
Recommended.*= Did you know there are two more Fudge books after Superfudge?
This is a little book about fear and facing your fears.
Sheila is afraid of many things and instead of admitting she is afraid she talks about how wonderful she is at everything and will not admit she is afraid.
A sweet little story.
I wonder if all the best books are about death.
This is not about death, yet it is about fear and fear is important to face too.
Sheila is your normal kid and this is a nice book for kids her age and it still holds up.
Sheila Tubman is a boastful know-it-all who is secretly scared of all sorts of things. Perhaps actual 10 year old children can identify with this character, but I didn't find her endearing. (My advice? Read Anastasia Krupnik instead.)There are some nice moments in this book -- and I did like the character of Mouse, and the poor boy who teaches Sheila how to swim, and the brilliant description of the "slam book" at the sleepover -- but mostly I just found Sheila bratty and annoying.
i remember loving this book as a kid. now that i've just re-read it i couldn't believe how annoying sheila is! at least in the end sheila finally admits to being afraid of stuff and learns to swim.
A good book for mid elementary years.
To be honest,I was in love with the first book of this series which is about Peter and his little brother Fudge.
This book features Peter's classmate Sheila.
The reason I liked the first book is because of Fudge and Peter's bittersweet relationship.
As this book is from a completely different angle,I couldn't quite enjoy it.
Probably because I expected the involvement of Peter and Fudge in this book too.
However,this book will be enjoyable for little girls who will find similarities of thoughts and experiences as Sheila's.
I miss fudge in this book and maybe do not enjoy it as much as I like the first book in this series because even as a side character in the first book, Sheila could not entertained me that much, nor in this one. Still kinda okay!
My kids enjoyed listening to this but not as much as the other books in the Fudge series. We didn’t like how much Sheila brags and lies, how mean she and her sister are to each other (and her friends too), and the fact that they all do mean things and cover up for each other.
Let's GO!!!! I finished
Sheila is humorous because near the middle of the book she insults Peter with a baseball glove
I really liked the book although I think the author could have made it longer and made it have a little more description in certain parts of the book.
I read this book series when I was in 3rd-4rth grade, an so I thought that they were lame and fully unappreciated them. I now realize that the perfect age group for this series is around 5th grade. Anyways I Lund Sheila a slob and a complete... You know.... Brat to put it kindly.
I did read some of her kid books as well, such as Blubber, but what fun this was to revisit as an adult.Sheila isn't the most likeable sort with her traits but this makes her more realistic.
Blume has such a way with words and making characters exciting for all ages in the most ordinary of circumstances.
Here there's some exaggerated humor that works wonderfully with the type and age.
I love how Blume always wrote a book perfect for the age group she aimed for, but used words and hints that adults would get and understand as well.
