https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34498.The_Truth
I think I've only read this Pratchett novel once before, and on the re-read, I enjoyed it more than I expected to.
The worst Terry Pratchett novel is still wonderfully enjoyable.
As a bonus, I think this book would be more accessible to new readers, as most of the main characters are new, and the older characters are mostly there for support.
As I re-read all the Discworld novels, one of the things that I appreciate more and more is their optimism.
After reading one of his books I get the feeling that the world is a good place.
Има и пети елемент, обикновено го наричат Изненада.“ Всичко тръгва от там как един наследник на рода дьо Слов изненадва аристократичното си и снобарско семейство с това, че всъщност не им иска парите и се занимава с нещо.
Първите две породи са в непрестанно противоборство ('щото в света нали трябва да има баланс, пък и как ще разберем кое е бяло, ако го няма черното), а третата обича да разглежда смешни зеленчуци (незнайно защо).
"The truth shall make ye free fret"  Despite their fear of that newfangled movable type, Ankh-Morpork has FINALLY gotten a newspaper!Young William de Worde is quite surprised when his page full of "things written down" is suddenly incredibly popular with the citizenry, and publishing a newspaper becomes a rather terrifying, learn-as-you-go experience. Should he listen to the advice of others or go with his gut?"Be careful. People like to be told what they already know. Remember that. They get u
Despite their fear of that newfangled movable type, Ankh-Morpork has FINALLY gotten a newspaper!Young William de Worde is quite surprised when his page full of "things written down" is suddenly incredibly popular with the citizenry, and publishing a newspaper becomes a rather terrifying, learn-as-you-go experience.
People like to be told what they already know.
They like to know that, say, a dog will bite a man.
They don't want to know that a man bites a dog because the world is not supposed to happen like that.
Remember - A lie can run around the world before the truth has got it's boots on.
intended to satirize journalism, government, free speech, and whatever else might get in the way.In 1980 Sting, lead singer, songwriter and bass player for The Police sang this:“Poets priests and politiciansHave words to thank for their positionsWords that scream for your submissionAnd no-one's jamming their transmission'Cos when their eloquence escapes youTheir logic ties you up and rapes youDe do do do de da da daIs all I want to say to you”In 2000, Terry Pratchett first published his 25th Discworld novel – The Truth.
It’s about a free press, the first of it’s kind in Ankh-Morpork, and about the social, cultural and economic forces that weigh upon us and all of our decisions.
I was astonished just now to read the following passage from a recent Time article about Donald Trump:Ask him about these struggles and the braggadocio fades to fatalism. “All I can do is tell the truth,” he says. “If that does it, that’s great. And if that doesn’t do it, that’s fine too.”Mr. Trump, please call me as soon as possible. I have an idea. And I think you'll like it.
Pračet mi je ulepšao ovih par dana! :) Sita sam se ismejala! :)
This was also terrific read-aloud fare thanks to the character of Mr. Tulip, who swears a lot.
Pratchett makes it clear that he isn't doing the old-fashioned removal of profanity with a dash left behind to show where the bad word was; his character's dialogue is self-cleaning, which leaves a lot of the other characters mystified.
It's a lot of fun to read Tulip's dialogue aloud with a solid working-class British accent and lean on that dash before pronouncing the "ing" part.
If you haven't read him before, this novel is a great place to start.
уже з анотації ясно було, що ця книжка зрезонує з моїми відчуттями від поточної роботи (і від попередньої, мабуть, теж). ох, як же ж я правильно подумала. і те, що ми намагаємося робити, і те, що намагаються робити ті хлопці зліва, і вагон ентропії, з яким доводиться розгрібатися по дорозі, – воно чудове й рідне. аж дивно, що пратчетт ніколи не працював у католицьких медіях, хоча, думаю, воно скрізь приблизно однакове: зоопарк, бестіарій, віварій і лупанарій в одному флаконі.ще третину задоволення становить український переклад. і дуже втішно, що нарешті можна отаке сказати.
The Truth is the second book in the Industrial Revolution subseries of Discworld.
The first book had been Moving Pictures and was one of my least favorite, so I was very pleasantly surprised by this one.
In this book, newspapers are introduced to Ankh-Morpork.
Meanwhile, there’s a plot against Lord Vetinari (yes, another one!) to frame him for a crime.
I really liked the main character, William de Worde.
Since the story is set in Ankh-Morpork, we also see some other familiar characters from the various subseries.
Most of the page time goes to William, though, or to the people involved in carrying out the Vetinari plot.
Коротко про переклад:- Знаєш, як перепічки називаються в Квірмі?- Ну?- Сасіска в тєстє.
One of the best Pratchett I've ever read. A bonus star for the Watch's appearances.
Це скоріше 4,5 ⭐Мені, як журналісту, історія сподобалася. Ця книга здалася кращою за «Колір магії», якось і персонажі скоріше запам‘яталися, і світ у голові краще промальовувався.Та й книга випхала кудись мого нечитуна, бо за останні два дні я читала по 100 сторінок на день, а це немале досягнення для мене цього місяця.Жаль тільки, що у мене більше нема на полицях книг Пратчетта. Влітку в Києві буду докуповувати усе, що встигли видати ВСЛ.І так, переклад - це щось! Дуже і дуже і дуже круто ❤
Це скоріше 4,5 ⭐️Мені, як журналісту, історія сподобалася. Ця книга здалася кращою за «Колір магії», якось і персонажі скоріше запам‘яталися, і світ у голові краще промальовувався.Та й книга випхала кудись мого нечитуна, бо за останні два дні я читала по 100 сторінок на день, а це немале досягнення для мене цього місяця.Жаль тільки, що у мене більше нема на полицях книг Пратчетта. Влітку в Києві буду докуповувати усе, що встигли видати ВСЛ.І так, переклад - це щось! Дуже і дуже і дуже круто ❤️
Дуже сподобалися: -Пратчеттівський гумор;-герої (улюблений - балакучий пес Гаспид);-український переклад із мільйонами прихованих цитувань, стилями, суржом, і мегакреативом;-бо про ЗМІ. Як людина, яка працювала в газеті, регочучи підтверджую, так воно і є. І взагалі першокурсникам журфаку обов'язкове до прочитання. Щоправда за ритмом текст не мій, тому, мабуть, так довго читався. Задинамічний, як на мене, але це вже дуже суб'єктивне. Але буду читати ще Пратчетта обов'язково!
Soon there is competition across the street with headlines like “Woman gives birth to snakes” and “Man abducted by Demons.” William de Worde however, is obsessed with truth, stories come flooding in, and soon he has hired Sacharissa as a story writer, and Otto the vampire as a photographer.
I personally find this to be a much better book than some of his earlier works because it feels as though it has more control over itself and doesn’t sacrifice for a joke except in some minor areas involving the bad guys.Speaking of the bad guys, we have Mr. Pin and Mr. Tulip… the bad guys from the Looney Toons, you know the ones… the big dumb guy and the little wise a__.
For one thing, the identity of who is behind the elaborate conspiracy is so easily deduced that it ruins some of the driving force of the last half of the novel.
Pratchett works too hard to make a few funny observances by compresing the timeline and making the story feel a bit rushed at points.Which a lot of this can be forgiven with Pratchett being his typical self and finding unique ways to put words together to be both thought-provoking and funny.
Once again, Pratchett has this way of finding just the exact right turn of phrase and combination of words to make what he's doing appear completely effortless.
The one in which Sir Terry foresaw the age of lying and calling it the (post-)truth and challenged the media to call fascist, racist scumbags on their hypocrisy, removing their power in the process. Well he got one part right, now it's your turn media and "news" outlets.
The book also benefits from some of Pratchett's best villains, and is an enjoyable and frequently laugh-out-loud-funny read throughout.Not one of my favourites, and the jaded reader may identify the flaws that would become greater as the series progressed, but taking it in it's own right it's a solidly good - even very good - novel.
You can read my full review on my blog.
Or you can read my reviews of any of the preceding Discworld novels in my complete reread project.
William de Worde, a ne'er do well noble who is ashamed of his noble heritage, has until now made his living by painstakingly collecting news and sending off a sort of newsletter to foreign peoples of import who are willing to pay him for it.
Then some dwarfs roll into Ankh-Morpork with something called a printing press, and suddenly, what if they printed a bunch of them and sold them for like, fifty cents?
And maybe pay some people to tell them things that are going on in town?
That's why the City Watch and Gaspode the dog gets involved, helping William de Worde and Sacharissa investigate the charges of embezzlement and attempted murder against Havelock Vetinari.Plot, Many Big Spoilers Ahoy!!
With the City Watch, Gaspode, and The Times following the leads, the New Firm and The Committee is found out out eventually (especially by the heroic efforts of William the editor and Otto the vampire with "dark light" iconography).
Prvobitno sam dala knjizi 3 zvezdice, jer jednostavno nije na humorističkom nivou starijih Pračetovih knjiga.
Pogrešila sam, jer Pračet, kao i svaki pisac, ima pravo da evoluira; u ovom slučaju krećemo se od specifičnog teripračetovskog humora ka satiri.
jer politika, to je cena hleba, cena mesa u prodavnici, to je nešto od čega zavise životi običnih, malih ljudi, koji kažu "politika me ne zanima"...
koji kažu "politika je dosadna, ima li nečeg smešnog u novinama?"...Naravno, volela bih da živim u politički dosadnoj državi.
Da ne moram da brinem hoću li sutra imati za 'leba, da znam da postoji pravni mehanizam koji štiti obične, male ljude, čak i one koje politika ne zanima.
April 3 2004Jan 1 2012Having read it twice, I feel like I should remember it better.***December 16, 2014The Industrial Revolution series-within-a-series are all devoted to bringing the Discworld out of medieval European fantasy and into the modern world.
This is the development of the printing press and newspapers.
It is a romp on the theme of great newspaper romantic comedies, with the clever aristocratic publisher solving a mystery, dealing with politics, and getting the girl despite a certain romantic obliviousness.
Окремо потішили моменти з дуже вдалим використанням фразеологізмів - про вампіра, у якого в бійці відвалилася голова і по тому він каже, що у складній ситуації головне не втрачати голови :) Чи про злодіїв, які, щоб проникнути в будинок Гаррі Короля, де пантрує зграя собак, мають не одну собаку на своїй справі з'їсти :)Друге, за що я полюбила цю книгу - журналістська тема і процес перетворення події у новину.
Не знала, про що книга, коли купувала, хотіла спробувати Пратчета "на зуб" і дуже вдало втрапила.
Навіть тим, хто боїться фентезі - ну, трошки тролів, вампірів, гномів тут є, але насправді це не та книга, де вигадки більше, ніж реальності.
Ти читаєш більше тому, що книга добре написана, ніж через інтригу.
І вже точно закортіло назвати «Правду» мастрідом для усіх газетярів.Окрім такої цієї теми — такої рідної для мене, ще одна незаперечна перевага роману — яскраві персонажі.
Чи Короля Золотої Ріки, який на цій Золотій Ріці і збудував своє багатство, але що то за ріка, я вам не скажу, бо раптом ви зараз саме їсте…)) Ну, ви зрозуміли, — тутешніх персонажів можна вивчати як унікальні екземпляри з колекції дивовиж і химер.І ще одна, суттєва річ, через яку варто читати і любити «Правду», — це неповторний гумор Пратчетта.
But money moves all, and as long as the Patrician sees no issue then it is time to proceed with this new venture.William de Worde has long told important people what is happening in the city and made enough to survive on by doing so (plus all the figs he can eat).
The public has to learn what role these papers actually play, and what role they play with the truth (sometimes in an over the top manner but this is a short book).I would suspect that this book is most memorable for most folk because of the pair of villains, The New Firm, Pin and Tulip.
Ще одна Анк-Морпорська історія. Так прекрасно, так по-пратчеттівськи.
This is now up there with one of my favorite Discworld books. I loved the humor and the characters. I found it funny that the further along William got with the newspaper the more demanding and shouty he got. If your familiar with Discworld this wont be anything new, its just another great Discworld book. If your not familiar with the Discworld, you really want to be.
most satires either don't look interesting to me or I don't like it when alot of others love it.
My sense of humor is a bit different sometimes haha.Well, *points at my rating* happy to see this isn't the case :).
A vibrant world that doesn't take itself seriously and plenty of laughs to go with the peril/drama when it happened.Two of the villains were a mixture of humor and menace, they had their own code and stuck by it...
A certain villain though, wouldn't poking in the eye with a fire poker.Some references I got and had a few good laughs out of, though there were probly others I didn't catch :).
If it's in the paper it must be true, otherwise 'they' wouldn't print it, would they?
The power of the press grows as the city Patrician (ruler) is accused of attacking and bludgeoning his assistant.If you're still a reader of newspapers in the age of internet there's nothing more telling about the power of the press then the automotive section headline.
The section is formatted just like the rest of the paper, but its always powerfully upbeat about the latest models of cars.
In most magazines there'll be a header along the bottom and top of the page declaring 'paid advertisement' because it so obviously is.
Черговий прочитаний мною твір Пратчетта. Автор у межах створеного ним фентезійного світу дуже вдало і цікаво показав зародження друкування та видавництва газет. Він спресував процес від початку друкування до видання періодики, який у нашій історії тривав століттями, буквально до кількох днів. Кумедно описав значення репортерської роботи, зокрема, фотографування. Паралельно розповів про змову з наміром усунення від влади патриція Ветінарі. Поряд із знайомими героями з'явились нові цікаві персонажі. Ну і щасливий кінець.
Все як в нас - журналісти краще розслідують ніж силовики.Улюблена цитата: "Суспільство - це зовсім не те, що маленькі громадяни, яких ви бачите з вікон. Суспільство мислить глобальними, суттєвими, чіткими категоріями. Маленькі громадяни просто крутяться під ногами зі своїми маленькими справами."
