https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3120995-the-secret-life-of-walter-mitty
I got The Secret Life of Walter Mitty as a free listen from Audible a long time ago, and figured this would be a great way to spend some 15 minutes before going to bed.
Walter Mitty goes through many exciting and adventurous lives with a help of his wonderful imagination that offers him the possibility to experience action filled moments middle of an ordinary day.
My interpretation might be way off, but it is the personal use of my own imagination that leads to conclusions of its own.I am not sure was it the story or Ben Stiller's uneven narration that took turns between bad and good, between too fast and just enough, but I did find this 15 minutes to be too messy and without much of an inspiration.
To every single one out there who's won wars, destroyed enemy ships, rescued the cat in the tree, saved the world, graduated from college, lost a few pounds, fallen in love and had their happy ending... in their minds.Because daydreaming is underrated.
Meet Walter Mitty.He's a Husband.He's a Captain of a Navy shipHe's a toughest man on the trialHe's the man who can a woman from distress and is a hero to all man kind.He's also worrying his wife, his co-workers, his boss and his shrink.Walter Mitty has dreams.
He's dreaming these events while driving, while shopping, talking to his wife, walking down the street.
But everyday life, everything that we see, feel, touch, hear generates this scene in his head where he is the hero to the story and he's living it right then and there!!
Shamelessly read in preparation for the movie.Genuinely excited for this.
This was the shortest audiobook ever, but I loved it! If you've ever wondered what's going on in someone's head, this short story gives you some ideas. Recommended!
“After all, we only live once— or do we?”I liked the movie too but it has been a long time.
Ben Stiller read this.
Good job.Edit: 7/26/18I have to say that one of my favorite literary characters of all time recently referred to another character that ticked him off as ‘ a Walter Mitty’.
For that set of you who have read or are reading the Pendergast series this happens in Blue Labyrinth where the agent has a discussion with a parking cop that I know wishes he could shrink and run away.
One more thing NOT to do to Pendergast.
James Thurber had me rooting for Walter Mitty from sentence number one. Adventure after adventure, Mitty dives in and out of wonderlands to escape his boring life. The Secret Life of Walter Mitty sort of reads like a children's short-story for adults--which is uniquely awesome if you ask me...
The narration was great and I thought that Ben Stiller did a fantastic job but I found the story lacking.
I really cannot believe that this is a well loved classic story to be honest.
Maybe I am missing something as I often do.Basically the story focused on a man who lives in a world of daydreams as his wife nags him constantly.
This story was VERY short and only took about 15 minutes to complete.
I haven't seen the movie but I wonder if this may be a case where the movie could be better than the written story.
This story was super short, but so beautiful! I was excited for the movie before, but now I'm even more excited because I'm intrigued to see how they make an entire movie based on what I just listened to. THIS BOOK IS CURRENTLY FREE ON AUDIBLE.COM. GO GET IT.
I have known about Walter Mitty almost all of my life.
Thank you, James Thurber for being the writer you were.I am so glad Audible and Ben Stiller brought him to life for me.
I listened to his story on the drive home from my daughters appartment last night.
I started it at the end of her driveway and finished just as I turned into mine.
I did not have to sit in the car to finish listening, as Ben Stiller had indicated that he has done, and as I have done so many times before.
Not great literature, but I had to smile because occasionally my 10 year old imagination takes over my brain as well. And it's hard to fault poor Walter, after all, he's married to Mrs Walter Mittty.
3.5A story for all those daydreamers. Walter Mitty has a bitter-sweet way of coping with life. There's nothing really wrong with his life. It's just plain ordinary, so he incorporates anything he sees or hears around him into his his daydream.I prefer reading to listening (my mind starts wandering), but the audio of this story is also wonderful. Highly recommended.
A way to take a trip in your coziest chair without more than simply using your mind.Walter Mitty is a regular chap who likes to day dream a few times a day; his adventurous second life is rich and riveting and so often interrupted by his whiny wife and life’s demands.
Mitty does his best to balance his wonderful imagination with the daily grind, even if his life isn’t too hard, his mental happy trips seem physical to his wife who is on a whole other plane ready to take his temperature.
This is a delightful story that can be read and re-read in a short amount of time and it will always be delicious and imaginative.- Kasia S.
I've read quite a few of Thurber's short stories (and the ones I've read do tend to be short stories in the range of about 3 000 to 5 000 words) and these are two of the best. Although Walter Mitty is by far the most well known because of the Danny Kaye film, The Greatest Man in the World is in my humble opinion the more fascinating and engaging story of the two, the title itself being hugely ironic. Anyway, both are quick reads and incredibly entertaining
This is a perfect depiction of man’s need for autonomy, individualism and self-assertion among the ranks of men … even when it is only through the magnificent realm of imagination and visualization.
Check this out:"Then, with that faint, fleeting smile playing about his lips, he faced the firing squad; erect and motionless, proud and disdainful, Walter Mitty the Undefeated, inscrutable to the last."How about that for an assertion of courage, valor and masculinity!
I’d throw myself out of the car after steering it towards a cliff if I end up with someone like her!The moral here is this: men will do anything for freedom.
Ben Stiller has a nice reading voice, which was a tad shocking to me, because I mean, it's Stiller.
The length of the story itself is shocking as well.
A 32 page tale(or 15 minute long narration) translated onto the screen as a full length feature?
Obviously a lot of liberties have been taken (as was the case with Where The Wild Things Are when it was adapted for film), and it'll be interesting to see what Walter gets himself into!I didn't find the writing to be all that amazing or the story to be all that engaging.
No better or worse than a hundred other short stories I've read.
Heck, I've read stories that knocked my socks off so hard...
Y elegí bien.No repongo el argumento porque es un cuento (o  short story,  como le dicen) muy breve y, además, algunos deben conocer las versiones cinematográficas (que no vi y que, según lo que leí por ahí, distan del libro).
Sin embargo, arranca una sonrisa y atrapa desde el principio, porque uno quiere saber qué está pasando.
Hay muy pocos personajes (tampoco se necesitan más, de hecho) pero Walter Mitty vale por varios.
Me abstengo de señalar otros detalles de mi agrado porque tienen relación con lo que sucede en el cuento.
A very short short story :D if you wanna know what's maybe going on in someone's head :D very light, different from the movie but still a good one
It was good that the story was in third-person because it helped control how confusing everything in the book was.
Then, with that faint, fleeting smile playing about his lips, he faced the firing squad; erect and motionless, proud and disdainful, Walter Mitty the Undefeated, inscrutable to the last." (James Thurber), this was quite confusing because of the amount of adjectives in this one, really long, sentence.
I also do not remember anything about a firing squad which just added even more confusion to the whole story.
The Secret Life of Walter Mitty by James Thurber, Narrated by Ben Stiller2.5 starsWalter Mitty always has his head in the clouds.
Ben Stiller did an excellent job of narration.
I’ll be honest I probably would’ve never read this short story or would’ve seen the movie, but after listening to the audiobook I’m quite curious about the movie.
I don’t really have a lot to say about Walter Mitty because the story is very short, but it’s free and it’s definitely an audiobook worth listening to.Whimsical Writing Scale: 2Audiobook Scale: 3Character Scale: 2Plotastic Scale: 3Cover Thoughts: It’s such an awkward cover, but I see what the movie covers were trying to capture.
The Secret Life of Walter Mitty (Novella) by James Thurber 5★♥I bought this very short ebook to read before I saw the movie.
It is very short.
But it was cute.
And boy Walter is a dreamer.
I am a little curious as to how old Walter is.
He's married.
And has a little bit of a bossy wife.
Or so that's what Walter thinks.
just about anything where Walter is the grand hero.I'll definitely reread this.
There was so much stuff in this even though it was too short.
I first read The Secret Life of Walter Mitty when I was just out of high school, and I found myself totally relating to Walter Mitty in a big way.
Not that I imagine myself being a surgeon or a pilot, but I often spend my time daydreaming and wishing for things that realistically will never happen for me.
This time I listened to the audio version with Ben Stiller narrating, and it was a lovely little treat (as the whole thing is only 14 minutes long).
I look forward to watching the movie again this week.
Booktube-a-thon 2016 challenge: Read and watch a book-to-movie adaptation [or] read a book that's older than you.
This book is not deserving of even one star. It is all confusing and puts and strange picture in your mind. If you are going to introduce the story don't start in a day dream with different character. The plot in the story makes no sense what so ever. Walter Mitty's wife is always rude which in so boring and mean.Works SitedThurber, James. "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty." Thenewyorker.com. Conde Nast 18 Mar. web. 12 Jan. 2015.
A SHORT, short story and you now I am not into short stories. Still, I liked it. Why? Because Thurber lets you escape with Mitty into his fantasy world, and you understand why he flees there. This has to be short, or it will be longer than the story itself.
You may read online here
I wish it is a Novel than a short story.
I thought that this short story was very good, because although it was very short, the reader was able to understand the main problem, which seemed to be that Walter Mitty was living in his head and day dreams, instead of in reality.
He was constantly thinking about himself as someone else, instead of concentrating on his own life.
However, I think that it is a little chaotic in the switches between Walter's day dreams, and reality, although it would have been even more chaotic if there was another point of view used.
"The Secret Life of Walter Mitty." The New Yorker.
It was an American classic, a short story written in 1930's.
I love how the prose became poetic, and how the author switched Mitty from an ordinary husband doing a weekly chore to become a surgeon.
There is something about onomatopoeia that made the short story appealing.
It adds up to the reader imagining how Mitty quickly triggers a daydream.
The thing with this short story is it leaves you a sort of a plot hang-over.
Yet proud.I guess this is what the author wanted to impart to the reader.
And he was proud of his creation.(view spoiler)[Thanks for the free audiobook and the newyorker archive.
Am I being terrible to say that I actually like the film better than the story?
I thought the film had a better build up, and was somehow more of a story than this short by Thurber.Reading the story I saw how great the idea behind it is.
The most interesting thing about it in my view is that it "gets" what it is like to be inside a writer's head.
So if someone asks me something, and gets the answer: "Huh?" it may be because I'm somewhere that may end on paper before long.
I revisited this classic by listening to the audiobook narrated by Ben Stiller. It's a fantastic, quick story. Who says imagination is just the stuff of childhood? I love the idea of imagination as an escape from the humdrum of daily routine. Plus Ben Stiller is a fabulous narrator. And if you're trying to make some progress on your reading goals this year, this will take you one step closer and it's totally worth the few minutes to read it.
