https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15957.The_Patron_Saint_of_Liars
It is also the story of the people who stay there--Rose, with all her secrets, her daughter, the nuns and the groundskeeper.
I loved the story of the place and I thought the writing was quite good.
I think, however, that I would have enjoyed the book a lot more if it was not for the main character whom I just didn't like.
I didn't understand why she did things, and I don't think she did either, but the author seems entirely sympathetic to her, which frustrated me.
I loved all the other characters, but Rose, on whom everything hinges, annoyed me.
I have mixed feelings about this particular Patchett novel.
I didn't want to put it down but I wasn't happy when I finished.I was totally sucked in by the story's opening but then the tone changed and the character depth faded a bit.
The turmoil the main character feels is never discussed once she finds her way to St. Elizabeth's, yet it drives the remainder of the novel.
Just as the story picks up steam again, it's over.
I hate finishing a book and feeling like I might have just missed the whole point.
Ann Patchett’s debut novel, The Patron Saint of Liars, is a beautifully written story about people, secrets, and lies.
Patchett’s writing is quiet and compelling as she shares the story of Rose Clinton, and how her lies affected her life and the lives of those around her.
This is not a story about Rose, or Son or Sissy.
It is not a story about a family; the reader will find that Rose, Son and Sissy do not live as a close family unit.
Neither Rose nor Son lives the life they imagined.
"Bel Canto" was sooo amazing (drop-everything-&-read-now fantastic)I just had to review the writer's earliest work (just as I did with M. Chabon). "The Patron Saint of Liars" is a bit tepid, about a place for pregnant girls that used to be a hotel and miracles and family secrets. Ann Patchett is religious and tries to inject this, her first work, with lots of godly goodness and extra (not extraneous) sensitivity. & her characters, though fully-fleshed and complete, have seemingly simple psychologies. This is an okay start for a great contemporary writer.
The Patron Saint of Liars is a story about a young woman who leaves her life to head to St. Elizabeth's, a home for unwed mothers on the other side of the country.
I enjoyed Rose's portion the most, although the likability of her character waned for me as the story progressed.
For a good portion of the "middle" of the book, I wasn't sure where exactly this was headed, but the outcome of the story, although a bit glum, was satisfying enough for my liking.
The Patron Saint of Liars is the third Ann Patchett book I've read.
The first time I did this was when Rose, the first character we meet, has just discovered she is pregnant and has run away from her home in California, abandoning her young husband, to go to a Catholic-run home for unwed mothers in Habit, Kentucky.
I'm not one to cry easily at books or films, but several times the scenes were so achingly real and so mindful of those people I have known in my own life, feelings I have had exactly the way the characters experience them, that I felt a tear or two roll down my cheek.
Don't get me wroing, I loved Bel Canto, and that didn't end happily either, but I actually thought this story would have been better for a different kind of ending.
But no luck.My biggest complaint, and this is kind of silly, but I thought the whole point with the healing springs story at the beginning was that the springs were going to heal the protagonists "broken" way of thinking.
Un-happy ending, not following through with the foreshadowing, and a stupid protagonist.All that aside, I still gave it 3 stars because there are worse books out there, and it did give me something to think about.
I was initially interested in the set-up, but your lack of deeper exploration into the implications of it made me bored and disappointed.
The book contains selfish characters whose reasons for being so are woefully unexplored.
I get that she felt stuck by religion and trying to do the right thing, but if that's the main/only reason, then that wasn't explored enough either.
Not the worst book ever - I was somewhat interested most of the time, and didn't *hate* the process of reading it - but definitely sub-par.
I just read this entire book in one sitting.
I do that when I am uneasy or feeling lost about something.
This book is sad and a bit uneasy itself, with all its themes of alienation and yearning.
There are some wonderful characters, especially Son, the second husband, and Cecilia, Rose's daughter, and Sister Evangeline, who serves as grandmother (and saint?) to Cecilia.
I'm not sure why I'd recommend this book since it is sad and feels sort of unfinished, but then, perhaps, that is the moral of the story...
This is a book that I wish I could discuss with other people who've read it.
This is the third Ann Patchett book I've read.
They weren't enough to put her on my do-not-read list, but for authors that I only like a bit, I tend to figure that if I don't like them by the end of the third book, it's not going to change, and I can gratefully set them aside.
Now she has a reprieve.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
The Patron Saint of Liars is Ann Patchett's debut novel. It is a novel about people, an intriguing places and full of secrets and lies. This well written novel is told through the eyes of three characters. Firstly, Rose who is an expert at leaving, even through she is with you, Son (Wilson), the handyman who marries Rose and Cecilia the daughter. I enjoyed this story but did not become engaged or understand Rose and her actions. Maybe the author wanted Rose to remain mysterious to the reader."Her life was like a deck of cards."
The story is set primarily at a home for unwed mothers out in the countryside.
Nuns run the show with the help of a groundskeeper and others who are as important to the story as the girls who spend several emotional months here, delivering life and then leaving.Hiding pregnancy and hiding paternity are lies that have been spun for millennia, but as in many of her novels, Patchett examines what the definition of family really is and how those fabrications impact it.
It makes it seem like Rose is the main character, when in fact, we lose touch with her halfway through, when she becomes a shadow of the character we've been reading about for 165 pages.
And the book leads you to believe she's found some kind of peace.Until halfway through, when Rose's character loses all coherence.
I do not understand why Patchett had her make these decisions, only to completley undercut them later in the book and basically ruin Rose's character.
The story centers around St. Elizabeth's, a home for unwed mothers in Kentucky in the 1960's.
The book is peppered with a cast of interesting characters, including the nuns who run the home, Rose herself, Son the caretaker, and the other expectant mothers who come in and out of the home.
It was a compelling read, not only to discover how Rose's past will rectify itself, but also how her years of story telling affect the life her daughter ultimately will lead.
Rose is not, to me, a particularly sympathetic character, but I did find her compelling.
Sometimes a book is written so well that you get a glimpse into a life you might have otherwise not understood. This is one of those books. Martha Rose gets married. She realizes that she does not love her husband, and begins to feel trapped. She finds out she is pregnant. She leaves. This begins the journey of the rest of her life.This book is about the choices that she makes and the impact that her choices have on others.
Soon it is clear that she possesses a quiet strength and a gift for cooking that the nuns who run the home, the fatherly handy-man and the other girls come to rely on.
But, the quiet strength is a wall behind which to hide who she is.
The novel is divided into three sections narrated by Rose, the handyman and Rose’s daughter respectively.
I would have preferred a straight narration; only Rose’s voice felt authentic to me.
Why would any Catholic nun refer to profession of religious vows as “taking Holy Orders” which refers to priestly ordination?
I don't think I had, but maybe I'd read another book set in a home for unmarried mothers.
Or maybe it is that I've read a number of books where a character walks out on family and home because s/he decides they are living the "wrong life", as Rose does here.
I also felt as if the book doesn't really address the question of how pregnant girls in these types of homes were treated - the nuns seem to be surrounded with a sort of fog of cosiness, with much of the book centred in the kitchens where an eccentric elderly sister and then Rose prepare delicious food.
Rose runs away from her husband and, almost by whim, moves into a rural Kentucky home for unwed mothers.
She stays there for many years, without revealing her past to the sisters who run the place, or the man she marries.
As always, Patchett has an excellent sense of place, in the run-down hotel where the sisters run their home for pregnant girls.
Her sense of time is much less assured; the external world of the US during the late 60s and early 70s plays virtually no role in the story, which seems curiously at odds with the story of unwed women facing childbirth.
Not by a long shot.At any rate, I enjoyed the book despite the central character being my least favorite type of character, a woman who seems to be "half a bubble off of plumb" who, upon discovering she is pregnant decides to ditch her loving husband in Marina Del Ray, California, jump in the car and take off for who knows where.
(Reminds me in a way of the Cheryl Strayed character who bails on her husband when her mother dies as feels the solution to her problems is to hike the Cascade Trail despite no experience or training.
Neither works."But I digress, despite the inexplicable (to me, at least) premise, I enjoyed the story and the characters.
She finds herself questioning her decisions and as she gets closer and closer to her due date, she's not sure what she'll do.The baby is born and the book takes a not entirely unexpected turn, but it's one that works and doesn't feel like a convenient plot device.
It's brilliant, although readers who like all loose ends tied up might feel cheated.I love when an author creates a character that I believe is living and has walked in reality.
I'm sure there are many who would disagree with me and obviously there are exceptions, but when I read a story I need to know how it ends.
And if not all spelled out, at least some really great hints, or at worst - an idea.This overall depressing book, which admittedly was well-written for the most part, just simply ended.
Everyone had ends that were loose and sad and unfinished.
This offered almost none of the above.It was OK, but I really wanted there to be more to it than there was, I need a reason for things, or at least resolution.
We listened to the audiobook of THE PATRON SAINT OF LIARS by Ann Patchett and read by Julia Gibson while making the 45 minutes drive twice a day to care for a family member.
Next we hear from a beautiful girl, Martha Rose, and her family living on the other side of the country.
Thomas teaches Martha how to drive and one day she doesn't pick him up from work.
After driving for days, Martha shows up at a Catholic "Home for Unwed Mothers" formerly known as Hotel Louisa.
We see a different side of Martha, now known as Rose, and meet many pregnant girls and several Sisters.
The struggle between Rose and Cecilia is especially poignant as a daughter looks to her mother for something she is incapable or unwilling to give."The way it seemed the fact of her beauty had never occurred to her and made her so much more beautiful...And I wanted it.
Their relationship provides the meat for the story.Patchett chooses to switch narrators several times throughout the book.
I am still not satisfied that Ann Patchett closes her novels as well as she starts them, but she’s come a long way since THE PATRON SAINT OF LIARS.
It's a girls’ story, colored by Catholicism and hopeful signs from God (for which I, too, have asked many times, especially in my early years.) Part of the setting’s time is the same year that I graduated from (my Catholic, all-girls) high school; the setting’s place, a home for unwed mothers.
Although Rose seemed destined to be “a Martha,” always working and doing, and her ending was less than happy, she continued to do what she thought was right, even though it meant leaving all she knew and loved, including her mother and later, her daughter.
After becoming pregnant she decides to mysteriously leave her marriage and travel cross-country to stay in St. Elizabeth's, a home for unwed mothers.
The middle is told by Son, a man Rose meets while at St. Elizabeth's.
You cannot help but love this man, even when you want him to stand up for himself.The end is told by Rose's daughter, Cecilia, during her teenage years (Son is considered her father and basically raises her).
But, Rose is a mysterious person in her life.
Cecilia is deeply frustrated by the lack of a mother figure in her life.I liked parts of this book.
What a great way to end my 2015 reading!This is a story about a young woman named Rose, she lives in California in the 60's, she marries a man but is never really happy.
The only thing that seems to make her happy is driving, she loves taking little road trips.
One day ( for reasons I cannot post due to it being a spoiler) Rose takes off on a long trip & ends up in Kentucky at a Catholic home for unwed mothers.
I can't say I enjoyed the book because I didn't like those emotions, mostly frustration (because I kept wanting to care, and to understand Rose and her motivations) and annoyance and anger with her.
I almost feel like I have to read it again because I must have dozed, or skimmed over the part where the author provides some insight to Rose's character(flaws).
Here's how I know this is a very well written book; I finished reading it months ago, and as I write this review, I'm every bit as irritated with Rose as I was on that day.
I wasn't really satisfied with this story. I was not sympathetic to the main character, Rose at all and never got to the point where I could understand her actions. The author didn't really give any reasons for why Rose acted the way she did. I just didn't like her. The story kind of plodded along, and we are left with the people that Rose left as casualties along the way. Not a bad story, but one I was never able to become invested in.
The main character, Rose, was such a selfish, unfeeling woman who abandons people she claims to love.
I wanted to shake her, especially in the end.
However, I absolutely LOVED Son's character, the man who loves her and her daughter unconditionally without asking anything in return.
This, paired with the setting (a sprawling hotel turned into a Catholic home for unwed mothers), made me love Ann Patchett's debut novel.
Plus, it allowed me to glimpse the 1992 version of Ann Patchett, and I found this equally fascinating.
Even though I wanted Rose to find healing in the end, this beautiful debut is on my keeper shelf.
This was Patchett's debut novel - her gift for creating wholly believable characters is definitely there, but I found this to drag along in many parts. It didn't "quite" have all that oomph to the story that I was anticipating. I did really like it mind you - I didn't care all that much for Rose, but did for Cecilia, Son and the nuns and girls at the St. Elizabeth Home for Unwed Mothers.
