https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191113.Don_t_Let_the_Pigeon_Drive_the_Bus_
Sorry, OKAY?
I'm sure that many readers can make well-thought analyzes of this book but : 1) I kinda hate that freaking pigeon.UGHH so annoying, I swear.2) I must have read it wrong : I don't see the point at all except making children yell NO!!
I mean, good for you, but in my experience, it's not something that hard to achieve now is it?
There are books way more interesting that get the readers involved.3) I must have seen the pictures wrong, because I thought that they were pretty awful, and HEY!
Still hate them.
Sorry.
(I tried it with 3 to 10 years old children)
As part of a Children's Readathon on my blog in August 2018, Don't Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus!
by Mo Willems was selected as one of the award-winning books to read.
It was a first-time experience thanks to the lovely Nina @ The Cozy Pages; she suggested this wonderful book.A pigeon driving a bus?
He tells everyone not to let the pigeon drive the bus.
As soon as the driver leaves, the pigeon tries his or her best to convince everyone to let him drive.
When he jumps off in frustration, the driver returns and leaves without the poor pigeon!What a lesson for kids.
When the bus driver has to step away for a few minutes, he asks the reader to keep an eye on the bus.
Easy work for sure, with only one golden rule: don't let the pigeon drive the bus.
Well, that pigeon is as stubborn as a mule and will do anything to get the reader to allow him to drive.
Neo laughed as he watched this pigeon get more and more upset, begging for the chance to break the rules.
He does not see it, but I have noticed many pigeon-like attributes in my ginger!
I read this book and thought to research some more on pigeons.All I found was, that pigeons' population is growing leaps and bounds. They are a mess to every car owners. They live where people are there to feed them and all they do it again create a mess.I can't imagine pigeons taking over the world and ruling over human beings. That's why it is advised not to let the pigeon drive the bus.
My grandson, Mr. H, loves the pigeon books! With this one he was supposed to tell the pigeon "no" every time he asked to drive the bus. But, Mr. H is a bit of a rebel. He kept telling the pigeon that as long as he was careful he could drive the bus. 🤷♀
My grandson, Mr. H, loves the pigeon books! With this one he was supposed to tell the pigeon "no" every time he asked to drive the bus. But, Mr. H is a bit of a rebel. He kept telling the pigeon that as long as he was careful he could drive the bus. 🤷‍♀️
The friendly bus driver entrusts the reader with not letting the pigeon drive the bus.
The rest of the story is the pigeon wheedling the reader to let him drive the bus.
Younger kids can just read the story and see the pigeon throwing a fit.
It’s funny, the pigeon’s silly and tries all the sorts of excuses and whining that a child uses when they want anything.
BUT the text also allows you to take it further: the pigeon says, “Come on, just for 5 minutes?” You can turn to your child and say, “What do you say?” and allow her to directly engage and speak back to the book.
This is one of these books that you start laughing when you read the title. The rest of the story is still over the top cutely ridiculous. The children must not be convinced by the devious pigeon and let it drive the bus when the bus driver takes a break.And I have to say that this kind of books are equally enjoyable for both my child and myself!
Now I have recently read “Don’t Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus!” which is actually Mo Willems’ first children’s book and is a Caldecott Honor book and it is about how the Pigeon keeps asking the audience if he could drive the bus after the bus driver leaves to run an errand.
I never get to do anything!”All in all, “Don’t Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus!” is truly one unique and hilarious children’s book that every child who love witty humor will definitely get a kick out of it!
A short but snappy story from popular cartoonist Mo Willems.
'Don't Let The Pigeon Drive The Bus' is guaranteed to leave you with a big smile on your face!
I am not ashamed to say that this story brought out the dramatist in me as I read it out loud to a mother and toddler group!
The best part had to be the glorious double page spread of illustrations showing all of the pigeon's techniques to convince you to let him drive the bus...
I won't give away whether the pigeon actually got his own way-you'll have to read the story to find that out!
This was my daughter's first exposure to peer pressure. She let that bus driver know that under no circumstance would she let the pigeon drive the bus. Then, when the pigeon was begging and pleading with her, she held her ground and told that bird to back the freak off.Well done. Keep that attitude when people are trying to talk you into buying smokes that cost $14.75 a pack.
So much fun.
3.5 STARS.
I thought this was a well thought out book, but I'm not sure how much of dear little Pigeon I'll be able to take.
Initially, I thought he was cute if rather whiny (The Pigeon Wants a Puppy!) This time, I thought he was borderline obnoxious and manipulative.
Which, of course, is the point, I think!
It was, perhaps, just my mood and perhaps sparked by the influx ultra-annoying and manipulative acquaintances in my life at present.
Still, I'm not rushing right out for more pigeon.
My 6-year old nephew is learning English, and I bet he's going to love this book... Or not, because it's too close to home... He's just like that little pigeon, all polite and begging when he wants something, and if you say 'no', he'll explode... But he's a darling, really.Anyways, great book to read out loud to little kids.
Willems takes advantage of every page in this story of a pigeon who really really (really) wants to drive the bus. Every page -- the title page, the endpapers. Even the copyright page says "all rights reserved for humans, not pigeons." The artwork is nice, a combination of thick black outlines textured as if drawn with a colored pencil, and smooth ink filling the outlines. Minimalistic, but gets the job done. Unlike pigeon (who doesn't get to drive the bus).
Someone get me some crayons and a word processor with Courier font! There is hope for me to become a published author, yet. :0) I do not understand why this book EVER won the Caldecott Award ( for illustrations), and with all of my analytic powers have yet to understand the significance of the storyline. Is it about emotional intelligence?A masked attack on "bird brained" people?Union loyalty?I am underwhelmed.
A bus driver has to leave for a moment and asks you (the reader), not to let the pigeon drive his bus.But the pigeon really REALLY wants to drive the bus... and he tries to convince you, he pleads, he begs, will he finally drive it?Hysterical, I loved the pigeon. Simple yet adorable book.
The illustrations and text will make children laugh hysterically as the pigeon gets more and more frustrated. This is an excellent book for demonstrating expressive reading.Received starred reviews in SLJ and Booklist.
Another wonderful Mo Willems book, that got the whole family involved. I've started reading to the kids over some meals, breakfast with cereal is a favorite one. It's gotten so that even one of my 2 yr old twins, Cole, has been asking me to read as soon as the cereal comes out. Willems is high on our list of favorites and this one was also read several times. Great illustrations and concept, it could almost be labeled a level 1 book for a beginner reader.
This book was absolutely adorable! The words were simple and extremely easy to follow. The rhythm of the entire book made it fun to flip the pages and keep up with the pigeons antics. On top of it, the illustrations were simple, which I enjoyed. Sometimes little detail is the best detail. I would definitely read this again and recommend it to others!
Very cute story.
My all time favorite children's book in the world! The illustrations, the simple writing, everything about this book is amazing. It really brought me back to my childhood.. 5 stars!! ❤❤❤
My all time favorite children's book in the world! The illustrations, the simple writing, everything about this book is amazing. It really brought me back to my childhood.. 5 stars!! ❤️❤️❤️
You practically have to tie my six year old grandson to a chair to read a story to him.
So my hopes weren't high when I brought this book home from the library.
I managed to read it to him once last night.
He joined right in to the spirit of the book, telling the pigeon 'No' over and over.
Then he asked to read it three more times.
He also asked if we had to return this one or could we keep it?
This morning he talked about writing a book called "Don't let the pigeon sleep in your bed".
Don't Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus! is an excellent example of a dialogue-driven children's book. You can't help but smile as the pigeon in question pleads his case for taking the giant vehicle around the block, perhaps because his reasonings are so similar to that of young kids' arguing style. The double-page, irreverent illustrations only add to the comedy of the pigeon's situation. A must for read-alouds in the primary grades.
When I first saw this book, I thought it looked dumb. I was so wrong! It is hands-down the funniest, most enjoyable book for Zoe and me to read together. She laughs hysterically at the pigeon's pleading and his spiral into crazy over wanting to drive the bus. Highly recommend.
I suppose I need to find a small child to read this one with because I just don't get it. But I can now cross one more off of the hundred best children's books list.
As the story opens, a friendly bus driver asks the reader to watch his bus, and whatever happened, Don't Let The Pigeon Drive the Bus. Of course the pigeon appears as soon as the driver leaves with one request, he wants to drive the bus.
Young children can read or listen to this story and see the pigeon try to cajole, weedle, whine and even have a major tantrum to get what he wants.
The illustrations are very simple, pretty much just the pigeon, but they did not need any more than that.This book was selected for a readathon I am participating in for Children's Award Winners.
I first encountered this book at a library story time, and it seems to me that's the type of audienc
This book was SO FUN! I read it with my seven year old sister and we were both able to really enjoy it. My sister loved that the pigeon “talked” to her and she happily shouted out the answers. I personally found the illustrations hysterical and the pigeon enjoyably annoying. It’s so nice to read a kid’s book that can appeal to an adults sense of humor too!
also do not ask me why
4.5/5A fun, quirky, and cute book about a pigeon who begs you to drive a bus. When you won’t let the pigeon, it gets it into its head to want to drive a truck
