https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1808330.The_Greek_Coffin_Mystery
The two authors who have taken the pen name of Ellery Queen are many things, but great writers they are not.
As time went by, and slowly as we are nearing the 100 year anniversary of the first Ellery Queen book, the appeal of Ellery becomes less and less fetching.
The Queens books are much better, despite the limitations I chalked up regarding the authors' abilities, than most of the modern fluff being sold currently.
What most impressed me here was -spoilers!- the apprehension of the false murderer and the amazing, step by step dismantling of what supposedly happened.
The only way I can describe him is that he's amusing on paper, but if I had to work with him in real life, I would probably go crazy.Apart from Ellery himself, another interesting feature of the book is that once all the facts are given, the fourth wall is broken and the reader is invited to guess what the correct solution is.
And there are absolutely no tricks here (obviously I didn't manage to guess it)Oh, and I also thought it was interesting how the first letter of each chapter title made up the title 'The Greek Coffin Mystery'I really enjoyed this book.
The first Philo Vance book, The Benson Murder Case, is about the first murder investigation Vance is involved with therefore the reader sees over the course of several books the development of Vance's relationship with different members of the police force.
S. Van Dine one learns to expect brutish and unimaginative thinking and actions from anyone who is a regular member of the police force or, indeed, who works for a living.The fourth Ellery Queen book, The Greek Coffin Mystery, begins with a departure from the formula used in the first three books.
The thing to understand about Ellery Queen is that unlike Nero Wolfe, Philip Marlowe, or Father Brown, there's not a whole lot of characters or wisdom to be garnered beyond the mystery, but when the mystery is good, it carries the rest of the book.Such is the case here.
A murder soon follows The book proceeds according to typical plan as Ellery ever the know it all detective and sets out to solve the case.
This is Ellery's first case chronologically even though there'd been other Ellery Queen books.
However, then Ellery delivers a brilliant summation of who the murderer is that is irrefutable--only for him to be shown wrong.
ENGLISH: This novel got me puzzled.
Ellery is in the same position for some time, but not as long as me.
In this intrigue, the maximum suspects succeed one another by accumulation of clues, until Ellery explains the final solution, which is totally surprising, but evident a posteriori.
Algo parecido le pasa al propio Ellery, aunque no tanto tiempo como a mí.
Se trata de una intriga en la que los sospechosos máximos se van sucediendo unos a otros por acumulación de indicios, hasta que Ellery explica la solución, que resulta absolutamente sorprendente, pero evidente a posteriori.
Once again, good plotting let down by poor writing.
A pity because the Ellery Queen series would have been brilliant had the writing been half as good as British crime writers' or Earl Stanley Gardner's, and had the characters been more real and endearing.Take Ellery Queen for instance.
And he goes around ordering not only the detectives of New York Police, but also the Asst DA.
At the end of the day, he is a mere police inspector, not the President of the US or the Mayor of NYC.
In this book, he turns out to be a joker.As I said, the plotting is very good.
One of the joys of reading Ellery Queen novels is that moment toward the end of the book when the narrator steps out of character and challenges the reader to solve the mystery.
I’ve read four of them now and I haven’t come close to getting the solution right.
This time I caught one of the red herrings with a fair degree of accuracy—which means I was wrong, but not as clueless as I sometimes feel when I reach this point.This novel is a slow read but well worth your time.
The book hadn't aged well.
Brilliant detective novel from the golden age. Although character development was not there (which is pretty common in golden age mysteries btw), the fascinating mystery and the logical deduction of Ellery Queen outclassed everything.
A wealthy art collector and gallery owner in a midtown Manhattan mansion in the 1930s (I think) is found dead, apparently of a heart attack.
No mystery there.
Well, so it happens in Ellery Queen's privileged world.
The first mystery, then, is to find the will and this Ellery attempts to do by eliminating every possible place except the coffin itself.
One mystery is solved, that leads to another, which Ellery solves, leading to a further mystery.
This is my first taste of Ellery Queen.
The puzzle aspect of the mystery is very satisfying.
Keeps one guessing, a good thing. Narrated clearly & well by Mark Peckham. Classic education is shown (proof of the dumb-down education). Loved the romp to yesteryear. I thought it was her... ╰(*︶`*)╯
Keeps one guessing, a good thing. Narrated clearly & well by Mark Peckham. Classic education is shown (proof of the dumb-down education). Loved the romp to yesteryear. I thought it was her... ╰(*´︶`*)╯
Great classic detection from the master ellery queen. In this book ellery investigates a possible double murder, great sense of time and place.
A classic of the golden age of mysteries, this book features both Queen's Challenge to the Reader and his trademark "false" solutions to the crime. Well done, but the explanation is a bit wordy.
3.5 stars. Too many plot twists and false arrest to rate it any higher.
A great mystery. if you can figure it out you are definitely smarter than me. It will keep you guessing.
I have been enjoying getting into the Ellery Queen novels since watching the older series on TV. This was an interesting case and very cleverly figured out as to how everything was done.
When a rich New York art dealer dies and his will disappears Ellery Queen is called in. When he has the coffin exhumed, a second body is found it. A good Ellery Queen mystery read.
I read this for the Q requirement in my book challenge.
I hadn’t read any Ellery Queens before, but I figured he’d be similar to Agatha Christie.
In other words, this would be a rather short tale with lots of detail and a nice clean wrap-up at the end.
Well, it wasn’t short, for one thing - 13 hours on audiobook.
There were actually three wrap-ups by the end, because the myriad details kept leading Ellery different directions.
One of my main problems with the book was Ellery Queen‘s personality.
By the end, I was all “Make it stop.
I was in the mood for some classic detective mysteries which prompted me to pick this up.
However, I feel the Ellery Queen books have not aged as well as some others, specifically Dame Agatha or Ngaio Marsh.
A lot of the dialogue feels badly outdated, and definitely even deeply non-PC, plus the worldview of the main protagonist lacks sufficient empathy, which makes some of the most compelling detectives more interesting.
Ellery is most interested in solving a logic problem, which ends up making him look smarter than others.
For now though, I am hankering for more cozy mysteries.
-No Spoiler Review - Excelente la fenomenización en la descripcion de las escenas por parte de los autores.
Resumida en pocas palabras : está hecha de verdadera Intriga - suspenso y misterio .
Una novela policiaca muy bien lograda , y cerrada a posibles "soluciones apresuradas " por parte del lector , todo un desafío de intriga para el consumidor de novela negra .
Es Mi primera experiencia con Ellery Queen , y a mi parecer es un Detective : jovial , divertido , sarcástico , sagaz , culto y conocedor de la materia .
Ellery Queen ( El misterio del ataúd griego ).
This mystery from 1932 hasn't aged well - clunky prose and surprising amount of racism. The mystery itself is unconvincing and depends (as is the case with some other early Ellery Queens) on trivial and arbitrary details that the authors hope the reader has forgotten. Like an episode of "House", the book had three different false solutions before the real one, none of the four any more organically plausible or psychologically satisfying than the others. Not a "can't-put-it-down" mystery by any means.
It's good. Really good. And very clever. But... by God! How artificial the whole thing was! And with a 'consultant' like Ellery, as described by the authors, who needs a master criminal to frustrate the Police?You know, I had been considering as to when exactly I would dump the whole 'locked room' mystery as a readable genre, for quite some time. Now the balance has finally tipped.I am through.
The degree of attention given to detail in the Ellery Queen novels really amazes me.
I've now read five EQ novels.
The books are called fair play mysteries in that all clues are on the table to enable the reader to solve the mystery.
Add to that the wonderful use of slang of the time and the addition of every day aspects of life unique to that time period and the Ellery Queen books are a great read.
The Greek Coffin Mystery was involved, interesting and impossible for me to solve.
If you are into mysteries that are intellectually challenging, I say go with the Ellery Queen series.
"The Greek Coffin Mystery is certainly a more interesting read than its immediate predecessor and I think the case is both the most complex and tricky of the first four. While I guessed at some developments correctly, I didn’t come close to the final answer as to what had happened and I felt things were tied together very tidily."For a full review check out my blog Mysteries Ahoy!
My First Ellery Queen The idea of this mystery was good, but the writing style plodded along. Before the mystery was solved, I was tired of reading it. Three murders and an art theft with the police bumbling along. Ellery's constant logic being vocalized was rather wearying. His end summation unnecessary.
This didn't really hold together for me in the end. I usually love locked-room style mysteries but this was needlessly convoluted. It had too many false endings which required you to drop all of the conclusions that were made before. As a result there wasn't that feeling of things falling together.
I did not figure out the mystery, which is always a plus! But being an older story, the characterization of Miss Brett, and the way other characters treated and talked to her, did tend to make me roll my eyes.
I guessed one of the solutions but not the correct one! A great mystery but the verbosity detracted from the tension somewhat.
Este caso si estuvo enredado.
One of the best whodunits I have read!
