https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16116.A_Question_of_Upbringing
1. -- A QUESTION OF UPBRINGING I am not sure why I am writing a review of this, for I feel only one hour or time period has passed out of the twelve of this Dance.
It is too early to say how I will feel as I am dragged along and try to keep my steps in measure.
The Dance cannot be evaluated yet and this first walk has not had enough time to developed into a courante either.Nothing much has happened.
We are at the infancy of the Dance.
It is youth really: Public school, p
I am not sure why I am writing a review of this, for I feel only one hour or time period has passed out of the twelve of this Dance.
The Dance cannot be evaluated yet and this first walk has not had enough time to developed into a courante either.Nothing much has happened.
We are at the infancy of the Dance.
and the Dance continues with the beat of those textual riddles.
(Goodreads)Intensely enjoyable – his dry, ironic descriptions are very funny indeed (The Observer)I would rather read Mr Powell than any English novelist now writing (Kingsley Amis)Tedious and overpraised (Auberon Waugh – oops!) It’s possible that a steady diet of Breaking Bad, Walking Dead,  Richard Price police procedurals, Cormac McCarthy and true crime has dulled my senses to the point where a series of diffident reflections on the interpersonal relations of several assorted rich British men from the early 1920s fails to completely engage my attention with its subtlety and understated humour.
What did I expect when I start reading Anthony Powell’s A Question of Upbringing?
Nevertheless, thinking it over, my lack of enthusiasm I imagine was due to the fact that I could not relate to Powell’s characters and could not identify with them.In this first installment of The Dance to the Music of Time we are introduced to Nick Jenkins, Charles Stringham, Peter Templer, and Kenneth Widmerpool.
Now to the second volume of his A Dance to the Music of Time, hoping that as his characters mature I will enjoy it better.
... well of course not everyone is going to get it the point is very subtle and grows on you slowly 
The first sentence of your Goodreads review must not ever pretend to be a newsflash.
Jenkins speaks for us, and he does so with enormous credibility.In a book that is built so tightly and minutely upon such an introspective character, it would have been easy for Powell to lose control of the story, and tempting for him to go slipping and tripping into the slough of solipsism that so often characterizes Virginia Woolf, Toni Morrison and many other writers who love to stay inside the minds of their protagonists.
A Question of Upbringing is unobtrusively and agreeably grotesque.
Grotesque as a style is a winning weapon.
In everyday life, the participants act their parts without consideration either for suitability of scene or for the words spoken by the rest of the cast: the result is a general tendency for things to be brought to the level of farce even when the theme is serious enough.Everyone is a bit strange but some individuals are just weirder than the other human beings.
It takes all sorts…The gates of life are wide open and the world is their oyster…
The young man's investigations and revelations will mirror not only his time at Eton and beyond, but also our own personal recollections of school days, youth, first friendships and first passions.The real tour-de-force for me in this first volume is how well Powell can fade into the background and allow his characters to take center stage, how Jenkins and his friends act and talk their age (how much autobiographical content is here?), leaving the clever interpretations and the deep introspection for the reader to fill in between the lines of the novel.
The question that is to dog Nicholas Jenkins crystallizes as he sees the gawky figure of his schoolmate huffing through the mists on a solitary cross-country run.
In this book one of Anthony Powell's 12 volume sketch of English life in the 20th century (A Dance to the Music of Time: 1st Movement), we are introduced to the characters Nick Jenkins, Charles Stringham, Peter Templer, and Kenneth Widmerpool. And if I understand correctly, the lives of these four young men will unfold for us over the course of this vast work. Their introduction, their start on this journey is inviting for the reader because they are an interesting group, varied in intellect and personality, and I look forward to traveling this literary journey with them.
A Question of Upbringing is the first volume in the twelve novel, “A Dance to the Music of Time.” In order, the books are:1. A Question of Upbringing – (1951)2. A Buyer's Market – (1952)3. The Acceptance World – (1955)4. At Lady Molly's – (1957)5. Casanova's Chinese Restaurant – (1960)6. The Kindly Ones – (1962)7. The Valley of Bones – (1964)8. The Soldier's Art – (1966)9. The Military Philosophers – (1968)10. Books Do Furnish a Room – (1971)11. Temporary Kings – (1973)12. Hearing Secret Harmoni
A Question of Upbringing is the first volume in the twelve novel, “A Dance to the Music of Time.” In order, the books are:1.
Also mentioned is a slightly odd character, named Widmerpool, who Jenkins meets up again later in the book, when he visits France to improve his language skills.
Although Widmerpool is identified as a figure of fun, Jenkins later reappraises his attitude slightly and it is demonstrated that he has both ambition and a strong will to succeed.Obviously, this first novel – the first in a three book sequence linked to the seasons as ‘Spring’ – is very much an introduction.
Or maybe, you like it so much that you are inspired to write poems or stories that the painting, sculpture or photograph reminded you of.Nicholas Poussin (1594-1665), a French painter in a classical style painting inspired Anthony Powell (1905-2000) to write a 12-volume book , one of the longest works of fiction in literature, entitled 
He wrote other works like his memoirs, bibliographies, plays and essays but no other novel although I am sure he has the time and imagination to think of other stories and I am sure people would be patronizing them.
All his life.This is how Poussin's painting looks like:
"A Question of Upbringing" is the first book in a series of twelve volumes of "A Dance to the Music of Time".
The book revolves around Nick's attendance at schools similar to Eton and Oxford (where Powell was educated), as well as a language-immersion summer in France in the early 1920s.The name of the twelve volume set is based on Nicholas Poussin's painting, "A Dance to the Music of Time".
In "A Question of Upbringing", we can see individuals moving in and out of each others' lives as if they were also dancing to the music of time.
I just love this series, and the first book is wonderful. I love the nostalgic meandering tone and the episodic nature of the plot. Powell is such a genius with characterisation.
The pages just kept turning. The establishing of characters and some brilliant lines and passages throughout. And some very funny incidents made me burst out laughing. This is the first book of twelve. Eleven more of this, almost too good to be true. I know they will all be brilliant, as I've already read A Buyer's Market before I read 'A Question of Upbringing'.
This seems like a serial book which I'll enjoy in the whole, more than each part. Any way, 1/3 done with the 1st Movement and 1/12 done with 'A Dance to the Music of Time'. I'm not sure if I'll read one book per month, or just dash through them. Probably, I'll chop the baby, and read it in a season.I'll review more later, once the kids are in bed, or at least off the computer.
A Dance to the Music of Time, Nicolas Poussin, 1634-1635, The Wallace Collection, London.At the start of Anthony Powell's series of novels named after the painting the narrator, Nicolas Jenkins, reflects on it in the first two pages of A Question of Upbringing:These classical projections, and something from the fire, suddenly suggested Poussin's scene in which the Seasons, hand in hand and facing outward, tread in rhythm to the notes of the lyre that the winged and naked greybeard plays.
The University of Chicago - not the most mainstream of literary publishing houses - rolled it out on e-book/Kindle for folks on our side of the pond - and, well, I'm glad they did.Powell writes beautifully (so, at least to my mind, his reputation is well deserved and his prowess on full display here).
(Apparently, by the time we get to the next book, our narrator is off to London, but time will tell.) We meet characters, we observe social situations, we ponder questions, we have limited recognition of how parochial our perceptions might be ...
A Question of Upbringing by Anthony Powell"A Dance to the Music of Time" is a twelve-volume cycle of novels by Anthony Powell, and "A Question of Upbringing" is the first of the twelve volumes.I've wanted to read "A Dance to the Music of Time" since discovering that Julian Maclaren-Ross features somewhere in the series as a character called X. Trapnel. Such is my interest in Julian Maclaren-Ross (I am, of course, assuming you have already read "Fear and Loathing in Fitzrovia: The Bizarre Life o
I say prescient as Jenkins hints at the ways in which their lives will turn out.What makes this book a delight is the beautiful writing, which really captures the era and milieu, and which is aligned to regular doses of humour.
Powell captures the transition of adolescence into adulthood perfectly: the insecurities, the naivety, the fast changes, the gaucheness, the way friendships may evolve and fracture, and how life choices made at this stage can shape whole lives.I suspect this series will get better and better and "A Question of Upbringing" lays the groundwork for what it is to follow.
I am reminded of how leisurely and flowing is Powell’s writing, how he concentrates on personalities and relationships, and how little there is of any marked plot - no particular tension, no “problem” to be solved, no crisis or denouement, no resolution.
This first of twelve novels in the series focuses on Nick’s life in school up to and including his first year at university during what would seem to be the 1920‘s.
The narrative seems primarily Nick’s memories, his reminiscences about them and others, about the continual changes and developments in personalities, relationships, and circumstances over time, all consistent with the overall title of the series, A Dance to the Music of Time.

I'm happy to report that Book 1 is an excellent start to this series, which bodes well for the next 11 books.
Ich denke, dass der Vergleich vor allem diesem ersten Band eher schadet als nutzt, denn EINE FRAGE DER ERZIEHUNG liest sich kurzweilig und angenehm, erweckt aber überhaupt nicht den Eindruck der Vielschichtigkeit und des Reflektionsgrades, mit dem die RECHERCHE von Beginn an brilliert.Der Ich-Erzähler Jenkins berichtet hier von seinen letzten Schul- und den darauffolgenden Universitätsjahren sowie einem Sprachurlaub in Frankreich.
Ordnung und Stabilität erscheinen als Werte, von denen man sich nicht vorzustellen vermag, dass der nächste Weltkrieg sie in Frage stellen wird.Abgesehen von der Schilderung des Werdeganges, den seine Schul- und Studienfreunde (voraussichtlich) nehmen werden, gibt es auch Phasen der Verliebtheit, die Jenkins beschreibt.
As with the best works in literature, I can't possibly be spoiling it for you by telling you about it, so please do read on.Jenkins goes to see Stringham in London but the latter disappoints him when he says that he has to go to a party which "can hardly fail to be rather fun." Jenkins tells him not to worry though he gets annoyed at this treatment.
Uncle Giles himself, sitting alone at the far end of this place, bent over a book, had the air of a sleepy worshipper, waiting for the next service to begin.
Powell's prose is, of course, a marvel, but what most surprised me on re-reading the first volume to DMT is how much of it I remember.
I'm usually not very good at retaining the details of books for much more than a month or two, unless I've been writing about them; with QU, I remember pretty much everything, so adept is Powell at creating memorable and charming characters with just a few sentences.
Nothing much 'happens' here, of course, which is hardly surprising, since not much happens in the first 8.25% of most novels, but Powell does lay substantial groundwork aside from the basics of his characters (particularly Widmerpool).
This is the first book in Anthony Powell's extraordinary 12-volume series, A Dance to the Music of Time.If you enjoy Marcel Proust, Evelyn Waugh and Graham Greene, you'll take to this like a Duke to Porter.
Waugh had a gift for conciseness - in contrast Powell is far more languid - but both styles are masterly.
I'm pleased to have read recently that Waugh greatly admired Powell, who must be one of the most underrated writers of the 20th century.This volume, published in 1951, deals with the schooldays of the four boys whos lives dominate the entire series.
I enjoyed this book very much and have now moved on to the second volume of A Dance to the Music of Time.
I did enjoy his descriptions of people, as in this instance when he had arrived for a holiday in France:"...
obscuring even more thoroughly the cracked and scarred windscreen, which seemed to have had several bullets put through it in the past: perhaps during the retreat from Moscow."I look forward to spending time with Nicholas and the many people who cross and recross his path through life.
I very much enjoyed the first book of this twelve book series.
I am planning to read one per month over the course of 2016 (not my plan, am reading with a group, but it's a brilliant plan).
The writing is delicious and although it is not plot driven, I found myself looking forward to stepping into the memories of Nick Jenkins each evening.
In addition, it brings to mind so many other books I've enjoyed including Brideshead Revisited, The Forsyte Saga, Of Human Bondage, the Harry Potter series.
So I very much look forward to my year of reading Dance to the Music of Time after this rather engaging start.
I think I enjoyed this re-read more than the first time, as I knew there wouldn't be much action and I just let it wash over me, enjoying Powell's prose and immersing myself in one experience of England in the 20s.
Part one of a long series of totally awesome novels, where the same characters are traced as they grow up between the wars in London. I like short novels connected together into a longer read, which is why I consider this series to be utterly awesome. It approaches the outer limits of awesomeness.
My first reading of this first book in the sequence was very disappointing; the very few characters that I most identified with seemed to be those most mocked by the author.
After speeding through St Aubyn's Patrick Melrose novels and enjoying them, I thought that I should give the Powell sequence, which the Melrose novels were constantly compared to, a second chance.A Question of Upbringing hasn't annoyed me so much this time.
The first of the Melrose novels, Never Mind, also seems to meander until one moment, and this then reverberates through the rest of the books.I will continue to book 2, which is more than I managed last time.
