https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/677788.The_Whig_Interpretation_of_History
From my perspective, whilst the past should not be viewed as a guidebook to 'learn from', and historians should not delve into the past in search of solutions to contemporary problems, the past undoubtedly does teach (but not in the didactic sense of the word)- whether on a personal level, with regard to family history, or on a universal level as a human being.
This comment follows Butterfield's discussion of how a historian shapes the past from their present perspective, not necessarily in the extreme distortion of the Whigs, but with regard to phrasing and presentation, so that the past becomes familiar and understandable to their contemporary audience.
Everyone interested in history should read this very short book.
Though Whig historians are no longer in the ascendency, this is a good antidote for reading history as if it were a story that leads to your particular view of the present.
I think everyone tends to read history as evidence of whatever they believe (certainly I fall into this often).
Great quote from the book."History is all things to all men.
She is at the service of good causes and bad.
In other words she is a harlot and a hireling, and for this reason she best serves those who suspect her most."
Butterfield is a superb writer, and is obviously learned. Reading this book was like watching someone put five coats of high gloss paint on a rotten board. Relativistic to the core. Put me down as a whig.
Butterfield's book is a seminal corrective of the bad habits of two generations of Anglo-American historians in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. He is especially useful for early 21st Cent Americans because he pushed against the cartoonish and reductionistic tendency to render Protestantism as "liberal" or "modern" and Roman Catholicism as "conservative" or "traditional."
|3.5 Stars||For Historiography and the Historical Profession|
I believe there is a middle way he does not consider here.In calling for historians to present the complexity of history rather than a simplified chain of consequences, Butterfield hits the mark.
I also appreciated his point that the past must be measured by its own merits and studied within its own context rather than in light of what it contributed to the present.
And he is right to point out that drawing simple, black and white moral judgments about past actions is a risky business.However, his extreme aversion to drawing any moral lessons or even allowing any teleological purpose to the study of history seem to me not only questionable practice but impossible to accomplish.

A much needed--still, after all these years--call for humility and restraint for the historian.
When we make statements like being on the “right side” of history or that those who fought on the side of the Confederacy in the Civil War were bad people, we make moral statements about history that do not include its many complexities.
While we can look back and say that the Civil Rights Movement was a good thing, we can easily run into trouble from a historical perspective when we throw the baby out with the bathwater in making overarching moral judgements on those who did not support the movement.
This has deeply impacted my trust in historical accounts.
What a beautiful little book!! Poetic and illuminating.
In The Whig Interpretation of History, Herbert Butterfield presages the hyper-political and hyper-moralizing nature of modern history and historiography, in which the past is measured by the present and history is shown as a linear evolution towards progress.
Working from an extended examination of the Reformation, Butterfield breaks down how a Whig (progressive) interpretation of history inherently dilutes historical inquiry into a simple chain of cause and effect flavored with a heady dose of moral indignation.
The Whig historian uses history as a cudgel to advance his own interests while beating down his opponents; the Whig seeks truth in simplicity and progress.
Butterfield argues that historians should write aesthetically rather than polemically, exercising "imaginative sympathy" in appreciating the lost worlds of the dead rather than seeking (or expecting) the vindication of their own current positions.
Butterfield spends too much space up front arguing that historians shouldn't seek out the origins of (or analogies to) current phenomena, but instead should point out the differentness of the past in order to make it comprehensible to us.
It is possible to use an origins story for aesthetic purposes -- and, I would argue, bringing the present into question may be the historian's most important task.
The Whig interpretation of history is always "present looking"; in other words, how does history support what the present "good." Butterfield also argues for the complexity of history, and that finding the cause or basis for modern principles (e.g., freedom) cannot be traced back to one person or event; history is comprised of complex interactions among many events, people, and circumstances.
I have read enough about that time in Cambodian history - understanding the time, people, circumstances - but I'm still willing to make a value judgment.
Maybe I'm not understanding Butterfield, but I think historical analysis must be more than descriptive or even interpretive...it must be evaluative.
A classic work in historiography. Butterfield decries the tendency of historians to interpret history as progressively cumulative in the present; or equally, to selectively use history as an ideological justification of "my views"; or finally, to anachronistically read their ideologies into the past so that its heroes were all fighting to produce the ideas they now possess. If you've ever wanted to throttle someone for claiming "all of history shows..." or if you've heard yet another sermon illustration that sounds perfectly contrived to make a point, you get the gist of this book.
Easily readable in an evening and best consumed whole, Herbert Butterfield's book is a wonderful indictment of the historical meta-narratives that are typical of 'Whig' historians. He rightly cautions us away from linear, progressive, value-laden, reductionist interpretations of history toward an approach that appreciates the diversity and the meanderings of the past and one that sees the events and people of the past as they saw themselves.
Excellent analysis of Whig history--that is, defining the past in terms of the present. The Whig historian oversimplifies and overdramatizes, trying to draw similarities between the past and present that don't take into effect the complexities of history. This book reminded me of why I love history so much: the beauty of a well-constructed narrative that embraces the complexity of history instead of trying to draw a straight line from Luther to modern religious liberty.
This was actually the second time I read this -- first was back in '93 but seemed like a good time to re-read it after finishing volume two of Macaulay's History of England from the Accession of James the Second, and it's a quick read. Great food for thought, however much one might like Macaulay's story-line of progress down to the present.
Lives up to its reputation. "History is all things to all men. She is at the service of good causes and bad. In other words she is a harlot and a hireling, and for this reason she best serves those who suspect her most."
This is a must-read for all historians. Butterfield presents a monumental thesis on our interpretation of history-- especially for Americans. It's a fascinating discussion of how history is written by the winners-- the protestant, liberal, democratic winners. One of my favorites.
The classic history text
Could have been half the length.
Interesting, but majorly repetitive.
I don't know how I feel about history. Butterfield's book is excellent, though.
