https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86888.The_Virgin_in_the_Garden
E questi libri densi, solitamente, io me li godo proprio, pagina dopo pagina.Le varie forme dell’arte, la letteratura, il teatro, le ossessioni per le spiegazioni onnicomprensive dell’universo e della società, l’incontro-scontro-incrocio tra religione e scienza (qui qualcosa rimanda anche a Angeli e insetti, oltre che ai successivi capitoli del “quartetto”); e come tutto questo si unisce ai rapporti interpersonali, alla scoperta-costruzione di sé, al sesso, alla famiglia: tutti i temi principali di Byatt mi interessano e ammiro la sua capacità di calarli in luoghi e tempi molto precisi.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b007jsfzIn 1950s Yorkshire, Frederica Potter, still living at home, senses that something exciting is beginning.
Stars Hannah Watkins.A wealthy theatre director is producing a play and Frederica Potter is desperate to secure a role.Stephanie is increasingly worried about her brother, Marcus, and the influence a teacher is having on him.
In coronation year, Bill Potter has trouble accepting his daughter's desire to marry curate Daniel.Stephanie and Daniel settle into married life, while sister Frederica continues with her acting.
Marcus and Simmonds' experiments begin to take on a more sinister nature.
As their experiments continue, Marcus becomes worried over the deterioration of Simmonds' state of mind.
I read this one in Chicago and was rather impressed with the juggling of perspectives and the sweeping use of the Jubilee and Elizabeth I throughout. Dovetailing erudion and emotional awkwardness made this a definite success.
Marcus, the youngest and his mother’s favorite, is inner-directed, even spiritual, awkward with just about everyone, observant of phenomena of his world--and becomes prey for a disturbed science teacher.The novel, which in general is slow moving and highly allusive has a surprisingly dramatic closing sequence for a writer who says she didn’t think she could tell stories.
And that reminds me that I absolutely loved the way Byatt handled time in the novel, the constant references to what different characters would do or think in the future, often with a date attached, usually in the 1970s.
This probably is the best book I will have read this year.
This book is dense - so dense I picked up a few other books as I was reading it, just to convince myself I did not become a slow reader overnight.
In the book that is strikingly intertextual and metatextual to the point of artificiality (in the best way possible, I had many a guilty giggle on that account), Byatt places her characters in situations we ache to see changed, and then - when no violent incident occurs, no decision taken, and what was to happen, happens - we are compelled to say this feels right and real.
Her work is never light reading, but it is beautifully layered and textured, erudite without being overpowering, funny but never really light-hearted; it's language to lose yourself in.Frederica is the character who goes on to become central in the later books - hence why this forms the first part of the Frederica quartet - but here she's much more part of an ensemble piece.
The mystical aspects which they were interested in are not something which hold much attraction for me; it also seemed curiously at odds with the rest of the book, where Byatt, for all her layers of literary erudition and allusions, is very down to earth.
Let me get this out of the way: A.S. Byatt is a great writer.
Her prose sparkles with learned intelligence, and her characters are sketched so well they feel like living, breathing people.
Normally, these are qualities I admire in a novelist, and in a different book (this being my first Byatt), I can easily imagine these qualities working brilliantly in her favor.
The whole thing feels like walking into an amusement park that's closed for the winter.
If only I could be allowed to get on." This will not be my last by Ms. Byatt, but count me disappointed for now.

Antonia Byatt è brava, mica no, ha vaste e profonde conoscenze, il mondo accademico di Blesford Ride e gli echi di Cambridge, così come, più in generale, il teatro, l’arte e la poesia sembrano il pane suo, ma in questo romanzo del ’78 non mi sembra che si destreggi con la dovuta disinvoltura nella corposa materia con cui ha arricchito la narrazione.
I'm not sure what prompted me to re-read this but something did. The beauty in the novel is in the use of words and description. The characters, while not flat, have an otherworldly quality about them.Which is pretty much how we see people in life when you think about it.
Each child essentially provides a parallel plot line: the older sister confounds her father by marrying a grumpy humorless young curate, the younger brother gets uncomfortably tangled up with a different schoolmaster, borderline insane and sexually paranoid, who sees the brother as some kind of visionary or conduit.The star of her own life and the book is 17-year-old Frederica, who is by far the most appealing character, although as headstrong and self-involved as only a precocious teenager can be.
It's hard to sum up, but essentially focuses on Frederica at 17, in 1954, the brash, book-loving daughter of a teacher-father with a domineering personality and very firm, progressive ideas.
Also followed closely are Frederica's older sister, Stephanie, a calmer, yet equally brilliant woman, who finds herself falling violently in love with Daniel Orton, a clergyman, to her father's utter chagrin.
This book is especially interesting to me in that it avoids stereotypes of what the 1950s were like, in choosing to examine this anti-conformist family, and people who aspire to an intellectual, sexually progressive, and artistic life.
This is my first read of Byatt and I found a wonderful mix of traits from some of my favorite authors in this work.
There are characters from the absurd, there is love, and misdirected romance and there is an ongoing under current of somewhat tounge in cheek humor.
Byatt at times is descriptive of setting to a degree close to distracting but she weaves a wonderful story of personal development for a number of her characters.
At times it is a bit of work to stay engaged but after a rather slow start staying with it becomes well worth it.
She further disappoints her intolerant father by falling in love with the local vicar, Daniel Orton.From BBC Radio 4 Extra - The Frederica Quartet:1/30: In 1950s Yorkshire, Frederica Potter, still living at home, senses that something exciting is beginning.2/30: A wealthy theatre director is producing a play and Frederica Potter is desperate to secure a role.3/30: Stephanie is increasingly worried about her brother, Marcus, and the influence a teacher is having on him.4/30: Stephanie and Daniel declare their feelings for each other but her father reacts badly to the news.5/30: In coronation year, Bill Potter has trouble accepting his daughter's desire to marry curate Daniel.6/30: Stephanie and Daniel settle into married life, while sister Frederica continues with her acting.
A dear friend recommended this to me since I liked Possession, and I fell for it at first blush. The first of a quartet about, hate to be trite here, but the making of a modern Englishwoman. The way each book treats different aspects of art (theater, painting, etc.) is engaging, as is following this cast of characters through -- what, over a decade? You will know these people inside and out and find yourself loving and yelling at them.
But I think my love for some of her books perhaps clouded my retrospective judgement.Today, 'The Virgin in the Garden' feels over-worked and a bit clunky (the obvious bits of authorial voice most particularly).
And the plot around Marcus Potter and Lucas Simmonds just bored me this time round; the denouement is still powerful, but the endless pages about the Nousphere lost me.Byatt does get you wound up in her characters though.
I still feel the dark mass of Daniel, and the helpless fastidiousness of Alexander Wedderburn (gosh, Byatt's adjectives really rub off on a girl).
This is the first in the Frederica quartet, and I read it out of order, after having first read #4.
It is exquisite and could hardly put it down.
Not the least of the fun was staging it during Queen Elizabeth's coronation, 1953, an event that was important to me as a young girl at the time.
There is not a single character that is not sharply drawn, believable, and sympathetic--even the "bad" guys.
You so understand what motivates these people to do as they do.I love her technique of putting a story inside a story inside a story.
Great literature.
Alcune scene (il matrimonio di Stephanie, il finale...) sono all'altezza della fama dell'autrice ma il libro nel suo complesso appare spesso prolisso e non sempre sorretto da adeguata ispirazione: a volte gli incontri, i rapporti sessuali, i dialoghi fra i personaggi si succedono l'uno dopo l'altro quasi in maniera meccanica, artificiale proprio come in una rappresentazione teatrale e non come nella vita.
Small town Blesford in Yorkshire, private school for boys.
Main characters of the novel are school teacher's children, two sisters and a brother.
Narrative space: staging of a play about the Virgin Queen.The village curate is in love with the older sister (who has a militant atheist for a father), both sisters are in love with a young teacher, and their younger brother sees the Divine Light and - out of the corner of his eye - the Eternity.Wedgewood porcelain and painted vases, sex and deviations, pastel colors and stark craziness, meadow herbs and family life atrocities, endless literary talks and rose gardens...
The Virgin in the Garden was really painful at times.
I seriously skipped entire chunks of pages, skimming quickly, and realizing I wasn't missing anything important.
Byatt takes herself so.
Seriously.
Some authors, like Melville, are difficult without being a pain in the ass, but Byatt can't pull it off.
But, pieces of the plot were intriguing, and Byatt made a somewhat respectable attempt at layering an Elizabethan play written and performed at the time of the second Elizabeth's coronation in the early 1950s, and the historical lifestyles of Britain's citizens at this time.
Supposedly it is better written, we will see...
While this may not be one of her better works, even a sub-par work from Byatt is a grillion times better than the works of other prominent fiction writers today.
Meanwhile, his play about Elizabeth I (who he seems to have a rather unhealthy obsession with) is being performed by the his fellow townspeople of Blesford Ride in a heady summer production.
Byatt's usual storytelling prowess seems to be lacking a bit with this one.
Here and there, the actual plot is integrated in, but seems to play second fiddle to the metaphysical aspects.
Despite this, I still love LOVE Byatt's writing style.
I also wonder if any of our reviewers below think Ulysses pretentious because of the thickness of its intertextuality and the demands it makes on the reader?The Byatt fan in the household reminded me that one of the Virgins in the Garden is of course Frederica; I noticed that Simmonds, SPOILER, mucking about in the bilge pond, covered with flowers, has become Ophelia [signif.
because, if you remember, his spiritual protegee Marcus had earlier played an affectless and terrifying Ophelia:]Also, SPOILER, Frederica decides to buy the pork chops and is uncertain as to whether or not there is such a thing as 'beef chops.' Also, SPOILER, the black turtleneck Daniel wears in the opening pages?
You never see him wearing a black turtleneck for the whole rest of the book!
I did not enjoy this book. The symbolism of Elizabeth/Frederica was unbelievably heavy handed and though I liked her character and the relationship between her and Alexander I thought her brother and sister were incredibly uninteresting. I barely skimmed the sections about Lucas and Marcus--it was so obvious where it was going and really hard to care. I wanted to like this more because it had a lot of what I loved about Possession, namely the exegesis of a written work of art as a character revelation device, but it just didn't gel.
This novel has forced me to pace myself. Like the other Byatt novels I've read, it demands your full attention. Aspects of it - like the Marcus/Lucas storyline - disturbed, irked, and thrilled me in equal measure. At points I felt Byatt was getting just too clever for her own good, only to be jerked back into complete awe by the adroit way in which she weaves seemingly superficially inconsequential with the deeply profound. What starts off feeling tangential soon becomes integral
One of my favourites; an homage to both Shakespeare and D.H. Lawerence.
He has a wife and three children: Stephanie (who has graduated from Cambridge and now teaches at the local girls' grammar school, which she attended and which her sister attends), Frederica (in her final year of school) and Marcus (who attends the boys' school).
Stephanie teaching at the girls' grammar is not part of that.We follow four storylines: Alexander, Stephanie, Frederica and Marcus (and, to a limited extent, that of Daniel, the local curate, who was the other man who attended the performance in the prologue).
Sentire di avere letto non uno, ma tanti libri insieme Il mini-vernissage del prologo per me è stato un fondamentale invito ad entrare nel libro perché già ricercavo i quadri citati, le storie dei personaggi e legami tra cose, quadri, persone.
E’ impossibile tentare di opporsi agli inevitabili-ineluttabili “riti di passaggio” di ogni mente, persona, relazione tra persone, nazione:  stava riflettendo sui due termini, nazionale e ritratto, ormai svuotati della loro potenza di significato.
Dialogano autori, scrittori, pittori, personaggi, attori, persone, uomini e donne, in un luogo o non-luoghi come giardini e sogni.Tutti i personaggi del libro hanno diverse caratteristiche e tutti loro hanno uno spessore, anche il loro modo di vestire.
I read this book many years ago, and I remember feeling befuddled and disappointed after having thoroughly enjoyed the author's then-recent Possession.
I also only recently learned that the main character, Frederica Potter, (also the main character of three subsequent novels) was born in the same county and on the same date as the author.
At one point she is told, "When you decide to be a lady novelist, and get set to write a long novel by Proust out of George Eliot, and it won't get up and walk, its words decay and real people turn out to be hectic puppets." Her own view of the present work?
I embrace Byatt's works like familiar friends every single occasion following my vastly memorable reading of Possession.
What I look forward to most in Byatt's work is the way in which a text grows the reader in knowledge and vision, as the characters rush through their own thorn-bushes of human life and ideas.
Regardless of the subject-matter that forms the focal point of any particular work (English drama, painting and sculpture, eroticism, royalty & etc.), one is bound to learn.
Eschewing the rush and hurry of a devouring mind, then, Virgin demands the deliberation, slowness, dedicated absorption of an intricate, erudite novel.
If anything, Virgin has more things -- from the vast array of consumer goods Frederica wanders through in the department store the telling furnishings of each characters' home -- that Byatt presents in cascading, multi-page catalogs.
The premise of the novel is that Alexander has written a play about Elizabeth I that will be performed in the locality, and that Frederica plays the title role before she is crowned.
The line between pageant and play, the idea of community and communal art, and the investment in Renaissance England all draw up that particular moment in the late 1930s and early 1940s that Jed Esty writes about in A Shrinking Island.
