https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365856.The_Courts_of_the_Morning
Mallory was reading it just before she shoots Archer I think.
With a bit of research it looked to be a pretty good read, and it was.
Buchan is pretty gay for the Boer war and anything Saffer.
Buchan has that early 1900's contempt for all things modern (at the time) in warfare, like tanks, which I disagree with.
I'd read Buchan before I gave Fleming a go.
So definitely a book better read than those modern army novels where the man is just an action figure with a lavishly described kit of weapons that he just has use to shoot somebody in the face eight times.
Still just as exciting when reread for about the 9th time!
This is being aired next Sunday (4/12/2011) on R4x if you are attracted to Hannay stories but it is not for me.
These three are morally superior to every other character in the book, they represent the British Aristocracy and they are there in Olifa to conduct a bloodless war with a view to overthrowing the corrupt government because corruption doesn't exist in Britain and so we have to go abroad to bring others into line with the British sense of fair play.
This aspect of the storyline is only added so as to not undermine Buchan's believed moral superiority of the British.The story is also padded out with a lot of scenery.
Published 15 years after "The Thirty-Nine Steps" with numerous volumes of fiction, poetry, biographies, and non-fiction in between, Buchan's novel is product of the milieu in which it was written.
With minor alterations, the setting could have been Africa, reflecting the early 20th century approach to "nation-building" which has continued to the present.
Worst of all was the "evil" genius behind the original plot who has a change of heart, becoming a pseudo-tragic figure at the end.My interest in Buchan's work is to build an understanding of the works published in the late 1920's in this genre.
2  * Not quite a 3. This one is a political adventure, not my cup of tea, so I didn’t find it as engaging or as enjoyable as other Buchan stories – at one point I just skipped ahead, trimming off 4 chapters, which didn’t seem to affect the story at all.
2 ¾ * Not quite a 3. This one is a political adventure, not my cup of tea, so I didn’t find it as engaging or as enjoyable as other Buchan stories – at one point I just skipped ahead, trimming off 4 chapters, which didn’t seem to affect the story at all.
Here the adventure is based around a coup in Olifia, a fictional South American state in the 40s.{Old ideas of America, seem like they could have been written yesterday}"Yanquis are unpopular in England?" he asked.
Twenty years ago the danger would not have been there; ten years hence, if all goes well, it may be past; but today, Blenkiron says, there is precisely as big a risk of a blow-up as there was in Europe in June 1914.{Buchan’s beautiful but oh-so-skippable descriptions}The tropic dawn broadened fast, though the sun did not show himself.
The pacing is slow in "book one," and many pages are spent following a character who is moving around the country not knowing is anything is going on.
I enjoyed the book, but not quite as much as the earlier Hannay books.I found it interesting to read a post-WWI book written by a British author which reflected so much of an outside view of how the world saw America at the time.
Put into perspective with the way America came together during WWII, the book's portrayal is an interesting window into the time.
Yet Buchan's political opinions (expressed through his characters, of course) and hard-to-imagine landscape descriptions were a little much, and were a bore.
The second plot--concerning Sandy and Barbara Dassent, Blankiron's neice-- was a little overlooked and didn't develop nicely at all.
But the other books with the couple in them make up for that, somewhat.:) It's an interesting read-- a bit of the philosophy is off, but I overlooked Buchan's thoughts, expressed eloquently on paper, and went on with the story.
Prescient as a lot of other Buchan work, this one set in an imaginary South American country where a multilingual highly educated aristocrat who speaks many languages, has a history as a WWI spy and enviable chameleonlike qualities that allow him to pass as most any ethnicity or social class, starts--you guessed it!--a guerrilla revolution in the highlands fighting for peasant rights and against capitalist domination, recruiting all his upper classd friends--whom if you are a Buchan fan you've already met doing aristocrat things like frolicking at Scottish castles--to participate.
This was not as good as the other Richard Hannay stories.
For a start, Richard Hannay wasn't in it - he was mentioned by the other protagonists several times, and he "wrote" the prologue.
Another thing was that the story seemed to go on and on and there was just too much description.
It seemed a bit like a primer for how to conduct a guerilla war which didn't interest me and detracted from the tension.
In the action pieces the tension was as great as ever and the story was a good one - just not Buchan's best.
I have to say that I really liked this - it is probably the best of the Hannay books I have read so far, although Richard Hannay actually has little to do with the story, except introduce it and notice that Sandy is acting oddly.
Maybe it was the change from 1st person, to 3rd person, narrative that did it, but I found this a lot easier to read than the others.
The story was a bit far-fetched, and I never really did get exactly why Castor was such a threat, but as a lover of fantasy fiction, I could forgive the weirdness and enjoy the story itself.
I probably should have read this before "The Island of Sheep". This book was first published in 1929. Hannay only features in the prologue but this book features many of the characters from the Hannay series. It is set in a fictitious South American country where a revolution takes place. The plot is far fetched and the change of one character from villain to hero is unbelievable but I went with the flow and enjoyed this adventure.
Not as instantly thrilling as the main Hannay novels but still an intriguing tale that drew me in and I enjoyed seeing the side characters take the reins of the story. Plus any book that uses hand drawn maps to detail the action gets my vote. Definitely wish I'd read this BEFORE The Island of Sheep though as it fleshes out Sandy's story and a certain recurring character's...
So the seeds of the British international thriller genre are here. There are great parts, but I couldn't get passed the idea of a civil war as a clever way to dispose of a bad man. Civil war costs too much.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:South American republic Olifa is rich in minerals and ripe for revolution. John Buchan's high adventure with Ian McDiarmid and Fiona Francis.
Just pick it up. Looks like another great adventure by John Buchan. Most of the story is in South America.
just not up to par with his other works. there were moments of action, but the story wandered.
My least favorite of Buchan's novels. I've read nearly all, perhaps all of them. A potboiler.
I've read a lot of the John Buchan books, all good suspense classics from another time. Well worth a look.
Disappointed in this one. Buchan did not excell in making a reader care about a fictional place, even when inhabited by great characters introduced in other books. Oh well.
I have read all of the Richard Hannay "thrillers" now. This one was a little too spread out for my taste.
Ok but the worst Buchan book I've read
