https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211264.Fludd
This one was another treat - a comic novel reminiscent of the best of Iris Murdoch.The book is set in the 1950s in a fictitious Northern Catholic village which appears to be situated in upper Longdendale, as it lies near the railway between Dinting and the Woodhead tunnel, and it has a bus that comes from Glossop.
So perhaps Hadfield, which will be familiar to fans of the League of Gentlemen, and I suppose one could make parallels as this novel gets quite surreal at times.The central conceit is that Fludd, a reincarnated 16th century alchemist, appears in the parish purporting to be a curate and transforms the limited lives of the local priest (who has lost his faith and his respect for his modernising bishop) and a downtrodden Irish nun.
I smiled when some characters received their comeuppance in this sweet little tale of a bishop and his modernizing push on a priest and his parishioners who don't want to be brought into the future, thank you very much. The language is a bit obtuse, weaving the story through hedgerows of density, so it was difficult to figure out what was going on, a hint about who Fludd really was on the flyleaf helped, although usually I hate spoilers.
One of Hilary Mantel’s early novels; this is quite an oddity and if you have a working knowledge of the Catholic Church, very funny.
The novel revolves around the parish priest Father Angwin who long ago lost his faith and believes only in the devil and tradition.
The combination of humour and symbolism is a delight; it does help if you have some basic knowledge of the Catholic Church, but the questions are eternal ones.
Sadistic nuns, an atheist priest, the saga of the buried statues (and their resurrection), devout (but ignorant) parishioners, a tobacconist who may also be the devil and the inscrutable Fludd.
Not all forms of love are comprehensible, and some forms of love destroy what they touch.”- Hilary Mantel, FluddAfter devouring Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies, I was ready for another Mantel.
Fludd is a small, tight irreverant novel about God, belief, love, faith, innocence and knowledge.
With Fludd, Mantel explores the silent and understated boundaries between faith and modernity, between innocence and knowledge, between good and evil.While, for me, this didn't hit as hard as her last two novels, it was worth the read to see her early efforts at historical and literary inversion.
A marvelous little book. I'm so glad I read it.
But I think this was written for Believers of a particular stripe--those who object to the Church's cruelty and narrowness and yet who want to keep its belief in magic.
First, there is a lot of comedy, not all of it black, though it arises in the depressing, sub-human world of poverty of spirit and intellect.
Not necessarily a problem with comedy, which can flit in and out of black realism very well in the hands of a capable writer (like Mantel).
So, I say this is for Believers who want a more human, more decent Church, but who don't want to give up on magic and the supernatural.
However, I decided it really was about time I read some of her work -- and Fludd was the first book that came to hand.In the mid-1950s in a ghastly English Midlands village called Fetherhoughton, whose shambling atavistic inhabitants regard themselves, probably wrongly, as at least superior to the denizens of neighbouring village Netherhoughton, there's trouble afoot in the Catholic church.
To this end he demands the statues of the saints and Virgin be removed from the church and insists he will inflict a new, young curate on the priest.
And then one day the new curate arrives, called Fludd, like the 17th-century alchemist .
A short novel of the first rank, funny and grotesque and, for me, oddly tender even at its most acerbic. I didn't see its criticisms--implicit or explicit--directed at Catholicism, specifically, so much as provincialism, narrowness of spirit, and poverty of imagination. In their place, Mantel gives us a world utterly compelling in its banality, tragic in its absurdity, and yet redeemed in its capacity to sustain wonder.
Consider this description: For shoes, the women wore bedroom slippers in the form of bootees, with a big zip up the middle.
Their legs rose like tubes, only an inch or so exposed beneath the hems of their big winter coats.The younger women had different bedroom slippers, which relatives gave each other every Christmas.
But gradually the fur lost its bounce and spring, and crumbs fell into it; by February its fibres were matted together with chip fat.In two paragraphs, Mantel has given us a complete sense of an entire community.
You know I'm in a bit of a quandary about 'scoring' this book...I did really enjoy it, but I had almost completely forgotten I'd read it at all, and I only finished it a few days ago!
I think it was just eclipsed a bit by 'Cannery Row'...Mantel tells the story of Fetherhoughton, a Northern mill village inhabited largely by 'brutish tea-swilling inhabitants', according to the blurb on the back cover.
I should really just stop reading book jacket blurbs.
And I'll read more Mantel.
The first half of the book describes the mundane travails of Father Angwin and a mostly miserable and impoverished group of nuns.
The title character Fludd does not appear on the scene until halfway through the book.
At this point, the reader won't know what the stakes are or why he's there or, indeed, where the characters want to go.
Father Angwin assumes Fludd is a priest sent by the bishop to help institute the new practices.
You won't know by book's end.
This book wanted to be more than it was.
At least, that's what I think I wanted.
With Fludd, Mantel reveals a kinship with Muriel Spark - the ability to crawl under the skin of an isolated community (in this case an entwined collection of isolated communities) and investigate its innards with a sharp wit and an understanding heart.
It is 1956 and in walk the change makers: the Bishop who wants the priest to succumb to modernity and Father Fludd who brings with him an altogether different kind of alchemy.
The world and characters of Fludd are so vividly created that we cannot help but accept whatever happens here, no matter how miraculous or absurd.
This was a Book Club book (not my pick) and while it was perfectly readable, I didn't really get it. Too much remains unexplained at the end of the book and there are too many loose ends. Was Fludd an angel or a devil? Or neither? I found the characters intensely annoying and the town they live in sounds petty and small-minded.I dunno. Maybe I read too many books that have a nice, neatly packaged ending and a moral worthy of an after-school special, but this book left me wondering, 'Is that it?' Not usually a good sign.
I liked "Fludd" very much indeed, particularly because I read her memoir a while ago and could recognise her descriptions of life in a village in the bleak north of England in the 1950s.
She has some laugh out loud moments and I particularly enjoyed her description of the Catholic church:"The Church was in fact less than a hundred years old; it had been built when the Irish came to Fetherhoughton to work in the three cotton mills.
This was - it must have been - the architect's view.
It was the second book of hers that I read, the first being Beyond Black another magic realism novel.
This book is an altogether different beast to her prize-winning tomes - short (less than 200 pages), set in the 1950s and of course magic realism.
The book (like some other magic realism novels) has been compared to a fairytale, which can be considered both a criticism or praise depending on your point of view.
Open the book at nearly any page and you will find a gem of description:The women liked to stand on their doorsteps.
The novel shows the dark side of the Catholic church, not the paedophile priests, or abused single mothers in laundries, or raped teenagers denied abortions, or the spread of AIDS in Africa, but the sheer futility of the idea of good and evil when every one, every thing is somewhere between these two states.
The first two thirds are fascinating and excellently done: a range of great if type-cast characters, including the witty, non-believing priest, the 'modernising' (read: self-serving) bishop, the downtrodden spinster housekeeper, the repulsive but somehow attractive proles, the awful senior nun.
Add to that the mysterious Fludd - who may or may not be the early modern alchemist, dedicated to effecting transformation in all he touches - and you've got a great mix of Muriel Spark, David Foster, and J.
This is very vexing, because the book is otherwise so very excellent.
A fun book, placed in Britain in the 1950s, at the start of the decline of the power of the Roman Catholic Church.
The story,set in that milieu, is pretty unpredictable.
Well written, nicely observed with well-rounded characters, down-to-earth yet fantasy at the same time.
Not a page turner, but an interesting read because it keeps you in the dark about what is going to happen next all the time.
No laziness or sloppiness here -as compared to many contemporary bestselling authors - but a writer who seemed to really enjoy herself in the world she created.
Will definitely read more of Mantel.
As if Barbara Pym had slipped on the clothes of allegory and mysticism. A waspish, witty but not entirely critical evocation of tired Catholic culture and one nun's release - via the enigmatic, alchemical Fludd - from her moribund state. The deadening, hopeless atmosphere of the book's Northern town setting is particularly powerful.
I have a theory that this is primarily a story about compassion (as in "Comfort ye, comfort ye my people", Isa 40:1) - compassion on a grand scale, not merely for the individual characters specifically affected by Fludd's visit but also for the undifferentiated masses, every wretched man, woman and child inhabiting this depressed 1950's British mill town.
For example, the crusty, faithless old priest, Father Angwin, is moved, as I read it, primarily by compassion when he resists the bishop's order to get rid of the statues of saints that his ignorant parishioners find comfort in - pleading with the bishop to leave a statue alone because their ignorance about its true, gruesome meaning (look up St. Agatha, brrr) is "a harmless mistake.
For me this book was just okay. It wasn't bad but it wasn't great either.
It is so refreshing having read some unfortunate dross this year to read a book and it is just so good, you want to read it again.
I came across this by chance at a guesthouse I was staying in, so I guess I've started off on one of the lesser known books, per chance.Set in the midlands (in my perspective, as this is south of Yorkshire, it sure ain't the north of England) in the 1950s, this tale takes place in a grim little village stuck out in the moors, where no one has a passion for the nature and landscape around them, or anything much else for that matter.
I could not make head or tail of this book. Who Fludd was, why he appeared, why the shenanigans with the statues of the saints took place, and everything else between the covers was completely baffling to me. Was this a critique of Catholicism? Of parochialism? Of modernity? Of faith? No clue.
Ricordo che la copertina era rossa, e per anni la trama che si era fissata nella mia mente era più o meno questa: in uno sperduto villaggio irlandese (o almeno, così credevo di ricordare) degli anni Sessanta (idem), fa la sua comparsa all'improvviso un giovane prete cattolico, all'avanguardia e in sintonia con i più moderni orientamenti del Concilio Vaticano II (ero piuttosto sicura che il Concilio venisse esplicitamente citato), i cui metodi anticonvenzionali sconvolgono gli abitanti della piccola e arretrata parrocchia che, in un crescendo di comici episodi, finiscono addirittura per crederlo un inviato del demonio!Come ho detto, lì per lì lessi quelle poche righe e non ci pensai più, mi dimenticai subito titolo e autore; però, come talvolta succede, certe cose, certe informazioni apparentemente insignificanti continuano incredibilmente a tormentarci con il loro ricordo nebuloso.
But like the novel's title character, Fludd conceals more than it lets on.Mantel takes us to Fetherhoughton, a dour mill town in the north of England.
When the titular Fludd arrives in Fetherhoughton, he is both more and less than what he seems, and he sets into motion events that will change the lives of Father Angwin, Agnes, and Sister Philomena, among other Fetherhoughtonians.Mantel narrates Fludd with a diction that is distinctly English even to these benighted American ears.
As Mantel makes clear before she begins the novel, Fludd is based on a sixteenth and seventeenth century alchemist, so the story must involve transformation.
What a disappointment; after the first few chapters of eccentric characters **SPOILER ALERT**(loved father angwin blurting out his uncensored thoughts to the bishop! and his solution to the loss of faith), i was rubbing my hands together with glee, anticipating a great story of strange happenings. Well, not so much. Sister Philomena became the main character and she was not so interesting. And then her life is changed by sexual awakening. And then he leaves her. HUH? That was just strange & very unsatisfying & ultimately not very interesting. The story seemed to peter out.
Engaging, but slight, particularly when placed in contrast to Wolf Hall. "The Protestants were damned, of course, by reason of this culpable ignorance. They would roast in hell. A span of seventy years, to ride bicycles in the steep streets, to get married, to eat bread and dripping: then bronchitis, pneumonia, a broken hip: then the minister calls, and the florist does a wreath: then devils will tear their flesh with pincers. It is a most neighborly thought."
In her usual oblique and telling manner of approaching human affairs, Mantel depicts the mixture of the banal and the psychologically odd in the belief system of a rural village. A minor novel masterfully told.
It was ok....Thought I'd see what else mantell had written other than wolf hall and bringing up the bodies.Nice enough in its way, but for me didn't really go anywhere...fludd wasn't enough of an enigma....
4.5The loveliest quote: "Not a word, not a word of love. Perhaps, she thought, he does not love in the ordinary way. God loves us, after all; He manifests it in cancer, cholera, Siamese twins. Not all forms of love are comprehensible, and some forms of love destroy what they touch."
