https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/541931.Conan
Howard.Howard had a fiercely creative mind and a burning work ethic that enabled him to crank out some of the most amazing pulp heroes and anti-heroes, including Kull, El Borak, Solomon Kane, the humorous Breckinridge Ellis, and, of course, Conan before taking his own life at thirty years old.It is an impressive run, and his characters continue to live and breathe for us almost seventy-five years after his suicide.Rereading the first Conan book, an attempt by L.
Although I would quibble over a couple of phrases – the top of a circular tower’s walls should be referred to as the parapet as opposed to the ‘rim’ and the use of the term ‘Arctic Circle’ seemed out of place in a supposedly ancient (pre-modern) setting – this was by far a better story than the preceding.The next story – ‘The hall of the dead’ – is based on an outline by Howard but was written by de Camp.
I was a teenage barbarian. I grew up in a world of might and magic, sword and sorcery. I learned at an early age what violence could accomplish, and that nothing gets you out of danger as effectively as brute force. I lost my parents at a very young age and wandered the land, living off of whatever I could salvage and slaying those who stood in my way, be they man or beast. It was a time of uncertainty. It was a time of evil. It was a time of adventure.  suarezart
Here’s some observations about the 7 stories that appear in book 1.The Thing in the CryptAs a kid, I only had a vague notion about why three different authors were credited on the cover.
It features Thak, the man-ape from the cover, and also the 2nd appearance of the deadly gas made from black lotus blossoms first used in The Tower of the Elephant.The Hand of NergalWritten by Howard and Carter, it features one of my favorite descriptions of Conan so far:“Naked, splattered from head to heel with reeking gore, he held a mighty longsword in one great, scarred fist.
Still the best. Timeless.
Some relatively pure Howard Conan stories mixed with pastiches. 2 and a half stars.
You see, the thing about Conan that I came to admire so much, something that I have no recollection of its being depicted in the film or two that I had seen, is that his manly ranging has a kind of simplicity that earns extra marks because Howard so often sets it against forces of sinister, magical cunning.
I liked it.
Maybe because they're short stories, or because they were written so long ago, I kept getting the feeling like I was sitting around a campfire listening to someone tell a story -- instead of being inserted into the story as if I were there.
Something kind of auditory/oral about them.Conan is described as having a thick alien accent.
Naked, but for a loincloth and sandals2.
It's very naked.
Conan's physique, nakedness and "smoldering eyes" are constantly described.
I very much enjoyed moment such as:He thought his heart would stop when a voice hissed in a barbaric accent: "Murilo!
Unabashed pulp fiction that doesn't fail to entertain.
This UK Sphere edition only credits Howard as the author, and it's only on the table of contents page that they admit that half the tales are at least half written by de Camp, some with Lin Carter.  The complete Conan stories, “Tower of the Elephant”, “The God in the Bowl”, and “Rogues in the House” are all classics of their kind. This was actually my first time through “The God in the Bowl”, which is sort of like a Conan box-episode, and it worked pretty well for all that.  “The Hand of Nergal
The complete Conan stories, “Tower of the Elephant”, “The God in the Bowl”, and “Rogues in the House” are all classics of their kind.
This was actually my first time through “The God in the Bowl”, which is sort of like a Conan box-episode, and it worked pretty well for all that.
“The Thing in the Crypt” by de Camp and Carter is kind of sideshow with a young Conan facing a re-animated skeleton in a tomb.
“The Hall of the Dead” still has a lot of Howard in it, which at least proves that de Camp is the better of these two posthumous collaborators.
Ein tumber Held reist durch eine Fantasy Welt und klopft sich mit Monsterspinnen, Zombie-Königen und anderen tumben Kämpfern. Ach ja, die wohlgeformte Prinzessin will natürlich auch ab und an beschützt werden.Irgendwie gefällt's mir, kann aber keine intellektuell zufrieden stellende Begründung hierfür anführen .....
Det är inte sällan jag blir överaskad av en bok.
Men att säga att jag hade låga förväntningar om honom är som att påstå att Indiska oceanen är aningen fuktig.Vad vet jag om karaktären?
Och två dagar senare sitter jag och funderar på varför jag aldrig läst honom tidigare...Conan är ingen smart filur, verkligen inte.
Han är inte fullt så tvådimensionell som jag fruktat och språket i b3rättelsen är både starkt och vackert!Jag blir bara glad när jag tänker på den.
Oavsett ursprung, kön, kultur eller hudfärg så är det karaktärens handlingar som bestämmer hur han bedöms.
I had several series of fantasy books that I read with friends and loved when I was a young teen.
Piers Anthony and Terry Brooks come to mind (although I do still like Magic Kingdom for Sale despite its faults).
I have been lugging the original 12 Conan books with me back and forth across the country for 20 years now and decided it was time to actually read them again--put them to the test, as it were.
Still, there was enough here to keep me going into book 2 and certainly a well deserved 3 stars, probably more like 3.5 stars.
Fantastic stuff.
The man was a poet.The Hyborian Age - Alternate history that shows the reader just how much imagination, fueled by history, Howard put into these stories.
That takes away from it, but it still is a great story that shows where the scene from the movie came from.
This is the stuff tales of high adventure are made of!
Conan, the young, headstrong thief, making a living stealing in the City of Thieves, Arenjun, decides to steal the most priceless jewel of them all.
The God in the Bowl - Very short story that illustrates more of Conan's character than anything else.
Surprisingly fresh, entertaining, and even tender at moments.
With one exception the stories don't even contain objectionable racial epithets, which is pretty amazing considering they were largely written in the 1930s.The best of these stories combine every genre of pulp fiction known at the time: Westerns, detective, science fiction, horror, historical, and adventure.
Conan is true to himself as a character, never trying to solve any problem with cleverness when a quick pounce-and-stab will do -- but also sticking to a fairly strict ethical code that often leads to him helping others with no calculation of reward and not a shred of self-pity.
Me encantó leer las aventuras de Conan, un Cimmerio, que vive metiéndose en problemas debido a su "trabajo" que es ser ladrón, a pesar de ellos siempre cumple con su palabra y rescata a la damisela en peligro.
Sus aventuras están llenas de magia, terror y suspenso.
En un mundo habitado por dioses y muertos que vuelven a la vida, no hay un segundo de respiro ni palabras de relleno, es pura aventura.
100% recomendado para aquellos que le gusta la fantasía heroica de pura acción que no tenga romance porque de romance en la historia un 0% (por suerte =P )
This is one of the Lancer Conans. Some of you will hate them because they are not only NOT the pure Howard stories, but they also include stories made from notes and pastiches by other authors. I enjoyed them, maybe not so much as the pure Howard stories, but they are good. I don't have all of them anymore and they are hard to find...if you can find them they are worth a try. Wish someone would reissue them.Okay! This is the first one!
Simple and direct sword and sorcery stories that have all the positive and negative aspects of pulp fiction. But their worth is more than the historial birthplace of so much of our modern concept of the fantasy hero, they are entertaining and satisfying short stories.
I have a ridiculous nostalgia for Conan as I read this series in my childhood. I decided it was time to revisit and collect all the original novels. Conan is a very simple minded hero with almost supernatural strength and cunning. I still found the character enjoyable after all this time.
Great adventure in the form of seven short stories with transitions which link the stories into a good group. The earlier stories were better than the later stories in the book.
Read this decades ago! These stories were well written with a grand protagonist!
Reading Conan is like listening to the story of a really good session of Dungeons and Dragons.
So reading these was a real delight.I initially started reading Conan with 'Conan the Usurper,' based solely on the fact that its cover is my favorite Frazetta painting, but after researching the publication and character, I determined that reading the series in chronological order was worth it.
I can't imagine reading this in any other way besides mass-market paperbacks with Frazetta covers.[SPOILERS]I think what has frustrated me in the past about other fantasies was how magic is handled within the world.
Tightly written stories with great descriptive elements and not overly burdened with character development or dialogue, Conan fights his way through an intricately developed world filled with fascinating places, each unique in its own way.
If Conan gets caught in an escape proof trap and gets out by breaking necks and stabbing people everyone is satisfied and it takes a lot less time on the writer's part.This is a series of short stories, all with the same basic plot.
He decided to steal it, gets it in his hand and then some awful death trap is triggered, requiring him to fight his way free.
And yet, I did not.This anthology consist of a number of short adventures in the life of Conan - and theoretically they are connected to one another, at least loosely.
For the whole duration of the anthology, I kept wondering why I should care about Conan's adventures, because none of them ever seemed to be of any consequence.
Robert Howard knew how to write action, and the scenes in which Conan is fighting are easily the best scenes of the whole anthology.
And Conan fights a lot.
It just seems a real shame that one can't write a book consisting entirely of action sequences.
Howard is a GOD.Why have these stories been popular for 100 years?AWESOMENESS GALORE!!!in your face action but not overdone like zombie moviethe atmousphere, the world building the feel n tone are unique among fantasy writing....no wonder its bene copied 1000 times!
Ladies you will feel a bit of male fan serivce if you will but its done well and not overdone like GOR or other things......
but hey in all honesty when men fought with swords hey u ladies were not the fulcrum of events......and could get beheaded quickly....thats just history...There are liek alien movies strong kik ass woman charactrs but there is no man hating man is guilty SJW crap.
This book introduced me to the pleasure and surprising depth of Howard's original Conan tales. It's easy to see why such classics have stood the test of time. Unfortunately, this collection also illustrated what duds Conan stories penned by others can be, though in fairness only the final tale in the collection is a complete dog. This book has inspired me to seek out collections of Conan tales _solely_ by Robert Howard.
När Äventyrsspel påbörjade sin fantasyserie Drakar och Demoner så öppnade de med första boken om Conan. Jag fastnade direkt för den svårmodige cimmeriske hjälten och jag har många, många gånger återvänt till den hyboriska eran. Trots att det har gått 30 år har jag fortfarande kvar den första pocketboken i snudd på originalskick - den har vårdats ömt trots många genomläsningar.
Boring, mindless, testosterone fueled hack and slash fantasy. None of the short stories provided in this collection are particularly interesting, but they can stray into uncomfortably stereotypical territory.
Des histoires simples voire simplistes, mais racontées sans prétention et avec beaucoup d'enthousiasme. Énormément de copier/coller d'une histoire à l'autre. Curiosité historique qui en première approche pourrait ravir des petits garçons de dix ans.
No me hizo mucha gracia. Se nota que se escribió para una revista. No está concedido como libro y algunas historias son relleno. Aún así es Conan y de vez en cuando leeremos alguno.
