https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11100035-the-bachelor
And people initially seen as hard or as soft and pleasant turn out to be the complete opposite.
And then who hasn't had the experience of initially disliking someone only to find they are really quite lovely characters?
That was how I felt about one of the women in the book, Alicia: she seemed a callous party girl in the beginning and ended up showing us her tender, loving nature as she blossomed in a lasting romance.
And I personally think Virago or some epublishing site should re-issue this book along with the rest of Stella Gibbon's work.Thank you for reading this review and for more reviews seeseveralbooksatonce.blogspot.com.
The Bachelor of the title – Kenneth Fielding, and his sister Constance own Sunglades; a large seven-bedroom house not far from London, though far enough to protect them from the worst of the bombing.
With them lives a spinster cousin Frankie Burton, who nurses the memory of her one romance when she was a young woman, as a woman once jilted, Frankie is the household expert on matters of the heart.
Kenneth too once had a romance, and Constance who considers her brother unsuited to marriage is thankful that nothing came of it.Constance is a complex character; a woman of high ideals, known for filling the house with foreign lodgers and promoting international understanding.
I'm still not sure what to make of this book...Some funny scenarios and one liners but overall the characters felt distant.
A classic that deserves a ider audience. All the comic caricatures of Cold Comfort Ferm but far more credible. Gibbons has a fine eye for detail, parody, mannersisms and the mores of the "petit bourgeoisie". Her work contrasts and compares favourably with Muriel Spark's Girls of Slender Means.
What a lovely story set in WW2.Stella Gibbons as an eye for character with witty charm.Who will find love?I was hooked from page one.
The Bachelor was an absolutely delightful read, set in wartime England and populated with a cast of quirky, endearing characters. While romantic (mis)adventures furnish much of the plot, the novel moves along briskly despite the day-to-dayness of the characters' lives. I was slightly wary of the 400+ page length, but rather than dragging, the tone remained sprightly and very humorous throughout, providing a read that was satisfying in both literary and entertainment value. A splendid read for the dark winter months, as its descriptions of the turning year are quite evocative.
For me 'The Bachelor' just didn't work for a number of reasons, and I was a tad baffled by all the praise for the book, which made me think I had missed something.I found the narrative messy because it didn't flow easily, and kept getting confused with who was who.
At times I was bored and only carried on because I was determined to finish what I had started, I didn't particularly warm to the characters, the story was lacking drama, emotion and that narrative bite that makes you want to read it again.
I certainly don't want to read this novel ever again.
Kenneth Fielding is a bachelor in his late forties who lives in a village in Hertfordshire with his unmarried sister Constance, and their cousin, Miss Frances Burton.
WW2 is raging, but Miss Fielding is a pacifist who devotes her time to trying to promote international understanding, and disapproves of her brother's involvemet with the local Home Guard.
Then widow Bbetty martin (who had been engaged to Kenneth when they were young, but jlted him) arrives to stay with her son Richard, an idealist who is not quite a pacifist, but can't fight due to ill health.
Vintage Gibbons. No one since Jane Austen makes you delight in an utterly selfish character as well as Stella Gibbons - her Miss Fielding could go several rounds with Mrs. Norris and not come out the worse for wear.
Molto molto carino e gradevolissimo da leggere. tutti i personaggi sono ben caratterizzati e definiti: concordo sulla definizione della scrittrice considerata la Jane Austin del XX secolo.
Overall, good with great moments.
This was published in 1944, not '48 (in the US, it might've appeared earlier in Britain). Dumb-shit Goodreads....
3.5 stars. Occasionally a little slow going, but full of hilarious, ironic prose gems.
