https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1786432.The_Home_Maker
Home-making is the noblest work anybody can do!''Why pity me then?' asked Lester with a grin, drawing his needle in and out of the little stocking.Evangeline Knapp is perfectly suited to be a successful business woman, while as a home-maker she is micro-managing, overbearing and miserable.
The enforcement of USian gender roles by the community leaves the family in a bind.The crystal clear scenario so crisply laid out by Dorothy Canfield Fisher is impossible to misunderstand; it is an extended feminist thought experiment that indicts the social body for policing gender, and asserts the value of autonomy.
Dorothy Canfield Fisher said that this novel was for the rights of children, not for women.
One of my favourites so far this year. I loved the exploration of 1920s gender roles, and the writing is smooth and brilliant, her capture of character's voices superb.
The idea of a woman being employed whilst the father stays at home looking after his children and making the dinner.
I didn't seem to be getting any closer to finishing despite reading countless pages at each sitting.
I do feel the book length could've been shortened.
I'm giving it three stars because some pages were wonderfully written, witty, warm and perceptive, whilst others were dull and a pain to get through.
I love Persephone books and it won't put me off reading them, but I will probably stay clear of this author in the future.
It was published in the 1920s, it is set in small town American, and yet it feels extraordinarily relevant.It is the story of the Knapp family – Evangeline, Lester and their children, Helen, Henry and Stephen.
Lester coped with all of this, and much more, quite magnificently.Evangeline, with her work to engage her, with her responsibility for housework taken from her, finds herself able to come home and relax and enjoy her time with her family.
An impractical man, better at spouting poetry than gaining advancement in his job at the town’s department store, Lester is never openly criticized by his wife, but she seethes below the surface.
When Lester is let go by the ambitious young proprietor of the local store and is subsequently seriously injured assisting a neighbour whose house is on fire, Evangeline seeks work outside the home, not surprisingly at Willing’s department store—where the unsatisfactory Lester formerly worked.
I discovered ‘The Home-Maker’ by Dorothy Canfield Fisher through the review of Nymeth from the Things Mean a Lot. I loved the basic premise of the book and couldn’t resist getting it.
Here is what I think.‘The Home-Maker’ is about a family and the interesting consequences of what happens when traditional gender roles are reversed.
Evangeline worries that she will have to give up her career, because if her husband is back to normal, he will have to go to work, as that is the norm at that time, and someone has to be at home to take care of things there and that someone will be her.
Evangeline Knapp is a smart, organized, determined woman, stuck at home in a role she despises; she loves her children, but she can't seem to sympathize with them, and her passion for cleanliness and organization has become an obsession in her house.
Her husband Lester, on the other hand, is a dreamy, empathetic man who would love to write poetry but who is instead stuck in the role of earner, in a dreary job at a department store.
The Home-Maker is a perceptive and often searing exploration of "traditional" family roles; Fisher is sympathetic to the characters and their dilemmas, but not at all to the society which forces them into the gender roles which make them miserable.
The radical, revolutionary idea at the heart of this book is that a man, not a woman, might be better suited to the real work of the home.
When Lester takes over home-life and Eva goes out to work, it is such a joy to watch them all begin to flower in their new roles -- including, in fact especially, the children.
The idea that raising children should be creative and sympathetic work is very much evident in this book.
Fisher skewers the idea that women's work in the home is 'really' valued, and every modern reader will understand her perfectly.
Read from OpenLibrary.org for group discussion.Oh how wonderful.
I read it all today, over a few sittings.
So relevant!
I always think of suffragettes and then a big gap and then Betty Friedan when I think of pioneering feminists, but here's a wonderful look at the issues from 1924.
Thank you everyone who chose this for our BotM!There are a couple of casually racist remarks that don't mean anything, and a few references to obsolete artifacts of century-old culture, but most of it is spot-on human psychology.
We've certainly come a long way, but otoh we still have our Mrs. Andersons and other dragging influences.
And there, I just made it sound boring when in actuality it's remarkable.I couldn't possibly get into all the issues it brings up - but one moment illustrates how punchy the entire book is -Lester, the father, is discovered by Mattie, at home, darning socks."Oh, Lester, let me do that!
You are telling me that you really think that home-making is a poor, mean, cheap job beneath the dignity of anybody who can do anything else." The man in this book gets liberated - what can I say?!
This book has made me feel so many things. I am definitely still processing. Published in the 20's, so much is still relevant today. Beautifully written and written where you have a full understanding of Lester and Eva. I have only heard of Dorothy Canfield Fisher this year with reading Understood Betsy. I don't know how it is possible she is not a household name or read in schools. How has a book like this or an author like her slipped through the cracks?
What a gem of a book which was way ahead of it's time with a father Lester, looking after his children while his wife Eva went out to work.I loved it and can highly recommend it.
Consequently, advice and pressure from the outside are always given on the basis of insufficient information, and have at least a fifty-fifty chance of being wrong.In the novel, one can see:--> the heavy, crushing impact of tradition (social rules that one is expected to respect) on a human being--> how different people can be from what is expected from them--> what is (should be) a motherhood (fatherhood)--> how big impact on children have parents--> women in the marriages.and also:--> passion of young (rather small) entrepreneurs--> the beginning of modern consumerism.It was one of these books that are perfect to discuss.
Fortunately, irreparable damage is averted when Lester, the father, takes over the role of homemaker." Reads the recommendation in The Gentle Art of Domesticity for The Home-Maker by Dorothy Canfield Fisher.
Without any preachment at all The Home-Maker manages to apply the concept of "choose what you'll love and you'll never work another day" to homelife.Fisher also illustrates clearly a concept that modern society tries to ignore: parenthood involves sacrifice.
Through her characters Fisher shows the different approaches one might take but she never ignores the implacable fact that being a parent involves sacrifice.
What a charming book!
For one, it was ahead of its time--depicting a family in which the woman much more enjoyed being in the workforce, the man better at being a stay-at-home Dad. Fisher was a Vermont writer and wrote extensively about Montessori school and childrearing.
She didn't see "The Home-maker" as a feminist book, but as a children's book--namely, that it represented children, their personhood, their feelings, more than it was out to make a statement about gender roles of women or men.
And she is a champion in this book for children, especially unruly ones--she seems to say that many kids act out out of a lack of understanding from their parents.
I would give this book 6, 7 or even 10 stars if I could!
This brilliant novel, in my humble opinion, should be required reading for every parent, teacher, nursery nurse and anyone in any way connected with childcare and education (politicians included!!).
This book reduced me to tears on more than one occasion (which very rarely happens) and resonated so deeply with my own views on childcare and parenting that I think it now sits alongside Pride and Prejudice and To Kill a Mockingbird on my all-time favourite list.
5 stars for Lester..at least he owns his hypocrisy while Eva is quite unconscious of itamd thinks she is a great mother which she is not...she is a dutiful mothet but Lester is tbe true heart of the family and it did irritate me a lot that Eva never acknowledged the superiority of his skill with the children, his achievments..its so unfair..just what attitude people have toward all homemakers generally I guess..an affection maybe but respect not always....
*3.5I really liked this story, for it really makes you think about traditional family roles and how society tends to reject deviations from standards, often pressuring people into being what they're not.The writing style is very rich in describing the inner thoughts of the characters, in a way that reminded me of Virginia Woolf. Sometimes these thoughts are dragged too long in my opinion; nevertheless, it is a very powerful and touching story, I loved to follow the unexpected evolution of the Knapp family.Modern and insightful!
In The Home-Maker, Canfield Fisher shows us first what life is like for a couple engaged in the roles society would have them play, and then in the roles for which they as individuals are best suited.
In order for a man to be accepted by society in the home-maker role, he has to have a reason beyond his desire to nurture his family; he needs to have no other options.
Eva is good at housekeeping and keeping her children in line but is constantly at her wit's end trying to keep it all going; her husband hates his job.
But, when a near-fatal accident means that Eva has to go out to work whilst her husband cares for the children and the home, each finds fulfilment beyond their wildest dreams....
Great story and a particularly advanced piece of thinking concerning gender roles in the family and the best way to raise children, especially considering it was written in 1924.
Found the poetry excerpts a bit tedious and unnecessary else I would have given it 5 stars - 9/10.
This is a feminist classic from nearly 100 years ago!
I'm shocked that I never heard of it before and never read it until now.
It really deserves to be better known by all who appreciate gender studies and gender issues.
It's the story of a man who is really more comfortable and better suited for being the home-maker, and the story of a woman who is really more comfortable and better suited for being in business.
The psychological impact on the children was so intense and realistic that it brought tears to my eyes.
Much of what is described in this book is still true today as it was in 1924.
This is a very quiet comfortable sort of read, it’s interesting that nearly 100 years later the theme is still relevant. Men are still expected to go to work while the woman raises the children even though it might work better the other way around.
3.5 stars
Western culture still has a great deal of work to do to allow for the model Canfield Fisher set forth in this compelling narrative.Lester and Evangeline Knapp love each other and their three children, and yet they are wholly miserable in the roles society has prescribed them.
He’s sceptical of capitalism, instead relishing the subjective thinking he enjoyed in his liberal arts education but can no longer put to use.All this changes when Lester is paralysed in an accident, leaving him housebound with the children while Evangeline finds employment as a sales clerk at the department store.
This book delivers exactly what it promises: a lovely story with an undercurrent of criticism of male and female roles.Dorothy Canfield-Fisher claimed the novel to be one focused on children and what is best for them, refusing to label it feminist.
Being a mother and housewife - trying to be perfect at these roles - truly wears her out.The novel illustrates the situation before Lester's fall thoroughly, making sure that the unhappiness of all characters, including the children, is understood and sympathised with.
One develops a nervous stomach, constantly getting sick, one is quiet and shy, and the last becomes a "terror", causing mayhem to feel in control.When an accident causes Lester to have to stay home in a wheel-chair and become a home-maker, Evangeline goes out and finds a job selling clothes in a department store.
As someone who loves her job and would go positively crazy having to stay home and raise children, I could really relate to Evangeline and the suffocating feeling her life had before Lester's accident.
This novel opens with Mrs. Knapp preparing an ordinary dinner for her family, but it reads like an ulcer-inducing horror story because her soul is so tortured by the job of homemaker.
Meanwhile, poetry-loving Mr. Knapp is similarly tortured by having to be the breadwinner.
You might ask, Why did this mystic with deep ethical objections to consumer culture and this ambitious woman who cares obsessively about appearances ever get married to begin with?
Don’t bother asking.
Worth reading!
La autora describe magistralmente el carácter de cada uno de los personajes, cuyas edades oscilan entre los cuatro años y la madurez, adentrándose en lo más recóndito de su alma, de modo que el lector conoce sus más profundas motivaciones, ilusiones, frustraciones, angustias y esperanzas.
Un relato conmovedor y de gran humanidad en el que se destaca el valor del trabajo, la familia, la paternidad y el privilegio que supone para los padres poder modelar el alma de sus hijos desde la infancia, haciendo de su hogar un lugar donde puedan desarrollarse como personas y ser felices.
It was made into amovie around 1924-5, what a confronting idea for 1924.A woman who is completely oppressed with her role asa wife and mother and literally making her family sickwith anxiety is given an opportunity to become the"bread winner" when her husband, Lester, becomes confined to a wheel chair through a life threateningaccident.This is such a readable book.
Evangeline, through her"go-getter" personality finds herself being promotedat a rapid rate, at the same firm that her husband wasstuck in the same dead end job for many years.
The riveting climaxhas Lester making a vital decision that will affect thewhole family's future.
This book rather disturbed me because it dealt with, among other things, the possibility that not all women are by nature maternal.
Written in 1924, that premise was even harder to accept than it might be today.The husband/father in this story states that the wife/mother "...had passionate love and devotion to give (the children), but neither patience nor understanding.
I saw myself in her frustration of dealing with things that never got "done," but always needed "doing."In this case, the father was also frustrated in his role as breadwinner, and the reversal of roles was beneficial to the whole family.
