https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13138635-these-broken-stars
This book was SO GOOD. Not what I expected it to be at all! I'm excited to discuss this at the booksplosion live show. :)
I loved the characters and their romance, and the mystery kept me flipping through the pages! Some aspects of the ending had me scratching my head a little, but overall I still really enjoyed this and I can't wait to read the next book in this world!
I mean, Beth Revis's Across the Universe was all pink and twinkly and romance-like and I enjoyed that book.
But I was really disappointed with These Broken Stars and should have listened to my instincts when I saw the pretty cover.Most of the actual space action in this book happens in the first couple of chapters.
Description aside, survival/space parts aside, this book is about getting Lilac and Tarver together.
A chilly night is an excuse for Tarver to sleep with his erection pressed against her ass.But I think the most disappointing thing of all is the sheer lack of world-building.
This is more of a 3.7 for me - i enjoyed it but i'm not crazy about it, here's my full booktak/review: http://youtu.be/ZD-m6fhRfhA =)
4.5 stars Here's what you need to know:-- This story is incredibly original, and unlike any other scifi book I've ever read before.
Don't let the "Titanic in space" idea fool you; while technically true (and a spectacular crash indeed), there's much more complexity to this story than that.
Serious swoon.-- Recommended for fans of Andrea Host's Stray, possibly Sangu Mandanna's The Lost Girl, possibly Alison Goodman's Singing the Dogstar Blues, and definitely fans of Star Trek: The Next Generation.The authors shared the story of how that gorgeous title came to be.
Because I enjoyed the shit out of this book.
You want a detailed breakdown of what happens in it?
You want me to tell you how fucking gloriously understated yet wholly satisfying this world building was?
You want to know why I started losing my mind 70% in?
HOW'S IT FEEL TO WANT?
This book is everything that makes me keep coming back to the YA category.
Because sometimes, sometimes an author does it right.
Kaufman and Spooner did it right.
They did it sooooooo right.
This book was a not only refreshingly original, but filled with all sorts of delicious mind-fuckery.
This is a wilderness waiting to swallow me; I’d barely make a dent trying to fight it. There are no rules for me to learn, no points to be scored, no bluffs to be called. This is a hell I’ve never imagined.And I think I’m going to die here. A lot of people have been calling this an intergalactic Titanic, and while there are certain similarities, particularly in the beginning of the book, the parallels to that doomed cruise liner ends there. I really liked this book. This is a beautifully writte
She improves, I promise.With that said, I do have reservations about the book that keeps it from being a great novel, including the slowness of the plot, the unconvincing character of Tarver (however much I love him, and I do love him), and the complete lack of world building.The plot dragged on at times because an overwhelming part of the book is composed of the pair traipsing through an alien planet, trying to survive an unknown environment.
Lilac knows the consequences if her father finds out that this lower-class young man is interested in his princess.Despite their distrust of one another, Lilac and Tarver are thrown together in an escape pod when something goes terribly wrong.
I can't review this yet. I quite liked it, yet don't know how to describe it.I know I read it instead of doing Buzz Worthy News, which is a big no-no for me. But I just couldn't help myself. And whilst I won't give anything away, I finished it like I had a spell over me."It was nice, ya know? Just real nice..."Review to come closer to release date.
The first time I read this book was back in 2015 and I'm not sure why I gave it 2.5 stars.
I loved Tarver and Lilac and yes I wanted to smack them a few times.
Lilac is the daughter of one of the richest men if not the richest men and Tarver is a lowly Major that didn't come from a whole lot.
The Icarus was being ripped from space and Lilac and Tarver need to get that pod out quickly.
Lilac and Tarver have to go through some really bad things and near death experiences to make it off this planet.
But, things on this planet really are not what they seem.
I called this a DNF a year ago when I got bored, but this time I was glued to the book and couldn't put it down!
The pacing & writing are actually awesome and totally worked for me this time.--2.5 stars.
And it's a decent story, but I kept zoning out and thinking about how much I'd rather be reading something like Illuminae.
Sci fi books (or those set in space) are usually hit or miss with me, so this is probably a case of "it's not you, it's me." Everything here was fine but I just never really got into any of it and was a bit bored.
I was sure I was going to appreciate her, because of how she doesn’t take ‘crap’ from anyone and knows what most guys want from her (because she's ''the daughter of the richest man in the universe'') and doesn’t let them get it.
Turns out she’s annoying as hell and whiny and I couldn’t stand her.Tarver started out being a likeable character, and I was sure I was going to love him.
They were interesting at first but, then, Tarver really started getting on my nerves with his talking back and provoking replies.The love/hate romance was so bad.
Normally, I do not like snarky boys, well to be precise, in real life, I don't like my boys with this much snark. But in the case of Tarver, I think it totally worked for him. I really liked the romance between him & Lilac.There was no 'insta-love' here. It wasn't quite really that. I'd called this 'insta-attraction' but that was it.  Hallelujah!
This is by far my favorite YA read from 2013.These Broken Stars, written by the duo Amie Kaufman and Meagan Spooner, takes us to space aboard a massive luxury ship, similar to the Titanic.
And in the end, Tarver and Lilac will have to make the difficult decision of giving up the wonderful peace they've found with each other to find their way back to civilization.Any plot synopsis won't do this book justice.
The way Lilac and Tarver interact is perfect.
I can't say enough how people must read this book immediately.
It's beautifully written, described, and characterized with perfect pacing.
an amazing, truly amazing book
Let's meet Lilac, aboard the Icarus:This is Lilac at the beginning of THESE BROKEN STARS.
Tarver and Lilac begin to change, to become better versions of themselves.
And even though there are so MANY themes to this novel: a crash-landing reveals Tarver and Lilac's hearts, there's a not-so-barren planet to cross, mysteries to investigate, and their very survival to fight for...
Oh, and then this happened, basically: Want to know more about THESE BROKEN STARS?
Want to know if Tarver and Lilac ever get together?
A slightly different/longer GIF review is  here.You can read my full review of THESE BROKEN STARS at  Books and Whimsy!
Good job, Disney!4-star book.2-star ending.Kind of like Miley Cyrus.  :)It’s a futuristic sci/fi fantasy book. And the rudiment of the story is that the richest girl in the galaxy gets stranded on a planet with a military boy. So, we’ve all read this story before, right? It’s one that has been done over and over and over again. But the thing with These Broken Stars is that there’s actually a lot of originality in this book! It’s co-written by two brilliant ladies, Amie Kaufman and Meagan Spooner
And the rudiment of the story is that the richest girl in the galaxy gets stranded on a planet with a military boy.
But the thing with These Broken Stars is that there’s actually a lot of originality in this book!
See, Lilac (the rich heroine) and Tarver (the military boy) are the only living people on this planet.
And in my head, the hyperspace rift looks a lot like a Snickers bar wrapper.
Also…I don’t know if YA writers go to a seminar on writing sex scenes, but why is it that almost every YA book writes a sex scene a lot like this:
This book reminds me why I love reading so much.  ...How trilling it is to dive into a new story, a new world, new lives and new adventures that leave me breathless every time!This was such an unusual & original story! I have nothing to measure it against. It was nothing like I thought it would be. The world building is awesome, the action is trilling, the characters are strong and determined, the turnarounds made me tear a bit and the ending left me full of hope. THESE BROKEN STARS tells a
The world building is awesome, the action is trilling, the characters are strong and determined, the turnarounds made me tear a bit and the ending left me full of hope.
I fell for this book from the beginning and, as the story progressed, I simply couldn’t stop reading.To put it simple, we have our sweet couple (the rich girl and the famous -but poor- soldier) thrown into an unknown & mostly unwelcome world, surviving a deadly accident (that might or might not have left other survivors) and being forced to cooperate in order to keep alive, which turns out to be hard when they each of them is as stubborn as a mule....
I'm really speechless right now, don't know what to say but all I can say is this book is so good and the story is very very different from other fantasy books that I've read.(view spoiler)[ Her hands goes limp, and I feel the moment the life goes out of her.
Her mother passed away when she was a kid and everyman always after her or his dad money and evergirl always only want status.in my opinion she looked like a weak girl at the first time and she always argued with Tarver.But after I read a few chapters, she turned out to be a strong girl.
I swear!Actually, most of this book is a survival story.
After a crash land on an anonymous planet, Tarver and Lilac have to find a way to get along and stay alive amongst the wild animals and Lilac's questionable state of mind.
It's not a fast paced read, but rather a slow trek on this mysterious planet full of whispers, visions, ghosts, and other bizarre happenings.
You get that constant need to read just one more chapter to try and get some answers as to what exactly is happening in this weird place.
The main reason I loved it is due to the character oriented, suspense-filled survival story that encompasses 90% of it.
My brain's answer was silence, and that's when I realised I should stop torturing myself with a book that was giving me headaches.You see, we are promised an epic journey through space, and that's why I started it.
If you didn't know, getting lost in space (or the fact of getting out of Earth) is one of my biggest fears.
A summary of what happened up until where I abandoned this was:Tarver: *sees Lilac* OMG, isn't she so pretty?Lilac: *sees Tarver* I will let him flirt with me for a while.*spaceship crashes*T: Oh, no, my lovebird is in danger!
What started out a soap opera ended up in story of survival out in the wilderness of a strange, abandoned planet and once again, it surprises me how much I enjoyed the book from start to end.
How they do their best to survive in a strange planet that whispers to them and gives them visions is very admirable and I find them both growing on me each day they struggle hanging on dear life.
Of course, I’ve been rooting for their romance since the start of the book but how theirs developed is even better and more adorable than I expected.
It’s a perfect tagline, really, for a story about two star-crossed lovers who travel through space on one of the most advanced ships ever built.
Here’s the thing, though, where These Broken Stars manages to make a name of it’s very own – we leave behind the Titanic disaster element of the story fairly early on, morphing into a haunting survival story that reveals evermore injustices of this sci-fi dystopian universe.
It’s the easiest way to just go ahead and form perfect heroes and heroines out of words who do nothing wrong or who have a character development as fast as light travels, but Kaufman and Spooner have done a wonderful job to create real people instead of plot twist agents.
Well, this was bloody brilliant. But what did I just read? Tension and telepathy and spaceships, and then romance that I actually gave a shit about (I know, right?) and then a giant twist - a twist so twisty that it's almost physically painful. A twist so twisty, you'll pull a muscle in your back.Just...What are you, These Broken Stars?[Proper review to come.]
whhhaaaaaaaaattttttttt.......?
SECOND ATTEMPT DNF @ 20%BUDDY READING with my wife, Caitlin.
I hate the movie with a burning fiery passion of "wtf why did I just waste like two hours of my life??" The characters are one dimensional for me.
I hate Lilac (I hate her name as well) and Tarver (is that his name?
The attempt at banter and snark is slightly painful to read.
As are the descriptions and the slightly pervert moment Tarver has while Lilac is passed out.
The insta-attraction still hurts me, as does Lilac's ridiculously immature reactions.
Insta-attraction.
They're not worth the energy and reading slumps that follow.
Reread 1/13/16: I don't think re-reading this after Illuminae was a good idea because no other sci-fi book will ever live up for me now. Either way though this was still mega entertaining and I can't wait to finally carry on with the series !Original review 1/6/15: This book. Oh my god. Drowning in a puddle of my feels for all of eternity
Whatever Amie Kaufman writes, i read. No questions asked. In case some of you don't know, she is also the author of Illuminae and Gemina. SHE IS AMAZING!
3.5 stars “But who names a starship the Icarus? What kind of man possess that much hubris, that he dares it to fall?”  I went into These Broken Stars expecting a Titanic retelling. We all remember what happens at the end; Kate is a dumbass and runs after Jack, then they both get stranded and Jack freezes to death. Also, he never wins an Oscar.But I digress. My point is, a Titanic retelling has to have at least two things: a sink sinks, and someone dies. And guess what? No one dies. (view spoiler
My point is, a Titanic retelling has to have at least two things: a sink sinks, and someone dies.
(view spoiler)[I was in awe of the writers' balls when they killed Lilac, then brought her back to life as a ghost-like figure.
What guts.But then she comes back to life through a blast of supernatural energy.
Lilac's daddy, who once sent a boy to the front lines of a battle for having the gall to date her, lets her have her way because of a little back-sass.
Tarver sounds like an actual teenage boy, which is rare in YA, so good job there.
We start out on the glamourous Icarus, and have just enough time to get a taste for the gigantic luxury spaceliner when she is yanked from hyberspace and sucked into an unknown planets gravity.
The flora and fauna are more wild and uncontained than they should be, and there doesn't seem to be any civilization on the planet.I love a good survival story, and that comes in handy because a big chunk of this book is Lilac and Tarver trekking across the land, trying to survive and get rescued.
Why would anyone spend all this money to terraform a planet, and then seemingly abandon it?
And then the whispers start and theres even more questions.
Absolutely brilliant. This is the sci fi I've been waiting for! Action, romance, twists and turns--this book has it all!
