https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104711.Freaky_Friday
Just watch the movie.Annabel (the greasy-haired, fashion-missing daughter) is absolutely in love - like horribly, painfully cringe-worthy hero worship love - with her mother's life.
Only when Annabel actually tries to do all the things her mother does - like laundry and other grownup stuff...she comes to the realization that while her mother might not have the most glamorous life but she is a superhero and a saint through and through.So, as painful as it was to read the over-the-top awkward adoration aimed towards the mother, at least Annabel gains understanding and insight.And what is her mother doing while in Annabel's body?
The mother has absolutely no faults  and Annabel (who's still in her awkward teen years) just completely rolls over once she sees her mother has completely changed everything about herself.
no lo sé, sólo sé que lo hice, y me alegro mucho de haberlo hecho, dado que, para ser honesto, está muy buena, bastante bien pensada, y para su tiempo —yup, publicada en 1972—, es sumamente innovadora.Ahora, del libro a la película, creo que prefiero un poco más la película, pues, a pesar de que la premisa resultó ser bastante similar, no fue exactamente la misma —y no esperaba que fuera igual, pero entiéndanme, crecí con ese filme, con el deterioro en la carrera de Lindsay—, aunque el libro tiene un toque distinto en su interior.
That sucks.)Rodgers used a kind of whiny, rather scatterbrained delivery to bring to life her thirteen-year-old narrator.
Another drawback - though the pace is fairly frenetic, some scenes drag on and on, like when Annabel/Mom has a meeting with Annabel's teachers.
(view spoiler)[Yeah, yeah, we know Mom DID it, but HOW?
(hide spoiler)]My real rating is two-stars, however, I'm not the intended audience.
It's been a couple of years since I was a thirteen-year-old girl.
(Well, a couple of decades.
SEVERAL decades.
Happy now?) So, three stars it is - not a bad book, just wrong book, wrong time.
I felt like this book just pushed its message across too hard.
Morris hated her and spoke about how ugly and horrible she was to Annabel herself (as Ma) but once she came home with a makeover, he liked her.
I was kind of shocked that there was a lot of bad language and talk of murder/rape in this kids book.
I wouldn't let kids read it.
I felt like Annabel's father spoke down to Ma a lot and it shocked me that Annabel referred to him as a cute man after he did.
I wouldn't recommend it to kids or anyone else.
I know that despite the length and the material that make up this adorable story, even I learned something about myself and I think everyone could take something away from this book, kids and parents alike.The whole 1972 copyright may throw some people off, but don't let it; it's a story that is still relevant today and probably will continue to be for as long as there are 13-year-old girls with mothers and little brothers especially.
I'm not always on-board with Disney films, but one that I really liked in junior high school was the 1976 Jodie Foster film Freaky Friday. It was only recently that I discovered it was based on a middle-grade children's novel. The story of a prim and proper mother and her willful, precocious teen daughter, Freaky Friday is funny, weird and surprisingly insightful.
Okay so I read this book for a reading challenge otherwise I would of never read it and just enjoyed my memories of the movie. This book wasn't written that great in my opinion and I felt like more of the story was played out in the movie which, made it more interesting. Odd for me to say that because, usually the book is always better. Guess it wasn't the issue in this case.
During the day there are various farcical occurrences, such as the boy from upstairs, on whom Annabel has a crush, showing he is in fact smitten with her mother, certainly the Annabel-possessed version, and various run-ins with the police force.Parts of the story are very funny, such as the case conference at school.
This is a no no. I LOVE the 1970's movie. My siblings and I grew up on it. But I just dragged myself to the end of the book this week. I wanted to weep. Books shouldn't be that bad. It gave me hope, though, that perhaps one of the books I'm writing can be as bad as this and still get picked up by Disney and made into a classic movie. Sorry Mary Rodgers.
You're giving it really three stars?Dad: Ahhh...Gwen: Well, it's a little less than 4.El: And way less than 5.Poppy: Or a lot of money.Dad: I want you to know that I heard how many you think it deserves, but this time, I'm giving it less than that.
and I like that point, but I didn't really like the way they made that point.Gwen: What point?Dad: That being racist is bad....Also, there were times I thought the book got a little bit boring.
I don't know.Eleanor: I understand about the cleaning lady, but I didn't think the dad was talking mean, or anything like that.
I saw the movie when it first came out and thought it was great but the book...not so much. This is one of those few times where the movie is better than the book.
I get that it is dealing with the daily life of a mother and daughter in 1972 by someone who was a young woman in the 50's.
I also thought this was a children's book but all the smoking and drinking references (yes, I realize it was much more common), and all the jokes Annabelle makes about rape and other flippant remarks.
I realize some of that would be attributed to age and attitude, but it does make the book more young adult.
Though in the books case, it was really just the daughter appreciating her mother and brother, and even herself.
I preferred the movie, but the book was cute too, at times. A bit too juvenile for my tastes, but I can't hold that against the book. It was interesting how the story differed from the movie in a big way (didn't expect that!).
Instead of being in her own awkward teenage body, with teeth covered in braces, she's in her mother's gorgeous body and the more reason for Boris, her childhood friend, to stay and help.A few was saying that this book was anti-feminist with the way Annabelle's dad treated her mom (with Annabelle in her) and with the way Boris treated Annabelle herself by confiding to her mom (not knowing it was Annabelle inside it).
“I don't look like her. I wish I did. Well, today I do, and it's a great improvement!”  Freaky Friday is certainly not the most sophisticated book but it fulfilled its purpose of keeping me entertained for a while. In fact, it did not last me for as long as I hoped it would. Not necessarily because it was gripping but because the lettering was rather large for an already short book.I have seen the film several years back – I cannot remember it well enough to say which I preferred but they were
Other than the implausibility of the body-swap being treated as rational– this book was rather fun to read with some quirky and adorable dialogues between Annabel and her younger brother who thinks he is actually talking to his mother.
The dialogues between her and her love interest – who also believes he is talking to the mother – are also sweet.All in all, it is a cute (and very fast) read but there is nothing special to be expected from it.
The type of story actually seemed more like something you would find in a comedy manga – and I think that for me personally, these kinds of stories just work better as a manga, to begin with.
Annabel’s excited to be her mom, until all sorts of things start going wrong, until her brother Ape Face disappears with a stranger, and until her father/husband (confusing!) invites some important clients over for dinner.
It seems like everything will end very badly for Annabel, but her mother switches them back in the nick of time and she’s been up to things, too, while Annabel has been coping as best she can.
Mom and daughter each learn something about each other, helping them to understand why they do the things they do.
Come on Mary Rodgers?
You can do better than this.
I do not recommend this book to anyone that is a human being on this here planet earth.
This is incredibly unrealistic and Charles Drape does not dig unrealistic books.
This doesn't happen often and it is honestly incredibly sad when it does happen, but the movie is way better than the book.
The movie sucked too, so that is telling you how bad this book is.
The only reason I gave it one star is because it reminded me of Lindsay Lohan before she was participating in illegal substances and flipping off court judges.
Rock on Lindsay!
I didn't like this at all.
In a way, it was almost didactic - the mother switchies bodies with her daughter to teach her daughter a lesson; daughter realizes how wrong she has been.
The humor was way off to me; a phone conversation between the main character and the police was so bad it was excrutiating to read.
I didn't like that Annabel's mother supposedly managed to switch their bodies, but in the last chapter refuses to explain to her daughter how, thus conveniently keeping the author from having to have a credible explanation.
So basically Anna thinks her mom is ruining her life. 1 morning they switched body. Now Anna is in her moms body and her mom is in her daughter body. They each found out its not easy being each other.
I read this as a child- multiple times. I don't know that I want to read it again as an adult. I have a feeling I'll be disappointed, but at the time I really enjoyed this book. I can't even remember how old I was; probably tween to early teen years.
I love reading young adult books, but this book would have to be excluded from the list. I would argue that I liked the movie more........and yes, I am willing to admit that I watched the movie. The whole concept of the story is interesting, but that is about all this book has.
I read the 1970s version, in the seventies.
a light cute read; I read this in high school. (the movie that came out a couple of years ago with Lindsey Lohan and Jamie Lee Curtis is pretty well done too)
It's a pretty cool book. Sometimes I wish it happened to my mother and I so she should understand what teens really go through these days because she swears she already knows.
Picked this up at a used book sale because it looked interesting. Not as good as the Lindsay Lohan movie so far.
Read as a kid. Liked it, liked the movie. (the Jody Foster one)

The challenge on the book was placed because people had concerns that it would teach children to kill, which I believe in ridiculous.
If this were the case there would be no books or movies made because it could teach children to "kill".
No matter what the content of a book is someone is always going to have an issue with it.Freaky Friday is an innocent book that is a story about a girl named Annabel switching into the body of her mother after a huge fight with one another.
There are many books on the banned/challenged list that belong on the list, but Freaky Friday is an innocent read.
This particular copy was left in my Little Free Library, where it will return now that I've read it so another reader can find and enjoy this fantastic story.Minus the more fantastical elements of the 1976 movie version (no water-skiing/driving mishaps here), the story is similar, Annabelle wakes up one Friday morning to find herself in her mother's body.
She is also granted a great deal of insight into herself through her mother's eyes as she sees just how the people who engage with "mom" talk about Annabelle, from the housekeeper with the nasty attitude to her teachers and principal.A great read for anyone and everyone.
I definitely preferred the movie.The book was fine, though there was some sketchy content which surprised me, as this is a children's book. Even so I'm glad that I have familiarized myself with both book and movie.
