https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27689.Mary_Stewart_s_Merlin_Trilogy
Besides the Lord of the Rings, this was probably the first real fantasy trilogy that I read.
I've gone back and read it many times since then, and I think it will always be one of my standards for excellent fantasy.There's something about Mary Stewart's Merlin that is just captivating.
Mary Stewart makes his growth from child to the wise old Merlin so believable.
This isn't a fanciful rendering of a stars-n-moon caped Merlin the Magician, but a gritty depiction of early Britain, caught in the middle of the shift from paganism to Christianity.
The scenes are all depicted so well that I could literally feel myself inside them.
I first read this series many years ago, including the sequel, The Wicked Day in which the Arthurian legend comes full-circle with the story of Arthur's bastard son Mordred.
I found her approach to the legend very fascinating.
I have since reread them at least twice (I have the hardbound set), and enjoyed them immensely each time.Some reviewers have noted the "slow" pacing of these novels, and they do, indeed, move more slowly than many modern readers prefer.
For me, however, Mary Stewart's incredible prose easily carries the stories and sweeps me right along.Along with JRR Tolkien, I consider Ms. Stewart one of the inspirations for my own writing efforts.
It's got to be a good 25-30 years since I read these three books, and were just as enjoyable now as they were then.
I found that while I read it as one book this time, there were redundancies and/or things that I would have expected to be cut from one large novel, but necessary additions in three separate novels.
While I don't usually enjoy a book written in the first person -- as you lose so much from what the other characters are experiencing -- the author pulled this off well enough.
Because I read them all from one book, one after the other, it IS a little difficult for me to think of them as three separate books, though, so if I seem to overlap, jumping from something that happened in Crystal Cave to Last Enchantment without batting an eye, that's why.With the sole exception of "Here Lies Arthur" this is my very favorite King Arthur book.
Another scene I loved was when Arthur discovers before Merlin does that Nimue was a girl (she was pretending to be a boy to study under Merlin's tutorage) and basically says that if she turns out to be evil and hurts Merlin, he'll kill her no matter how close they are.
Stewart focuses on Merlin as the main character in this series, starting with his young years as a bastard and continuing through his demise shortly into Arthur's reign.
Stewart's strength was in bringing these so well-known characters to life and giving them depth.
Foreshadowing was well-used, between Merlin's foresight and the reader's assumed knowledge of the basics of the story, impending doom was alluded to well.[return][return]I was very disappointed by the view of women in this series.
To some extent this is forgivable, as that was no doubt the sentiment towards women during the time that the events supposedly took place, but having read a story like The Mists of Avalon, it's not hard to see how it might have been otherwise.
This series puts a very touching, very human face to the ancient Merlin story, as the legendary magician faces the trials of discovering and developing his own power, and later as he grooms the young Arthur Pendragon to assume the throne and unite a kingdom after the chaos following the fall of the Roman Empire.
The story traces Merlin's journey from boyhood through the height of his reknown, and even into his twilight years as he settles into 'retirement', and discovers that it is never too late to find love.
By far one of the best books I have ever read. 900+ pages, continually flowing and engaging. Using the title character, Merlin, as her narrator, Mary Stewart is masterful in her storytelling...wonderfully descriptive; drawing on the reader's senses to experience the smells, tastes, sights, sounds, and touch of this fantastic tale. A wonderful backstory to the usual focus, much happens before Camelot is introduced to us (700 pages into the book). Highly recommend this thoroughly enjoyable read.
Mary Stewart creates a serious Merlin that we follow from boyhood into adulthood.
Merlin is brilliant, cunning and humble and the bastard son of King Ambrosius, brother of Uther Pendragon, making him Arthur's uncle.I love that he's not a bumbling old man, but a handsome prince who doesn't want titles and decadence.
I can honestly say this is the first Arthurian Legend that did not feature Arthur as a main character that I truly enjoyed, and my favorite character, for once, was not Arthur but Merlin.
And I will admit that I didn't like the book that follows the end of the trilogy nearly as much due to Merlin's absence.I rate this entire series 5 star!
I first read this series thirty years ago and loved it.
I loved it all the more as I read it this year!
Arthur is shown as the inheritor of the Sword of Maximus through his father, Uther Pendragon; nevertheless, Arthur is reared as a bastard who comes into his inheritance just before the death of his father.
Merlin likewise is reared as a bastard, the son of the previous king, Uther's brother.
Moreover, the women who come into the lives of the two men--Morgan, Morgause to Arthur and Nimue to Merlin--are depicted masterfly by Stewart.

I really enjoyed this series. Why? I enjoyed that many readers, young and old, could find this an enjoyable series. It also is something that one would enjoy even though they typically do not read science fiction/fantasy. Having said that, I love this genre and was not disappointed. The writing was rich with detail and yet not weighted down. I also felt that the writer had tried to research the era and attributes as far as possible and then took the liberty of writing a fictious work that could entice many to read its pages.
Perhaps my favorite books of all time. I've always enjoyed the Arthurian legends, but this telling of them, from Merlin's perspective, resonates perfectly with what I know of the history behind the myths.Stewart tells her tale through the eyes of Merlin the Magician, Arthur's mentor and companion. The books are Merlin's own autobiography, starting with the first memories he can recall, and ending with the mundane tasks of his daily life as an old man setting his life down on paper. In between, we travel with a fascinating character.
I have always loved the tale of King Arthur, Merlin and Camelot. What makes this trilogy so special is that it is told from Merlin's perspective. He is the narrator and the story begins with his boyhood. This is beautifully written and you can picture yourself in the towns, caves and gardens. You feel you personally know both Merlin and Arthur. This is right up there with my all time favorite books!!
Mary Stewart's telling of this old legend is absolutely stunning. Stewart's Merlin is fully human and "earthy". She deftly weaves threads of the supernatural into her tale, yet she never depicts Merlin as resorting to the ridiculous and incredulous antics of wizardry that are found in other versions. If you like the Arthurian/Merlin legend, then this trilogy is worth your time!
This is one of those old favorites I revisit every few years or so. Mary Stewart pulls off gracefully the formidible task of creating a cast of characters so lifelike and engaging one almost (but not quite) forgets that they are familiar objects of legend, while remaining faithful to the roots of the story... By far the best retelling of Arthurian legend I've encountered.
I loved this book, as a fan of the King Arthur legends. It's unique take on Merlin, in addition to a story told from his perspective, make it stand out. Merlin lives backwards through time, growing younger as time passes, while "remembering" the future. Very cool.
And so I finally finish the Merlin tale. It was well worth the time. It only felt a little slow and sludgy at the last book with tales of Arthur taking center stage. Really enjoyed reading about the legend of Merlin.
I am in the middle of the second book and am remembering why I LOVE this book so much. As I read, I am caught up in the story, unable to stop.
Mary Stewart has the ability to take a reader flying away to a different time and place with these Arthurian tales. The perfect escape for a long and chilly windy weekend, the reader WANTS these tales to be true.
This is one of my favorite books, consisting of three novels that follow the Arthurian legend through the eyes of Merlin.
The other thing is, compared to so many of the other versions, Stewart is just a fantastic storyteller with a beautiful evocative prose style, wonderful pacing, characterizations and sense of place.
The second book, The Hollow Hills deals with the young Arthur up to the time he becomes king, and The Last Enchantment which takes Merlin up to his death.
Beautiful novels, all three of them, especially seen as a whole.
Bogged down half way through the second book. Gracious, it moves slowly.
I love re-imaginings of the Arthurian mythos.
I love Stewart's re-imagining of Nimue; it's the most sympathetic portrayal of her that I've ever seen.
I've never liked the character of Morgause, but I was cheering for her when she took her revenge on Merlin.In my opinion, Merlin's one redeeming trait is his love for Arthur.
The times when Merlin talks about Arthur and the love he bears for the King were pretty much the only times I could stand Merlin as a character.I'm really disappointed about that.
This was a really good interpretation of the King Arthur legend, told from the perspective of Merlin.
It's fun to see the characters come into the story, remember what the legends said about them, and see how Mary Stewart casts them.
Except it took me forever to realize that Bedwyr is a more accurate version of the name Bedivere, and I am embarrassed because he is one of my favorite characters in the legend.
In any case, the writing is good and the events are interesting.
I want to give this series 5 stars but I am only giving it 4 because of how loooonnnggg it took me to read,(4 months!) and not all the books were 5 star books.
I now love the way Stewart writes her stories and have a new found appreciation of books that are not as fast paced as most are today.
She has a true gift with her words and the way she weaves her stories and I can't wait to read The wicked Day and some of her other pieces!
This series has been a true gift to me even as hard as it was to get through.
The third book is so mind-numbingly boring, I gave up on it half-way through, abandoning my plans to read the 4th and 5th novels after reading the initial trilogy.This book is a counterargument to all those people harping on about how long Robert Jordan's descriptions were in "Wheel of Time".
By the third book of the trilogy I realized the damn thing is nothing but a series of cobbled up descriptions of scenery and the rambling inner thoughts of the protagonist, with so little story holding them together, the whole thing could be abridged to 5 pages without missing anything important.
A 250 page novel of Stewart's Merlin series seems interminably long, and leaves you fed up with the Arthurian Legend.
But where the book sometimes seemed to "lose its train of thought" were the parts where this thesis that seemed to lead the story, was abruptly set aside for dramatic purposes it seemed.
I am sure this was intentional, for some legends surrounding those two characters are hard to come up with a possible practical explanantion...but those parts of the book slipped into a rather dramatic tone, almost like romance novel level of drama.
I then found out that Mary Stewart only wrote romance novels besides this trilogy.
The story is told from the perspective of Arthur's prophet, Merlin, who receives his power from what he refers to as "the god." More than anything, I was intrigued by the way that Stewart portrays the period of cultural transition following the collapse of the Roman empire-- a period during which King Arthur sought to piece together a single culture and at the same time, Christianity was gaining a popular foothold.
The move from the many and the scattered to the single and united was taking shape in different ways.
What a treat to read this again, all three books at once.
I have read them many times before, the first time, I think, when I was 9 years old.
Not only is Mary Stewart's power of description beautifully strong, but she makes the shadowy, magical figure of Merlin into a man.
Still it's gratifying to have Merlin "replaced" by a woman -- whom he loves, this man who never thought much of them -- and Stewart's gracious treatment of Guinevere is kinder than most.
However, since I don't really like fantasy, I've resisted.The first book is The Crystal Cave, the second is The Hollow Hills, and the third is The Last Enchantment.
Mary Stewart, the author, is an excellent writer and, though the story is based on legend, it is historically accurate as far as possible.I told a friend who had read these books years ago that I liked them because they're not really fantasy.
She raised an eyebrow and said, "Nancy...they are fantasy!"I'm now reading the fourth book in the series, which is about Mordred, Arthur's son.You might be able to find these books printed as a trilogy, but they are probably easier to find printed individually.
It's a different take on the Arthurian legend, told from Merlin's perspective.
Mary Stewart did a great deal of research to write these books and her notes are every bit as interesting as the tale itself.
It's also worth noting that most of her villans are not the same as they were in the Arthurian legend you may be familiar with.
Mary Stewart has humanized them and turned the legend to logic, ascribing their decisions and actions to real emotions, character traits, and circumstance.
As this is, at its heart, another Arthurian tale however, that can be forgiven, particularly as told from Merlin's perspective.
