https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114954.The_Opal_Deception
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: Wherein characters experience life-altering change, and the villain is partial to absent murder by complex deathtrap.
the code on the bottom of the pages says the following:A recruitment letter from the centaur Foaly, technical consultant, to the lower elements police.Trsuted ally,  If you have decoded this gnommish message, then you are a deputy officer in the lower elements police.
You can complete this task in any number of ways.
Once you have completed these tasks, you must summon your recruiting officer in the ancient fashion.
The code is as follows:L= tap-tap-wiggle-tap.E= wiggle-wiggle-tap.P= tap-wiggle-drill.Do this at least a hundred times and our underground sensors will pick up the vibrations and send and LEP officer with your uniform and orders.
This book has so much action...so much thrill...so much excitement that I couldn't stop reading.
She is very hungry for POWER!!I liked the way she is written as an evil-minded Fairy.
OVERVIEW   Opal plans to take revenge from those who stopped her rebellion in the 2nd book.
As we know, Fairies had wiped the memory of their existence from Artemis' mind in the last book for a reason.
●●●● One thing I didn't like that Artemis was completely blank.
He didn't remember anything about his adventures with Fairies.
This fact makes the book exciting but don't know why I couldn't like it that much.
“If we make it through this, we will be friends. Bonded by trauma.” Oh myyyy GOD !!! I love every character's development throughout the series. The plot line presents in how we had followed their journey so far is so heart-wrenching and emotional much. It's just so memorable and I LOVE ALL THE CHARACTERS HERE. They're all my baes <3 “I do remember, Holly. I remember it all. Especially you. It's a real comfort to have you here.” Come on, the idea of wiping memory and how he slowly rememberin
I love every character's development throughout the series.
It's just so memorable and I LOVE ALL THE CHARACTERS HERE.
“I do remember, Holly.
I remember it all.
Come on, the idea of wiping memory and how he slowly remembering it and of course, they're certain struggle to fully coming back all those memories just sooooo perfecccctttt ~ I love it so muuucchhhh :') I CRIED LIKE SERIOUSLY 
And finally, (view spoiler)[the death that I will never get over.
I'll remember you (hide spoiler)]My Artemis Fowl's reading playlist : https://open.spotify.com/user/debbyhattan/playlist/1rQmLp9EHxnQwB72zHGgSk
The Opal Deception was definitely my favourite in the Artemis Fowl series back in the day.
The Opal Deception goes even darker, with consequences there’s no rescue from, and definitely throwing our protagonists out from the frying pan straight into the fire.
(hide spoiler)] Colfer is always great at the show-don’t-tell maxim though, weaving this emotional growth into the unfolding action a bit at a time – and incidentally, keeping us reading the series by having his characters grow at a slow pace whilst the fast-paced action takes the forefront of our attention.
Thank god I'm starting them now because I'm hooked and I can't wait till I get my hands on the next book in this series.I'm so happy that I got to see my favorite character Mulch again!
Artemis is back and I love it!The villain is Opal, who is very intelligent.
Which is why I loved the little twists and turns within this book.Holly, Butler, Mulch, and Artemis are probably my favorite group of people ever.
Besides being super happy that everyone I love is back in my life..
I seriously can't wait to dive into the next book.
"It's about me! It's always about me! I'm the only important one here!"Great book for the fourth in the series! More fairy action, which is what I loved about the first book. Artemis gets a soul.
Artemis Fowl begins another fantastical adventure with Captain Holly Short, Mulch the Dwarf, and Butler to save the world as we know it.
I had forgotten how entertaining and truly enjoyable these books are.
Shame on me.
I really liked getting back into this world and reading the funny one liners the characters say to one another.
There is always something important happening to keep you turning the pages, and the characters are so lovable that you can't help but cheer for them.
Needless to say, I am very much looking forward to reading the next book in the series.
I really enjoyed this book. So far this whole sereies is a 4-4.5/5 stars!(:
the best ending so far.and the bad girl gets what's coming.
Each time I reread one of these, I'm reminded of why I loved this series when I was younger.
It has fun characters, interesting stories, and is very well written.
This one started out where the last ended and still gave that bittersweet feeling.
The ending was still bittersweet, but sets up for a lot of great things in the future.
I can't wait to continue the rest of the series.
I enjoy Nathaniel Parker as the narrator for this series.
He voices all of the characters very well.
My only issue was his voicing of Opal, which I found a bit awkward.
I'm looking forward to seeing how Artemis will continue to change. I'm also excited that I like Holly now.
One of the best series i have ever read!! i love it
The action level was high, and the villain was more than a worthy match for Artemis, Butler and Holly Short.
Holly thought she'd seen the last of Artemis, but when the chips fall down, she's rushing to save him and Butler and knows that he's the only one who can deal with the villain, the nefarious Opal Koboi.The characteristic wry humor is here, but Colfer takes things seriously in many ways (no patronizing tone).
I was happy to see Butler in the action as much as Artemis, and their back and forth, and that of Artemis with Holly, is what makes these books so enjoyable.

The Artemis Fowl books are very good when you need a break from heavy 'grown-up' books.
They're fun little adventure stories, and this book isn't an exception.
It's not totally light: there is substance -- death happens, the characters are in real danger, actions have consequences, the friendships formed between the characters are real...But it's easy to read, a quick read, and it's a lot of fun.
In this book, I could've done with a bit more weight given to the death of a main character, but I love what Holly does at the end, and I look forward to the changes that'll bring to the series!
Opal Koboi is quite the evil mastermind. She certainly pushed everyone's lives into shambles, particularly Root's, I say. Ugh, I'll miss old Beet Root. And it'll be great to see Holly and Mulch with their detective business during the series.
AHHHHHHH THIS BOOK WAS SO GOOD! Full review here: http://lifeofamirkwoodelf.blogspot.ca...
After all these years, this series still manages to hold up. This is a different book than the first three, mainly because of Artemis’ character development. I really loved anti-hero/criminal Artemis, but he’s growing up and become a good person (well, at least good to his friends). Holly is as badass as ever. And Opal is a fairly interesting adversary to the team because of her intelligence and desire for revenge. The end of The Opal Deception set up some storylines for the next book that should be pretty good.
Opal Koboi has been waiting and scheming for over a year and the time has come to get revenge on those who foiled her plans to take over Faerie - namely Holly, Root, Foaly, Butler, and Artemis.
Artemis and Butler had their minds wiped in the last book, so they don't even know that fairies exist when they narrowly escape an assassination attempt.
Nevertheless, they team up with Holly and Mulch to defeat Opal before she can expose the Faerie underground to the human world.
This series is great!!
I highly recommend for a middle schooler.
4,5*
They lived among us cloaked and ready to stop the endless cruelty that humans are so well known for.Plot:In the book Artemis Fowl the Opal Deception there were mythical creatures like elves, goblins, trolls, and centaurs that lived underground to hide from the mud men.
This incident involved Opal Koboi who was a sprite that became an enemy of the Lep. She thought she could kill Artemis Fowl, Butler, and Holly.
Impacts of setting:This book took place mostly in the underground city of Haven which was the largest Fairy city in the world.
Artemis Fowl: The Opal Deception By Eoin Colfer 342 pp. New York, New York Hyperion Books for Children ISBN 0-7868-5289-5 The boy genius is back at it again. With two years of fairy memories erased from his mind, Artemis Fowl is back to his criminal mastermind self. This time he has his eyes set on a painting that sits in a very secure German bank vault. But this theft is only the first of many adventures that Artemis takes in the Opal Deception. With trolls, gunfire, and a plot to expose the fa
Artemis Fowl: The Opal Deception By Eoin Colfer 342 pp.
With two years of fairy memories erased from his mind, Artemis Fowl is back to his criminal mastermind self.
In his latest novel in the Artemis Fowl series, Opal Koboi is back-out of her self induced coma-ready to enact her revenge on all those that foiled her evil scheme one year ago.
In Opal Deception, Holly Short, in a time of crisis, tries to jog Artemis’ lost memory to help them out of a sticky situation.
Artemis Fowl: The Opal Deception is not without its share of themes.
Emotivamente mi ha dato un cazzotto meno intenso del terzo volume, ma Roots mi ha piegata in due dal dolore comunque, va detto. Cioè, Colfer, sei un demonio, veramente. Non mi lamenterò più di nessun altro autore. Colfer è senza alcuna pietà per i suoi baby lettori (all'interno dei quali mi annovero anch'io; sono una very baby lettrice, nel mio cuore). Comunque Bombarda è tutto. TUTTO.
ARTEMIS FOWL: THE OPAL DECEPTION (Fantasy) – VGColfer, Eoin – 4th in seriesMiramax Books, 2005, HardcoverArtemis had his mind wiped of his memory of the fairie world and has returned to his criminal ways.
Meanwhile, Opal Koboi, that evil pixie who has been in a self-induced coma, has foiled authorities and is out for revenge on enemies, particularly Artemis.*** What a delightful book!
Whenever I need a break from mystery, I go to fantasy and this is a series I love.
It doesn't matter whether you're 7 or 70, if you enjoy fantasy, you'll enjoy Artemis; but do start with the first book.
When an enemy from his supposed past resurfaces, Artemis must come to terms with what he doesn't remember in order to have a chance at saving his life, friends, human civilization and the fairy world at large from certain destruction.The Opal Deception takes a more serious tone than its predecessors, with some truly life threatening peril and death.Artemis' continued personal growth makes the book an enjoyable and worthy installment. Readers should be aware that the story contains descriptive bodily functions, numerous instances of naked backsides, and murder.Go to Sarah's Reviews for more content based book reviews.
(9/10) Yet another great installment in the Artemis Fowl series.
I think I like these so much because they are so easy to read, you get a great adventure which gallops along at a million miles an hour that, if I had the time, I could read in one day!This time you can't keep a good pixie down and Opal Koboi is back with a new plan for world domination.
The anti has definitely been upped in the last couple of books with series favourites being placed in some rather hairy situations.
I can't wait to see what dastardly plan is going to be foiled next in The Lost Colony.
Opal Koboi is back and set on getting her revenge on everyone who foiled her evil plan to destroy the LEP. Artemis has reverted to his old life of crime. He has become the same hard-hearted, criminal mastermind that we knew from the first book. Opal goes after Holly and Root. And after taking care of them, goes after Artemis. Will he be able to outsmart the evil but admittedly brilliant pixie? Or will this be Artemis' downfall? Very good and completely worth it. Character development is astounding. More authors should take notes from Mr. Colfer.
Wie immer toll und echt spannend, wobei mir die Teile davor irgendwie noch etwas besser gefallen haben. Deshalb gibt's nur 4 Sterne. Aber auch weiterhin eine tolle Jugendbuchreihe, die ich wirklich nur empfehlen kann, auch wenn ich vielleicht etwas voreingenommen bin, da ich die schon früher mit ca. 13 Jahren immer super gern gelesen habe.
I forgot about so much that happens. STEALING THE TRUFFLES. Artemis & Holly Bonding. Root's death was still just as painful, though. I can't believe this book includes cloning, being hunted by actual trolls, environmentalism, saving the world with flatulence, and an almost literal journey to the centre of the earth. These books are incredible.
