https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3750.Moonraker
(A-) 84% | Very GoodNotes: James Bond, dispirited office worker, awaits assignment and considers the empty, material life his profession affords.
This smooth, spare spy thriller bares next door to zero similarity to the film released in 1979 and while I grew restless with the acrobatics of the back half, I loved the business in the front half, which takes readers through a day at the office with a gaming expert and modern male sophisticate occasionally called on to assassinate enemies of the state.The novel starts with James Bond having a bad case of the Mondays, worked over in the basement firing range by his instructor (his sidearm is a Colt Detective Special) before going up to his eighth floor office of Secret Service headquarters, "Radio Tests Ltd" to any curious pedestrians in Regent Park.
Moonraker gets fiendish with its plot and villains, making this the first of the James Bond books to feel like a James Bond movie.Pure Cold War spy bliss, this book taps into our collective fear of mass annihilation after the successfully brutal bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Doesn't it seem like all public-school-trained Englishmen know how to string along a decent sentence or two?
It was a pleasant and unexpected treat to get to know M more intimately and see a little bit about what makes him tick.
The book in general was fun, even if the bad guy and his righthand toady were a bit over-the-top...maybe it was fun because they were soooo dastardly!
Get over it.The pre-credits sequence of this film is the absolute all-time best thrill ride in the Bondiverse.
Unlike many Bond films, the yip-yap seems to take less time than usual.
This perception is helped along by the forgettableness of the yip-yap, I think.Possibly the stupidest thing that happens in the film is the 7ft2in tall assassin, Jaws, who repeats from The Spy Who Loved Me, turns good because of the love of a (tiny, blonde) woman.
Possibly the best thing that happens, after the amazing opening sequence, is the launch of six space shuttles...filmed before even one had actually launched!
Fleming leads you along with little tantalizing clues and glimpses of what's REALLY going on with the Moonraker, and you are right alongside Gala and Bond as they work together to figure it out before the impending launch.James Bond definitely has a type: so far, every single "Bond girl" has been black-haired and blue-eyed.Gala Brand is one of the best additions to the book and by far the best "Bond girl" yet.
Bond is going to do something that would save England but kill a lot of people and she's tells him that he expects her to just take orders from him, but instead she's got a better plan.
In the end it's her own plan that saves England.The only times I was angry with Bond and this book didn't get 5 stars because of it.
So after making ill-advised social commentary in his last book, Fleming begins to really get into the groove for which we know him best, fast action sequences.
It is almost as if Fleming were responding to early critiques of Bond as harshly misogynist, as he has Brand actually narrate a couple sections to articulate her resentment that Drax and the other men don't respect her as a scientist because she is a woman.
3.5, rounded up because he sticks to what he does best, fast action sequences, fast car chases, big, possibly ending-life-as-we-know-it explosions, high stake card games, escaping tight places with the girl.
So, when the villain is a mere two dimensional character, my enjoyment of the book suffers because of it - and, as I dislike Bond, more page-time for Bond doesn't make up for that failure.What was kind of interesting, was that Fleming based Drax's background story on a real event(view spoiler)[ - there really was an attempt by the SS to breach Allied lines by dressing up in Allied uniforms (hide spoiler)].
A good James Bond novel.Ian Fleming first published Moonraker in 1955 and it is the third book featuring his master spy, 007.
Oddly set in England (Bond is almost always sent out of country due to jurisdictional procedures) this features an erstwhile British rocket project with some loyalty issues.
Fleming used the proximity to World War II and the ongoing Cold War weapons race to fuel some of the anxiety and paranoia central to the plot.
But this was certainly an entertaining read, even though the female characters seemed to wilt at the first sign of trouble, or at least gave the distinct impression of the likelihood of such an occurrence.I know it’s too much to ask (and it’s certainly not going to stop me from reading the rest of said novels), but just once I’d like to see a woman kick some serious butt in this series.
So far I've given the Bond books I've reviewed 3 stars.
They walk a sort of thin line.
They seem to appeal to younger males, but have slightly adult content (though in todays market they might be thought a bit tamer than they were when published.) They are enjoyable, straight adventure yarns and may deserve a 3.5 at least one will get a 4.
They're good books, just not as good as some others.In this one James saves England's missile program, uncovers a spy and, oddly doesn't get the (a) girl.
the only Bond novel where he doesn't have a romantic fling I believe....Just updated this...I typed "there" for "they're"...sigh.
Space, however, especially on the tail of Star Wars can be really exciting, even if rationally it makes no sense whatsoever.The Bond girl in the movie is (hehe) Holly Goodhead, a much better name (to 14 year boys across the world) than Gala Brand of the book.
These things are in the movie, so therefore the movie is better.Clearly.Theme song by (OMG NOT AGAIN) Shirley Bassey.
I think so far she's had the most theme songs for Bond movies?
***2018 Summer of Spies*** The oddest so far in the James Bond series. I was about two thirds of the way through when I started to wonder when something of significance would happen! The last third, however, held all the action that I’d been asking for.A very slow start, back to Bond & his card expertise. Having just read Tim Powers’ Last Call, which heavily involves poker and other games of chance, I was maybe a bit worn out with the card games! However, what I did find fascinating in the
The oddest so far in the James Bond series.
The last third, however, held all the action that I’d been asking for.A very slow start, back to Bond & his card expertise.
I found the last sentence to be a bit sad: “He touched her for the last time and then they turned away from each other and walked off into their different lives.” Fleming drew so much from his personal life for these books that it makes me wonder who he had in mind when he wrote such a melancholy final line.
And the female lead has her own skills, qualities, ideas and, in the end, independent life, very much as if someone had sat Fleming down and had a word with him about the old misogyny.
I really liked seeing Bond in the cheating-at-cards-in-gentlemen's-clubs subplot which comprises the first third of the book -- a survival of the old Establishment which Bond and his ilk were in the process of supplanting, both politically in the real world and in the sphere of popular genre fiction.
First time I'm trying a James Bond novel, and even though I wasn't blown away or anything, it was still an enjoyable read... Well, an enjoyable "listen" actually, since I picked this on audiobook. And I'm glad I did, because the always excellent Simon Vance does a great job narrating Bond's adventures. I'm sure I'll listen some more in the future. Hopefully the next one will have a bit more action and a better female character.
Able to pass with the Lord Basildons of this world, but not quite of them:'Bond knew that there was something alien and un-English about himself.
Moonraker’s plot delivers such atomic age fears as a rogue scientists, cities laid waste by the most powerful rocket ever built and an unsettling yet impolitic mistrust of those who have gone from enemies to allies in the blink of an eye.It is a cracking read, belting along at a great pace and lending a warmth and a human side to its characters that you would perhaps not believe existed if you had only watched the films.
After the war this man made a fortune speculating on precious metals and by the early 50s he had been knighted and with the announcement of his Moonraker project had become a sort of national hero.Sir Hugo Drax just happens to belong to the same club as M, the head of the British Secret Service, and M had noticed something peculiar and disturbing- Sir Hugo cheats at cards.
Fleming was fascinated by the dangerous glamour of high-stakes gambling and always liked to find a way not only to include such a scene but also to make it integral to the plot.The very next day a double murder takes place at the headquarters of the Moonraker project and Bond finds himself working undercover as Drax’s chief of security.
7.5/10This was the best Bond I’ve read to date (admittedly, it is only my 3rd) with the book split into three parts and each one having a different feel to them.
As I mentioned it felt like the book was split into 3 distinct parts: The 1st part where Bond is playing cards to find out why Hugo Drax is cheating at an exclusive club.
Admittedly I didn’t know the card game they were playing so I was lost on some of the terms but it shows how well it was written to draw me in.The 2nd part is Bond being sent to the Moonraker site after someone is murdered.
I have read several of Ian Fleming's Bond books, this one is at the bottom of the list.The most infuriating thing about this book is the middle third section which gets bogged down in pointless detail about rocket ships, missiles and physics.
We also get more pointless details about food and drink in the casino scene and this obsession gets so dull that at one point, I almost put the book down for keeps.
Should you decide to read Moonraker be warned that it gets EXCEEDINGLY boring at points and will require some perseverence and resolve to get through.
Here you are, sat on a balcony in a faraway part of the world, at three o'clock in the morning because you have All The Jetlag - and have I mentioned this might be the hottest place you have ever been?
- and you realise that what with one thing and another, you have not actually finished reading a book in close to a month.The last time this happened was probably five or six years ago.It has been a month full of very brain-intensive work, and you have only just managed to escape.
England probably suffered as much from the Second World War as any of the defeated Axis powers, what with rationing continuing until 1954, two years after Ian Fleming began the James Bond series, and the year before Moonraker was published.Just imagine the English taking in the scene of the duel at Blades between Fleming super-villain Sir Hugo Drax and one "Commander Bond." The gambling club is flowing with rare French champagnes and Beluga caviar.
and then walking away leaving James and Gala simply tied up.
The villain is still Hugo Drax, but his background...well, I don't want any spoilers.Overall this is a good novel, although a much more straightforward spy action/adventure story rather than the far out movie of the same name.
Both are really good in their own way.As a huge James Bond fan, I'm not sure why I have waited so long to read the novels but I'm glad I'm finally getting around to it.
If you like the movies, you'll probably like the books even with the differences.
If you don't like the movies, you may still like the books because they are more realistic and pretty good reads.
My favorite James Bond yet! A thrilling card game, a sinister plot involving a nuclear warhead, and a good old fashioned car chase fulfilled all of my action needs. I quite liked the relationship Bond had with Ms. Brand (specifically that it didn't go at all as he expected it to) and the detailed writing in this novel is just absolutely luxurious.
Digital audiobook performed by Simon VanceBook three in the original James Bond series, starts with a little personal task.
A noted British hero, Sir Hugo Drax, has been playing cards at M’s private club, and M suspects the man is cheating.
Of course, there’s a lovely young woman who’s paired with Bond to ferret out the truth behind Sir Hugo Drax’s magnanimous offer of a dedicated atomic rocket to protect and defend England, paid for out of his own pocket.
He sets a good pace for this kind of thriller, and I love his voice for both Bond and the villainous Drax.
Once again I am pleasantly surprised by the pleasures of the Bond series.
Bill Nighy is so good as a reader, ironic yet sensitive.
In the interview afterwards he talks about how unexpectedly good the writing is and how sensitively Fleming handles the romantic scenes.
Bond doesn't get the girl--and Gala Brand is a great creation, clever and resourceful.
Polished prose and vivid character descriptions, lots of action and some violence--but a great car chase--pageturning pace, gritty and intense tone.
This is part of a series of audios from Blackstone, all read by celebrities (British actors of note).
Chiar mi-a plăcut cartea asta, se vede că Fleming crește că scriitor, deși nu era vreo capodoperă. Are multe limitări, dar îmi place că încearcă.Acțiunea se petrece de data asta acasă. Cumva Fleming e conștient de propriile clișee și se joacă cu ele. Investigația lui în jurul șantierului rachetei Moonraker devine foarte interesantă foarte repede, însă mai avem timp să aflăm mai multe despre organizația din care face parte Bond, despre omul de dincolo de aventura la limită, și, evident, dacă se combină cu Gala Brand.
There's a point in this book when a female operative has missed an appointment with Bond because she was kidnapped after discovering a madman's plot to basically destroy the world. M and Bond are discussing her no-show and M says something like, "she probably just had a fainting fit, but I guess we should go look for her to be on the safe side."That's pretty typical of this book. It's unrepentantly misogynistic and xenophobic, but holy crap snacks is it fun. Can I please enjoy this book even though Ian Fleming was a major douche?
Well more like 3.5 but yes, so like so many people I have also the task of trying to read this huge series in somewhat of an order so having read first three books, yes the consensus is right and Ian Fleming's writing definitely improved compared to the first two books.
And then through the course of his investigations finally the mystery is resolved and it is huge.
There are not huge action set pieces here and Bond has yet to turn in to the action star of the movies.So sit back homie, relax pick a book and Keep on Reading.
The more of the Bond novels I read, the more disappointed I am with the movies.
If the movies were honest adaptations of the titles they were using, the quality of the films would have been a million times better.
I'm just glad I'm doing the right thing and reading the Bond novels now.
But Fleming did a very good job portraying a very realist (for the time) nightmare scenario.
And I'm sure I'll say the same thing for all the rest of the novels I have yet to get to.
V cool. Again, nothing like the film - no space stations, cable-car battles or Jaws. Just boring old Dover and a rocket, but it's marvellous. Quaintly dated rather than amusingly so like some of the others I've read this year, he doesn't even get the girl!Although she is called Gala Brand, and they do survive a cliff falling on them, so it does maintain a certain level of ridiculousness I expect from Bond.
I finished reading 'Moonraker' close to midnight last night. Loved it! Drax is as bad as can be, Gala Brand is tough and gorgeous and 007 is, well, the invincible "Bond, James Bond." This one has a bit of a slow start with a high-stakes game of bridge, but then the action picks up and blasts off just like the rocket, Moonraker. So if you're a James Bond fan, this is a must read.
