https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1457221.Years_of_Grace
This book, which won the Pulitzer prize in 1931, was mentioned in a modern novel I had just read, and I was intrigued enough to go looking for it.
While I know which side I would be on; and the main character of the novel, Jane Ward, was clear as well about what she believed was the right way to be, she pondered the issue enough to at least recognize the merits of the other side, and to wonder if perhaps only time will tell which way works out best for the ones who make that kind of decision.
I found myself looking forward to my next opportunity to read a chapter or two, always wondering what would be next!The story is well-written, but firmly set in the late 19th and early 20th centuries with (some) corresponding outdated attitudes and social expectations, which may be a stumbling block for some readers.
However, the issues and dilemmas which Jane faces throughout her lifetime are ageless and timeless and provide much "food for thought" for the reader.It is unfortunate that this winner of the Pulitzer of 1931 is out of print and consequently difficult to obtain.
At first I thought this book was going to be a nightmare to read--simple prose, all about a proper girl named Jane.
I only had to look up one word* in the entire 500+ pages, which means easy old-fashioned reading!But in spite of the simple prose and vocabulary, the story does get good.
Jane seems so simple, often confused, and just good.
Should we chase dreams and risk a good thing, or should we give up on joy for security?*smilax, which apparently was used to decorate at parties circa 1890-1930, is a plant genus.
A major failing of the book, though, is that Barnes just simply didn't manage to pass off the Jane/Jimmy love affair as believable.
Not only did it seem forced and disingenuous; but it also seemed sordid and infantile.But perhaps the biggest flaw in the book is Barnes's utter inability to capture anything real and complex about any of the male characters in the story.
All the men in the novel were either one of two types: (1) the charming, dispassionate, good guy and steady/true husband and wise father -- albeit a bit clueless about love and passion, and always cuckolded --; and (2) the sneaky, handsome, rogue lady-killer and marriage-destroying gigolo doing the cuckolding.
Jane is a completely likable, relatable character, but the author doesn’t romanticize her and sees her with a certain amount of ironic detachment.
Unlike most chick-lit, both pulpy and literary, Years of Grace doesn’t portray marriage as a finish line in the race to Happily Ever After.
But neither is Jane’s marriage some kind of mid-century Lifetime melodrama, with an abusive or domineering husband.
Jane is sometimes miserable, sometimes content, and often bored with her kind but often oblivious husband.
And their marriage goes through many natural changes as the two characters age.This book is rather slow-moving.
But slow-moving doesn’t have to mean boring.
A good read to reflect on life. Not super exciting, but enough to hold my attention. It is the book that that is referred to numerous times in Violets of March. It peaked my curiosity enough to buy it on eBay since it is out of print. I enjoyed the outlook of Jane as a teenager, married with children adult and then elder and her thoughts on her life and the lives of her children and parents and how it changes from one generation to the next.
More boring Americana. The struggles of marriage, family obligations, and the coming generation. Best line...."you could never believe that [children] would grow up to disappoint you."
Right book at the right time for me.
I checked it out last year (for book set in the place you were born on our 2017 Book Bingo).
Between our 6-month check out and renewing, it sat waiting for me until now when it was exactly what I needed.
I haven’t been able to read any fiction since May, but this broke that spell.
It is very Edith Wharton-Henry James -ish but more midwestern and slightly a soap opera.
Set in Chicago, it follows Jane Ward from teens to mid-fifties.
Still, its depiction of the conflicts around time, marriage and different generations still remain true.
As I've noted in Pulitzers of this age, the writing was incredibly simple.
A very simple story - but one I liked.
The writing though, was almost just a list of things that happened.
She bought cake there.
She put the cake in the bag.
She brought the cake home.
She ate the cake” If this had been one of the first Pulitzers I'd read from that time I would probably have hated it.
But I'm used the simple writing style and realize they used to award the Pulitzer more on story than writing style, as they do now.
This book settles in with many of the first twenty years of the Pulitzer winners for fiction in providing a perspective on the immense changes in American life at the turn of the 20th century. However, unlike the stories that stories that detail great downfalls or family strife in this time, Barnes presents a heroine who couches her development through her romantic connections. This story was OK- interesting enough and well-described. But it highlights Wharton's superior talent in capturing the same period and presenting the same themes so much more beautifully in the Age of Innocence and Ethan Frome.
Check another one off the Pulitzer list. This was similar to other prize winners. Since it is out of print, I had to request it from my public library through interlibrary loan. Well worth it! It was interesting to see how people are the same now as there were 100 years ago.
(JANE)Do beautiful rainbow - colored bubbles, all made up of watery ideas and soap vocabulary, floating airily, without foundation, in the void, mean nothing in your life.There's a lot of nomad in me, you know.
(pg 352, Jimmy)When you love people, you've got to be decent.
He was dying just a at the time Jane felt she could have rewarded his love and symphony as never before.
The emotional life of a parent was a fantastic thought.… Jane knew how they had looked.
(p247/248, Jane) ALL LIVES ARE DIFFICULT AT TIMES (Mr Ward)It was touching to think the anyone could have the courage to believe that life could begin over again at fifty.
This book is like looking through a window into the life of a very average woman in the late 1800s/early 1900s. Our protagonist Jane is a well-educated, but relatively conventional woman who struggles to be a "modern woman", a loyal wife, and an understanding mother, despite the often confounding choices of those she cares about. Watching her grow (the story follows her from childhood to old age) is an odd delight - her and the characters around her feel so real! That being said, the plot is almost non-existent. There's a lot of meandering and navel-gazing. 3/5
While the novel is entertaining and well written, the conflicts are extremely anachronistic. However, it does a good job showing that the worries of our parents are different than our worries and our worries are different than our children's worries. As time passes on social mores evolve. I guess this makes the central theme of this book: "Nothing is constant except change".
quaint and chaste
Why are all the men in this book so terrible and why do the women fall for all of them?
This book tells the story of Jane Ward, from when she is 14 years old, until she is 51, and takes place primarily in Chicago from the 1890's to around the late 1920's.
The book follows Jane's life, with her first-love experience as a teenager, her college years, young married with children, then later in life, with several grandchildren.
There were side-trips taken over the years to New York, and Europe, which added to the interest of the book.
Added to this all the references to fashions, decorating, hobbies, commerce, and transportation of that time-period made this a very interesting read.

She falls in love and has some issues with her parents over her choice to marry, goes to college, eventually returns and marries and has children of her own.
I loved the section on her annual trip to her in laws' place and the part where she gets bored in her marriage.
The book, while following social norms of the time, has a contemporary feel in some ways - specifically in the feelings Jane has about her marriage, her parents, her in laws and her children.
Eventually, she also faces intergenerational issues with her own children which echo the ones Jane faced years earlier.I recommend this book.
This one wasn't bad, but it seemed to take me forever to read it (it was also almost 600 pages).
The first couple of parts were really good, and the third, Jimmy, wasn't bad either.
However, the last 150 pages of the book were pretty painful.
I would have given it 4 stars if we hadn't have had to read for pages and pages about her grown up children misbehaving.
It was also surprisingly hard to find.
Hopefully as these books enter the public domain their popularity will rise again, because this really overall was a pretty decent book.
Years of Grace is typical of the Pulitzer's I've read pre-1940 so far.
Years of Grace takes place in Chicago, and focuses on one girl and her desires versus her duties to her family and society.
It's split into three books - the first on her late teenage years, the second jumps ahead to college, her marriage and having kids and the third as a 51 years old with her own children.
It has themes that resonate today about the passage of time, duty and honor.
The prose is written in very short sentences but once I got through some of it and got into the rhythm of the book it became a very quick read.
An amazing, enjoyable, and quite long novel of Jane, a young woman in 1890s era Chicago. The book follows her thoughts and experiences with her family, romances, children, and friends from girlhood to middle age. There were many poignant truths in this 1931 Pulitzer Prize winning novel that hold true to the 21st century. The characters were memorable. I also gained insight into the social and cultural expectations of my grandmothers and mother (who came of age the same years as covered in the book).
I have to give this novel 5 stars because it won the Pulitzer Prize! Regardless, it rates five stars for being a very readable book about life as it happens--without a single cliche; about conventional topics--without foregone conclusions. The author explores the age-old issue of generational differences with subtlety and provocative depth. The characters are satisfyingly developed and sufficiently complex. Plus, it was just fun to read a book written nearly 85 years ago, when driving in a car was "motoring" and the word "awfully" was used everywhere you might expect to read "very."
I've had this book on my list for a while after reading a book where it was repeatedly referred to as comparable to "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" and that it was a story that had meant a great deal to the author in their life. I don't agree that this book bears any significant resemblance to "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" other than the small section which takes place in New York, and perhaps the era may have been close. I really didn't find anything compelling about this book.
Good story and character development. I enjoyed the early 20th century voice it was written with. I did not like the writing style in the first part although I understand why the author did this. Writing was south better in the second part and on. Overall I enjoyed it and did grow to love the main characters.
The story of Jane Ward's life may not be fraught with danger and intrigue over its 581 pages, but it is told with a quiet and witty introspection. She is a woman of her time and lives a normal life of domesticity and duty. But I find myself hoping that if my normal life were put on paper I would hope it would be told with the same amount of dignity and grace.
What an interesting read. A library book club selection, this book was picked due to it's Chicago setting and that it won the Pulitzer in 1931. Although it is not the most modern of writing stlyes, I thought that the book offered great reflection on the history of society and more specifically women's roles and attitudes in the early 20th century.
I really enjoyed this - a story of a life from childhood until the kids are grown. Granted, she nearly makes some crazy choices, but it was a nice snapshot into Chicago and life for upper class women in Chicago in the turn of the 20th century. Hard to hear the guy say "I hate college women." different time...glad I am not there
Such an enjoyable book!
A book that follows Jane Ward throughout her life from first love at 14 and then to Married love with Grandchildren around you. This book shows us one girls decisions and what they cost her and that same girl having the fortitude to stick to these same decisions whether they were good, bad or indifferent.
