https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122413.Asterix_and_the_Laurel_Wreath
„Latürnich! Recht hat er, der Dingsbums!“ I read this line before I had ever been intoxicated and it made me laugh then. Now that I understand what it means to imbibe, it makes me howl with laughter every time I read it. Still one of the funniest stories I've ever read.
Verhorragend!Unsere Gallier trinken immer Cervisia, den Vorläufer des Biers. Was passieren kann, wenn man sie plötzlich mit einem stärkeren Getränk, wie Wein, konfrontiert, sieht man hier: Sturzbesoffene gallische Häuptlinge und ein total dichter Hinkelsteinlieferant. Ganz offensichtlich verträgt insbesondere Obelix den Wein überhaupt nicht, und wenn dann noch Schlafentzug im wilden Nachtleben Roms dazu kommt, auf der sklavischen Suche nach einer exklusiven Ragout-Zutat für den verwöhnten Schwager...Für mich der beste Band der Reihe bisher, mit Abstand. Mindestens viermal habe ich laut gelacht. Und das ohne vorherigen Alkoholkonsum!
Εχει μέλλον ο Αστερίξ; Την απορία μου την έλυσε ο γιός μου. Που όχι μόνο του αρέσει το κόμικς αλλά έχει δημιουργήσει τη δική του συλλογή στην βιβλιοθήκη του.
Asterix and the Laurel Wreath (Astérix #18), René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
(view spoiler)[ ne znam zašto mi dođe da zapevam 'ruzmarine moj zeleni' (hide spoiler)]
Αν και ο σκοπός μου είναι να τα διαβάσω όπως πρωτοκυκλοφόρησαν στην Γαλλία, μου προτάθηκε από μια ψυχή το προκείμενο τεύχος, "Οι δάφνες του Καίσαρα", ως το καλύτερο της σειράς και είπα να κάνω μια εξαίρεση.
Η ιστορία πάει τους δύο αγαπημένους Γαλάτες στην κυριολεξία όπου τους πάρει ο άνεμος προς αναζήτηση του δάφνινου στεφανιού του γιου της λύκαινας ενώ περιέχει ίσως την καλύτερη τριπλέτα καρέ που έγραψε ο Γκοσινύ και σχεδίασε ο Ουντερζό: Μετά το μεθύσι στο σπίτι του Ομοιοπαθίξ όπου έχει μεθύσει ο Μαζεστίξ και ο Οβελίξ και ειπώνονται ατάκες όπως "Σοπωδήποτε", "Ελα στην αγκαλιά μου" και "Να πάτε αλλού να γλεντήσετε με την φιλενάδα σας, ξεδιάντροποι!".
The scenes of drunken bravado by Vitalstatistix and Obelix are absolutely hilarious. The premise of a despised brother-in-law (named Homeopathix!) prodding a Gaulish tribal chief to make over-the-top promises (providing a banquet with stew seasoned by Caesar's laurel wreath) makes for an awesome story. And for the first time, Obelix over-indulges in wine. "Zigackly! Whatsisname ish ferpectly right! Hic!" "Let go of me, Asterix! We're going to Rome to bring back Chaeshar's laurel wreath! Zigactly!" Goscinny returns to the pickled Obelix theme a few times during the story. It works every time. Enjoy!
"O álcool bebido sem moderação é o pai de todos os vícios..."
Asterix e Obelix, naturalmente, che come nella migliore commedia degli equivoci, passeranno da schiavi a prigionieri a gladiatori a banditi prima di riuscire nell'impresa.Albo che, per la prima volta, non comincia al villaggio ma a Lutezia e, in maniera davvero geniale, la mette a confronto con Roma (confronto che ovviamente strizza l'occhio alle due moderne metropoli).
Roma è riprodotta accuratamente, seppure ogni aspetto, dalla vendita degli schiavi ai banditi, è satireggiato e "modernizzato" per quanto possibile.Da non perdere la vendita di Asterix e Obelix come schiavi e la running gag di Obelix ubriaco.
Life in the big city16 October 2013 This album sees Asterix and Obelix return to Rome to assist Chief Vitalstatistix save face after a drunken boast made at the house of his despised brother-in-law in Lutetia. Basically his brother-in-law is quite a rich merchant, who doesn't have to travel any more because he has other people to do that for him. Anyway, Impedimentia (the Chief's wife) seems to be a little upset that her brother is a well to do merchant while her husband is the chief of a villag
Life in the big city16 October 2013	This album sees Asterix and Obelix return to Rome to assist Chief Vitalstatistix save face after a drunken boast made at the house of his despised brother-in-law in Lutetia.
However the mind set of living in such a city and being able to shop at places like that, as well has having a house in a pricey suburb and driving an expensive car, creates the belief that one has succeeded, and gives the impression to those around you that unless they do the same thing then they have not succeeded.
One of the more slenderly-plotted volumes, this one takes Asterix and Obelix to Rome to steal Caesar's wreath, so it can be sued to season a stew.
There are some nice satirical moments (e.g. the commodification of people, via the bits about slavery) and good gags (e.g. Obelix's difficulty in getting a good night's sleep in Rome).
Also one of the few Asterix books to experiment a very little bit with non-linear narrative, beginning in Rome and then circling back to explain how we got there.
Blink and you'll miss the pirates' cameo, but they do turn up, briefly.
One of the fun parts about this series is the names.
In this case there is Homeopathia, Pedimenta, Tapoica, Typhus, Fibular, Tibia, Metatarsus and Goldendelicious, among others.Asterix and Obelix need to get Caesar's laurel wreath in order to season some food they are fixing for a guest.
The two of them sell themselves as slaves to get into the palace and that works, but only indirectly.
Asterix makes an incredibly spicy dish that one person in the family loves since it's the perfect cure for a bad hangover.There's the usual beating up of the Romans and lots of other humorous things going on.
Idea geniale, sviluppata in modo un po’ disordinato. In ogni caso, la permanenza di Asterix e Obelix in veste di schiavi nella casa di Claudius Chiunquefus è memorabile. Vivace e spassosa la presentazione dell’ambiente luteziano (urbano e domestico) in apertura della storia.
...
Erzählerischer Höhepunkt, latürnich ... von der Eifersuchts- und Wettbewerbsgetriebenen Ausgangssituation bis zur Schlussszene ein Lesegenuss.
Not my favorites.
Vitalstatistix boasts that he will serve his brother-in-law a stew containing Ceaser's laurel wreath. He sends his best men, Asterix and Obelix, to Rome to obtain said wreath. Funny and inventive. One of the best Asterix stories.
Beautiful
The best comic book in all "Asterix" series.
Les Lauriers de César - René GoscinnyRating: ★★ 1/2Review coming soon!
L'un des meilleurs!
A edição que nos deu uma das melhores piadas da série: Obelix bêbado. FERPEITAMENTE!
Asterix the champion. Hooray.
very good. it was interesting to see the duo struggling to accomplish their mission and causing mayhem in their wake.
به عنوان تجربهٔ خوندن به فرانسه، جالب بود. خصوصا که بعضی ظرافتهای کلامی و بدوبیراهها رو به طرز متفاوتی تجربه میکردم
به عنوان تجربهٔ خوندن به فرانسه، جالب بود. خصوصا که بعضی ظرافت‌های کلامی و بدوبیراه‌ها رو به طرز متفاوتی تجربه می‌کردم
Kun päällikkö lyö vetoa, lähtevät Asterix ja Obelix Roomaan hakemaan Caesarin seppelettä. Palatsiin pääseminen ei ole tietenkään ihan helppoa, mutta ainahan keinot keksii.
à noite saiem da cela, procuram a coroa de louros por todo o palácio mas não a encontram.
São então julgados (com uma paródia à retórica dos advogados) e Astérix faz um comovente discurso apelando à sua condenação na esperança de serem condenados a ser comidos pelos leões no Coliseu na presença de César que usaria nesse dia a sua coroa de louros.
Mas no dia do cumprimento da pena quando estão para entrar na arena astérix sabe que César não está no camarote e por isso recusa-se a entrar.
E quando nessa noite vão assaltar, o primeiro que encontram é Gracchus, o jovem filho devasso do administrador do palácio, que salvam dos bandidos dando-lhes uma tareia.
figures of speech and wordplay experts
The amount of research done by the duo of Goscinny and Uderzo for the adventures of Asterix shows itself once again in the opening pages of book 18, “The Laurel Wreath”.
In order to make Vitalstatistix’ claim true and save the honour of their village, Asterix and Obelix will have to infiltrate into the palace of Ceasar and steal his prestigious wreath.
But getting into the palace proves to be a tougher challenge than expected…Few comic book series have been as consistently excellent as the Asterix books.
“The Laurel Wreath” proves to be just as excellent as the previous 17 installments.
Astérix et Obélix les accompagnent mais, lors du repas du soir, le chef du village et Obélix se retrouvent saoûls et prétendent dans leur moment d'ivresse pouvoir voler la couronne de lauriers de Jules César (« Farpaitement !
Homéopatix met au défi Astérix et Obélix de le faire.*Ce tome se distingue en abordant des sujets tels que l'esclavage, l'alcool et le brigandage, et comporte un soupçon de nudité.L'album est également riche en allusions historiques et artistiques :La campagne de Jules César contre les pirates et leur apparition lors du triomphe sont inspirées d'un incident historique.
Une fois au pouvoir, il les a fait capturer.
Not quite as good as I remember, but you can't go wrong with Asterix really can you?However, two things occurred to me:1. Are the brilliant English puns around the names straight translations, or do other countries have different names for the characters? What's the French for Getafix?2. How come I've managed to buy my son a 1st edition? What sort of second hand bookshop is this? Obviously I'll have to look after it for him...
Sabia de Asterix y Obelix por las peliculas, pero nunca había leido uno de sus comics. Acá, el lider de la aldea les pide que roben la corona de Laurel del Cesar para hacer un guiso, y los galos tendrán que venderse como esclavos, intentar comprarse, ser juzgados, ser prisioneros, abogados, ladrones y otras aventuras traidas por los pelos.Sencillo,entretenido y no le hace daño a nadie, con un dibujo dinámico y precioso de Uderzo.
Reliving my childhood again - reading through the panels got me reminiscing about the time where my brothers and I would plough through the library in search for Asterix. It's so different reading it as an adult in contrast to almost 20 years ago. Love how each of the characters are introduced and gradually grows on you.
I completley forgot that this episode was such a good one. While trying to attain the laurel in Rome, A. & O. end up as 'luxury slaves' in a Roman household. A bit heavy on the booze, this book, but it's (sometimes) part of the plot.
AWESOME!!! There is nothing that comes close to Asterix - I have the whole series, both on e-books and hard-copy and they are some of most treasured possessions. I grew up with them and they are simply the best!
All Asterix books by Goscinny & Uderzo have been read aloud to me as a child and later reread by me. #childhoodmemories #childhoodfavourites #ohthefeels
A silly bet turns Asterix and Obelix into thieves in this fun comic book. Does Asterix's mannerisms on the cover remind anyone else of Oliver Hardy?
This book was about Asterix and Oblix and the went to a town and the prices were really high and they helped some really rich people.
Six out of ten. CBR format.In a rash bet, Chief Vitalstatistix promised he could use Caesar's laurel wreath to season a stew. Asterix and Obelix set off to Rome to procur said item.
An intriguing Asterix tale where the loud mouths and fiery tempers of Vitalstatistix and his cousin launch Asterix and Obelix on a quixotic quest for Caesar’s laurel wreath, and the two navigate a web of intrigue and silliness to get it. It includes the usual number of subtle, humorous jokes, historical references (Spartacus shows up at one point) and excellent artwork. It also includes a hilarious parody of Roman jurisprudence. Humorous.
The first Asterix book I read and therefore one of my favourites.
Good but not as good as the other Asterix books.
Hilarious and highly amusing.
parsley, what a laugh!
I think it was a good book really liked.
Genial humor.
when vitalstatistix and impedimenta (accompanied by asterix and obelix) visit impedimenta's brother (who adores impedimenta and annoys vitalstatistix), trouble is sure to brew. but little did asterix know that it how far the trouble would go. vitalstatistix(after a great deal of wine) invites his more-than-well-to-do brother to his village and boasts that his soup will be seasoned by ceasar's laurel wreath, leading asteris and obelix into another hilarious adventure, filled with fun and frolic
