https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177404.The_Waiting_Years
Considered the grand dame of Japanese literature with a life spanning most of the 20th century, The Waiting Years is Enchi's crowning achievement.
A story set in the colonial Meiji period, The Waiting Years is a tale about a man of prominence, his astute wife, and his unquenched lust for women that lands him multiple concubines.
The two concubines remain, however, and after years of marriage, Tomo and Yukitomo remain husband and wife in name only.
The Waiting Years is worthy of inclusion as it features a strong female protagonist in Tomo, and brings to light the treatment of concubines and the place of women in a marriage in colonial Japan.
He’s tired of just having the maids on the side, so he sends his wife on a several month-long journey to Tokyo to find a concubine for him.
(view spoiler)[He starts a long-term affair with his daughter-in-law; the wife of his mentally deficient son.
When he tires of them, she tries to find them husbands even though they are “damaged goods.” The culture is so male-dominated, that when she becomes ill and wants to see a specialized doctor, she has to ask her daughter to talk to her husband (the woman’s son-in-law) to get him to ask permission of her husband.
For eight long years, Enchi lived with Yukitomo , his women and the intricate functioning of the Shirakawa family thriving in a dominant patriarchal society ; scripting every sentiment, every desperation that oozed from the festering wounds of humiliation, loneliness, agony, betrayal, the survival of powerless among the powerful, wretchedness of poverty , slavery, fallen desires, hopeful dreams , love , repulsion, adultery and the immense longing of freedom inescapable from the shackles of an authoritarian egotistical patriarchy.
Not only was she a dutiful wife, but a wise mother, astute mistress of the household and a loving grandmother ,yet, in all these roles she misplaced her inner-self somewhere ; the woman in Tomo was lost amongst her societal obligations.
"The strength that was a fraction greater than his own made him feel ill at ease in her presence." The quiet, abiding strength that a woman unknowingly (sometimes knowingly) possesses, a force that rests upon the floor of her instincts and lives within the crevice of her subconscious; a force sometimes never uncovered from the hidden spaces of her conscious, because it adheres to the lies of the community around her. It is the kind of strength that instills within her a calmness that jolts; the
He runs his household as he does his province, like a coward whose shield is the number of women, fine clothes, and jewelry he procures, whose authority is measured by how inhumane he treats the people around me.Next to this kind of man, you'll sometimes find the woman of the quiet strength.
And what of the psychological threat to the son?To the people around her, Tomo's thoughts are ineffectual, her words almost nonexistent, but her strength reigns as mistress of a house that shelters three of her husband's lovers, one of them her own daughter-in-law.
4.5/5 She felt like laughing at Michimasa and the other husband, Iwamoto–laughing with the utterly cold and beautiful laugh of the harpy who rips open the bellies of pregnant women... It is peculiar, how one is expected to react to the codifications of lust. The age of consent in the US may no longer be seven, as it was around the time Tomo was growing through her prime, but the tenterhooks upon which the sexual impulses of young females are put are still a marvel to behold. Of course, Japan is
The age of consent in the US may no longer be seven, as it was around the time Tomo was growing through her prime, but the tenterhooks upon which the sexual impulses of young females are put are still a marvel to behold.
Those who've grown to expect a further fetish along the lines of Memoirs of a Geisha would be much better off breaking themselves on Enchi and her lot.
My piddling thoughts are no match for her insight of knives."Jailbait", "got herself pregnant", "frigid", some of these used, some of these implied, and some of these a modern inheritance, all transmuting penises into a sensory organ of paramount sociocultural weight.
Me ha gustado mucho, incluso más que 'Máscaras femeninas' ¿Por qué no hay nada más traducido de esta gran autora al castellano? Con solo dos novelas se ha convertido en una de mis escritoras orientales preferidas :3
The Waiting Years by Fumiko Enchi brings an in-depth look at the lives of four women in a male-dominated Japanese society. Originally published in 1957, this is a beautifully written story of Tomo, Suga, Yumi, and Miya. With heart-wrenching prose, we experience their loneliness and struggles through their long waiting years. Fumiko Enchi has a simple style of writing and develops her characters in a subtle lovely way. This is not a book to be rushed through. The novel starts out slow but progresses nicely and draws you in.A truly beautifully written feminist novel.4 out of 5 stars.
Me ha gustado más que el anterior libro que leí de esta autora ("Máscaras femeninas").
En esta ocasión nos sitúa en la era Meiji y nos habla de un tema tan complejo como son las concubinas de los hombres de poder, contándolo en su mayor parte desde el punto de vista de las propias chicas y también de la señora del susodicho.
Es un libro que sobre todo transmite tristeza y nos acerca a la realidad de tantas vidas de mujeres perdidas a la sombra de un hombre autoritario y despreciable.
La pluma de Fumiko Enchi es adictiva y es una lástima que no hayan traducido más libros suyos.
A few years later, a servant is "elevated" to the role of concubine 2 and then for good measure a daughter in law is added to the harem.Through it all Tomo retains an air of calm, running the very complicated household without a murmur.
She marries off concubine 2 when her husband tires of her, sees that her daughter is married and settled comfortably and bites her lip at the "secret" affair between her husband and her son's wife, secret in that everyone knows about it apart from the son.Then she dies.An interesting insight into a world far removed in time and culture from my own.
It starts with Tomo - wife of a high Japanese official - looking for a young girl to be brought home.
I loved that we get very close into the heads of the women, offering insights that I never felt I got when I read the other big name Japanese authors - who happen to be mostly male.
And that brought me to conclude, that this book I think could only be written by a woman, and I'm thankful Fumiko Enchi gave voices to these women and made them real.
Es interesante este retrato de la vida doméstica japonesa, que muchas veces pareciera tan cerrada: el sistema de relaciones y ética de aquel país pareciera rígido, con el papel de las mujeres siempre subyugado al de los hombres (como en el resto del mundo), pero en estos personajes, se observa con más detenimiento.
Además, el estilo de Enchi es un deleite: es una prosa fluida, pero suave que nos involucra en la vida de mujeres y hombres como espectadores en casas ordendas y silenciosas, en donde la naturaleza también se encuentra en armonía con las emociones y pensamientos de los protagonistas.
In one case, too much so as I found the introduction of their son into the story quite jarring.I originally thought that husband Yukitomo was as much a victim of late 19th century customs as the unfortunate women who he controls, but now I think he was just a self centred, not very bright jerk, who never realised what a treasure he had in his wife, Tomo.I've thought about what I know about Japanese customs & the importance of saving face & now realise (view spoiler)[Tomo's final actions are a gentle revenge.
As secrets go, this state of affairs was an open secret hidden only to the truly naive.The fear of poverty haunts the women in this novel: a fear of remaining in poverty and never finding a suitable match, and the fear of destitution after the rejection of the male, even after finding that match.These fears are embodied most strongly in the book by Yukitomo's stalwart wife, Tomo, who stoically endures the corrosive tortures to her psyche that accrue over decades of her husband's habitual philandering and her own feelings of valuelessness.
I love the The Waiting Years for its subtly creepy, haunting feel and its simple writing style. My heart went out to every woman in the story.Read it slowly, and then maybe flip through it again. This is a book that should be savored.
The work spans perhaps 40 years showing the experience of Tomo Shirikawai, the perfect wife for this authoritarian politician and husband.
She is cool to her daughter; the young teens who have her husband’s eye; her son whose upbringing is farmed out; her favorite grandson whom she wants to protect from the family secrets; and of course, her husband to whom she cannot directly speak.This book is slow.
Each scene is important to showing the reader the situation and how over the years life evolved for women such as Tomo.
Tomo is hurt that her husband needs another woman, but is glad she can have input into the type of woman she will introduce to her household.
Despite these handicaps, she has more power than the other women in her household as she makes business decisions when her husband does not.The book also shows the changes in Japanese life during the Meiji Restoration when Japan changed from a small, insular, contained society to a militaristic, industrial nation.I would give the book 5 stars, except that there were plot threads that seemed to go nowhere.
Tomo is beautiful young woman from poor but noble (samurai) family, wife of wealthy and succesful young and handsome Japanese nobleman (samurai, but of much better origin than her) whom she loves and who married her in her age of 14.
And Suga beginns to love her master and suffers jealousy and hateres toward Tomo, but feels pitty for her, too.
He falls in lifetime love with Miya and remains in it till her death (but he still sleeps with Suga, too), while (alone) Tomo terrible fears that her son finds it...
As with Enchi's Masks, the novel starts out a little slow (which is something I've come to appreciate in fiction), but begins to pick up after five or ten pages--not in terms of plot, necessarily, but in character complexity and a dark, slow-sinking sense of foreboding.
A lot of the novel's tension comes from the juxtaposition of surface "normalcy" (in large part through straightforward syntax and descriptions that sometimes border more on telling than showing) and the intangible, sinister, lurking sense of impending doom that lies beneath.
Still, one doesn't need a reference dictionary nearby to appreciate the novel; all that it asks of the reader is openness, patience, and curiosity.
The story of an upper-class family in early Meiji era and its many torments.
However I'll admit I didn't really like it.
It's not that I don't like sad stories, but it lacks contrast.
Not that it lacks realism...
But it's almost comical how his simple, wild need to be surrounded by young beautiful women leads to so much thoughts and yet so little actions against it.
Sure, the women are acting based on the moral code of that time and I guess it was her point to show how they were bound by family and honor.
But it does make for a fairly stale story when everyone accepts its fate from the onset.
Soția acceptă concubinele(de care se îngrijește cu milă) și gheișele, tânjește în tăcere după o relație intimă, se străduiește să mărească averea familiei și să îi mențină onoarea. La moartea ei topește orgoliul soțului, testamentul dezvăluind emoțiile ascunse, cerând să fie aruncată în mare, iar nu o înmormântare pe măsura rangului.
She seems to work much harder than her husband and he is disturbed by the awareness that she is the stronger of the two.Equally, Tomo’s self-control might be (and often is, by other characters) perceived as coldness, heartlessness, but again and again we are told that she feels compassion, guilt, fierce love, blazing desire.
That worldly things like family ties and desire for love bind us more tightly to the wheel is an idea Tomo explicitly reflects on when she looks pityingly at Suga’s empty lap when other young women are playing with their babies.
Yet her experience suggests that without the freedom to pursue such ends, it’s not possible to become free of desire for them.
A dissection of a marriage once filled with love slowly spiraling to loathing.
Tomo, a traditional dutiful Japanese wife, faces her husband’s request in accordance with traditional and culture.
Tomo a woman respectfully abides tradition, honors her husband with great grace and poise.
Intelligence is on Tomo’s side as she ultimately prevails in the end.Exquisitely written, impeccably detailed Tomo’s story is revealed slowly stirring the reader with affection.
A close examination of the unjustness of traditional Japanese societal expeditions demonstrated unfairness towards females.
This tale is told in a stark, simplistic, matter-of-fact, almost distanced manner that underlines “a certain formality of speech and manner,” “a certain remoteness” in its protagonist. It is a heartbreaking tale of interpersonal and societal tragedy, powerful in its air of unrelieved gloom.
Rec'd by Brina
Me gustan mucho las historias japoneses, sobre todo tan cotidianas como esta, pero no puedo evitar sentir mucha rabia por el trato que reciben las mujeres en este libro.
Good wife Tomo is driven to an early grave by the agonies placed upon her, but that's what a good wife does, so oh well; husband Yukitomo takes his superiority for granted and never thinks to question it, even as his lechery and cruelty grow out of societal bounds, and no one in his family challenges him because it simply isn't done; son Michizane is an idiot, but though Tomo and Yukitomo agree on that, he's still their heir, because he's the eldest son and that's just the way it is.The result of such unthinking obedience, of course, is what always results from unthinking obedience: pain.
This is a wonderful novel for feminists and Japanese history/literature buffs, but it's also a novel that deserves a place alongside the greatest stories about the danger of following blindly.-Elizabeth ReuterAuthor, The Demon of Renaissance Drive
l'ombra che muove gli alberi nella nottenon si fa mai caso all'ombra, è l'esatto opposto della luce,
Fumiko Enchi's tale of a dutiful wife sent over the years to find her replacements a beautifully written and heart-wrenching one.
Tomo's husband sends her to retrieve a him a new "maid." Tomo understands that will not be the girl's true duty for she will become his mistress and she won't be the only one.
Tomo watches as each new girl comes into her home and takes away a part of her life.
As the husband and wife grow further apart, it becomes a tragic tale of a wife scorned.
Tomo can no longer stomach her husband's behavior.
This was an fascinating perspective on the intertwined lives of several women in one household in the early Meiji period. Focusing on a wife/mother, two concubines, servants, daughter we see that Enchi weaves a tale that quiet powerfully reflects the women and their roles in a patriarchal society -- which were quiet defined and constrained. At times appalling to the modern reader, one has to take into consideration the fact that this is a novel reflecting a time past but also leads you to wonder what vestiges of these social constructs remain in current Japanese society.
It's a cold, austere sadness..this book doesn't strive to move readers to tears, it just makes them feel the same 闷 as Tomo.It's been ingrained into Tomo to suppress her feelings, but at the same time, the text is so richly inundated with emotion (mostly a quiet, I would call it "damp" sadness).
Once again, the Japanese literature hits me like a train, I am still not completely used to their style, I enjoy it, but I can perceive the quite big differences between them and the books I have previously read from western writers.In this same note, I will point out that the style of writing and structuring the tale reminds me of the authoress of "The Doctor's Wife", Sawako Ariyoshi.
Especialmente esa dignidad tan marcadamente japonesa del personaje femenino principal resulta una baza fundamental en el libro.
Pero no olvidemos que el contexto histórico afecta por igual a toda una sociedad, y aunque de otro modo, también los hombres se encuentran sometidos y esclavizados en una época que apenas deja margen de maniobra.Del exterior de esas casas y de esos jardines que a veces son como jaulas doradas, tan bellas, tan útiles para la instrospección y para sentir, pero no para la exploración ni para la expresión de lo sentido, se atisban a lo largo de los años, leves pero apreciables cambios que son un soplo de brisa anunciando una nueva era.
1 May 2015
Excellent.
If you want to read some expertly crafted character development though, this books does the job & then some.Tomo is the wife of a high ranking government official.
But as time passes Tomo's feelings change, although she can't understand how to express it until it's too late.Like I said, the book is a character study mostly of Tomo, and to a smaller extant of the three mistresses that her husband sleeps with.
Later I read the book was similar to Enchi's relationship with her husband, so that intense level of complexity makes a lot more sense now that I know where it comes from.
Този път извървява Томо – героинята на романа „Onnazaka” („The Waiting Years” в английския превод, „Пологий склон”/”Цитадель” в руските преводи).Фумико Енчи е дъщеря на големия японски филолог Казутоши Уеда.
В душата на Томо ври и кипи – тя едва е навършила 30, с 12 години е по-млада от съпруга си, при това изпитва към него истинска любов.
Но Томо е възпитана да вярва, че е длъжна да подчини целия си живот в служба на семейството, на съпруга.
Това е началото на пътя – за Суга, но най-вече за Томо.
A book about a Japanese woman and her husband's mistresses/concubines, and how everybody in this complicated household gets along, and why patriarchy sucks.I am not rating this book, or really reviewing it, because I was not able to fully appreciate it, but also don't think that was the author's fault.
The book seemed perhaps over-translated--into workmanlike, idiomatic English that doesn't give much sense of what the original prose was like.- And this last one is entirely my fault--I knew this story would be understated but read through it fairly quickly, and maybe to fully appreciate it you need to read slowly and stop and think often about what's going on.As is, only the ending really hit home for me.
Such a sad, poignant story. It's not just Tomo, the obedient and hard-done-by wife who inspires me with sorrow, but also Suga, and to a lesser extent virtually every female character in the book, who has no other choice than to be married or sold off in the patriarchal society of Meiji and Taisho Japan.
I just finished this book and my mind was so stunned by the last few pages that I hardly know what to write here. Enchi's writing softly lulls you into a state of unsuspecting admiration before striking out at you with sudden viciousness. A number of times I would be reading this book when a sentence would strike me like a thunderclap and make me put down the book in a daze. All of the reviews of this book seem to focus on the subject matter, which is certainly interesting, but they don't give enough credit to the incredible writing.
El marido de Tomo, Shirakawa, sabe muy bien que su mujer tiene una muy buena educación y que le va a satisfacer en todo lo que le pida.
La autora le da fuerza al personaje femenino, y en ciertos momentos, refleja que el hombre no podría salir adelante sin esta mujer a su lado.
Uno de los aspectos que ayudan mucho en la creación de esta atmósfera, son los diálogos, unos diálogos muy bien creados que van picando la curiosidad del lector.
En las novelas de Enchi hasta el mínimo detalle tiene muchísima importancia.Aunque solamente he leído dos novelas de la autora, considero que la conozco bastante bien, conozco ese lado retorcido que tiene.
Onnazaka è il nome del sentiero, o strada secondaria, che conduce al tempio.Il sentiero dell'ombra è riservato alle donne perchè più agevole da percorrere, ma soprattutto perchè nascosto, solo agli uomini è consentito affrontare la ripida scalinata principale.Tomo Shirakawa è la moglie di Yukitomo, un funzionario di governo discendente da una famiglia samuraica.Lei ben conosce questo sentiero che percorre ormai da tempo e che ha imparato ad accettare con la dovuta remissione.Essere donna e moglie di un uomo importante è sinonimo di accettazione e sopportazione.
Uno fra i principali doveri di una moglie è quello di assicurarsi la felicità del marito, è per questo che sceglie personalmente la sua concubina, dover ammettere di non essere più interessante ai suoi occhi sarebbe una sconfitta, meglio gestire la situazione e ingaggiare Suga come "cameriera personale del padrone".
Povestea o are in centrul ei pe Tomo, tanara sotie a unui demnitar japonez care e trimisa in Tokyo cu o misiune: sa-i gaseasca lui Yukitomo o metresa tanara si frumoasa, care sa-i fie acestuia pe plac.In Japonia secolului 19 aceste ordine nu se discuta si in timp ce femeia trebuie sa ii fie fidela sotului ei, acestuia i se permite sa calce stramb chiar si in vazul lumii.
Хотя в книге много женских персонажей, главная героиня все-таки она.Когда Томо впервые появляется на страницах книги, ей около тридцати лет и она ищет наложницу для своего мужа, а заканчивается книга ее смертью в пожилом возрасте.В начале книги Томо по просьбе мужа покупает для него юную Сугэ за 500 иен - во столько разорившаяся семья оценила свою пятнадцатилетнюю красавицу-дочь.
А вот Томо деваться некуда, она не могла покинуть свой пост, из чувства тянула на себе все тяготы и все омерзительные секреты дома на пологом склоне.Книга читается легко, мне очень понравилась, обязательно когда-нибудь еще что-нибудь почитаю из творчества Фумико Энти
The book was pretty good but I felt the characters were a bit underdeveloped. It gives some pretty good insight into Japanese women's thoughts from about 1850-1890, but there are several different characters that they only allow you to see their surface thoughts. A good introduction to the confucious household structure and thought process differences between men and women. However, I think a reader would need a bit of a background of this knowledge to recognize that. I recommend it!
Винаги чета с изумление и трепет за онези времена от Японската история, когато, както е написано в книгата, за мъжете основно е било важно да се държат достойно в обществото и работата си, а за жените - в дома и семейството си.
Макар книгата да е простичко написана, без излишни украси, не оставаш безчувствен към съдбите на поколенията жени от рода Ширакава.
Не успях да не се разбунтувам срещу моралните норми и догми, които поставят тези жени в ситуации без избор за свобода.
