https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92956.The_Memory_of_Earth
This creates a setting that looks in many ways, like ancient rome, the renaissance, or perhaps the Old Testament, but allows for science fictional high-technology elements as well.
The main plot concerns the Oversoul becoming weak, losing it's influence over humanity, allowing people to think of once forbidden technologies and begin to implement them.
Apparently, this story is an exact retelling of the Book of Mormon, to the point where some character's names are only a few letters off.
The implications of the culture Card creates, the unique setting, and the consequences of having faith in a man-made machine are, according to plot summaries of the works, not explored at all.
I haven't set aside a shelf titled "science-fantasy" but now and then there are books that should be called that.
I found the book's opening interesting and was drawn into the story.
Aside from that the story itself is an interesting one and I think many will like it.There is something I feel bound to mention here.
Still if you're not familiar with it I doubt you'll even notice it's there and you'll read this as just a "science fantasy" with some odd plot points.In the end I give this a lukewarm 3 stars.
I found much of it interesting, a lot of it slow and almost boring and some of it annoying.
-------------------------------------I added a "Science-Fantasy" shelf.
I'm not an Orson Scott Card hater and though I despise many of his politcal views I am a fan of a lot of his work, especially the Ender Game series which think is terrific. This one, I just didn't like. It wasn't horrible, but it is certainly nowhere near as good as the Ender series. Plus, all of the things that I don't like about Card (e.g., politics and moralizing) seemed to be front and center in this story. It was just too much and I didn't enjoy reading it.
And instead of God leading the way, it's the Oversoul, a supercomputer that watches over humanity on the planet Harmony over the past forty million years.At first I thought this was pretty cool and a neat idea, but then as the story progressed, I came to realize that I knew exactly how the book was going to progress.
This book tells the story about Nafai and his brothers.
It chooses Nafai's family for reasons that become more apparent in the later books.
I liked this whole sci-fi series. I've heard that it has a lot of Mormon themes in it (the author is Mormon or lapsed Mormon or something like that) but to be honest, I didn't notice it at the time I was reading it and it didn't interfere with my enjoyment. Dramatic stories, fun characters, big mysterious computers...
An interesting story premise, and a well-written narrative, though only the start of what will apparently be a very long tale. Unfortunately, I found all the major characters so obnoxious (and frequently stupid) that I have no interest in reading the rest of their story.
Being very familiar with the story that it is based on (the first few chapters of the Book of Mormon), I knew what to expect every time.
I would rather that, instead of simply being a retelling of parts of the Book of Mormon in a science-fiction setting, it took some main themes from the original story and incorporated them into a new story.Despite that setback, I liked this book a lot and would have other people read it, and will be looking for its sequels next time I'm in a bookstore that has a higher likelihood of carrying more of Orson Scott Card's books that just his most famous ones.
It has a strange culture, one that mixes old school tech--like horse-back riding and actually walking from place to place and swords and arrows--with cool new tech--clearly illustrated by the Oversoul's mental blocking and Issib's flotation devices.Card draws up a fascinating group of people, throws them into a plan made by God (i.e., the Oversoul), and then proceeds to wreak merry havoc with their lives.
It's not perfect, just like his characters, but that's where a lot of the joy comes from.
This series had good potential, and I liked this novel, but once the series started getting "preachy" I dropped it like a hot potato.
Card is a perfectly decent writer, though his style is pretty straightforward and lacking much flourish, but he let's his personal beliefs creep into most of his works.
If it were just a couple of his novels that were thinly veiled Mormon mythologies it would be fine, but a large percentage of his later work is very colored by his religious beliefs.
It's lazy scifi and lazy religious allegory to me.
If I don't think about Card's preachiness then I like this novel (solid 3 stars.)
(Okay, the biggest problem might've been that whoever edited this book didn't feel comfortable telling Orson Scott Card that big chunks needed to be rewritten or scrapped, but I can't be too hard on our hypothetical editor: this book came out in 92, right when Card was big.) Sure, he's fine when telling us about his world - this is a book about a matriarchy, a city ruled by women, a city where women hold power, and no man can spend even one night inside the city's walls if he doesn't spend that night in a woman's house.
It has a lot to be desired & even though it is the first in a series, its main flaw is failing to make the reader want to continue--to take the journey through so many other books to reach a conclusion.
To emphasize my point: The realization by certain people on the planet Harmony that Earth is something to be sought out again makes me think of the Mormons pilgrimage to their land of Zion.
I believe he intended to make a great series but there's a reason why certain stories should remain at the bottom of a desk drawer--a reason why they were put there in the first place.
I eagerly devoured his short stories, and read his series with high anticipation..
suddenly the book got preachy, complete with bible quotes and a cast of characters so moralizing that I was barely able to stomach them.
I don't like the characters.
On to something else!(Just a note: I'm not LDS, so any correlations between The Book of Mormon and this are entirely lost on me.
I noticed other reviewers who took offense to this as a retelling as that story, but that did not factor into my own read.
I disliked this book entirely based on my own preferences.)
Of course I had heard of him and seen his books all over, but he was just one of those authors I never quite got around to reading.
Given that I was a newcomer to Card's work, I was keeping an open mind and had no idea what to expect except that he's a prolific author so his stuff must be good, right?
The thing is, the book isn't bad, it's just not good.
Sounds good, right?Except the book really lacks two things: (1) execution and (2) complexity.
For now, though, Card fades to the background on my reading list.This review at http://www.scottmarlowe.com/post/Book...
The re-telling of the Book of Mormon as science fiction works to create a sense of familiarity, which anyone who knows the Old Testament (let alone the Book of Mormon) will feel as they read the book.
The most interesting aspect of this book for me, wasn't the story or the characters, but musing throughout on archetypal story-lines and the moral questions raised and answered by scripture/fiction.
Probably the most jarring aspect of the book was the modern sense of morality that was imposed on a clearly tribal and backwards community.
This had shades of Asimov's Foundation series, mainly the parts that I liked without the parts I didn't. I felt connected to characters and sucked in to the interesting culture, loved the bits about how there were archaic sayings that had lost meaning and technology that had been lost this far out into humanity's future. Also getting a bit of a sense of the Biblical story of Joseph and his visions and having brothers who resent him. Definitely looking forward to reading more and have not felt let down by any Card book yet.
Orson Scott Card is a very creative science fiction and fantasy writer! This book (series) is a great look into the philosophy of life on other planets and the possibility of higher intelligences. The last books in the series introduce new characters that are not a likeable as the earlier books and the storyline suffers because of it.
This was the first Orson Scott Card novel I read and I liked it a lot. If I remember correctly I went through the five books in this saga (Homecoming Saga) in about two weeks. Several years later I found out that the series is loosely based on the Book of Mormon (Orson Scott Card is mormon). Go figure.
The story was a little hard to get into in the beginning, maybe since the names are very strange. The biblical parallels are obvious, yet they pull the reader deeper into the story.
More or less by chance I've been reading a lot by Orson Scott Card recently--probably because each title I've picked up seems different enough from the others to make me curious about the author's range.
It had been colonized by survivors from Earth, who'd established a supercomputer, called the Oversoul, to monitor/direct their activities to the extent that their descendants would never again resort to war.
Speaking directly to Nafai, the main character, the Oversoul says, "I would help the good people of Basilica.
(I might read the next volume, but at the moment feel more inclined to go back to Card's Old Testament dramatizations, like 
-Utilitarian ethics: Is it better to do an evil thing to stop an even more evil thing from happening?-Is it true that some (most) people love control so much that they are constantly, mostly unconsciously, trying to tear others down?Cons: although the awesome characters and interesting issues kept me turning the pages (or keeping my audiobook playing for hours at a time at least), this wasn't an edge-of-your-seat, can't-wait-to-get-back-to it kind of book.
How can the Oversoul's plans be well-served, if all its followers are the kind of weak-souled people who are willing to obey the Oversoul without understanding?
The key to the "Harmony" world, which was settled 40 million years ago, is the presence of the "Oversoul," an orbiting computer with a network of satellites and the ability to communicate telepathically - to one extent or another - with all of the humans on the planet (who were apparently slightly genetically engineered for receptivity to this communication.) The purpose of the Oversoul is not to keep everyone happy and content, "Matrix" or "Worthington Saga" style, but to keep the more dangerous incarnations of human technology from ever developing so that violence will be limited to pre-industrial levels.
For example, here's how Card approaches the idea of baptism:"See?" she said.
"You're forgetting already how it really was." "No I'm not," he said.
He wanted to call out to her and say, You were right, I was forgetting how it really was, I was remembering it through common ordinary eyes, I was remembering it as the boy I was before, but now I remember that it wasn't me being weak or me being naked, or anything else that I should be ashamed of.
Decent sci-fi lacking some impact...: Orson Scott Card knows how to tell a story.
Card develops the characters nicely and the story never gets boring - it's an easy and enjoyable read.
The main character is a 14 year old boy destined to help this computer in returning humankind to Earth - a tough task considering the people on planet Harmony don't even know how to build airplanes.The book certainly makes me want to read the sequels.
But still, it failed to really overwhelm me: The main characters are too often lead by the (no longer) allmighty computer and therefore, they never seem to be in real danger, though Card succeeds in giving at least the feeling of danger.
I debated giving this 2-stars because I generally reserve 1-star for things I really hated, but the problem is, I did not really like this novel at all.
I am not indifferent or apathetic to it, but it isn't quite hate.
But certainly would never recommend it to anyone.
Having read a number of books by Card over the years and liking most of them, I find myself disabused of the notion that I want to read all of his books from the last two [the other being _Hart's Hope_] I have read.
I certainly shall not be pursuing this series any further.
Having read all of the Shadow books currently published, the Enders Saga, and the Formic War novels I was already a huge Card fan.
That being said, this novel felt a tad “preachy” to me, and dragged in certain spots as much as an Orson Scott Card book can.
So, if you’re just looking for more Orson Scott Card books to get you through the day, this novel (and I’m hoping this series) is worth the read.
If you’re looking for more Enders Game action or Ender’s Shadow enjoyment, you might want to find another book.
Mankind destroyed Earth 40 million years ago, and people settled on an earth-like planet.
They set up an "Oversoul" that prevents people from militarizing, so as to prevent destruction of their adopted planet.
The only problem is, the Oversoul is starting to wear down.The characters are all well-developed, and much of the story hinges on the relationships between them.
Many people view the Oversoul like a god, one that is based on mythology, not technology.
Much of the book contains religious themes, and many of the actions of the characters are reminiscent of biblical stories.
I picked up this book from the library not knowing anything about it.
About a third of the way through, I was thinking, gosh, this story is familiar - and realized it is a retelling with a sci-fi twist of part of 1 Nephi in the Book of Mormon.
I liked it and I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series to see how Card handles the rest of the history, and to what extent he takes it.I am re-reading 1 Nephi now, with a new perspective.
Four brother and hate each other for some unexplained and non-existant reason bicker non-stop while trying to to carry out the dictates of a robot that was built to protect humanity from it's evil and war like side.
The robot should have started by choosing characters that did not fight with each other non-stop like spoiled 5 year olds.
This story has a folk tale like feel to it as well which really makes it suck, because sci-fi and folk tale just don't work for me at all.
The setup for this book sounded so interesting, but it so did not live up to my expectations.
All the way through, I kept thinking that it sounded like some bible story rewritten as sci-fi.
I just learned from other reviewers that this is a kind of retelling from the book of Mormon.
It has the usual thoughtful dialogue I've come to expect in an Orson Scott Card novel, along with some of his other more common elements: protagonist coming of age, crappy siblings, lots of philosophical musings.But the entire thing felt rather forced, and definitely does not stand up to some of Card's other works.
A different premise in that our future descendants inhabit another planet due to our poor mismanaging of this one. A computer has been setup to guide the people to avoid the same path on this one. Some short but detailed descriptions of physical relationships. Very little language. The story is engaging those some of the character interactions seem a little weak. The main plot moves by the use of dreams from the computer to the people. While at times a handicap, it works. Definitely seems to raise the issue of divine intervention and what role man can play.
