https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32669.Clear_and_Present_Danger
However, if you were to debate that his strongest point is his research and application of military technical details within his books, I would concede.
I can see how military buffs, special ops fanatics, and "gun nuts" would go gah-gah over a book like this.
But I guess if reading a Clancy novel satisfies the sort of person that gets off on that shit and it helps them get it out of their system, well then I'm glad these books exist.
Every time Clancy cuts to Jack the book bogs right down into a full-on snorefest.
While Han Solo did pull off quite a few of Clancy's movies with great flair back in the early 90s, Clear and Present Danger notwithstanding, the book is still better.
Mostly because it portrays Clark and Chavez in a more profound, emotional light than they are shown onscreen.
Don't expect tears or any soulwrenching chapters, though.Now, can we limerick Clancy?
It's Rule 34d of the Internet.When Chavez and Clark to Bogota flewThe ire of drug lords they drewWith the company's checkRyan saved their neckAnd so they became a damn good crewRegardsomely yours,Igor
A Jack Ryan in which we see quite little of Jack Ryan. It's about the US war on Colombian drugs and it's quite long. And honestly, that's about all I can remember about this particular one. Because this was one that I did not re-read and I'm guessing that also says something. As a recommendation to anyone who hasn't and wants to experience the Jack Ryan series, I'd say stop at book 8. For the non-completist I would say read The Hunt for Red October, The Cardinal of the Kremlin & The Sum of All Fears.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Excellent Tom Clancy novel in which Jack Ryan and the Mr. Clark take on the Columbian drug cartels. This was a terrific read from beginning to end and confirmed by opinion of Tom Clancy as a master of the political thriller.
MERRY CHRISTMAS TO ME I FINISHED IT.Next time, someone tell me to just watch the movie.For the Pop Sugar Challenge, this was "a book you started but never finished."
This is the last Tom Clancy novel I absolutely loved.
With this one, I felt like he was at peak performance, generating a focused, plausible storyline that could stand on its own, rather than just being an installment in an increasingly outlandish saga.
Clear and Present Danger is a grand techno-thriller, and a fine outing for Jack Ryan, Clancy’s all-American CIA analyst turned reluctant field operative.
The story is lengthy, but moves at a brisk pace.
As I said above, this was the last Clancy novel I completely enjoyed.
After this one, he felt to me like he started trying to outdo himself.
I read this book after I saw the movie with Harrison Ford.The President of the United States finds himself between a rock and a hard place.
With the help of his security advisor, they devise a plan of using armed troops to take on the cartels in the heart of South American jungles.
With American troops blowing up secret cartel sites in the jungle, people getting killed in the streets, and the President screaming for an end to this crisis, Jack finds himself in the crosshairs of the most dangerous situation imaginable.I was glad the movie followed the book.
Review to follow
It would also predict the fact corrupt (?) officials in the United States would ally with shady individuals to combat these drug lords while said individuals were taking over the drug trade themselves.The premise is the President of the United States (unnamed but implied to be George H.W. Bush) has decided to send U.S. Special Forces into Columbia to directly fight against the cartels.
At one point, Felix Cortez bluntly states America will never solve its drug problem because people want drugs so it's paying money against itself.The book feels a bit naive in the post-9/11 world as the President authorizing a military incursion into an allies' territory is treated as a shocking overexertion of his authority.
I wanted to really like this book because I've heard such good things about it.
Maybe my circles are cleaner than others, but I know that not everyone swears.
Some detail makes it feel real, but sometimes Mr. Clancy goes on for pages and pages of endless details, until it seems almost pointless.
Like many fantasy novels, he gives feasts of technical details when a small, conservative meal here and there would feel better.These two things ruin the story for me; especially the swearing.
I don't want my kids to be reading such things, so therefore I should be reading them; got to set an example, right.
Oh, I love this one! The movie too was fanfuckingtastic .
My father used to read Clancy's novels while commuting on the train from work in the 90s. I figured I'd check out Clancy's work because I saw that John Krasinski was taking up the mantle. Turns out, Amazon's new series is not based on the books at all? So I read this potboiler for nothing, other than the self-imposed reminder of how military life wasn't a good fit.Also, Jack Ryan is barely in this book.
Εξαιρετικά λεπτομερείς περιγραφές σε εξοπλισμό και μιλιταριστικά techincalities. Αν καταφέρει κάποιος να ξεπεράσει με στωικότητα τις σελίδες αυτές αν δεν το ενδιαφέρουν όπως εμένα και καταφέρει να ξεχωρίσει ονόματα και θέσεις, ποιος διευθυντής, υποδιευθυντής, σε CIA, FBΙ και δε θυμάμαι καν πού αλλού μένει ένα εξαιρετικό θρίλερ δράσης, υπόγειας ίντριγκας, με εξιλεωτικό τέλος. Η ταινία που την είδα κι αυτήν κόβει και αλλάζει πολλά πράγματα αλλά παραμένει στην ουσία.

Seven stars******* if I could. Exciting, big plot, some poetic justice due and received. A big plot where, the author knows everyone-they all have 'bios.' Many heroes and villains, John Clark being one of the main good guys, and my favorite, he walks the talk. The nice thing about 'discovering' Tom Clancy is his huge body of work, long involved novels. Looking forward to the next one. This is a favorite
Clear and Present Danger the novel blows away C&PD the movie just like a Pave Low lll helicopter firing miniguns on bad guys (scene from the book).
Having left the women and children at home (sigh of relief), a now mature and seasoned Jack Ryan choppers into danger with my new favorite character, Mr. Clark, to save Americans from clear and present dangers.
I am thankful for the Jack Ryans, (the Jack Bauers…anticipating the return of 24), and the John McCains of our Nation’s government and military.
And I am thankful that Tom Clancy has the intelligence (emphasis on a two-fold meaning here) to spell it all out for us.
Another good Clancy read, I would probably put this one right up there with Hunt for Red October, another page turner.
I own the movie Clear and Present Danger which once again stars Harrison Ford as Ryan, and Willem Dafoe portrays John Clark.
The movie was good but once again the book is better.
This book is about the US government going to war against the Columbian drug cartels.
Clancy's always very descriptive in his books and he always makes the story very realistic.
I always tell myself that I need to be in the mood to read a Clancy book because I gotta have my mind sharp.
I love this book. It was full of Clancy's trademark political and military knowledge. He certainly researched his books very well. I rated 4 stars because it was so steeped in tech language and jargon that it literally took me six months to read it. This one was a great thriller, though. Check it out!
Colombian drug lords, tired of being harassed by US law enforcement agents, have assassinated the American Ambassador and the visiting head of the FBI. Their message is clear: leave us alone. But they have pushed too far.
This has to be among the Clancy classics. I recommend this to any military or political buff. Clancy definitely rocks the house with this one.
I could have put it with all of the sweaters I have never received, and the ties I don’t get, but I thought, (internal complex reasoning), Jon, you write sci-fi thrillers with secret agents, armies, presidents, shit blowing up, assassinations, conspiracies, maybe you ought to read a master of the thriller genre?
I learned a lot reading this thing.
Writing thrillers is something I think I can do, but this serves as a reminder that making fun of a genre is a lot easier than achieving something in it, much less becoming a master.
Description: Colombian drug lords, bored with Uncle Sam's hectoring, assassinate the head of the FBI.
The message is clear: Bug off!
At what point do these druggies threaten national security?
When can a nation act against its enemies?
These are questions Jack Ryan must answer because someone has quietly stepped over the line.
Does anyone know who the real enemy is?
Which lines have been crossed?
Ryan and his "dark side", a shadowy field officer known only as Mr. Clark, are charged with finding out.
They expect danger from without...
But the danger from within may be the greatest of all.Read by: J.
It did get bit a slow in a few places, but overall I thought it was a pretty fast paced political thriller with a good amount of action mixed in.This is listed as a Jack Ryan book (and the movie focuses almost entirely on him if I recall correctly) but a large part of this book also focuses on Domingo Chavez and John Clark.
I probably enjoyed following Domingo far more both John and Jack.I still don't like Jack Ryan too much as a character, but he's much more likeable in this book than the previous ones.
This book is part of the Jack Ryan series but it can be read as a stand alone.
This book was so detail oriented that I thought I was reading a non-fiction novel instead of a fiction one.
This novel also explores how this storyline affects different areas of our government and their role in an action like this.There were two reasons why I did not give this five stars.
The first was how this was a Jack Ryan novel.
I am not the person who knows the differences between guns or military ways.
Unfortunately, I forgot how mindless it really is.Clancy's reputation, as the blurb on any of his novels will tell you, is for writing "techno-thrillers".
I guess it's true that there is a degree of military technology that he seems to have a good handle on, but the man really can't write a pleasing sentence to save his life, his characters don't have depth, and his understanding of politics is comically infantile.
Clancy's military fetishism quickly grows tiresome, since it's all there really is to his books.
Clear and Present Danger has aged quite badly, with the charcters spouting nonsense about wanting to "waste some druggies" all the time.
It was my first time reading a Tom Clancy book.
The second half of the book definitely flowed better, and it became the kind of story I didn't want to put down.
If I remember right, it was about the time Clark was introduced and became a main player in the plot.
Overall a good read.One amusing bit of excessive detail I remember was right near the end.
The author is kind of wrapping up all the plot points, and gives one paragraph of detail to a character that really only played a minor role in the first place.
this is the second Tom Clancy book I read this year.
but perhaps I've learned something important about my reading habits this year.
The Clancy books are very easy to read -- and I mean that in a charitable way, not in a belittling way.
enter Tom Clancy.
that said, there have been plenty of great predictable plots written that have turned out well.so in sum, for the second time this year I have enjoyed Tom Clancy.
perhaps it has little artistic value, but I am energized to read again.
the book did its job.
I don't recall a lot about the movie aside from some vehicles blowing up and William Dafoe walking across the screen in a gloss-over of the actions John Clark, so I didn't have a lot of competing ideas in my head for how the story should look.It's an entertaining story that does make you think somewhat about legal vs.
illegal operations and perhaps what the right course of action would be given the story's circumstances (drugs from South America coupled with an assination of a governement official).What's best about the story is the awesomeness of Jack Ryan (CIA intelligence), John Clark (CIA operations, former SEAL), and Ding Chavez (Army).
Great, thick book.
It got off to a very slow start - I'm sure lots of folks will like that slow, plodding march of soldiers through Latin American jungles.
The book covers the war on drugs with a bit (not a lot) more optimism than history has offered.
I have no idea what it's like to be in combat, but the battles at the end, and the description of America's finest dying for their country because idiots put them in harm's way, is quite powerful.
If you've never read Tom Clancy, this could be a difficult book to get into, as it was in my case.
however, once past trying to remember what person fit with what name it became the greatest book i've read in my entire life.
from the ratings, you know it's a good book if there is no middle ground.
people either love or hate the book, and you just have to take the chance that you might hate the book or you might miss out on one of the best thrillers in existence.
If you have never read Clancy, I suggest this one.
You don't know what you're missing!!
