https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20739.Asylums
The point is that both prisons and English public schools are examples of total institutions and these are precisely what Goffman is looking at here.I really like Goffman – he has the keenest of eyes for little paradoxes and quirks.
But Goffman is really interested in the relationships that occur between people, particularly people with different roles in these places.The first essay is concerned with being inducted into a total institution and there is a lot of very interesting things said about the physical and mental ‘stripping’ that occurs when one enters such an institution.
should be required reading for all schoolteachers.four long essays stemming from a year (1955-56) Goffman spent observing the daily operation of a huge (7000 inmates!) mental hospital.
Far too much time spent on bland generalities and references to outside sources (monasteries, convents, boot camp, prison, boarding school, all considered "total institutions") and far too little mention of WHAT HE SAW AND HEARD IN THE MENTAL HOSPITAL.but the third essay is the money essay.
this is then extended to the modern practice of medicine, and further to the treatment of mental patients.
I read about this book in David Orland's, Prisons: Houses of Darkness, where Orland often referred to Goffman's work in this book.
I was not disappointed.Goffman uses a mixture of field observation and references to literature to describe and critisize the theory and practice of the "Total Institution".
After reading this book, I saw aspects of "total" institutions in almost every institution I cared to think about: schools, churches, courts, etc.I think it is fair to say that "All institutions dream of being total institutions." Therefore, this book has application beyond the world of "strong" total institutions.
An astute set of essays on the ways people find to maintain a self within an institution whose purpose is to control a person's every activity. Full of glancing observations of the strange ways people seek status, or worry about losing it, for example this passage about a customer of a service business such as a repair shop: "The client thinks, 'Is this server really competent? Is he acting in my own interests? Is he overcharging? Is he discreet? Is he secretly contemptuous of me because of the state in which he finds my possession?'" Touché.
It was easier to read this book if I kept reminding myself that it was written in the 1950's.
Psychiatric hospitals are nothing like this nowadays.
But I appreciate they used to be different.
Anyhow, I don't like that Goffman made some jabs at psychiatric nurses, implying that they are the nurses who didn't know how to draw blood (apparently, this is all that nurses do...?) and so couldn't get a job anywhere else.
I think this guy needs to spend a day as a psychiatric nurse and see if he changes his mind at all.
And, by the way, I CAN draw blood.
Read for school. I especially found the essay concerning the life inside prisons to be of interest, although some things certainly were hard to read (especially concerning shaming and degrading actions). Some parts of the book are definitely outdated but a lot of the general points are still relevant.
This was assigned for a college course called "Alienation and Mental Illness". An interesting look at how the conditions and treatment of in patient psychiatric hospitals strip one of their sense of self to the extent that the appearance of illness is greatly enhanced.
Since the articles relate to prisons as well as mental hospitals, and since I have worked in both, my curiosity brought me to read this book.
Reading it was a labor as it was written from a sociological perspective, which for me is cumbersome reading, to say the least.However, I believe I would have found the sections on the "underlife" of a public institution, helpful in preparing to work in a prison.
Perhaps the entire book would have been useful to prepare myself for my nursing school psychiatric placement (1958) in Cook County Hospital (Chicago),receiving center for mental patients.
One of the seminal texts of the area where Goffman describes and analyses the 'total institution' such as asylums, but which also may include prisons, schools, arms camps or POW camps. If you are a prisons buff reading this in conjunction with Sykes is a useful endeavour for a rounded explanation of the topic.
Very readable, very interesting. One of the few uni books I'd recommend reading outside having too
dated like a motherfucker. however, the first essay still holds weight well enough where it comes to describing and denoting goffman's view of 'total institutions.'
After exploring the horrific, demoralizing, and mortifying conditions in which inmates are kept, why would anyone voluntarily sign up for this as in the religious and military institutions?Goffman explains that in religious institutions, it is “necessary” to break down one’s own will in order to get closer to a higher power.
Sometimes safety remains a concern, so in those situations, the best scenario would be to train the individual to function to the best of his or her abilities within the institution.Goffman’s analysis was, I’m sure, crucial during its time for drawing awareness to the horrific conditions that were often present in a variety of social institutions.
They each can stand alone and say a lot about the mental illness system and psychiatry.Goffman is great.
After I read Stigma, I wanted to read more Goffman.Asylums is a book of Essays based upon Goffman's sociological work in total institutions, particularly mental hospitals.
From reading Goffman and my own experience in institutions and facilities, I can see how not a whole lot has changed since he did his work in the 1950's.
The rights protections for inmates in mental hospitals is better, but the relations with staff and the structure and function of the institution are basically the same.
Goffmann sets out to do a Micro-interactive analysis of what he describes as one of the primary "total institutions" of modern times; the Asylum.
A pleasant read, especially the last chapter on the different, non-converging, interests that has been developed between the patient on the one side, and the therapists on the other.
Its this last piece that in true challenges the psychiatric system: in any form it might take, total or lesser, the question that should be attached to any analysis that finds power disperances between patient and therapists should always ask; is it in the therapists interests to do what we could have expected the patient would have wished?
Considered a seminal work on the subject and an influence in the deinstitutionalization of America’s mentally ill.The first ‘essay’ of the four that make up the book was the hardest to get through, because the author tries to define ‘total institutions’ as a class, using a wide range of examples from mental hospitals to concentration camps and prisons and monestaries and naval vessels.
The other three essays deal almost exclusively with mental hospitals and felt stronger for it, particularly when the author drew on his own experience in one particular state hospital.Wow, man.
People hospitalized for homosexuality!
As an illness!
I was just so surprised that in the 1960s, monastery could be treated more or less as parallels to institutions such as mental hospitals and even prisons as Goffman did not have trouble of quoting biographical accounts of monks/nuns and prisoners simultaneously.
Were the monks and nuns the same sort of "inmate" as the "patients" he discussed at length (well, of course, the sort of long-term psychiatric hospital probably is less common today)?
If he said for the medical inmates, there was an assumption of inferior humanity, did the situation of monastery share the same organizational assumption?
I read this for a history class while in college.
The 12 students receiving the scholarship were not allowed to attend any social events outside the group and were more or less prevented from interfacing with society outside the "program".
As far as I could see there was no relevance between this book and the history we were studying.
It's possible that the professor suggest I (and I alone) report on this book to help me to gain insight to cultish groups.
Schools could be considered cultish in that there is a tendency to try to help students learn by redirecting how they think and learn.
Here Goffman defines the concept of a "total institution" -- a place where all activities are done in the same place, carried out around others, tightly scheduled, and done according to a plan. The places can be as distinct as nursing homes, elite boarding schools, and asylums. The major players are the inmates and the staff. He argues that the self is take from the individual in a total institution. The inmates use subversive behavior, situational withdrawal, colonization, and conversion to cope with their circumstances.
This is the most useful book that I read during my entire university education! Reading this book helped me see everyday institutional interactions in a whole new way and helped me understand power and authority in modern society. Celia Haig Brown referenced this book when writing "Resistance and Renewal: Surviving the Indian Residential School."I think that this book would be useful for anyone who want to understand social control, oppression, and power in society.
The description of the asylum as an institution is dated-- we don't call them asylums much nowadays, though I did hear 'nuthouse' yesterday. Still, the connections that Goffman makes between the way life is organized in the mental institution and the way that the patients react to this is really eye-opening. If you've been a patient, work in such a place, or are a social scientist interested in the way institutions affect their members, this will be worthwhile.
Probably the most insightful thing I've read on mental hospitals. Based on extensive participant observation at a mental hospital in Washington, D.C., Goffman tries to describe the 'moral career' of the mental patient, which articulates the process all patients experience, often painfully, as their old "self" is problematized and then systematically stripped away.
This book is an honest and starteling look at what its like for the individuals that live in a totally controlled environment. It shows the similarities between groups of people one would never compare such as mental patients and boarding school students and discusses the effects of a total institution on their psyche.
Good description of what goes on in the asylum, and makes the necessary claim that "the asylum" is "the total institution" (like the prison, boarding school, cloister). Good description of HOW these institutions exist. But WHY do they exist? (A much more important question.) He should have waited a year and read Foucault.
A very useful little book, if somewhat dated (especially in terminology). The section on secondary adjustments to life in total institutions is particularly interesting in that it forces room for the voices and actions of inmates to be read as autonomous rather than simply the reactions of objects put into a particular type of machine.
A very important book. It critically examines how the labels we give to people can result in self fulfilling prophecies. The book is especially pertinent when it comes to the treatment of people from marginalized groups such as people from lower socioeconomic classes, racial/ethnic minorities, people who have been diagnosed with mental illnesses and others who are considered to be "deviant".
This is a scholarly work. Some sections are very upsetting.
I read this in 1979 and I have no memory of it but I must have enjoyed it because i went on to read The Presentation of the Self in Everyday Life a year later.
I hate reactionary field observation sociology with a passion, but this is a handy book to read just in case you end up in one of these places.
It's amazing how what he's written about continues to be relevant to this very day.
Interesting, but hard to read.
