https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/546644.The_Fifth_Child
الشعور القوي الذي غمرني هوالتعجب من نيل دوريس ليسينج نوبلفالرواية أقل من عاديةولم أشعر معها بأي ابداع تقريباليست سيئة نعموربما للمؤلفة كتب أهم ولكنني لست متحفزة للقراءة لها مجدداسيطر علي شعور ربما يبدو فكاهياشعرتُ بأنني طوال القراءة أجلس أمام شاشة تلفازوأشاهد فيلما تليفزيونيا مملا قليلا وقديموفيه الترجمة تظهر بالبنط العريض جدا كما كان الحال في افلام التسعيناتباختصار لا أرشحها لأحد
These wars did arise, and destroyed a beautiful household with all the loving children.''This “sense of disaster” becomes Ben, the main character of this urban gothic story that shows not only how we get used to our misfortunes but how we even protect and nourish them.I remember Freud said somewhere that society is not comfortable with happy families, because, being strongly attached to one another, they tend to cut themselves off from others.
That’s why civilisation imposes all sorts of taboos, laws, customs and other restrictions that ultimately separate the members of the family.Is Ben the embodiment of war and other evils society continuously pours over the individual?
Hey, ya know that ugly devil baby-in-arms in that one impressionable scene in "Passion of the Christ"? Yeah, well, he's here in the middle of this taut, mesmerizing novella, growing up and ripping his innocent family to shreds.Well... he says "hi."
Lessing here takes that kind of idea that there is human variation that we see around us and we are used to, but that there is also a degree of variation that we maybe know about like say the so called Elephant Man which is a little beyond our comfort zone and then if that can exist then why not something else, much nastier and stranger - in fact a troll or something very much like it.Reading this story again I noticed that it took a long time until the fifth, the troll child of the married couple came into the story, a third of the way - and then that as pregnancy - which as you might expect is unpleasantly trollish.Given the long slow build up of couple formation, dwelling acquisition, family breeding, I might be tempted to believe that Madame Lessing initially was minded to write something more conventional but then decided to move off at a tangent.
It was supposed to have started out with this great couple who had all these wonderful family ideals, until the fifth child came along who was really tough to take (and basically a commentary on society's reaction to such a different child).
Simply because their house was constantly filled with free-loaders, didn't imply to me that their family was so great.And when the fifth child came along, where was everyone?
This book is a horrible example of family.The other main thing that bothered me was the parents conclusion toward the end of the book that their fifth child's nature was due to some sort of latent paleolithic genes.
They constantly thought of their child as not human.
It's cold as the clinical shit baby Ben is covered in when Harriet lays her brooding (the egg laying definition) on him.
Harriet may be a woman too weak to be good enough for a child like Ben. The other children may have felt unsafe in their own homes.
But I didn't know them any more than the passing story related third hand about a man in Fla who fucked his wife into fourteen kids (he would yell at her "Flossie!" for back room sex with a house full of people).
I don't get anything out of reading shit like that from strangers on the Internet either.
Ενα μικρο(σε εκταση) αριστουργημα για τα ψεματα που λεμε στον εαυτο μας προκειμενου να απαλλαγουμε απο τις ευθυνες μας , αλλα και για τον τρομακτικο εγωισμο των ανθρωπων που προτιμουν να φτασουν στα πιο ακραια σημεια συμπεριφορας προκειμενου να μην θολωσουν την εικονα της "οικογενειακης ευτυχιας" που εχουν φαντασιωθει..με θυμωσε, με στενοχωρησε, με προβληματισε οπως οφειλει να κανει καθε σημαντικο βιβλιο.
Sure, it’s a lot of work for a couple both 26 years old, but this is the life they dreamed off!Yet when Harriet gives birth to the fifth child, Ben, every happy dream disappears.
While her husband wants to lock Ben away, Harriet wants to keep him home…yet that decision might cause more harm than good.
This reminded me of Rosemary's Baby – not because Ben is the anti-Christ – but because both books feature mothers slowly losing control of their life thanks to a child.In both stories, this loss of control leads to a bitter ending, but in The Fifth Child it’s more heartbreaking, more tragic than terrifying.
به نظرم هریت و دیوید افرد کاملا بی مسئولیت و خوشگذرانی هستند که بار زندگیشونو به دوش دیگران میزارن و توقع کمک از دیگران رو دارند. مشکل اونها اینه که وقتی همه چیز کامله احساس خوشبختی میکنن....سعی نویسنده این بود که وجهه ترسناک به کتاب بده ولی موفق نبود.البته شاید اگر فیلم کتاب ساخته بشه( اطلاع ندارم) شادید ترسناک باشه...
This was my introduction to the writing of Doris Lessing; I had high hopes for the book but was sorely disappointed.
The plot was ridiculous in content, though perhaps acceptable as a sort of "unmagical realism"; completely unrealistic and unbelievable, along with two dimensional characters suitable for allegory only.
If Ms Lessing intends to explore sociopathy and psychopathy, then she would do well to explore the inner life of the characters.
I will give Ms Lessing another shot with her famed The Golden Notebook, as perhaps this writing style is atypical for her.
"It's crazy," said Dorothy.
She was flushed with the hot tea and with all the things she was forcing herself not to say.
p. 34This is fascinating.Yes this is about a bad seed, the last child in an otherwise happy family.
But it also has a lot to do with perception and judgement, how the parents, Harriet and David, see themselves and how others see them and how they think others see them.
And how they see others, particularly their fifth child.
Not to mention Harriet's notions of how her last child sees himself, if at all.
" Η απόκτηση ενός παιδιού είναι λοταρία.
Ευτυχώς ή δυστυχώς δεν μπορούμε να διαλέξουμε τι θα βγάλει η λοταρία"Ξεκίνησα αυτό το βιβλίο αργά τη νύχτα και δεν μπορούσα να το αφήσω απ' τα χέρια κι απ τα μάτια μου, παζαρεύοντας με τον ύπνο ως τα ξημερώματα.
Ξεκίνησα το βιβλίο αυτό "για να νυστάξω" και μου εφυγε ολος ο υπνος και με γεμισε αγωνία και υπερένταση.
Ηταν αδυνατον να το αφήσω κάτω εως να διαβασω και την τελευταία του αράδα.
هذا هو أول عمل أقرأه لدوريس ليسنج:عمل اجتماعى رفيع يحكى ببساطه عن طفل (طفرة) فى وسط أسرته .يصور لنا العمل مدى المعاناة التى تعانيها جميع الأطراف من (الأب والأم ) وباقى أفراد الأسرة.رغم أن العمل عن المجتمع الإنجليزى إلا أنه يجوز عليه قياس باقى مجتمعات العالم.عمق نفسى واضح ودراية بمفاهييم التربيه المختلفه مع واقعيه فى تناول العمل فى المجمل عمل جيد .
اصلا نتونستم باهاش ارتباط برقرار کنم و دوستش داشته باشم.
Wow!This is the first Doris Lessing book I've read and she's a great writer. This is a true "horror" story...not in the classic sense, but in the real sense of a horrible situation that people must confront. It leaves the reader with the thought "what would you do if you found yourself in this situation?". Therefore it is a highly discussable book. Interesting characters, interesting plot, great writing. What more can a reader ask?Reread in April 2010 for Maze book discussion. Still thought it was quite good and it did provide for a great discussion. Interesting paring with "Frankenstein".
Review to come. The book took a while to heat up, but what a powerful, devastating ending.
وكنت فعليا فعليا علشان أنام بسبب الولدين باشرب نعناع لما أبقى زي البرميل المنفوخ من قوة ضرباتهم ورغبتي في إنهم يهدوا وأحيانا كنت باعيط دكتور تاني في حملي السنة اللي فاتت واللي الحمد لله متقبلين قضاء ربنا فيه ورغم صغر حجم الجنين قاللي دي بتتحرك جامد بتحسي بيها؟؟ قلتله آه سألني طيب وولادك التانيين؟؟ قلتله كلهم ما شاء الله كانوا بيلعبوا كرة قدم جوة المهم إن الحمد لله الولدين اتولدوا وكانوا بحمد الله أطفال طبيعيين ومافيش إلا مشاكل قليلة هينة في إبني التاني بسبب أدوية أخدتها وأكل أكلته وعدم إحساسي بيه لفترة طويلة لغاية ما أعلن عن نفسه وبتتعالج الحمد لله والبنت توفاها الله وذكرى ولادتها ووفاتها خلال أيام والحمد لله في قضائه الأكيد أهون من قضاء تاني كان محتمل في غير صالحها ولا صالح الأسرة وكل أما أفتكرها بدعي إن ربنا يجعلها ليا فرطا وسلفا وذخرا وأجرا وشفيعا مستجابا وإن ربنا يثقل بها موازيني ويجمع شمل الأسرة في الجنة فبالتالي أساس بناء القصة بالنسبالي باطل والست أخدت مهدئات وأدوية تخليها مدمنة وتخلي جنينها يموت في بطنها مش يتولد قوي أو لو حصلت طفرات تكون أي حاجة غير سلامة الجسد والصحة والقوةوعن الأطفال اللي بينموا أسرع وأقوى من أقرانهم مش فاهماها...
I'm dying to talk to someone about this book!Today I'm thinking - I'm not up on all my biblical symbolism, but is it maybe an Adam & Eve story?
I was just thinking, this is Doris Lessing, there is probably more to it than just the face-value story....?
And the part about the "scapegoat" right at the end made me think a lot.
Or maybe I'm just hallucinating this morning due to sleep deprivation!There are so many questions I have about this book.
What was *that*?!(I should add, I **HATED** The Golden Notebook, more than almost any other book I've ever read.
Pero se pasa realmente mal y es que no hace falta que un libro de terror tenga monstruos, aliens, etc, para dar miedo, es mucho mejor cuando cuentas una historia convencional y le das un toque siniestro.
Todo va bien con Luke, Helen, Jane y Paul, pero no con Ben. Desde bebé es extraño, más una bestezuela que un niño normal, y se dedica a destrozar una familia feliz desde dentro, con ganas y alevosía.
Todo lo que construyen sus padres durante más de una década se ve reducido a nada, alimentado con escenas horribles, siniestras, con las explicaciones justas y necesarias para plantearte miles de preguntas e interpretaciones.
مادری که در نتیجه ی بارداری ناخواسته صاحب کودکی میشه که از همون نوزادی شروره تم مشترک این فیلم با این کتابه.هر دو هم به نوعی تو ژانر وحشت طبقه بندی میشن.
این که این شر به ذات بچه بر می گرده یا نتیجه ی مهر و عاطفه ایه که مادر در دوران بارداری نسبت به فرزندش حس نمی کنه تا اخر ماجرا یه علامت سوال بزرگ باقی می مونه .
این بچه همه ی برنامه ها و مقاصد از پیش تعیین شده ی خانواده برای پیشرفت و خوشبختی رو نه تنها متوقف می کنه بلکه کل خانواده رودر منجلابی فرو می بره که نتیجه ای جز فروپاشی نداره.
This book freaked me out.
I've never read a Doris Lessing book before and I'm almost sure that this one is out of the ordinary compared to what she usually writes.
It's short but packed with lots of ideas concerning family, mother-children relationships, husband -wife relationships, societal expectations, etc.
All done with a touch of gothic horror to slide it right down.
Well worth the read.
Now I'm intrigued to read other titles from Lessing.
Although I'm afraid tackling would be a better choice of words when I think of The Golden Notebook.
Happy reading....
فرزند پنجم دربارهی خانواده است، دربارهی فروپاشی خانواده. چطور ممکن است تمام خوشیها ناگهان از بین بروند؟ چطور ممکن است زن و مردی مثل هریت و دیوید که تمام آرزویشان داشتن تعداد زیادی بچه است به وضعی برسند که دیگر رابطهشان به وضعی تصنعی و خالی از معنا بکشد؟ بِن فرزند پنجم است. او یک هیولای کوچک و مهارنشدنی است که نه میتوان از بینش بُرد و نه میتوان به حال رهایش کرد. او غیرعادی است، ناخوشایند و خالی از رفتارهای استاندارد اجتماعی. و دوریس لسینگ با روایتی ساده اما جذاب به داستان خانوادهای میپردازد که بی
فرزند پنجم درباره‌ی خانواده است، درباره‌ی فروپاشی خانواده.
چطور ممکن است تمام خوشی‌ها ناگهان از بین بروند؟ چطور ممکن است زن و مردی مثل هریت و دیوید که تمام آرزوی‌شان داشتن تعداد زیادی بچه است به وضعی برسند که دیگر رابطه‌شان به وضعی تصنعی و خالی از معنا بکشد؟ بِن فرزند پنجم است.
او یک هیولای کوچک و مهارنشدنی است که نه می‌توان از بینش بُرد و نه می‌توان به حال رهایش کرد.
او غیرعادی است، ناخوشایند و خالی از رفتارهای استاندارد اجتماعی.
و دوریس لسینگ با روایتی ساده اما جذاب به داستان خانواده‌ای می‌پردازد که بی‌آنکه متوجه باشند از کوه آرزوهای‌شان سقوط می‌کنند.
You cannot shape your child into what you want, says Doris Lessing: you must help him become what he is. He may not be exactly in your image - but he will be a special snowflake in his own way. Glad to be getting more parenting tips from literature.
People want to live like this, really."Harriet's mother Dorothy tries to talk some sense into her daughter and son-in-law in the most memorable passage in the book:"Harriet said fiercely, 'Perhaps we ought to have been born into another country.
But people like us, in the middle, we have to be careful about the children we have so we can look after them.'"David and Harriet refuse to listen.
They insist that they are old-fashioned people -- a superior breed in a newfangled world -- and they are going to have their unfashionably large family.
زن و مردی رو تصور کنید که از زندگی خانواده های خودشون راضی نیستن؛ پس تصمیم می گیرن که با هم یه خانواده ی جدید بسازن: خانواده ای بزرگ، پرجمعیت و شاد که پناه تمام عموزاده های غم زده و خواهر و برادرهای نیمه خوشبختشون باشه. البته، البته، البته که همچین نقشه ای محکوم به شکسته. ذات دنیاست که نقشه ی ما برای به شادی ابدی رسیدن رو به چالش بکشه. کتاب داستان سروکله زدن این خانواده با بچه ی پنجمشونه. بچه ای که اومده تا به شادی یه خونواده پایان بده...
Birth control might as well not even exist to David and Harriet, who think it is too, um, modern for their tastes.
David and Harriet make love (presumably for the first time) on their new bed, in their new house (which is really big, more like a hotel, really.), satisfied with their new life.
Harriet gives birth three more times within the next 3-4 years.
Harriet decides, along with David (who is working more and home less), that Ben is not of this world.
As Ben ages, Harriet likes to observe his struggle to fit in with the other Lovatt children.
Certainly this is an odd book and a story that I wasn't expecting.
I wasn't expecting another version of the Omen, but the case of Ben's childhood, in the 1960s, seems one that these days would have been dealt with very differently.
Lessing may be provoking controversy writing as she does about the behaviour of the family, and if that is the case, she has certainly succeeded.
Rather, it is a disturbing commentary on parenting, and if it was Lessing's aim to relate that, it was done accurately.
A middle-class English couple buck the disapproval of both their families and plan to have “at least six” children, buying a huge house and becoming the focus of all holiday gatherings.
I would have liked the story to come to some sort of solid ending; instead, the book ends as the mother considers selling the giant, empty house, and as Ben and his gang of Clockwork Orange droogs venture gradually from riots and petty theft to more vicious crimes.
The doctors and other healthcare professionals all pronounce him normal but Harriet and David and the other children can't bring themselves to believe it.At the start of the book I liked David but by the end I hated him.
I felt so sorry for Ben and (view spoiler)[ the depiction of what it was like in the home for unwanted children that he was sent to (hide spoiler)] was the most truly horrific part of the story for me.
(hide spoiler)]I did enjoy reading The Fifth Child even though it wasn't exactly the plot I was expecting to read.Rating: 3.5/5 stars (rounded up to 4 stars)

