https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4957350-tinkers
George sees himself in a framed set of tiles, moving pieces about and pondering what will happen when the frame is filled and there are no empty spaces left.I will remain a set of impressions porous and open to combination with all of the other vitreous squares floating about in whoever else’s frames, because there is always the space left in reserve for the rest of their own time, and to my great-grandchildren, with more spaces than tiles, I will be no more than the smoky arrangement of a set of rumors, and to their great-grandchildren nothing they ever know about, and so what army of strangers and ghosts has shaped and colored me until back to AdamGeorge, who repairs clocks, has a fear of impermanence that is matched by his tinker father, Howard, who in turn contemplates the passing of his own father, a minister succumbing to madness.It seemed to me as if my father simply faded away.
And years later, his son now retired is spending time tinkering with the clocks - tinkering like his father did, with clocks symbolizing pretty much everything your sharply attuned by your college English courses peppered with meanings and symbols and literary analysis and the significance of Holden Caulfield's hunting hat.And yet, while I appreciated the writing and the themes and such, I could not shake off the feeling that so much about this book felt - how would I phrase this?
The title is derived from the fact that George tinkers with and fixes clocks and at one point Howard (we are never quite sure where but most likely Vermont or New Hampshire or Maine), before he runs off to become a grocer in Philadelphia, works as a tinker which was originally defined as an itinerant salesman which is indeed what he was.
I suppose that the great-grandfather was a tinker in the sense that he worked long nights on sermons which he would never deliver, just tinkering with the words.The mood of the book reminded me a lot of the Bon Iver album For Emma, Forever Ago or Sun Kil Moon's Benji - a lonely, sad, mournful narrative of broken relationships and memories.
Harding gives a circumspect, if meandering, view of the conventions of time and space in the context of death and, in doing so, he provides a spectacularly insightful examination of life itself.
In less than 200 pages, Harding delves into the beauty of dew on a flower petal, the undying love between fathers and sons, and the question of whether time and space exist anywhere but within our selves.
Tinkers is a deeply philosophical dialectic couched in the very simple story of a man’s life and death, and I’ve read nothing that comes closer to helping me comprehend the wondrous, and frighteningly diaphanous, nature of our existence.
(Not that that matters.)  Beautiful writing and characters and sense of place and time, although they all got mixed up in my head and I think in the characters’ heads as well.
His father, Howard, was a genuine tinker, travelling from outpost to outpost, farm to farm, selling bits and pieces, bibs and bobs, and effecting repairs as he could.
Howard has seizures, which his wife successfully hides from the children, until one day, George watches, horrified, is pulled in to help, and has his hand horribly bitten as thanks.
This book won the Pulitzer and was lauded by the critics.
The fact that it was praised so highly bothers me.
I think I have a feel for a good book if for no other reason than that I have agreed so often with the best critic of all, time.
This book was touted for capturing a New England past.
That was what won it the critics praise and the prize.
When I think of beautiful writing I think of Proust or Lawrence Durrell in the Alexandria Quartet where the words flow like syrup to place you in the scene, to make you feel what the character is feeling.
This book is small and square. I bought it at the airport Barnes & Noble en route to my hometown for my Grandfather's funeral. It's lovely small squareness caught my eye. The description on the back which reads "An old man lies dying." made me think it was serendipity. I read the first paragraph and it was all sealed up. This is some of the most wonderful writing I've come across in quite a long time. I'm thrilled to have found it and can't wait to share it.
Lying in the bed in the middle of own living room, surrounded by family, among well-known things, listening to the clocks he used to repair an old man embarks on a journey.
While his weakened body heads for death and nothingness his disintegrate mind freely moves towards opposite direction having as a guide this unreliable companion that memory is.George Crosby, it’s his name, watchmaker and handyman, plagued by hallucinations recollects his life.
Fathers and sons.George repairs clocks, his basement is full of them.
Tinkers , small novel contrasting life with death, body with soul, time with eternity, man with nature is an attempt to understand and explore what life and humanity is.
Here is what I think the book is about: Guy gets married, wife was too young, wife resents husband and children, guy runs away, starts new life, his oldest son starts a life, son likes to fix clocks, both guys work a lot, money seems important, everyone dies.
Suzy, maybe you should take a stab at this one and tell me what I'm supposed to think, because right now all I think is that the constant references to clocks as metaphors for the passing of time is pretty damn obvious and a little redundant.
The story behind Tinkers is almost more fascinating than the book.
A very small press--Bellevue (yes, affiliated with Bellevue Medical Center, NYC--they also produce a nice literary mag that publishes only works that deal with mind/body, life/death/loss, illness issues, etc.) and they printed a very limited number of copies.
In an interview Harding says he found out he won on the Pulitzer website before he got the call.
Harding breaks rules--for example, he switches from past to present time from one paragraph to the next.
It's a lovely little book, powerful in its own way, and worth reading.
TINKERS is everything that I had hoped it would be: a quiet meditation on life and memory, a journey into worlds past, and a visceral exploration of the meaning in death, love, and family.
The vivid descriptions of a New England mostly gone are second only to the emotional realities on display lamenting his protagonist George Washington Crosby's battle with understanding the life of his long-lost father and reconciling the end of his own.
For a novel mainly about death, there is so much life breathed into Harding's prose.
I came across this book while looking for a “winter read” and was attracted to the cover.
I struggled with the book in the beginning and even thought about not finishing it.
There were many times I had no idea where the story was going, much like how the person on the cover must have felt, trudging through drifting snow in a blinding blizzard.
About halfway through though, I finally came to appreciate this introspective story.
After finishing I had a much better appreciation for the beauty of this simple cover.
I'd love to reread this book one day and read it straight through without stopping (something I couldn't do as I was traveling).
After I finished the book, I thought of these sentences as a trail (perhaps that's because I did a lot of hiking on my trip) that leads you back to where you started.
I first read these sentences in pieces, stopping to think, letting my mind settle on ideas and images, until I got to the end of the sentence and then I immediately started the sentence over again, not stopping the second time until I got to its end.
Something cool: I think this might have been sneakily narrated by the boy in the book who sat by his grandfather's death bed and read to him, a boy who later recreates all these impressions about his grandfather and great-grandfather, a boy who says to his grandpop: ".
I think that I have my literal age but am surrounded in a radius of years.
I think that these years of days, this near century of years, is a gift from you."
In this sense, "tinker" may mean: Irish Traveller, a nomadic or itinerant people of Irish origin; Scottish Travellers, a nomadic or intinerant people of Scottish origin; Gypsy or Quinqui.Two words that I learned while reading this short novel that won its author, Paul Harding, 42, a teacher of creative writing in Iowa, the 2010 Pulitzer Prizes for Letters.
While on his death bed, he reminisces his own father, Howard, 70 years ago as a "tinker" who sells all sorts of things loaded in his caravan going from one place to another to support a family of 5 with George as the eldest.
George feels love, pity and hate for his father so he runs away from home but Howard finds him hiding in a mysterious house.
I tried, I tried to like 'Tinkers.' Everyone else does, right?
I don't know, I felt like he was showing off instead of telling a story.
Characters I could have loved, had there been more about them, and less about the light on fields and the springs of clocks.You can have a good story where nothing happens--I'm thinking of Chris Ware's 'Jimmy Corrigan,' also about a son's ambivalent paternal connection--but even with the most accomplished artist, for me, substance trumps style.
There wasn't enough substance in 'Tinkers' for me.
Paul Harding's first book, Tinkers has totally amazed and delighted me.
In an editorial in the Boston Globe, on April 16, 2010, it was reported how Harding was unable to find a publisher, passing the manuscript around to many houses, until a small publisher (Bellevue Literary Press)agreed to do it.Several people urged that the book be entered for the Pulitzer Prize and to waive the $50 submission fee.
One of the most unusual is a scene of the moving of a huge house with the power of "eight titanic oxen".I have borrowed this book from the library, but I will now purchase it in order to further digest Harding's gifted, billiant language.
Using simple language in non-simple, metaphorical ways, he describes the last days of an elderly man who is dying at home--the memories of his youth, his father, the natural world he recalls, the clocks he fixed as both vocation and avocation.
Take your time over it; enjoy the glory of the descriptive language.At times it may seem disjointed by moving between times and characters--father, son, grandfather--but I feel that this is more than compensated for by the overall effect of the descriptions of the natural world and the process of George's gentle dying surrounded by family.10/10/13--after thinking about this for a while, I've decided to raise the rating to 5.
To me, it would have been a powerful story if it had been edited down to somewhere between 1/4 and 1/3 of its volume.
In many cases there were so many side stories that had no bearing on the meat of the tale.
I think one of the elements of the writer’s style that bothered me most though, was his tendency to repeat the same words in close proximity to each other.
I’d wonder if I was accidentally beginning to reread a phrase only to discover that no it was the author who seemed to be stuck in a loop.
Clarity of meaning was often sacrificed in favor of the author's particular style.
I so, so recommend this...and not for narcissistic reasons. This is a book that transcends personal identity.It's about loneliness, human frailty, fathers and sons, time and eternity. It's about so many things! If you like dense, complex writing, you should definitely read this. And, slowly. And, repeatedly.“Tinkers is truly remarkable… It confers on the reader the best privilege fiction can afford, the illusion of ghostly proximity to other human souls.”—Marilynne Robinson
Another splash of water revived Gilbert, and the two men sat for a time watching a pair of sparrows chase a crow above the fir trees on the other side of the river” Eventually Howard gets the tooth out.I can’t praise this book enough.
Which is to say: I have written the first line of each book and not a sentence more.
But, so you know, each first line is about my father.For me, all of this - all of this - is an attempt to figure out just who the hell I am.
And, by the way, yes he was.His despair came from the the fact that his wife saw him as a fool, as a useless tinker, a copier of bad verse from two-penny religious magazines, an epileptic, and could find no reason to turn her head and see him as something better.I won't tell you the plot.
If each lily pad is beautifully, carefully written, the reader will stay with you as you move toward the other side of the pond, needing only the barest of connections -- such as rhythm, tone, or mood (Bird by Bird, 59).
However, the novel's locus soon shifts to George's father, Howard, an epileptic traveling salesman who abandons his family when his wife decides to have him committed.
But while Wolf captures (in three pages) an entire life in that moment before death, I felt like I had only the most impressionistic sense of George's life after nearly 200 pages in Harding's novel.
I picked up this book because (a) it was short and (b) it won the Pulitzer Prize.Sigh.For my tastes, it was actually two books: one was a set of compelling, clearly written and effective narratives about a dying man, George Crosby, his father, Howard and the people in their lives.
The other was what I would call "Iowa Writers Workshop 101", including passages like this:"The true essence, the secret recipe of the forest and the light and the dark was too fine and subtle to be observed with my blunt eye -- water sac and nerves, miracle itself, fine itself, light catcher.
If I could give this book 500 stars, I would. It was beyond description in its beauty. As soon as I finished, I wanted to reread it. My friend Nellie who recommended it to me said, "The book is one giant quote." She was right. There was not a sentence that didn't make me ache in the best possible way."When the grandchildren had been little, they had asked if they could hide inside the clock. Now he wanted to gather them and open himself up and hide them among his ribs and faintly ticking heart."
It is a wonderful story of love and family relationships told through the thoughts of George Crosby, the clock repairer, as he lays dying.
He especially remembers his father, Howard, who was an itinerant peddler and tinkerer in the back country of Maine and suffered frequent fits of epilepsy.
The most interesting thing about Howard though is his hyper-awareness of nature as he travels the countryside which inspires some beautiful poetic thoughts.Paul Harding does a remarkable job of describing what happens to the body as one dies through George's awareness of the changes taking place in his body at the end.
It's truly a testament to an author's ability to write when he puts me to sleep after two pages.
I have no idea what the story is about nor who the characters are, yet by the middle of page two I want to slit my wrists.This actually won the Pulitzer?
Why does anyone think that character background equals a book?This is apparently the touching story of an old man about to die who thinks back on his life.
There is not an original thought in here, at least in as much as I read, which wasn't much, I couldn't help but skim it until I fell asleep.Umm...Nick, if mom is reading this review to you--sorry!
Well, I really don't like giving one star reviews--usually.
But truthfully, I not only didn't like Tinkers, I hated it.
He does not need everyone in the world to admire his story.
And in fact, I do believe it is the story itself I disliked so intensely--not the writer, nor even the writing.
He clearly has some talent: the book is slim, which I like.
Too many authors feel they need to pontificate too long.
The long descriptive paragraphs left me cold.
I found myself gnashing my teeth in something that felt much like fury.
While he is dying and drifts in and out of lucidity, George reflects on events from his childhood growing up in rural Maine and Massachusetts and dwells on metaphors about life gleaned from his retirement avocation of repairing clocks.
From these stepping stones, we slip into extended vignettes from the life of his father Howard in the 20's, a travelling salesman whose epilepsy led him to leave his family when George was young.
The links between Howard as a tinker and George as a clock fixer nicely elucidate alternate metaphors for human agency in the world.
Oh my, I have heard so much praise for this book and this author.
When the author focuses on relationship and interactions between people, if I was moved at all, I found his views depressing.
The book is about father(priest), son(tinker) and grandson.
The book is told as the grandson lies dying, surrounded by his family.
Ugh, I didn't like this book at all.
The book is rambling and unengaging, depressing, inconsistent in writing style and the messages imparted are unclear.I had a hard time enjoying the narration by Christian Rummel, given the content of the story and how it was written.
