https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/763594.The_Gemini_Contenders
Plus if you're into books with religious intrigue by author's not named "Dan Brown," you might wanna give this one a try.::SPOILER ALERT::As a student of theology, one problem I had with the book was the way that Ludlum talked about the filioque controversy and how it led to denials of Christ's divinity.
The East does NOT deny Christ's divinity or trinitarian right, rather they believe that because God is the source, the original creator, that the Holy Spirit cannot proceed through the Father AND the Son since the Father is the source (despite what is written in the Nicene Creed).
If the first half was well done and revealed itself as a surprise, as I didn't think this book would caught me like it did, the second half became a disappointment.A train leaves from Salonika, in the beginning of WWII, with documents which, in the bad hands, could endanger de faith of millions and that way be used as a weapon.
Not knowing about the box containing the documents so many are looking for, and in the middle of WWII, Victor does what he can to help the Allies destroying the German war machine, which is probably the most interesting part of all book, while gets some information about the train here and there.30 years later, it's his children, the twins (or Gemini) Andrew and Adrian, the ones left to continue the search for the documents.
Ако требаше да ја оценам книгава според преводот и печатните грешки, сигурно немаше ни да ја чекирам како прочитана. На Марија и Данче голема благодарност за подарокот, но македонското издание на никого не би го препорачала, жалам што ниту во една единствена страна неможев да уживам, грешките како да ми ги „бодеа“ очите....поздрав!
On the cover of the paperback a NYT reviewer called this book Ludlum's "most ambitious" novel. I would call it undisciplined. One has the distinct impression that he got near the end of a pretty good story and then just kept going as if he did no know how to end it. The second part introduces new characters, re-runs of characters in the first part, and ends with a melodramatic finish. Sure it is just a novel, of the beach vacation variety, but it could have been better.
I love Ludlum's books (except the Covert One series, and I'm not too crazy about the Bourne series either, yet).I love also following how his style developed over the years.
Cold War. Those are all completely different from Ludlum's first books by the style.The Gemini Contenders (1976) is surpisingly alike to The Scarlatti Inheritance by the slightly Godfather-esque storytelling.
Then Savarone is killed before he can reveal the secret or the location of the content, and his son Vittorio has to protect the contents without knowing what or where it is.
The first part follows Vittorio's, now Victor Fontine, story with trying to discover the location and the secret.
I first read The Gemini Contenders a little under forty years ago and remembered that I enjoyed it very much.
The narrative of The Gemini Contenders stretches from 1939 to 1973.
In a sense it's a religious thriller about some ancient papers which, if they fell into the wrong hands, would 'blow the world apart.' It has a well-drawn and sympathetic hero, some awful villains (usually in black robes)and a glamorous heroine.The Gemini Contenders starts very well and picks up pace during the war years but then flags.
Author of The Blue Pencil, Liberating Belsen and Two Families at War, all published by Sacristy Press.
I should know better by now that I shouldn't start reading a Ludlum novel when I have other things I have to do (homework, mowing the yard, feeding my children, sleep), but I still get them, and I love them!
By the end, there are no loose ends, and nothing seemingly closed without satisfaction.
I like this typ of novel in general, but Ludlum is one of the masters.
You definitely have to read this closely to keep everything straight, so no just a beach blanket read.
This is a 1976 entry in the fanatical/psychotic Christian sect - world shattering Religious Artefact supressed for centuries sub-genre of the thriller. It's a good deal more competent than a more recent such book that also features a trip to the Louvre, but then so are my schoolboy fictions.It deviates somewhat from the standard Ludlum formula, being one of the few with a historical setting and straggling through three generations of protagonists. This latter is a bit disconcerting but this volume is still a swift read, full of incident. Neither in the top nor bottom rank of Ludlum's many works.
it's a 3.5 rating really.... felt like two books clumsily stapled together, not one perfect volume. But it sufficed. It was an easy, and enjoyable, read.I really like the idea that a crucial bit of history could be stored away from prying eyes for CENTURIES.It's probably true, too.LOL:)
Brisk paced thriller.
secrecy, generational conflict, WWII aftermath, but author's development of characters is excellent at the beginning of the story and then becomes unbelieveable as the story progresses.
I generally like this type of adventure book, set over a long time period or several generations.
This had many of the elements I like, including multiple settings across Europe, some spy stuff during the war, family drama, secret societies, etc.
but I didn't think the writing was very good.
The descriptions were long, unwieldy and confusing.
The characters were pretty good, although most were pretty extreme and I hated that the only female of importance was tossed aside and rarely mentioned - would have liked to have some of her POV.
A fun book but nothing special.Definitely PG-13 or R for violence, occasional language, drug use, and a few sex scenes.
Въпреки че на моменти твърде много ми идваше политиката, мнението ми е, че историята е увлекателна, напрегната и държи читателя в напрежение. Втората част за близнаците беше за мен по - интересната, може би, защото там беше кулминацията. Една от книгите, които не ти се иска да оставиш, за да разгадаеш по - бързо мистерията и да разбереш каква е развръзката.
Finally it is Vittorio’s two twin sons Adrian and Andrew, the Gemini’s, whose quest it becomes to finally get to the box and reveal its contents, all be it for very different reasons.The change in direction towards the end of the book kept the story fresh, but it felt a little less realistic.
ISBN 0440128595 - Long before The DaVinci Code there were The Gemini Contenders - proving that fictional thrillers and religion have a long history of making good books together.Savarone Fontini-Cristi has a 2000 year old secret.
His son Vittorio spends a lifetime not knowing, or even caring all that much, about this secret - but many men, for many reasons, believe he knows more than he realizes or admits and are determined to find where Savarone has it hidden, at any cost.
Knowing his death is near, he turns the secret over to his sons, the Geminis, twins who could not possibly be more different from one another.
Yet another awesome Ludlum thriller from Pg1 to Pg 502.
The first half where Vittorio Fontine is the Hero is classic; the second part where the brothers are pitted against each other is quite stereotyped though; However the last few chapters are quite griping and hard to put down.
I really liked the way the author has created the character called Vittorio (Victor) and gone to great details on how he thinks and what he feels.
No one can beat Ludlum at this.
He portrays the generational shifts as the burden that needs to be carried on from Savarone to Victor and ultimately to Adrian up until the very last page.
Thank you Mr.Robert Ludlum !!5/15/15 1:15AM
I had good memories of Ludlum’s book.
Even if you go along with the hair brained story (the search for some manuscript that will turn upside down the Christian world) it is tough going.
The story is a bit disjointed.
We spend a lot of time on the activities of the father during the war although it has little to do with the main story; then we switch to the twin brothers, one of which starts out as a stiff military type who wants to stop corruption in the army and turns into a bloody murderer in just a few pages.
I always picked up Ludlum's books for my husband at the library but never got into them myself ... until later in life when I read The Bourne Identity and discovered I liked his style of writing. I enjoyed the first half of the Gemini Contenders, the second half, not as much - it totally changed gears. The story almost should have ended with the second generation (story-wise) of the Fontini-Cristi family, but then where would the title fit in?
I found the story line of this book to be intriguing.
However, it turned out to be much too long and kept asking myself is it ever going to end.
The story is actually divided into several parts.
I was following along fairly well until the final showdown between the two Fontine brothers at which time I became a bit confused about how their personal backgrounds and relationship added to the true message of the book.
I believe I will seek out a lighter (and perhaps a bit shorter) book for my next read.
Have I ever actually read a Ludlum thriller before?
Though of course I am crazy for the Bourne movies.
It’s easy to imagine this book being made into a movie.
There are twisted loyalties, families with secrets, good guys fighting bad Nazis, horrible Americans in Vietnam, corruption, a couple of steamy sex scenes, and a lot of blood and gore.
But then more fighting and shooting.
The story starts just before WWII on Italy, then jumps to 1970s US when the war was tearing families apart, and then back to 1920 Switzerland.
Read it if you want fast paced escape fiction.
Spoiler alert: Don't read further if you are not aware of the general premise of this book.In short, I don't care for fiction that fabricates a scenario casting doubts upon the Christ story. I also thought the conflict between the twin brothers was not well developed. In fact, the way the adult phase of their lives began I was convinced that the ultimate "good" brother was the bad guy and "bad" brother was the good guy. To me, they seemed to change horses in mid-stream.
an excellent thriller, very gripping and kept me wanting to read on.
3 star. I was looking for a twin novel. Sorry, got lost in the whole father, son and grand children involvement with a Church (or an arm of it).
I love the story when it is over, I just don't like how long it takes to get there.
An absolute incredible book. Had me on the edge with every page turned.
again horrible characters, mish mash story, couldnt wait to finish. Early Ludlum sucks
Complex escapism with a touch of religious mystery. It's what Ludlum does.
More great read from my favorite author.
Prima vermakelijk. Het boek bestaat uit twee delen, waarvan het eerste echt goed is en het tweede deel beduidend minder.
Kept waiting for it to get better and while it did, slightly, it was by and large a very disappointing read.
