https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109237.Selected_Poems
I always find it difficult to review a book, for so many thoughts keep jumping around at a time in my mind but the suitable words to express those thoughts always seem to deceiving me, and even more so difficult to review poetry, for (I feel) poetry itself is creation of refined art, it is a like something suspended in a thin air and which could be interpreted in so many ways, like a free flowing water stream which takes the color of landscapes it traverses through; nevertheless I try to write something about this amazing collection of poems by Borges and I hope it would be of some use to fellow readers.
Still, to step inside the mind of this master is to step into a magical realm of literature, knowledge and fantasy.Not unlike his short fiction, Borges fills his poems with ethereal visions of winding labyrinths, notions of infinity, dreams, the sadistic and mystical nature of mirrors, and endless allusions to literature ranging from the famous Greek stories, James Joyce, Walt Whitman, and spreading to the most esoteric myths he could conjure up.
One aspect I really enjoyed of this collection was that it included the poem in its original language across from the translation.
God has created nights well-populatedwith dreams, crowded with mirror images,so that man may feel that he is nothing morethan vain reflection. That's what frightens us.Was it Dr. Johnson who marveled over Montaigne, how could he know what I had been thinking? It doesn't matter, it could have been Walter Benjamin pondering Spinoza on both of those frontiers. History is mute, amused sufficiently with bumps and reversals. Plagues and witch hunts pass the time. It could also have been Boris Johnson, weighing what he had assisted, not worrying about Whitman or Chekhov. Not really worrying at all.
A poesiavolta como a aurora e o ocaso.Às vezes, certas tardes uma caraOlha-nos do mais fundo dum espelho;A arte deve ser como esse espelhoQue nos revela a nossa própria cara.Contam que Ulisses, farto de prodígiosChorou de amor ao divisar sua ÍtacaVerde e humilde.
A arte é esta ÍtacaDe verde eternidade, e não prodígios.Também é como o rio interminávelQue passa e fica e é cristal de um mesmoHeráclito inconstante, que é o mesmoE é outro, como o rio interminável.»
the justa man who cultivates his garden, as voltaire wished.he who is grateful for the existence of 
If you do not know the story you can read more here https://www.borges.pitt.edu/sites/def...This, for example, is a translation I love deeply and is far superior to that in this collection:  Rain  Evening, a sudden clearing of the mist,For now a fine, soft rain is freshening.It falls and it did fall.
Rain is a thingThat no doubt always happens in the past.Hearing it fall, the senses will be ledBack to a blessèd time that first disclosedTo the child a flower that was called the roseAnd an extraordinary color, red.These drops that blind our panes to the world outsideWill brighten the black grapes on a certain trellisOut in the far, lost suburbs of the townWhere a courtyard was.
But the longer I sit on this one, the closer I get to understanding the reasons behind Borges' claim.Initial highlights: "El hacedor" (The Maker), "Una rosa amarilla" (A Yellow Rose), "Ragnarök," "Borges y yo" (Borges and I), "Poema de los dones" (Poem of Gifts), "El otro tigre" (The Other Tiger), the scathing theological critique that is "Lucas, XXIII," "Adrogué," "Arte poética," and the series of poems called simply "Museo" (Museum)—in particular, the wonderful "Del rigor en la ciencia" (On Scientific Rigor).El otro, el mismo (The Self and the Other): 4/5Borges writes that[t]his book is but a compilation.
Ars PoeticaTo look at the river made of time and waterAnd remember that time is another river,To know that we are lost like the riverAnd that faces dissolve like water.To be aware that waking dreams it is not asleepWhile it is another dream, and that the deathThat our flesh goes in fear of is that deathWhich comes every night and is called sleep.To see in the day or in the year a symbolOf the days of man and of his years,To transmute the outrage of the yearsinto a music, a murmur of voices, and a symbol,To see in death sleep, and in the sunsetA sad gold - such is poetry,Which is immortal and poor.
Art is that IthacaOf green eternity, not of marvels.It is also like the river with no endThat flows and remains and is the mirror of one sameInconstant Heraclitus, who is the sameAnd is another, like the river with no end.
This bilingual edition is a treasure chest, a compendium of the life's work in verse by perhaps South America's best poet after Neruda.
The Spanish originals are absolutely magnificent - rich and fluid, with all the latin-sired nobility so inherent in the widespread romance tongue - while the English translations, wisely abandoning rhyme for the most part, do a more than admirable job of capturing the icy fire with which Borges was lit by his muse.Strange that there are dreams, that there are mirrors.Strange that the ordinary, worn-out waysof every day encompass the imaginedand endless universe woven by reflections.God (I've begun to think) implants a promisein all that insubstantial architecturethat makes light out of the impervious surfaceof glass, and makes the shadow out of dreams.God has created nights well-populatedwith dreams, crowded with mirror imagesso that man my feel that he is nothing morethan vain reflection.
JLB states: "All verse should have two obligations: to communicate precise instance and to touch us physically, as the presence of the sea does" and reading this thick selection of poems I start to feel that although satisfying and sometimes even truly startling, mostly his poetry doesn't touch me.
"Whoever reads my words is inventing them", he says and immediately leaves space to interprent his vast catalogue as one wishes, although the themes of death, physical impairement, uncertainty, sadness, longing are repeating themselves on & on, new tome after new tone.To criticize Borges is almost sacrilegious yet I felt rarely connected, "at the sea"s, or in Ulyssian Ithaca, as he puts it in one of his most acute poems "Ars Poetica": "They say Ulysses, wearied of wonders,wept with love on seeing Ithaca,humble and green.
I just don't think poetry is his strong point.
Maybe it's the translators to some of these poems.
The times Borges talks about his homeland or the people he knew, I had no idea what he was talking about.
One thing I like a lot with this publication though is they had the poems in English and in Spanish.
I just wish my Spanish wasn't so rusty.
For poetry, I think dual language publications really works well.
Even if you don't know Spanish, the poem is beautiful to read.
One underrated thing Borges is know for is his love of langue.
Depois dos jogadores se terem ido,Depois do tempo os ter consumido,Decerto não terá cessado o rito.No oriente incendiou-se esta guerraCujo anfiteatro é hoje a terra.Como o outro, este jogo é infinito.(Xadrez, Jorge Luís Borges)
Se va al carajo este viejo. Què hermoso es leer una Obra Completa de un Autor, es una experiencia ùnica opino. Hay mucha belleza en este libro.
Shinto When misfortune confounds usin an instant we are savedby the humblest actionsof memory or attention:the taste of fruit, the taste of water,that face returned to us in dream,the first jasmine flowers of November,the infinite yearning of the compass,a book we thought forever lost,the pulsing of a hexameter,the little key that opens a house,the smell of sandalwood or library,the ancient name of a street,the colourations of a map,an unforeseen etymology,the smoothness of a filed fingernail,the date that we were searching for,counting the twelve dark bell-strokes,a sudden physical pain.Eight million the deities of Shintowho travel the earth, secretly.Those modest divinities touch us, touch us, and pass on by.
ThingsMy walking-stick, small change, key-ring,The docile lock and the belatedNotes my few days left will grantNo time to read, the cards, the table,A book, in its pages, that pressedViolet, the leavings of an afternoonDoubtless unforgettable, forgotten,The reddened mirror facing to the westWhere burns illusory dawn.
Borges apparently always fancied himself more a poet than a novelist or literary theorist - which I found intriguing as his work in prose is some of the most ingenuous and magical writing ever committed to paper. Needless to say I was interested to see what Borges could conjure in his poetry. I was not disappointed, the man was simply brilliant. I can't recommend him, and this collection of his poetry in particular, highly enough!
الرابطhttp://www.4shared.com/office/JwOOCB3...
A very nice selection of the poetry of Borges with both Spanish texts and translations by a variety of translators, the book includes the poet's prologues, inscriptions, and epilogues to the various volumes from which the selections came.
It's all here, labyrinths, tigers, knives and swords, mirrors, dreams, death, blindness, libraries, books, Saxons, Norse mythology, Homer, Virgil, Dante, Cervantes, Milton, Poe, the Bible, and Buenos Aires, and all transformed by the genius of Borges into sublime poetry.
. ." This is a book to read before sleep as a catalyst for big dreams.
Interesting to read this after 10 years. Clearly I was just a little concerned by death.I'm going to compare this to When Harry Met Sally (yeah, it's weird):Harry: ...Do you ever think about death?Sally: Yes. Harry: Sure you do, a fleeting thought that jumps in and out of the transient of your mind. I spend hours, I spend days... Sally: And you think that makes you a better person. Harry: Look, when the shit comes down I'm gonna be prepared and you're not that's all I'm saying. 'Nuff said.
ثمة بيت لفرلين لن أتذكره مرة اخرى ثمة شارع جانبي محرم علي ان امشي فيه ثمة مرآة عكست صورتي لآخر مرة ولن تعكسها مرة اخرى ثمة باب أغلقته لآخر مرة ولن أغلقه بعد ذلك أبدا من بين الكتب في مكتبتي ها انا انظر اليهاثمة كتب لن افتحها أبدا مرة اخرى في الصيف القادم سأكون قد اكملت الخمسين:الموت يغزوني، باستمرار.كتاب طبعا جميل في البداية حوارات معه والباقي قصائد مختارة في موضوع المترجم صحيح انني تأخرت كثيرا باكتشافه لكني سعيدشكرًا حسن حلمي
Jorge Luis Borges me encanta en sus poemas jjenos de emociones e sensibilidad,nos lleva al profundo del corazon!
"أن تحدق في نهر من الزمان والماء،وتتذكر أن الزمان نهر آخر.أن تحيل إساءة السنيننغمًا وصوتًا.ذهبي هو الفن، متواضع وأبدي،متواتر كالفجر."
لا أحب الشعر المترجم بالعادة لكن أعجبتني هنا بعض القصائد، واختيار القصائد كان موفقا حيث المواضيع مختلفة ولم يختَر قصائد ذات معاني مكررة
Each is short, to the point, and haunting:The SuicideNot a star will remain in the night.The night itself will not remain.I will die and with me the sumOf the intolerable universe.I’ll erase the pyramids, the coins,The continents and all the faces.I’ll erase the accumulated past.I’ll make dust of history, dust of dust.Now I gaze at the last sunset.I am listening to the last bird.I bequeath nothingness to no-one.Limits (this is Anthony Kerrigan's translation, which I think is a little better than the one in the book:)There is a line of Verlaine I shall not recall again,There is a nearby street forbidden to my step,There is a mirror that has seen me for the last time,There is a door I have shut until the end of the world.Among the books in my library (I have them before me)There are some I shall never reopen.This summer I complete my fiftieth year:Death reduces me incessantly.
Borges's poetry, especially of the later years, becomes repetitive, relatively emotionless, and quite prose-y.
That the later poetry, especially after the they-may-as-well-be-ficciones prose poems of The Maker, lacks this viscerality and vitality shouldn't be surprising, considering Borges said that after Fervor de Buenos Aires he looked only for "mornings, the center of town, [and] peace." If he would have continued in the vein of Fervor, and continued his nocturnal wanderings, I think he could have easily become one of the great poets of the century; instead, he merely became of the great prose stylists of said century.
I just fail to understand why so many people love this book.
You have accepted,since that long forgotten past,the love of the distrustful hand.You belong to another time.
You are lordof a place bounded like a dream."What is this style?
If you still don't understand what I mean, let's take another horrible quote:"a river made of time and water"Is this considered a metaphor?
If it were just time, I'd understand the whole thing, but water and time?Yes, I'm blind myself, just like him, but that doesn't mean that beauty should be lost because you can't see.
Therefore, I loved this book with most of the best poems from throughout his career.I know just enough Espanol to get the gist of (usually) and enjoy the language of these poems in their original form but having the English translations on facing pages is quite helpful.
These translations are generally pretty decent and some quite excellent.Borges is better known for his prose (which was pretty poetic) at this time, and for his influence on later Latin American novelists, a bridge of sorts between surrealism and magic realism.
This book is a great place to get to know him and his work, in convenient bite-sized yet yummy pieces!
Οφείλω να ομολογήσω ότι γνώριζα μόνο το πεζογραφικό έργο του Μπόρχες, το οποίο λατρεύω και πάντα με συνεπαίρνει.
Διαβάζοντας τα ποιήματά του, ανακάλυψα ακόμα μια πιο ευαίσθητη πλευρά του, η οποία όμως εμπεριέχει την ίδια διαύγεια που εκπέμπουν τα άλλα αναγνώσματά του.
Μάλιστα ήμουνα συνεχώς με ένα χαμόγελο γιατί αποδεικνύεται ακόμη μια φορά, πέραν πάσης αμφιβολίας, ότι ο Μπόρχες ήταν ένας από αυτούς τους ανθρώπους που είχε κάτι να πει, κατ' ακρίβειαν είχε πολλά να πει και τα κατάφερε τόσο καλά...Σημείωση: Κι ένα μεγάλο μπράβο στην ελληνική έκδοση από τις εκδόσεις Πατάκη για την επιμέλεια, μετάφραση, διόρθωση, εισαγωγικά σημειώματα, τα οποία ήταν εξαιρετικά στο σύνολό τους.
Daylight leaks in, and sluggishly I surfacefrom my own dreams into the common dreamand things assume again their proper placesand their accustomed shapes. Into this presentthe Past intrudes, in all its dizzying range --the centuries-old habits of migrationin birds and men, the armies in their legionsall fallen to the sword, and Rome and Carthage.The trappings of my day also come back:my voice, my face, my nervousness, my luck.If only Death, that other waking-up,would grant me a time free of all memoryof my own name and all that I have been.If only morning meant oblivion."
Borges was a remarkable poet, a remarkable writer in every sense. He could bring together in his poems so many disparate elements: history, metaphysics, biography, personal observation and weave it all into a powerfully sympathetic view of the human condition. He was someone deeply inspired by ideas. Though one sees this more easily in his prose, it is not absent in his poetry. But what makes him truly great, deserving of the multiple Nobel Prize nominations he received, is that he is not simply writing about ideas but about humanity, about the human perception of reality.
Borges's words are mystical and lovely and deep. They encompass the wisdom of a life lived and not lived. At times, his words are labyrinthine and complex and other times a simple three-word sentence leaves you in pieces. I absolutely love this collection. I think everyone should read it at least once.(And he was an advocate of libraries!)
