https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270804.Glass
I have never wanted to slap a protagonist in the face as much as in this book! I also liked Ellen's mention of banned books and how all it's doing is hiding reality we should be learning from. Kids reading this book might actually get the crap scared out of them enough to stay the heck away from drugs! Yet, some prefer to make sure their kids are blind to the realities of our society? I rather read this to my child than have them star in their own story like this because they don't know better.
After I finished Crank, I practically sped my way to Barnes and Noble go get this book, the second in the series.
In this follow-up to Kristina's sordid tale, she continues to chronicle her life with the monster (crystal meth).
As with the first book, I was mesmerized at Hopkins' narrative.
She's able to construct a linear narrative out of a series of concrete poems where readers become entangled in all of Kristina'a dilemmas.
The tale is disturbingly beautiful, emotionally jarring, and elaborately constructed.
Can't wait to read the third book!
I actually found this one to be a bit more believable in terms of the way her addiction played out, and while it could have been just the same plot re-hashed, it definitely didn't feel that way to me.
More drug dealing, with a stop-off at a whore house, as well.
Definitely not a pleasant story, and I'm a bit surprised to see the publisher intended these books for ages 14+!
While these books could definitely read as anti-drug propaganda, Hopkins really does a good job of balancing the "drugs are bad" message with story, characters, and her great verse.
Probably Bart, anyway so they made this cardboard cutout of an angel and they lowered it through the window on strings, to mess with Ned Flanders's twins.
So they were messing with the twins making the angel float around and William H Macy animated alter-ego's sons were going like; we are not worthy, we are not worthy, bowing and such.
Another thing, if you are going through a reading slump, a term I personally dislike and do not accept, much like how religious/conservatives do not accept climate change, then read this novel.
This is a harrowing read, but it ends right and like I always say, but don't say it enough.
I felt like the writing wasn't as passionate as it'd been in the first book, and I could no longer feel badly for Kristina/Bree.
In this book, Kristina made her life a living hell, whereas in the first book I felt like her father played a huge role in her fall - which is why I had felt badly for her.
If I was Kristina's mother, I would make sure she was at home and watching Hunter.
Also, why did it seem like Kristina was always with a guy?
I swear, how did she find all these guys who did drugs and liked her?
Check out my youtube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfer...3.5/5 Stars Sequel to Crank which follows Kristina's downward spiral with crystal meth after the birth of her son, Hunter.
I definitely didn't enjoy this one as much as Crank.
It was hard to feel sorry for Kristina based on the decisions she made...
I'm assuming that these decisions are because she is an addict, although I must admit that I don't know how the mind works while taking meth.
It just annoyed me that no one around her seemed to be trying that hard to help her.
I am interested in reading the third book as it follows Kristina's children.
Laura Flanagan's reading of the audiobook was fantastic, and as difficult of a read as it was, it gave me so much to think about in the end of it all.Full review:"You can get addicted to a certain kind of sadnessLike resignation to the end, always the endSo when we found that we could not make senseWell you said that we would still be friendsBut I'll admit that I was glad that it was over."- "Somebody That I Used to Know" - GotyeThought it was appropriate to quote these lines from this song since it was in my head as I started meditating over my thoughts about "Glass."I'm still shaking and a bit misty eyed even in the aftermath of reading this because - watching someone fall this hard while in a seemingly endless cycle of addiction to drugs is not easy in any measure, whether in fiction or in real life.
Pardon the awful use of wordplay, but I was addicted to this book about a teenage girl's continued journey through the frightening realm of meth use.
Glass is the sequel to Hopkins's first novel, Crank, in which Kristina, a former honors student, experiments with tobacco, alcohol, and meth while visiting her lowlife dad for the summer.
Raped by a fellow meth user in Crank, Kristina, now almost 18, is living at home in Reno and raising her newborn son Hunter.
Written in verse, Glass is a sad, poignant, and guiltily fascinating depiction of a "normal" girl unraveling her "normal" life, and descending into a truly dark, crazy, and perhaps inescapable world.
3.5/5This is the sequel to the book, Crank. It explores the aftermath of Kristina’s life after her son, Hunter, is born. I found it to be a bit slower and less engaging than the first.
These books are, excuse the pun, but so addicting. They are depressing and stress-inducing. You will be so mad at the characters and yet, you love them and are rooting for them to find a way. Major triggers for any kind of addiction, particularly drugs. Masterfully written and brutally honest... I need a minute to process! I didn't quite love this one as much as the first, but it was a fantastic sequel and I will be reading the final installment, Fallout, right away!
“Life was radical right after I met the monster.Later, life became harder, complicated.Ultimately, a living hell, like swimming against a riptide,Walking the wrong direction in the fast lane of the freeway,Waking from sweetest dreams to find yourself in the middle of a nightmare.”  _______________________________One word: Fantastic(Sidenote: This is essentially going to be a re-review of Crank, because I don't want to spoil you. Thus, it will also be very brief.) It's a common thing for books t
With a plot that builds upon the first that inexplicably draws you in to check in with Kristina and the monster, Glass is an experience to read, as it's predecessor Crank was.
Both of them (and all of her books) have outstanding writing and a roller-coaster like plot.
If you are not human and don't care about being spoiled, here is the synopsis: (view spoiler)[ This takes place right where Crank ends with Kristina/Bree giving up her addiction to have her baby.
As also stated in the previous review, Kristina/Bree is the main character.
Wow. I don't know what else to say about this sequel to Crank, another favorite of mine. Ellen Hopkins has once again managed to blow me away. There were so many unexpected twists and turns in Glass, and I can honestly say that every single page held my complete attention. Glass is without a doubt one of my favorite books I have ever read.
And once it's got ahold of you, this monster will never let go."Kristina/ Bree her evil split personality, hooks up with old partying loser friends to score of course and she meets Trey.
Starts a new job at 7-eleven where she finds another supplier and can work to get cash to buy yes you guessed it more crank.
Then Treys cousin decides to quit drugs and introduces Kristina to the Mexican Drug cartel.
She and Trey end up in a shit whole weekly motel, run out of money, steal blank checks from her mom, score tons of crank and tells Mexican Mafia she is good for it.
Man, what a great book.
This book was the second installment of the Crank series, and I can say it did not disappoint.It follows Kristina as she spirals into the depths of a meth addiction.
The plot and the pacing of the book is pretty slow, but the reader gets hooked because they want to know what happens.
And believe me, I will pick up the 3rd book and finish this series.
This book is not a light read.
None the less, I hope people will read this book and take the message to heart, and see the harm drugs can do.
I would have believed in a second that she herself was a meth addict simply because the writing felt that authentic.
I found it tremendously sad that these books were born of her daughters personal struggle.Glass was the continuation of the same story but for me it felt less poetic.
I still admired the structure of the book but it felt different than the first.
The story was much grittier, very believable.
I will most likely try the final book and if I finish the series, that will be a first for me.
After I was done with Crank, I learned that there was a sequel to it. The name is Glass. I was disappointed with this book compared to, Crank but it still was an awesome book.  Glass picks up right off where Crank ended. This girl is still all messed up on drugs and has many other problems to go along with that. She keeps driving her family further and further away. Later she gets so bad that instead of buying it and using it, she is now dealing it. This tends to get her into a lot of trouble. S
After I was done with Crank, I learned that there was a sequel to it.
Glass picks up right off where Crank ended.
She loses her child; she gets raped multiple times, and has not had contact with her family in over a year.
It always seems like she gets into a situation every time she makes a deal.
This book is similar to Crank, along the lines of what you learn from the story.
If your wondering what drugs are out there and how they mess you up, this series of Ellen Hopkins books are for you.
This book is just as depressing as the last one, just when we think our MC is in the clear, she falls back to the monster. This book gives a very realistic picture of a meth addict trying to recover. And how easy it is to fall back into the trap.
This is the second book in the Crank trilogy, and I am torn between feeling a sadness at finishing the trilogy, happy I'm starting a new book, dying to know what happens, but at the same time, not wanting to know what happens to Kristina.
The first book, Crank, had me feeling just sad, all-around sad, because of Kristina's new friend and life.
I feel like I've learned a lot about the awful effects drug addiction has on someone.
This story, these books, make me feel lucky I didn't get mixed up with the wrong people.
There has to be a third book, because this girl needs to die.
I will not be satisfied until that selfish, dirty, deceitful bitch dies.
The way she treated her son made me want to cry, and in no way was I sad for her.
I was sad for her poor, helpless baby.
Stuck under a chair, sucking on a bleeding lip, and crawling on the floor among ashes and meth.
I need there to be another book that includes her death, just so I can be satisfied with the time I've wasted on reading the first two.
Awesome! Haha, you can bet I won't ever be touching drugs. Not after reading this.
Drug addiction is ugly, and Kristina will do anything for the monster, including parting with her family and leaving her baby behind.This book was intense!
Like Crank, Glass provided an intimate look inside the ugliness and horrors of meth addiction.
Kristina wanted to break free of the monster in Glass, and yet she couldn't get away from it.
The emotional contrasts made Glass a fascinating read.I think Glass was sadder than Crank simply because Kristina's child, Hunter, was involved.
The monster really becomes a character in itself in the books, which I like.
At A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: No.Cliff Hanger: ehTriggers: Drug Abuse.
Rating: 3 stars.
Score SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot: 7Characters: 7World Building: 7Flow:  7Series Congruity: 8Writing: 8Ending: 7Total: 7In DeptBest Part: The baby is happy.
ConclusionContinuing the Series: YesRecommending: YesShort Review: Right after i finished this, i gave it a 2 star rating, i have since bumped it to 3.
I liked the book.
It kept well with the first book.
Stop taking the damn drugs and take care of your damn child.
I am so glad her mother took the baby.
Drugs are bad kids.
Book Boyfriend: Pass.
Despite many recommendations from my classmates, I really don't like this series that much.
Despite hating her incredibly stupid decisions, I didn't hate this book.
Plus, it's not a hard read because it's written in free-verse, so the book goes by fast, and it's written like how the author thought a teenager's mind would sound.There is a LOT of cursing, and it is a little graphic at times, so I wouldn't recommend this to some.
It was pretty good. Less exciting than the first one but hey, still amazing.
Not as good as the first book, but still an enjoyable read.Trigger warnings for drug abuse, and cheating. 3/5 stars.
Another 5 star rating as I continue to follow Kristina's journey. See my full review here ; http://bellathebibliophile.blogspot.c...
Another stunning and heartbreaking Ellen Hopkins! I love her writing and her books more and more!
Six months ago, I read   Crank  , a compulsively addictive YA free-verse novel about one girl’s downward spiral at the hands of crystal meth.  Crank , from 2004, put Ellen Hopkins on the map as an author. Since then, she’s written a dozen books, most of them YA, all of them in verse, all with one-word titles, all of them ranging from like 500-700 pages, and most of them with tacky jacket art. Two of them are sequels to  Crank , and there are three separate multi-title series. Busy lady, Ellen Ho
Since then, she’s written a dozen books, most of them YA, all of them in verse, all with one-word titles, all of them ranging from like 500-700 pages, and most of them with tacky jacket art.
You know, if you’ve read any of Hopkins' books, that extreme but frighteningly plausible horrors will soon start to arrive and escalate.
And, if you’re lucky enough to have them and have them near, you’ll be hugging your spouse and your kids at least once apiece before you finish.If you never have read an Ellen Hopkins book, you should pick one up, if just to see the page layouts.
Being a fan of Crank also by Ellen Hopkins just topped off the book.In the book Crank Kristina gets addicted to a drug called Crank.
Now in Glass, Kristina has had her child, Hunter .
They both really like each other and, Kristina can get more glass from him.
Kristina's mom started to realize how bad Kristina was getting.
Trey, herself and glass in the car.
The book ends with Kristina in jail, pregnant with her daughter autumn, and not to hear of Trey.This book is very good, and written in poety.
2.5 starsI was nonetheless disappointed with Glass. Considering how much I enjoyed  Crank  and how excited it had me to read the rest of this series, I felt let down after finishing Glass, which is unfortunate. First off, the writing: The writing of Crank feels so much more poetic and strong compared to the writing of Glass, which had made it less interesting for me to read as the writing in Crank was one of the main things that made me give it a five-star rating. Glass' writing felt a lot more
First off, the writing: The writing of Crank feels so much more poetic and strong compared to the writing of Glass, which had made it less interesting for me to read as the writing in Crank was one of the main things that made me give it a five-star rating.
Glass' writing felt a lot more tell than show, in comparison to Crank.
In addition, I also felt so further strayed away and disconnected from Kristina than I did while reading Crank.
In Glass, we get to see a lot more of Bree, but the writing of Bree felt so underwhelming.
