https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105548.The_Foot_Book
After a day of hard playing at school, those little piggies get ripe!Apparently The Foot Book is one they have at school and obviously it's a favorite, because Emma passed over a dozen other good choices (even Cinderella!) and grabbed up my two copies (why do I have two?) so we could both read it at the same time.
But as you no doubt know, when you assume you make and ass out of you and me.Her mom came early to pick her up, so I didn't get the chance to ask her how much she liked the book, but she asked if she could have one of the copies to take home with her, so that was kind of answer enough.
Easy read for kids, my granddaughter read it to me. Classic Seuss.
by Andrea Renee CoxAnother great book by Dr. Seuss, but that doesn't come as a surprise to me. He was always one of my favorites when I was young. Such an imagination he had! I connected with that then... and now. This book of opposites is fun and entertaining with cute pictures and rhyming words. Enjoyable for any age kid.I was not compensated for my honest review.
“The Foot Book” is a children’s book from the greatest mind of children’s books, Dr. Seuss and it is about how the main character, a fuzzy and golden looking character, introduces the various types of feet that everyone has.
Dr. Seuss’ illustrations are perfect as usual as he makes the characters look surreal yet friendly as all the characters are wearing black and yellow jumpsuits along with red, green, and red shoes that look like clown shoes since they are large.“The Foot Book” is an excellent book for children who love reading about different types of feet in a humorous way and will surely become a major cult classic in any family who are fans of Dr. Seuss’ books.
The sillier the book, the more my son loves it ❤️
An exciting survey of the different kinds of feet you will meet.
If I were reviewing this book from my two year old's point of view I'd be far more liberal with the stars. From me it's only getting three. I enjoyed it the first two hundred times, but the plot's a bit lacking. Our favorite part:his feet,her feet,fuzzy fur feetWho doesn't love fuzzy fur feet?
My kids are celebrating Dr. Seuss's birthday in school and my my sons' shad an assignment to find a Dr. Seuss book that had an affect on their early life, read it, and bring it to school the next day.
Even after all these years, he can still bring a smile to a child's face and make them feel like a superstar when they finally can tackle the book by themselves.
That is why people still celebrate this brilliant man, whose simple rhymes and catchy phrases still bring smiles to children and adults everywhere.
This isn't one of our favorite Dr. Seuss books. It doesn't have a lot of content, other then a few rhymes about feet. My biggest attraction to this book is that it's about feet, something I like. My children were half interested in it. Nice addition to a full Dr. Seuss collection for the die hards out there, but not imperative.
Love it! There is a cute song on you tube to go with it as well. Read it with a preschooler today. Then we listened to the song. We especially liked “ furry feet!”
Personal Response:I read The Foot Book to my little step bother told me he liked this book because of how many different feet there were and how he had never been read this book but other and never heard of this one.
The first main event was when the weird looking horse came of and said feet feet feet.
As jacob said to me there so many different kinds of feet as he was staring at his.
For one, this book would be great when teaching children about opposites.
Throughout the whole book Dr. Seuss compares opposites such as big foot, small foot and his foot, her foot.
Another lesson that could be taught from this book is all the different types of people that children are going to meet in their lifetime.
For instance, they may meet someone with big feet, or small feet or maybe even some people with black or red feet.
He was just trying to portray to children that there are many types of different people in this world and that we are not all the same.I would recommend this book to younger readers such as kindergarten to second grade.
The Foot Book is a classic Dr. Suess book that talks about the opposites.
The tone throughout the book is a very melodic and poetic with its rhyming every other sentences, making it a great book to read to any child.
As I read this book to a five-year old, she enjoyed the illustrations that were in each page.
She made her own story by just looking at the many details in each page.
In the Foot Book, he talks about how everything has an opposite.
A Foot Book can be especially fun to children because of it’s bright colors that the illustrator used in each page.
It only took a few reads for the 2yo to remember most of the adjectives, and to say them with great relish. Now, after 20 or so iterations, I barely have to say a word! (And it teaches left and right too, which are remembered more often than not. At least for feet.)
I think this is one of the best Dr. Seuss books out there. It is full of funny rhymes about different kinds of feet. I would definitely recommend this book to young children who are just learning to read. Find The Foot Book at the Westminster Public Library!
Another book that I managed to read during my lunch break the other day and it was such delightful read! I flipped through it twice, it was so much fun :) I really missed out on a lot, not having read any books by Dr. Seuss in my childhood but I'll try to make up for it now. In this, I particularly loved the quote "In the house and on the street, how many different feet you meet!". It stayed with me throughout the day and kept replaying in my head :D
So the "Story" of this book is about one fuzzy animal walking around town and pointing out every bodies feet.
I believe the theme of this book is to teach children about feet and which one is right and which one is left.
I also believe the character is static.
He does not change at all during the course of the story.In The foot book all of the pages are bleeds.
They also use very bright pastel shaded colors for the backgrounds and characters.This book is a Rhyming book, it uses rhyme and repetition to teach and reteach the idea of feet.
I read this book for my college class as a preschool concept book. This book is most definitely a beginners book for children starting to read. It is a great book to use when talking about differences and even easy body parts (think feet, arms, legs, head, etc.)
Dit is een van de minst interessante Dr. Seussboeken. Het is erg kort (slechts 34 blz.), bevat zeer weinig tekst en gaat inderdaad alleen over voeten. Dr. Seuss komt hierin niet erg geïnspireerd over, en het boekje mist de ongeremde fantasie van zijn andere werk.
Rhyming, rhyming everywhere. Some are here and some are there. We love rhyming, yes, we do. Do you love the rhyming too? A personal favorite and now a favorite for my school kids. Who knew there were so many different kinds of feet!
This is the first book I remember reading as a kid, so it holds some sentimental value, but the images and rhythm are as fun as ever. Seuss is always solid.
The book that started the rumor that Dr. Seuss had a foot fetish.
I shall never look at feet in the same way again.
This is a great book for kids who are just starting to learn to read!!
This is the first book I remember being read to me when I was little. I have always loved this book, and I think I always will. I think this book can teach kids all different kinds of things. For example, it can teach them rhyming words, as well as the many things feet can do. It is a very good book for beginner readers.
FeetsAnother of my childhood favorites revisited as I organize my bookshelves.
Read with Shaniya!
Okay, so I'm sitting in the exam room today waiting for my doctor to come in (and eventually tell me I have a sinus infection) when my husband says, "Hey, there's a Dr. Seuss book." There stuck between the year old Women's Day magazines is a well used copy of Dr. Seuss' The Foot Book.
Every few pages I'd glance over at my husband and smile because of the simple joy in Seuss' rhymes.
My doctor would work to make my body healthy today but it is clear that Dr. Seuss has been working to make generations of happy healthy readers.
Rate: 4Review: the book the foot book is a very good book for young children to read.
The foot book teachs young children about their opposites and what opposites mean.
The book describes that you can have wet feet, dry feet, high foot, and a low foot which is good for young children to learn aboutAuthor: Dr. SuessThe author Dr. Seuss was an American writer and poet, and cartoonist.
It was not uncommon for him to throw out 95% of his material until he settled on a theme for his book.Overview of the book:The foot book is about how we can learn about opposites.
this book teaches us the difference between those things.
It is certainly the most memorable.Long ago when I waited tables at an up-scale restaurant, this book was kept beneath the hostess stand.
The restaurant discouraged children, but for some guests, their children were permitted.Anyhow, it become a custom on Saturday evenings for me to break out this book and read it to all the tables in my section.
:)Now, I read this to my children.****2 March 2011Today, to celebrate Dr. Seuss' birthday, I read this book to my students.
We had good fun identifying the antonyms (in fourth grade we shun the word opposites).Happy birthday, to the Seuss-man.
