https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99690.No_Man_Is_an_Island
Having just finished No Man Is an Island, I can honestly say that it is one of the best spiritual books I've read.
This is the second of Merton's that I've read.
Part of it is just life in general, but part of it is becoming caught up in the ways of our modern world.The second to last chapter, on Solitude, is as well pertinent to modern man surrounded by cameras and becoming more and more surveilled.
A quote that particularly stood out to me from this chapter is this, "A community that seeks to invade or destroy the spiritual solitude of the individuals who compose it is condemning itself to death by spiritual asphyxiation."
Its about connections and faith and hope and love and compassion and reflection and giving ourselves to the present.Its about being who we are truly and opening and allowing ourselves to be exposed to the elements of the world and letting those things change us by not changing us at all but making who we are more of ourselves.
It truly is a book that simply states the way men live and they way a man should live and which one are you?
Everyone in the universe(because the world is just too small) should no rather MUST read this book.
But these type of books never dare to challenge the official doctrine imposed by the Vatican, they never provide anything with a bit of any real "flavor".
Tell me about scientific and historic truth as being a different thing altogether from the Gospel's theological truths.
Aknowledge the elephant in the room, which is the scientific impossibility of many things you are talking about, and propose some ways for science and faith to co-exist, as they can do.
Tell me that faith is fundamentally a way to live well with yourself and with other people (like Pope Benedict dared to say in one of his books).
I have been reading this forever.
At first, I couldn't get past the all male language that he uses throughout.
The only feminine language used is when referencing the Church, although in both negative and positive lights, the Church, in this book, is in direct conversation with God. Of the conversation partners, God, is always male.
So after I got over that - this book is AMAZING!
Theology is inspiring and clearly comes from a place of experience and practice.
Merton is both a practitioner, academic and contemplative (a fine combination).
So far, I find this a very...good read.
Just one listen and that's not enough. Like Contemplative Prayer I am going to need to listen to this again ... and probably again and again before I can write a review. He's not easy! But taking a break in between to listen to The Intimate Merton: His Life from His Journals, while I read a bio about him as well.
What Merton has done here is talk about love well.
Not that the writing is lacking- Merton is a pleasure to read.
Many topics are covered in these essays, some of them more religiously specific than others, but there is something to be gained in all of them for the person of faith who seeks to remain thoughtful and grounded about important things.
When the waters of loving and serving others, God, and myself become muddy, I am sure that I will be revisiting these words to see again how all of those things are interrelated.
A good read, but might be more frustrating than enlightening depending on where you're coming from.
As a quasi-skeptic (and seeker of truth) with a history with religion, I found plenty to think about and relate to here, but also plenty to question and scratch my head over--Merton takes the mythology and language of Christianity for granted, for example, which precludes a deeper exploration of the human condition outside of that framework; also, out of nowhere there's a lot of focus on monkhood at one point, which for most readers is probably a bit too specific to be relevant.
An incredibly dense set of essays that need to be taken slowly, else you risk missing the full impact of Merton's wisdom.
I kept forgetting that I was borrowing a friend's copy of the book, so I would fumble for a pen to notate all the epiphanies I came across, only to be frustrated at the fact that I had to leave the pages blank!
Definitely buying myself a copy; I know this is a book I will need ready access to in the future.
I really like Thomas Merton in something of an indescribable way.
This will not stop me from trying to describe my love for Merton.
When I read him I just think he "gets it".
He says the most insightful brutally honest things and I feel understands what I understand the search for God and truth to be, especially in the context of being an active Catholic.
And by active Catholic, I mean he doesn't take his faith for granted but is actively engaged in probing it's meaning.
No Man is an Island is my favorite of the books of his that I have read.
Read this while in Malta. I'll review in a couple days once I clear my desk at work and home.
I didn't agree with everything in this book, but I found it interesting. A few passages really helped me.
Blind love that finds no fulfillment brings no happy end.We must develop a mature conscience to make good choices.
Holy Spirit comes to us through the Church and the sacraments to live in charity and self-sacrifice like Jesus.9.
The Spirit of God will teach us how to live by His law of charity, peacefully, humbly, simply, and wisely so that we love others more that ourselves as Jesus loved us (John 15:12).Prayer is the means to discover God’s will and gain grace to carry out our desire.
“Pure intention” is a “secret and spiritual word of God” that we seek and give back to God (p.
Your spirit must seek to be as clean and as free as His own Spirit, in order to follow Him wherever He goes." Okay, Thomas, I'll get right on that.
The Lord arrives from all directions at once.
Wherever we go, we discover that He has just arrived before us." Thomas, stop.
Basically the entire book was full of these ultra-spiritual, esoteric, airy-fairy, impractical "deep-isms".
I can't exactly give this book one star since there were a few gems found in here that I dog-eared (precious few), but it's definitely not worth the pain of reading the entire book.
If we are lucky, once or twice in our lives a book will come along that will truly, drastically, change us.
This was one such book.
I first read it a little more than fifteen years ago and I felt that it was unquestionably one of the greatest books I had ever read.
This is still a really good book.
I still truly enjoyed this book and would recommend it to anyone who would consider themselves a true reader (knocking out a few dozen YA novels a year does not count as real reading).
There were some gems in this book but overall, it was not that inspiring to me.
Every man has a vocation to be someone: but he must understand clearly that in order to fulfill his vocation he can only be one person: himself.
I’ve never read Thomas Merton’s famous autobiography, The Seven Storey Mountain (or indeed anything by him), but I’d read bits and pieces about his life and his writings, and I decided to give him a try.
Merton has a very intellectual/philosophical writing style, so it’s not a light read – it’s hard to follow sometimes (at least for me), but he makes a lot of really good points that stuck with me, so it’s worth the effort.
Personally, as a Christian I got a lot out of it, so either way I'd recommend it.
I’ll be looking to read some more of him at some point.
Timeless, and of great depth. This is a book that I will be coming back to continually.
I found Merton's writings difficult at first to absorb, as he has a tendency to be long winded and unclear.
That being said, Merton has interesting insights and profound thoughts on God and spirituality.
I highlighted many sections, and it is a book to be read again and again for more meaning and insight.
Some chapters were exceptional, especially the last ones, " The Wind Blows Where it Pleases," and "Silence." Perhaps it was Merton at his best, or perhaps I at this point have caught on to his writing style and thoughts, and was better able to absorb his teachings.
Excellent.
I read this a few years ago and return to it again and again.
It's a book you must own: finding yourself, knowing yourself; healing body, mind, Spirit.
I also read.
"Seeds of Contemplation", which I recommend.
I had read Marianne Williamson's "A Return to Love", in 1993 and this sent me on a search for the source of inner healing.
Love is the answer.
Our subconscious at work, which is ever reinforced in Dr Joseph Murphy's book, "The power of your Subconscious Mind".
see the website "Ichoosetoheal".
Merton discusses the questions: Why do I exist?
What is my mission or purpose?
His direct and simple language still allow him to communicate profound truths. You can read all the Christian mystics and learn startling interpretations and themes, but John Tauler and Thomas Merton are those rare ones who have combined style with concrete teachings about the living of the Christian life. Much of what he says has helped my spiritual life and made me acknowledge thing I've kept unsolved. Highly recommend reading this.
I Have been reading many spiritual books: Zen and Tibetan Buddhism and Christianity, and I must say No Man is an Island is the greatest book I have read so far. This is not one of those books one can just read and understand (even though it is written in simple English). This book should be read by all who are seeking for meanings in life and in their relationship with God.
This book changed my life. Right from the first page. I've read other books by Merton, some of which are quite complicated, but this one I loved. I read it every few years. Reminds me about what is important, to get out of myself, to listen to others, to learn, to remain teachable, to find what your purpose in life is and use the talents God has given you.
Merton always cuts through the treacle of modern and contemporary spirituality, exposing the thick layers of egotism and narcissism that stifle any true relationship with God. This book is no exception. Going through various topics (e.g., "Sincerity," "Asceticism and Sacrifice," "Vocation,"), Merton challenges the reader to question the noise and lies of modern society, in order to find God.
I can't recommend this book highly enough. My normal style of reading is to devour books in a couple days, but I had to pace myself with this to give time to dwell on the life-changing truths. If you are seeking a deeper understanding of your relationship to God and the people around you, you must read this book.
NMIAI gets my highest recommendation. Merton was a true Christian, a true genius. He had his thumb on the pulse of humanity, its many cultures and ways of thinking. Oftentimes in this book I felt as though he was addressing me personally- he is that good at diagnosing the human condition. Get it, read it.
One of Merton's absolute best books! If you really want to understand why you're on this planet and how to live within it with any sense of sanity, read this book. It will put so much in perspective. I can't say enough good things about it!
As many who heard Christ speak, I echo their words after reading this book..."these are hard sayings indeed!"
Very insightful man. Dense book with lots of good thoughts on a variety of topics. Looking forward to reading more from T Merton.
10 out of 5 stars. Truly the best book I have ever read. His reflections are very deep and have caused me joy and sadness. I will have to reread this for the rest of my life.
