https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/653297.Mustang_Man
Not quite my favorite L'Amour, but definitely a great read!
Naturally, my heart went out to him immediately.This story isn't as solid as Mojave Crossing, meandering a bit with a confused through-line that wanders between the girl and the gold.
Still, I can't help feeling that Sylvie is almost one-dimensional in contrast—mitigated somewhat by having her brother join her in the soullessly evil category (so it's clear the evil isn't so much female as it is that "some folks just ain't right").So it's a 3.5 book with the big softie Nolan giving it enough heart to push it to four.
Although it is 14th in the series, this was the first book in the Sackett saga I read.
I didn't think at first this was the book for me because it's a western, but I was so wrong.
I got pulled into the story from page one.
Louis L'Amour is wonderful at setting the stage and I was instantly drawn in.
I found it to be a wonderful story, with lovable characters, and a brilliant plot.
I am now reading the 5th book "Ride the River" with Echo Sackett.
First book so far (from what I've read) told from the perspective of one of the Clinch Mountain Sacketts. Nolan was a surprisingly enjoyable character to follow, and I liked his woman. Again, the ending took my off guard, but I think it was mainly because I was listening to it. Since I can't see the pages as I'm getting toward the end, and since L'Amour tends to end abruptly, it sometimes takes me off guard. However, once I stopped and re-listened to the last minute or so again, I had a better feel for things.
Classic Lamour plot trajectory. You know who the good guys and bad guys are. You know who is going to win. You know who is going to get the girl. And waht's wrong with that?A great way to spend a few evenings getting lost from the necessary.
He suggested a couple of them, one being Mustang Man. I'm glad I started with this one, it was a pretty neat little read!I'll be honest, I didn't love this book, but I believe that I will not love any books of this genre simply for the fact that it's not "up my alley." That doesn't mean that the experience was bad, or that the writing was bad or that I didn't like it at all, just that I probably will not pick up a L'Amour novel every chance I get.
this book is very interesting and action pact even though it the first sackett book that i had read 
I've always liked L'Amour's Sackett books, and have re-read them on several ocassions. But as I read this one, I was suprised how little of it was familiar, which tells me I had only read this one once or twice. I was pleasantly surprised, it's one of the better Sackett novels. there are some intelligent twists to this one that you don't expect. It's a western, but it's a good one. It is what it is. I don't go to L'Amour expecting deep philosophy, I go for escape and fun.
So back when I was a horse-crazy little kid living in cowboy country, this book (and a slew of others by L'Amour) were what I fell asleep reading every night. And Mustang Man in particular was my very favorite. I must have read it thirty times in three years. :-D It was probably a very bad influence on me, but I still can't see that title without smiling fondly.
You just have to love L'Amour books. Simple, interesting, fun! What the old wild west must have been like!
I'd seen men die before, but never like that.
Good book! The two female characters were annoying. It kind of reminded me of Bonanza.
There was little law at the time.I have come to realize that Nolan has a big heart and like so many of the other Sacketts he just needs to find a good woman and a purpose for his life.
Meeting the others of his extended family living in the west (THE SACKETT BRAND) has him considering settling down and learning to read and write.This is a story of gold and some really despicable relative of a nice young lady trying to find gold that her father buried long ago.
It was fun and typical of Louis L'Amour, no character growth, lots of action, some convolutions in the plot, good description of the country, and a little love interest thrown in for good measure.
I had read this some years back but didn't remember any of it.
How the Karnes were related was never disclosed, but it is a western, so some things can be forgiven.
Nolan, well, he is Nolan, a good guy outlaw of sorts, rough around the edges but good at heart.So, if you want a couple hours of mindless but entertaining western reading, get a copy of this and have a good time.
One of the few books since the first 4 that I'd give a 5/5. This book brought the action from Page 1 until the end, and the villains in this book were markedly different, and in most ways- darker, than the average Sackett villain. It was also kind of refreshing to read about a Sackett who isn't a total superman, who has some chinks in his armor, who sometimes gets beaten and outsmarted along the way.Great read from start to finish!
Another book in the Sackett series, this features Nolan Sackett who is an outlaw with a heart of gold -- or is that a heart that lusts after gold? Never you worry, Nolan is a Sackett and a good man who will no doubt save the day and the girl. This is a quick-read Western and I enjoyed it.If you like Westerns, you'll probably like this one, too.
This had all the western things I like. This is the first Sackett series book I have read, and it was great. The story flowed perfectly and the action was in vivid detail. Ordered Galloway from Amazon, which is the next book in the series. I will finish reading the books in order, then go back to the beginning.
I enjoyed this story. It was a quick and interesting read for me. I felt like I was in the old west as I read it. Lots of actions and a push for education within the story. I can easily see this as a movie. I would recommend this book to teens and adults who like actions while they read it.
Action and adventure start to finish! Always relish and avid fan of Mister LamourRecommend to all readers of all western lore! Action and adventure of what it was how the West was established!
Like all Sackett novels they're the Rambos of the wild west. Always interesting and entertaining, but also a little far fetched. I plan on finishing the series, but 18 books are a lot. They can't help but become redundant.
Love everything he writes, but wish he wasn't so vague about Penelope and her actions. Would have liked to see a little more personality.
Good read, even if it is formulaic.
Another good L'Amour book about the adventures of one of the Sacketts. Usual story line - cowboy meets girl, had almost fatal adventure, finds fairy tale ending. :)
I actually thought that this book was one of his better. (His characterization seemed real to me.)
This is another great Sackett tale. Nolan Sackett finds gold and something like affection for a young lady. It is a good story that is full of excitement.
This one stayed with one first person POV the whole way through, which was new for the Sackett books I've read so far. It was also kinder to the horses than some.
This was one was hard to put down and kept me on my toes until the end.
Just as good the 2nd time round.
I read every L’Amour book I can find since then and this is a classic; it’s filled with all the suspense, action, and adventure that you can expect from a normal western, along with just the right amount of romance.
Other than that I thought the book was superb; the adventure was unique and well told, and the ending was as it should be: the good guy gets the gold and the girl and then rides off into the sunset.
This would be a good read for any fan of westerns; however there are other Louis L’Amour books that I have enjoyed more than this one.
Sackett is escaping a band of Mexicans and a noose on back of a stolen horse.Nolan Sackett is passing through Indian country, and comes across a wagon with a girl (Sylvie), her brothers (Ralph& Andrew).
When he mentions the group he ran across, and his mistrust for them, his suspicions seem confirmed when he notices the expressions of alarm on their faces.3-19Nolan learns that Penelope is traveling in search of a gold inheritance, and Sylvie (near relative) heard about the treasure when listening to the reading of Penelope's grandmother's will.
