https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764288.Argonauts_of_the_Western_Pacific
This was a cornerstone of my Readings in Ethnography course in graduate school. Basically a classic of anthropology that also had an impact on the fields of folklore and ethnomusicology. And happens to be set in islands off the coast of but belonging to Papua New Guinea!
The rhetorical style of the time Malinowski was writing makes this classic a tough read today, but for the Oceanist, or anyone interested in economic exchange, this is a must-read. Accompany it with Reo Fortune's Sorcerers of Dobu, and follow it up with Annette Weiner's Women of Value, Men of Renown, and Susanna Kuehling's Dobu.
Malinowski constituye un ejemplo de cómo hacer etnografía, es un manual sin duda de cómo realizar esta labor. Lo recomiendo para cualquier antropólogo.
Argonauts of the Western Pacific is an anthrological monograph on Kula exchange, a form of ritual gift giving that was practiced in the Trobriand Islands off Eastern New Guinea at the time when Bronislaw Malinowski conducted his field work in the location between 1914 and 1920.
At each location they would participated in ceremonies in which they presented armbands as opening gifts (yagas) to the island's chief and received necklasses as return gifts (yotile).
An expedition travelling in a counterclockwise circuit would necklasses (as yagas) and receives armbands (as yotiles) in return.The whole exercise was both absurd and dangerous.
Bronislaw Malinowski, Argonauts of the Western Pacific: An Account of Native Enterprise and Adventure in the Archipelagoes of Melanesian New Guinea [1922] 526 pagesAn account largely of the "Kula Ring", a complex and apparently non-utilitarian system of exchanges of shell armlets and necklaces among the islands of Melanesia, this book is a classic of ethnological literature.
Using the kula as a focal point, the book discusses canoe-making and navigation, more purely economic trade, magic, mythology, and social organization in the region, particularly in the Trobriand Islands.

the KULA!
desriptive and detailed account about the KULA ceremony by the Trobrianders.
One of the first books (since starting goodreads) that I didn't finish not because I didn't like it, I just could get my head around it as the mercury rose. I wish I could say I was committed enough to read anthropological theory in hot weather, but by halfway through, I couldn't concentrate enough to know what was going on. So, shelved until fall!
Weirdly dehistoricized! Malinowski keeps referring to how things were done "in olden days," and seems to attribute many of the changes to the white man's influence–pearling more profitable than fishing, decreased intertribal violence. But there's no real effort to interrogate the colonialist enterprise or its operations; mostly, it's just a bummer that things ain't like they used to be.
3.5 Revolutionary for its time, in the way it regarded the importance of the work "on the field" as well as the foundamental concept of laying down one's methods of research. It is in many ways outdated now, but can still definitely give several interesting sparks for reflection.
We read excerpts of this in the ethnography classes then read the diary. If you delve into Malinowski, make sure you take a look at his personal take on the people he observed. Another man who shocked the world by being human and not so objective.
First published 1922. A great file-cabinet of a book deserving of an honored place among the classic anthropology texts.
Speaking of leading critical minds to water...you can cry colonialism all you want. I still enjoy this immensly.
Lovely read ~ fascinating descriptions of the Kula district and trading customs/languages, its people and diversity.
Argonauts of the Western Pacific by Bronislaw Malinowski (1984)
made the mistake of reading his diary. now his work can't get past the thing I've learn about him...
ethnography is very rich and the introduction is an important description of the way ethnography was (attempted to be) done for much of the twentieth century.
Non so come ho fatto a dimenticare di aggiungere questo libro! "Superato" per molti aspetti ma imprescindibile nella storia dell'antropologia!
Basically an anthro classic I'm reading for grad school. A crucial book, but it is slow and boring. A product of its age.
I must have read some Malinowski when I was in college and an Anthro major. This one rings a bell but I doubt that I read it. Maybe some day.
Never *technically* finished it, but man was it ever inspiring.
