https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22571693-the-shadow-puppet
Smetterò di leggere Simenon e i romanzi con Maigret quando ne incontrerò uno, non dico brutto (sarebbe una condizione impossibile), ma almeno un po' meno bello degli altri.Purtroppo con "L'ombra cinese" non ci sono andato nemmeno vicino perché è uno dei migliori (vabbe' uno dei "un po' più belli") Maigret che abbia finora letto.Un gioiellino perfetto con la solita umanità che, sotto lo sguardo sornione di Maigret, ruota intorno ad un delitto che, in questo caso, si consuma in un condominio: quasi un delitto della stanza chiusa.
So sad that it almost made you want to give up on being a man, on living on this earth, even though the sun shines over it for several hours a day and there are real birds flying freely!Most of the characters are pathetic, grotesque.
She was talking!
She was going to talk some more!
Out of hatred for the Martins, for the dead man, for all the residents of the building, out of hatred for the whole of humanity!
In the right mood, at the end of a long day of corporate mendacity, these are the perfect tonic.
Really good!These books are small and quick reads but theyreally are very entertaining and Simenon really does makes you think sometimes with his insights into human nature.
The building’s officious concierge realizes that Monsieur Couchet is dead when she notices him behind his lighted frosted window not having moved for a long time.
The image of Courbet as a shadow puppet lingers with Chief Inspector Jules Maigret for the length of the novel, and he begins to think of the investigation as shadow puppets in a drama, and readers will, too.Couchet has built a pharmaceutical empire, Doctor Rivière's Serums, and leaves a fortune.
So who would want the affable, generous Couchet dead?
Couchet’s considerate mistress?
Or Couchet’s drug-addled son from his first marriage?
Another great Maigret.A scientist is at his table pouring serums into vials. Someone shoots him and his body is found slumped over at the table. His laboratory is an a large apartment complex with a quadrant in the middle. The man's body is easily seen through the windows of the surrounding apartments.Did anyone see anything? Why was this man killed? It turns out his ex-wife and current husband live in one of the apartments. What do they know?Maigret puts together all the pieces.

The original French title means "Shadow play," and it was particularly appropriate considering the circumstances of the story.
Inspector Maigret concentrates his investigation on the residents of the courtyard, plus two or three others who knew the murdered M.
It is a shadow play that doesn't take form until an event occurs that shakes the inspector from his lethargy, as he sees sudden marked changes in some of the suspects.
Simenon's Maigret novels is almost always worth reading.
No, on the contrary, they are Gallic with a vengeance, as Maigret sees his role not so much as a detective who marshals his facts as a witness to a shadow play that suddenly becomes very real.
I scanned through another 100 pages and even from such a brief look I could see that the storyline was not progressing.
From here progression is quickly in place.
I notice though there has been mention of his different writing periods and I believe that as the latter book was written in 1970 that it wasn’t of the quality of Maigret Mystified.
I believe his middle period of work inspired by his visit to New York is very highly thought of.
I will have to hunt down his early titles and his New York books so watch out for more Simenon reviews.
This is a typical Maigret story.
The Chief Inspector has not clear idea and allows the case to unfold before him through patient well structured questoning.
As usual the more notorious less cultured characters appear in the best light; Maigret likes the victim for how he treats others and the most scorn is shown to the more previledged classes.
However a crime has been committed and the policeman will not rest until the truth is exposed.These books are able to be read in an evening and the stories are always a pleasure to read and reason over the motive and culprit.
Maigret solves another squalid murder. The intertwined characters would be pitiable if only so many of them were not also morally corrupt, greedy, and spineless. There are two likable people. One is the victim and the other loses what little chance she had in life.It was sad. So sad it almost made you want to give up on being a man, on living on this earth even though the sun shines over it for several hours a day and there are real birds flying freely!
لدي اهتمام متزايد بقراءة القصص البوليسية مؤخراً. خيال الظل، هذه القصة جيدة لكنها لم تعجبني كثيراً، أحداثها ليست مشوقة بالقدر الذي يثيرك حتى النهاية لمعرفة القاتل.
Fast-paced, even for Simenon. There are some unbelievable coincidences that would be unforgivable in other writers, but Simenon gets away with them because you, the reader, know that the plot really isn't the point. What exactly is the point? To immerse yourself in the setting; both Paris and the stratified layers of society. Like Maigret we walk the streets, chomp on our pipes, mutter under our breath; he is a scoundrel, but he is an honest scoundrel!, and duck into a bar for a beer.
3.5/5
(At least, I never know what is going on) Then suddenly Maigret has all these things take place which he is supposed to have arranged but the read does not have clue about any of it.
This story a struggling man discovers a process for some serum and makes a lot of money.
When the struggling man made his fortune and married a second woman, the first woman resented the heck out of missing out on the money.
The safe gets robbed and the rich man gets shot and Maigret has to find out who did it.
The twelfth Maigret novel. A good'un. A cast restricted to the 28 inhabitants of an apartment block where a man is found shot. Complex relationships between first and second families, wives, mistresses, concierge, etc. Maigret persists in this claustrophobic atmosphere, and there is a stunning twist! Wonderful.
Simenon non delude mai!Un racconto molto piacevole, che oltre al classico omicidio, coinvolge amanti, melodrammi in famiglia e i rapporti di buon/cattivo vicinato.Il tutto reso da uno stile semplice e diretto, che ben si addice al tono della storia.Bene, davvero!
I have lately read som reviews of Maigret books.
The books never came my way though, and when I found one in a second hand shop, I quickly grabbed it.This mystery was first published in 1932.
I quite enjoyed the story and the way he was solving the crime.An industrialist, Raymond Couchet is shot dead in his office one evening.
In the building lives Couchet's first wife and her new husband.
Next to the room in the hotel where Nine stays, Couchet's son Roger (with his ex-wife) is lodging with his mistress.
Apesar de se tratar, evidentemente, de um romance policial, não é possível o classificar como um "mistério".
Os detalhes do crime não se revelam a partir da análise de evidências sólidas, como nas obras de Doyle, ou do raciocínio aguçado do protagonista, como nas de Agatha Christie, mas aparecem quase que naturalmente, através da própria narrativa.
Assim, Maigret se torna pouco mais que um mero espectador dos dramas previsíveis e pouco originais dos personagens envolvidos na trama.
Em alguns momentos, a atmosfera, aliada à narrativa, torna possível até mesmo que o leitor chegue a acreditar que o Comissário Maigret realiza algum esforço intelectual em direção ao deslinde do crime.
In the meantime though the awful wife can't wait and trades him in for a boring civil servant with a pension.
Couchet is another in the long line of earthy, mistress laden men that Simenon obviously admires- big heart, big appetite, etc.
And of the awful wife and spineless civil servant.
In their apartment, Maigret reflects: ""It was sad.
So sad that it almost made you want to give up on being a man, on living on this earth, even the sun shines over it for several hours a day there are real birds flying freely." Yep, that's Simenon.
Most of the time, I will have read the book before I watch the film.
I've read most of the Inspector Maigret books, but those were the ones that had been translated into English.
Now that Penguin has undertaken to translate more of them, there are lots of new stories.
Thank you, Penguin.Unfortunately, most of those (that I've read so far) that are just now being translated had been ignored for a reason.
In fact, I had already seen the film of this story in the French TV Maigret series starring Bruno Cremer (who plays a great Maigret).
Shortly after a wealthy businessman is murdered in his office, it is discovered that he had been also robbed.
Maigret must find the killer.
Is it the dead man’s mistress who is a showgirl with no ambition and no future prospects?
His now married ex-wife who lives in the same building as where the murder and robbery takes place?
His socially upscale second wife who likely married him for his money?
These same three women all stand to benefit from his death.
Maigret works it out in the end in this sad tale of disappointed lives set amidst poverty, greed, and unfulfilled dreams.
Not so much food or wine in this book... almost none, in fact. Strange. Was Simenon nursing a terrible hangover at the time? I wonder...I loved this otherwise-traditional Maigret adventure, though -- pensive, meditative, thoughtful, and mostly holding off from any investigation whatsoever -- but really hated the translation. So many sentences required two or three readings to unravel their awkward / confused translations. Favorite sentence, though: "He had a pasty complexion, red-rimmed eyes and soft lips that were a sign of his spinelessness."
أحد أبرع كتاب الرواية البوليسية بلا ابتذال أو اسفاف ينسج حبكته ويحلل شخصيات عمله عبر سرد دقيق يفصل نفسيات الشخصيات عبر ذهن مفتشه المفضل ميجريه الداهية الصبور عبر أسئلته الدقيقة المتمهلة التي تعتمد على الاستماع أكثر من التحدث .
Good Old CrochetMaigret finds himself liking a murdered man that he never met while he looks for his murderer among 28 residents of what an American would call an apartment complex. This Simenon novel has especially strong character portraits of sad and nasty people.
Continua il mio amore con maigret.
Another Maigret mysteryAs ever a fast read, this time Maigret has been drawn in to solve a murder of a man that has many suspects, with things to hide and multiple possible motives.
One of the best, if not the best Maigret, so far. Great plot, great searing psychological insight. Great fun, really.
The best thing about the Shadow Puppet is the storyline. The characters aren't all that great, but the plot is fascinating. An enjoyable one all in all
great twist at the end.
Tragic, absurd, superb!
