https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40873920-the-lost-city-of-the-monkey-god
”I peered out the window, transfixed. I can scarcely find words to describe the opulence of the rainforest that unrolled below us. The tree crowns were packed together like puffballs, displaying every possible hue, tint, and shade of green. Chartreuse, emerald, lime, aquamarine, teal, bottle, glaucous, asparagus, olive, celadon, jade, malachite--mere words are inadequate to express the chromatic infinites.” Douglas Preston was always interested in lost civilizations, so when he got the chance to
Douglas Preston was always interested in lost civilizations, so when he got the chance to join an expedition into the mosquitia jungle in Honduras to find the Lost City of the Monkey God, he was more than interested, he was all in.
The Monkey God expedition members returned to their regular life, relieved that they did not come down with any major diseases; the bites and rashes that they all suffered from disappeared, but then weeks later over half the group had a sore appear that would not heal.
3.5 stars! People need history in order to know themselves, to build a sense of identity and pride, continuity, community, and hope for the future.  The White City (aka the Lost City of the Monkey God) was a legend...until now.For the last 500 years, rumors have flooded every major news outlet.... only you be proven false - every single time.However, with the invention of new technology and a dogged determination, several explorers, architects and writers (including the author) set off to discov
People need history in order to know themselves, to build a sense of identity and pride, continuity, community, and hope for the future.
only you be proven false - every single time.However, with the invention of new technology and a dogged determination, several explorers, architects and writers (including the author) set off to discover whether or not there's an entire undiscovered city hidden in Honduras in the 21st century.(spoiler alert) There is.
Yikes!).I wish the author would have given more page space to the city exploration.
Fairly good audiobook...though it is always a pet peeve of mine when authors don't read autobiographical journeysBlog | Instagram | Twitter
The Lost City of the Monkey God: A True StoryWritten by: Douglas PrestonNarrated by: Bill MumyThis was such an exciting audible book and filled with rich history and science.
Mr Preston starts the book with how he got started on this trip and all the investigations he had to do to get information on finding what he could.
This was NOT a fiction book.
This was just an exciting and captivating book.
I enjoyed this more than his fiction books.
This was an audible book and the narrator was very clear and his voice was pleasant to listen to.
sometimes too scary.This book starts out with the search for a lost civilization in Honduras.
When the ancient ruins are revealed, it is not just a matter of exploring a long gone city or collecting artifacts – a mysterious terror is unleashed that will affect those on the expedition for the rest of their life.
What you find out is not for the faint of heart – especially because it is all true!Some may not know that Douglas Preston is the Brother of Richard Preston (author of The Hot Zone: The Terrifying True Story of the Origins of the Ebola Virus ).
This is why the legend of the White City runs so deep in the Honduran national psyche: It's a direct connection to a pre-Columbian past that was rich, complex, and worthy of remembrance.a story about the politics between archeologists, which from an outside perspective looks a lot like jealousy on the part of the people who didn't discover the Lost City of the Monkey God directed at the people who did than it does legitimate differences between academics; a brief but uncomfortably vivid history of the US in Honduras which kind of makes you feel like it may be more than time for the American empire to just, you know, stop with that shit now; and new technology in the form of lidar stabilized by a kind of top secret electronic gyroscope that pings lasers at the spaces between leaves to reflect back the features of the ground beneath them.
Douglas Preston was reporting on the search for the ruins of an ancient civilization, nicknamed the White City, or the Lost City of the Monkey God. In 2015, researchers used technology called LIDAR to scan the interior, and when they found potential evidence, Preston was part of the group that went deep into the jungle to investigate.Trigger warning: If you are scared of snakes, this book will make you FREAK OUT.
I'd break the book down like this: 30 percent archaeology, 30 percent snakes, 30 percent terrifying diseases.
Which still sounds like it might be interesting, but actually turns out to be like watching a slow survivalist show on TV, interspersed with periods of fumbling amateur descriptions of artifacts and academic theories.At points, the author also mentions people critical of the narrative of this team "discovering" the "Lost City of the Monkey God," e.g., people who want to talk about "issues such as those of colonialism, white supremacy, hypermasculinity, fantasy and imagination [and] indigenous rights," all things that are obviously present in the book.
As a longtime fan of the Pendergast series that Douglas Preston writes together with Lincoln Child was I curious to read this non-fiction book about a lost city.
And, what makes this book so fantastic is that Douglas Preston himself was part of the expedition to what could be White City or the Lost City of the Monkey God. A place where no one has been for centuries, a place with a lot of deadly creatures like the deadly fer-de-lance, one of the most deadly snakes on the planet.The Lost City of the Monkey God captivated me from the beginning, Preston has written a well-researched book, which gives the reader both the historical background as well as the impressions from the expedition.
I'm just not that interested in technical things so stuff like that always makes me a bit bored.
These previously unexplored sites are now in danger of looting, deforestation and tourism and a debate on how to explore and protect them can be daunting for all concerned.I read this on Kindle and there were quire a few pictures at the end of the book but am sure the quality would be much better with a hard copy.An interesting and informative book that I really enjoyed and I will be keeping this site on my radar as the exploration is on-going and I am sure we will hear more from The City of the Monkey Gods and Doug Preston.
In The Lost City of the Monkey God, Douglas Preston presents an engaging account of an expedition setting out to (re)discover a lost city in the jungles of Honduras (the White City or City of the Monkey God).
However, comparing his expedition with the one 80 or so years earlier allows him to discuss scientific advancements (especially of lidar) which will revolutionize the field.
Despite any advancements, adventure and danger go hand-in-hand during Preston's expedition.
The expedition had to overcome impenetrable jungle, quickmud, one of the world's most aggressive and deadly snakes, the fer-de-lance, and disease carrying insects.
4.5 starsFor centuries rumors swirled about an abandoned ancient settlement in the jungles of Honduras, a region called 'The White City of the Monkey God.' The remains of the White City was reputed to contain gold, priceless cultural artifacts, and the remnants of temples and buildings - a veritable cornucopia for treasure hunters, archaeologists, and anthropologists.
Obstacles to success included ignorance of the city's exact location, impassable jungles, venomous snakes, biting and stinging insects, jaguars, and - in recent times - narcotraficantes (drug cartels).Then, in 2012, documentary filmmaker Steve Elkins got the idea to use LIDAR - a type of radar that uses laser beams - to look for the White City.
The first third of the book tells how documentary filmmakers Steve Elkins and Bill Benenson have spent 20+ years searching for the "White City".
If you have read any books on entering tropical rain forests you know they are fraught with dangers, while I appreciate the amount of time, effort and money invested in this project I am not wholly convinced that it is the riveting tale we are lead to believe we are getting.
From here Preston, takes off on a tangent about how those in the archaeology of Central America community attacked their expedition because Elkins billed it as finding the LOST "White City" which they (archaeologist) believe is a myth.
Definitely one of the best books I read in 2017. This is an incredibly fascinating and detailed book involving science, history, and adventure. Highly recommended.
The beginning of the book goes into previous expeditions to areas near this city and the problems faced due to the fact that Honduras can be a very dangerous country.
However, the actuality of exploring such an area means exposing oneself to thousands of dangers from extremely deep mud, insects of all kinds, snakes and even jaguars, to name just a few.
I recommend  The Lost City of the Monkey God  to anyone interested in learning more about Honduras, the city and the history of the world, in general.
Special thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review.It's no secret that I love Douglas Preston.
Lost temples, jungle treks, scary wildlife, special teams going in to discover the past...
I know it's a non-fiction weaving of historical detail into modern day adventure memoir, but the last few chapters focus solely on the deadly and scary disease that affects much of the third world, and hit many of the explorers.
In the twentieth century there were several expeditions to locate this lost city.
Using an advanced laser-imaging technology called LIDAR they were able to penetrate the dense jungle canopy to detect man-made anomalies at two locations.
The LIDAR images were sufficient to obtain funding to explore the sites.
I had heard stories about the impact when the Old World and New World collided and how disease wiped out many of the indigenous tribes.
The book ends with a warning about climate change and the increased danger of pandemics as the world is shrinking and a disease is only a plane ride away from any civilization.
The Lovely Cotinga, that's why (have a look at http://www.sabrewingtours.com/hondura...
You see, in addition to the anthropological research and the jungle exploration (poisonous snakes, hip deep mud, and unremitting rain, anyone?) there ends up being a fair amount of discussion of insect-bourne disease.
But that's not the way things are.Now, I am one of those people that biting insects adore.
In fact, I was just at a family reunion and I think I heard everyone say at some point, "Oh, mosquitoes love me!" So apparently it is a family trait and as I sat in their attractive midst, I did get only 3-4 mosquito bites.
Sorry, Lovely Cotinga!
Wow, well this had a little bit of everything! Archeological adventure story, ancient culture history, Honduras politics, revelations about lesser-known diseases and more. Loved it from beginning to end.
I was expecting a non-fiction adventure story told by one of my favorite thriller authors, but this book really covers a lot more territory than that.
The beginning of this book describes a lot of failed and fraudulent expeditions searching for the city.
Some of the explorers not only didn't find the city but weren't even looking for it but were searching for gold instead.
At this point, the book became the adventure story I was expecting.
It appears that the entire civilization vanished virtually at once.After the explorers left the jungle, several members of the team developed a parasitic disease, about which I would have preferred not to hear.
Preston has not only researched his subject thoroughly (a lost/haunted city in Honduras) but lived its present-day discovery.
The lost city is central to Honduran First Nations (as a Canadian would describe it) history and as such, adds an entire new dimension to the country's culture.
The opening paragraphs will pull in many readers, as they did me.Highly recommended to thriller, mystery, and suspense readers, and to all interested in Central American (and North American) history--and to those who study diseases.
Rumors of ancient lost cities awaken in us dreams of making great archeological discoveries and finding buried treasure, but as is so often the case, these are only to be achieved by most of us through a vicarious armchair adventure like this one!
Preston describes the arduous process of preparing landing sites for the helicopters, flying in people and equipment, setting up camp and finally doing some actual unearthing of artifacts.
Preston's book also includes some historical background and tales of earlier adventurers that I'm sure you will find as interesting as I did.
3.5 stars.THE LOST CITY OF THE MONKEY GOD: A True Story, by Douglas Preston is a nonfiction account of an expedition to the deepest jungles of Honduras, in an attempt to find the legendary "White City", or "The Lost City of the Monkey God".I am familiar with this author through his fictional works mainly, including his collaborative efforts with Lincoln Child.
If anyone could make a true story of this incredible find come alive on the pages, it is Douglas Preston.
Overall, the book's section on them being IN the actual jungle was so fluidly written that I felt as if I was watching it on a movie screen.
Takeaway: White people are an insensitive, self-aggrandizing, entitled lot, especially the American male ones. And that's how they got a curse.Note: The reader/listener is repeatedly told that archeology and paleontology are not nor and definitely not This story has a tinylittlebit of  (Theme song can be found here, in case you also loved singing that at the top of your voice when you were a hopelessly overwrought tween)Though, honestly, all the machete-whacking around in the jungle felt a lot l
Thankfully, Preston does touch upon this a few times and it was a bit of a balm to know that, yes, we should know better and that there are people out there who protest this kind of spoiled, dickish behavior.But, you know, what's done is done...so...TELL ME ABOUT IT!Some dude named Steve Elkins got all interested in the "lost" City of Monkey God and/or the famed Ciudad Blanca (White City), which were probably the same thing so he kept trying to find a way to fund an expedition to Honduras to find it.Note: The city wasn't lost to everyone in the area who knew it was there.

Most fun fact: North America has bananas because Jules Verne mentioned them in a book. This is an all encompassing story of a modern archeological discovery, from the first idea of the possibility to the remarkable results. It looks at history, modern technology, snakes, jungle, bugs, artifacts, and dangers of exploration. The last section on disease was most interesting. I'm a sucker for stories of archeological finds & discoveries therein. Medical history is also fascinating. This book covers both and a lot more. An interesting adventure. I listened to the audio version and enjoyed the narration.
An intriguing true story of a lost city in the jungles of Honduras. The book starts off strong with the history of the search for Cuidad Blanco. Then it moves on to the last few years and the latest search for the lost city. Preston does a great job of detailing their journey to the city. It's after they return home that the book starts to meander. We basically get dissertations on society and the role of Europeans on the downfall of New World civilizations.
I purchased an autographed copy.) If you think you're about to read an archaeological treatise on the discovery of a truly 'lost city' - a word true archaeologists hate - then fuhgeddaboudit.
His adventure-mystery-suspense books are great!
This is NOT Erik Larson - whose books I also love - or a renowned, 60-ish historian/anthropologist/archaeologist.
This book is written from the POV of a guy who knows words and knows suspense, but is actually just a regular guy so he writes about regular stuff.
(Archaeologists love to speculate on all this stuff, and argue, both among themselves and with people like Preston and the others who made this find.
This is the first non-fiction book I have read by Douglas Preston.
This being non-fiction and the concept - looking for a lost civilization in the jungle - fascinating.
The book starts off describing the many dangers of jungle explorations: insect-born parasites and snakes in endless variation.
The team Preston had few doses of anti-venin against the fearsome and aggressive fer-de-lance snake, there simply wasn't more to have.
Unless the haystack is teeming with snakes that look like hay and you have no possibility of burning any of it.
Preston and most of the rest of the crew, didn't get from the jungle unscathed.
This was about so much more than the Lost City--it was packed with information, presented in a palatable way and even tone. I feel stupidly excited by how much I learned and how incredibly interested I was in absolutely every facet of this discovery and the ripple effect of the exploration itself.
The Lost City of the Monkey God is a fascinating look at the spectacle, the science, and the politics of twenty-first-century archaeology.
After all, no matter how interested they may be in the history and the scientific techniques, I daresay most readers will be picking this up primarily for the spectacle of a mythical lost city, hidden deep inside the deadly Honduran rain forest, filled with treasures not seen in over a thousand years.As for the science, those who so casually dismiss The Lost City of the Monkey God because of the spectacle are doing themselves a massive disservice.
