https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23719378-girl-waits-with-gun
This book was so great for me!
This is a rarity because I'm not a historical fiction fan.
There are also early 1900's New York City thugs thrown in that truly add some fun to this story!I loved all three Kopp sister's, but I just adored the main character who was telling the story in first person narration, Constance!
Very easy to read and get into and the book flows smoothly throughout.
That's unusual for me but I was completely absorbed in this book.
If you like historical fiction, or if you are like me and dabble in it, I highly recommend it!
How would three girls in a buggy incite an oncoming automobile to plow directly into them?" I LOVE THE KOPP SISTERS!
WE LOVE HIM, too!"Frances Kopp and wife Bessie lived in a neighborhood of modest thoroughly modern bungalows in Hawthorne".
Frances didn't want to live like his sisters.
He wanted to sell the farm - felt it was a bad idea to leave his sisters alone in the country.
"Harry Kaufman, Silk Dryer, of Paterson, crashed his automobile into the buggy of the Kopp sisters.
Armed men began to prowl around the house after dark, and shots were fired to terrorize them.
"I would stand on the corner all night with a gun if that's what it took to keep those men away from her." ("her" being the youngest spitfire (and beauty) of a sister Fluerette) (view spoiler)[(who, if truth be known, is really the daughter of Constance) (hide spoiler)]Based on real events and real people, this historical work of fiction set in 1914 all begins with a crash involving hooligans who think they can sleaze their way out of trouble resorting to brick-letters and shots fired in the dark of night....not to mention kidnapping, but that's another story, and with Sheriff Heath on the job and the sisters all "packin" well it turns out to be quite an adventure that all comes to a somewhat predictable, but possible sequel-ish (I hope) end.Now, there are two sentences in this story I did not like: "I don't like cats" and a "Neither do I" but I got over it.
I didn't know Girl Waits with Gun was based on a true story until I read the acknowledgements at the end.
It read very much like fiction -- good fun fiction.
The book tells the story of the three Kopp sisters, who lived on their own in rural New Jersey in the early 20th century.
The sisters' background is complex and interesting, and the story highlights the challenges for women trying to live independently in the early 20th century.
Although the characters are drawn with fairly broad strokes, I found myself really liking them -- especially Constance, her sisters and the local Sheriff.
"When I allowed myself to think about the brevity of the time ahead of me, and the futility of spending any more of it on cooking and mending and gardening, it frightened me so much that I almost couldn’t breathe."Constance Kopp is a woman ahead of her time.
When Constance and her two sisters make the unfortunate acquaintance of Henry Kaufman, owner of Kaufman’s Silk Dyeing Company, life will become anything but dull.
The fact that Constance Kopp truly existed is intriguing enough to make me want to learn more about her life.
Three Kopp sisters: Constance, Norma, and Fleurette.
The Kopp sisters don't take such wild behavior lightly, especially Constance.
The safety and well being of the sisters is at stake here as the men retaliate in very dangerous and life-threatening ways.Amy Stewart presents a highly entertaining, while gripping, read.
Constance leads with an extremely well-developed brain and intellect thanks to the actual true-to-life Kopp sisters.Stewart inserts a few zig and zag subplots into the mix and we're off to the races with a tasty storyline.
I believe that Amy Stewart has quite a hit with the Kopp sisters at her side.
The Hook - The cover   and title. Little did I know the truth of the latter?The Line – ”In my mind, Henry Kaufman existed only in those moments when I had seen him, and the rest of the time he was still and quiet, like a marionette hung backstage by his strings, motionless until someone took him up and sent him skittering back to life.”The Sinker – Girl Waits With Gun is a delightful romp. In the summer of 1914, the sisters Kopp set out in horse and carriage on a mundane trip to purchase mustard
Little did I know the truth of the latter?The Line – ”In my mind, Henry Kaufman existed only in those moments when I had seen him, and the rest of the time he was still and quiet, like a marionette hung backstage by his strings, motionless until someone took him up and sent him skittering back to life.”The Sinker – Girl Waits With Gun is a delightful romp.
For a behind the scenes look at the real characters visit http://www.amystewart.com/characters/(view spoiler)[In an effort to not give too much away I have left out many other fine characters in Girl Waits With Gun. I particularly liked The Singer Man who plays an integral part and is described in these two passages:pg.
Finally, Constance can face her past and embrace a new chapter in her life, which would help pave the way for women to have a career in law enforcement and proving herself to be an inspiration, while showing compassion and determination in seeing justice done.
Constance harbors some shocking secrets by 1914 standards, and so has retreated to a quiet farm life, living with her sisters.
Constance is my hero, but all the sisters are distinctive, and play a huge part in how things play out.
The situation escalates into blackmail and violent threats, as Constance stands firm and seeks to protect herself and her sisters, while remaining independent.The book is based on a true story - Kopp and Kaufman really did have their legal battle; Kopp really was the victim of threats and harassment, and she really did become one of the first American female police deputies.
Amy Stewart has provided a fascinating archive of photos and newspaper articles about these characters on her website: http://www.amystewart.com/characters/However, I felt that the book draws out a small story a bit too much.
I remember when this book first came out and everyone was reading it. I let it slip by because I thought it was a feminist western, and, okay, I had it wrong. I enjoyed this story of the Kopp sisters, especially Constance, the woman-turned-detective/police-assistant.
My rating: 3.5 of 5 stars He looked up and said, in a loud, plain voice, “She’s not a regular lady.” Indeed, Constance Kopp was quite a woman for her time. Constance Amelie Kopp was born in 1878 and as an adult was recorded as being six feet tall. Yes, Constance Kopp was a real-life woman and is credited as being one of America’s first female deputy sheriffs. Little is known of the women but what is known paints a most interesting picture. Amy Stewart gathered as much information as she could an
Yes, Constance Kopp was a real-life woman and is credited as being one of America’s first female deputy sheriffs.
Not willing to lay down and accept this, Constance goes to the police with the hope that she can put her trust in them to put a stop to the menace in their lives.Girl Waits With a Gun was an unexpected delight for me but was much more slower paced than I would have figured.
She was quite an inspiring individual and I do hope we haven’t seen the last of Constance Kopp.
A novel based on the forgotten true story of one of the nation’s first female deputy sheriffs.The blurb describes the book the best:Constance Kopp doesn’t quite fit the mold.
When the sheriff enlists her help in convicting the men, Constance is forced to confront her past and defend her family — and she does it in a way that few women of 1914 would have dared.Reading it as a fictional biography (or biographical fiction), or a novel based on a true story, makes a difference in the approach to the book.
The title of the book comes from an actual newspaper headline from 1914 when Constance took part in a sting operation to help capture the men who were threatening her family.A collision between a buggy carrying the three Kopp sisters and an automobile driven by the gangster Henry Kaufman was the start of a year of terror.
Henry and his gang of thugs sent threatening letters by "brick mail" through the windows of the sisters' New Jersey isolated farmhouse, escalating the dangerous attacks as the year progressed.The book is full of interesting characters and a family secret, loosely based on history.
Historical fiction can be tricky.
It's tough to pull together something that is historically authentic, in addition to the usual fiction requirements of being plausible and a good story.
It's based on events that actually happened around a hundred years ago.I just couldn't get excited about this story though.
And in the end, the events didn't seem to add up to an entire book-worthy story.
Still, the writing in this one and her non-fiction is addictive, so I'll be looking for her next book, whether fact or fiction.
Nothing extraordinary with the writing - won't be continuing this series and probably not the author's other works either (no offense - the real story is 170% more interesting than this book).Full review:Constance Kopp was a real life woman who also happened to be the first female deputy.
I love reading about extraordinary women in history - the innovators, the way-pavers, and so on.The unfortunate thing is that this book was far too long and bloated for the story it had, and the characters and writing were not good enough to make me forgive it for being long and bloated and boring.
It's 1914, an era where women are expected to stay home and take care of the family.
Already, the Kopp sisters are an anomaly—rather than move in with their brother, Francis, they opt to live on their own on the family farm following their mother's passing.
Constance Kopp finds herself traveling around New Jersey and New York, gathering whatever information she can to make sure this well-to-do menace is put in jail.The Kopp sisters aren't your average turn-of-the-century women, and from the start you love their brash and seemingly unladylike personalities.
It's women like these who paved the way for the rest of us.Also: Kudos to the cover artist, because this book is gorgeous.
A great read, a novel based on true life character Constance Kopp and her two sisters.
Constance and her sisters are under attack by a local silk mill owner and his cronies, and this book documents the case and all of what happened from their initial confrontation with these men and the final resolution to her case, as well as another case that involves the same man.
Really enjoyed this book and it is a testament to Constance and her ability to never give up and see things to a resolution.
For a change, a VERY short review... This was recommended to me by a GR friend and I say, Thank you so much! The summary describes the nuts and bolts, the cover is delightful but I needed a push. If someone asked me about this crazy, delightful, endearing novel, I would say: "It's ANNE OF GREEN GABLES for GROWNUPS!" Mystery, same time period, headstrong women, klutzy and smart, orphans, farms... So, just go read it!!!
When the three Kopp sisters drove into town, they had no idea it would unleash a crazy chain of events and a world of trouble.
Constance Kopp kept after Henry Kaufman for restitution, their funds were limited and it was only right that he should compensate the sisters, but she had no idea how aggressive, antagonistic and dangerous he would be.
Kaufman and his goons threatened their lives, set fire to their home, threw bricks through their windows, and shot bullets around the isolated family farm where sisters lived by themselves.
If you picked it up because of the cover (if anything, that's Fleurette, not Constance, and she didn't get nearly so much freedom with the gun) or the blurbs you'd likely be disappointed, but we all know that you're not supposed to judge etc.
First your ankle.''I meant the boots.'That's when I knew Fleurette would survive." And that's when the reader, in the first four pages, without any blah blah about "This is who Fleurette is" nonetheless knows exactly who Fleurette is.
This is based on the real life of Constance Kopp and her two sisters, Norma and Fleurette.
The story opens with an automobile running into the Kopp sisters' buggy and causing considerable damage.
Kaufman is not cooperative at all and Constance goes after him with an invoice.
The main story though is Constance's search for justice amid Kaufman's unrelenting attacks against her.
It really points out how little resources women had in those times.
The sense of time in this book is excellent and makes you appreciate how far we've come in power and amenities.
He looked up and said, in a loud, plain voice, “She’s not a regular lady.” This book was delightful and witty and charming and definitely makes my list of favorites for 2015. It's reminiscent of Cinnamon and Gunpowder, but with a tighter, sharper historical context. The characters are based on real people - this is actual historical fiction! - and I'm impressed that Amy Stewart was able to write such a quickly-moving, entertaining story based on real events. This format can force authors into f
Constance attempts to collect the money they're owed - the sisters can't afford to lose the money given that they're living on savings on their farm - and the embarrassed silk man starts a targeted harassment campaign.
It's incredible how little protection the law is able to provide them, and it's a fascinating read purely to see the historical strictures that the Kopp sisters functioned within.
She's an extraordinary woman, and it's only her own resolve and strength - growing throughout the book - that allow her to pursue the justice that the Kopps are owed.The relationship between the sisters is fantastic.
Girl Waits with Gun - such a wholesomely unique, cheeky good read.
After visiting the author's web page - www.amystewart.com - which includes photos and mini bios of real-life people and events within the story - I was even more impressed.
Other aspects of the book I found delightful, in no certain order, are: dual story-lines converging into one; cheeky, unpretentious dialogue; atmospherically transporting; historically enlightening regarding work ethics, politics and law enforcement, and gender equality.Plus, it's just darn good reading!
Four **** PLEASANTLY FEISTY, WHOLESOMELY FUN **** StarsOh, and I'm looking forward to the sequel due out in fall: Lady Cop Makes Trouble.
First Sentence: Our troubles began in the summer of 1914, the year I turned thirty-five.Constance Kopp and her two sisters live on a farm in New Jersey.
But refusing to pay damages is not only crime of which Kaufman and his gang are guilty.It’s always a pleasure to come across a book based on real people and cases, and Constance Kopp someone one can’t help but like from the outset.
It’s a perfect blend of fact as a basis for fiction.GIRL WAITS WITH GUN (Hist Mys-Constance Kopp-New Jersey-1914) - VG+	Stewart, Amy – 1st of series	Houghton Mifflin Harcourt – Sept 2015
The sheriff posts deputies at their home and finally manages to make Kaufman pay for the damages to the buggy but the terrorizing of the sisters in their home and town continue.
We also learn about the silk industry in New Jersey at the time and the conditions under which the workers toil.This is a top notch historical fiction read with most of the story based on facts.
If you choose to read the book please be sure to check out Amy Stewart’s website as there are pictures of New Jersey during this time period along with pictures of the real Constance Knop who became one of the first female deputies in New Jersey.
This was not at all what I expected it to be. It's not a perfect book, but it was a weirdly pleasant one (and I mean that in a good way!)Longer review to come...
When Henry Kaufman, a noted silk factory manager, rans into the buggy in which Constance Kopp and her sisters are riding, he causes an accident and flees the scene.
Constance Kopp is a brave, feisty and tough woman.
In a time period (the narrative takes place in the early 1900's) where women were seen but not heard, Constance was expected to be meek and keep her head down (still would have towered over any man or woman at six feet tall).
She took on one of the most powerful man with the aid of sheriff Heath.
The main character, Constance Kopp, is hilarious in her inner musings and in her dialogue.
Of course, being historical fiction and written with much research, it could be assumed that Constance would have needed to be indomitable to become the country’s first Deputy Sheriff.
This attention to detail makes the novel amusing because, well, it’s REAL!!The three Kopp sister characters are enjoyable in their own individual way.
Each sister has her own unique personality that Stewart wrote in a way that the characters play off each other in fun dialogue.
If Stewart writes another Constance Kopp caper, I’m definitely reading it, even if it’s pure fiction.
Constance Kopp and her two sisters live a life of seclusion on a remote farm just outside of Paterson, NJ.
There is so much I love about this story and just one thing that I don't.
Girl Waits with Gun is loosely based on the true story of Constance Kopp who was one of the very first female police officers in the United States.
I love that the story is essentially small, Constance doesn't save the world, she just does her best to save her family.
Still it really is worth it just for the three Kopp sisters.
This was a great palate cleanser book after some intense reads. I adored the Kopp sisters, especially our heroine Constance. She is tough, funny, and altogether human. I couldn't help but see the current relevance of the story's themes, including powerful people taking advantage of those who have much less. Amy Stewart blends history, mystery, and humor effortlessly. I'm already reading book two!Full review at TheBibliophage.com.
