https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/291225.The_Film_Sense
إيزنشتين بجانب كونه مخرج عظيم هو أفضل العاملين بالسينما الذين كتبوا عنها ونظروا لها.
ما يجعل قراءة إيزنشتين ممتعة هو بالأساس رؤيته الشاملة للفن، فعنده لا توجد حدود فاصلة بين السينما والموسيقى والتصوير بل وحتى الأدب.الجزء الخاص بالتماس بين السينما والأدب رائع، أحيانا يبدو العرض غير مقنع ولكن جاذبية الفكرة والتنفيذ - في أفلامه - ممتعين.
الجزء الخاص بالموسيقى لا يقل أهمية وإمتاعا، ولكن مع عدم وجود ثقافة موسيقية سيكون من الصعب استيعاب الأفكار المعروضة.طالما تمنيت أن يتاح لإيزنشتين الحرية الكاملة لتنفيذ أفكاره وتطويرها من خلال إخراجه للأفلام - مشروعه لإخراج كتاب رأس المال لماركس كان سيكون تحدي كبير وفرصة لمشاهدة تحفة سينمائية.
The book is a great gateway in the thinking of the great Eisenstein. It shows a beautiful method of thinking AND practice with a lot of valuable references and examples.The part where he dissects the score that affects the image is super interesting, however having seen the film is preferable.The film, Aleksandar Nevsky (1938) is a classic Soviet film in all its pathos and theatrical sense. It is dated, but it is still spectacular. A lot of the criticism that Eisenstein expresses towards other films could be backed up by his film because the fight scenes and montage are exquisite.
This book is totally outdated, though it's talk about the basics of storytelling, it dies so in a very old and unnecessarily difficult manner.
When I was writing poetry (must get back to that!) I was very much inspired by Sergei Eisenstein's "The Film Sense." His thoughts on montage clearly made sense to me as a writer. The fact that you can add something and another thing which equals something else was incredibly inspiring. Although this book is geared towards the making of films, I think a writer can pick up on it and use this text as something practical for their work (writings).
So I know Eisenstein is a vital component of film theory, but man, he is a little hard to read. You really only need one parenthetical phrase per sentence, if that. I don't know how much of it is his writing and how much of it is the translation, but it's a bit of a slog. Topics covered include film as a language, the role of film to tell stories, and the ever important component of montage in film and in all the arts.
The Film Sense is a book that will be an awesome read for any kind of artist (writer, musician, actor, painter, etc.) for it approaches the art of filmmaking and montage from each and every of the other arts using information/theories from other artists and some very interesting pieces of historical information.
Basically is about editing, but it really helps you to understand why is it so important to be careful even before production just so that editing will be easier. Great book, though I expected more from Eisenstein...
Todos os aspectos do filme, desde a relação entre palavra e imagem, a sincronização dos sentidos, as cores e seus significados e a correspondência entre forma e conteúdo. Uma aula do mestre Eisenstein.
I read Eisenstein's Book; very interesting notes on "Cinema".
