https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37303.Silent_Prey
Relief from the tedium comes when a serial killing psycho that Lucas had caught escapes from jail during his trial and heads to New York where he embarks on a splashy murder spree.
Lily has been investigating the possibility that a group of NYPD officers have been killing career criminals, and another cop was murdered when he started closing in on identifying some of them.
Under the guise of hunting the serial killer, Lily wants to put Lucas with some of the cops suspected of being part of the group to see what he can shake loose.
I never bought Lily as a serious love interest for Davenport and Bekker was not a great villain.
The “Robin Hood” storyline seemed to be a last minute add like the author didn’t make his page count and needed something to add some more time/pages to the story.
The author introduced this storyline fairly quickly but then it was only discussed a few more times until the climatic ending.
I guess after reading the other books I was expecting more.I still love the Davenport character though and wasn’t disappointed in the switch to New York as other reviewers were.
The final two disks of this 10 disk story are well worth the listen. Its too bad the previous 8 are mostly about dirty cops, New York and an untouchable maniac killer. Davenport plays mostly a second banana hick in the big Apple. Apparently, Sanford saves his best Davenport stories for Minnesota and Wisconsin locales. 4 of 10 stars
It still had its good parts and Davenport is a fun character to read but overall it was my least favourite in be series.Bekker escapes from prison and is hiding out in New York.
Add into that there are some vigilantes ridding the streets of criminals which Davenport has been asked to look into then it leads to a pretty hectic time.
To me the whole Bekker angle wasn't necessary and the vigilante angle would have been more interesting especially in a different location.
I'm tempted to try a couple of the books just to see what they're like but audiobook is a good option for this series.
That's not to say that I didn't like it, but inevitably in any long-running series, I suppose, one book has to be the best and another has to be the worst, even if they are all quite good.At the end of the book that preceded this one, Sandford's protagonist, Lucas Davenport, was forced to leave the Minneapolis police force.
Davenport is as tough and as witty as usual, but he's also something of a fish out of water in the big city, and this book is missing the usual cast of characters that surrounds Lucas.
Do I have to?Luckily, Sandford is compelling enough that this was still a good read, no matter how much I resented having to spend another book in the company of Michael Bekker, the eye-obsessed serial killer from the preceding book.
(view spoiler)[It's a bonus that that's how Kennett knows Lucas is a force to be reckoned with: this is a guy who won't let go and won't be satisfied with not knowing.
I was concerned about this book from the lukewarm reviews, but I liked it a lot.
Yes, he recycled the villain from the last book, but the other underlying thread of police vigilantes made up for it.
It was a bit predictable, especially at first, but a reveal in the middle picked it up.
His lack of direction & the way he viewed NYC were great.I finished this while working on the kids' portable rabbit run & started the next since I didn't want to take the time to figure out a different book or direction.
His other assignment is hunting bad cops.It’s ironic that Davenport is assigned to do an Internal Affairs-type job, as he himself was, in the past, the subject of many an IA investigation for police brutality and on-the-job behavioral misdeeds.
Petty had been investigating a number of unsolved murders that he was sure had all been committed by a group of vigilante cops.
Davenport is a series detective that has actually grown and matured throughout the series, and it has made the series better.“Silent Prey” is the best of Davenport series that I have read so far.
From chapter 1, you can smell the author's apparent addiction to ugliness. No thanks
'Silent Prey' continues with the serial killer Bekker who has escaped custody while on trial for his crimes, and I think it is a better read if you read 'Eyes..' first.
Bekker begins again with his quest to scientifically catch the last vision seen by dying people by exsanguinating his victims, also again in New York City, but without the distractions of maintaining any kind of normalcy as he had in Minneapolis.
The real reason Davenport is in town is NYPD has become aware of vigilante killings by members of the police and there is no one in the City's police dapartment that can be trusted to solve these crimes.
Billed as the revenge story of the previous novel's villain, I had no particular interest; Bekker was a character, I felt, not deserving of a return appearance.
(As an aside, the author states that at book signings he is one of the two villains mentioned most; shows what I know.) Silent Prey involves so much more.
Bekker’s escape to New York allows an old colleague and love interest the opportunity to enlist Lucas Davenport’s help on two fronts: outwardly to recapture Bekker; and secretly to help uncover a deeper problem.
The concurrent investigations keep Lucas busy and the reader engrossed.
I find that the Lucas Davenport novels can be a hit or a miss.
The team in NYC calls in Davenport to try to catch him, as well as investigate who is the "Robin Hood" of the police department, someone who is taking murderers into their own hands and killing them.
I'm happy that there was enough clues from the author of what happened in the previous novels since I tend to get books mixed up.
Since the killer continues, you need to read this series from the beginning.It was a surprise ending on who Robin Hood was in the police department.
Lucas Davenport no longer works for the police department in Minneapolis but has been requested by the NYPD pertaining to a previous case of his; Michael Bekker.
He's now in New York and continuing his killing spree.
The only person that was able to capture him before was Lucas.There are other reasons he's wanted in New York.
They've labeled him or her as Robin Hood.
Robin Hood is believed to be an NYPD cop.They take Lucas to be an country cop and underestimates his skills until it's too late and he's got them in his crosshairs.
Lucas Davenport gets a call and request from the NY Police Department to help them, Bekker has moved to New York and has begun killing once again.
At the same time there are persons killing mostly bad people, and a few good ones who get in the way, that the police want caught.
Lucas is put into harms way by the police in hopes of catching the team of killers under the guise of searching for Bekker.This is another of Sandford's great Prey books, his plots and pursuits are great.
Silent pray begins where the 3rd novel ends. Lucas is looking to do something as he has a lot of time on his hands. The serial killer escapes and of course Lucas has to help capture him. Of course it's easier said than done. Truly thrilling ride as we navigate what happens next. If you love thrillers, this is a must read.
Another great entry in the series. I am slowly working my way up. Recommended.
A short take:I had high hopes for this installment, given Davenport's free-wheeling status, the NYC setting and the return of Bekker.
Unfortunately, the different criminal elements that Sandford throws into the rung don't get together, and the book doesn't entertain at nearly the same pitch that Eyes of Prey did.
More thoughts:I'm bummed that Sandford used the setting to dump on NYC for its filth and hectic pace.
The way Sandford describes it, no one wants to be here.
I hear tell that Winter Prey, the next book, is awesome, so I'm looking forward to that.
In John Sandfords Book Silent prey a Killer named Becker is back and escaped from his jail cell with vengeance on his mind.Detective Lucas Davenport must find him before he once again starts killing and taking the eyes of his prey .
Becker has a plan and though twisted he manages to keep killing and hiding in a place no one would ever think to look for him .
Lucas is missing something, because Becker should be easy to find but no one is looking in the right direction and people keep ending up dead.
At least my 2nd time through Lucas' adventures. This time, the former Minnesota investigator is asked by NYC police to help locate Mad Dog Bekker after he escaped from court. Gruesome corpses start piling up, and Lucas knows he's really supposed to look for a vigilante cop group taking out bad guys, who also have their sights set on serial killer Bekker. Davenport juggles former flame Lilly, a current NY love interest, and tons of in-house police double-dealing, politics and intrigue.
I looked for a copy of this one for a long time, somehow I missed it in the long line of Davenport novels. I finally read it and realize I didn't miss much. Bekker escapes and moves to New York, still a nutbag. Davenport is called in to help but there is another reason why he gets involved. Just ok. 2 Stars
This was ok, not one of my fave’s - it's about a female politician hiring two hit-men as body guards and having them eliminate anyone who gets in her way. Lucas Davenport is right behind her. Predictable. Plenty of bodies dropping as usual. Not a bad read, but I wasn't drawn into any of the characters much, not even the good guys.
Fourth in the Lucas Davenport thriller series based in Minneapolis, and revolving around an ex-cop. This story takes place in New York City, two years after  Eyes of Prey , 3, and fulfills the promise in its introduction *shudder*.My TakeThis is horrifying. Sandford sets the mood with the courtroom and the horror the prosecutor feels about Bekker, and it only gets worse with this brilliant mad man. The worst of it is that I keep expecting Bekker to go off the rails and screw up…and he never does
Sandford sets the mood with the courtroom and the horror the prosecutor feels about Bekker, and it only gets worse with this brilliant mad man.
The StoryRemembering Lucas’ charisma with the media, Lily Rothenburg talks her boss into pulling Lucas into their investigation in New York City.
Rick and Stephanie are Lucas’ helpful neighbors.New York City PDThe now-divorced Captain Lily Rothenburg is currently working with a deputy commissioner, John O’Dell.
Lily is seeing someone new, a guy a lot like Lucas, Dick Kennett from Intelligence, and he’s running the Bekker case.
Good thing I have read several of the Davenport series later books. This one would almost make me quit reading them. This was the worst of all the Sandford books I have read. I really dislike Bekker as it was bad enough to read one book him about let alone two. Lucas' personality was totally missing and appeared to have been given to Kennett for the duration of this book. Lily is a cool person and was left floundering. I guess I was disappointed with this book is all.
Putting me in the head of Bekker as much as the author has these two book merely exhausted and annoyed me.I did not like Silent Prey because I was led all over the place with an assortment of characters guaranteed to make it hard for me to follow the story.
In Silent Prey, the main mystery (uncovering the mastermind of the vigilante group) is overwhelmed by a truckload of details and red herrings that I gave up halfway trying to follow each one.In the end, I picked the story up again at the last quarter and found my abridged version gave me just as good a story!
It's still too far up inside the head of the killer Michael Bekkar for my tastes, but it's a better mystery and investigation because this time Davenport isn't just on the trail of one killer, but is also caught up in a much tenser game between NYC cops over a run of vigilantism.The dual-tracking of the book works well here, as Davenport pursues two investigations simulataneously, different in nature but both with the same goal: catch a killer.
Instead of just seeing Batman chase down the killer, you get to see Davenport really have to work to figure out who is guilty and how.Might be the best Davenport book so far, and it'll keep me back for another ride.
Second Read: 09/26/16 - I think I liked the book more the first time than the second.
I do like the character of Lucas.
I could do without so much bad language, as it is quite rough.
John Sanford is a good writer.
I do like most of the things I've read of his quite well.
What a suspenseful book.
With a good partner, they got a lot of insider problems solved, and found the killer.
This one is a little grisly, and language is a little rough.
Depending on your taste in books, you might like this.
coulda been four, was not, as there are...transition problems.
reading along...fine...next sentence is a completely different scene setting this that the other.
coulda used some white space, maybe an asterisk or two, to set one off from the other.
as it was...it stopped the story for me, stopped the telling, while i took a step back to see what was going on.
still, a great story, this mad guy off his rocker...some twists.
one twist and i almost thought, sheesh, i'm (me, the reader) being fugged with here but i went with it, okay, yeah, sure, the feeling not leaving me entirely though it faded--the story is compelling, the fabled page-turner.anyway, good story.
3.5 Stars For some reason (and I can't quite put my finger on it) I didn't enjoy this book in the series as much as I have the previous books. Hopefully the next book in the series will prove to be a more engaging read once again.
"Silent" opens up shortly after the third book with serial killer Bekker escaping and fleeing to NYC.
However, Bekker has made his way to New York and is running wild with his ritualistic killings.
The brass really wants Davenport there as a distraction for the press to be consumed over Bekker's killings.
With Davenport sucking up a huge chunk of press and misdirecting, the NYPD has the pressure eased up to solve those confusing vigilante killings.
All Sandford fans most likely have read this one years ago.
Those just picking up his Davenport series will still enjoy, "Silent".
If I could, I would've rated this 3.5-3.75 because once it got moving in the last 100 pages it was definitely a page turner.
As a native Minnesotan, one of the things l like is that most of the stories take place in Minnesota.
This one immediately moves Davenport (who is no longer a cop) to New York.
No new villain as an old one escapes.
It just started off as a very slow moving story.True to form for a John Sanford novel, there were some big twists and it did eventually get moving.
I look forward to the next one!
