https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14318.Chronicles_Volume_One
I used to love Bob Dylan until he said, and I quote, 'If you have slave running through your blood or are a descent of the Ku Klux Klan, black people can sense that.
Next time, you better think twice before you insult an entire nation.
Croatian people are not barbarians.
*flips hair*Insult and false comparison aside, this man has talent.
(Bob Dylan with Johnny Cash.
Just because I can)This was not an easy book to read.
I wanted to know more about his relationship with Joan Baez.
I had to remind myself this was Bob, not exactly a touchy-feely kind of person.
Dylan the man disappears into the spaces he evokes, and then he emerges, startles one with some strange sentence or description, and then the earth is spinning on again, and he is immersed in discourses on folk songs, bars, cities, literature, politics, human nature, history, specifics of music theory, recording techniques, travels; the narrative is utterly non-linear, too; he leaps from memory to memory, associations taking him across decades, and this being the first of what is to be a three volume series, you can see Chronicles becoming this big time, shuffling, always-in-motion mosaic.It’s no surprise that the most literate of song writers loves books so much, and one of the early pleasures in Chronicles is Dylan discovering the books he was to adore, rifling through the libraries of different friends whose couches he happened to be crashing on.
But on the other hand I was no longer near enough to the sea which seemed to me not a living thing now, but fixed; I no longer felt any power beneath its colours, spread like those of a picture among the leaves, through which it appeared as inconsistent as the sky and only of an intenser blue.I don't think there can be any doubt that Bob had to have consciously taken these sentences and, with some revision, passed them off as his own.Another example is from a book that I imagine Dylan knows well, Huckleberry Finn:Every night we passed towns, some of them away up on black hillsides, nothing but just a shiny bed of lights; not a house could you see.
After being on my “to read” shelf for a while, this book jumped up a couple spots when Bob Dylan won the Nobel Prize for literature.
He didn’t win the prize because of this autobiography or for his novel, but rather for the lyrics he wrote down and then placed over music.
This autobiography is well written and honest, but it is disjointed at times and didn’t tell me much about the things I thought I wanted to know about.
Maybe I wouldn’t like his music if I knew too much about it, or him, and maybe that is something Bob Dylan knows — he did just win a Nobel Prize.
Positively Fraud Street?I see you on the streetI always act surprisedI say, “How does it feel?”But I

Whilst there may be an element of ‘Oh Mercy’ representing a period when Dylan got his song-writing muse back, a return to form of sorts – it is hard to see how this is truly deserving of such a lengthy section of the book – so many words dedicated to this.Far more successful for me are the passages describing the New York, folk / art / cultural scene of the early 1960’s and convey well what an inspirational and exciting time this must have been.
It made me think that the committee is probably quite old to do this, but also well aware of his lyrics, which I assume is the reason he wins.
I also read Paul Bryant's reviews of this book, the first of which, like mine originally, was very positive.
Then I saw Paul has read a lot of research identifying plagiarized passages, and have to process all this...
But I don't think he got the Nobel for this book, anyway, but for the lyrics, which I absolutely am ecstatic about!
Each phrase comes at you from a ten-foot drop, scuttles across the road and then another one comes like a punch on the chin.So goes Dylan on the marvel of Pirate Jenny, the haunting number by Brecht/Weill in their Three Penny Opera.
One of the documentaries on the Three Penny Opera relates Brecht's penchant for appropriation, "he stole, but with genius." I've heard many similar references to Picasso and it is simply coincidence that Dylan next speaks of Guernica and Pablo P after his rumination on Pirate Jenny.
Mark my words, this book is going to be considered as an American classic piece of literature.
Students in the year 2035 will study it, and young men wearing plastic rain coats will be holding this book as a fashionable prop in the most elegant nightclubs.
I didn't expect it to be so great.
What makes it so great is Dylan personal observations on the world around him.
The way he goes through his frirends' library was one of my favorite parts of the book as well as his observations on the craft and genius of Tiny Tim. It's a masterpiece.
I really want to talk with Dylan And it happened.
That's what it feels like when you get under the bed covers with this book, no sound but a cricket buzz outside the window.
His words come out at you like his music.
It feels like any minute that gravel voice will start whispering out of the pages to you.
A genius talking about his inspiration.
What more could you want?
So, what inspired him?
He's telling you about his life- and you feel like he's letting you in on a secret that only the two of you now know.
Îmi pare rău, nu.Am început cartea cu multă bunăvoinţa şi fără prejudecăţi, însă nu a reuşit să mă convingă.Nu ştiu dacă stilul stângaci şi mult prea neexersat trebuie pus pe seama autorului sau este o consecinţă a unei traduceri mai puţin fericite, însă mi s-a părut obositor şi, pe alocuri, enervant.
Niciodată nu am agreat abuzul de înşiruiri de nume proprii într-o singură frază, iar Dylan exagerează cu enumerările: nume de persoane, de străzi, de cluburi, de studiouri.
Pentru un profan, disconfortul este major.Îmi pare rău.
Aş fi fost bucuroasă să regăsesc măcar un argument "pro".N-a fost să fie, în ceea ce mă priveşte.
But this book is greatness.
He connects everything he is going through at the time of each chapter, and people he might have come across, music which changed things for him, the songs he was singing and later writing.
I think my favourite one is the one where he is recording Oh mercy, a record I had tried to listen to, because it is produced by another great: Daniel Lanois.
I think my favourite thing about the book, is that he doesn't really just speak about himself, but of his process, and he really is into seeing other people, the people surrounding him, or that maybe went by in his life.
Dylan's style of writing is very disjointed and can take some getting used to, but overall the book is very well written.
There is a segment on how he came to put together his album "Oh Mercy" which was very interesting but not one of his albums I was well versed in.
He does talk a great deal about all of his influences (the name dropping this man can do is unreal) and for me the book really shined when he talked about where he came from, how he discovered Woody Guthrie and his move from Minnesota to New York City.
Bob Dylan has ALWAYS and will forever continue (probably even at his death) to do things HIS OWN WAY!I read some of the reviews for this book.
Bob Dylan proved that with this book.
I am sure when the book came out almost 4 years ago, people thought "FINALLY he will give us a true picture of his life and influences!" And then they were bitterly disappointed.
Bob Dylan has always done things his owne way and refuses to be pigeon-holed into wherevever even his fans want him to be.
Once upon a time I played a mediocre rendition of "like a rolling stone," mostly because I fell in love with this lyric:You used to ride on the chrome horse with your diplomatWho carried on his shoulder a Siamese catAin't it hard when you discover thatHe really wasn't where it's atAfter he took from you everything he could steal.No idea where he comes up with this shit, but it's brilliant.
On writing Everything is Broken "The semantic meaning is all in the sounds of the words.
but then these places become broken, too, and can't be pieced back together." Tidbits like this, little insights into his creative process...
*********WANT BADLY**********Mother's Day is coming up! or for Birthday then, Xmas in July, Aussie Friend Day, Happy Person who does your laundry day, Day for people who will beg for books. Well any excuse will do - have loved Bob a long time....will even be embarrassing & pimp my photo here - of a time when I played his records over and over..
...su saiku apie save ir nemazai apie savo laikmeti...kas man ir patiko.p.s. na....visas avietes apsh..ko...paskaiciau goodreado draugu reviu apie sia knyga ir ...pasirodo Bobas nuplagijavo istisus pasazus is literaturos gigantu...http://ralphriver.blogspot.com/2006/0......bet zvaigzduciu nenuimsiu...tiek to jau. Ir dabar, rasant si komentara, pas mane skamba jo dainos...
He gives only glancing, arrogant mention to the days of his most prolific and brilliant songwriting--which is fine, it doesn't shatter my perception of Dylan to find him arrogant and evasive, but I do take umbrage with the boring minutia of the recording-studio process of two of his more mid-level works.
And if you're a Dylan fan, it might be worth checking out for those sections alone, as its a quick read, but don't expect anything earth-shattering.UPDATE: Re-read in September 2008 for a class.
That "Oh Mercy" section is still unbearable, though: his "discovery of a new singing technique" is total bullshit.
El cuarto capítulo lo dedica a narrar con pelos y señales la gestación de Oh, Mercy a finales de los ochenta y termina volviendo a sus primeros años en Nueva York.En fin, cuenta lo que le apetece y como le apetece.
Como dice Manrique, en unas páginas pasa de contar cómo duerme de prestado en los sofás de sus amigos a tener que adquirir un arma para defender a su familia del acoso de sus seguidores.
Dedica unas páginas a hablar de la biblioteca de unos amigos y sus conocimientos literarios parece que dejan mucho que desear (“Balzac es hilarante...”, p.
We already knew some we liked: Herman's Hermits, the Monkees, The Dave Clark Five, Tommy James and the Shondells, Sam the Sham and the Pharaohs:"What about this one?" My brother said, pointing to a sleeve with a guy with crazy curly hair; "Bobby Die-lon, I think that's the guy who sings 'Blue Velvet'; you like him." I rolled my eyes at the impossible retardedness of younger brothers who focused all their intellectual energy on baseball cards.
And if you like his words, but not his voice so much, especially in these latter years, well, this is the place for you, my friend.Oh, yeah, and there were people who called him Bobby....
Chronicles Vol. 1 has a few moments of insight concerning Dylan's musical influences and non-linear remembrances from his past, small vignettes that are often unrevealing in regards to the overall scope of the enigmatic artist's life.
There are other moments in his writing that fall apart quite spectacularly, especially as Dylan drones on endlessly about some new mathematical algorithm that freed him musically in the mid-80's, but which he mindlessly doesn't incorporate into his recollections of performances or in his recordings.
Dacă scriitorul japonez Haruki Murakami ar fi rămas, ca în tinereţe, proprietar al unui bar din Tokio în care se cânta jazz, ar fi avut mai multe şanse să câştige în acest an Premiul Nobel pentru Literatură.În 2016 Comitetul Nobel i-a atribuit Premiul Nobel pentru Literatură muzicianului Bob Dylan.Cărţile se citesc greu.Următorul laureat al Premiului Nobel pentru Literatură va fi Eminem.
„Toate se întâmplă mereu chiar în faţa ta, amestecate, şi trebuie să le distingi dacă vrei să pricepi ceva din ele”.Comitetul Nobel a distins povestea lui Bob Dylan.A distins-o cu Premiul Nobel pentru Literatură.Din această zi cărţile sunt mai aproape de toţi: copii, tineri, oameni.
I originally rated this two stars, but I had to take off a star after reading Paul Bryant's review detailing how much Dylan plagiarized.
It pains me that I have to add this book to my Nobel shelf.
I understand that the prize was awarded primarily for his song lyrics, but the Nobel is awarded for an author's entire body of work, and so this sad, meandering, cliched, plagiarized excuse for a book has received the highest honor of world literature.
I didn't completely hate this- I enjoyed reading about Dylan's encounters with famous artists, his opinions on their music, and his own approach to songwriting.
Dylan was never going to write a conventional biography, and readers who want one should keep on walking.
This isn't for them.Instead Dylan has constructed a mythology as autobiography.
And a number of allegations of plagiarism that the internet has levelled at him suggest that this is a story of his life during those periods, rather than an exact word-for-word transcript of those events.Having accepted these criteria for the autobiography, it's a fascinating book, certainly providing an insight into how he sees his own life, and more interestingly, into his state of mind while making the key album Oh Mercy.
An explanation of two stars is required here.
I found out from a goodreads friend that Dylan probably lifted a number of uncredited passages from other books and used them in Chronicles.
I think there are legitimate points that musicians lift passages all the time for song writing but when doing this while writing it doesn’t seem so cool.
BTW I am not judging anyone who might give this book a good review.
I don’t claim to have any moral high ground and I didn’t have a problem with the writing until I found about the allegations.
Knjiga je dosta dosadna. Ima lepih i zanimljivih misli, ali previše je nabrajanja gomile imena i bazičnih karakteristika likova koji su nosili ta imena, a koji su imali makar i manji dodir sa momentima koje Dylan opisuje. I opisi emicija i traženja pravog puta i izraza za pesme u New Orleans-u dok snima album, su vrlo naporni. Kada se izdigne iz takvih pojedinosti, ima vrlo lepih misli. Struktura knjige je interesantna, opisuje nekoliko faza Dylan-ovog života koje ne idu istorijskim redosledom, ali struktura ne ometa čitanje. Ako se nekako prevaziđe gomila detalja, ova (auto)biografska hronika je u principu zanimljiva.
Dylan writes as he sings: with honesty, passion and care for humanity.
Misunderstood as an artist, labeled on countless ocassions as something he didn't recognize himself lof being, you can think that people just don't get your message so maybe you're singing to the wrong crowd.
I was very pleased to see that Bob is also a pretty curious and well read man, a guy who values integrity, the idea of being humble, down to earth.
Some of the best autobiography I've read, equally disturbing and heart-breaking, but in Dylan's words you can see hope and ambition, like there's always a path that keeps you going, a dream waiting for your arrival.
It was written in a rambling form, rarely staying on topic unless it was something Dylan actually wanted to teach us about, and then, if that was the case, he could go on for pages detailing the composition of each song on a particular album or his music theory regarding his formula using common math and geometry in order to possibly make something from nothing.
One thing Dylan did not talk about in Chronicles Volume One was his making in 1972 of the fine Sam Peckinpah film Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid, providing songs and backing music for the movie, and playing the role of Alias, a member of Billy's gang.
He looks nothing like a man of stone, no high-strung temperament.
He looks nothing like a man with the hellhound on his trail.
I knew what those kind of songs were like and these weren’t them.
It’s not like I hadn’t any talent, I just wasn’t feeling the full force of the wind...
Now maybe he did consciously think this at the time.
In the chapters on his rise to stardom, he’s the prematurely old man in Poe’s ‘A Descent into the Maelstrom’, telling of how he lashed himself to a barrel, threw himself in and survived.
