https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5585.The_Creation_of_the_American_Republic_1776_1787
This was to be entrenched with the writing of the Constitution and the development of new political institutions where others (Montesquieu) had only theorized before.This, of course, led to Madison's ideal of the compound republic, popular sovereignty, the rule of law, separation of powers, discussions on the roles of conventions and referendums, etc.Of course, these ideal visions had a harsh collision with reality.
The question of representation between states led to the later struggles over popular sovereignty and the rights of the minority which led to the Civil War and beyond.
Wood tries to show how an entirely new way of political thought was created and spread in the ten turbulent years after independence, not just among a few thinkers, but among the whole American people.
The answer is that 10 years of highly refined discussion about the nature of colonial, state, and federal government made Americans perhaps the most experienced political thinkers to ever walk the earth.
Instead, even though the formal structure of a President, Senate, and House of Representatives was drawn from each of the same, respectively (the judiciary a derivative, not independent, function of the monarch, of course, as was too the English legislature - the King's Parliament), the idea was not to reflect the allocations of liberty in society but to diffuse the right - for which all [who counted, of course] were equally qualified - to exercise governmental power amongst different functions, and thus forestall easy dominance by any one faction of any sort (as Wood winks at the very end, hence the consolidation of political parties, not provided for in the federal constitution at all, soon after its conception).
Why did America revolt over voting rights, while people in England -- many of whom also did not have voting rights -- did not?Most interestingly for me, why did almost every state that formed its own Constitution after 1776 create a bicameral legislature with an upper and a lower house?
Some states had an upper house with stricter voting requirements so only richer people voted for it.
Some states had an upper house with stricter eligibility requirements for candidates, so everyone (who was a white man) voted but they could only vote for richer people.
But really, to get a sense of the ideological evolution of American politics before the Constitution was written, this might not be the best place to start.
It's written for elitist post-graduates; you know, the kind of book that purposefully tries to confuse undergraduate perfectionists and drive them crazy, so they'll follow up the readings with an agonizing amount of research, score poorer on papers, and be more miserable in general.
However, if you're experienced in history or difficult literature, this might be one of the amazing books you'll ever read.
Wood has a superior prose, the best of any historian I've read.
I read this as part of my studying for the general exams I took for my doctorate in history. Wood does an incredible job of explaining what the founders' really believed and what the Constitution really means. Everyone should read this classic, especially those Tea Party types who need in a good lesson in what the original intent of the Founders actually was. Sobering, humbling, exhilarating, and stimulating--one of the best books I have ever read.
So Wood argues that the Constitution came not so much from a weak Articles of Confederation, but out of corrupt and ineffectual state government.As the Constitution Convention was convened, Madison had already formulated a plan, along with Hamilton that would create a Federal government that would be invested with greater power and would become the focus of the best of the best--a government run by the elite of the nation placing a restraint upon unchecked state power and corruption.It is clear that Madison was a son of the Enlightenment, for whatever beliefs he held about man, he clearly believed that the proper system of government could act as a buffer against corruption, greed, tyranny, and partisanship.
A 600 page book on the political and legal theory that influenced the forces forming the burgeoning independent United States, this is quite simply one of the most important books on American history I have ever read.
We learn the theoretical underpinnings of the reasoning behind declaring independence (it was more about cutting ties with a corrupt and remote hierarchy than anything else and representing themselves within their own government), the various philosophies and multi-varied governments of the states in the era between 1776-1787 (some with more success than others), and finally the need for a national Constitution and the controversy over its reapportioning of power to a centralized government.The seeds of our modern political system are here, as are many of the wrongful assumptions that the founders generated.
This is an intellectual history of the evolution of the ideas that were debated and thrown into the blender of the Constitutional Convention.
What is the supra-legislative body of a "Constitutional Convention"?
Wood does a masterful job of charting the progress in the thinking of the Revolutionary generation, and how they came to their understandings of sovereignty, the purpose and role of a Constitution, the need for checks and balances, the nature of American society -- and human nature -- etc.
Reading a history of the development of the Constitution today, that seems ridiculous.
In The Creation of the American Republic, Gordon Wood tracks the transformation of the colonial, classical, and Whig-inspired conception of early American politics through the Revolution and the Constitutional crises of the 1780s to its arrival as a distinctly modern conception of politics, government, and republicanism.
Wood sets out to highlight that important intellectual developments that still influence modern politics today did not originate in an intellectual vacuum, but the environment he presents could still be included with more context.
According to author Wood, the inauguration of the American revolution antedates July 4, 1776.
This book traces that process from 1776 through 1787 as regards, first, the colonies (inclusive of the briefly independent Vermont) and, second, the republic they formed under a federal constitution.
In the end, in the debate between Federalists and Anti-federalists over the constitution, they came up with a uniquely American conception, that being of popular sovereignty.
Following 15 polities (the 13 colonies, Vermont and the federation), the principal debates within them and the precedents they referred to is daunting to the non-specialist.
In another venue I will write more extensively about Wood's work, which I undertook reading as a personal quest, in search of the republican spirit of America.
I think I found it, pretty much, although I am left to fill in some soft spots for myself.
First, Wood often handles quotations poorly.
I don't mean he handles them dishonestly, or chooses them poorly; I mean he sometimes fails in managing the mechanics of quotation.
These things said, I am left with a long string of recorded comments, to which I will return in reflection and composition, and with a profound longing for republican virtue.
One of the seminal works on the American Revolutionary era. Wood attempts to refute previous scholarship which focused primarily on the economics of the era, giving emphasis to the role of ideas and public conceptions of politics and the role of government.
One of the half dozen most important books ever written about the American Revolution. This 615 page book is no light read.
The best book on the revolutionary period. This book is packed and well written. A tour do force.
Simply put, this is one of the ten most important books written about early America in the last one hundred years.
Best book on the period, bar none.
That they ultimately created the exquisite Constitution we continue to honor after 230 years, despite their unrelenting disagreements (which I never before appreciated), is surely a result of human compromise at its very best.We all know that the American Revolution was unique among revolutions in that it was followed by the establishment of the first national government on earth not to be led by a king or any other individual or group of leaders who made—and enforced—the laws by which their people would live.
Just some weekend reading.
Wood, however, probes much deeper than Bailyn’s work in breaking down the process whereby American political thought led to the Constitution.
It delineates how American political thought developed from early protests against British measures to the construction of the world's first federal republic; the crowning achievement of American political thought.
According to Wood's thesis, this process featured a transformation in American political thinking.
During this transformation, Americans developed a unique ideology and a truly American science of politics.
It is this transformation that Gordon Wood maps out for us in his remarkable study of the revolutionary and constitutional era.
It is a book focused exclusively on the science of politics that was developing in the years leading up to the war, its development during the war, and particularly its apotheosis after independence was declared.
This is, by historians' consensus, one of the best and most scholarly books ever written about American history.
However, having said that, to a layman this is also its major shortcoming: due to its immense and rigorous scholarship, the book is dense on political science theory, voluminous on quotations (and generally voluminous) and to a large degree dry.
I have learned more about the development of American political theory by reading this book than by any other.
American political theory at the time of the ratification of the Constitution grew out of necessity.
This concept was revolutionary political science at the time.
Wood does a remarkable job of tying together the patchwork of thought that led to the political theory underlying the federal constitution.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the origins of American Political Theory.
Originally published in 1969, Professor Wood's book traces the political philosophies, and the ever-CHANGING political philosophies of the American public and politicians who fueled the creation of the US system of government following independence in 1776.
Wood uses an exhaustive array of first-hand sources to show the emerging American philosophy having its origins in the English Whig tradition, but branching off to have its own distinct character, a fact that made the so-called Founding Fathers quite proud -- and even slightly arrogant, one could say -- of what they had created.
Letters, correspondences, newspaper editorials, written essays, books; these were the sources of fiery social media of the day.
If you only read one book on the early American experience; this is the one.
It is clear that Dr. Wood immersed himself in the primary sources.
His basic thesis is that American political thought underwent a sea change between the Revolution and the Constitution.
From a blind acceptance of the "people" as able to govern themselves without limitations to an acknowledgement that the "people" could be just as tyrannical as any monarch is the main thrust of Wood's thesis.
The book is absolutely brilliant, but a tough read.
This is one of the classic studies of American revolutionary-era thought. Wood argues convincingly that there was an evolution from the radical and liberal wings of English Whiggish thought to something unique to America. By the time of the ratification of the Constitution, this included a defeat of the more democratic, populist strains of American thought: "Though the artificial contrivance of the Constitution overlaying an expanded society, the Federalists meant to restore and to prolong the traditional kind of elitist influence in politics that social developments, especially since the Revolution, were undermining."
I read this book perhaps 20 years ago and it remains my favorite work of history. I particularly enjoyed the fact that Wood didn't limit his narrative solely to the political ideas that ultimately prevailed, but instead he gave ample time to competing strains of thought. His method necessarily leads to a slow-paced book, but ultimately it is much richer and satisfying.
One of the most enjoyable works to read about those years essential to the formation of the Republic, despite the factional rivalries that were already well-established (and continue to characterize American society). Many authors are too technical or just plain dry when writing about the Constitutional era, but this is a lovely exception.
This book definitely assumes a certain familiarity with the subject matter (a background in law wouldn't hurt either). I really have neither of these prerequisites but still found the book to be extremely informative and thought provoking. I just couldn't read more than 15-20 pages in a day if I hoped to retain and fully understand what I had read.
Essential for an understanding of how the American Republic was created, from the Declaration of Independence, through the Articles of Confederation and ending with the creation and adoption of the Constitution. This was required reading for a course I had on that subject in the Spring of 2010 at Temple University - Ambler. Second time through, and just as relevant. 2/20/2014
This is a fantastic book on the political philosophy of the new American republic. It's got a pretty dry narrative (if there's even one at all). However, his understanding of Whig, Republican, Federalist, Anti-Federalist and other political philosophies remains second to none, over half a century later.
