https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129910.No_No_Boy
No-No Boy was searingly wrong for its time: in 1956 John Okada wrote a novel about a Japanese American man who went to prison instead of fighting for a country that had sent his family to an internment camp.
This novel was just reprinted last year by U Washington Press, with a foreword by Ruth Ozeki--it's worth getting a copy of the new edition just to read her essay about Okada and about the immediate post-WWII realities of Japanese American life.
While John Okada’s novel could be read for its historical perspective on the internment of Japanese-Americans and their experiences post-WWII, it was not written as a historical novel.
No-No Boy was published just over a decade after the end of the war and is a vibrant, fresh exploration of the complex issues of identity (ethnic/cultural/racial/national).With his cast of characters Okada is able to get at the reality and illusion of identity.
Not only does he portray Ichiro’s struggle, but each character is also caught in his own struggle for identity, so that he become a symbol of himself.
Okada is unflinching and accurate in his portrayal of the intersection of identity.
Both Kollenborn’s Jim Yoshimura and Okada’s Ichiro Yamada are what was known as “No-No Boys”.
A reader might ask who is more typical of “No-No Boys”, but I don’t believe that characters in a novel can or should be considered representative of an entire group.
This is why I think that a better question for a reader to ask is why Jim Yoshimura and Ichiro Yamada had such disparate responses.
I did prefer the character Kenji in No-No Boy. It isn't because Kenji fought in World War II.
Un libro muy importante por al menos dos razones:1) la meticulosa descripción de la experiencia de un emigrante japonés de segunda generación en los Estados Unidos, en una época en la que su ambivalencia hacia su identidad nacional, cultural y familiar sale a la luz de forma dolorosa gracias a la IIª Guerra Mundial, y2) que es un relato escrito por un japonés-americano (perdónenme el término) que trata en parte sobre los campos de internamiento en los que los japoneses que vivían en suelo americano y se negaban a luchar por los EE.
fueron encerrados durante la guerra.
No-no boys refer to the Japanese American men and Japanese Nationals who answered "no" to two specific questions on a survey conducted by the US government while they were interned in camps during WWII.1.
When our military instituted the draft and additional troops were in demand, our government decided that the formerly untrustworthy Japanese Americans men could be asked to serve for their nation.
To ask the Isseis (first generation Japanese immigrants) to foreswear allegiance to Japan meant that they would become "men without a country".Those who answered no to both questions were later known as "no-no boys".
The setting is a post-WWII America most white Americans don't know about--the complex and conflicted positioning of Japanese Americans after Pearl Harbor.
Okada builds a West Coast world of nightclubs, dire poverty, and urban grittiness to explore how Japanese Americans can or cannot ever be American.
Okada, himself a war vet, nuances the differing attitudes and emotions that Ichiro's position as a no-no boy conjures up among strangers and friends.
Okada writes fiercely and passionately, making his characters and settings memorable.
His exploration of the tenuous relationship that many othered Americans have with the US concerning citizenship are still so relevant today in post-9/11 America.
I read this book while doing “ground-support” for a tree-sit.
Reading this book was the first time I saw my citizenship and the privileges they come with it as unnatural.
But here I was with folks engaging in an action that depended upon our citizenship being recognized and respected.
It may very well have been at that moment that I committed to return to graduate school and think more about these issues, because I clearly didn’t know enough.This book was written by a WWII veteran and deals sympathetically with the story of a No-No Boy, an interned Japanese American who refused to be drafted out of the internment camps into World War II.
The book engages the relationship among physical, sexual, and emotional wounds of war and racism.
Ironically I'm writing this review as I'm listening to Trump give a speech after tweeting about targeting Mexicans for shipment to deportation camps. This is a story that educates me about a community I knew little about. At the same time it provided a story I cared about and a writing style that puts your mind in the world created. Similar to knowing the steps of a dance to the point you don't have to think about them. It just flows.
It was one of the first Japanese American novels to be published, and like the community it represented, it was mostly cast aside and ignored for years until people started picking it up and studying it for its literary value.The basic story is set in Seattle, during World War II, in which Japanese Americans were herded like cattle into concentration camps.
When he comes back, Seattle and its Japanese American community has fragmented between veterans and no-no boys (the ones who refused to fight for a country that had rejected them first) and parents and their children.
Searing, powerful, unique and complex -- and still far too obscure. John Okada died at the age of 47 "believing that Asian America had rejected his work," and his wife inexplicably burned the only draft of his second novel. Goddamnit.
Reading has been a big struggle for me recently and I was oddly excited to re-experience No-No Boy. 4.5 starsThis is a heart breaking recount of what it was like to be Japanese American in post-WWII America.
They gave a second life to this book and have allowed generations of young Asian Americans, as well as people from all over the world, to experience the brilliance that was John Okada.P.S. It should also be noted, that the style of writing that Okada crafts this book with is very aggressive and can seem degrading at certain points.
Okada is a Seattle-ite who wrote one novel and died at the age of 47.
I think this must mostly have to do with the content of the novel about a young second generation Japanese American named Ichiro who refused to sign a loyalty oath and refused to join the armed forces; hence “no” twice.
Apparently he had a second manuscript that was left behind when he died, but his wife tired to donate it to the Japanese American Research Project at UCLA and they refused his papers, so she burned them.
It feels more authentic than another Seattle-ite’s novel about Japanese American racism, Snow Falling On Cedars.
He's a "No-No" boy, having refused the draft in mixed protest against his family's internment during the war.
As he rambles around Seattle, he meets slowly dying soldiers, no-no boys like himself, and a women left behind by a man who loves war better.
This book it interesting and filled with vivid characters.
I understand that its functioning as a stream of consciousness technique, and I understand that the longer the rambles, the more momentum and emotional drama the author is attempting to build.
Indeed, it soured my perception of Ichiro more than anything else in the book.
The late John Okada was a man ahead of his time.
In the 1950's he crisply defined the pivotal struggle of 2013.
UCLA's internalized racism was responsible for the destruction of his subsequent book, and violence against the working class remains endemic in American institutions of higher education.
Today, good people do their best working within these Halls and this Nation, right alongside those impassioned and privileged who enjoy zero accountability.
Okada san won't allow us to look away from the Good Small - just as he forces huge patterns of destruction into the light of day.
Stark yet vividly human, this is an intense book. It's insight into people seems particularly fair in scope at the same time that it presents a highly rooted perspective. I really wish this author had a chance to write more. It would have been well worth reading.
3.5 ⭐ This is more interesting as a historical document than a literary narrative, but there are still moments where this book soars (often during Ichiro’s anguished internal monologues).
3.5 ⭐️ This is more interesting as a historical document than a literary narrative, but there are still moments where this book soars (often during Ichiro’s anguished internal monologues).
Waking up on the 7th of December and going to work and later on your co-worker is talking about Hawaii.
The novel No-No Boy by John Okada taught me was so much different than what I would expect from the Japanese point of view, because earlier this year I did a research paper on The Attack on Pearl Harbor and the effects it brought to the American people and the whole face of the war.
Just be warned of the strong language and the parties that is going on during the novel.
I was very interested to read this book, considered the first fiction book written by an Asian-American.
Also, the time period is unique as all other stories I've read of the Japanese-American experience have taken place during the internment camps, not afterward.
This book tells the story of a No-No Boy after he is released from jail following the conclusion of World War II.
I found this book's consideration of Japanese-American vs.
American identity compelling and relatable, and something I have rarely read about in fiction.
For instance, the fact that his mother is a Japanese loyalist who refuses to believe that Japan lost the war.
Many people, like Ichiro, are not sure they belong in this new world.No-No Boy was Okada’s only novel before dying of a heart attack at 47; he died in obscurity.
Ichiro is half Japanese and half American yet feels like he belongs to neither culture.
He comes in contact with a lot of kind people throughout the novel, as well as some not-so-nice ones; it’s a hard journey to find oneself.
This is not an exciting novel with lots of action — it’s mostly about Ichiro’s inner monologues and his path to find himself.Ichiro is a very whiny man.
Ichiro Yamado returns to his home in Seattle in 1946 after 2 years in an internment camp and 2 years in federal prison for making what he now realizes was a terribly wrong decision.
As the story progresses, the author makes the audience aware of the strange relationship between Ichiro and his mother who believes only in Japan and always has.
She refuses to believe that Japan has lost the war and thinks the authorities are all lying; she is waiting on a boat that is supposedly coming from Japan to pick up all loyal Japanese and is very proud of Ichiro.
In a nutshell, no-no boy Ichiro Yamada's brooding, raging introspection rolls all of this into one tumultuous account of the fallout from the internment, at times self-hating, at other times confused, and at all times cynical in the way that only a postwar man in his twenties could be.
Veteran Kenji Kanno takes over a portion of the novel as a sorrowful characterization of the lives of Nisei and the crushing disconnect between 2nd-generation AsAm children and their parents.
The young Japanese men who had done this were called No-No Boys.
He immediately encounters hatred from the Japanese who served in the military, he is scorned in his community.
The person who is proud of him is his mother, the person who most strongly implanted his identity as Japanese.
His parents are both Japanese, living in American for many years but never intending to stay, two boys born to them in America.
Ichiro, our No-No boy, knows better but his mother will not be convinced, she has become mentally ill with cognitive dissonance.
He learns that there is more to life that to grieve all the time with the help of his friends Kenji and Emi. They help Ichiro realize that and they try to help him better his life up.
I can relate with Ichiro because when I was younger that when anything bad happened I thought it would not get better but while growing up I do realize that things do get better just how you react upon them.
If you want a different perspective this is a good book to look at how Japanese may have been treated after the war.
Throughout the book, Ichiro goes through life with his best friend, Kenji, coaching him to make the right decisions.
You will take away from this book that, in life some of your decisions might seem wrong at the time but in the end they will pan out!
I wanted to read this book to see the Pearl Harbor bombings from another point of view.
This book is aimed at readers who enjoy history and also want to see both sides of the Pearl Harbor bombings.
Though well written, this book didn't really keep my attention. I will admit that there were some interesting characters, but in a few years I doubt I will even remember the main character's name. There were a few interesting quotes, but overall, not my type of novel. I have mixed feelings about this book - I didn't find the plot interesting, but if you are into post-WWII novels and Japanese-American identity struggles, then this book is for you.
A harrowing look into an Asian-American family on thin ice following World War II, Okada's only novel is an interesting look into the life of Ichiro Yamada after he is released from prison after refusing to serve in the US army. Okada's characters are tragic yet somewhat easy to sympathize with, and his writing breaks away from the books I've read for school in the past in terms of long descriptions. In here, they work and are pretty engaging.
I quite liked this. I felt like a got some sort of glimpse into the world of Post-WWII Japanese America--to the emotions and the struggles and the triumphs. It's pretty sad, and sometimes you feel the need to slap Ichiro, but that's kind of what I loved. It didn't feel sugar coated. Dramatic, yes, but unapologetic and just a really interesting read. Would recommend.
This story was real & raw. Even though it was required reading for an english class, I loved this book. I look at the world a little bit differently now, and if a book succeeds in doing that to me, it deserves 5 stars.
Damn, that ending was intense. Such a sad book, truly makes you realize the pains of being a "Japanese-American" during WWII. I wish Okada had been alive longer to write more books, his voice is refreshingly honest.
I read this in high school and was not mature enough to understand what it was about. I remember it was set in an internment camp during WWII and focused a lot on cultural and peer pressures. A No-No Boy, by the way, was a Japanese-American who refused to enter military service for the U.S.
