https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1084995.Before_the_Mayflower
I asked where I could find the actual history of Africa.
I didn't WANT to read about the colonizers.
Through impeccable research, he has uncovered history and culture that was not readily available those many years ago.
This book was published and available at almost the same time I finished my degree.
I found it later when I had the luxury of being able to read what I wanted, rather than that which was assigned, and have used it to some degree in home schooling my son (though it is too difficult for most high school students).
This is my favorite book of all time. That means that it influenced my actions. Also, I collect editions of it, so if you have one you want to let go, please send it to me. :) Thank you.
Read for one of my history courses while attending San Diego City College.
This book is powerful.
Spanning centuries of history, a great introduction and original text on African American History.
15 Chapters:1.
The African Past2.
Before the Mayflower3.
The Founding of Black America4.
Behind the Cotton Curtain5.
Black, Blue and Gray: The Civil War Nobody Knows8.
Black Power in Dixie9.
The Life and Times of Jim Crow10.
Red, White and Black: Race and Sex11.
The Time of the Whale13.
The African-American Century14.
The Perseverance of the Black Spirit15.
Black America's Gifts to America and the World
If you are of African ancestry you have to know your history before you can put your eyes on the future, with success. This is also a very good read for anyone that is not African American but wants to explore the history of Africans in America.
This book is a nice, solid primer for those who don't know anything about Black History ...
It has been revised at least 3 times since; and in this revision Lerone Bennett states he re-wrote many of the sections to update it to encompass present knowledge (as opposed to the earlier editions that were 'revised' simply by making a few editorial changes.) The book is encyclopaedic: Bennett moves back in time in order to be able to deliver context, travelling as far back as history will allow and then takes it to 2007, when this last edition was printed.
In the end, a very quick (and informative) read from a hefty five pound book.
This book is a M U S T read for all! yes, it is a lil strong in its content but it all truth to how life was for a race of people whom is still classed as 2nd class! it has a real WOW factor to it but i really feel if read but our young sisters & brother today would clearly feel a lot better about themself than they do now!
PLEASE read this book.
I don't believe I haven't reviwed this book yet! Read it about 20+ years ago and Loved it!! It's basically a Black version of the history books we're given in school. My daughter's too young to read it now, but in another 10 years or so, she's definitely reading this gem.
A must read. The chapter on Lincoln puts a lot of things into perspective and casts a new light on "The Great Emancipator"
As an African American, I found this book not only very educational but also an interesting read. I expect that anyone interested in black history would enjoy it too.
Chronicles the cohabitation of Europeans and Africans in North America and corrects misconceptions and bold face fabrications that have been perpetuated by scholars throughout american history.
This comment is only to add corrections to the editions shown on GoodReads. My copy is the (Revised Edition) A Pelican book published by Penguin Books (14 020856 9) from 1970, with the Cover Design by Janet Halverson. (435 pages - including reference pages). I selected this one since it came closes in year in publishing date and format.
This a great introduction, if not then the best introduction, to African American History. If you are wanting to know more about the story of African Americans this book is very readable and accurate. When I taught our school African American History class this was my text. My students liked it so much most of them went out and bought their own copies.
Excellent resource book to have. It provides a detailed history of Black America before coming over on the Mayflower. There are many that have tried to lift up the defeats and successes of the African American. Great historical book to maintain in your home library.
Learned some things I didn't know.
A great Black history book
great read on african american history. the history of africans in america is the history of america.
Very thorough, this book can easily be used as a sort of encyclopedia
a classic
This is a great resource of history. I have not read it cover to cover, but turn to it often.
I had to read this book, since I was named after the author.
Very detailed, and very informative. Content, in some areas, may promote anger while reading.
an incredibly influential book for me. changed my perspective on a lot. transformational.
Great Book! I have read previous versions. There are some new updates in this one.
An engagingly written survey book of African American history. There are some sources cited in the early book that seem dubious, and some statements made that strike me as false in ways that should be especially relevant to a black history textbook. For example, Rosa Parks did not sit down in the white section of the bus on an "impulse," but rather as part of a calculated civil disobedience strategy. But overall the breadth of the book's focus and the liveliness of its prose counterbalance these flaws.
It is not just that African American history is important because black people were around and doing things that are often ignored in the study of mainstream history; there was a constant influence on society and history, and without understanding that our comprehension of history is complete.I had worried about bias, but the start of the chapter on Lincoln and Jefferson is gracious, and there is a poetry that comes out there.
Other especially beautiful segments of writing include the beginning of the chapter on Reconstruction and Bennett's writings about jazz.
This is a great book for giving ideas on topics to study and school reports to write.Highly recommended.
This was an amazing piece of work. I knew that people of color in this country had it rough but this truly shows just how bad. Even with all of the hardships people of color tried again and again to be the best that society would not let them. I was inspired by this book to continue to strive for progress and thus success. The stories of my ancestors have shown me that I come from a strong stock that can survived the worst of times so that I may have the best of times.
The most thorough study of the African American experience I've ever read. It takes you from their life in western Africa before the slave ships arrived all the way through the Jim Crow era to their struggles and place in our society today. For any history lover who wants a full, true account of the journey African Americans have taken in our society.
A Classic! This should be on every historian's bookshelf.
Great read!
