https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6050678-leviathan
To me it read more like a children's book, middle school maximum.
For a book about 15-16 year olds, Daryn and Alek are written awfully young.
I can enjoy some books written for this age group, such as first 2 Harry Potter books or "His Dark Materials," but the world of "Leviathan" just didn't hold my attention.Secondly, the book is extremely heavy on descriptions of various machinery and fabricated animals and battles between them.
And lastly, for a book that is supposed to offer an "alternative history," the "alternativeness" is very thin and doesn't go beyond war machinery.
I really enjoyed Westerfeld’s Uglies, so I was excited to read this new book, set in an alternate reality.
It’s the dawn of World War I, and war is about to erupt between two great powers – the Clankers (Germany & Austro-Hungary) and the Darwinists (England, France, Russia).
Westerfeld’s world is beautifully realized and totally convincing.
Lots of action, and two great main characters who have dangerous secrets.
I’ll be looking forward to the next book in this series.
there is no standard TROPE(17) for the hero or heroine, although i suppose Alek's TROPE(18) to the austrian crown may eventually qualify...but so far, there is really nothing for him to quest after, as he spends most of his time hiding and running.
i would have appreciated some more quiet times where the reader gets to live and breathe the characters' lives and the world's strangeness, but clearly the novel is geared more towards younger, shorter attention spans.i love the steampunk subgenre.
Alternate title: An Adventure in Which an Aristocratic Young Man Discovers How to Pilot an All-Terrain Walker and that he is Now an Orphan, and a Young Woman Disguises Herself as a Young Man and Joins the Navy to Pilot Flying Octopi and Whales.I rarely read Young Adult, so it is a mark of Westerfeld’s credit that I didn’t abandon ship immediately.
Try as I might, I could not stop visualizing the Star Wars edition, circa 1983:Prince Alek is young, and makes all sorts of silly mistakes: thinking the advisers might be out to kidnap him, not believing his parents were killed and accidentally betraying his noble upbringing.
Sometimes, you just want to read about giant steam-powered robots in the dawn of World War I.Leviathan is a steampunk adventure tale set in the opening months of World War I in an alternate world where war is brewing between the Darwinists and the Clankers.
Darwinists use genetically engineered war machines while Clankers use big honking human piloted robots.
Who doesn't love giant robots and huge living airships?
I also liked that Alek and Deryn didn't instantly fall in love and neither of them was a Chosen One type of character.The writing didn't wow me, however.
Franz FerdinandHis father and mother survive the initial assassination attempt that in our reality sparked World War One. In Westerfeld's world they survive only to be poisoned later that night at a dinner party.
In the book A Nervous Splendor: Vienna 1888-1889Frederick Morton speculates that Rudolph's suicide (Franz Joseph's son) was actually an assassination by Germany fearing his anti-Germanic rhetoric.
Another real character masquerading in Westerfeld's world is Nora DARWIN Barlow who has become critical to the upcoming war effort as England needs more advances in genetics to have a chance against the Clanker armies of Germany.
"A missing piece can be very bad for the puzzle, whether in the natural world, or politics, or here in the belly of an airship."  Initial Final Page Thoughts.That’s what I want to know, Alek. That’s what I want to know. High Points.Deryn. Alek. This world… wooow, why doesn’t it exist yet?! Huxleys. Darwinists. Clankers. Flying wales. Cow farts. Trinkets&Diddies. Messenger lizards. Science. Nature. Snowshoes. Tazza. Dr Barlow. Frostbitten bums. Odd kind of tingling. The prospect of sequels…L
The prospect of sequels…Low Points.I think I’ll appreciate this book all the more when I look back on it after reading the others… which may or may not be zooming down the motorway to my house as I type.This isn’t a gripe directed solely at Mr Westerfeld… more like everyone who has ever written a story where a girl dresses up as a boy and no one notices.Yes, that’s right.
People who can’t wait to see what happens when what they think will happen happens.You can read this review and other exciting things on my blog here.
My advice to you is if you are thinking about reading any of the Rick Riordan/Percy Jackson books; put that thought out of your mind right now, and pick up Leviathan instead.
Leviathan follows the story of their (fictional) son and heir to the throne, Alek, as he attempts to escape the armies wanting to kill him.
The British are what are referred to as ”Darwinists", meaning that they rely on genetically altered animals for weapons and transportation.
Leviathan is the name of the genetically engineered hydrogen-based whale aircraft on which Deryn is stationed.
For any YA-fans looking for a new fun and imaginative adventure to fill the Harry-Potter-sized void in your lives, I give you Leviathan!Beware the Clanker Revolution!It's the year 1914, and Austrian prince Alek has just learned that his parents have been murdered.
As the young girl fights alongside the Darwinists in their battle against the Clankers, she proves many times over that the most powerful weapon at her disposal is her mind."Leviathan" was the most fun I've had reading a book in a long time!
At work, I’ve had a few of my co-workers recommend this book to me, along with about fifteen other steampunk titles.
But every time I needed a new book to read and review for my job, I always found myself looking at LEVIATHAN.
I thought: If I can just read 50 pages, then I could tell them that this type of stuff isn’t for me.Well, my wife and kids went to bed early, so I opened this book.
I will proudly eat my own words and say steampunk is fun, good reading, and YA literature has a lot to offer.
The author, whose prejudices are clearly against the killing of others, never preaches, though his subtext is pretty overt to adult readers.The story's focus is on a teenaged Hapsburg prince, the son of Franz Ferdinand (the archduke, not the Scottish dance band), whose factuality I have no idea about...though it wouldn't surprise me if there was a large dollop of truth in it...as he attempts to survive the loss of his parents, the bewildering early days of the war, and the inevitable confrontation of his prejudices with the realities of the Great Evil Other Side, the Darwinists.
It's a great first steampunk book.
1.5*'s. This book read like a newsreel being delivered by a stiff network anchor. I never felt engaged by the story or the characters. Everything moves at a super slow pace an is overly simplistic. The book is a steampunk and historical fictional piece about the son of assassinated WW1 icon Franz Ferdinand. The story takes place in the events leading up to and then in the war. The fictitiously named son spends his time on the run in a dirigible learning secrets long kept from him. I will not be continuing the series.
The style came easily to me even if it is my first historical sci-fi book.
I haven't read a book with pictures in it in a long long time and I have to say that I actually thought it was great.
The characters Deryn and Alek are well developed.
At first I didn't like Alek because he seemed so immature for a 16 year old aristocrat but he grows throughout the book.
As the book progressed I could like both characters equally.
The book was more juvenile than I thought it would be -though that alone probably would not have stopped me from giving it 5 stars.
I loved the illustrations.
I wish they were all pushed a page later so they wouldn't spoil what was currently happening every time I turned the page, but that was alright.
I think at times, I found it easy to put down, but once I committed, I was totally in.
The characters were pretty realistic with their characterizations and were kept super consistent.
I loved the afterward where he explained his ideas for this alternate history/futuristic story.
I though it ended pretty abruptly, but I'm definitely pumped to read the rest of the series though!
This combination fantasy and alternative history of World War 1 was fun and imaginative in many ways, but it came up short for me in its limited depth of characters and plotting and in my troubles suspending disbelief.
The alternative history angle has it that the assassination of the Austrian archduke in Sarajevo was a plot by the Germans to start the war and that his fictional teenaged son Alek has to go on the run with some of his father’s men to keep out of their clutches.
I balked quite a bit over the silliness of the two-legged walking tanks being so subject to falling over (at least the similar machines in Star Wars had four legs).
I love the setting but characters and story are bit too naively written. Since this is YA book aimed at lower age parts of YA spectrum but I feel that what this book does, it does worse than Mortal Engines which has significantly better characters and character interactions. Overall fun read but too much unused potential for such awesome setting.
It follows two protagonists: Alek, the orphaned son of the murdered Austrian archduke, and Deryn, a girl disguising herself as a boy in order to fly on a Darwinist airbeast.
Deryn especially was making a lot of progress in the best-character category during the first half (not that I didn't like Alek, it's just that Deryn seemed cooler).
Other Things on My HeartI regret reading this so quickly; I feel I did the book a disservice.
I liked the small, small, small hints of romantic feelings directed from Deryn to Alek.
And, just for repetition's sake, I like Alek better than Deryn!
I really enjoyed this and I'm glad it was the first steam punk book I got to read! I loved all the different vehicles and airships throughout the book. I just had a few problems with one of the main characters, as she was super annoying, and I also thought the ending was a BUZZKILL. Other than that the story was great and I'm excited to continue on with this trilogy.
I felt that this series was best reviewed as one coherent narrative given the relatively short period of time the books cover, the continuous story that was told, and the similarities between them.The Leviathan series is a fun mix of steampunk, adventure, and historical/alternative history that, for the most part, delivered a satisfying and enjoyable reading experience (even if the end of the series does sink a bit too deeply into some annoying YA qualities).
Even though I liked both characters, things that were happening with or around Alek were a little confusing or frustrated.
Then there was Deryn, and I was just freaking out for her the entire book because I didn't know what was going to happen once people found out her true identity.
I also loved her from the very beginning and even after finishing this book.
Once they did, they ended up being a great duo and fought for what they believed in.
Again, I loved this book and these characters.However, there's the one thing I disliked about this book.
This is a very solid young adult book, with not too much romance shoehorned in.
This book in particular feels like it could have skipped the burgeoning of the feelings without in anyway detracting from the book.) I am waffling on the three or four stars right now - because I liked it enough to be interested in further books in the series without in any way falling in love with it.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
The map on the inside covers are amazing with the details and colors.
Plus the illustrations throughout the book are fantastic.
Full page sketches of a scene that are highly detailed and stunning.
It just all sounds and feels so juvenile.
Also I don't really buy the fact that a girl dressed as a boy could really fool EVERYBODY.
Yes it is a a part of a series, but even a series novel should have some sort of ending, something, anything, that answers just a single question brought up in the book.
But no, not in this book.
I've tried the audiobook for this twice now and I just can't get into it. This time I was several chapters in and almost 2 hours in and I still was zoning out. I'll probably try again with a physical copy soon, but for right now it's a DNF
How a book about an alternate history steampunk WWI where one side has clankers, and the other genetically engineered flying beasts that double as airships could be so exceptionally uninteresting and generic, I really don't know.
Or maybe the characters were flat and uninteresting, and the story lacked anything that I found to be compelling, like the literary equivalent of tofu.
This felt like empty calories, and I have way too many books to read to waste my time on them.Probably won't be continuing the series, but never say never, I guess.
(Well he is somewhat Australian, after all.) I love this animal, and it was great to see it in a story, finally.Deryn is the kind of protagonist I instantly love - a tomboy in the best possible way, with a mouth full of slang and stable talk (often invented for the world), a quick mind and passion - in this case, a passion to be in the air service and serve on board the Leviathan.
Izuzetno interesantan svet, prvi svetski rat sa steampunk robotima i velikim geneticki modifikovanim zivuljkama koji se biju medju sobom.
Alternativna istorija koja je dovoljno slicna pravoj a opet dovoljno promenjena da bude interesantna.
Prica koja se fino razvija i daje mogucnost da se istrazi ovaj svet a opet nije optereceno info dumpovima.
Likovi koji su ultra dosadni i manje vise cisti klisei sto se ponasanja tice iako imaju jako interesantne okolnosti iz kojih poticu i pricu kojja ih gura...
Idemo dalje.P.S. I crtezi u knjizi su odlicni i fino docaravaju ovaj svet i razna bica u njemu.P.P.S. ovde imate slike iz knjige mada se pazite spojlera: http://www.keiththompsonart.com/levia...
3.5 stars. Great concept for a book with a decent execution. The book is clearly the first in a series and not enough happens to make this a great book. That said, I love both the concept and the descriptions of the "Darwinist" fabricatred animals and the "Clanker" machines. I also love the setting of an alternative history "steampunk" World War I background. Will definitely read the next installment.
I was very tempted to give this 5 stars, but even when the book was completly amazing and smart, I know Scott will do it better in the next one.My very first Speampunk :O I have to read this genre more. Interesting, smart, a great plot and characters. Go, read it.  Tal vez esa era la manera de seguir cuerdo en tiempos de guerra: un puñado de gestos nobles en medio del caos.  Hasta este momento, todas las novelas de Scott que me he leído me han gustado bastante. Sin duda uno de los grandes de la
Tipo Pacific Rim, pero no tan gigantes XD El libro empieza con el inicio de la WWI, osea, los motivos que llevaron a estos dos lados a enfrentarse, debo darle puntos a Scott por lo increíblemente bien que manejo todo.
Me gusto que no perdiera el humor la historia, después de todo, para que queremos un libro lleno de destrucción?....si, es cierto que trata de la WWI, pero no estamos de lleno en una guerra, estamos con dos personajes,y como la guerra los lleva a encontrarse, como logran poner de lado sus diferencias por el bien de ambas partes.
In this world, creatures can be used almost like machines and can be created by humans, and world war 1 is about to occur.Westerfeld describes steampunk in his afterword as a blend between the past and future, and that's what I loved about this.
I'm always fascinated in real life by our progress with creating new DNA and the potential to genetically engineer life, and so this was right up my alley.The characters themselves are great.
Alek was great for his character development-he's spoilt and arrogant at the beginning, but he really grew into his own person throughout this novel.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list.I think I’ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I’ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too.This is a bo
This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list.I think I’ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I’ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too.This is a book I read before 
won the Locus YA award in 2010 - the same year that Boneshaker took the top Sci-Fi book, The City & The City won best fantasy, and The Windup Girl walked away with best debut.
