https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69933.Changing_Places
Most of the humour comes from the observations and contrasts resulting from this.It has to be said though, that many of the discrepancies are no longer so pertinent, as in the intervening period British Universities have become more similar to their American counterparts, so this novel has inevitably lost a little of its edge.
They were protected from the thin, cold air by the pressurized cabins of two Boeing 707s, and from the risk of collision by the prudent arrangement of the international air corridors.For the next six months the two professors would be “changing places” as part of an academic exchange program.Phillip Swallow was flying from the University of Rummidge located in the English Midlands, clearly based on the University of Birmingham.
One of my favorite books is  Kingsley Amis'  Lucky Jim, so of course I would love Lodge's academic comedy—especially since it comes with the bonus of being set in Birmingham and Berkeley.
They're not called Birmingham and Berkeley, of course, but if you have any familiarity with either locale, it becomes even more amusing to "decode" the various place names (i.e., Silver Span, Cable Avenue, etc.).
Further, the way Lodge plays with format (epistolary, newspaper clippings, film script) is both fun and effective, and there's a delightful amount of meta-humor.
“A Troca” é um livro que me fez chorar copiosamente… de muito riso.Através de diálogos e situações hilariantes, David Lodge oferece-nos uma história simples e divertida, mas que nos incentiva à reflexão.O contraste entre os anseios revolucionários da juventude e o conhecimento oferecido pela idade, de que o que realmente importa, é a procura da nossa própria felicidade, mesmo que seja de forma egoísta e derrubando tabus e regras sociais. Sem culpa!“Quem não sabe ser feliz em nada pode contribuir para a felicidade”André Gide.
I kept hearing that David Lodge is the funniest author around, that you have to read it, what, you haven't read David Lodge yet, no way, so I decided to finally make acquintances with Lodge through one of his novels and being a trilogy, i took this one to start with.
The story is alert, dynamic and there was no wasted phrase.
The story is good, well written.
NOW A BIT OF A SPOILERLodge plays with his readers, he knew that we all waited to see how this elaborate story ends, and then he gave us that ending.
So I can decide how I want the book to end.
“A Troca” de David Lodge é uma divertida narrativa sobre um intercâmbio universitário de professores decorrida em 1969: O inglês Philip Swallow da Universidade de Remexe vai lecionar seis meses na Universidade de Euforia e o americano Morris Zapp da Universidade de Euforia parte durante seis meses para a Universidade de Remexe.São seis meses em que as vidas dos dois homens se sobrepõem ante o olhar ávido do leitor que segue com entusiasmo as peripécias de Philip numa universidade americana em pé de guerra e as peripécias de Morris numa pacata e obscura universidade inglesa que começa a despertar para o mundo.
http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63...I really do like a no-holds-barred approach to humour and yet there are things that somehow seem to be humorous in one period and repugnant in another.
His wonderful observations about the academic world will not have changed in their impact, whatever else might, and since it is the important part of his work, surely it will continue to be timeless.It makes me think of the Rumpole books.
I wonder what the historical antecedent to Lodge’s books are?Or – and this just comes to me – maybe academia did change and Lodge documented it.
Philip starts to 'let his hair down' (or whatever the male equivalent of this is) and gets involved with the American hippies: complete with protests, pot, free love, and Black Panthers.Morris on the other hand, makes a vow to be loyal to his wife while he's away in Britain...if only to annoy her, not really because he cares.
I'm glad he sticks to the men in this book and doesn't try to speak from the female perspective.Lodge plays around with writing in this book.
If you are going to read a David Lodge book, I think THERAPY is better than this one, even though this one is great.
Of course, she recognizes him and it’s all downhill from there.Phillip, meanwhile, grants special permission to a student to enter his class late, only to have the student lead the entire class out on strike — it takes place during the sixties — “no offense intended.”Lodge makes constant spirited fun of all the academic stereotypes.
One of many favorite scenes takes place in Zapp’s lodging house, where the young daughter of his landlord has gotten ahold of Zapp’s Playboy.
Zapp, of course, would like it back, but Shea, his landlord, retorts he has destroyed the magazine.
Skvele napísaná forma i obsah. Páčilo sa mi striedanie žánrov, aj poučné state o literatúre, románoch Jane Austenovej, postrehy o spoločnosti, akademickom prostredí a (mas)médiách. A ten (filmový) koniec tiež :)Prvá veta:Stalo se vysoko, převysoko nad Severním pólem, prvního dne roku 1969: dva profesoři anglické literatury se k sobě blížili souhrnnou rychlostí 1 200 mil v hodině.Posledná (dvoj)veta:PHILIP pokrčí rameny. Kamera se zastaví a v půli gesta ho znehybní.Goodreads výzva 2017:125. dočítaná kniha
Lodge's Changing Places is the first novel in his Campus Trilogy.
They also end up sleeping with each other's wives.Contrary to expectations, the story was not particularly funny or revealing.
Nor was the style successful; to go from relatively straightforward storytelling to epistles to news bulletins and finally to film script might work theoretically, in some cases—not in this one.
I think that the news bulletins especially killed what little interest I had in the flow of events.
I will read the subsequent two novels of the Campus Trilogy, but with dampened expectations and enthusiasm, I'm afraid.
Taken as a whole, the writing and the concept were both novel.
The simultaneous and similar incidents that happened to Philip and Morris were funny and the way David narrated them are simply entertaining.
The drama script format in the final chapter would really gave an idea to those who read and liked this that this is cut for a movie or a sitcom (which I read in Wikipedia to really have happened in the 70s).
Although it is now dated (there was no computer yet and there was a mention of electric typewriter) this will be bound to an entertaining read especially for the academe.
But since life always takes us by surprise, they change not only positions and it's a good opportunity for Lodge to use his own experience in order to emphasize the cultural / mental differences between America and England.While reading, I was a bit disappointed about the final chapter.
He uses the film script format, with a lot of cuts, camera close-ups and focusing, which made it a bit difficult to follow.
Speaking of film scripts, besides the classical narrative, he also uses the epistolary style in one of the chapters, plus newspapers clippings in another - techniques which also gave dynamism to the novel.
As diferenças que começam na cidade natal de cada um alastram-se, ao longo do livro, desde os detalhes mais irrelevantes, como os escritórios onde trabalham, até aos pormenores mais pessoais, como as mulheres com quem casaram.
E todas as críticas ou comentários irónicos relativamente a ambos os países são passados para segundo plano, quando cada uma das duas personagens principais se deixa envolver pelo novo ambiente e rotina diária, deixando-se absorver por uma vida que não lhe pertence.E, no final, tudo acaba bem (acaba mesmo?) quando é feita uma proposta pouco usual de uma relação amorosa.
Moderately funny
Still funny.
It would not be surprising, in other words, if two men changing places for six months should exert a reciprocal influence on each other's destinies, and actually mirror each other's experience in certain respects, notwithstanding all the differences that exist between the two environments, and between the characters of the two men and their respective attitudes towards the whole enterprise.Einstein once spoke of so-called "spooky action at a distance" (which incidentally would have been a pretty great title for this book).
I guess The Novel wasn't quite at this blunt stage yet when Lodge was writing Changing Places - it needed about four more decades of debasement or, if you will, "deconstruction" - but some of the gags here are a little like that.
If you like laughing at academia, differences between US and UK universities, laughing at annoying things happening to pretentious people, satire of modern life and politics, laughing at Jane Austen conspiracy theories... then you will like this book. As I like all of these things, I thought it was hilarious!
The trilogy contains three books: Changing Places, Small World and Nice Work.David Lodge is a British author and has more than 20 books to his credit.
won the Whitbread Book of the Year for 1980.Changing Places is about Philip Swallow, an academic working at Rummidge University and Morris Zapp, Professor and an expert on Jane Austen at Euphoria University.
In the second chapter especially, where we see Swallow and Zapp settling down in their new places, the contrast that the author draws between the two characters and settings is amazing.
Rummidge College don Phillip Swallow, a diffident dabbler who started with Jane Austen, but has not stuck to anything since, has not published, changes places with gauche Morris Zapp, an American thruster from Euphoria State, in Esseff (Lodge takes care with his nomenclature), who has made a specialty of Jane Austen and published a lot.Domestically, both of them are sad, for different reasons.
Morris Zapp finds his can do American optimism decidedly useful to and appreciated by the staff and students of Rummidge College.
But people are people all over, and while both professors undergo quite a bit of culture shock, and cause some culture shock in the academic societies that they become a part of, the real story here is that it is a small world after all (hmm, funny that, but Small World is the name of the sequel to this novel).One of the best sections of this novel is the depiction of a game called Humiliation, wherein you must name a novel that you have not read, but that you expect everyone else at the table/party to have read.
In the Department meetings that discussed draft question papers he was much feared by his colleagues because of his keen eye for the ambiguous rubric, the repetition of questions from previous years’ papers, the careless oversight that would allow candidates to duplicate material in two answers." (35)"In Morris Zapp’s view, the root of all critical error was a naive confusion of literature with life.
Life was transparent, literature opaque.
Life was an open, literature a closed system.
Life was composed of things, literature of words.
For anyone who has been involved with higher academia, David Lodge is your P.G. Wodehouse.
I don't know how much of it would make sense to those who don't understand the process for tenure, or the general ins and outs of academic publishing, but it's got a lot of funny moments involving the fallout of free love and fish-out-of-water plot mechanics.In Lodge's book, you find yourself liking people in spite of their insecurities, arrogance, and misplaced idealism.
Lodge's humor is dry, clever, ironic--in short, quintessentially British.The story takes place on two campuses, Rummidge (Birmingham), and Euphoric State (Berkeley).
(The thinly veiled references, as well as Lodge's protestations to the contrary, simply add to the fun.) Morris Zapp, a hairy, husky, irreverent lit crit professor decides to participate in an exchange program with Rummidge.
His position in Euphoria will be temporarily occupied by Philip Swallow, one of those pale, indeterminate creatures which frequently haunt British universities.
What the two professors end up exchanging, of course, turns out to be much more than their academic posts.Like a Comedy of Errors, the nearly constant improbabilities make for some truly wild comedy.
Two professors, alike in propensity...David Lodge's book of two university professors on a job exchange in 1969 is a fun read, reminding me of the works of Thorne Smith in its light-hearted dealings of sometimes serious matters.
The book is a snapshot of the end of the 60s told from the safe distance of 1975 (the book's publication date) and shows the differences and, more importantly, the similarities between a Berkeley-like Euphoria (located in a fictive middle state between north and south California and Rummidge, a stand in for Birmingham.
It's a nice comedy of contrasts as the two men, Phillip Swallow from England and Morris Zapp from America end up taking over each other's lives, finding in the them the missing parts of themselves.
E poi c'è la presa in giro degli ambienti accademici sia inglese che americano, e (non molto) il sense of humour inglese, e le sorprese di un inglese in America e di un americano in Inghilterra, e poi ci sono le rivolte studentesche, gli hippy, la liberazione della donna...
It's dated in an odd way- the academic life these days revolves *completely* around computers.
But in this novel the profs use typewriters.
But it's dated in another way- tiresome pomo trickiness.
It makes fun of 'how to write a novel' handbooks!
It makes fun of the debate about realism and the novel and film!
Also odd is Lodge's miniscule changes to the real world.
The british prof goes to a combination of Stanford and Berkeley, CA while Reagan was governor.
This wouldn't be so offputting, I think, if Reagan hadn't proceeded to become president twice over.
The men aren't entirely clean and the women are allowed independence and intelligence quite separate from the men in their lives.
Lodge also plays with structure, as when one chapter consists solely of newspaper headlines and another of only correspondence between the husbands and wives (including one reference to the death of the epistolary novel).
This falters somewhat when Lodge transforms the final chapter into a film script so that he can get away without ending the book - but he did follow it up ten years later, I suppose.
Tôi tò mò không biết rằng trong vòng vỏn vẹn gần 400 trang, David Lodge sẽ khiến cho hai giảng viên một Anh một Mỹ ban đầu từ đổi chỗ làm cho tới đổi cả vợ như thế nào.
Những là thư có lẽ là phần hài hước nhất trong cuốn sách.Tuy nhiên, nếu như bỏ đi những yếu tố đó, thì cuốn sách này sẽ chẳng hơn một tiểu thuyết hai sao đọc để giải trí là bao.Cập nhật thêm nhé: tôi nghĩ một phần là vì người dịch chưa làm toát lên dược vẻ hài hước vốn có của cuốn sách
Prečítané v rámci relaxu po riadnom zábere a nutno priznať, že očakávania to rozhodne splnilo. Ironicky vtipné, postavy krásne ľudsky omylné, s množstvom chýb a predsa sympaticky skutočné, a napriek značne s nadhľadom poňatej zápletke príbeh stále obsahuje zásadnú otázku, ktorá neraz napadla snáď každému z nás: čo keby som skrátka začal/a nový život niekde inde. Oceňujem tiež množstvo drobných postrehov, vďaka ktorým som sa nad knihou väčšinu času usmievala - to sa mi nestalo už dávno.
