https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/414403.A_Catskill_Eagle
Still, I believe a good mystery requires some suspense about precisely where the evil is coming from, and then about what exactly must be done to eliminate it, or—at the least—to protect the weak from its attacks.
In Spenser novels, the source of the evil is often quickly discovered—perhaps too quickly—and the puzzle of the book consists in what methods should be adopted for its elimination and for the protection of the vulnerable.
(What made some of the early books so unusual—and contemporary—was that the evil was so embedded in social structures that it could not be eliminated, and even its containment and the victims' protection from it often required sketchy methods and questionable moral decisions.
In the previous book in the series, Valediction, Susan had left Spenser to take a job in San Francisco, partially because she said that she needed some time alone because she’d always defined herself as someone’s daughter, wife, girlfriend, etc.
It’s not the healthiest of relationships.Spenser gets a brief note in the mail from Susan stating that she’s in trouble, and that Hawk is in jail in a small town in California after trying to help her.
There’s a real Helen-of-Troy thing going on where Spenser and all his friends are willing to go to war to save Susan, but I don’t see where she’s earned that devotion.
The first 7 or 8 books in the series are among the best detective novels I have read.
Something happens to this series in the mid 80's though and in comes to a finale here in this terrible 80's action movie posing as a Spenser novel.
This book is appalling and unfortunately is the beginning of Susan and Spenser's relationship becoming so irritating in future books that you find yourself skipping the sections she appears in.
There are some enjoyable stories to come in the series, but from here on its very much the same formula book after book.
There can be no solution by choosing one over the other.I feel that Susan chose Spenser because she realised that in the long term, Russell would be unreliable and self-destructive.Parker presents the end of this book, and the events in his own life, as a resolution and a solution, a victory of shared effort.
the relationship between Spenser and Susan (Parker and wife Joan in real life) has, sadly, failed in a way that cannot be recovered now, I feel.
This 12th in Parker’s original 39-book Spenser set is flawed by the entire premise that Spenser and Hawk would go out to San Francisco to rescue Susan from her “boyfriend” Russell Costigan, despite avowing her “love” for our hero.
When Spenser gets a short note from Susan saying she and Hawk need help, out he goes and successfully jailbreaks Hawk.
Those that wonder why Susan warrants all this would certainly be on target – not to mention the worship she will foster from Spenser throughout all the rest of the set, despite their decision not to marry but just be totally committed lovers.
I wish someone could explain how Susan could justify loving Spenser, the very embodiment of a morally driven person who tries to do the right thing and also Russell, the shallow, dirtbag, cheating on his wife, son of one of the biggest sleazeballs on Earth.
How can Spenser, Hawk, Rachel, etc not see this and continue to worship her without condition?The fact that Spenser chose to stay with Susan really sullies his character for me.
Not in character at all for Spenser and not sure I can handle reading the next books with Susan and Spenser merrily back together.
This is the 12th book from Parker's Spenser series.This one goes through a patterned plot-Spenser and Hawk go to various places to rescue Susan Silverman from her boyfriend, Russell Costigan and his family; break into the place; kill some people; realize Susan isn't there and move on to the next place.
Susan then mails Spenser a letter asking him to help Hawk get out of jail.
In fact, Spenser and Hawk are basically hired to kill Russell's father by the FBI.After looking for Susan and killing a bunch of people in California and Washington, Spenser and Hawk head to Idaho where they find the Costigan family and Susan.
Susan, with her Ph.D. now from Harvard in clinical psychology has chosen to take a job in San Francisco, is involved with married man who helped find her new job, and won't give Spenser her address and yet calls him regularly talking of her continued love for him.
I kept thinking that Spenser is such a depressing sucker to continue a relationship with this messed up woman who keeps blowing hot and cold and that Susan is such a selfish, self-centered good-looking bitch (pardon my language) who is sleeping with another woman's husband (and this seems not to bother her at all) and keeping a devoted man dangling with love talk while sleeping with the other guy whom she tells Spenser she also loves during their long-distance calls.
3  stars. This had more action than most of his books, and it was good action. I enjoyed it. Although, it did not have as much humor and wit as the early books.The major flaw for me was Susan’s motivations and actions described in Spoiler below. In the previous book (#11), she left Spenser to “find herself” - my words. She dates Russell Costigan, a married man. Russell’s father is one of the richest men in the world, dealing in guns and mercenary armies. Even though I didn’t like the spoiler iss
In the previous book (#11), she left Spenser to “find herself” - my words.
The Hawk and Spenser partnership is good.(view spoiler)[Susan loves both Russell and Spenser and can’t decide what to do.
Susan then writes to Spenser implying she’s being held against her will by Russell.
Hawk and Spenser kill others, are almost killed themselves several times, and risk going to jail - all of this for Susan.
Instead many men die in order for Hawk and Spenser to save her?
I suppose one might say Susan was really saying “save me from myself.” (hide spoiler)]The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #12 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
Spenser's lady-love, the shrink Susan, has taken up with another man, which seems so out of character for her.
Apparently it happened during a falling out with Spenser and the guy she's with is of questionable character.
Spenser and the new guy, Russell.
Russell however, won't let her leave him and whisks her away.
All Spenser fans should read this one, as it gives you some background on the main characters, Spenser and Susan, and what makes them click.
He is an interesting guy, but in this one Susan is the one that surprised me, taking up with this Russell character.
Not a good period for the series.
A Catskill Eagle is a shockingly bloated Spenser outing that finds Parker tossing everything, including the kitchen sink, into a barely comprehensible narrative seemingly ripped from slambangin' Hollywood blockbusters.
Comparing A Catskill Eagle with earlier classics in the series like Moral Stakes is illustrative of what a fallow period this is for Parker's writing.
The best advice a reader can be given about this novel is don't think too hard and judge it on its own rather than in the context of a long series or a writer's career.
It was a hard book to judge. On one hand the plot was awesome, the characters continue to amaze, and the chemistry of Spenser and Hawk still makes me laugh. On the other hand the relationship drama between Spenser and Susan still puts me off. With a lot of the drama still making no sense to me.
They're all short, easily read in a few days (in no small part because you won't want to stop).
I didn't miss them until I met them, and then, for several of the books that I read out of order, the story was a little flat without their involvement.Parker's Spenser has been called "the toughest funniest, wisest private eye in the field these days" and "one of the most engaging characters in contemporary American fiction." It's true.
Spenser and Hawk go to a lot of trouble to retrieve Susan from her unfortunate relationship with the spoiled son of a major gunrunner who is more or less holding her against her will, confused as it is.
The book represents the end of the hard-edged part of the series (alas), and leads to a somewhat gentler Spenser and to increasingly irritating conversations with Susan about the nature of manhood.
It's hard not to notice that Susan carries much of the moral responsibility for the mayhem that Spenser, Hawk, and their opponents create in this book.
re-read it 2013 August.
Wonderfull Melville quote: "And there is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces.
and even if he forever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still higher than the other birds upon the plain, even though they soar."Just finished: WONDERFULLY OUTRAGEOUS!!!!This is soooo farfetched.
Each chapter getss more outrageous.Interesting blending of morality and the graying of morality...
This is Robert Parker's masterpiece. It is easily the best of all the Spenser novels (and many of them are very, very good).The characters are nuanced, there are many shades of grey, yet Parker's wonderful wit is still there.This is the Spenser novel that should have been made into a feature film.....
I read A Catskill Eagle when it was first published back in the 1980s. It was good then; it is still good now. Actually, it doesn't seem very dated. With some minor adjustments (map in the internet and cell phones at appropriate places) this could be a present day story.Reviews of this book are quite mixed. I think it is one of the better Spenser and Hawk stories.
This is the book where Hawk and Spenser save Susan. I know a lot of the later books are based on things that happened here, but I really can't remember reading this one. It was not my favorite, but a good book anyway. A lot of exchanges between Spenser and Hawk and that's always good!
I don't know why I am letting Spenser and Susan's relationship irritates me so much.
"You did help," I said.
You projected your strength and love onto me and used it to feel better.
In a sense I never knew if you loved me or merely loved the projection of yourself, an idealized .
"You can't have us both," I said.
That includes the damage your childhood did you, the damage I did you.
But it doesn't include Russell.
He goes or I do."Page 263 "You'll leave me?" Susan said.
"Yes." I said.
"I cannot imagine a life without you," she said.
He goes to calif and Russ’s rich father Jerry sets him up for murder and he’s in jail.
Spenser comes to help Hawk and find Susan and get her out of California.
He breaks Hawk out of jail and they manage to get to Susan and kidnap her from Russell and get her to Boston.
Russell wants his father dead, even though he loves him.
Spenser promises Susan that he won’t kill Russell, but he has to kill Jerry Costigan for the CIA in order to clear himself and Hawk for murder in Calif.
Now I want the old Spenser back, with just a little bit of Susan.
A harder character as far as killing outside the judicial system. Compensated for with a sensitive, romantic side that causes him to murder people. Right.
A Catskill Eagle brought the Spenser series to a crucial mid-80s turning point.An S.O.S. from Susan Silverman sent both Spenser and Hawk to a small California town where they ran afoul of the rich, powerful family of the man Susan had left Spenser for.
A Catskill Eagle was one of the more action-intensive installments in the series that also made excellent use of the Spenser/Hawk bond.
It was a nice nod to continuity by Parker to bring in some familiar faces who could help out Spenser at a critical juncture.As with some of the volumes that preceded it, A Catskill Eagle is not a good entry point for newcomers to the Spenser series.
So in this book, it's the old Damsel in Distress routine, as Spenser and Hawk determinedly shoot and maim their way through a pantheon of bad guys to "rescue" Susan from a guy she deliberately had an affair with.
But Susan is not one of them.Anyway, I give the book three stars because it's always fun to see Spenser and Hawk working together.
And by the way, the "witty dialogue" that the Spenser books are so well known for takes place between Spenser and the cops, Spenser and Hawk, and Spencer and the bad guys, but not between Spenser and Susan.
Susan, now she's another story in my book.
Really liked the storyline, with Spenser and Hawk traveling outside Boston to get done what they need to do to make things right.
USA Today says on the back cover, "if you like tight writing, no wasted words, loads of liolence, and interesting characters, Parker will be your cup of tea." Yes, Robert B.
Parker is my cup of tea since this is the latest Spenser read in series which I've challenged myself.
At least one, I had read previously, but started with The Godwulf Manuscript and glad I read them as a series since characters are popping up who have a background with Spenser.
I believe the guy in the wheel chair (Hugh Dixon) was also from a past Spenser book (Judas Goat).
She’s in trouble with the guy she is with and turns to Hawk for help.
Hawk goes out to try and help her and kills a man and is thrown in jail.
Rachel does research on the man to help Spenser and Hawk find Susan.
They want this powerful guy dead and tell Spenser and Hawk they will get them out of trouble with the law if they kill him.
So, Susan is rescued and her boyfriend sets up his father for Spenser to kill him.
Perhaps the least plausible plot of the series, this story of chivalric fealty is so extreme, so unrelenting in the goodness of the good guys, the distress of the damsel, and the loathsomeness of the bad guy that it becomes too much on many levels.
As a plausible story involving three dimensional characters, A Catskill Eagle fails muster, and is a poor exemplar of Dr. Parker's canon.If one willingly suspends disbelief and approaches the story on its own terms, however, the story is a hoot, perhaps the most rollicking of his career.My star rating above is solely for purists, who will find much to condemn here.
Let those who have read the entire string of Spenser novels speak: Is there ANYTHING about this piece a shitthat marks it as anything but inferior trash that Parker could not possibly have written, ON HIS WORST DAY he never betrayed his style, his characters, his plot structure as the writer (whoever that may be) has done here.
I love Parker's dialogue.
Perhaps it happened like this: Parker wanted a year off, gave a no-talent kid a chance to write a Spenser novel and never to this very day betrayed a promise he made to the ghost.
Maybe when Parker passes on...may it be many years from now...we'll learn the truth.
This was a wild ride - very entertaining. I could see this one as a movie. It's one of Parker's longer Spenser novels. Spenser doesn't have much to live for other than Susan and she's been kidnapped. That premise allows for a lot of Hawk/Spenser violence. A good dose of "suspension of disbelief" is needed before you sit down with this one. A couple "Mission Impossible" moments and the ending held this from a five star rating.
I have read many Spenser novels, this one was different. Spencer kills many people and its really murder. He could be imprisoned. Susan has run off to Cali. with another man Russell. This does not fit because he is very rich and very much a jerk. His father involved in all manner of illegal activities. yet she loves him and says she still loves Spenser. FBI wants Spenser to kill Russel's father, and they will clear up all the crimes and murder charges for Spenser. A more dark Spenser book.
Tried to reread this--I remembered it well--very exciting jailbreak at the beginning, Spenser and Hawk and a chase across America, I should love it. But ugh. Maybe I just can't reread these, because the second time through all I notice are the flaws? Not even on the beach. I'll try another another time.
