https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/703323.Dragon_s_Milk
This was one of my favourite books as a kid - I was a huge dragon nut, to the point where I refused to read Harry Potter because of something I read in the back summary of the first book that lead me to assume JK Rowling was "doing it wrong," so I turned my nose up at the whole series.
(God, I pray for the death of the love triangle as a plot point.) These are mostly stories about girls and young women thrust into complicated, painful situations where right and wrong aren't necessarily clear-cut.
Not only if she a lovely, intelligent lady, but her books are as well.
I really enjoyed reading this trilogy when I was younger, and now that I'm older I still enjoy them as much as I did then (she has this writing style that gets to me).Also, bonus points for having a female lead that's badass.
I think one of the only times I've encountered a badass female in fantasy was Howl's Moving Castle.
The cast of characters are mainly likable and intelligent female characters as well, so MORE bonus points go to Fletcher.
When I read a book I don't enjoy, I have to read a couple books I know I'll love to get the bad taste of bad reading out of my head.
It's usually a more recently discovered comfort read, but if it was a really bad book, I might feel compelled to reach deep into the past and draw out a very old favorite.I read a very bad book the other day.
This book is a very old favorite.
I was kind of worried that, after so many years, it might not be as lovely as I remembered.
Originally posted at Worlds AboundDragon's Milk starts with our introduction to Kaeldra, a young girl living in a small village on a farm with her adoptive family.
Kaeldra is likable and not constantly noble; she wants to be rid of her dracling charges and go back to her normal life.
For those out there there really like some type of romance in their book, this kind of has some (but seriously, very minimal).
There are three more books in this series, but this one gives closure to Kaeldra's story, and the next two are about different characters.
Definitely check it out if you're interested in dragons, fantasy and middle grade fiction.
I read this at least a dozen years ago. What I remember: there is a young girl (possibly adopted, but definitely less parentally favored) who tries to save her sick younger sister with doses of dragon's milk. To get the milk, she makes a bargain with a dragon. But after the mother dragon is killed, Kaeldra takes on the responsibility of the three baby dragons left behind. She and a would-be dragon slayer traverse a surprisingly well-thought-out fantasy world, trying to keep ahead of their enemies.
Actual Rating: 3.5 starsFor the most part, I enjoyed this book, mainly because it had baby dragons in it.
Ms. Fletcher's descriptions of them, however, were vivid and compelling.The dragon's milk in the title played only a small part in the beginning of the story, but the search for it was what ultimately sent Kaeldra on her mad, dangerous dash across the countryside in her quest to save the draclings.
The draclings were definitely the saving grace for the story and, if you're like me when it comes to dragons, I think you would also enjoy this delightful fantasy.
Kaeldra (first of all, let me apologize if I spell her name wrong.
Let me just say that I LOVE THE DRAGONS.
They're misunderstood creatures who honestly mean no harm to the humans in this book.I'm extremely glad there wasn't a lot of romance.
I'm tired of corny relationship stuff in books.
That was a great breather from the usual stuff that's in books you read these days.
Just a little bit of romance sprinkled on top is nice, too, writers.In short, I really loved this book.
I might even read it again sometime, if I can get my hands on my own copy.
The first in Susan Fletcher's series about dragons and their offspring, called "draclings." (A perfect word for them!) The dragons are fierce and the draclings are mischievous. Kaeldra is sucked into their world in order to save her younger sister from an illness. She comes to realize she can mind-speak to dragons, along with birds who are related to dragons. While other humans hasten to wipe out the dragons from the countryside, Kaeldra must race to save the draclings and their kind from annihilation. A super first installment in the series!
This was a beautifully written story about a young girl trying to keep three draclings (young dragons) safe. I love everything concerning dragons, so this book was wonderful for me! I just wish it had been a bit longer, I didn't want it to end!
I can’t believe I missed this book in my younger days. It would’ve fit in perfectly during my Tamora Pierce/Robin McKinley binges. A strong heroine, twisting adventure, humor... this has everything that younger me really loved in a book. And older me really enjoyed returning to that kind of world. I can’t wait for the other three in the series!
This was my favorite book when I was in 6th grade. It was wonderfully nostalgic to reread it, and to be equally moved by Fletcher's prose. I have not read any further into this series but I am curious ...
Deze recensie is als eerste geplaatst op Carpe LibraWat me in eerste instantie aantrok om Dragon's Milk te lezen was natuurlijk de fantastische kaft."Oh, daar is veel moeite in gestoken, dat zal dan ook wel een geweldig verhaal zijn om te lezen!", waren mijn eerste gedachten.
Zelfs daarna had ik nog het gevoel dat er sommige dingen niet klopten, over werden geslagen of ontbraken...Kaeldra's persoonlijkheid was ook iets waar ik problemen mee had.
Ik niet hoor, maar Kaeldra misschien wel??Het boek had verder ook niet echt diepgang.
De enige reden waarom ik eigenlijk door bleef lezen was dat ik wilde weten hoe het zou eindigen met de draakjes.
Kaeldra finds the dragon easily, and eventually settles on a trade- milk in return for watching the dragon's 3 babies.The dragon, Fiora, is killed by dragonslayers, and the rest of the story is about Kaeldra trying to get them to other dragons.
The book ends with the hope that one day people will return to being at peace with dragons and then they can live on the earth again.This book is non-stop action, which is good sometimes, but in this case it seemed like the story progressed and randomly developed too fast.
WARNING, SPOILERS AHEAD  I mean, yes, it's good that the heroine lives and gets the guy and saves the day, but the thing is, there WAS no saving the day, all of the dragons, save for her chicks, died :/ And, yeah.
Aside from the ending, it was good.
And the dragons were cute, which is also good.
And I liked that the author strayed from the 'oh, dragons are bad!' thing.
Overall, it was not a horrible book, but I was very disappointed with the ending.
This book truly is magical.
The characters, plot, everything.
The book starts off with a good and steady pace.
Kaeldra (first of all, let me apologize if I spell her name wrong.
It's a mouthful.) soon learns that her foster sister has grown terribly ill.
Let me just say that I LOVE THE DRAGONS.
They're misunderstood creatures who honestly mean no harm to the humans in this book.I'm extremely glad there wasn't a lot of romance.
I'm tired of corny relationship stuff in books.
The reason this book loses one star is because there's no comedy and it has a terrible ending.
Wow, I think it's been at least 15 years since I've last read this book.
Back then, I had no idea it was going to be part of a series, but I remember loving it.
So, now that the series is finished, I am going to read them all!
I can't wait!
This book is even better than I remember it, and even 15 years later I'm still a big fan of dragons.
This book is great for both boys and girls, juveniles, tweens and teens; fantasy fans and dragon lovers.
Action!
Suspense!
Adventure!
I read this when I was younger, so I decided to try it again. Wow, I was surprised by how much I still enjoyed this book! Sure, the vocabulary and word choice is a little simple, but this book was written for young adult readers. I definitely got in to it, and even though I've read it before, I couldn't put it down!
This was the book that got me hooked on dragons. The author won the Young Readers' Choice award when I was in 4th grade and gave a presentation at my school about the research she did for the book. It's a great blend of different mythologies and includes some classic intrigue and coming-of-age storyline.
This book grabbed me the first time I read it I was pestering my mother for a whole month or so until she finally read it. Good read. Loved the special clay ;-)
I really like this book and there are other books in the series that I would like to read.
Ages 8-12 makes a good read, first of three.
i remember liking this book, but i read it like four years ago ... i remember that i hated the ending, but i won't give it away.
I loved it, and almost cried at the end.
Gosh, I haven't read this series since 6th grade, and I'm tempted to read it again! Very good :)
This book gives me all the feels! I read it when I was about 11 or 12 - I loved it then and I still love it now! It has the ability to make me cry for so many different reasons, and I just love that!
One scene that I can remember clearly was when Kaeldra goes to a farm to try to steal some food for them since they're all hungry, the family invites her inside to eat, and instead of the baby dragons doing what dragons do best and hunting for their freaking food in the giant woods they're in, the dragons waltz into the humans' farm, kill some rabbits, get attacked by a dog, kill the dog, and almost kill a boy.
The kestrel is absolutely no help at all.The ending was THE most unsatisfying ending I have ever read since the one dragon baby I actually gave a crap about WAS EATEN BY A FREAKING HUMAN and the whole "Kaeldra calls the dragons" was ridiculous because she calls them and they showed up in, like, five seconds.
But they don’t face any consequences, and the people who want to kill them have reasons like, “because dragons should just die” and “I need their dismembered bodies for my own purposes.” The dragons also shouldn’t be able to get away with “they’re just animals, as they’re intelligent and speak, after a manner.Still, it’s a story about a strong young woman overcoming adversity and terrible danger to help others.
I love that when she was first trying to conform, there was nothing but refusal of acceptance from her stepmother and the clear message that conforming would not help Kaeldra to obtain happiness.
Considering the adult dragons that got slain, I don't think it was worth it for the kyn to show up for two babies.
Jeorg is given a backstory where he couldn't kill a puppy (good kid) but then decides to destroy his leader's letter and go dragon slaying.
It ended abruptly with a kind of "Kaeldra accepts herself, marries Jeorg, and they start their own dragon network." It had a lot of potential, but really fell short in execution.
This appears to be the only book by that title, so I'm assuming it was this one, but I've been re-reading it and finding it not only very unfamiliar but of the high-fantasy style that I have never liked, even when I was a child.I don't remember much about the book -- I have a vague impression of a girl hiding dragons babies in a shed or a barn or something of the sort, which doesn't seem to actually happen in this book.
The only reason I know I read a book called Dragon's Milk is because around the same time I made a Neopets account and called it Dragonmill because Dragonmilk was taken.
I think the book was good but it was not great.
Even in children's literature I am used to a certain emotional progression and I felt this book had very abrupt decisions.
I think this would have been a good book for maybe elementary school me.
Reasoning: I thought the writing more simplistic (but comparatively aged/ targeted towards) than Brian Jacques's writing and I obsessively read his books at that time.I will still finish the series since I am a completionist but I do not believe this will be a series I purchase for my bookshelves.
