https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253106.The_Earth_My_Butt_and_Other_Big_Round_Things
There must be some sort of checklist authors use for an overweight novel:* Fat Girl's best friend has moved away over the summer leaving Fat Girl all alone (subsequently Fat Girl spends lunch eating Twinkies in some remote part of the school)* Fat Girl has a super skinny mom with issues (in fact, her whole family sucks)* Fat Girl's family is, however, rich (which explains why Fat Girl has a disposable income for junk food)* The popular girls in school are bulimic (that's probably why they are so mean--they are awful hungry!)* Fat Girl undergoes a physical transformation at the end and gets the guy!!!Check.
The Big Dipper.Although it is adult chick lit (and not the YA genre "The Earth..." falls into), I admired that author Jennifer Weiner keeping Cannie Shapiro (Good In Bed) heavy.
However, Cannie Shapiro was still pathetic chasing that no-good-exboyfriend around like a fool.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Here’s an important message to all of the people who made this selection top the Banned Books List . . . .  Do you actually think that by removing stories like these from school libraries that it will also magically eliminate any nastiness from ever occurring to your speshul snowflakes???? I mean, I understand that Virginia might not be everyone’s idea of a great time, but silencing her won’t keep the superbadawful stuff from happenin
And I loved the messages contained in this little slice of awesome even more.
Sure things got wrapped up in a tidier way than would happen in real life, but it’s a YA book FFS.
Virginia learns that maybe her brother didn’t really deserve to be put up on a pedestal like she always thought when he gets kicked out of college .
I loved watching Virginia find her voice and realize that .
“I think people can choose to be victims or they can choose to be empowered and to carry on.
This book is a TIME CAPSULE.I read this exclusively because I got an ARC of the sequel, which is inexplicably coming out this year.
(Slugs all look the same, I think, and I will not confirm this because I refuse to look it up and therefore voluntarily regard a slug.)Reading this book was like being forced to reread a book nine- or ten-year-old me read with the clear, clear eyes that a decade of character development has brought me.It was not a fun experience.Outside of that, even, there was a wildly outdated depiction of being overweight.
And I'm not totally keen on how they were handled.☆ Virginia says seriously HORRIBLE things about herself to start, but she never really takes that back??☆ I kind of felt at the end she was happy despite being fat, not just happy to be herself (that might be me misunderstanding though)☆ HER PARENTS ARE AWFUL.
0_0  (hide spoiler)]☆ it touches on the topic of rape (not to Virginia, but it has to do with her family), and I think it was done horrifically, with the rapist getting away with it.Look, I think the book said some good things.
One thing that struck a note of reality with me was Virginia's mother.
The mother was so focused on her work and so convinced her two children were "perfect" that when her son and daughter both began acting out at school, the woman refused to believe it was her children.
Later, that vice principal told me that before I arrived for the meeting, he'd mentioned that it wasn't just big behaviors and failing grades that was getting the girl in trouble but small things as well such as gum chewing.
So keep that in mind if you decide to pick up this book.I did enjoy it but there were some things that I did not like.
The first 100 pages were the same story, and for a book that is 250 pages long, it shouldn't have taken that long to get into it.
I felt there wasn't much of a plot.Another thing is that the ending happened quickly.
I feel like the author could have taken the last 50 pages or so and flush them out to make a longer book.
Something I did like was the connection I felt with Virginia.
The book is about Virginia a girl trying to live in a "picture perfect family" when she herself does not feel quite so picture perfect.
Dealing with being overweight, critiqued and facing a family crisis, Virginia deals with teenage issues.On paper, Virginia has it all.
She is wealthy and can basically do whatever she likes.
Her best friend goes away for the summer and Virginia is left on her own so to speak.
Virginia has a lot of insecurities.
This story is awkward, depressing, funny, basically it feels like a teenager.
Like how Virginia feels.
The thing I hate about most realistic teen fiction, especially those attempting to tackle "issues," like self-esteem and body image, and so forth, is that the characters always experience some profound transformation within in the span of a few months, and everything gets wrapped up and tied with a nice little bow by the end of the book.
Maybe this book is more for tweens than older teens, but still I think there are plenty of other books girls could read and draw the same conclusions from that are better written and have more believable characters.
I LOVED this book in high school.
I remember relating to her so, so well and supporting her over and over, always urging her on.
More often than not, I found myself wishing for what she wished for, dreaming of what she dreamt, and hoping and believing in her, because if everything could turn out okay for Virginia, it could turn out for me, too.Mostly, I remember thinking that we were so alike, and yet so different, because whereas she overcame her insecurities, I was still waiting for my miracle.
This book was like my bible in high school.
An "issue" book which is too simplistic and life lessons-ridden to be enjoyed at my advanced age. I want something that can surprise me. And Printz Honor? And on the top of the banned books list? WHY? Is this about those second base scenes? Or there is more to come?
Okay, this book is 15 years old and I just read it now since I have an ARC of book 2 which comes out at the end of May. I adored all of the body positive and sexual awareness stuff in this story, although I do have a few minor issues about how food is discussed - I think if this book had been written in 2018 it would have been addressed a bit differently, but I respect that I'm reading this 15 years late!I'm VERY interested in how book 2 is going to address the massive technology differences between when this book was written and now - it makes sense that a 15-year-old book will include outdated technology, but when the sequel is set in just the next year, but written 15 years later......we shall see!
I'll keep you posted!
No sympathy whatsoever is given to the brother, who was also drunk - so drunk that he barely even remembers sleeping with her, and can't remember her saying no (so, like, maybe there is room for interpretation as to how this event actually went down?).
At age 15, I hasten to repeat, meaning you are just barely old enough to start having sex at all and have literally decades ahead of you to see if maybe, just maybe, a dude will want you to be his girlfriend no matter what you weigh.
As the youngest sibling of three in an accomplished, attractive and brunette family, Virginia feels out of place with her blonde hair, voluptuous figure, and unconventional likes.
It's both sad and endearing to see that Virginia's guide is astute, witty and yet self depreciating.Despite Virginia’s size, her feelings of inadequacy, longing, and unattractiveness have been felt by all, making her undeniably relatable.
Consequently, one event shakes Virginia’s long standing, high esteem for her family.“The Earth, My Butt, and other Big Round Things” is the story of a girl, struggling to find her place, accept her size, and take charge of her life.
I just don't see why people can't write uplifting, inspirational books without tossing in so much filth.
This book is a Printz Honor and I thought that it had the potential to be good, but it chose not to.
I was disappointed that the author felt she had to put so much language in the book.
When reading this book I didn't love the main character, I really thought that she was messed up, and seeing her family I didn't have to wonder why.
I was very disappointed that this book was given the Printz Honor - sure it had a nice story line, with a girl who finally grew up.
It annoyed me that the doctor specifically mentioned her not being "obese"--I can see how being somewhat overweight would make her feel like she stood out in her thin family, but it wouldn't be enough for other people to notice her as being particularly fat, certainly not for people to glare at her when they see her eating a piece of pizza.
How would a teenager who's more overweight than Virginia feel reading that Virginia gets made fun of...
I know lots of teens who are more than twenty or thirty pounds overweight--the only figure mentioned.
I personally didn't relate to that experience in mental illness but as I always say, mental illness is subjective.I won't spoil but when the 'horrible thing' her brother does that is super scandalous comes about (horrible is an understatement though), the story began the change for the better.
As a whole, this book was exploring and detailing how Virginia started to look at herself, her behaviour and other's behaviour when she sees that her brother and her family was never as perfect as she thought.
(WARNING: Triggers for self-harm, eating disorders, and general self-hatred below, as well as spoilers) Carolyn Mackler introduces the prevalent issues of self-hate in her book, "The Earth, My Butt, and Other Big Round Things" in an unabashed manner; she uses language and describes actions that are realistic and what many people actually think or do to themselves.
In addition to not addressing issues of self-harm, Carolyn Mackler also fails to discuss eating disorders, despite the fact that Virginia goes on a crash diet where she refuses to let herself eat, and Virginia notices bulimia in another girl at her school.
As it is, only the family lawyer seems to get that maybe Byron taking a trip to Paris while he's out on probation might not seem like sincere remorse.The other thing that bothered me was not that Virginia went to visit her pal on the west coast, but that all concerned seemed to think it no big deal that she got her eyebrow pierced without parental permission (being underage at all).
Even more annoying was the take home message that you can be big and the butt of scorn in your high school, but if you get your eyebrow pierced, suddenly you are appreciated as cool and life gets good.I know the book won awards.
I was hoping for a light and funny read but what I got was a lot of serious topics and unresolved issues.Short recap: Virginia is bigger than anyone else in her family and they have a rude way of reminding her about that.
I’m not saying details need to be given but how about Mackler take this opportunity to talk about this topic and express how wrong it is… or what girls can do to protect themselves?
This is the very same girl that was overheard saying she would rather kill herself than be Virginia.
~*Actual Rating: 100 Stars!*~ I just loved it so much and I finished it in one day. This book was so authentic, genuine. There was actual substance to it. The character, Virginia Shreves, grew leaps and bounds and it was believable. It was perfect in how it portrayed the very imperfectness of life. The struggles teens, families, and people face.  When I first went into it, I thought this would be an enjoyable, fluffy, and funny read. It was enjoyable, it was SO funny, but it wasn't fluffy at all
15 year old Virginia feels like the odd one out in her family.
Her best friend moved away, she's alone at school, and she's getting gropey with a guy named Froggy, who she's starting to like, though she doesn't feel she deserves that.
The next thing I know, Mr. Moony starts rasping, "Froggy went a-courtin', and he did ride, a-huh, a-huh." People stare at us.
*sniffling*  It has those kooky teachers we all had in high school (whether it's the biased and vindictive French teacher, the old geometry teacher who can barely teach, but knows how to embarrass you with a song, or whatever.) This book's got heart.
The Earth, My Butt and Other Big Round Things is her journey from hiding herself to becoming the young woman she wants to be whether that's fat or thin, as long as she's doing what she loves.
Then her perfect brother does something despicable, and Virginia begins to question everything.The Earth, My Butt and Other Big Round Things was adorable and real and sometimes sad, but overall very hopeful and honest.
I could total relate to Virginia as she struggles with her weight and body image.
I loved how the author handled the issues of body image and weight.
The way she saw the world was twisted - she said that ALL of the girls in her school are skinny, which I'm sure is not correct.
In the real world, most girls in high school aren't thin, let alone skinny.
There's no way she is the ONLY heavy girl in her school.
It made me understand why Virginia felt so bad about her body.At the end of the book Virginia made a change - she pierced her eyebrow and dyed her hair purple, and like a miracle, it made her feel better about herself instantly.
Protagonist Virginia deals daily with feeling like the black sheep in her perfect family because of her body issues.
But Virginia feels she has to live by her imagined "Fat Girl Code of Conduct" which dictates what she can and can't do, wear or not wear, expect or not expect.For example, she can't expect any boy to actually like her or want to be seen with her in public.
It is actually the title of something in the book - you'll have to read it to see.
I was excited to read this for two reasons (beyond the title): One is that it has been popular with our high schoolers.
Yes, a book that many have actually checked out and read on their own.
I didn't know what she looked like, and with this book being about a chubby girl, I though she may have some heft to her, but she was as skinny as a rail.
The book deals with a chubby NYC teen's perception of herself and those around her, and how it changes.
She also feels like she is does not belong to the family.
Every girls thinks her brother is a hotie.
Virgina was thinking aren't im suppose to be like them?
Viginia feels pressured by her her family, but mostly her mom to make her lose weight.
Since Vigina is unsuecure about her weight she doesn't date boys in fact she has a set of rules that fat girls shouldn't do.
Virgina has always thought of her brother as a role model, but when he get kicked out of collage for a sex party.
I was a fat kid, thin teen and twenty-something, but have struggled with my weight as I got older, so I related to Virginia in so many ways.
Her family also undergoes some big changes, and that was also where I saw a lot of growth in Virginia.
Her family was a work in progress, and still need time for all the changes they need to undergo.
I feel like a black sheep, because I liked this book.
As someone, who struggle with my weight and disordered eating, I related to Virginia, and I enjoyed seeing her find her power.
Thanks to Bloomsbury for sending me a copy of the book for review!CW: eating disorders, self-harm, rape, emotional abuse  "But what happened the next morning, what will happen every morning for the rest of my life, that's up to me. I think people can choose to be victims or they can choose to be empowered and to carry on. That's what i want. To be empowered."  Although I had a few issues with this book, it's a story that needs to be told. It's honest and the author holds nothing back, it's thoug
There were a lot of aspects in the story that I loved reading about; Virginia's weight and body issues and how she dealt with them, the family dynamics and a-hole parents, learning not to judge people from the outside before getting to know who they are on the in, how she handled finding out that her brother is not the golden trophy that she always thought.
As empowering as I found the story, there were a few issues I had or things that I found problematic;- Mum basically is proud that her daughter has an eating disorder and Dad comments on women's weight (Virginia's, his wife's, women on TV) through the whole book...
Carolyn Mackler decided to use rape, parental neglect and abuse, self harm, depression and other serious issues as simple plot movers, just some bothering details the main character had to learn how to face so she could grow.
So this guy goes and rapes a girl, admits that he couldn't know if there was consent (which, by the way, MEANS THERE WASN'T CONSENT you scum!!), is suspended from college (another naive, for lack of a better word, point of the story; as if it were that simple for colleges to take rape accusations seriously.
We could all wish things really happened that way.) and is then spoiled by his disgusting abusive parents as if he were on vacation.
Um livro com 15 anos mas que foi actualizado para os tempos actuais e mesmo que a autora só tenha feito alterações em termos de novas tecnologias, os assuntos abordados continuam a ser tão actuais agora como em 2003.
Gostei de como a Virgínia era realista em certas coisas que as raparigas gordas não se encaixavam e as listas que ela faz inserem-se bem no livro.O meu maior medo deste tipo de livros é que normalmente aparece sempre algum rapaz que faz com que a rapariga queira mudar de um dia para o outro só por causa dele.
Barely three stars. Look, I like the message the author is trying to convey, but I think Melina Marchetta does it better in Saving Francesca. Heck, a lot of other authors did it better. But Carolyn Mackler did an okay job. Read Saving Francesca!
