https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7152421-pollyanna-of-the-orange-blossoms
There are so many funny stories but also moments in which I was inspired by the quiet courage and simplicity and gladness of the characters, and the love of Pollyanna.
I honestly love their married relationship together, it's the cutest!One of my favourite quotes in the book was that moment when she was sharing with a friend, about her struggles growing up as a little girl and that it wasn't (and still isn't) always easy to be "cheerful" & it isn't because she is so different from others.
Beautiful book detailing the married life of Pollyanna and the ways they grew and loved each other through the challenges of marriage. Really kept the spirit of the original Pollyanna.
I am having great fun reading these Pollyanna books. I never realized there had been so many written about Pollyanna, with so many different authors sharing the penning of the stories. This one was sweet - and really keeps the idea of how playing the Glad Game can benefit every one of us. I love pollyanna. This one was a particularly good story. Such a "refreshing" read.
I read this in junior high, about where Pollyanna & Jimmy Bean get married & start a family. I still haven't read any previous Pollyanna books, just seen the Disney movie from the 1960s, w/ Haley Mills. I'd always liked the movie as a kid (despite how other people say someone is a "Pollyanna", like it's a bad thing), so I thought I'd read the book, once I found it.
I read this one so long ago in my early teens (40+ years - really?) but I did not recall it was not written by Eleanor Porter! Definitely time to read it again! I think this was the one with the exploding tomatoes! I still remember that after all these years - I think!
Loved the book!
Το λατρεύω, το λατρεύω, το λατρεύω, τι και αν είναι παιδική λογοτεχνία! μιλάει στην ψυχή μου όπως την πρώτη φορά που το διάβασα, όπως τότε που ήμουν κοριτσάκι 11 ετών! Η Πολλυάννα παντρεμένη πια, μετακομίζει σε μια μεγάλη πόλη και αναγκάζεται χωρίς πολλά λεφτά και παρέες να προσαρμοστεί στην νέα της ζωή παρέα με τον αγαπημένο της τζιμ..φυσικά ποτέ δεν ξεχνά να κάνει το καλό και σε όσους την έχουν ανάγκη και πάντα ξέρει να γεμίζει τις κενές της ώρες με το παιχνίδι της χαράς! το αγαπημένο μου από την σειρά αυτή
I found this book at an antique store and was so excited to read it! It is a bit funny and not too slow. Not a lot happens in the book either, but reading about Polyanna's first year being married is kind of fun. It's not a book you sit and devour wondering what happens next, but it's nice to pick up and read a chapter or two before bed, it's a happy, or should I say glad book.
