https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113292.The_French_Quarter
If contemplating whether to read "The French Quarter: An Informal History of the New Orleans Underworld," consider first this fact about the book's author, Herbert Asbury: Asbury's initial fame came in 1926 when H.L. Mencken published in Mencken's magazine, "The American Mercury," an article by Asbury about a small-town Missouri prostitute who serviced her Protestant customers in a Catholic cemetery, and vice-versa.
Mencken's magazine sales subsequently skyrocketed across the country, and Asbury's renown was assured.Asbury brings the same (in)sensibilities required to write for national publication an article about a strumpet plying her trade in pastoral cemeteries to "The French Quarter." Reading other reviews will amply inform prospective readers regarding this wonderful book's stories about New Orleans, and how Asbury spins them so well for his audience.
This is an excellent book on New Orleans/Louisiana history. I found it engaging and enjoyed learning more background on this area and time period. It was enjoyable to read something published in 1936 because it prompted me to look into different definitions of words and actions. I wonder how someone writing about the same period would express themselves today?
I love reading this book, and I understand now why New Orleans is the way it is.
The original settlers survived through much, in addition to what was going on around the country.
Also if you read carefully, Asbury leaves some tributaries that, if followed, would run off into the larger ideas of the development of a style of cuisine and music, that exists nowhere else in the world and would not have existed if New Orleans did not develop the way it has been and continues to do so.
Everyone who loves New Orleans should probably read this highly entertaining book at least once, despite its historical shortcomings. Asbury's account of the birth of jazz, for example, is nonsense. His research has the feel of someone who has spent a lot of time burrowing through the newspaper morgues at the New Orleans Public Library, but to his credit he managed to turn his labors into one of the best compendiums of Crescent City mayhem, smut, and murder ever collected between two covers.
I bought this book at the wonderful Gift Shop for The Historic New Orleans Collection Museum in The French Quarter.
It covers specific topics in each chapter, in depth.
The chapters on Jean Lafitte and pirates of the Mississippi was one of my favorites.Be forewarned that this book was written in the 1930's, so the language used regarding race and women may be jarring until you remember you are reading a historical account.
Also this is not a sequel to The Gangs of New York as is stated on the cover, but a stand alone book.
At times, Asbury seems sympathetic to people of color in the city; at others, their essential inferiority to people of European lineage appears to be taken as a given.
Ned Sublette, in his excellent book "The World that Made New Orleans" suggests very much the opposite.
Asbury does an excellent job of exploring the strange and seedy side of New Orleans, from its earliest days through the end of the red light district known as Storyville.
For me -- given my purpose for reading the book to begin with -- it was.
Each chapter fleshes out an aspect and time in the history of New Orleans’ criminal underworld from ruffians on the Mississippi River, pirates in the Gulf of Mexico, corruption in government, and more.Although Asbury’s facts are at times shaky particularly in regards to his very brief description of the birth of Jazz, The French Quarter is a treat to those who enjoy true crime and history.
There are many other volumes on similar themes that run the gambit between the salacious to dry, but Asbury’s The French Quarter manages to combine facts and folklore into an enjoyable account of the Crescent City’s dark side.
This is a breezy, well-written, non-academic history of the French Quarter and New Orleans generally -- literary equivalent perhaps to the best of the city's tourist tours.
It is full of charming and outrageous anecdotes of all kinds and colorful characters from madames to politicians to thugs.
Due to its age, there are a few politically incorrect musings, but overall the text comes across as relatively modern--particularly in the treatment of the wily and thuggish women/madames.Needless perhaps to say, the focus is virtually entirely on the seedy side of the Quarter.
Hence, you get what you paid for -- a little titillation, a few laughs, some outrage--and a desire to check out the tour and have a cocktail.
Published in 1936, it covers the entire history of New Orleans (not just the "underworld").
I got such a different perspective on the history of the US (Aaron Burr wasn't such a patriot) and how rough the original settlers really were.
The books covers the history of trade and shipping on the Mississippi - from pole barges to steam ships - and the violent people who manned them.
These people fought viciously - biting off noses and ears.
It does cover the bars, brothels, and gambling houses as well as the development of civilization (really there was none really until the 20th century).
Cool, fun read. Great for Native New Orleanians
And it's a chronicle of the underworld of New Orleans, not a history of the city per se.
. (Native Americans are not prominently mentioned -- not sure if that's just a reflection of Asbury's emphasis on the New Orleans underworld).The mafia and even the Spanish Inquisition (which no one suspects) play a role alongside river thieves, brothel owners, gamblers, and all the rest.
Especially striking are the number of women who appear in roles as brothel owners, thieves, and murderers.Not a page-turner but a book that will give you a broader perspective on the history of New Orleans.
A lot of incredible things have occurred in New Orleans since its establishment so this book is chock full of interesting tales, yet I found this languished in areas and breezed over some really exciting people and moments in history (Marie Leveau in only a page and a half?!).
This may be a product of trying to fit too much within one book but at times it feels repetitive (it didn't need several full pages of prostitutes ads when they're all "same same but different"), at others it's just glorified name dropping of many, many (many many) people and streets and their significance or stories are never explained.
Very interesting history book. Some details of New orleans history were not mentioned, like the Sazerac Cocktail and the Ramos Gin Fizz in the drinking section. Surprised that drinks so famously associated with NOLA were not covered. The book was pretty dark and focused on the more steamier side of NOLA history. I found it entertaining and educational. I will keep it for future reference.
While it is true that Herbert Asbury's books don't really separate the urban legends from the history, they are still fabulously entertaining and have become part of the cultural traditions of the cities they chronicle.
A difficult read, in that it was more of a text book than novel, but full of interesting facts and characters. A great history of the bawdy side of New Orleans's history.
This is a lengthy, but interesting and often entertaining book about the history of New Orleans' underworld.
The author takes us from the 17th Century up to what was, for him, the present day of the 1930s with anecdotes, data, and even newspaper reproductions to show us what life was like during the area's colorful past.Asbury's research is impeccable, and he most certainly takes the reader with him on a journey.
I bought this book on a recent trip to New Orleans to serve as research for my own work, and it was a very good choice indeed.
If the book had just focused on the underworld and not the historical connotations this book would have done a lot better.
He fails to mention the Corsican mob in this novel and also the FLQ was not mentioned in this book either which dealt extensively in the heroin trade in French Quarter for decades.
I felt like this book was scattered and had spotty research and many underpinned assumptions even though most of the Anglo-American and Sicilian crime in the book was true, the book was without voice and was a bland city biography.
An average book, it will do fine for the regular crime researcher, but a very lacking book as well.
This book is by the same guy who wrote Gangs of New York and examines the criminal underbelly of the Crescent City going back to the Spanish colonial times. Sometimes it's a little hard to separate fact from fiction, but it seems well informed. I read this before I went there and had a different appreciation for the different neighborhoods and streets now crowded with tourists. Seems like this would make a good Scorcese movie too.
This book was good. It wasn't however what i expected and that is why I gave it 3 stars. Honestly the amount of research and work that went into its construction deserve more. However the book is marketed as an informal history and references "The Gangs of New York" also by this author. However instead of the historofictional setting in "Gangs" this piece is more of a guide book or history book. It's interesting but by no means a page turner.
The book is mis-titled (it happens all over New Orleans), at times over sensationalized, and disjointed, but wildly entertaining, complete with a gallery of rogues, villains, low-lifes, and even the occasional romantic figure. I wish there was some discussion of the decline of New Orleans criminality, but you can't have it all.
What I learned from this book about America's most fascinating city immeasurably enhanced my understanding of New Orleans. Published in the 1930s, this book focuses on the most lurid aspects of New Orleans, from the prostitutes to the murders, from the race riots to the slave auctions, from the public tortures to the pirates. Indispensable!
I started this book thinking it would have a lot of info on Madame LaLaurie, it didn't, only about 3 pages. It is a very good read for a good indepth look at how the French Quarter came to be, going back to the Spaniards up until the mid 1800s.I gave it a 3 star because although historically interesting it is a slooooow read.
This was a good book for me to read. I have never known anything about New Orleans except for Hurricane Katrina. So getting some information of the goings on and some back story of the Red Light District and the crime history was very interesting to me.
Do you know what it means to miss New Orleans? I often do, so I picked up this book. Unfortunately, it is dry. How can a place of such spirit, debased fun and naughty history come across like a AAA trip guide? Just drive there and experience the quarter yourself.
An interesting but uneven account of the French Quarter and the history of crime in New Orleans. It was written 70 years ago, which accounts for the somewhat bizarre characterizations of the denizens of this area.
Considering Asbury's interest in the underworld, he seems to have found little of it in New Orleans. The book is more of a travel guide to the city ca. 1915 than an exploration into the underworld.
Many stories regarding the hustles and crimes taking place in the French Quarter that my parents often spoke about were confirmed when I read this book. An interesting look at a city that has many faces, this being one of them. A local girl.
A rambling though entertainingly lurid and sensationalistic history of the New Orleans underworld by the author of Gangs of New York, filled with tall tales and other exaggerations though also a surprising amount of valid historical research.
the origins of the vice of new orleans including stories of river brawlers, harlots, crooked politicians, voodoo queens, and Storyville.
Anything by Herbert Asbury is an entertaining read.... it's good for hearing a dubious anecdote to cities we love...
