https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/596633.India_s_Struggle_for_Independence
- Cultural and social aspects are touched but mostly to support the authors biased inferences.
But if one follows the period deeply and analytically refusing to accept the opinionated inferences presented by the authors, it will be clear that freedom came to India when colonialism was anyway ending from everywhere in the world.
Congress largely and Gandhi in particular served well to their British masters and led the unsuspecting nation to compromises that only helped to delay and diffuse the freedom struggle.
Even an extremely biased and opinionated book like this cannot spin it well to lead the readers to the authors point of view.
The book is quit intense , It's has 39 chapters and almost all catering to distinct events .
After reading i am embarrassed to admit how less i knew about our freedom struggle .
It's isn't a GK book with who when what sort of details ,though much more than it .
Chapters on rise of communalism is a must read for everyone
One of the best history books I have read so far. Indian modern history has never been so interesting for me before.It not only state facts but also gives a justified analysis of the same. Explains action of all the important leaders very clearly and tells the reader what exactly made them do it. You actually can picture the era frame-wise with this style of writing. This is also a great book for understanding Mahatma Gandhi and finally justifying why he is “The father of our Nation”.  A must read for all the history enthusiasts.
We just know that Justice Ranade, Dadabhai Naoroji, Pherozeshah Mehta, Gopal Krishna Gokhale and Bal Gangadhar Tilak played a crucial role in early stages of the freedom movement, but how exactly that happened is not touched upon at all!This book by Bipan Chandra sheds light on all of these people and introduces us to many aspects of India's freedom struggle that we wouldn't come across otherwise.
And I was also really impressed by the amount of background stories that Chandra has included for each of the leaders, it made the book much more personal than the dreary historical tomes on Indian history that we read in school.
Good coverage, but more than history it sounded like an apology. It doesn't consider that Indian independence coincided with the weakening of the British Empire post WW II. Hence, independence is completely concluded to be a result of struggle of Indian leaders. At times the writers tend to extrapolate and give moral evaluations in place of a facts based analysis.
Partly because it makes reading the same things that you believe you know, interesting, more like a sweeping cinematic recreation of the eventful period of Indian history, only lacking the audio-visual element which can be extremely well substituted by your imagination facilitated by authors' amazing narration.
Highly recommended for anyone interested in History and a must-read for those preparing for the Indian Civil Services' examination.
(While some may argue that it's biased towards Congress, and it could very well be for some, but then INC was indeed an extremely active and popular body during the freedom struggle, and most of the events of the struggle were directly or indirectly associated with INC.)
This is the second book by this same set of authors that I have read and just like the first one – ‘India Since Independence’ – this book also stands as a glaring testimony to the author’s/authors’ parochial attitude towards Congress.While I am not one of those growing majority who take special pleasure in bashing Gandhi, Nehru and innumerable Congressmen who had given their all for the freedom struggle, what I cannot accept is projecting Congress as the one and only organization that brought freedom to the country.
A brilliant book, probably the best in it's category especially because of the approach adopted by the author. This book does not merely state bare facts but throws in a detailed analysis of various events even though it may seem bit biased to INC. I really enjoyed a portion which deeply analysed how a person who started as the 'Ambassador of Hindu Muslim Unity' ended up by demanding Pakistan which I felt worth special mention.A must read book.
This is the first major study to examine every one of the varied strands of the epic struggle individually and collectively and present it in a new and coherent narrative and analytical framework. Basing themselves on oral and other primary sources and years of research, the authors take the reader through every step of the independence struggle from the abortive Revolt of 1857 to the final victory of 1947. More important while incorporating existing historiographical advances, the book evolves a new and lucid view of the history of the period which will endure.
India's struggle for independence by Bipan Chandra - सरकारी इतिहास -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------इतिहास लिखना आसान काम नहीं। खासतौर पर भारत की आजादी की लड़ाई का। यूं तो बहुत से लेखको ने भारत के सवाधीनता संगराम पर लिखा है। लेकिन उनमे सबसे जयादा खयाति बिपन चनदर जी ने ही पायी है। आज ये किताब इस विषय पर सबसे परामाणिक मानी जाती है। सरकारी पैसे या सभय शबदो मे गवरमेंट फंडस की मदद से बिपन जी एवं उनके साथियों ने सालों रिसरच, ढेर सारे साकषातकार,
India's struggle for independence by Bipan Chandra - सरकारी इतिहास ---------------------------------
This is the first real book on the history of Indian independence struggle that I have read so that does raise doubts about rating it - a history book - without having anything else to draw comparison from.
This is why it didn't seem fair to give it 5 stars.But otherwise this is a very good book that gives quite a clear insight into the freedom struggle.
Had it not been for the clear understanding about India’s socio-economic realities and needs by the leaders of the movement and their vision for the future of the country India would have ended up being another Pakistan.I would recommend this book for everyone who wants to know and understand Indian independence movement.
This book is a must read for anyone who wants to get an insight in India's freedom struggle, the leadership and the ideological dimension of the same that made this struggle one of the most celebrated ones of our time.
It demolishes some of the most widespread and ill-informed myths and misunderstandings related to the same, buttressed with credible facts - the reference section of the book is 43 pages long!!Surely, there must be another book that tells this same story from a more centre-right point of view, that will complement this book, and I will now be looking for it.
Its not a history of India's struggle for independence...but history of Congress masquerading as India sole mover for independence.......a good intro for a layperson not acquainted with the diversity called India and its struggle.
Profound reaserch & deep noesis of the authors make this book into a must read category for the every indian nationals.
The author seems more biased towards INC. Other than that the book was a masterpiece.
Some claim that the book is a little biased towards the moderates. But I find no merit in that argument. It is an elaborate book with detailed analysis on how and why the things unfolded the way they did.
A few leaders like Dadabhai Naoroji, Lokmanya Tilak, GK Gokhale, Pherozeshah Mehta and others devoted their whole lives to instil the sentiment of belonging to one nation i.e. India where everyone will be equal and free from the oppressive British rule.
To imagine that there was no unified India before the British occupation gives us the jitters and that only justifies the 30 years spent to nurture the nationalistic self-respect which is a pre-requisite for any independence struggle.The book also covers the rise of communism and socialism in the country and the effect of the Russian revolution of 1917 on the leftists.
The author has carelessly dealt with the following two designs1) The author very conveniently tries to move away from the contributions of Subhash Chandra Bose in the freedom struggle.
Either the author believes the contribution of a man named Subhash might have needed such limited proportions or has conveniently tried to bury stories of a man already thrown into oblivion.2) Ultimately as a conclusion the book points every single problem leading to the partition of India on one man Jinnah.
The author has gracefully dealt with every single story on the struggle and kept the pace to match the turning of pages.
This book is written by five authors,in their respective areas of specialization because of which some chapters may have very distinct identity and also with different degree of interest; but passion of writers about history of Indian independence struggle is very much evident in their research.The bias for congress is palpable in every chapter.
Unfailingly writer has in each chapter explained position of congress, as if showing it was incessantly struggling solely for freedom.
i started this because i thought i must know cost of my freedom and of course first time i realized how history can teach so much to you.
and how it repeats it so many times and u never know it.
It has been written in totally informative way so sometimes it become boring to read it.
but it give you a totally balanced and unbiased account of almost every event which have been part and parcel of our path to freedom.
the other interesting thing was the two way policy of British rulers of divide and rule from very early time of their regime .
1) Very good book.
Informative & Interesting.2) It is told in a story format, which makes it easy for everybody to read this book.
The book keeps readers interested3) Not just mentioning what happened, but this book also talks why it was to be done so.
or Is partition avoidable?
In case it was not avoidable, could violence be prevented?
This is the most important feature of this book.4) Little Congress biased.
Okay, I don't have any biases towards any political or ideological organization, but this bias is evident in some chapters.
I just felt, that Subhash's side of the story wasn't justly represented in that Cripps Mission chapter.
Bit of biased towards Congress.
All the events described will be in and around congress and its activists.
They should describe the events in an unbiased manner and leave the opinion to readers.
Instead, in the whole book you find the authors opinion on how congress struggled so much in gaining independence to India.
It doesn't mean it excluded other facts, though most of the events are presented, they are not properly presented and are not given enough importance.
This book is just for reference, I don't recommend it if one wants to know about history of India.
The book is actually 'Congress' (or Gandhi's) struggle for independence. But, having said that, it is a superb work that covers almost all aspects of the struggle. If i may say so, in this regard, he may be even better than Guha.Also the chapter on Jinnah is a gem. For the first time an author could explain to me Jinnah's political trajectory.PS:- 'Raj' by Lawrence James is another superb book that gives British POV. Also, a balanced political view is in MJ Akbar's Nehru which is also very well-written.
This is my favourite book for understanding India's struggle to gain Independence from the British. Unlike regular history books, this book doesn't merely state bare facts but elucidates the facts in light of correlations and equations existing at the time, between the power players who were steering this Struggle. This is also a great book for understanding Mahatma Gandhi and his role as the symbol as well as the leader of the Indian struggle, both as a political guru and a human being; and why, for all his stated fallibleness, he deserved to be called the Mahatma.
This book gave me very detailed analysis on the history of India. It was a bit biased toward Mahatma Gandhi however it did mention many other key figures in the Indian Independence Movement such as Jawaharlal Nehru. This book significantly aided me in my research paper and I would recommend it to anyone who want an interesting history of India.
Though the writer is left-inclined which is manifested in the script, still, the unfolding of all those cardinal events of freedom struggle are unravelled in a delicate but exhaustive manner. Definitely worth reading to get the hang of our cherished freedom struggle and more of the people who lay forth their lives to achieve it.
the book gives different perspectives of India's struggles for independencethough it covers a wide range of topics but is a bit biased towards the Nehruvian eraThis book can be read as a supplement for modern Indian history
amazing...... must read for indian history lovers....
Subtly biased towards Congress but still a good book to know about the intricacies of the freedom struggle.
A great book for a leisure reading as well as competition exams.
