https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47525.The_Magicians_of_Caprona
this wonderful little series about multiple dimensions, magic, and the trans-dimensional authority on magic known as the "Chrestomanci" has been a real light in my life whenever i open up a new book.
Chrestomanci himself only appears in an extended and rather bland cameo - which makes sense because Chrestomanci himself has been portrayed as a nice and rather bland man who prefers not to be at the center of things.so the novel features a Romeo and Juliet-ish love affair, formidable cats that are key members of their respective casas, griffins coming alive (sorta), a magical street battle between the houses, a shifty Duchess, a childlike Duke, lots of loud "Italian" style (i suppose) communication and combativeness and warmth, children being shrunk to the size of puppets, and war on the horizon.
There are even books I have got more likes for rating than I got for reviewing this one :)This is the second Chrestomanci book I've read to my daughter Celyn - there seems to be some confusion about the order of the books, but they appear to be self-contained and the order is perhaps unimportant.It's a good book, not a great book.
The dozens of aunts, uncles, cousins, brothers and sisters bustle into almost every scene and dilute the connect we're trying to forge with the main character/s.
This was the first book by DWJ that I ever read.
I stumbled on it by accident in the library when I was a kid, and it was the kind of book I would stay up all night reading and then feel sad when I got to the last page.
(I still read like that sometimes, but it's pretty rare to find books I can be that excited about).Really, instead of going on and on about this writer, I will say that these are the books JK Rowling WISHES she could have written.
This story grows on you, the characters do, the worlds do, and now that I'm finished I want to go back to them!My favorite parts of this book have to be the ridiculous magical bits like the cardboard horses and the cardboard coach, and of course the silly rivalry between the Petrocchis and the Montanas.
Thia book was definitely inspired by Romeo and Juliet, but I really enjoyed Jones's spin on it.If I had any issues they would be that the writing is a bit slow and impersonal if that makes any sense.
Istina je da moja ljubav prema Dajani Vin Džouns ne zna za granice. Takođe je istina da to nije zasnovano na ovoj knjizi :) Nemojte me pogrešno shvatiti, u pitanju je zaista ljubak roman sa divnim metatekstualnim poigravanjem sa Šekspirom i smislenim konceptom magije i razumno visokim ulozima (možda čak previsokim za dečji roman) i lukavo provučenim ozbiljnim temama, ali nije genijalno uvrnuto remekdelo kao neke njene druge knjige. Ok, to je stvarno nefer kritika, znam.
“Without the proper words, any spell is only at half force, even if it is of divine origin.” The Dukedom of Caprona is kept safe under the protection of the Golden Angel and its strongest magical families; the Casa Montana and Casa Petrocchi. Unfortunately, the families have been feuding for generations and with that, the true spell of the Golden Angel lost. Now a war threatens on all sides of Caprona and while the families throw blame at each other, young Tonino Montana decides to take action
The Dukedom of Caprona is kept safe under the protection of the Golden Angel and its strongest magical families; the Casa Montana and Casa Petrocchi.
Now a war threatens on all sides of Caprona and while the families throw blame at each other, young Tonino Montana decides to take action with the help of the family cat Benvenuto.
I quite liked the Italian setting and once again, Diana Wynne Jones delivers a wonderful cat character in Benvenuto.
Where some of DWJ's other books employ a tight POV, this one has such a broad lens -- beginning with the entire city of Caprona and the Montana family, and then switching off vaguely between Tonino and Paolo -- that I never felt terribly invested in anyone's fates, nor did I have any doubts about them and their fates, since the plot is so formulaic and involves a literal angel vs.
I had a hard time with Gwendolen in  Charmed Life, because she was a paragon of bratty ambition and abuse of power.
"Self," I counseled myself, "female charactersare allowed to be brattily ambitious and abuse power too." It still felt like a gendered stereotype to me, but then Janet showed up and was Gwendolen's good doppleganger.
Read February 2015Re-read January 2017THIS BOOK! IT'S EVEN BETTER ON RE-READ. ESPECIALLY RE-READING ALOUD. BUT BUT THE FUUUN. OH MY GOODNESS. XD AND AWESOME ITALIAN FANTASY (!!!). AND SHENANIGANS. AND FUN DIALOG. AND DIANA WYNNE JONES. AND CHRESTOMANCI WHO IS AMAZING.JUSTJUSTTHE CHRESTOMANCI BOOKS THOUGH. <3333THAT IS ALL.
Add to this some intelligent cats (Benvenuto!) and you have all the ingredients of another classic by DWJ.My problems with this book, I think, are all personal, and they start with the plain fact that The Lives of Christopher Chant aside, I'm not fond of the Chrestomanci books.
DWJ dresses it up beautifully, but this is a very basic story that boils down to two feuding families that have to work together to save their city.
The thing is, the dressing-up is indeed beautiful, and there's nothing wrong with the story; I just want something different.
--- The Magicians of Caprona ~ Penyihir-Penyihir Caprona ---Plot: Mudah tertebak sekaligus tidak mudah tertebak.Penokohan: Hubungan antar-tokohnya paling bagus ^^.Gaya bercerita: Ok.Novel fantasi ini akan membawa pembacanya terjun ke dunia dimana sihir adalah sesuatu yang umum.
Saya memiliki beberapa dugaan awal mengenai jalannya plot, dan diantara itu ternyata saya cuma bisa menebak tepat mengenai antagonisnya XD (yang sebenarnya bisa makin misterius kalau kovernya tidak begitu sih haha).Sejujurnya, poin utama kesukaan saya di buku ini terletak di hubungan antar tokohnya.
susunan manusianya seakan tercetak kembar.Penjelasan adegannya yang berhubungan dengan sihir perlu saya baca sampai dua kali karena bingung.
She gets us dizzy with lists of names, describes all aunts as "fat" and "massive", switches point of view multiple times--in one instance putting us in the eyes of the brother of the main character, which wouldn't be much of an issue except that she has also listed about 15 other brothers, cousins, sisters, aunts, uncles, great-aunts, and grandparents-- and then repeats it with the 'enemy family', and forces us to sit through repetitive feuding dialogue.
Tedious.The most gripping part of the book was the strangely underused communication between the main character and the family cat.
Magicians of Caprona is classic Jones: intricate, quirky, complicated (in a really great way), packed with complex characters - most of whom never act like they are "supposed to." I kept wondering - as I often do when reading her books - where these magical, marvelous ideas of hers come from.
Not a novel for stuffy old grown ups like me - Jones worshipper that I am - but for nine and ten and eleven year olds.
That is what is particularly amazing about Jones: she always understood what children - especially children who love to read - wanted to read about, and never underestimated them.
Padahal sebelumnya, kota yang dilindungi oleh Malaikat Caprona, yang dibantu oleh dua klan penyihir terbesar di Caprona ini, Casa Montana dan Casa Petrocchi, berada dalam kedamaian.Tampaknya ada sebuah kekuatan dari luar yang berusaha untuk menguasai Caprona.
Jadi, pasti ada enchanter yang sangat kuat yang berusaha untuk mengobrak-abrik Caprona.Sebelumnya, mari kita berkenalan dengan Casa Montana dan Casa Petrocchi.
Dan yang kedua, ada enchanter musuh yang menyelinap di Caprona (bahkan mungkin bekerja sama dengan keluarga Petrocchi) dan berusaha untuk menguasai kota itu.Untungnya, Tonino diselamatkan oleh Benvenuto, yang angkuh, liar, dan tak pernah dekat dengan siapapun.
Or maybe not.I liked how the magic came through singing.
In any case, the aspect of magic explored here was very neat.The Punch & Judy scene is magnificent.
But, perhaps there wasn’t more detail because Chrestomanci didn’t quite know what Tonino could do, himself.Overall,The Magicians of Caprona uses a different aspect of magic that we haven’t seen yet from the world of Chrestomanci.
The Punch & Judy scene is creepy and terrifying (and wonderful), but is also a big moment for Tonino.
I liked this quite a bit better than Witch Week, character-wise, but the ending left a little to desire.
I'm doing the best I can to read them in chronological order - that is, in the order they were written, not in an order they were connected in after the fact.In this book, the take on magic is through music: the characters all sing their spells in the Mediterranean city state of Caprona.
Just about the only thing remarkable about Tonino is that he can understand the Montana alpha male tomcat, Benvenuto, who is so steeped in magic that he is considered an august councilor for the family.
This third installment of The Chronicles Of Chrestomanci was by far my most favorite (I haven’t read the rest yet).
This time, the story is about the two greatest magical families in the country of Caprona, the Montanas and the Petrocchis, who have been enemies since hundreds of years ago.As always, this has been a fun read.
The world she created as well as the magical part was very vivid that I can easily imagine the whole story.
While reading, I can even imagine The Magicians Of Caprona as an animated movie that I will watch again and again.
The Chrestomanci books are always a bit harder to review because comparing them to the other books in the series is almost impossible.
I liked The Magicians of Caprona a lot, it was a really wonderful story and I know I would have loved this story if I had read it as a child.
The story of the two rival families was so well done, and the way the magic worked in this book was amazing.(view spoiler)[ I absolutely loved the scene where the two families are having a big magical battle, the way it was described chilled me.
Once again, Diana Wynne Jones has thoroughly impressed me, this time with a wonderful story about a boy who lives in the Italy of one of the Chrestomanci worlds.
It is up to Tonino and his reluctant ally, Angelica Petrocchi, to find the words to the tune about the Angel of Caprona, stop the war, and end the feud.Diana Wynne Jones did a great job of telling the story through the eyes of Tonino, who sees serious problems through the eyes of a child and goes about solving them in his own way.
I really liked Tonino as well as Angelica.
Here's what I don't get: The book is called WOrld's of CHrestomanci Magician's of Caprona.
There's like one reference to him in the way that someone would reference Aunt Maria cooking Porkchops on the weekend; and yet somehow the book is not called World's of Aunt Maria Magician's of Caprona.This bothers me (not the dis-inclusion of Aunt Maria).
But yes, I get that its a kids book.The first few chapters are ..
AFter those first chapters, the rest of it has a lilt to it that makes the story have an easy rhythm to follow along with.I don't like the whole "power of friendship" vibe its got at the end either.
Diana Wynne Jones has a very distinct style, fun and magical and complex, so much so that at times it's a little confusing.
And I like it a lot.
This book was entertaining and enjoyable, just as I had come to expect from a book by her.
It's just that the ending seemed a bit - not abrupt - but as if something more is supposed to happen; I'm not sure if I get this feeling because it's a part of a series.
Anyhow, I can't wait to conrinue the series, and find out if there is really an overarching factor that connects between the lot of them...
I loved this book. Everything about it was fascinating. It was narrated by Gerard Doyle, who does a great job on the characters and always leaves me hanging on every word.It is too bad that the ratings are lower than the book deserves. It seems the chief complaint is that the book is part of the Chrestomanci series and Chrestomanci (a character in the story) only has a couple of short appearances.
Kind of like Romeo and Juliet, only, you know, with everyone's favorite fancy-pants foppish enchanter waltzing around and informing everyone how ridiculous they are. Well, except for the Romeo and the Juliet, who actually had some sense in this particular permutation of the concept, along with a handful of DWJ's usual resourceful children. That is to say: kind of like Romeo and Juliet, but actually enjoyable.
I think this is my favorite Diana Wynn Jones book yet. She truly is a remarkable storyteller. These books are good in an old-fashioned kind of way that reminds me of C.S. Lewis or E. Nesbitt or Joan Aiken (my childhood favorite) but also modern in a way that reminds me of Neil Gaiman (who writes in the blubs that her books are "always perfectly magical.") They are perfectly magical, and always perfectly believable too.
Romeo + Juliet + Dirty & Messy Spells + Jones's Humor - Tragedyand a guest appearance of Crestomanci himself ^^The only thing that give this book off is the Indonesian cover version.. I mean, come on, everyone could tell who the main culprit is from the cover alone...Gramedia is so disappointing lately...
I remember reading this and not enjoying it the first time round because of all the conflict and I'm a wimp who likes happy hour always. I was quite young then. Reread a couple years ago and still that feeling was there faintly. I definitely enjoyed it more.The two youngest of the clans/families are the winners for best characters here.Man I need to read this again
A very engaging read. Wish I'd read this as a 12 year old. I would have had such a great time with it. The cover of this edition is simply awful. Couldn't be much worse. It's almost enough to upset one's reading experience! The internal chapter head vignettes are much better, simple, stylised line drawings.
My least favorite Chrestomanci book. The best part is easily the what-if-Romeo-and-Juliet-weren't-idiots subplot, where they deceive their families easily. And the part where each family is really proud of even the less-talented younger child.
I think Diana Wynne Jones is my favourite author. I can go back to her books again and again and again, they are never disappointing and they ALWAYS make me happy. No adult realisation of any lack of literary merit has yet managed to spoil my deep and sincere enjoyment.
Mungkin kebingungan saya muncul karena belum pernah coba karya Diana Wynne Jones yang lainnya, tapi hal ini harusnya bukan jadi masalah untuk novel yang narasinya berdiri sendiri.
Pembaca jadi tidak bisa mengikuti logika narasinya, dan hanya bisa manggut-manggut pasrah sambil bilang "yoweis lah, yang penting beres." Terlepas soal sihir, hubungan sebab-akibat di novel ini memang terasa aneh, misalnya sewaktu...(view spoiler)[....tokoh utamanya bisa langsung tahu apa yang terjadi dan siapa yang bertanggungjawab hanya dengan melihat ekspresi biang keladinya.
Walaupun karakter-karakternya terlampau banyak untuk ukuran novel sepanjang ini dan terkesan tumpang tindih, saya cukup bisa menikmati saat fokusnya menyempit pada interaksi satu-lawan-satu.
The second book of Diana Wynne Jones’s fantasy, the Chrestomanci series, is a very different book from its predecessor.
I couldn’t quite follow the significance of the Angel of Caprona, variously a statue, a song, and a symbol, and how the city has lost the words written on the scroll on the statue, which is up to Tonino and Paolo, together with the magical cat, Benvenuto, to recover, and it needs to be done quickly or else it means the city will fall or something.
