https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43814.The_Vampire_Lestat
I joined the Marines in 89 and while watching a movie about a teenage vampire it was mentioned that Dracula is 'good literature'.
The book engendered a question within me that never found any sunlight growing up a protestant in the Deep South.
With no reading, history, or even exposure to any philosophy (Arkansas public school after all) I now asked questions about ethics, the nature of God, what is beauty, morality, and more.
A lot of that was set afire because of reading this book.
Lestat might not be a being of light (that's another topic) but his darkness is illuminating.This is one of my favorite books ever.
Dear Anne Rice:NOT WORTHY.Signed, All Fictional Vampires Who Are Not LestatThis was a re-read for me, but in all honesty, I don't think I was ready for this book the first time I read it.
Lestat, of course, Rice's 'brat prince', arrogant and compassionate and impossible, all at the same time -- he'd be enough to carry any book, imo, but the secondary characters are just as layered and bewitching, probably because we see them through Lestat's eyes.
Nicki and his endless internal darkness; Armand, who manages to be both tragic and terrifying; Gabrielle, who seems like a force of nature; and even Louis, the whiny, unreliable narrator from Interview comes off as beautiful and mysterious, the star-crossed love of Lestat's afterlife.
y Lestat lo hará mejor y más grande, no solo contara su biografía sino que se volverá una estrella de rock, le dirá adiós al anonimato y hola a la fama, y el mundo conocerá finalmente su verdadera historia… Lestat nos contara su vida, desde los comienzos siendo un mortal, su relación con su familia, en especial su madre, su primer amor, sus sueños de teatro y su vida como actor, hasta el inevitable momento de su transformación, donde todo queda de cabeza.
Meyer is a good writer, but once you've met Anne's Vampires, you're never going back.
This second book in the series wasn't disappointing, although I feared it might be, after reading the amazing 'Interview With The Vampire'.
It was also quite interesting, since I read this book after I'd seen the movie 'Queen of the Damned', which is based on this book and the next book.
I can't wait to read 'The Queen of the Damned'.
I own all of the books in this series and it's about time that I finish them all.
So Lestat sets the record straight and tells the tale of his life as a vampire.When people say this is better than Interview with the Vampire, they are not kidding.
But honestly, those are nitpicks - I enjoyed myself thoroughly with this book.Lestat is a WAY better protagonist than Louis.
He is a passionate being - he cares enormously for Nikola and Louis (some of the sweetest interactions in the book) and his mother (though his love for her gets a bit creepy in the "I don't think we should be kissing our MOM this way").
Gabrielle, Nikola, Marius, Armand, and even Louis all get dimension.
Lestat fue el primer vampiro del que me enamoré.
The glimpses of Lestat we have in Interview with the Vampire, of his relationship with his father, of the way he acts, of his charm that Louis finds both attractive and repulsive, of his love of bright artificial light and his desire to live luxuriously, of his friendship with a young musician, of his doting upon Claudia and showering her with gifts, of his fear to lose Louis, of him emotionally distraught and pleading with Louis to come back to him in Paris (which I didn't understand at the time), and finally of the frail, broken, and pitiful shadow of a man he has become by the end of Louis's story, where Louis finds him again in New Orleans.
3.5 stars !The vampire lestat is like lavender candy floss.addictive and a tad too sugarytoo little....you want to grab another sticky handfultoo much....a belly ache and tooth decaybeautiful to look at but melts to something hard when saliva is addedvery enjoyable but need time away or it may lead to self-combustionnext year will start volume 3
I loved these books in my 20s.
Anne takes us all the way up to Interview with the Vampire.
Lestat is a crazy maker, he likes trouble.
He did have a rough start as an immortal.I loved the tone of Anne's books.
Plus Lestat was Bisexual and he was one of the first characters I read that way.
it was a big deal for the 80s and 90s as there weren't many characters outside the norm.I still have a warm feeling when I think of these books.
I would like to read this series over someday.
He decides to write a book detailing his long life as a vampire.Lestat runs away with his lover when he is a young man.
One night Lestat is kidnapped and turned into a vampire by Magnus.
Lestat, not wanting to upset his loved ones decides to flee and leave them completely.
Armand tells Lestat to leave them alone while he runs out on an errand, and Lestat of course does not.Here’s the thing.
Listening to Lestat explain his side of the story about what transpired between Louis and him was quite comical.
Listening to how the vampires were made and meeting great characters like Armand and Marius was fantastic.
He puts out an album and to accompany this he writes his autobiography - revealing the story of his youth as well as the history of the race of vampires, which started 4000 years ago in Ancient Egypt.Some gleaned facts: Anne Rice loves the words: 'preternatural' and 'savage garden'.
In terms of the story I loved the opening and the end and a lot of the sequences in Paris, but a lot of the stuff in Ancient Egypt - the history of the vampires etc – I found rather boring.
A very original take on the vampire tale, complete with a sweeping history and rich locales. This was Rice at the top of her game.
This is my fourth reread (in 15 or so years, mind you) of The Vampire Lestat and honestly it gets better every time.
It's just incredible how well this book ages; like, it doesn't feel passé at all and is still very much up to date, even though it was written nearly 30 years ago!
Really, gothic literature doesn't get any better than this.
That said, let me add a caveat here: if long and detailed descriptions and somewhat rambling pseudo-philosophical/religious dialogues and inner dialogues are not your cup of tea, then perhaps this book is not for you.
Cuz, yeah, Anne Rice can be quite a bit of a rambler at times, you know.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Anne Rice's re-imagining of the "vampire" mythos is excellent and Lestat is on my list of "All Time Favorite" characters. As good as this novel is, the books that follow:The Queen of the Damned, The Tale of the Body Thief and Memnoch the Devil are even better. Highly Recommended? Nominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1986)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (1986)
It’s been nearly ten years since I first read this novel and I still find Lestat just as fierce and fascinating as ever! It’s of my opinion that he’s one of the most charismatic and contradictory characters ever created in literature.
Phew!!! Spent most of yesterday and some of today finishing this book. Very seductive read indeed, I do like how the author writes but from time to time I felt my concentration slipping because she goes on just that little bit more than is needed sometimes.
Knowing the plotting and the conclusion of Anne Rice's novel, I'm unlikely to go back to it.
But let that dissuade no one from giving this novel a first reading.If there are shortcomings in this book, they derive from Rice's tries at ontological philosophy.
For the most part, Rice moves the book at the right pace and proves, once more, that descriptive writing works great when it enhances the plot.
All such readers would be encouraged to review the last 15 pages of The Vampire Lestat; after 600 pages, Rice knows when to go full bore into description and make her novel's conclusion memorable.
Did I hear that right?! A tv show? With Bryan Fuller at the helm?How?What?When?Who?I just have one little insy bitsy thing to ask of you, Bryan:DON'T FUCK IT UP!or...
Oh Lestat de Lioncourt, how can you be this rebel, how dare you create such trouble while not giving a single thought to your actions. This is the second book on The Vampire Chronicles, and it is time for Lestat to tell his story. It starts in the year 1984 if my mind is not playing tricks on me, (wow, i just realized that i was reading this book at the same time with the book 1984. Isn't that weird? book set in 1984 while i was reading 1984... no?... but... are you sure?... not even a little?.
They thought it was really awesome that he came to them and told them he was Lestat from the book interview instead of other famous vampires like Dracula for example.
Anne Rice is a great author, her prose is gorgeous, the descriptions are beautiful, but i can't bring myself to really love her books, sometimes i feel like they drag way too much and i feel the pace so slow and that makes me stop enjoying the story for a greater part of the book.At the ending (view spoiler)[ Lestat gets in trouble because he published that book revealing all the secrets of the vampires, names, locations, everything and he's there being a rockstar, exposed to the world without keeping any secrets nor respecting vampire rules.
Was a 4 star but changed for personal reasons to a one.
4 StarsReview:Time for another super long review that no one will read!Things I Disliked/Things I Didn't Mind but Others Might Dislike:- The book was long, and between the flashbacks of Armand's and Marius's lives and Lestat's kind of long-winded way of talking about everything, the story moved forward at a very slow pace sometimes, which made me impatient.- A lot of the characters' actions and words were dramatic and/or strange to the point of being unrealistic, but somehow it just worked and never pulled me out of the story.- The parts about Lestat kissing and wanting to ravage his mother were...
It's a great novel, much more exciting than "Interview with the Vampire" and is ideal for all those fans of the vampire myth and good writing.Spanish version: Anne Rice es sin duda una de mis autoras favoritas pero como ya dije mi crítica para "Entrevista con el Vampiro", en mi opinión la saga de crónicas vampíricas se divide en dos partes; entrevista con el vampiro y el resto de libros, sobre todo por el evidente cambio en el punto de vista, en la primera el punto de vista recae en Louis mientras que en la segunda en Lestat.
He travels to Paris with his friend, Nicholas, to seek their fortunes but it's there that fate in the shape of the vampire, Magnus, finds him.
He will no longer know mortality.I have always been attracted to vampires whether it be books, movies, or even TV series such as Buffy, the Vampire Slayer.
I remember my daughters loving the Bunnicula series of books which were about a vampire bunny who sucked the juice out of vegetables, with titles like The Celery Stalks at MidnightI plan on continuing The Vampire Chronicles by Anne Rice.
I would recommend this series to anyone who is intrigued by vampires.
After reading Interview with the Vampire, Lestat decides that he wants to tell his own story in the form of a book, The Vampire Lestat.
I don't know if that's how it happened, but that's how it felt to me.So basically, if I had read this book independently, I probably would have given it 4 or 5 stars, but since it came after Interview with the Vampire and copied the narrative structure and completely changed Lestat's character, I can only give it three.
TL;DR - it's worth reading if you enjoy the franchise, the characters, and are willing to self-edit (that is, skip the repetitive expositions).Although I read this book when it was first published, and reread it a time or two in the intervening decades, most recently I "read" this book as an audio book, which is an interesting test for a book.
Detaching to look at the structure of the book, the tale within a tale is carried too far, and by the time Lestat meets up with Marius, I was snorting as I counted the layers, as we have Lestat, who tells us the tale of himself listening to Marius, as Marius relates the tale of Marius listening to the tale of the Egyptian priest, who relates the story of Those Who Must Be Kept.
This is the sequel to Interview with the Vampire, in which Lestat de Lioncourt awakens in the 1980s, reads Louis' account of the events in Interview with the Vampire, and decides to set the record straight.
Lestat takes us back to his upbringing as the son of a Marquis in France, where even as a mortal, he was in the thoes of an existential crisis, filled with the need to escape his family home.
This book takes the reader through his musings on the meaning of life, immortality, love, good and evil.
For this reason, I would say that it isn't an easy reading book, and you have to be in the mood to be contemplative.
In the sequel, Lestat gets a chance to 'set the record straight.' Reading HIS account on his life, and the years spent with Louis, he actually manages to gain sympathy, and he fully admits to being a brat prince of the undead, and you fall in love with this vampire who listens to Beethoven while riding a motorcycle down the moonlit streets.
Lestat has an ego so large, it is little wonder that he chooses to become a rock star and write a book accounting his long life story, because where else can you find that level of admiration and worship if not from center stage, with a microphone, in front of thousands of people cheering you on like at a concert?
Who else would write the book but Lestat himself?
Lo sé por que quedé tan fascinada con Armand y los suyos que decidí rastrear el cementerio y encontré un libro al respecto.
Más tarde, vi un documental, creo que del Discovery Channel o del History Channel, ya no recuerdo.La vida itinerante y solitaria (por momentos) de Lestat no deja de sorprender, desde las noches compartidas con su madre, hasta la búsqueda incansable de Marius, el maestro de Armand, hasta su encuentro con Akasha y Enkil y su precipitada partida hacia "el nuevo mundo".
Lamentablemente, allí quedaron, en mi habitación en Buenos Aires por que al mudarme a México, tuve que ser algo selectiva con los libros que pude traer.
I joined the Marines in 89 and while watching a movie about a teenage vampire it was mentioned that Dracula is 'good literature'.
The book engendered a question within me that never found any sunlight growing up a protestant in the Deep South.
With no reading, history, or even exposure to any philosophy (Arkansas public school after all) I now asked questions about ethics, the nature of God, what is beauty, morality, and more.
Lestat might not be a being of light (that's another topic) but his darkness is illuminating.This is one of my favorite books ever.
