https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29872.The_New_York_Times_Cook_Book
I've had this cookbook since this edition was published in the early 80's. It has remained a favorite"go-to" cookbook; a timeless staple in my kitchen that has stood the test of time. I learned how to cook and bake using this cookbook.I can't speak to other editions, but this one is definitely a classic.
In these pages Craig Claiborne taught me to cook and to love to cook.
I bought the first edition when it was originally published around 1961 and I have used it ever since.
The recipes are clear, well organized, beautifully thought out.
The photo sequences to teach how to carve a turkey, make a muffin and similar basics.
I have an extensive collection of cookbooks, historic ones, books from many times and cultures but I would sorely miss Craig in my kitchen.
I have my stained, dogeared first 'first edition' and felt lucky to find a duplicate to use for the rest of my life.
Someone gave this to us as a wedding gift over 20 years ago. Could not live without it! Almost every recipe is quite simple, usually only taking 1 column. I am not too ambitious as a cook, so this suits me fine. Also, plenty of veg-friendly recipes, including an entire legume chapter.
Nice
116)Chicken and Sausage with Olive and Anchovy Sauce (p.
633)Dacquoise, "one of the finest and most sought-after desserts in fine restaurants," is meringue layers with buttercream filling.
Interestingly, Claiborne writes that he first tasted it at Windows on the World, the restaurant that was at the World Trade Center.Coulibiac is something I had never heard of before, but now desperately want to taste and also attempt cooking - it looks RIDICULOUSLY complicated!
"Any cook who is skilled enough to prepare a brioche dough, a standard French crepe and a cream sauce is equal to the task."Reading this book also made me realize there are just some basic cooking things I would really like to learn (ie, prepping an artichoke, and making croissants).
Truly horrible photos, particularly the color photos.The book itself is a very useful one. The contents make the book a jewel.
I have the 1961 version! Hilarious.
An interesting read. I like reading recipes even if i don't try them out. This time I did thug. I cooked rice the easy way. It was a really simple recipe but i can't follow a recipe to save my life, especially one on rice. I always have to check it and you're not supposed too. Don't lift the lid! my cat liked this book too. Every time i opened it she would come over and lie down in the middle of it.
I was weaned on Betty Crocker as a kid and never understood the lure of the Joy of Cooking, but this was my first go-to cookbook as an adult. I have tried many things and all have come out delicious. My favorite recipe was for the stuffed flank steak. I've never been disappointed with anything I've tried.
I learned how to cook using this book and still refer to it often. The instructions are clear and in logical order. Also, the authors actually tested all the recipes so they work. Made my first souffle using this book and it came out great.
This was my first cookbook after I left home. It looks horrid, which I guess is a good sign that it has been used and abused to its fullest.I think it even has the branded mark of a stove-top coil on the cover.
Not one of my favorites but it does have merit. It contains many classic recipes but it is a bit pretentious and over blown. I wouldn't really recommend this book to a novice cook. Claiborne assumes that basic cooking skills are present.
I confess that I bought this to read rather than use. It's one of the must haves for a cookbook collector.
A favorite, because if nothing else, the recipes are worth reading.
1961 Edition
My favorite basic cookbook.
This is not as good as the original cookbook--when they modernized it, they lost alot
641.5 Cla
15?
Classic, but shifting culinary trends have not been kind...
This is the cookbook I go to first. It has a good selection of recipes that are fairly simple to prepare. I keep well supplied with the Mango Chutney by making a new batch every year.
This is a classic as far as cookbooks go.. I just saw a new edition (pictured) last year. It's a must-have for every cook.
Another staple cookbook, many classic and timeless recipes.I am not as fond of the updated version as I am of the original. I would try to get it used for the original recipes.
This is one of the books I go to if I am looking for a new recipe or checking for an old recipe. Very Good.
This was the book that I first followed when I started cooking. I've outgrown it, preferring recipes that are more creative, ethnic and low-cal. But it served me well for many years.
All the recipes that me and a friend of mine made turned out very well. These are superb recipes, refined and tried. Highly recommended.
I prefer the layout of the earlier edition of this book. The quick hollandaise is a great simple way of creating this sauce.
