https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36637.Black_Hearts_in_Battersea
The strange algorithms of Amazon recommended a book to me a few years ago: The Wolves of Willoughby Chase by Joan Aiken.
I had never heard of it, but it seemed interesting enough.That is an understatement.The Wolves of Willoughby Chase is an unbelievably fun and charming book set in an alternate England, where James III rules, the Hanoverian Pretender plots to retake the throne, and wolves run amok over the isle of Britain.
Meanwhile, the Hanoverian plot to assassinate the King and his loyal friends, the Duke and Duchess of Battersea, slowly encircles Simon.
Simon, a minor character in Black Hearts in Battersea (but one who clearly took over Aiken's heart), leaves Yorkshire for London where he can study painting.
However, after arriving in London at the home of the Twite family, he is mystified by the disappearance of his mentor, Dr. Field.
No one admits to having seen Dr. Field but there are hints he has been at the Twites, in addition to the letter he sent Simon urging him to come stay with him there.
How Simon seeks his fortune in London while navigating the danger posed by Hanoverian plotters is very satisfying historical fiction.
Lies, deceptions, treasonous plots, mistaken identity, hot air balloons, wolves at the door, stowaways and completely indecipherable dialect. How could you go wrong? I completely loved this even though it took me a bit to get into it, once it gets going though, it's hard to put down.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
It seems a real shame to me that these illustrations have been omitted from later editions.Addendum: Because the reading order of this series is somewhat complicated, I have included this handy guide, which is organized by publication date, and which I recommend to prospective readers of the series, rather than the one offered here on Goodreads:Reading Order for the Series:1) The Wolves of Willoughby Chase2) Black Hearts in Battersea3) Nightbirds on Nantucket4) The Whispering Mountain5) The Cuckoo Tree6) The Stolen Lake7) Dido and Pa8) Is Underground9) Cold Shoulder Road10) Dangerous Games11) Midwinter Nightingale12) The Witch of ClatteringshawsA few notes:--
Why do I still love this book enough to stay up re-reading it for at least the fifth time?The whole series has a unique, distinct style of prose and storytelling.
It's ageless and timeless.
Simon is one of my favorite characters ever.
danger and conspiracy.Each book in the series can be read as a stand-alone.
This is the order, though:0 The Whispering Mountain1 The Wolves of Willoughby Chase2 Black Hearts in Battersea3 Nightbirds on Nantucket4 The Stolen Lake5 Dangerous Games6 The Cuckoo Tree7 Dido and Pa8 Is Underground9 Cold Shoulder Road10 Midwinter Nightingale11 The Witch of Clatteringshaws
4 and 1/2 stars. Young Simon from "Wolves" goes off to London to learn to paint. He plans to live with his friend Dr. Field, but when the boy arrives in the city, the doctor has vanished without a trace. Breathless non-stop adventure from the first page, "Black Hearts" is the sequel to "Wolves of Willoughby Chase." A delightful mixture of Charles Dickens, Jane Austen, and Robert Louis Stevenson.
It finds Simon (from the Wolves of Willoughby Chase) heading to London to study painting at the invitation of Dr Field but on reaching there, not only is there no sign of Dr Field, no one at his lodgings seems to have heard of him.
Simon starts his classes, finds a job, and reconnects with his friend Sophie, while on the sidelines continuing to investigate the disappearance of Dr Field.
What transpires is a deep and fairly well planned plot and a secret that holds the key to the entire mystery.
One pretty much guesses the secret some way in but that didn’t make the book any the less interesting for me.
I don't know why I never read this series when I first discovered Aiken's alternate history London in Midnight Is a Place, but I'm enjoying it now.
It's a quick read, not dark by my standards (though bad things do happen they are tempered with humor), and it was easy to gloss over any historical contexts that I was clueless about (it's summer after all, and I didn't want to make myself think too much).
I thoroughly enjoyed the story.
I do wonder about something at the end which I thought was shoved aside rather quickly in all the other happenings, but I'm hoping that it will be addressed in the next book.
i reiterate what i said upon reading "nightbirds." which boils down to fangirlish, "how did i not read these before now, they are awesome." although i have to say, i am glad i read that one first, because i'm not sure that i would've loved dido if this was my first intro to her. i loved all the good characters and hated all the bad ones and wonder why more children's books today don't involve nefarious plots, wolves and hot air balloons.
From BBC Radio 4 - Afternoon Drama:A dramatisation of Joan Aiken's classic children's adventure. Young Simon comes to 18th century London to study painting - and finds himself caught up in wicked Hanoverian plots to overthrow the king.
Utterly delightful and deliciously dark, as only an Aiken book can be. Even the brat Dido Twite turns out to be a surprisingly capable hand while capturing a ship. A wonderful, adventurous trip through an alternate past.
I'm continuing to enjoy this series.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
So do not grieve too much."I've been wracking my brain to figure out what it is that strikes me about what might otherwise be regarded as a very slight adventure story for youngsters, and I think I've finally twigged: the year that Black Hearts in Battersea was published -- 1964 -- was the year in which we celebrated the fourth century of Shakespeare's birth, and I wonder if, consciously or subconsciously, Aiken drew inspiration for her plot from his plays.
Add to that the Shakespearean commonplace of a shipwreck following a storm (The Tempest, of course, and Twelfth Night) which Aiken also cunningly includes in Black Hearts in Battersea and it's hard to avoid the impression that Joan may well have been cock-a-hoop with delight at how many references she could include.
While my younger self would have found the coincidences and connections between the characters unrealistic, my experience brought to mind the great 19th century novels of Dickens and Hugo, which thrive on these small-world circumstances.However, reading this book wasn't a critical endeavor, and I definitely enjoyed my trip down memory lane.
This book will definitely go on the list of titles to pass on to my children or god-children to enjoy.Unfortunately I was left with one nagging question at the end, which is, "Why did Aiken choose to set the book in an alternate history, where the Jacobites triumphed over the Hanoverians?" It seems generally irrelevant to the story, which could have instead built itself on thwarting a Jacobite plot.
I read this at around age nine and I fell in love with Dido.
I always loved Dickens and this particular story ( and Dido especially) falls into that category of urchins who live by their wits, which seems to be a favorite theme in many of Dickens' books.
She amazed me and one day I am going to reread this book and experience it from my adult perspective.Which will be a shame in a way, because I will probably not feel the magic this time.But such is life.
I love these books.
I mean, it even has the old "orphan kid is really a great person, even though very disadvantaged in upbringing, but oh wow it turns out he's really a duke" trope - twice!
- is a poor child, and though many of the villains are not wealthy, some of the book's kindest and most lovely are too.So, Dido, Dido Twite.....I LOVE HER!
I forgot how much of a brat she is at the beginning of this book, but soon she starts to win your heart with her guttermouth, her loneliness, her spunk, and her quick wit.
Saccharine Dickens.
Which is not such an awful thing.
At times it's very enjoyable, though you'd never mistake it for the real thing.
A good read, but Black Hearts just doesn't stack up to Aiken's The Wolves of Willoughby Chase.
Simon is a fine protagonist, and yet he's just a little too milquetoast compared to his heroic double-cameo in The Wolves of Willoughby Chase.
In Willoughby, Simon was a lost boy who staved off wild wolves and slept with his geese in a tiny cave in the woods.
BBC Afternoon Dramay Joan Aiken, dramatised by Lin CoghlanPart One (of two)A dramatisation of Joan Aiken's classic children's adventure. Young Simon comes to 18th century London to study painting - and finds himself caught up in wicked Hanoverian plots to overthrow the king.Part Two (of two)To save the King from Hanoverian plotters Simon and Sophie must first suffer shipwreck, attacks by wolves and a narrow escape from an exploding castle in hot air balloon.
When I finished Wolves last Wednesday, I determined I would wait a while before starting Black Hearts--read some serious grownup books, you know. That resolve lasted until Monday when I found myself in the Children's Room at the library searching for "Aiken." Thank goodness I have the willpower of an overtired three-year-old. I don't know what I was thinking. Wait, indeed. I feel that Dido in particular would be disappointed in my foolishness. Naturally, I did not make the same mistake twice, and when I turned in Black Hearts, I immediately went to get The Cuckoo Tree.
One of my favourite childhood authors.
This is the best book in the Wolves series. Enter the unlikeliest, and the most lovable, heroine ever -- one whose adventures you'll want to follow right till the last book!
love this author; love this series; love Dido; love the Robin Jacques illustrations. love the mistaken identities and outrageous coincidences, the hot air balloon and tapestries.first read in 1974
DIDO!!!!!!!also schemes and kings and Sophie and all sorts of goodness.
Magnificent alternative reality period romp in the inimitabe style of Joan Aiken. Great stuff but didn't quite enchant me the way The Wolves of Willoughby Chase did. I wanted Simon to stay Simon.
He also manages to reconnect with another good friend, Sophie who is working as a maid in waiting for the Duchess of Battersea and he squeezes in a couple of rounds of chess with the rather eccentric Duke of Battersea when he too falls for Simon's easy charm.Along with all of this, Simon is working hard to try and piece together what has happened to Dr Field and look after the youngest girl in the Twite family, Dido who he feels is sorely neglected.
Simon, who was a relatively minor character in the first book, really comes into his own in Black Hearts In Battersea and I completely fell in love with his winning personality and protective nature, especially when it came to Dido Twite.
However it does not follow the fortunes of the two main characters from that book but rather those of their friend Simon.
In the meantime Simon has enrolled in the Art School and encountered Justin, the heir to the Dukedom of Battersea, and a very poor artist, despite artistic ability running in the family.
This, it turns out, has a representation of a Battersea ancestor to whom both Sophie and Simon bear a strong resemblance.
He would have been brought up as an English gentleman.The book is slightly marred by its illustrations being misplaced so that they often occur just before the incident which they depict but it is all good fun.
Along the way, he meets up with an old childhood friend Sophie, the insufferable Justin, and the inimitable Dido Twite - the younger daughter in the Twite household, cruelly neglected by her parents in favour of her older sister Penelope.This book was a slow starter as compared to The Wolves of Willoughby Chase for me but picked up considerably with the introduction of Battersea Castle and its intriguing cast of characters.
From shipwrecks to air-balloons, from wolves to dynamite, our band of heroes face and overcome every hurdle thrown their way by the sinister gang of villains with ingenious panache!I enjoyed learning more about Simon in this book since he was a favourite of mine in the first.
You don’t need to read the first one to enjoy this one!In this story, Simon goes to London to learn how to paint.
It’s easy to read and has humour within the story, something I think is very important in keeping young readers engaged.I have to admit to being a little frustrated with the slang in the book.
I know it fit with the character, but I felt it made my reading experience a little stilted which is what affected my enjoyment of the story as a whole.
That said, it’s so worth reading, especially if you’ve read the first book in the series.
Must admit it took me a while to get into the story and about halfway through I was ready to give up because I found there were lots of disjoined bits, none of which seemed to connect, but I was well rewarded for sticking to it till the end, when it all came together beautifully.
Lots of Dickensian touches with a great big cast of London characters including an impish pest of a girl you can't help but liking, and of course, this being a children's book from the 20th century, (view spoiler)[you can expect a happy ending.
