https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35534230-significance
Collide will always be awesome to me because it was the very first book, but Caleb and Maggie were definitely the most fun to write.
If I could have jumped in the book and married Caleb right then, I would have :) I love characters with morals and real feelings, characters that have redeeming qualities.If I can have some paranormal stuff going on with some real love and romance thrown into the mix with an original storyline, I'm hooked.
So....though this may not be everyone's cup-o-tea, I love a good story that is about TRUE LOVE under any circumstance and if that's your bag then I'd suggest this to you.Thank you for all your support!
This was a good read in a very shrugworthy kind of way. It was cute and sweetly romantic. But it just didn’t have the umph I was looking for!  WHAT I LOVED:  ♥ Caleb. He was adorable and loyal and had cute shaggy light brown hair and I hope to someday have a German Shepherd just like him.♥ Caleb’s family. They’re kind of a huge group of sweet and funny misfits! And the grandmother was hysterical. I loved ‘em!♥ The first kissing scene. Because, well. When am I *not* a fan of the first kissing sce
I loved ‘em!♥ The first kissing scene.
It was actually a very well-written ending, especially for a first book in a series!
And if you don’t know what imprinting is, fear not: it explains it to you during all of the first 387 pages.
A like sexual tension that makes me grip my Kindle a little bit harder and a heroine who doesn’t know whether she wants to toss a fist at the guy’s face or to have him fist her hair.
All in all, I guess it’s safe to say that I don’t really understand all the hype over this book!
If you honestly like romances where people can't get enough of each other, or if you get pissed off at books when it takes an entire story for a couple to acknowledge their feelings, then I'd say to check this out.
I do think it's possible to have a charming story in which two people are meant for each other and love to be there for one another, but still acknowledge that there is more to their life than just what's in their little bubble.My favorite example of soulmates fiction done right would be the Tairen Soul series, starting with Lord of the Fading Lands because the epic story and world is just as engaging as the beautiful romance.As for book two in the Signficance series, surprisingly enough, I will probably end up reading it anyway.
IF YOU THOUGHT YOU KNEW INSTA-LOVE...You didn't. Not until you've read SIGNIFICANCE. This book is a perfect explanation to why I despise books on 'soulmates'. To me, you should not fall in true love within 48 hours. I don't care if you're 17 or 50, soulmate or not.
This is an addictive series… On to the next one…
A romance-heavy story that is very sketchy on what's actually going on with the paranormal stuff--and unfortunately, the romance just didn't work for me.
The book has the usual self-published issues with typos, clumsy dialogue, the need for a good editor, and the fleshing out of plot and character development.Fundamentally, it also makes me seriously uneasy to have a story line in which teenagers are so strongly "imprinted" on each other.
This type of thing might work if it were balanced out by other elements, but since the romance is the primary subject here, I found it difficult to overlook.
I think it's time for a GoodReads Game®: how many parallels can we find between Significance and Twilight?
Oh no, her love interest is not quite human!
His family is so sweet, and even though they have superpowers they love human girl.8.
If she hangs out with him long enough she will be changed and get to have superpowers too!9.
But even before this magical change, isn't it weird how all these guys want her even though she doesn't think she's anything special?11.
and so on.If you really loved Twilight, you'll probably like Significance.
No werewolf love triangle, though, so there's that.
Or how I'm torn between giving support to inde authors and wanting to strangle them for publishing their books in hurry without checking it out for, if necessary, millionth time and, for God's sake, good editor?Let's begin with the most improtant irrelevant thing - cover.
Wel, somewhere in the middle.I believe this could be book worth reading but it needs lots of hard work and author's willingness to accept constructive criticism.
I don't like to write negative reviews, but sometimes it's just the right thing that authors need to hear.
- AUDIO VERSION (RE-READ) - 6 Finding True Love StarsI read this book a few years ago and I never got around to writing a review.
When Caleb and Maggie meet, sparks fly and it’s like BAM insta-connection.Maggie is Caleb’s Significance.What does it all mean?
I was just sucked into Caleb’s world and all the special things that went with it.I loved the rival clans and all the drama.Let’s just say, everything is intense!
The one thing that I enjoyed most about this read is the love Caleb and Maggie have for each other.
It’s a very sweet read about two young lovers getting to know each other.
An EPIC YOUNG LOVE STORY
In a freak moment of destiny, Maggie saves the life of Caleb - stopping him from crossing the road, and from being hit by a truck.
Confused and incredulous, Maggie discovers that Caleb is an Ace. Otherwise known as Virtuoso, or Charmed, they're not completely human - gaining abilities once they reach a certain age after they imprint.
And Maggie and Caleb are soul mates.
But to imprint with a human is even rarer.Caleb's big family - quirky, motley and talented - welcome Maggie with open arms.
Loved Maggie and Caleb!
At the beginning of her senior year, her mom left her and her dad, which caused Maggie to have to get a job and take car of her dad who had been out of it ever since.
He almost gets hit by a truck and Maggie saves his life.
Of course as soon as she starts dating Caleb, her dad becomes more present in her life, as well as her best friend Becks.
Plus, they have Kyle to deal with, Maggies ex boyfriend Chad, and a rival clan out to get them.
Caleb was so adorable and I loved Maggie.
Maggies dad really grew on me also.
Downloaded for free from Amazon.co.uk.This was a really good paranormal romance, and I really enjoyed it!I really loved Maggie and Caleb, they were both just so darn cute!
I was a bit put off by the slow pace, and this book felt twice as long as it was, but because I was enjoying the story it didn’t bother me too much.
I can't promise though that I won't get off track; books are always pretty personal to me.As many, MANY people have already said, the editing is in need of some serious work.
I'm assuming the sentence SHOULD read "He can name THE capitol of any COUNTRY in the world.".
There was a weak explanation given to the rivalry of good and evil, but it was shallow and unfulfilling.I can understand where some people (women) would enjoy reading about a stereotypically perfect, and all encompassing love, but this book fell flat and left me frustrated.
I was 14 I think and this series was my life😂.I mean, it’s so cheesy and corny but I loved it.
Because i just reread it and somehow liked it even better the second time around.This book gave me so many unrealistic expectations when I was younger.
Ok very clingy, but it’s part of the plot so I can’t really complain.
Because even though I loved it, it’s just too damn much.
It’s too sweet, it’s too perfect.
If you’re craving something sweet to eat, just read this book and I’ll promise it’ll go away.
It’s like candy for the soul 😂🍭
Maggie and Caleb are soul mates struggling with, but enamored by their newfound connection.
However, as the book progressed, I really became caught up in their sweet story and found myself rooting for them to overcome their hardships.
He doesn't truly possess any 'alpha' qualities but he's adorably sexy and intensely protective over Maggie.
I enjoyed the connection between the secondary characters, as well as the addition of the 'evil', opposing ones.
Maggie has been hurt by the thoughtless abandonment of her mother, but remains a strong, level-headed character whom I admired.
Perhaps that's exactly what it was when Maggie saved Caleb's life after pulling him back off the road and nearly missed being hit by a truck, turns out, he's Kyles cousin.
Maggie and Caleb form an instant connection once they imprint on one another.
Imprinting hasn't been happening for a while now and the clan's have been concerned about it, so when Caleb and Maggie imprinted, not only was it exciting, but it is very rare to imprint with a human.
I HAD to keep reading and find out what happened next to Maggie and Caleb.
Maggie is an ordinary girl graduating from high school and wanting nothing more than to be done with school and work all summer at the diner before deciding what she is going to do.
What is worse is when you are stuck in a love triangle and you don’t want anyone to get hurt feelings but you already know that at least two people are going to get hurt.
Maggie has made her decision and she is going through with her plan of loving and trusting someone when she could not do that a year ago.
Although I am a lover of all things paranormal it's nice to have someone think out of the box.
The world Crane created was so unique and intriguing.
Although the one true love concept was still there, which is what we all love in the first place, it was awesome to see how intense Caleb felt for Maggie.
I loved how Maggie didn't fight her destiny but was able to roll with the punches.
All in all this was a great read with a very unique take on paranormal romance.
Well done Ms. Crane
“Because you are my significant, my soul mate. And I'm yours.” Shelly Crane sure does know how to make a girl happy and boy am I a happy girl because I’ve finally read this novel. I had wanted to read it for ages but you know how review books always take priority. Thankfully though, I got it for review and started it straight away and seriously and I mean seriously, Significance is one of them novels that will take your breath away from the moment you start reading it because it’s fast paced, i
Thankfully though, I got it for review and started it straight away and seriously and I mean seriously, Significance is one of them novels that will take your breath away from the moment you start reading it because it’s fast paced, intense and completely touching.
When becoming each other’s significant, they can get wrapped up in each other and move to fast but I loved that the author gave us enough time for them to act like a normal couple and actually try and get to know one another before all the craziness starts.
This was a really sweet, romantic YA paranormal romance. Those are my favorite kinds so I really enjoyed Significance! If you're looking for a sweet love story that will make you sigh and smile, this book's for you. Thanks to Shelly Crane for a great read! Going to download the next book now . . .
2,5 starsBlah.I wish I haven't wasted my time reading this.It's not that the story or the characters were boring,it's just that I couldn't connect with them and sometimes found their actions plain stupid and ridiculous.There isn't much chemistry between two main characters.This is basically Twilight (which I actually like) but with soul mates instead of vampires.I mean,if you're gonna make me read an insta-love at least throw some vampires in it,you know?The supporting characters were really weird,especially Kyle and Rebecca.Example:-the main character has been kidnapped and this is what her best friend tells her after she finds out about this:
It’s a really sweet romance with a minor paranormal twist that makes it unique and intriguing, and I really enjoyed it.Maggie has had a hard year.
He’s human, but with special abilities, and the two of them are soul mates – two people in the world who are perfect for each other in every way - and they have just imprinted on each other.
As Maggie comes to terms with the news, meets Caleb’s family, and comes to understand the significance of what has happened, she learns that now that she and Caleb have imprinted, the two of them will ‘ascend’, receiving supernatural powers that makes them extraordinary.
It’s unique and engaging, and Maggie and Caleb are gorgeous together.
It felt like a carbon copy of Twilight.
She imprints with Caleb.
They just use their abilities to protect their families?
Makes money on his own though his family is loaded.
Shows self-restraint eventhough his body is practically burning with lust for Maggie.
70% of the plot is full of sappy, mushy talk between Caleb and Maggie.
Couple that with lots of makeout scenes.
Makeout scenes are fine.
It just felt like Shelly Crane had nothing better to fill up the story with.
The book is full of grammatical errors.
The scenes where there are no grammatical errors are the makeout scenes.
3.5 imprinted stars Honestly guys ! This book could not have been more Twilight to me.... The plot,the scenes,the Cullen family..... (I mean seriously,Caleb's father was almost the carbon copy of Edward's father, Carlisle while the books leading hero, was a mirror version of Edward himself.)They even had the prom scene, aJacob and Mike in the story. (view spoiler)[YEP! I'm talking about Kyle and Chad respectivly..:p (hide spoiler)]....And I mean for god's sake, there's even a part about (view sp
(I mean seriously,Caleb's father was almost the carbon copy of Edward's father, Carlisle while the books leading hero, was a mirror version of Edward himself.)They even had the prom scene, aJacob and Mike in the story.
I'm talking about Kyle and Chad respectivly..:p  (hide spoiler)]....And I mean for god's sake, there's even a part about (view spoiler)[ how she becomes even more beautiful after her ACE transformation !
(hide spoiler)],come on !
Now here the condradiction,INSPITE of all this..the plot still manages to remain original...Lol, I could not help but love it especially our lead "Caleb " ;) Oh my god !!
UPDATE: So, I was going through books I already read to see if I still thought they deserved the rate given...And this deserves a star minus... I'm still crying over my wasted time, let it Rest in Peace...Insta-love thy name is Significance.Original Review WHAT ON THE FACE OF EARTH DID I JUST READ?  I must say... I'm highly impressed with the amount of people actually liking this book. Everything happens so fast you don't have a chance to blink. And the basic concept is just ridiculous. I didn't
UPDATE: So, I was going through books I already read to see if I still thought they deserved the rate given...And this deserves a star minus... I'm still crying over my wasted time, let it Rest in Peace...Insta-love thy name is Significance.Original Review WHAT ON THE FACE OF EARTH DID I JUST READ? 
  I must say... I'm highly impressed with the amount of people actually liking this book.
  Everything happens so fast you don't have a chance to blink. And the basic concept is just ridiculous. I didn't make it to the end, and frankly, I'm glad about it.
I am only human. I refuse to stay put while two bumbling adolescents proclaim their undying love to each other after just 3 days. No. Just no.
I could gush about Caleb forever, but I’ll leave that to Alyssa, who has posted a really great review of this book.
(view spoiler)[However, I will add my own version of Caleb…and I had to include one of Maggie and Caleb...
The first time I read the description of this book, I didn’t expect to like it.
However, the imprinting part of the story was handled in the perfect way that didn’t make the relationship feel forced.
Caleb has a great family and I can’t wait to read the other books in the series.
This book is worth reading.
I liked it at times but most of the time I was kind of bored.It started out really good but I didn't have time to read it for a couple of days and when I was able to pick it back up again, I'd lost pretty much all interest in it.
I liked them for the most part but I just didn't care that much about them.
Which is perfectly fine for some books but because I couldn't get into the characters, the lack of plot wasn't helping me fall in love with this book.Overall, I just couldn't get into this book.
The book was'nt my favorite but I liked it just a bit.
Caleb seemed a little to perfect and sometimes their dialouge made me want to slam my head against my wooden table.
The reason I gave it 3 stars, because of when the Watson's abducted her then things started to get interesting I'm not a malicious freak I just felt there was a bit more action in the book not just all that I love you stuff.After that I appreciated her relationship with Caleb a bit more.
Just a heads up.Xx - LibraryFairy
Maggie is so dependent and almost submissive to Caleb that it sometimes gets frustrating to see her act all sweet and innocent.
However that all changed when she saved a boy named Caleb, on her way to meet his cousin Kyle, who has asked her on a date which she has finally to go after 2 years of him trying.
However, Kyle's happiness of finally getting the girl he has had a major crush on, is shattered when Caleb and Maggie touch each other, which leads to imprinting one another.
As readers, we see the process of imprinting and Maggie becoming Caleb's significance.
