https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6373717-hold-still
”You might be looking for reasons but there are no reasons.” It was this simple line that made me realise that I not only liked, but respected this book.Out of context, it is an ambiguous, awkwardly phrased sentence that makes my fingers itch to shove in some punctuation. In context, it’s one of the most powerful statements in the entire novel. It’s a deeply insightful expression of understanding, an extension of empathy, distilled into one potent line.Mental illness is not a choice. And had th
The building of the treehouse was a slightly less subtle motif for the themes of the novel, but all the same it added an interesting dimension to the character of Caitlin, and I’m all for contemporary YA protagonists who moonlight as carpenters.However, while this is Caitlin’s story, it’s Ingrid that left the most profound impression on me.
Above all, I admire the choices La Cour made in her depiction of Ingrid: honest and unflinching, while also according her the dignity of not being entirely defined by her suicide.Hold Still is an impressive debut, and the strength of La Cour’s writing complements the weight of the themes.
This is where the book starts, which is a really powerful beginning – it is a true portrayal of raw grief; it is sad and depressing; and it makes you feel as numb as Caitlin does.The hardest, but also the most interesting, parts were when Caitlin read through Ingrid’s journal entries, and we slowly get a feel of Ingrid’s struggle over the years, of the way she was terrified of losing her mind, of her depression and her hesitation to inform her friend about this.
;) I think I had such a good feeling about this book for such a long period of time, that I was bound to be disappointed in some way or the other.
It had some very redeemable qualities.The premise.Caitlin's best friend, Ingrid, committed suicide.
(and yes this might be absurd)(view spoiler)[But I thought for a second.
I thought, OHMYGOD!, he was in love with Ingrid!
I’m thinking about the first day of school—I was sure that she would make things better, that she would treat me as she used to.I say, “I needed you, too.” My face burns.“Yes,” she says.
From the back cover we learn that this is the story of Caitlin, a young girl in high school dealing with the aftermath of her best friend Ingrid's suicide and the discovery of Ingrid's journal.
This was a beautiful read that sensitively dealt with the topic of mental illness and suicide; I loved the language of the book, I loved the illustrations created by Mia Nolting that were used throughout, I was completely moved by Caitlin's and Ingrid's stories.
It tells the story of Caitlin, whose best friend Ingrid commits suicide.
Nevertheless, Caitlin feels left alone with her feelings of guilt and anger, not understanding why her friend never confided in her about her sadness and pain.
Despite the fact that Ingrid is dead, I really felt her presence in this book.
When Ingrid writes in her diary”this is what i want so don’t be sad.
Her parents are all understanding and try to help her no matter how stupid she behaves), Hold Still is a book that lingers.I wanted to add something about the cover: I simply adore it.
As much as I enjoy and simply love those books, Hold Still is a far more real experience because, admit it, as a teen, what are the chances of you taking off in a truck across the country with a ridiculously hot guy, too?
LaCour gives Caitlin many tools; she allows her to find Ingrid’s journal, full of her deepest thoughts; she allows her to make a new friend in school, one who has also experienced loss; she gives her understanding parents who only want to see their daughter emerge from her numb stasis; and she even gives her a concerned classmate, one who wants the best for her.
Ingrid's journal entries and Caitlin's reactions to them felt authentic and raw; Nina LaCour's depiction of mental illness balances honesty with hope and includes an appropriate, unsettling amount of detail.
While clunky prose and some odd adverb usage drags down parts of this book, Caitlin's thoughts and actions carry the story to its completion, and her character gives an intimate, memorable look into someone who has lost her best friend.Other parts of Hold Still felt incomplete to me, almost as if the book could have used one more round of revision.
Hold Still actually attempts to flesh out a harsh reality, a reality that sadly, many teens may one day be forced to face.
What would happen to this girl, if the one friend she had, the one person who bothered to invest in her, took her own life and left her alone?
Now Caitlin is alone, but as luck would have it, there is a new girl in school who tries to befriend Caitlin, who Caitlin spurns, but later becomes friends with.
If you spurn a teen girl, there is no forgiveness to be had for you unless she too is equally desperate for a friend.
August 2010 - I'm not sure there are words to express just how much this book changed me.
I started this book with a much different approach than I came out with, but I say that in the best way possible.
Most reviews go on to tell you about the book, but you can read that for yourself.
These reviews are ways for me to remember just how moved I was by individual novels.
You may read this book after reading this review and think, what the hell was that girl talking about, and that's okay; not every novel hits home to every individual.
Which was a mistake, because this book is beautifully written and achingly gorgeous, and the ultimate message (I hesitate on calling it a ‘message’, because you don’t just come across messages in real life, and Caitlin’s story is too down-to-earth for that) is not about grief, it’s about hope.The writing is deceptively simple, a little like If I Stay, except I could never really believe the characters in that book; impossibly talented musicians and perfect families and all.
The story is a little fragmented, but the small moments here and there, but it’s painfully realistic.
I got this after reading oh-so-many stunning reviews.
And it's one of my fave reads this year.
I am most astounded with just how deeply I sunk into these pages.
Nina LaCour knows teens and she's pitch prefect at capturing them.I personally not only related to Caitlin, but also to Ingrid (who, wow, she's dead from the outset, but her presence is so keenly felt throughout the pages).
It's beautiful and hopeful and brave and captivating and I wish I could go back to my teen self and give her this book.
This is another one where the magic lingers in my mind.
Stunning.
I was lucky enough to read this as an ARC, and I still remember sitting on the train and thinking, "This book is amazing!" It's beautiful and sad and hopeful all at the same time, and to top it all off, this is Nina's first novel! Definitely one to check out when it shows up in stores in October--it is one of the best young adult books I've ever read.
3.5 StarsThis little line pretty much describes the book for me….”part longing, part sorrow, part hope.”Nina LaCour’s Hold Still shows individuals of all ages struggling with death, suicide, grief, and the big, dark, lonely, overwhelming hole that one can leave in our lives when they are gone.
Our story revolves around two friends--one who committed suicide and one left behind trying to understand and deal with the loss.Readers meet best friends Caitlin and Ingrid along with parents, teachers, friends—old and new, and more in this beautiful little book.
We see Caitlin try to cope with her pain, find an outlet to express herself and her loss, and move on and find new loves and friends.
There are so many things that I want so badly to tell you but I just can't.The first time I picked Hold Still up, I didn't finish it.
It couldn't have been much at all, because this book was beautiful from the very first page.I can't find the words to explain just how much I loved Hold Still.
From Ingrid to Caitlin to Ms. Delani to Taylor, each and every character is well-developed.
And they're real - so real it's painful.From the beginning to the very last page, we get to see Caitlin's growth as a character, how she moves on from her best friend's suicide.
I've suffered through the first 50 pages, bored out of my mind.
Every page reads like the diary of someone with a very uneventful life.
I get that the chick is having a hard time dealing with the suicide of her best friend, but she lacks any emotion.
The book is a constant stream of 'I did this.
I flipped through the rest of the book to see if maybe the writing got any better or more interesting, but it's more of the same.
I just can't justify wasting any more time reading this book because it's boring me to tears.
I've heard great things about her other two books, but never really put two and two together and realized that this was by her, too.
she's now on my authors-to-watch list, at a pretty high spot.Hold Still is about Caitlin, a girl reeling in the suicide of her best friend, Ingrid, left to pick up the pieces after a curveball she never saw coming.
one day after school, she finds Ingrid's journal under her bed and begins to reconstruct her best friend while also trying to move on.
*****For my full review, go to Darling & Co.*****Hold Still is the 5th book I am reading for Mental Health Awareness Month and is a captivating book about a girl, Caitlin, who is trying to survive the death of her best friend, Ingrid, who killed herself at the end of sophomore year.
Although the books starts slow, and I was questioning if I would like Caitlin as a character, about a third in, it picks up speed as Caitlin comes to terms with the death of her friend, and learns that life moves on.It really took a bit for the book to get going.
There were cutesy drawings and pages from Ingrid's journal with these bubbly, floral, cute hipster designs on them.
And, although I only got glimpses of Ingrid through her journal or from the memories Caitlin recalls, I felt like I knew her.
Caitlin's multiple stages of grief were subtly tracked throughout the changing seasons, and it's in her mourning that she also finds herself.
Caitlin meets a new friend, builds a tree house, rediscovers her love for photography, deals with her relationship with her parents, skater boy, old mentor/teacher, but most of all - with Ingrid's absence.
I love how the gay character is just a character, and not at all an "issue" in this book.
I see this book's biggest strength as showing just how profoundly different what you see on the outside of a person and what's going on on the inside can be.
People show what they want or need to, and that's all we get to see, and sometimes what's on the inside is just too painful to move to the outside.
There's an excellent trailer on YouTube and the author's website, if you want a little taste of this: book trailer
Nina LaCour's "Hold Still" is one of my favorite YA realistic fiction reads of the past year because of how powerful it draws its respective relationships and describes the "starting over" process for a young woman dealing with the suicide of her best friend.Caitlin and Ingrid were inseparable friends - going to their favorite secret hangouts, maintaining interests and fostered talents for photography, among other things.
There is a lot of common themes of loss, grief and love but I felt that the way LaCour set the book apart from the rest was in the execution.If forced to choose the single thing I loved the most about the novel, I would have to ponder the premise.
I could even feel the gradual change of her voice as she forges new connections and eventually learns to move on, learn, love, and hope.
It’s a novel with themes that can change the way you think, love, and feel; and I can’t ask for anything else.Recommended for: Lovers of YA Contemporary fiction!
On the other hand it can be unsettling and even devastating to realize that someone you thought you knew completely has kept an entire side of themselves a secret.
Ingrid leaves behind an illustrated journal for Caitlin and through its entries both Caitlin and the reader get a vivid introduction to both the Ingrid Caitlin knew and the Ingrid that kept herself hidden.
By the end of the journal Caitlin has several new pieces to the puzzle of Ingrid and she must decide how to put them together and what to do with what she learns.I love when YA protagonists have serious hobbies and specific interests.
I feel like I've read a lot of suicide books now.
Books where the main character is dealing with the aftermath of a loved one's act of committing suicide.
And, ya know, the thing I think that draws me to these books is that it's such a real and raw affect that the author creates.
Or don't know how to and I thought Nina LaCour captured that soo well in this book.
That contradiction of wanting to do something but saying or doing another thing.Caitlin is a good character.
I didn't completely relate to her or totally fall in love with her character but I did like her.
There's so much to love about this beautiful book, and I don't know if I'm up to reviewing it.
I loved that her being a lesbian isn't an issue, I loved her sweet relationship with her girlfriend (who I also adored), and I loved her loving friendship with Caitlin.5.
The relationship that springs from that is very cute, and I especially liked that it was based on more than looks.
I especially loved him helping Caitlin through the last scene of Romeo and Juliet.6.
Caitlin's parents.
And Ingrid's parents.
Sometimes, it can seem like there are too many absentee parents in YA, and it's nice to see parents that are present, and loving, if fallible.7.
I will never be able to describe how i feel about this book right now.
And i should mention that i read this book because i was in the mood for it and it made me feel it, grief and sadness surrounded me, there's this sweet girl that i know died a week ago and everyone was so depressed.
I feel like throwing this book in every single one of these people's faces.
No one really dies.
This book is a life changing book, it deals with grief and hope in a flawless way.
Thank you Nina Lacour.
Thank you so much.
I liked this better than We Are Okay.
Both books are about grief but I felt that this book was able to show it more.
You can really feel Caitlin's pain because her bestfriend died by suicide.
This was a beautiful and heartbreaking read.
"There are going to be a lot of people in your life who you won't like and you're going to have to learn to deal with them.""It isn't the happy ending that Ingrid and I had dreamed up, but it's all a part of what I'm working through.
The way life changes.
The way people and things disappear.
The back cover has praise from the authors of "Once was lost" and "If I stay", if you liked these, you will love this book.
(It also has the author of "Living Dead Girl", but I haven't read that one yet, so I can't comment.)I want to see the photographs Ingrid took...
I want to see the photo's that Catlin took...
I want to read ALL of Ingrid's diaries....
I want to see Catlin's treehouse....
Can you tell this book captivated me?!?!?!Did the inside of her treehouse look like this???
We are following Catlin, after the loss of her best friend, Ingrid.
One of those books that I can't review, that I can't dissect and analyze or simply shout "I love it!"I can't.
This book.
This book.
They're not this.This is not a story glossed up and prettied and toned down, a story written to appeal to the masses, to make some dramatic point, to have some transcendental meaning.
It's a girl and new friends, new love, real family.
It's a girl dealing with grief and anger and hope and life.This book is short because it doesn't have to be any longer.
i dont know how to explain how i feel right now.
”You might be looking for reasons but there are no reasons. The sun stopped shining for me is all.” My best friend Lauren is the sister I’ve always wanted but never had. We’ve been friends for 5 years and have been inseparable ever since the day we first met in science class our senior year. We’ve been through boy drama, classroom mischief, and (most recently), the atomic breakup of the century. I’d be totally lost without her, and I’m sure a lot of other best friends feel that way about each o
Wallowing in a never ending pit of grief and loss, Caitlin is angry at Ingrid for leaving her, others for not helping her, and the world for taking her best friend.
Throughout the long, slow months of the school year, Caitlin learns how to deal with the knowledge of her friend being gone, as well as trying to find her will to move forward without Ingrid beside her, with the help of her newfound friend Dylan and potential love interest Taylor.
Hold Still is an exception, and it’s accurate portrayal of grief, loss, and healing will stick with readers long after the final page is turned.
