https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32442.Cold_Fire
Another example of this is The Book of Counted Sorrows from which the following quote appears twice in Cold Fire to introduce readers to both part one and two of the story: "In the real world as in dreams,nothing is quite what it seems."A windmill is a central focal point of this story and the imagery is wonderful :"Night pressed at the narrow windows, which were almost like castle embrasures in the limestone walls.
If you enjoyed or are interested in reading Cold Fire, I would also recommend the following Dean Koontz novels: Lightning, The Bad Place, By The Light of The Moon, and Brother Odd.
I am pleased to have read one of his enormous works...over 500 pages....but as always with these multi-tomed writers, having seen so many on the bookshop shelves I was always hoping I would enjoy him more and thus open out a huge future of treating myself to one of his stories once a year or so.
As it is, having read this one, I am not sure if I will indulge again and so he joins Alexander McCall Smith and Patrick O'Brian on my 'Oh well I tried ' shelf.He is certainly a page turner and the pace of the novel is quite exciting.
This is the story of a man who somehow knows the future--he doesn't control when he'll know or what he'll know: but each time he follows the "directions" he saves someone's life.
Then he meets a reporter for a small time newspaper who likes his eyes (yes, you read that right) enough to follow up on him.
And then...the sci-fi bizzarro part kicks in--it's all very intriguing and I certainly didn't want to put the book down because I had to know how it ended.
Has anyone read any other Dean Koontz novels that you can recommend?
HOLY CRAP THIS BOOK WAS AWESOME.I have read a lot of Koontz.
PLEASE do not read the spoiler unless you have also read Thr3e by Ted Dekker, because I am going to spoil it, too.
Though I have not read as many of them, overall I have enjoyed a larger percentage of Ted Dekker's books than I have of Dean Koontz's.
Using my powers of deductive reasoning, I am going to assume that Ted has also read Cold Fire.
Jim in Cold Fire and Kevin in Thr3e have crafted their own versions of reality without knowing it.
This was my first Koontz and I have always credited it with getting me hooked on the horror/mystery genre. The characters were realistic and likable. The romance between them despite their frightening situation in the windmill was superb. Never forgot it.
lako se čita ali lako ce se i zaboraviti. Bez veze.... Dvojka zbog prve polovice knjige.
Не отричам литературния му талант, точно защото от време на време попадам на нещо като това, или „Пазителите“, или „Пророчеството“, всяка от които докосна нещо в мен.Холи Торн е журналистка, която случайно се среща със симпатичния непознат – Джим Айрънхард, когато той спасява дете от пиян шофьор.
Когато обаче се заравят в миналото на Джим ги чака неприятна изненада.Книгата е изпъстрена с много сюжетни обрати, които правят простичката човешка история едно много напрегнато приключение.
Паранормалният елемент мени няколко пъти доста успешно проявлението си, докато стигнем до финалната изненада.Другото добро попадение беше, освен цитатите от несъществуващата „Книга на преброените тъги“, които присъстват в доста от произведенията на автора, имаше и цяла несъществуваща детска книжка „Черната мелница“ с оригинален сюжет, около която се завъртя историята.
I expected something frighteningly exciting, as I always do from Koontz, and felt like the story was building up to this, too, with both its religious and alien allusions.And then the story does a complete turn for the worse: the big reveal practically renders the entire build-up completely useless, providing me with annoyance and an anti-climactic feeling, and the psycho-analytic drivel it puts forth as a back-up of all that has occurred just felt ridiculously out of place, and terribly forced.
The big reveal and the ending didn’t feel like a logical conclusion to the first part of the book at all; though I’m all for good plot twists and new perspective on things, it’s the author’s job to make this work, to make it believable.
I've always enjoyed Dean Koontz writing and this book reminded me of all the things I loved about him since the first book of his I read.
All through out the book I was really rooting for the main character.
Although she seems useless in the beginning, she turns out to be an important person for Mr. Ironheart.Their names are also pretty obvious.
The journey in this story is great with a lot of action sequences that leave the reader just wanting more and unable to put the book down.
I liked this book and would recommend it to be read.
By about two-thirds of the way through, things fell apart for me.As the book opens, the reader is introduced to Jim Ironheart, a man who is experiencing a ‘premonition’ of sorts.
From there Holly is able to piece together a series of similar events and decides that she needs to investigate further.Jim’s history and personality are revealed through Holly’s investigation and the reader receives more information on his supernatural abilities.
The reveal was a letdown after the build-up of the first half of the book and doesn’t seem to fit with the rest of the story.I'm giving this 3 stars for the first two-thirds of the book.
Jim doesn’t make it easy for Holly, as she uncovers the secrets of his life – facts about the wind mill on his grandfather’s farm in Svenborg, the murder of his parents, Jamie and Cara, at the Dixie Duck restaurant, Willott’s story, and the mysterious death of his grandmother, Lena - that for years had not only tormented Jim for most of his life, but prevented him from being able to establish lasting relationships.
I’m sure you’ll find Jim to be an interesting and compelling character, and Holly to be a rather endearing one.
I love how his stories often start out as thick, rich, larger-than-life mysteries, (what follows is a semi-spoiler.) (view spoiler)[and then boil down to a very simple (at least as far as SFF goes) premise.
. ." (hide spoiler)]It was clear to me that this was one of his earlier works.
There are smatterings of purple prose throughout the book, but it's not too bothersome, and after all, this is horror, so it's to be expected.
The ending (view spoiler)[wraps up a touch too conveniently, and there's a bit of superfluous inner-monologuing which summarizes the entire back-story for the reader's benefit, but which isn't really necessary.
Holy crap this is a great book!
I finished this book in exactly three days.
At first you think he's getting these messages from God, then you think it might be aliens -- and I was a little disappointed at the alien thing, because I don't like Sci-Fi stuff, but it's not so don't worry about it (spoiler, sorry), then you start thinking it's something else giving him the messages.
It's got a little bit of romance in it.
And let me tell you girls, sometimes we think guys can't write good romance stuff, but Koontz pulls it off.
This is another one of those books that I think started out well.
I liked the way it was unfolding, I liked the main character (though he was quite shallowly drawn) and I was really quite annoyed with Holly.
To be annoyed with a character there has to be something there.
In this case she was a little more solid than Jim, even if annoying.Unfortunately soon I was thinking "oh, are we going here?" And, we did.
Koontz is a good writer and I enjoy his work.
It's just that he has done some excellent work, and this one started out so well.
Again Dean Koontz comes in more as a thriller than horror which seems the norm. I don't know that this would normally have gotten 5 stars, but given some of the recent Koontz which have definitely lacked compared to the earlier work I went 5. This is so far my favorite Koontz.
He is a master at characterization, at plot and suspense. I am catching up with the novels of his I haven't read and not one of them disappoints. this is an exceptional tale that will keep you guessing and reading long into the night.
All the hero stuff.Holly Thorne, the reporter who goes after Jim, is introduced as an unlikable, self-loving bitch.
What's wrong with being proud of hours of hard work that paid off ?Despite knowing Ironheart for a short while Holly stalks him, and falls in love with him, has sex with him right after he told her about the death of all his nears and dears (LOL), all in about two weeks.Koontz can't write romance; it's on Harlequin level, and I think that even utterly bored housewifes would find it cheesy and unrealistic as hell.Also, Holly turns out to be an excellent psychologists and starts to psychoanalyze poor Jim. Her explanation is that she once interviewed a psychologist.
I would've been completely satisfied had the book ended on a note that illustrated Jim accepting his past and abilities, and choosing to continue helping people while working through his trauma and processing the events at the nursing home.
I'm aware that this is fiction and I both adore and respect Koontz, but I feel that this was not an accurate portrayal of trauma recovery.Aside from those notes, I really enjoyed Cold Fire.
When he declines to be interviewed for her newspaper, she's impressed by his self effacement.Soon after, Holly sees a news-wire story about the nick-of-time rescue of a little boy in Boston.
There is a photograph of the rescuer-Jim Ironheart.Burned out and cynical and looking for a life beyond journalism, Holly finds her newshound instinct rekindled.
Her research shows that Jim Ironheart has quietly performed twelve last minute rescues in twelve far-flung places over the past three months.Realizing she is onto the biggest story of her life, Holly tracks Jim to California.
Holly Thorne’s life and job as a reporter was at a stalemate until she meets a mysterious Good Samaritan named Jim Ironheart.
The boy is not Jim’s only heroic act; stories all over the wire tell of a blue-eyed man who saves people just in time and then disappears into the shadows.
This book is about the power of literature to influence the mind of a boy to do extraordinary things with his gifts a force so influential that it last until his adult life, and the power of love to tame it all.
I would recommend this to anyone who likes Sci-Fi, mystery, suspense, love, romance, and books that change your life forever.
Then he realizes he needs to be to an airport, then looking at the flight board the city of Portland jumps out, once in Portland he drives around for a while then finally thinks of a street name and number, standing at that location he looks around and knows 'its' going to happen soon, he sees a kid then starts running to save the kid from a out of control drunk driver.So thats his calling in life, to save people without knowing how, when, or where at anytime, he just follows his instinct and they lead him to intervene deaths plan at the last moment.
After Jim Ironheart rescues a young student from a speeding truck he is interviewed by a reporter, Holly Thorne, who is there working on another story.
She learns that Jim receives word that a person's life needs to be saved by an unknown source.
When she tracks him down she starts digging deeper into the reasons he gets these messages to rescue people.The author takes you on a tale that will keep you in suspense throughout the book.
Near the end of the book Holly figures out who is giving Jim these messages and sets out to prove it even as it puts her own life at risk.
We read this for our bookclub.
I did not think this was an alien type of book, and felt it was really out of place.
How did she ever come up with that?
Yes it all made sense, but I couldn't see how she could have come up with it on her own.
I don't enjoy reading about fornication.
And the bomb was said twice.I assumed this would be a realistic fiction novel, but it ended up being fantasy with his psychic and moving objects stuff.
The first half of the book was pretty good; I didn't know the premise so I found it very interesting and intriguing pretty much until they start thinking about what's controlling Jim. Then I liked it less.
The idea that an alien force could be controlling him wouldn't be the first that comes in my mind.
Also the idea that Jim had all that power and could pretty much do everything was a little abstruse and unconvincing.
Something was explained at the end, but I found it a little disappointing anyway, since the premise was so good.
This book had me staying up til the wee hours of the morning to finish it.....it was GREAT!!!.....Ji
as usual I like koontz.I put this story down in order to read a few new others to my collection.
Once I picked the book back up, immediately I was caught and drawn right back into the story of a man who saves people by intuition and woman reporter who is trying to find the tale.
At first I didn't think this story would keep my attention, but because it is a Koontz I thought to try it - not a dissapointment!It became a little mind binding by the end.
One moment it is miracles, then it's extraterestrial, then it's super natural...
I got almost halfway finished, but I couldn't bear it. Really terrible book. I only read it because that is all I had on the way back from Paris.
Holly Thorne, een journaliste. Jim Ironheart, een man die steeds op het laatste moment opduikt om iemand van een gewisse dood te redden. De Vijand. De Vriend. Een windmolen. Een ruimteschip in een vijver. En de geheimen en kronkels van de menselijke geest. Dit zijn de ingrediënten van deze spannende triller. Het is het eerste boek dat ik van Koontz gelezen heb, en het smaakt naar meer!
My first novel from this author and I loved it. A story filled with mystic which consumes you already from the beginning and you cannot stop until all answers are answered. Read it!
On of his better novels mix of horror, love, bond and passion for reading and more. Highly suggest any Dean K fan should read.
