https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818748.Poem_of_the_Deep_Song
And about Lorca’s works—his poetry and his theatre—I am enthusiastic.This is not my first reading of “Poema del cante jondo”.
My first exposure to it was in the late 1960’s in Madrid where I audited a course on García Lorca’s poetry and theatre taught by Dmaso Alonso.
It was from Professor Alonso, himself a poet, that I gained a deeper understanding of Lorca and of Lorca’s poetry.In its most fundamental perspective, Lorca’s poetry deals with the universal themes of love, death and alienation.
Those themes are what call me back into Lorca’s poetry every so often.
The fieldof olive treesopens and closeslike a fan.Above the olive grovethere is a sunken skyand a dark showerof cold stars.Bulrush and twilight trembleat the edge of the river.The grey air ripples.The olive treesare chargedwith cries.A flockof captive birds,shaking their very longtail feathers in the gloom.*Everything in the world is brokenNothing but silence remains. *A dark and clear sky,a toasted earth,and riverbeds where waterruns ever so slowly.*The guitarmakes dreams weep.
Sigo sin saber qué decir ante un libro de poesía, pero por intentarlo... Me ha cautivado la musicalidad y, aunque me esperaba más metáforas al respecto, he sentido una parte de esa Andalucía mitológica, la telúrica y pagana, la del viento, la sangre y el perfume.
Çok güzel...Lorca'dan bir bilmece!
Cevabı ve daha da fazlası kitapta...Altı kız dans ediyoryuvarlak yol kavşağında.Üçü ettenüçü gümüş.Dünkü düşler onları arıyor,ama altın bir Polifemo (*),kucağında tutuyor onları.(*) Deniz Tanrısı Poseidon'un oğlu imiş.____________ sayfa 91(...)YARBAY: Neredeydin?ÇİNGENE: Irmakların köprüsünde.YARBAY: Peki hangi ırmakların?ÇİNGENE: Bütün ırmakların.YARBAY: Ne yapıyordun orada?ÇİNGENE: Tarçından bir kule.YARBAY: Çavuş!ÇAVUŞ: Emrinizdeyim Sivil Muhafaza Yarbayım!ÇİNGENE: Uçmak için kanatlar icat ettim ve uçuyorum.
Dudaklarımda kükürt ve gül.
YARBAY: Ya!ÇİNGENE: Aslında uçmak için kanada da ihtiyacım yok.
Kanımda bulutlar ve yüzükler.YARBAY: Ya!ÇİNGENE: Ocak ayında portakal çiçeğim var.YARBAY (Sinirle kasılır): Ya!ÇİNGENE: Kar altında da portakallarım.YARBAY: Ya!
(Düşüp ölür.)(Guardia sivil yarbayının sütlü kahveden ve tütünden olma ruhu pencereden çıkıp gider.)ÇAVUŞ: İmdat!(Kışlanın avlusunda dört muhafız çingeneyi döver.)
What a great place to start one's journey through the poetic world of García Lorca! In this collection, the poet takes us to the heart of his homeland, which turns out to be a land of art and mystery in his words and visions. There's a certain melancholia surrounding those visions. García Lorca tells us there's sadness in the history of his land and his people; he embraces that sadness with pride.A totally recommended starting point for the ones interested in getting into García Lorca.
Lámparas de cristal y espejos verdes. Sobre el tablado oscuro, la Parrala sostiene una conversación con la muerte. La llama, no viene, y la vuelve a llamar. Las gentes aspiran los sollozos. Y en los espejos verdes, largas colas de seda se mueven.Y no digo mas <3
A masterpiece that everyone on earth should read. Note: the English version is very good, so even if you do not read Spanish, you can still enjoy the poems in this book. I also appreciated that the translation was done in facing pages, so that you could switch between language if you wish.
So deep. Andalusian essence of Lorca in all his nature. Easy to read.
A certain day of the week bought this for me; a lovely gesture.
Powerful poems that you almost feel like you could sink your teeth into. Simple enough for a beginning Spanish Language learner to appreciate, with a whole lot of depth, nevertheless.
Bu kitapta özellikle "Issızlık" ve "Sevilla" adlı şiirleri dikkatimi çekti. Güzel mısralara ev sahipliği yapıyor."Dinle, cocugum ıssızlıgı.Dalgalanan ıssızlıgı,vadilerin kaydıgı ıssızlıgı,yankıların oldugu ıssızlıgı,alınlan topraga egilten ıssızlıgı.""Usta okcularla,dolu bir kuledir Sevilya.Sevilya yaralamak icin.Kurtuba olmek icin."
Bu kitapta özellikle "Issızlık" ve "Sevilla" adlı şiirleri dikkatimi çekti. Güzel mısralara ev sahipliği yapıyor."Dinle, çocuğum ıssızlığı.Dalgalanan ıssızlığı,vadilerin kaydığı ıssızlığı,yankıların olduğu ıssızlığı,alınlan toprağa eğilten ıssızlığı.""Usta okçularla,dolu bir kuledir Sevilya.Sevilya yaralamak için.Kurtuba ölmek için."
Interesantes poemas relacionados con los tiempos de guerra en España en los 1900s.
i've read almost all of lorca's writing at some point, but very little of the folks he references which makes me wonder, am i a lazy reader?
am i relying too much on lorca's perspective?
nonetheless, what a perspective it is!
filled with olive trees and daggers, these terse and compact poems distill a lot into a (usually) pointed half-page or less.
i especially liked the play excerpt tidbits and adjoining poems at the end of the book and it makes me eager to re-read his other plays which i don't remember much of anymore.
This version has the original Spanish pooems alongside their English translations. I had difficulties understanding some of the poems, maybe it would have helped to have lived in Spain in the 1920s. Many of the poems seemed to deal with death, loneliness and the sublime. Some of the poems were very sad, others were somewhat diquieting. Although the poems were written in a brief and simple style, It took me a while to get through them. This was a very moving collection of poems and I suspect I'll have to read it again to get it's full impact.
This collection of poems dealt with traditional lyric forms with twists added by Lorca. The reader is treated to beautiful images and descriptions of the life and scenery of Andalusia. I highly recommend this book and in particular this edition as it has the poems in Spanish and English side by side. I found myself reading the Spanish aloud to get a sense of the rhythms and tones that Lorca intended, though the English translation tried to retain that as closely as possible.
Otro cancionero hondo brillante del maestro García Lorca. En virtud de dicha melodía, magnificar: Seis caprichos - Adivinanza de la guitarra (capricho número uno): 'En la redonda / encrucijada / seis doncellas / bailan. / Tres de carne / y tres de plata. / Los sueños de ayer las buscan / pero las tiene abrazadas, / un Polifemo de oro. / ¡La guitarra!'
Lyrical, passionate, dark, beautiful, lush. Garcia Lorca weaves some incredible poetry here (and he was only 23 when he completed Poema del Cante Jondo!). It's dreary and half-hidden, sometimes deeply melancholy. Not a light read by any means. But the language is gorgeous and I found it fascinating.
قرأت النسخة المترجمةيقول لوركا :أمرأة حزينة تجردت لتستحموحول جسمها تناثر المحارونسمة الشاطئ تجعلها تبتسميا حسنها عارية كأنها عروسة بحر تطلع فى جدول تألقت كـ شعاع فجررعى جمالها الملائكةخدودها كوردة السماء تفيض فوقها جداول الحليبدافئة وحلو وبلا انتهاء
La elipse de un gritova de montea monte.Desde los olivos,será un arco iris negrosobre la noche azul.¡Ay!Como un arco de viola,el grito ha hecho vibrarlargas cuerdas del viento.¡Ay!(Las gentes de las cuevasasoman sus velones.)¡Ay!
الديوان ليس قصيدة واحدة فقط كما هو مسمّى، بل مجموعة من القصائد الرائعة..سيمفونيات قصيرة رائعة للغاية.أنْصِتْ يا بنيَّ إلى الصمت،إنه صمت متموِّج ،صمت تنزلق دونهالوديان والأصداءويحمل الجِباه على الإطراقإلى الأرض.
Muy buen libro de García Lorca
stunning.
Original obra de García Lorca, que enlaza tradición con la modernidad (en la forma de escribir). A través de los poemas se ve el sentimiento y la sensibilidad del poeta. Me ha gustado bastante.
'Sigue esa veredita.En las manostengo los agujerosde los clavos.¿No ves cómo me estoydesangrando?'
Eh...
Not only is Lorca's poetry very musical (I'm told), but these are meant to be lyrics. I don't think it translates.
نفس الأسلوب المُكثف و الذوبان فى الطبيعة كما فعل فى ديوانِه الأول . بالتكرار فقدت حلاوتُه بكارتها ..
"Los cien enamorados duermen para siempre..."Ah, so sad and beautiful.
Mejor que romancero gitano, en mi opinión.
