https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1398850.The_Rilloby_Fair_Mystery
Adorei esta leitura, gosto bastante dos livros da Enid Blyton e este não foi exceção.
i really liked it, obviously because i love mystery
This was my most favorite book as a child. and read it oer and over again.
It's a fine adventure, but what made it special for me is that Enid Blyton is at her humorous best.
Great-uncle Robert reminded me of the kind of visitor William Brown's family receives in the Richmal Crompton's Just William series, and Blyton uses him to the same effect.That's not the only source of humor, though.
Everyone seems to be in good humor, and it's a delight to read.The mystery is fine, but was not particularly original.
The adventure with the people from the fair reminded me of Famous Five books like Five Go Off in a Caravan and Five Have a Wonderful Time, and an important plot point would be used again in the last Famous Five book (Five Are Together Again).
This book got me to read it till the end with a willing heart.
Compared to the first book, I find myself laughed to their sense of humour which is for me very laughable.
The interesting story is Snubby isn't as annoying as he is in the first book in Barney series.
He got a bit sense for this book and he actually helped a lot in this investigation of the mystery of the theft in Rilloby.
I have one last book of this author for this series and I'll make sure to read it till the end, The Ring O'Bells Mystery.
I really like Blyton's style of writing and the breeziness of her books. Her books allow you to glide through the story. The characters are perfectly charming as well as intriguing. For young adults parts of the plot are quite predictable yet, I think that they shall enjoy the story. Blyton's use of simple and comprehendible English gives a unique air to her books. The characters are quite indigenous and have been portrayed beautifully. It is a must-read for all children and young adults who love an airy and adventurous story.
3rd installment of Barney Mystery Series. A must read for all Enid Blyton readers
Domestic violence, giving cigarettes as prizes to children, foul language. Books for children? 😁
Man sāk šitie apnikt - vienmēr kaut kas tāds gaužām vienkāršs, ko bērni savelk kopā, bet pieaugušie nē, bet nu mans puika noklausījās līdz galam :D
2.5
I found it incredibly hard to believe.
Love this old-fashioned mystery.
Oh yes, Project Nostalgia makes an Enid Blyton stopover. A long one. Many ratings to come, of books you've never heard of and don't want to read. Nostalgic? Yes. Cheesy? Terribly. Good? Oh no.This is one of the better Enid Blytons, I think, because it fully embraces the ridiculousness of her characters. Snubby and Loony! Great Uncle! The circus! Old Ma! Young 'Un (can't have a Blyton book without some preachiness)! And don't forget the chimps.
Haha, oh Enid, you're getting too easy! It was so early on that I guessed the thief this time it wasn't funny. Loved the food descriptions again. Loved the mystery, and loved my beautiful copy, older and with it's dust jacket. Great series too, another five star book
I didn't actually read this book, my son did...but he loved the entire series.
IM 15 AND I LOVED THIS BOOK. I THINK I READ IT LIKE OVER 50 TIMES EVERY SINCE I GOT THIS BOOK WHEN I WAS 6
An old childhood favourite.
amazing ! loved it ! recommend it to anyone:)
Members of Riverina Regional Library reserve your copy now
