https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6578830-sidney-sheldon-s-mistress-of-the-game
When I was in high school, perhaps freshman year, I read Sidney Sheldon's Master of the Game  and I loved it!
Every time she receives gifts (birthdays mother's day, Christmas) she says without fail, "I made out like a bandit!" Whenever someone has faced a rough or horrible situation, it's always, "Bless his heart." [true story: once when discussing Elvis, she said, "Died on the shitter, bless his heart."]I'm mortified that my sweet Grandma read this!My GRANDMOTHER read this graphic scene of a woman getting herself off!?!?!
(Sugar jets!)My GRANDMOTHER read about Lexi Templeton's wild college days, experimenting with threesomes, bisexuality and sex toys??????
But I had to read it regardless: curiosity and love for the original meant I needed to know what this pseudo sequel is all about.But I won't finish Mistress of the Game.
First of all, it's insulting to readers who know the original Master of the Game, who I'm assuming are the only ones interested in this book anyway.
But COME ON - if you don't know why the family business is called Kruger-Brent, why are you reading this book?But the summarizing wouldn't really bother me in and of itself.
Now, I personally enjoy fanfiction, though I'm very much aware that a great deal of it is subpar in comparison to the original work.I did not expect the pile of utter and complete rubbish that this book was.
And calling it rubbish is the most polite thing I can truly say about this.First of all, what the hell is WRONG with you, Ms Bagshawe, that you've got incest every ten pages?
If you've never read Sheldon, go get Master of the Game and enjoy the story for what it is, not what this IDIOT woman turned it into.God, burn her at the stake.
I bought this book "SIDNEY SHELDON'S Mistress Of The Game" fully believing that I'd get just what was advertised: a book written by the late SS.
Now I know that sequels to bestsellers by passed-away-authors aren't unusual but nowhere have I ever encountered a sequel advertised in such a way as to deliberately make readers believe they'd get something delivered by the pen of the original author.I don't have words for how disappointed I am.
Not only isn't it a Sheldon book, Miss Tilly Bagshawe utterly ruined the characters that so captivated us in Sheldon's masterpiece Master Of The Game.
And she crtainly can't hold a candle to Sheldon!
I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.
This story is about elitism, women, money, power and classism. If that floats your boat this is for you. This anchored sailor is unimpressed. 2 of 10 stars
However, because it is a sequel to one of the best books written by Sheldon and toys with fantastic characters that Sheldon created, I couldn't help but compare Bagshawe's with Sheldon's work and be disappointed with Bagshawe.
Each member of the Blackwell family was strong and so enigmatic that their motivations and actions were so tangible that I got utterly caught up with their next tactical maneuvoure.Not so Bagshawe's attempt at a sequel.I really did try to like the novel if nothing for the sake of my good memories of Master of the Game but I couldn't.
Wish I could give it a lower rating or post it on horrendousreads.com... Seriously appalling storyline ... actually am being nice when i say that the storyline is appalling because it assumes that there is a storyline... Just by following the Sheldonesque pattern of story telling, you don't recreate a Sheldon Story... Obsessed with sex and sex and only sex... of all types.... with the author lingering especially on child sex ... TRASH in letters 100 ft tall and all capital...
Sidney Sheldon's stunning #1 New York Times hit Master of the Game has captivated a huge number of perusers the world over.
Presently, finally, the amazing adventure of the eager and effective MacGregor/Blackwell family proceeds in Sidney Sheldon's Mistress of the Game.
Creator Tilly Bagshawe has grabbed the ace's mallet and conveyed a wonderful story of assurance, voracity, and exceptionally dull privileged insights in the unmistakable Sheldon vein that will entrance newcomers and affirmed Sidney Sheldon fans alike.“I thought I wanted the truth, but I don't.
The past is the past and it can't be changed.
Money must have been the motivation to hype a 'sequel' by another author to such a masterpiece ('Master Of The Game'); as if Sheldon's characters & stylizing would continue to weave the story of the conglomerate of Kruger-Brent and the Blackwell family & it's heirs.
I have challenged myself to complete the book, to honor the characters of Mr. Sheldon (what's left of them!) but more so, to be able to have a complete picture when I finish the scathing review of Bagshawes massacre of the 'sequel' and I use this term loosely, of a truly fantastic novel.TBCUpdate; Upon completion, it didn't get any better.
Having read and loved almost all of Sheldon's works in my teenage years, I was thrilled when a friend lent me this sequel.
I've got to search for all these books again!Weird, freaky 8-year-olds; one calmly goes thro' a kidnapping ordeal without any fear.
REALLY?!, the other is already planning how to kill his father in a way that it'll appear like an accident.
Mothers poisoning their children against their fathers; offering them guns as birthday gifts (???), advising them to sleep with their cousins...
REALLY WOMAN?!And when he (Gabe) goes to work on a construction site in Capetown, and all the blacks spoke Swahili.
Capetown.
Swahili.
Thanks to the horrible writer who took over the V.C. Andrews "name" after her death, I'm not a big fan of the whole "Hey, let's hire somebody new to continue pumping out books under the author's name!" But Tilly Bagshawe was apparently the perfect person to continue Sidney Sheldon's legacy.
This book, a sequel to Master of the Game -- perhaps my all-time favorite Sheldon novel -- was true to the original in every way that matters.
These days, it's tough to find a truly good "trashy" novel.
But Bagshawe's was so good that the day I finished, I rushed out to buy After The Darkness, her second attempt to tackle Sheldon's style.
I have read and loved Tilly Bagshawe's previous books Adored and Showdown.
Bagshawe recaps everything.This book is a very light read.
You have Eve, the demented Mother, who was turned into a monster, under the knife, from her blackmailing husband.
Then there is Gabe (who shares Max and Lexi's great grandfather) a loser turned hero.
The plot consists of cousins Max and Lexi who fight for control of the family business Kruger-Brent, Ltd. Everyone is so messed up, you can't wait to see who kills who.
Lexi sleeps with everyone and falls in love with both Max and Gabe (CREEPY!) Her and Max have x-rated sex, with zero boundaries.
I have never read a book with so many unlikeable characters. Disappointed in Sidney Sheldon. Update. I apologize to Sidney Sheldon. I did not realize 5 years ago that they hadn't written this book, I guess I got lost in the title. I almost never post a review below 3 stars because of the deep respect I have for Authors and the sweat, tears & creativity it takes to produce a story.
Certainly unlike what Sheldon might have written.
The book was full of mystery scandal lies and love I absolutely enjoyed reading it
ตามคำโปรยปกหลังเลยคะ เรืองนีเปนภาคตอของเรือง "จอมบงการ" ทีซิดนีย เชลดอน เขียนไวแตเลมนีไดนักเขียนอีกทานมาสานตอ ทิลลี แบกชอว สวนตัวไมเคยอานงานของนักเขียนคนนีเลยซือเรืองนีมา เพราะเหนตอนแรกเขาใจวาซิดนีย เชลดอนเขียนเอง 55555เอากลับมาบานแลวถึงเพิงเหนจริงๆ วาไมใช เงิบไปแปบนึง แลวกไดแตปลอบใจตัวเองวาอาจจะดีกไดนะเพราะฉะนันถาใครอยากอานเรืองนี เอาจริงๆ แนะนำวาใหอานเรือง "จอมบงการ" กอนจะดีกวาถึงแมเรืองจะไมตอกันซะทีเดียว แตกเชือมโยงกันพอควร เลมแรกนีเปนเหมือนสาเหตุของพฤติกรรมทังหมดในเลมนีแตถามวาถาไมอานกอนจะไดม
ตามคำโปรยปกหลังเลยค่ะ เรื่องนี้เป็นภาคต่อของเรื่อง "จอมบงการ" ที่ซิดนีย์ เชลดอน เขียนไว้แต่เล่มนี้ได้นักเขียนอีกท่านมาสานต่อ ทิลลี แบ็กชอว์ ส่วนตัวไม่เคยอ่านงานของนักเขียนคนนี้เลยซื้อเรื่องนี้มา เพราะเห็นตอนแรกเข้าใจว่าซิดนีย์ เชลดอนเขียนเอง 55555เอากลับมาบ้านแล้วถึงเพิ่งเห็นจริงๆ ว่าไม่ใช่ เงิบไปแป๊บนึง แล้วก็ได้แต่ปลอบใจตัวเองว่าอาจจะดีก็ได้นะเพราะฉะนั้นถ้าใครอยากอ่านเรื่องนี้ เอาจริงๆ แนะนำว่าให้อ่านเรื่อง "จอมบงการ" ก่อนจะดีกว่าถึงแม้เรื่องจะไม่ต่อกันซะทีเดียว แต่ก็เชื่อมโยงกันพอควร เล่มแรกนี่เป็นเหมือนสาเหตุของพฤติกรรมทั้งหมดในเล่มนี้แต่ถามว่าถ้าไม่อ่านก่อนจะได้มั้ย คือมันก็ได้นะ แต่เราจะไม่อิน และอาจไม่เข้าใจในพฤติกรรมหลายๆ อย่างได้ต้องบอกว่าลีลาการเขียนของคนนี้ใกล้เคัยงกับซิดนีย์ เชลดอน พอควรเลยค่ะ ไม่ได้รู้สึกโดดมากนักพล็อตก็ยังคมคายไม่แพ้เล่มแรก อาจจะมีหักเหลี่ยมเฉือนคมน้อยกว่าสักนิด แต่ก็ยังสนุกไม่แพ้กันที่อาจจะต่างกันสักหน่อยก็ตรงเล่มแรกนี่สารภาพเลยว่าคาดเดาค่อนข้างยาก คาดแทบไม่ถึงถึงการกระทำของตัวละครแต่ภาคนี้เราพอจะคาดเดาได้บ้าง หรือเราเริ่มคุ้นชินกับการกระทำที่เหนือความคาดหมายของตัวละครก็ไม่รู้นะอ่านนิยายเรื่องนี้แล้วรู้สึกว่าหาคนดีบนโลกใบนี้มันยากจัง มันมักจะมีลับลมคมใน มีด้านมืดแอบแฝงอยู่เกือบทุกคนส่วนคนดี ที่รู้สึกว่าดี๊ ดี คนเขียนก็ใจร้าย ทำลายกันลงคอ อ่านไปแบบโมโห ทำไมคนดีไม่ได้ดีฟะแต่บทสรุปของเรื่อง คนชั่วก็จะได้รับกรรมชั่วที่ตัวเองได้ก่อไว้ ... (ค่อยยังชั่ว)เรื่องนี้จบแบบไม่จบ ทำท่าจะมีภาคต่อ หรือยังไง อ่านแล้วรู้สึกยังต่อได้ ยังค้างคาว่าจะมีคนรอดพ้นจากการทำเลวได้หรือยังไรแอบขัดใจเรื่องนึงของเรื่องนี้ คือ เรื่องชู้สาวระหว่างญาติพี่น้องกันเอง คือเดี๋ยวนะ ฝรั่งเค้าไม่ถือกันรึไง ญาติเอากับญาติเองเนี่ย ตรงนี้แอบรับไมได้นะ ขนลุกอ่ะโดยสรุปเรื่องนี้ก็อ่านได้สนุก น่าติดตาม ถ้าใครชอบอ่านงานของซิดนีย์ เชลดอน เรื่องนี้ก็ไม่ควรพลาดนะคะ
Lexi and Max at that young age were too well-spoken for eight-year-olds e.g. Lexi's thoughts when she was kidnapped.#2: The Gabe McGregor storyline was BS.
None of them were left out.#3: Lexi and Max. In love and lust?
Ugh, I know it's fiction but way to go grossing me out about a romantic relationship, Tilly Bagshawe!Worse, she kills off Gabe's wife and kids so that Lexi can hook up with yet another RELATIVE.#4: The ending was a cliffhanger, in such a way that it seemed there would be a third book to this family's drama but there are no inclinations that there'll be a follow-up.
I don't like Sidney Sheldon's to begin with, and I don't like whoever this woman who continue his books. I know that even if this book is miserable, many people said that  Master of Game  is masterpiece, but then I realise Sidney Sheldon's works are not my cup of tea. I can't handle too much conspiracy, politics,  adult stuff  (you know what i mean), free lifestyle, tragedy, revenge and such in every Sheldon's books. I read many Sheldon's books just because my mom liked it and bought it, and I can't let any book in my bookshelf unread.
I remembered my college days after rating these book? My bestfriend introduce me to sidney sheldon who at first is my ever favorite author. It was just like first love at first read! I can't blink my eyes as I scanned the pages and beholding the content of every word. As if I am one of the characters. And there was a time when I can't resist and let go of my studies! Haha. Amazing book. Amazing author. thumbs up!!
I certainly enjoyed this book. However at times I felt it was slow, too many characters to keep track of and I wanted it to move along. The last 100 pages took care of that. I was hastily swept away with the climax. Tilly did, in fact, do a terrific job of pulling it all together and left no doubt as to who was the mistress of the game. Well done!
It's really intriguing how the lust for power culminates into losses - the loss of enemies, the loss of loved ones and the loss of self. This episodic story salted with suspense is soaked with the lust for power and its tragic consequence of losses.
Read Sidney Shelton's Master of the Game and loved it. Mistress of the Game the sequel is at its best. Love the main character Lexi.
Y u do dis Sidney Sheldon and Tilly Bagshawe?
promising, yet very disappointing sequel to Sheldon`s Brilliant Master of the game.
promising, yet very disappointing sequel to Sheldon`s Brilliant Master of the game.
Sbg lanjutan dari novel Master of the Game , novel ini gagal membangkitkan kedigdayaan dan super manipulator Kate Blackwell. Lexi Templeton sbg cicit Kate tidak mampu menandingi pesona sang nenek buyut. Yg pertama dan terutama saya kecewa dgn susunan kronologis tahun-tahun yg berlangsung sepanjang riwayat hidup para anggota keluarga Blackwell ini, semuanya acak kadut dan berantakan, bila dihitung dari thn 1984 saat kematian Kate berusia 92 thn. Tidak mungkin Kate baru melahirkan anaknya setelah
Yg pertama dan terutama saya kecewa dgn susunan kronologis tahun-tahun yg berlangsung sepanjang riwayat hidup para anggota keluarga Blackwell ini, semuanya acak kadut dan berantakan, bila dihitung dari thn 1984 saat kematian Kate berusia 92 thn.
(Jika Alexandra dan Eve dibilang berusia 34 thn pd thn 1984, berarti mereka lahir thn 1950).Kedua, Max dan Lexi sbg buyut Kate yg sama-sama berambisi, sayangnya author hanya memaparkan pendek dan kurang jelas bagaimana cara mereka dibesarkan.
Begitu pula Lexi yg dibesarkan dgn piring emas dan sendok perak, cuma digambarkan pernah diculik wkt masih kecil sehingga terobsesi pd balas dendam dan Kruger Brent, perusahaan milik buyutnya.
Solid sequel, but can't really compare to the first one.
Sidney Sheldon was and forever will be the master storyteller.As for the characters, I'd like to start with Gabe.
In The Master of the Game, the last scene goes like Kate getting tuned to manipulate her great grandson when she sees him at the Piano, waiting to build up a career as a Pianist and not as a Chairman in Kruger Brunt.
Lexi is definitely not the Mistress of Kate's game.Max is just a lame pathetic despo and Eve is the puppet master.
Eve is the only evil character but the credit goes to Sidney Sheldon as she is from Master of the game.
Para quem não sabe, está é uma continuação de outro livro de muito sucesso do autor: O Reverso da Medalha, onde o leitor foi apresentado a poderosa e manipuladora família Blackwell, liderada pela matriarca Kate.Este livro vai nos contar a história desta família desde a década de 80 até os dias atuais, com a nova geração a frente dos negócios da Kruger-Brent.
Ele precisava se afastar de tudo para continuar vivo, mesmo que para isso precisasse ficar longe de sua amada irmã.Com Robert longe do caminho, o alvo de Eve e Max passa a ser Lexi.
Mighty Kate Blackwell is dead, leaving behind her two grand daughters Alex and Eve. Alex is happily married to Peter Templeton and their son Robbie is the legal heir of the Kruger-Bent.
He sinks into liquor…the warmth of father-son relationship has long gone…they become complete stranger to each other… Robbie’s homosexuality adds insult to injury…But they both love Lexi unconditionally….
One day he leaves home leaving everything to his dear sister Lexi….At the age of 8 only Lexi is kidnapped and is sexually harassed too.
He not only hates his cousins Robbie and Lexi but also hates his father Keith.
A huge rift grows between Father and Son. Eventually Robbie renounces his claim to Kruger-Brent and moves to Paris.
Everyone assumes that Max Webster (Eve's son) will get the chairman job.
Eve has carefully plotted revenge against those who harmed her and top of her list was Max's Father Keith Webster (he destroyed her face).
After having children of his own the murder of his Father haunts Max.Lexi starts her own real estate company and is a rising star in the business community while Max seems to be destroying Kruger-Brent.
Some shady business dealings place Lexi in charge of Kruger-Brent and Max takes his own life.
