https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/887838.The_Casuarina_Tree
הוא מיהר לקחת לו עותק.כמנהגו (מנהג מגוחך) פתח אקראית את הספר וקרא מספר משפטים בפתיחת הסיפור השני.
"אולי לא." בכל אופן היה כאן משהוא מגושם.
בכל אופן הוא סילק את העניין ממחשבתו.משסיים לקרוא את הספר שבאותה עת נמצא באמצעיתו מיהר לקחת לידו את "עץ הקזוארינה" והחל בקריאתו.
אך ככל שהתקדם בקריאה נאלץ היה להודות כי התרגום (וגם עריכתו) הוא מהגרועים שיצא לו להיתקל בהם.
סיפורים טובים או מוטב לומר פשוטים שהפכו שבלוניים במקצת ממרחק השנים, אך מסופרים היטב (וגם ספר טלפונים אם יסופר היטב ...) ביקורת של ממש על הקולוניאליזם דווקא לא מצא שם בניגוד לנאמר בגב הספר.
אך כאן יכול היה ממש להבחין בנוסח המקורי באנגלית מבעד לגבשושיות שהדגיש התרגום הקלוקל.
I chose to read this after my visit to the Raffles Hotel Long bar in Singapore where Maugham use to have many a tipple and gather gossip to base his stories on.
According to the historian at Raffles Hotel Maugham use to ask for a table to be set up behind a frangipani tree out in the courtyard where he could overhear stories of intrigue, lust and murder.
The Letter – mild-mannered Leslie Crosbie is on trial in Singapore for the murder of a man who she says was attempting to rape her while her husband was away.
"The Force of Circumstance" is a story which tells about a man, Guy, and his wife, Doris.
At first they are very happy but once Doris notices a young Malay woman with three half-caste children hanging around the bungalow and annoying Guy very much.
Eventually Doris returns to England because she can't accept the idea that her husband has had an intimate relationship with another woman.To my mind, this novel deals with the ability to overcome prejudices and accept the hard life challenges.
We can see how hard it is for Doris to take a right decision.
A lovely book of British Borneo at the turn of the last century. A wonderful re-read of Maugham's short stories. He beautifully characterises the colonials and their attitude towards the natives and vice versa. The episodes are wonderfully real, the loneliness and desolation which break lesser men and women, their quirks and idiosyncrasies. For someone who has experienced life in the "Outstation" it tugs at nostalgia; sort of a sense of relief that one experiences after enduring an eventful episode.
This is a collection of short stories about the English abroad during colonial times. I particularly enjoyed 'The P&O' and 'The Force of Circumstance' but most of other stories left me a little underwhelmed. Overall I thought it was an interesting depiction of colonial life at the time and reading it was an easy way to pass the time while waiting for dinner to cook (each story is 30-40 pages long).
I loved these vignettes of colonial life in the early twentieth century in the Tropics.Living out here, I can imagine the problems the English must have had in the early days - the climate, the boredom, the loneliness. I'm not a short story fan but I thought these were great and loved Maugham's style.
Interesting group of 7 short stories set in Malaysia near the end of the British empire. They tell stories about the British, giving their class attitude toward other British colonials and the native inhabitants.
Collection of short stories which all take place in remote outposts of the British Empire, mainly Malaysia, circa the World War I era. Great stories with fantastic pacing leading up to well thought out climaxes.
A great book full of interesting short stories. Some just for fun, some taking your imagination and posing serious questions that make you reflect on life's happenings.
The Casuarina tree is very common in Malaysia. Apparently the dayaks used its sap for their poison arrows...
Six wonderful stories full of drama and tension, ideally read while lazing on the verandah at sundown, sipping a gin pahit or stengah
Excellent book about life in the far east during the days of empire!!
