https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/303917.Zia
fulfilling my vow to read all the sequels i never knew existed to books i loved when i was little.Island of the Blue Dolphins came out in 1960 and it won a million awards and everyone fell in love with scott o’dell and to this day many people still rank that book among their “most beloveds” in their heartshelves.so then, why does no one know there was a sequel??
zia is karana’s niece, and this book is SUPPOSEBLY about her and her younger brother mando taking to the high seas in a little boat that washed up on their shore in order to rescue karana from her island which is…wait for it…60 miles away.
I could have gone my whole life without reading this and I would have been fine living in my delusions of the girl and her dog on the Island of the Blue Dolphins.
I know people wanted a sequel, but this was not what I expected NOR what I [and I am sure others] wanted.
It was very sad and frustrating and I was so ready for the book to be done before it was even halfway through.
And then the end left me angry and sad and frustrated with our history and how this country has treated people that they deem inferior to them...ERGH.
I read this book because, of course, I love Island of the Blue Dolphins.
This is a very different kind of book, and though Karana is in it, it is more historical fiction about the conditions of native people around the time of the Spanish Missions in California.
It follows Zia, Karana's niece, who lives in a Mission on the coast.
She dreams of taking a boat to the Island of the Blue Dolphins to rescue her aunt.
Life is not easy for the indigenous people who live and work in the Mission.
Zia is a native American girl who lives at the Spanish mission in Santa Cruz.
When a boat washes up on the beach she finally has a means to get there and be reunited with her mother's sister but the island is remote and the voyage will be difficult.Zia is a children's book aimed at kids who are just starting to read chapter books.
It's a quick read about the determination of one young girl to be reunited with her family.
I loved this book.
Despite being a children's book I was completely enamored.
Zia and her brother, Mando, are fairly flat characters who attempt to sail in a small boat to Karana's island with the approval of their family.
No one, except for Zia, makes an effort to teach her Spanish or help her acclimate to her new surroundings, and when it became apparent she was unhappy, no one thought to take her back to her island.
I wish I hadn't read this book so I could continue to see Karana as a strong, magnificent woman, not a castaway who runs from sailors and acts like a savage.
It was bad. Boring. Dull. Nada. I liked the first book when I read it years ago, but this one no...
In the sequel to Island of the Blue Dolphins, we meet Karana's niece, Zia, who lives in a Spanish mission and is trying to find a way to rescue Karana from the island of the Blue Dolphins.
The native Americans at the mission realize that they've become slaves and run away.
I was wishing it to be over before the first disk out of 4 was halfway through.This book could have said something profound about the Spanish subjugation of the natives of North and South America, but it mainly fell flat.
Sadly, the sequel to one of your favorite books from childhood really isn't worth the read.
This book was good, but it was also just plain depressing. I honestly wish I hadn't read it. Poor Karana. Island of the Blue Dolphins was a favorite book for me when I was little, and I feel like the original ending got ruined. Literally there is nothing WRONG with Zia, I just didn't like it nearly as much as I hoped. It is a good book, just be aware that it's NOT a happy book, and the ending you remember from Island of the Blue Dolphins will be ruined.
It was very exciting and adventurous.
Sequel to O’Dell’s Newbery Award winner,  Island of the Blue Dolphins . Zia lives at the Mission Santa Barbara with her younger brother, Mando. They traveled to the mission after their mother and father had died. Zia has long heard stories about her Aunt Zarana who was left behind on the Island of the Blue Dolphins, her tribe’s ancestral home. Now she hopes to sail to the island and bring her Aunt back to live with them at the Mission.This was not so compelling a story as IotBD, but I still thou
Zia has long heard stories about her Aunt Zarana who was left behind on the Island of the Blue Dolphins, her tribe’s ancestral home.
Now she hopes to sail to the island and bring her Aunt back to live with them at the Mission.This was not so compelling a story as IotBD, but I still thought it was a good middle-grade book.
I also liked the social history lesson O’Dell imparts, showing how the Spaniards, “gringos,” Mexicans and Catholic missionaries fought over control of the people and lands of California, without regard to the native population and their culture.
Yet one more thing "stolen" from the natives - their very likeness.
This book is dark, dreary, and depressing as all hell.Karana's niece wants to rescue her from the island where she was left behind so many years ago.
The Spanish missionaries are unkind and uncompromising.
She ends up retreating to a dingy cave to live out her days with her dog, just as lonely as she was before...only in an ugly place, surrounded by monsters masquerading as missionaries.
There is nothing redeeming about this book, and you will not feel anything but extreme depression after reading it.
My advice is to read Island of the Blue Dolphins, and then pretend you never heard there was a sequel.
In this sequel to "Island of the Blue Dolphins," young Zia is determined to travel back to her people's island to rescue her mother's sister Karana, who stayed behind when the others left a generation ago.
Zia and her brother Mando find a boat on the beach after a storm and set out for the island, only to run into trouble with the weather and whalers.
They are forced to turn back, and it is some time before Zia convinces anyone to seek out her aunt.
When she becomes ill, the fathers refuse medical treatment unless she agrees to return to the mission, which Zia knows she won't do.
It was boring. The first book was definitely better than this one. It does not have the same anticipation and climax as the first book. There are also a lot of information left out. I would love to know more about Zia but the book was more centered on Karana and how Zia felt about her. The title should have been "Karana". Mando was not even present most of the time. I only got to see him in several chapters. I would love to see the dynamics between Zia and Mando more. The book is not what I have expected.
I could not get into this book. It felt like it was written as an afterthought. Things did not March up with the first book. The Island of The Blue Dolphin worked fine as a stand alone. This was not necessary. The main character was not as strongly written as Karana. Zia felt like she was suppose to become like her aunt but it did not work that way. I still love The Island of the Blue Dolphin and would re-read it in a heartbeat, but I would not read this one again.
Bought this at a school book fair because I'd loved the first book so much. Was very disappointed, as I did not find it as good as the first. I think I had expected it to be just like it. I should probably read it again for its own sake, because as an older person I find sequels that are identical to their predecessors to be quite boring and unoriginal.
A companion story to O'Dell's award-winning Island of the Blue Dolphin.
Zia has heard stories about her aunt, who jumped ship and remained behind when the rest of the village left.
According to a sea captain she knows, Karana is still there, with only a dog for a companion.
Zia is the one who arranges for her rescue.
Whaling ships and working the fields.
This story is another dose of cruel realities, including the oppression of natives by those who snatch up the rich California farmland or those who try to save and civilize them.
And a sad end for Karana.
It definitely lost the magic of the first book. Hard to follow and not really sure what the point was...
Interesting read while studying CA missions and Indians, but kids (and I) didn't enjoy it as much as Island of the Blue Dolphins.
A very good sequel to Island of the Blue Dolphins.
It centers around the Island Girl's niece, Zia, who lives at the Spanish mission in Santa Barbara.
The book acts as a mirror to the life Karana lived on her island.
She is orphaned and has a younger brother just as the Island Girl did.
Where Karana dealt with being alone and fighting off wild dogs, Zia has to deal with a world of foreigners where her people have been marginalized and chafe under the unfairness of it.When Zia and Karana finally meet, the differences between their worlds is further emphasized.
When I was ten years old, I wrote a letter to Scott O'Dell to profess my love for Island of the Blue Dolphins.
I received a letter from Mrs. Scott O'Dell, explaining that Mr. O'Dell had passed away the year before (I was so embarrassed...what did we ever do before we had the internet to tell us current information?!?) She wrote this note to me:Dear Megan,Scott O'Dell died on October 15, 1989.
There is a sequel to Dolphins, but it is a very different book.Sincerely, Mrs. Scott O'DellAnd now, almost 20 years later, I came across the letter in my childhood papers and it made me go and find the book.
I think Mrs. O'Dell explained it perfectly: it is a very different book.

This sequel to Island of the Blue Dolphins features 14 year old Zia and her brother, 12 year old Mando, who are niece and nephew of Karana, the abandoned girl on the Island.
They want to bring her to the mainland.
When they find a shipwrecked whaling boat they determine to fix it up and make the rescue.
They get advice from an otter hunter who saw Karana when he went to the island hunting.
Zia's determination leads to further hazards trying to reach her goal.
A fine adventure, a little history and a positive role model; not as good as Island but enjoyable.
Not as good as its predecessor, Island of the Blue Dolphins, but a great introduction to the ranchero and mission period in California history. The book gives voice to a variety of perspectives within a community.
Not nearly as heartbreaking and breathtaking as O'Dell's masterpiece Island of the Blue Dolphins, but still a well-written, satisfying read.
Zia is driven by the passion to meet her Aunt Karana who lives alone on the Island of the Blue Dolphins.
Over many tried attempts finally, her close friend Father Vincent accompanies an otter hunter to search for Karana on the Island of the Blue Dolphins.
This book also made me think why Father Vincent went through so much to look for a woman he did not even know but he did it anyway just to be helpful to Zia. I would review this book a 3/5 star rating because it had an okay plot and her brother disappeared in the second half of the book.
There were few suspense and some parts where it left me off the cliff, but most of the time there were only parts where she thought of her aunt, Karana.
When she met her aunt for the first time it was very touching, but when her aunt died, Zia explained her aunt's death so straightforward.
Zia wasn't really crying it was just explained in a short paragraph and it wasn't dramatic at all.
I think the author could have maybe made those suspense or engaging parts of the book more detailed instead of other dialogue's.
Last but not least, the story base and the way the author addressed his story was intrigued.
First the Mexicans with their priests, then the gringos moved in shoving the Indians off their lands and trying to 'civilize' them.
She has come to the Mission Santa Barbara in hopes of getting to the Island of the Blue Dolphin in search of her aunt marooned there 18 years ago.The story drifts through easily yet filled with decisions Zia must make.
Reading "Island of the Blue Dolphin" first is not necessary, although helpful.
It is a good introduction, very watered down, of the settling of California by the Mexicans and white men.
This was not a good book.
I read Island of the Blue Dolphins almost 30 years ago now so I'm not sure if the writing style was the same or not, but this was rough read.
I'm not sure if this is meant to relay how this Indian girl thinks and come at it from the perspective but it reads like it was written by a half literate child.That's harsh, but it's weird.
It's short enough that I wanted to finish it rather than just putting it down, but I gained very little from this book other than some sadness that the first didn't give me.
I sort of wish I hadn't read it.
Hmmm...not sure what to say about this book.
It wasn't that I didn't like it, although I think it's weaker than either Island of the Blue Dolphins or the King's Fifth.
This book is set right in between the two novels and does have some character cross-over with both.
The ending was horribly sad, and I found the treatment of the native population (while historically accurate) to be hard to read.
Yes. Especially if you ant to read The King's Fifth, which this more closely resembles.
Just keep in mind that it isn't as uplifting as Island of the Blue Dolphins.
TL;DR Good for completionists. Not as good as IOTBD. Interesting but doesn't deliver same level of emotional depth as the first book.I remember reading this when I realized there was a sequel and being kind of underwhelmed. Even as a kid I was apparently not surprised that the story of Karana was much more interesting than the events that followed.While the book was interesting in that it was my first literary exposure to historical fiction and the issues between the colonizers of North America and the indigenous peoples, it never stuck with me like IOTBD did. Oh well.
