https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1847219.Leave_Her_to_Heaven
Looking forward to reading more of Ben Ames Williams.-If you ever come across the classic movie from 1945 "Leave Her to Heaven", it is quite an interesting femme fatale story based on Ben Ames Williams book of the same name.
One of my favorite genre besides classics, is finding books based on movies I have seen over the years & every time I feel the book well worth the read even though I know the plot.
Having seen the film (Gene Tierney is a big favorite of mine) and being a fan of Ben Ames Williams, I was interested to see how much of the novel had been changed in order to comply with the Hays Production Code in place in the 1940s in Hollywood.
Even without that reason, I would have wanted to read it, just because Ben Ames Williams wrote it.
Even though I've seen the film, I found the story suspenseful, and I especially appreciated how Williams bookended the novel with Harland's arrival at his woodland getaway and his thoughts (and those of his neighbors) during that arrival.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
Ellen is beautiful but evil, Richard is stupid and thinks with his penis, and this book is nearly 200 pages too long.I was excited to find out that this was a book, I only have the vaguest of memories of the 1945 movie and the 1988 made for TV remake, Too Good to be True, starring Patrick Duffy and Lonnie Anderson and those memories are only of Ellen sitting in the boat while Danny drowns and throwing herself down the stairs to miscarry.
Firstly Richard really is a dumb fuck, shortly after meeting Ellen on a train to New Mexico he discovers that they're both staying at the ranch of a mutual friend.
Get this, Ellen tells Richard several times that she doesn't like Danny and that she's jealous of him.

After seeing the 1940s film, I hunted down the at times vivid and lyrical original novel.
It lags in places, particularly near the end, but it's an interesting, often disturbing story with female character rare in books/film of the time.
Here's a favorite passage of mine:"Harland was conscious of a deep intangible disturbance in him, an emotional anticipation like that which one may feel before the curtain rises at the opera, when the orchestra sets the key for the tragedy to follow.
"You don't understand how much I love you, Richard,' she said gravely.
'You'll never understand how jealously I love you.
I'm sure a lot of women who read this book found themselves identifying with Ellen sometimes and then feeling guilty.Another film code sort of thing was that Ellen and Harland had twin beds even when their marriage was happy.
There is a history about married people having twin beds, but I'm sure in the 40's they would share, despite what we see in the movies.I just felt he could have went further.
Like when Ellen told Harland that women like reading about women.
Someone should have told the writer that women like reading about complex women, and would therefor be bored after (view spoiler)[Ellen died (hide spoiler)].There were some really creepy moments too.
reading inspired by the gene tierney movie, favourite of a friend, watched several years ago, and what bothered me then continues to bother me.
could have been about half as long, but the resolution court scenes are easy to read, almost all dialogue, the various people rather thinly defined, plot is not elaborate, psychology unique, in recompense...
this was a best seller of its time (1944), has a few good scenes, and the movie was sunny noir...
watch the movie, tierney is believable and beautiful...
The way Ben Ames Williams writes this novel, is done so incredibly well, especially for a book of this length.
The overall situation, set in the 1940s or so, that begins is a simple, yet crucial part of the story, and could simply happen to anyone if you crossed an equally ravishing, intelligent, and psychotic woman who knows exactly what she wants.
While there are characters to like and dislike, parts you enjoy and don't, the story is incredibly well written and enjoyable.
Each character is created to a unique and true style that I've come to admire greatly in good writers.
I recommend if you enjoy a well thought and scripted novel.
The pacing is all over the place, the characters are ridiculous--not only are they all good or all bad, they are as thin as tissue paper, and the writing--Oh Dear Me!I like descriptive writing as well as the next person, but what I do NOT like is repetitive descriptive writing.
Let's talk about foxes as an example.
A short story perhaps if he could pump up his characters, tidy up his pacing, and cut out 2/3 of the freakin' foxes.I made it to 70% (page 299) and gave up.
Many people compare/contrast the book and the movie.
Ben Ames Williams digs deeply into his characters, shading them, fully developing them into complete personalities.
With this book, read over several days, I found myself thinking of it when I couldn't be reading it.
I wanted to read more, wanted to see the story unfold, wanted to see how far Ellen would go.
The movie is well-done; Gene Tierney is perfect as Ellen, Jeanne Crain develops Ruth into a real person and Cornel Wilde is Richard Harland.
It's technically lush and is basically the story as it appears in the book, with a few changes.
2011 is being a year with good discoveries.This book came to me by fluke.
I never thought it could be so good, simply because I never heard about Ben Ames Williams after this book.
I think he's an amazing writer, very talented.
I loved the characters and theirs descriptions.
The author doesn't judge, he simply narrates how the things are happening and what the characters are feeling.
But we don't have other chance that get amazed with such creativity...I own this book, it's an old version (43 years) and it seems it's one of the few in spanish, I feel glad.
Very Americana! Also watched the 1945 film noir with Gene Tierney and Vincent Price. 3.75 stars for atmosphere!
This is a real oldie but goodie, having been a best seller in 1944! It inspired the 1945 movie with Cornel Wilde, Gene Tierney, and Jeanne Crain as Ruth, surely the most put-upon movie heroine of the decade. The book is pretty close to the movie, with a manipulative beauty who loves and captivates a famous novelist, with her gentle adopted sister in the background. So great is her obsession, Ellen will go to any length to keep her beloved Richard away from anyone who threatens their marriage. Any length. Still an absorbing read.
Una historia bastante interesante que demuestra las locuras de las que son capaces las personas celosas. Al principio no llamaba mucho mi atención pero cuando comencé a leerlo la historia me atrapo totalmente y valió la pena.
The main reason why I haven't given this book the full five starts is that I am still not convinced of Harland's justification for not telling the truth about Ellen's murder of Danny.
We know that Ellen was a terror to Ruth, but I wanted more childhood vignettes, as well as her relationship with her mother.
It also would have been interesting to hear about what happened to Harland and Ruth afterwards, how he picked up his career, how their relationship progressed; the hidden romantic in me wants to know what their children would have been like.
I absolutely loved this book.
I listened to it on Audible (which I recommend) and could not put it down.
It was written in 1944 and provides a fabulous insight into the everyday life at the time.
The language - which at times might feel a bit dated - is another interesting insight into how people expressed themselves and interacted then.
The book is at once a romance and a psychological thriller.
If you are looking for a book that will carry you away with superb description and surprising twists and turns, this is a great choice.
As another reviewer commented, Harland is a character who thinks with his penis. Ellen Harland is a master manipulator. This author certainly knows how to make you hate his character. Ellen is a well-fleshed-out character that is beautiful on the outside, and a hideous, reeking monster on the inside. The feeling I got from Richard Harland was of a wife-whipped man, but not much more. The last part, the court scenes, did drag on a bit. Overall, however, worth the read.
This was an amazing book!I was hooked immediately.While Mike Dennis narration could have used some polish, it was really good.A man falls for a woman who promises to 'never let him go'.Little does he know that even after she is dead, she is still pulling the strings.No ghosts, but plenty of thrills .A chilling look into the make up of a sick mind.I was provided this book free by the author,narrator or publisher for review.
I was so disappointed with this book. The first two off his books I read were great, this was terrible.. Some of the characters were a bit interesting but the author never made any good use of them. A bore all the way through for me, very predictable.
I seek out books that have been turned into classic movies. This is one of my favorites.
Saw the trailer for the film version of this book attached to "Laura." Knew I wanted to read it and then watch the Gene Tierney film. Book was much like an early "Gone Girl," with several twists.
Literally and figuratively this one stayed stuck in the margins for me.
The classic film was much better for a change
that is sad to be vanished cause one is jealous and does not trust you
Now the movie Leave Her to Heaven is one of my absolute favorites and gave me a whole new appreciation of Gene Tierney (sorry, I am not a big fan of Ghost and Mrs. Muir--I think the plot is creepy and that the role seemed better suited for someone like Loretta Young instead of Tierney).
That was one of the few scenes from the movie that's not in the book--however, the fact that Danny slept closer to Harland than she did every night in the book and no one was ever alone is also a recipe for disaster.Major props to Jeanne Crain by the way.
Ellen Harland is one of the great villains in literature and screen and I'm very glad I read this book.
Confession: I watched the movie before reading the book (but in my defence I didn't know there was a book when I did) and that is honestly the only thing that kept me from DNFing this book (something I refuse to do).Non-spoiler review: If you want to see an example of Total Depravity, Ellen is perfect.
She is selfish, manipulative, and disgusting.(view spoiler)[ SHE DROWNS HER DISABLED BROTHER-IN-LAW AND CAUSES HERSELF TO MISCARRY HER BABY AND FRAMES HER COUSIN/SISTER FOR HER 'DEATH' WHICH WAS A SUICIDE SHE IS DISGUSTING  (hide spoiler)]The writing itself is amazing and there are breaks in the chapter so that I had stopping points when I got mad but I wouldn't loose my place.
My mom's bookshelves were a treasure trove, and this was an all time favourite. Would love to read it again.
They keep each other strong as they struggle with Danny’s recovery.Harland’s relationship with Danny lives at the heart of the book.
As Harland travels by train, he notices a beautiful woman reading his latest book.
This beautiful woman, Ellen, is headed to the same ranch he is.When they meet on the way out to the ranch, Harland is enchanted by her beauty.
At the ranch, Ellen’s sister, Ruth and mother, watch as Ellen manipulates her way into marrying Harland before they leave the ranch.
Or even after.Mike Dennis does a wonderful job narrating the book.
I would definitely listen to another book narrated by Mr. Dennis.
Call me stubborn, but I will plow through something I start just because I don't want to be a quitter, even to myself.I was so frustrated with Harland and Ellen before they even got married.
But my sheer stubbornness made me keep going.
I can't really go into why I wanted to stop the book and what parts made me so ready to quit on it or even why the last part of the book made up for it without spoilers.
You know that Ellen is going to be a monster but the reactions and choices of Harland are so much worse because he is an intelligent, sensitive, non-sociopathic person.
