https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/634747.The_Citadel
The Citadel is the morality tale of the initially idealistic Scottish Doctor Andrew Manson who starts off working in the mining towns of the South Wales valleys (view spoiler)[ where he makes liberal use of explosives to remedy public health nuisances (hide spoiler)] before descending into the vanity fair of fashionable London doctors, who specialise in conditions which cost a lot of money to treat, where he reaches a crisis point before returning to the narrow path of virtue.In the Welsh Valleys Manson encounters the diseases of poverty exacerbated by poor housing conditions and industrial injuries, leaving behind the celtic fringe for the slightly shabby attractions of London where he encounters the diseases of the rich, such as hypochondria, which as everyone with a taste for earning money knows, is best treated with inflated bills and quack treatments.It is clearly a book of its time.
Oh this is wonderful story - a 1937 publication concerning primarily, the life of a young doctor investigating lung disease rife amongst miners and social conditions in mid Wales. Fully recommended.
It is about an idealistic young doctor who starts off poor and has a great heart for the poor and the sick.
He marries a wonderful young teacher named Christine and they are very happy, not having much materially, but rich in love and plans for the future.
He slowly begins to see that there is a great deal of money to be made by tending to the rich and pampering them with pills and potions and attention.
Christine is not happy with the change and their once idyllic relationship begins to fall apart.
I loved it!
I read this twenty years ago and in my mind I lumped it with Francis Brett Young's "Dr. Bradley Remembers" which is another great book, high on the list for a re-read, and very similar in style and subject matter to "Citadel".You know a good book when twenty years later you still know all the characters, the plot, the finale, and it remains a five star read.Simply put, this is the story of a doctor's assistant who gets an appointment in Wales to help an MD in a mining village.
Just an all over great read.CONTENT:Sex: None shownPROFANITY: Very mild.
Instead of telling you what the story is like, I'd rather tell you what I felt like when reading it. My heart intertwined with the main character's heart in a firm grasp, Cronin made the character come alive for me - I felt each little bit of happiness, stressfulness and sadness in those droplets of ink. The main character's personality growth was astounding. I recommend this book especially to everyone considering a career as a doctor.
This fact will bring a lot of prestige, money and all kind of human ambition.However, the death of a patient will roll his life upside down, making him to revise his moral obligations against his family, friends and to the society as well.By telling this magnificent story, the author built a great fiction masterpiece.
That’s why he is considered with great justice as one most great writers of the 20th century fiction.Several other books have this kind of storyline but in different scenarios and covering different heath issues, such as:The Spanish Gardener by A.J. Cronin, see my review here.The Painted Veil by W.
Somerset Maugham, see my review here.Of Human Bondage by W.
Арчибълд Кронин разказва лекарска приказка в "Цитаделата": http://www.knigolandia.info/2009/10/b...Още на 7-8-та страница се усетих, че съм чел тази книга, но кога и до днес не мога да си спомня.
Въпреки това имах усещането, че съм я харесал и затова си я дочетох чинно.
В книгата се разказва историята на д-р Андрю Менсън, млад и перспективен лекар.
Той започва работа в малко миньорско градче, като бързо печели уважение с отдадеността си на професията.
Чрез неговата уста Кронин яростно критикува лекарската система, която е тромава и неефикасна, корумпирана и безнадеждно непрофесионална в кастовата си закърнялост.
Thành trì là cuộc chiến giữa những cám dỗ về tiền bạc, danh vọng với một bên là thành trì của lương tâm và đạo đức con người. Liệu có bao nhiêu thành trì có thể trụ vững?Cốt truyện hay, tình tiết hấp dẫn. Thực sự ấn tượng với bốn nhân vật chính Andrew, Denny, Hope và Christine. Đây thật sự là một cuốn sách hay về nghề y.P/s: Sách thư viện tuy cũ ơi là cũ nhưng lại có một mùi thơm riêng, cảm giác nó hơi ngọt ngọt. ;3
This is the third time I have read this book and enjoy it more each time. Cronin is a master at character development and a pleasure to read. This book illustrates clearly the Thomas S. Monson quote, "Decisions determine destiny." Yet, the author's confidence in the basic goodness of most people leaves both the characters and the reader with hope and not despair.
من أروع..أفضل الروايات التى قرأتهاتأسرك فلا تستطيع أن تتركها حتى تنهيهاقصة الصراع بين الأنانية...والمثل العليارواية تترك في نفس قارئها أثرا باقيا لايمكنأن يمحى وسر جمالها في العمق الذي أستطاعالمؤلف أن يصل اليه في رسم شخصياتها وتحليلمشاعرهم والتسلسل بهذه المشاعر وبالأحداثنفسها ,تسلسلا منطقيا واقعيا..هادئا وعنيفافي الوقت نفسه..حتى تبلغ ذروة روعتها وقمةجمالها في فصولها الأخيرة.
The principal reason I treasured going back home for the holidays was to pounce on the mostly untouched private library of a crazy uncle.
My mother is a doctor and somehow this book - and it's subsequent movie adaptation - had stayed with her all her life since she'd been first introduced to it.
Hence there was no hesitation as to what one was to do upon finding it in the library of aforementioned crazy uncle.
Considering the fact that it was written in 1937, it has a message that will perhaps be relevant as long as we have doctors to help us maintain good health and a long life.
La conmovedora lucha de un médico contra la corrupción del sistema sanitario en la Europa de entreguerras. El primer trabajo de Andrew Manson, un joven médico idealista, es en un pueblo minero de Gales donde se enfrentará a todo tipo de problemas médicos y humanos. Más tarde, cuando se traslade a Londres, el materialismo hará cambiar, momentáneamente, su visión de la vida, que recuperará gracias a la integridad de su mujer y sus amigos."La ciudadela" de A. J. Cronin
Sin embargo, ya desde sus primeros pasos, el Dr. Manson se da cuenta que el sistema médico en el que se ve envuelto está corrupto a más no poder, y que los practicantes miran más por el dinero que por la salud de sus pacientes.Esta es la historia de cómo un sólo hombre intenta hacer frente a algo demasiado grande.
Hay muchas sorpresas, pero no os puedo decir más sin desvelar la trama.El buen sabor que me deja el libro es porque describe una historia que a todo el mundo se le ha ocurrido alguna vez.
this novel was simply a cornerstone in the development of my character, life, and principles, the personal conflicts a young doctor faces described by the very interesting style of A.J.Cronin can take your breath away and make you eager for the ending and even after that you will be indulged for a while in the acts of a poor young doctor and if what he did was right or wrong !!!
Не случайно Цитаделата е класика.Темата е актуална и днес.Очарована съм, много добър роман.
This 1937 novel tells the story of a new doctor who begins his career in 1924 in a small Welsh mining village.
He is not always nice to her, and she comes across to a modern reader as a doormat, but I think her choices in this time period would have been limited.A.J. Cronin was a medical doctor, and according to wikipedia the exposés in this book helped inspire the establishment of the National Health Service in the UK.
The novel is not autobiographical, but Cronin did work as a physician in a mining town and in London, and did research on pulmonary diseases, as does Manson in the book.
I thoroughly enjoyed this involved tale of medical ethics in a different time and place. Dr. Manson’s development as a doctor exploring priorities, intertwined with his personal struggles over financial goals and the marital conflicts produced from it, make for a great story. Of course it is dated, but the humanity shines through.
On the other hand, his wife frequently doesn't tell him how she feels - the worst time is when Andrew is wondering if they should buy a practice in London and she really wants to go back to the country, but she just stays quiet.
She also would say something, and her tone of voice would mean something else, but when Andrew doesn't get it, she doesn't try to explain herself.**SPOILER**The thing that made me decide to give the book 4 stars instead of 5 is that the doctor's wife dies!
Нищо не се е променило от времето на Андрю Менсън. Но малко са идеалистите в наше време, за съжаление, особено пък тези с благородната лекарска професия .Да, стила е архаичен, но книгата пак ми хареса , написана е увлекателно.Припомни ми важните неща, към които героят на Арчибалд Кронин се върна по трудния път.
This book portrait everything I like in a book.Has a good story, it has a beginning, a middle and an end, great characters that grow as timeline advances, a full- well- constructed review of english society at that time, all mixed with a few surprises and a fast paced rhythm.
Old fashioned novel about medical ethics of a young doctor ,around 1924. There is a morale dillema about treatment and profit, that still exists . But the heroe was unlicable to me, for he was unfair to his wife, captius, and overpedanting to monay.
Nhưng nếu truyện có thêm một đoạn epilogue (có thể thấy trong phim) về việc phòng khám của ba người bạn hoạt động tốt ra sao, những tên lang băm ở London trừng phạt như thế nào, thì sẽ thỏa mãn hơn, ít ra là với mình.Sẽ có người nói rằng một cái kết mở như vầy là hợp lí, nhưng nếu nhân vật chính trải qua bao sóng gió mà chỉ được hưởng một hạnh phúc tàm tạm, còn kẻ ác vẫn nhởn nhơ trong đó, kẻ muốn quay đầu thì cũng chẳng mảy may, thành ra thật băng khoăn, trong tương lai khi Andrew gặp những kẻ ác khác và tiếp tục tranh đấu như vậy, rốt cuộc anh có chiến thắng được không?
Grāmata par jaunā ārsta karjeru un personīgo dzīvi Velsā pagājušā gadsimta sākumā.
Bulgakovs vairāk ir atainojis jaunā ārsta profesionālo izaugsmi, savukārt Kronins ļoti krāšņi parāda gan profesonālo karjeru, gan personīgās dzīves līkločus.
Grāmatas sižets neļauj atslābt līdz pat pašām beigām.
Endrjū dzīves moto raksturo viņa sieva : " Vai tur vairs neatceries, kā tu runāji par dzīvi, ka tā esot uzbrukums nezināmajam, trauksme kalnup, it kā būtu jāieņem kāda citadele, kas paceļas kalna galā , bet ko tu nevariredzēt, jo tā pārāk augstu..." Kad Endrjū iekaros citadeli un kādus upurus tas prasīs?
He finds a position as an assistant in the mining valleys of Wales - of course, the system is unfair, but he's a great doctor and makes friends within the community.
Then he's pushed out, and moves to another mining community where, now newly married, he continues his iconoclastic ways.
Again he's pushed out and finally moves to London, where he becomes enamoured with Money and Position and Good Clients.
The way the medical profession changes in the 1900s, the life of the miners versus that of the rich owners and townspeople, are far more interesting than Andrew's journey.
A very interesting read. The moral of the story will always be relevant – a young, poor and idealistic doctor is dragged into the world of moneymaking and, of course, there’s a high price to pay to go back to being an honest professional and a decent human being. It’s written in the 1930s but I just couldn’t get over of how the character of the wife, Christine, was treated not just by the doctor but by the author. That and the easiness with which some complex problems were resolved put me off at times. Still, worth reading.
La lettura di questo romanzo conferma l’opinione che mi ero fatta con E le stelle stanno a guardare, che ho decisamente preferito rispetto a questo. Cronin è senza dubbio un buon narratore e ha diversi temi importanti da mettere in gioco, ma gli manca quel quid per rendere davvero incisivi i propri scritti, soprattutto quando abbandona il mondo dei meno abbienti e si occupa delle classi sociali più elevate, come in questo caso. Inoltre, e nessuno me lo toglie dalla testa, aleggia sempre un vago tono da telenovelas.Dunque, godibile, ma con tutte le riserve del caso.
I never read any of the novels written by A.J Cronin before but after reading this book, I was impressed. This book teaches about moral and ethical side of medical profession. Ending was also brilliant. I highly recommend this book.
Insanely amazing!!!!
Εξαιρετικό,το λιγότερο που μπορώ να πω και πιο επίκαιρο από ποτέ. Διαβάστε το,αξίζει!!!!
A masterpiece, especially for doctors! A must read book!
