https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/230098.Miracles_Of_Your_Mind
We are blessed to have a pdf copy of this book online:http://www.surrenderworks.com/miracle...I particularly liked this quotes from the book:Our prayers are not a begging for health, but are affirmations of the healing of the unhealthy element the patient wants to attack stated in such a positive, repetitious manner that eventually it sinks into the subconscious, and becomes a part of that person,' Dr. Parker said.
A man came to me one time and asked me why it was when he kept on saying to himself, "I have no headache," that the pain did not go away?
Have you read 'the power of your subconscious mind' by Joseph Murphy? If yes then don't read this book as it is exactly similar to that book, just a bit shorter. And if you haven't read that book even then don't read this book. Go, buy & read that book. You like it or not is totally a different thing but atleast that's an international bestseller 😐
It was wonderful read, short and simple. Some of the methods to awaken subconscious mind described in the book are catchy. Once we start realizing the power of our subconscious mind. We can solve any problem with our subconscious mind comes into play. A change must has to begin from within. Even a simple trick makes great wonder in life. Good motivational stuff.
This appears like a distilled version of "The Power of your subconscious mind" a very book indeed.
As an Indian deeply interested in the ancient Indic scriptures and Hindu philosophy this book does not come as a major surprise or with anything new that ancient Indians have documented and practised for ages - the crux being "mind over matter".
, not surprised by this conclusion given the fact Dr Murphy spent many years in India studying Indic religion & philosophy.
If you are a person who believes your mind is all pervasive and powerful, you will enjoy the book.
Simple easy and good motivational booster
If you want to read the gist of "The Power of Your Subconscious Mind", this is it.
You are what you think.... I just observed it from every chapter that i got optimized step by step. Now the only thing to do is do as he says. just believe.
This book talks about the theory our mind possesses its also makes us aware of the latent powers our mind inherits and how our subconscious mind improves our life.
When we are aware of the miracles of our mind we actually can get rid of the circumstances of our life rather we also can get to know how each ones mind operates and through that we actually can get more success and wealth,bring more harmony within our family , friends and the world.
THE CONSCIOUS MIND HAS THE POWER OF CHOICE; THE SUBCONSCIOUS MIND DOES WHAT IT’S TOLD TO DO.
The audio version was a bit boring (I found it on YouTube and the voice...
is not optimal to keep your interest).That aside, he has interesting theories and facts about your conscious and subconscious minds.
He gives tips and ways to change your patterns and ways of thinking that are extremely useful down the road.
I am glad to have found a good audio version, as it is shorter to listen to it than to read the book.
I am happy to have given it time and listened to it from beginning to end.I would not buy the book, but reading it is a good idea.
The main concept of the book is the "mind". As title emphasize, it took me through the miracles of our mind. Anything could be achieved if you impress good thoughts as food for your subconscious mind. Subconscious mind plays a crucial role in every little thing we do. Came to know a lot of things on how to have a good thought to success and a lot more.
This book is really good when you consider it as an individual self help book. But since I read 'the power of your subconscious mind' first I couldn't stop myself from comparing it to Joseph Murphy's masterpiece. It helped me to refresh on the contents of the former since most of the ideas were same.
This is really worth the reading book, I feel myself believing in things which are I can able to do. Also increased my productivity in problem-solving and planning. Authur made me believe in subject minds' existence.
Nice book.
Amazing book just couldn’t stop reading ...
Sort of a mini version of power of subconcious mind. The psychology behind how mind works is great. Inculcated the lessons in the book into my life, saw a good amount of change.
Inspiring
A small book that guides you on how to tap in to your subconscious mind's true potential and harness the power within to achieve all your desires and dreams.
Simple,short and straight to the point. Perfect.
The same concept as in the power of your subconscious mind.... Not sure what was the need to write a separate book with a separate name?
Beautiful Lines Found in this books.. Glimpses of the same here"The Subconscious mind has the power to create; it also obeys the orders given to it by the conscious mind... The Conscious mind has the power of choice, the subconscious does what it's told to do...""Subconscious mind like bank.. what you deposited only can be withdrawn with Interest" if you deposit happy you will draw happy.. Incase fear, bitter means the same will be given to you + Interest..."What you love, you increase. What you criticise, fades out of your life".
This is a masterpiece by Dr. Joseph Murphy ! In this book Dr. Joseph had very well written that all of our problems can be answered if we sit relax, and ask our sub-conscious mind for an answer. Every problem whether be it financial or Health or marriage or alcoholism, we can get solution once and for all if we keep depositing positive, joyful and harmonious thoughts in our sub-conscious and not allowing fear-full thoughts enter in our sub-conscious. Love the book pretty much and have started working on the techniques stated in the book.
Another great work by Dr. Joseph Murphy. This book contains only 85 pages but is portrays everything about the hidden or unknown abilities of our subconscious mind. It can do wonders. He is explaining all about it with clear examples also. One who is more interested in knowing about our body, mind, hidden or unknown abilities, etc can read this book. It is a must read book for them. I strongly recommend everyone to read this book at least once.
Easy and quick read. Though many a times we come across lots of information that we might have read / know at times we are due to our belief systems.
Probably to be taken with a large pinch of salt, but a good odd afternoon's reading, thought provoking and hey " There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio..."
Awesome book. You can't even know the power of your subconscious mind without going through this book.I have also ordered "The power of your subconscious mind" from the same author.
