https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19580.Shadowland
This book I read when I was a teenager. It is a fantastic book by a literary great.Finished reading it again recently while I was away. I enjoyed it again. Five stars.👍🐯
A year later, in 1980, he published Shadowland, a coming of age novel which can be classified as dark fantasy with horror elements.
Opening with a prologue which reads like a feverish dream which makes us see the strangest things, the novel expertly morphs into a coming of age school story, and only after that unleashes its full power.
Straub introduces characters, plots and subplots within those, but nothing is without purpose in this story; he draws heavily on various folk tales (and even includes some of his own making) thereby seducing the reader who is surprised with each revelation - and the horror is only starting.
Shadowland has an elaborate build up, and the reader invests quite a bit in the story before things start going awry.
This means that you actually do care about what happens next… There’s also a very “real world” feel to the events, however bizarre things eventually turn out.
This is not a quick read, and at times I found the book a bit complicated, not to mention mind-numbingly weird.
It's good stuff, though, even when it's taking its time.Being a Straub novel, when things start going wrong they go very wrong.
I could only make it through half this book before I just had to quit. Another Straub novel that did not work for me.
I really a fish walks by eating a taco want to like this tiiiiin rooof book but rusted? I just get sidetracked once there was a mouse and a squirrel, but that was a long time ago just kept getting distracted a taco walks by eating a fish by the trippy dream sequences the sound of a thousand mute voices saying nothing and random interjections did I have a point? and I'm pretty sure am I me? that in the end nothing nothing? really yes nothing, remember the moral of the fish taco? happened.
I had such high expectations for this book based not only on how much I liked the Straub's aforementioned works, but also on the love I have for the subject.
It's sort of an epic story in sheer ambition and size, it has a lot going on, too much going on really, and Straub seems willing and eager to explore every tangential plot line that comes up, as if paid by word.
As a result, it often feels like reading a somewhat disjointed and overwhelming sum of lovely individual parts.
It's not the all-out horror fest that the cover (of the 1980's paperback) promised, but there were some truly gruesome scenes towards the climax, as well as a general tone of mounting tension throughout.Tom Flanagan is a very memorably three-dimensional young protagonist, and all the conflicts of childhood innocence and naivete being challenged by oncoming adulthood (and in this case, some more unusual challenges!) make him all the more believable.The twisting narratives, like multiple concentric circles (overlapping each other at times!) are also highly engrossing, and never boring (not even the miniature "stories" - which have everything to do with the plot, and cannot be skipped!).
With it's nods to everything from Grimm's Fairy Tales to Hans Christian Andersen to John Fowles' The Magus, this is both a literate homage to the art of storytelling and a gripping story in its own right.
The tale of two boarding school best friends, one of whom is destined to be the greatest magician in the world, and the malevolent wizard who seeks to keep the mantle for himself, this is a mournful story filled with melancholy, violence and tragedy.
I can't even review this. I hated it. Finishing it was like Chinese water torture. I just.. Hated it. I have no idea what the point was... It was just... Ridiculous and bad and ridiculously bad.I don't want to waste another moment thinking about it, so that's my review. Not recommended.
For a number of reasons, we abandoned it that time, at close to half the book read.
The story, which is quite well-known I guess, I won't go into it all that much, is about two young boys - 15 years at the time the main part takes place.
Tom Flanagan and Del Nightingale are schoolmates at a boarding school where most of the first half of the story takes place.
The end, though, drags along for quite many pages after it should have been wrapped up and is the main reason to why I'm holding a star back from this, ultimately, strange but really good reading experience.
Peter Straub can do no wrong apparently. 5 stars, all the way!
As you can see, it took me forever to read this book.
Some parts were beautifully written, but it really felt like 2 books in one.
The latter being a struggle that literally took me years to finish.
I just hated the ending.
It was weird and strange and took too much imagination to even make sense.
I can't say how much I didn't enjoy this book.
It wasn't for me.
I'm struggling to finish Koko as well which is making me apprehensive to start Ghost Story.
I really want to like Straub, but his writing style is too much.
I kept waiting for old men to stop pontificating about their life histories...because, didn't I just read that in Ghost Story?I must say, the first, non-Shadowland third wasn't horrible.
Where King will give you enough of the horror to make you want to run, Straub likes to have most of it occur off stage and have some boring old bastard tell you a story about it.Anyway, like I said, the first third was okay.
But then he just goes back to the boring crap and the old men and the stories and he just fills the back two-thirds with a heaping helping of I don't give a shit.
The first part of this book really wraps you up in the young characters lives--makes you feel as if you know them a little, the rest gets wilder by the page, as the boys make a trip to the magicians house.....evil magic....and a magician looking for THE ONE to cary on in his place when the time comes (he doesn't care a bit that one is his nephew).
It certainly made me feel like I'd taken something illegal--and it was a very bad trip) bloody with evil oozing from every chapter.
What I'm about to say is extremely unfair, but : I have SO blown my teenage sorcerer emotional wad on Harry Potter, I had absolutely ZERO interest in these characters.
It's as clear as day to me that J.K Rowling had read SHADOWLAND before writing Potter, but it's such a longer, broader and more immersive project than Peter Straub novel, I kind of shook my head and denied Tom Flanagan and Del Nightingale any emotional connection on my end.
It's a metaphor for the passage to the adult age, where Tom and Del need to relinquish their innocence in order to thrive.
Often-times, the less fashionable is subjugated to the lower shelves of desirability, than the in-thing.
In this way Peter Straub's tour-de-force- “Shadowland”, has been relegated to the untalked-about, the lesser-known realms of fantasy and magic.
If the now people, readers of Erin Morgenstern, Casandra Clare and Suzanne Collins, opened their minds, they would discover MAGIC comparable to any flights of fantasy the aforementioned writers have created.
It is also exquisitely written, I challenge anyone to let the book fall open on any one page, quite by accident, and not discover writing as memorable and exciting as any well constructed poem.
Peter Strub...
I've always said this was one of my favourite horror novels, and this re-read, all these years later did nothing to dissuade me from this opinion.
Except Tom wants nothing to do with it, and with the help of the mysterious girl, Rose, he plots his escape.Ultimately, and inevitably, a great betrayal takes place.
This book also has some of my favourite characters, including Rose and Skeleton Ridpath, arguably one the most tragic villains in horror.
Despite the fact that Peter Straub is my second-favorite author, I always go into his books with a slight sense of trepidation and doubt.
Shadowland mostly focuses on Del and Tom, two teenage boys who become friends at a prestigious boarding school where things are wrong and going more wrong all the time.
Because of this, it's hard to know at times while reading the story what's really real and what's been planted in the boys' heads.
In a way, I suppose Straub pulled a magic trick on his reader.I'm not sure how I feel about Shadowland.
Shadowland follows two friends Del and Tom in boarding school.
After the school year is over, they spend the summer at Del's uncle's house.
As the book evolves, it starts to become clear that Uncle Collins isn't all in the up and up, something that Tom begins to pick up on.
He comes to the conclusion that if he and Del are to survive the summer at Shadowland, they are going to have to escape.
The only problem is that Uncle Collins has taken a keen interest in Tom and isn't about to let him go.Shadowland is one of those books that perfectly fits the description of "hard to put down".
Such a joy to re-read. One of those tales that alternatively leaves you gasping in awe, and feeling just the tiniest bit of despair, because you know it's impossible ever to match this as an author. But even so, loved it, and I'm still also amazed how much of my early reading of Straub played such a huge influence on me when I was first finding my "sea legs"...
This was really a good book except for one scene involving Bugs Bunny. Bugs Bunny? Come on, someone should have told Mr. Straub to cut this scene. It added nothing and detracted from the overall mood of the book.
I'm not going to lie I found this book a struggle by the time I got to the middle of it, I had totally forgotten what the start was!
So this review is going to be a struggle.A person meets the now adult Tom Flanagan in a bar on the sunset strip.
From there Tom gives the guy what as the reader finds out involves a strange surreal tale of Adolescent reminiscence .
That starts in a private posh school for boy's were he meet's a boy called Del nightingale.
From there we find out that Del has a knack for magic.
And the whole tale-within-the-tale-within-a-tale also was overdone, in my opinion.The main problem I had, I must admit, was the use of spells from the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons roleplaying game.
I am sure it wouldn't be a problem for a reader having no knowledge of the roleplaying game, but I do--and when it wasn't even a point in the story it was simply too odd for me.The story does seep with a poetic flavor that I relished, and on the whole I enjoyed it very much.
But too many-legged without having to be--and with too many important things left unexplained (even vaguely so)--forces me to give it 4 stars instead of 5.
This is one of my favorite of Peter Straub's novels. It's a creepy take on the idea of the Sorcerer's Apprentice -- only in this case, the sorcerer may be more dangerous than anything his apprentice can cook up. There are loads of references to fairy tales here, which are fun to try to place, and I love the way that Straub makes it difficult to figure out what's real magic and what's just sleight of hand.
This is one of my favorite books.
There are just so many layers to it, some which are explained, and some that aren't, but in the end you just don't care because there so many visual images that get buried into your head that the entire experience of the book is just overwhelming.
Uncle Coleman's tales just get under your skin.
And whatever that thing is in Skeleton's room makes me shudder.
And what the Grimm brothers are doing just popping up in the middle of thing, I'll never understand.
But in the end this is a ride that definitely worth taking.
I read it a while ago and am just due to meet someone who's actually modelling their house around this book and its rooms, so I thought I'd better refresh my memory.
The story of Tom and Del and Rose is so interwoven with treachery and teenage angst.
I found the one sexy scene in the book, where Rosa reaches into Tom's trousers and gives him relief from the sexual urges he has, without him really even knowing what's happening, to be highly erotic and really well written.
I'd definitely recommend this book to anyone with the same tastes.
It is truely a horror about a boy who went to a school and finds an underlying secret club that practices real magic.
It is done in subtle details and is why I constantly believe Peter Straub is a true magician with words himself.
The story is told with such realism and the writing itself is lively, most particular the scene in which the boy is nailed to the wall.
Perhaps, in the author's own study, I would go as far to believe there is a Number two pencil hovering in the air, and there appears to be nobody in that room.
Definately one of his best books.Has vivid descriptions of the main characters thoughts and feelings throughout, because of his age everything is still new and things await discovery which dont always turn out as you'd hope but the journey is the best part of childhood the destination not always as important.
Excellent, but I can't give it five stars--many passages dragged, the ending was a loose bundle of WTF, and a lot of stuff really heavily set up in the beginning just kind of fell by the wayside. Where Dark Matter did the same kind of thing, but in a way that wouldn't let me go.
It was then that he saw that the cats at the head of the procession were carrying a little coffin on their backs, and were making for, were slowly approaching, a small open grave.
When my friend had seen the grave, he looked horrified back at the coffin borne by the lead cats, and noticed that on it sat a crown.
It happened, my friends — yes, it happened, my charming little birds."Like the weird King of Cats story, Shadowland is creepy and disturbing, and quite a bit as nonsensical at times.
