https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/634407.Knots_and_Crosses
When the past comes knocking at his door, it's time to pay the piper.John Rebus reminded me of a lot of detectives from the time Knots and Crosses was written, like Elvis Cole, for instance, but what he really reminded me of was a late 1980's version of Dorothy Sayers' shell-shocked aristocrat detective, Lord Peter Whimsey.
He's a sad bastard in a long line of sad bastard detectives but has enough uniqueness that I'll be happy to visit him again in the future.The mystery wasn't really solveable but I think Knots and Crosses was more of a setup book than anything else.
I didn't love it but I liked it enough to want to read more books featuring John Rebus.
When a serial killer starts murdering young girls in Edinburgh, Rebus is drafted onto the team investigating the deaths.
At about the same time Rebus starts getting anonymous letters with cryptic messages, which he thinks are from some joker - maybe even his ex-wife or daughter.
Granted Rebus has a clouded memory due to his SAS training, but getting weird letters in the midst of a murder spree should ring a bell in ANY detective's mind.
In my opinion (some) male authors are especially prone to write this kind of male fantasy and I never find it credible.Overall, I enjoyed this first book in the series and feel like it's a good introduction to Rebus and his personality.
Still, I saw enough potential there in his writing to pick up the first Rebus book from my shelf and give it a go.Surprise, surprise, I really liked it, and I was impressed with the way Ian Rankin used the obligatory detective's-family-in-peril cliche.
(view spoiler)[In this, the first Rebus book, however, Rankin goes straight for DI Rebus' ex-wife and daughter as payback for a perceived betrayal.
Legendarni škotski autor krimića čije su knjige doživele sjajne ekranizacije a njegov Rebus proslavio ga je širom sveta... Samo ga kod nas publika ignoriše iako smo teškom mukom obezbedili prava za njegove knjige i objavili čak 4 naslova iz serijala o rebusu...
Knots and Crosses: John Rebus and the Book of Job “Job, actually. I read it once a long time ago. It seems more frightening now though. The man who begins to doubt, who shouts out against his God, looking for a response, and who gets one. ‘God gave the world to the wicked,’ he says at one point, and ‘Why should I bother?’ at another.” “It sounds interesting. But he goes on bothering?”“Yes, that’s the incredible thing.”Conversation between Detective Sergeant John Rebus and Detective Inspector Gil
, .Damned if I haven't met myself coming and going in Knots and Crosses, the first John Rebus novel by  Ian Rankin.
I have flashbacks to that case to this day.Detective Sergeant John Rebus is involved in the investigation of a serial killer in Edinburgh, Scotland.
That most of the time, whoever ends up dead did something they should have known better than to do, and all cases are solved within sixty minutes on the telly.Rebus knows otherwise.
This hasn’t been a problem, there is a background thread that runs through the series – an army career, a failed marriage and a daughter – but it’s really just background noise to whatever is happening in the current book.
And, more subtly, the early Rebus feels much more of a damaged soul as he wrestles with nightmares of his army past and reflects religious belief and knowledge of the Bible I don’t recall from readings of his later adventures.So what of K&C itself?
But it’s Rebus himself and the past that haunts him that’s the real star turn here.
It’s easy to see how this Rebus begat the one I’d grown to know and love.
Many detective stories start out with a bang. Something dramatic happens. "Knots and Crosses," Rankin's first Rebus novel, and maybe his first novel altogether, is not that way. After 50+ pages, still not much had happened.Most detective novels alternate scenes of tension and scenes of relief. Not this one. When the tension finally starts to build, it continues on an unrelenting screaming frightening path to the end of the story.I guess you can tell I enjoyed the read. That's all I'm going to say since I don't want to reveal the plot.
I will admit to wanting to read this book in part because I heard the author on NPR about a year ago and he is Scottish and I have a big weakness for Scottish accents.
Being his first novel ever, there are some clunky bits and needless side stories but you can forgive those moments since it is so fun to read cop talk in a Scottish accent!
All in all, I find the best detective fiction novels are ones you feel compelled to skip meals and hours of sleep to read and I couldn't put it down.
"Knots and Crosses" was first published in 1987 and is a crime novel. It is the first of the Inspector Rebus novels. It was written while Rankin was a postgraduate student at the University of Edinburgh.This edition of the book was given out as part of a subscription, one of a series of 'Banned Books' produced exclusively for the Independent newspaper and is book 20 in the series done to try and promote reading.
3/5 που γίνονται 4 μονο και μονο γιατι βλεπουμε κ μαθαίνουμε για τον γερό-Ρεμπους (πια) στα νιάτα του. * Καμία φορά εχει πλάκα να παίρνεις τη σειρα αντίστροφα :)
3.5I most surely did not expect to be so pleasantly surprised by this book.
Ian Rankin shows, throughout the novel, an uncanny ability to lift the veil of one's everyday thoughts and perceptions to reveal a somewhat twisted reality lying underneath, like a lurking beast of prey, and he does it subtly enugh, thoughtfully enoough, to convince me he is no mere hireling.
With this, I don't mean that the book is cliché-free.
I loved Rebus's characterization almost in its entirety, but for once a well-rounded main character wasn't exactly strong enough to hold up the whole novel, for me.All in all, recommended.
I've seen Ian Rankin books all over airports, bookstores, libraries, best seller lists since I was first out of college and have never picked one up.
Probably for the same reason I never picked up a Lawrence Block book.
Big mistake, but now I have many more in the Detective John Rebus series left to read.
I like Rankin's style, very moody and somewhat dark, although other reviews I've read says he lightens up quite a bit in later novels.
If poor Rebus got any more depressed than he was here I'd be worried.
Will definitely be reading more of Mr. Rankin soon.
Compared to other popular crime fiction this might be a dark proposition but to me it just feels like Rankin was either holding back on the darkness or has simply written a book that can be classed as "Factory-light." It's not just Rebus that suffers in comparison, the supporting cast are barely worth a mention, cut from the flimsiest of cardboard and relying on cliche, when the story is told from their point of view I lost interest and it doesn't really add anything to the novel except a bigger word count.
I have been re-visiting the Rebus novels, this time starting at the very beginning and working my way through them mostly in the order that they were written. Prior to this, I’d read about a quarter of the books but I am reading those again because I know that I’ll enjoy them. My test of a good book is that it can be read and enjoyed more than once. This series passes that test; they are all five star books. I read for enjoyment and mostly confine myself to my favourite genres: fantasy, science
My test of a good book is that it can be read and enjoyed more than once.
I read for enjoyment and mostly confine myself to my favourite genres: fantasy, science fiction, horror, ghost stories and folk tales.
So here I am outside my favourite genres, reading crime books and trying to learn from them.
The Rebus books are a long series so I am interested in that also.
He also brings new characters into the books but still makes good use of existing favourites.
The author has also created a strong character; police detective John Rebus develops with the series.
At the same time he's a vulnerable person with weak points.
It's about the same time Rebus receives a strange letter with an even stranger object inside.
There's no rhyme or reason to it but as this killer continues his rampage another child goes missing and Rebus receives yet another letter.
She's working alongside Rebus on this case and becoming more involved in his personal life as the relationship builds.
Also in Rebus's life is his brother Michael.
Something is troubling this very affluent baby brother but the truth may tear them apart or bring them closer than ever.All I can say about this book is WOW!
Wonderful to go back and discover the beginnings of John Rebus. I was incredibly impressed with Ian Rankin's writings, particularly given that he was only 25 years old when he wrote Knots and Crosses. The plotting is a little clumsy and Rankin has become much more sophisticated in this area. Here, he was learning. He became a master.
This was an uncomplicated, character-driven noir with a protagonist that I couldn't care less about.Perhaps the author's writing improves with later books but here I felt like I was being kept very much at arms length from the narrative.
When the plot's so simple (in one of the early chapters the killer becomes exasperated that Rebus hasn't identified him yet and we, the readers, can do nothing but nod and despondently shout 'yes, why haven't you?' as if our hero is PC Plod rather than a highly trained detective) it's essential that we should care about the characters.
I highly recommend it.Detective Sergeant John Rebus works in Edinburgh, Scotland with a love/hate obsession for his job with the police.
But one thing he still possesses - a sense of needing to rescue those made victims.Things haven't been good for John Rebus since his SAS days - he had joined to prove his worth to his unloving, indifferent father who did love his other son, Michael, much more than John.
Rhona, John's ex-wife, finally done with John after trying to compete with his police career of fifteen years, which he had begun after resigning from the SAS, has left their marriage, taking their daughter, 12-year-old Samantha, with her.
The first problem with this book is the unlikable main character.
I don't need (or want) to learn those details which don't add to the story-line and certainly don't help make Rebus a more likable or even more sympathetic character.
In addition to an unlikable main character, the supporting characters - coworkers, family and victims - were woefully underdeveloped.
It was very frustrating to learn the identity of the serial killer when you realize Rebus should have figured it out much sooner and been able to save more victims - if not for his pesky PTSD.
I found this to be disappointing fare.
Rebus, the character was likeable, and the location (which, for the most part for me is right next door) was good and realistic.
Pacing was good, story was ok.
My problem with this is the fact that Rebus doesn't seem to be that great a cop.
There was a lack of 'cop work' within this book also.
Rebus could've easily been a random member of the public and it wouldn't have made a difference to the plot.
Compared to the high standard of Connelly and Baldacci, this was a bit mediocre.
Not bad but the later books in the series are much better. Still you can see the potential. :)
şöyle hızlı hızlı okunacak polisiyeyi özlemişim... rebus serisinin dizisini izlemiştim, iskoçya'da geçmesi, fazla karanlık olması hoşuma gitmişti. bu da galiba serinin ilk kitabı. ben bu edisyondan okumadım, alfa'da tekrar basılmaya başlandı, umarım bu kez doğru düzgün ilerler, bir iki kitabı basıp ortada bırakmazlar seriyi. içkiye düşkün, sorunlu, dağınık, boşanmış erkek polis ya da dedektif tiplemesine alışkınız zaten, rebus üstüne bir de dindar :)

It’s almost impossible because of the way the plot is structured to say anything meaningful about the story without the rusk of giving away any spoilers.
All I’ll say is that Rebus is an ex-army guy now a cop who finds himself involved in the investigation of the kidnapping/murders of several girls in Edinburgh.
It’s one of those crime novels that focuses in the detective more than on the crime, which I kind of like.
Rankin makes great use of Edinburgh as a setting.
I recommend this one if you like fairly gritty crime stories that focus on character.
Who doesn’t like a main character whose father and brother are legitimate magicians while he’s a hardened cop with the dysfunctional family and divorce to prove it.Inspector Rebus became a cop after a disgraceful exit from the SIS.
Not everyone can come up with a story worth reading and when cardboard characters clutter it … well, it’s a shame.
You either like him or you don’t but I don’t think he was a good match for Rankin’s work.
I will probably give the second book a chance based on Rankin’s core story but if I do I will read it rather than listen to it.
In this the first of the series we are introduced to Detective Sergeant John Rebus of Edinburgh C.I.D. who is a complex character to say the least.
I enjoyed the other characters that inhabit Rebus's world but I did think that journalist Jim Stevens theories were a bit far fetched at times and not really based on the evidence that he discovered.This copy of the novel had an introduction by Ian Rankin himself who explains his thinking at the time of writing this novel and I found that and also the extra material at the end of the novel to be very interesting and piqued my interest to delve further into this series.
Aún tenía pendiente la primera entrega de John Rebus, publicada en 1987, y eso que va ya por la número 21 hasta la fecha.
Te da una idea general del personaje, de su traumática experiencia militar, y de su desordenada vida social.
No me ha defraudado en absoluto esta primera entrega.
Al contrario, ha llenado algunos huecos personales que no tenía del todo claros, y lo hace con una trama absorbente, muy bien narrada y concluida.
El Edimburgo que nos muestra Rebus no es la ciudad turística y acogedora a la que estamos acostumbrados, y eso denota que conoce el terreno por el que se mueve.
"Knots and Crosses" are scraps of string and broken matchsticks in anonymous crank messages to Edinburgh detective John Rebus during a serial kidnapping of girls around 12, his daughter's age.
Constantly overcome by memories of elite corps army training, he smokes, drinks, and sleeps around like a 70s divorced lonely dad, until his brother finally hypnotizes him to reveal his bitter past hiding the murderer.
Either I read this before or the suspense builds with our growing suspicions.
I almost taste the ash, breathe the haze, burp the alcohol, and feel sorry for the hardworking son of Job. Not a pleasant story, but very well done.
Knots and Crosses is the first of Ian Rankin's Inspector Rebus novels.
Despite some contrivances and convenient plot devices, it's a fine novel.
Rebus is a fascinating character and one gets the feeling in reading this novel (published in 1987) that the author probably was planning a series based on this character.
It has much more going for it, namely, the complex character of John Rebus.
The writing demonstrates flashes of intense beauty and lyricism, and I intend to read more of Mr. Rankin's Rebus novels in the future.
A well deserved four-and-one-half stars for this character-based novel.
He begins to get envelopes in the mail – sometimes sent through the post, sometimes just slipped into his mail slot – that contain short notes that don’t make any sense to him, along with a piece of string that is tied into a knot.
The killer is obviously targeting Rebus, not just him, but his family, too.
It is only when Rebus is taken back to his days in the SAS that a connection is made that will allow him to find the killer and, at the same time, keep his family from harm.
