https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75494.The_Complete_Poems
No one can read all of Crane's poetry, across sixty years as I have, [Oh, God] and miss the accents of the Sublime, of the Nietzschean quest for the foremost place.[I'm about gonna die here...] Since Crane is, in his unchurched way, a great religious poet, a Shelleyan myth-maker hymning an Alien God, the tonalities of transcendence [just shoot me] haunt The Bridge and "The Broken Tower," and even the erotic raptures and anguishes of "For the Marriage of Faustus and Helen" and the "Voyages."There's another beauty but I can't bring myself to type it up.
"This fabulous shadow only the sea keeps."It seems to me that Hart Crane got the shaft during his lifetime and spent much of his time trying to become published, although that slowly changed.
After spending considerable time immersed in Crane's poetry, I think I would have to agree.
Revisiting Hart Crane was an entirely different and memorable experience.
High in the azure steepsMonody shall not wake the mariner.This fabulous shadow only the sea keeps.

Still one of the most heart-rending, haunting and baffling poets of the last 100 years. Someone who inspires almost despite his many quirks and obscurities. Beautiful to a point where it was definitely unhealthy, incurable and contagious.Oddly, this is the poet Harold Bloom confessed was his own personal favorite.
Hart Crane's brilliant poetry continues in the tradition of Eliot's 'The Wasteland,' in that he is interested in exploring the modern American landscape.
Crane's poetry pulsates with his passion and tragedy.
His work is tremendous achievement in terms of its visual beauty and lyrical flow:"Often beneath the wave, wide from this ledgeThe dice of drowned men's bones he saw bequeathAn embassy.
Their numbers as he watched,Beat on the dusty shore and were obscured.And wrecks passed without sound of bells,The calyx of death's bounty giving backA scattered chapter, livid hieroglyph,The portent wound in corridors of shells."Hart Crane lived a tragically short life.
Fortunately his remarkable work remains.
Man overboard! That must have been some-thing rascally deranged indeed. Was it prefigured or/and put in-to motion lead by years of reference? Séance says.. too/2 unpublished frags. for quoth ("aid (used only in first and third person singular before the subject): "“Well, the tide is going out” quoth the sailor"""WELL/WELL/NOT-AT-ALLYakka-hoola-hikki-doolaPico-della-miran-dohhh-laleonarda-della-itchy-vincies braust ein Ruf wie DONNERHALLpffffff ! " " YOU ARE THAT FRAILYou are that frail decision that devisedTheir lowest common multiple of human need,And on that bleak assumption risked the prizeForgetfulness of all you bait for greed... "
ChaplinesqueWe make our meek adjustments,Contented with such random consolationsAs the wind deposits
Crane may very well be poetry's last great romantic.
Though certainly influenced by Eliot's advances in form, he rejected that poet's despair in favor of a grander, more mythic, and ultimately more affirmative vision of the world.
(Ironic then, that he would die young by his own hand, while Eliot lived to be much older...).
Crane's poetry is dense, soaked in language, shot through with a burning eroticism, and goverened by what he called "the logic of metaphor." Often enigmatic, labyrinthian or just plain opaque, his poetry is well worth the effort one may need to put in to appreciate it fully.
And as with any great work of art, one can discover something new with every repeated reading.
I'm not going to rate this one because I feel like I need more time with Hart Crane. I don't know exactly why, but I just can't find passage, as a reader, into his poems. "Voyages" was lovely and parts of "The Bridge" floored me, but ultimately, I read him and reread him and feel like I'm being locked out of a very fine house.
At Mellville's Tomb:Often beneath the wave, wide from this ledgeThe dice of drowned men's bones he saw bequeathAn embassy. Their numbers as he watched,Beat on the dusty shore and were obscured.And wrecks passed without sound of bells,The calyx of death's bounty giving backA scattered chapter, livid hieroglyph,The portent wound in corridors of shells.Then in the crimson calm of one vast coil,Its lashings charmed and malice reconciled,Frosted eyes there were that lifted altars;And silent answers crept across the stars.Compass, quadrant and sextant contriveNo farther tides...High in the azure steepsMonody shall not wake the mariner.This fabulous shadow only the sea keeps.
"...The bell-rope that gathers God at dawn/Dispatches me..." Thus starts Crane's "The Broken Tower", which, along with "Voyages", is the most affecting poem to have ever crossed my eyes.
What I can say about Crane?
He was a brilliant, over-zealous, outrageous, irresponsible, ground-shaking poet, someone who you feel like you can actually live your life through and never have to leave your room.
While one must read the "Bridge" (especially "Ode to the Brooklyn Bridge"), it is a rather inconsistent set of poems.
I actually like "White Buildings" more, especially "Repose of Rivers", "Lachrymae Christi", "At Meville's Tomb", and the above mentioned "Voyages".
To Brooklyn Bridge'A sweeping dithyramb in which the Bridge becomes the symbol of consciousness spanning time and space '---Crane to Otto Kahn, March 18, 1926'And Thee, across the harbor, silver pacedAs though the sun took step of thee yet leftSome motion ever unspent in thy stride,—Implicitly thy freedom staying thee!....Again the traffic lights that skim thy swiftUnfractioned idiom, immaculate sigh of stars,Beading thy path—condense eternity:And we have seen night lifted in thine arms.Under thy shadow by the piers I waitedOnly in darkness is thy shadow clear.The City’s fiery parcels all undone,Already snow submerges an iron year ..."
One star less for including the fragments, which make this project seem more like an attempt to mythologise or canonise Crane--the tendency is particularly strong for geniuses who died young. He is very very good, but not every word he ever wrote deserves to be anthologised, and if I were him I would be upset that unfinished words should see the light of day. But then again, that's just me.
I found that I wasn't able to connect with Crane's style; it seemed like a 1920s/1930s voice wishing he were in the previous century. However, his overall ability is undeniable--especially his rhyming couplets and the occasional capturing of authentic voices from NYC streets and sailor's bars--and his persona remains historically important to American poetry.
I don't know, Hart Crane I just don't get the appeal of. He's a bit too romantic for my tastes. Occasionally he has a good turn of phrase or an appealing line, but the work is too much for the reward to be worth it.
"The Bell Tower" blows my mind.
I desperately want to love Crane - and I kind of do - but I never find myself saying: "I want to read another Hart Crane poem." Is he interesting and worth reading? YES. Do I wish to read it all again? No.
Amazing work, incredible set of poems - based entirely on the fact that I barely understood a word.
He tried to be great, and the story of his work is that despite his great ambition he failed at it.
The Bridge is his great (and failed) work.
I will say, though, that the other modernist epics are just as bad.
As to Pound's Cantos, I can understand that academics love them--after all, they are so obscure that a thousand dissertations can be written about them, and thus the academic marketplace thrives.
Crane at his best, to my taste, is better than Pound at his best and better than Williams in Paterson.
Luckily, Williams wrote many brilliant poems outside of his failed epic!

hart crane is great. a deep american mystery. a mixture of whitman and eliot with a bit of the luscious hyperbole of dylan thomas? yes, please.one gripe...even if it is "the complete poems", i felt a little guilty reading poems that the compilers even admitted were unpublished or unfinished. i know crane died young, but if they are unpublished and unfinished, they are probably as such for a reason...he didn't feel comfortable sharing them with the reading public...at any rate, basically great.
this is first time I am doing this what is this talking a machine as if anyone ohter than the machine is listening its all about machines and their talking I think thats why it is viewed as so obscure and hard to read you have to imagine the clang and clatter and all attendant noises of the early 20thcentury when was the brooklyn bridge built and what does it mean sort of things but I think what he was doing was hearing the sounds of machines.
Dark, strange, perplexing and mysterious. Most of the poems are almost great—but not quite. Many consider Crane a failed poet. Yet, there are some profound thoughts and stunning imagery to be found in his quirky view of the world. I consider him a challenge and respite from many 20th Century poets. Not everything has to be profound.A man said to the universe:“Sir I exist!”“However,” replied the universe,“The fact has not created in meA sense of obligation.”
I've had this sitting around for over a year and was excited to finally read it, since all the hullaballoo. I didn't find Crane a very interesting poet. He's often described as "difficult" and whatnot, but I just don't think he's got it. I realize I'm probably in a stark minority in the world of poetry aficionados, but, there you have it.
I'm in love with his language, the musical graces of these pieces, but must admit, without careful study, a study that I'm just not going to get into, the underlying meanings of many of these poems slip from my grasp. That said, I still "really like it."
damned if the introductory essay by Unterecker (biographer)doesn't just about wreck the day of whomever reads it... I'm a sucker for "a burnt match" of The Tunnel. Here is a book for all punishment gluttons with a Modernist bend.
Struggled with this one for a while, especially "For the Marriage of Faustus and Helen" and "Quaker Hill," until I gave up and let the effects wash over me. He must be saying something deeply personal and so I would not recognize it. Perhaps I'll recognize it later on.
Harold Bloom's introduction may be the biggest load of wank I've ever been forced to swim through. On the far side of it lie a bunch of fairly interesting poems which I do not understand at all. I like it, I guess. It just seems a bit stiff.
eh. i liked hart crane best when he breaks out of his own mold. it seems like he could have been an interesting poet, instead he's a famous suicide. some nice lines or nice images, but there wasn't any one poem that hit me all the way through. parts of "voyages" were nice.
Brilliant!
