https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3575676-night-world-no-3
I think I now understand better why so many L.J. Smith's fans crave the last, 10th, installment of the Night World series - Strange Fate - to be finally published.
Throughout this series of paranormal romances Smith has created a fascinating supernatural world and gradually built up to a great end-of-the-world showdown destined to happen in the final chapter of the story.This collection of 3 romances is of the same quality as two previous Night World tomes.
Night World books are basically better than 95% of paranormal YA fiction I've read these past few years.I am now going to wait for Strange Fate too, but seeing that L.J. Smith produced new Vampire Diaries of atrocious quality, maybe I shouldn't.
It was so awesome, and I loved the relation ship between Jez and Morgeard.
I liked everything about this story, and I didn't want it to end.Black Dawn: Another very good story.
I liked Delos, but I was constantly thinking 'You know you love her, so stop denying it!' It got me so frustrated.
But other than that, I liked the story.
I found it very interesting and enjoyable.Witchlight: I liked this story, though I found the end very confusing.
:)--Overall, I really liked this book.
I think this book is probably my favourite collection in the series.
(Everybody mashes up all their favorite characters and tropes into a personal fantasy playground when they're sixteen, right?
Guys?) It has a secret history of the world, in which there is a Night World of witches, vampires, and shapeshifters, who are now trying to bring on the apocalypse, opposed only by an idealistic group of humans, witches, vampires, and shapeshifters with a nifty cool name (Circle Daybreak), and also there are soulmate bonds, reincarnation, and, lately, dragons.
Sadly I am not as keen on soulmate bonds now as I was when I was sixteen, but L.J. Smith still is.
The reader is brought into her world to feel every single ounce of emotion and pain and suffering as she does.
When Circle Daybreak orders the best of the best, Keller and her crew of a witch and a vampire, and later another surprising accompanist, she takes on the full body guard act.
How will she be able to push aside such a strong, undeniable gift from the Old Powers in order to stop the end of the world?
Night World No.3 will take you on numerous gore-filled adventures and take you through a few lusty times, and every minute is action-packed and good to go!
Four Wild Powers with unsurpassed powers are destined to save the world from darkness, but without them, the human race could become extinct--something many vampires would love to see.
But she must face her old gang again when it is believed that their new leader and her oldest enemy has discovered a Wild Power.
Each story is intense, action-packed, and highly unique, complete with its own set of characters and problems, but all focused on the same goal: finding the Wild Powers to prevent the end of the world, and unite every living being.
Read more bookish goodness on my book blog: Cal's YA Reads1.5/5 stars. Summary: wow this sucksthey all suckI read this bc it's one of the last things on my shelf that I haven't read and I've read the other 2 packages. This is the worst in the trilogy. Book 1: 1 star. Book 2: 2 stars. Book 3: 2.5 stars. If anybody wants my copy, I'll gleefully give it away. Waste of time :/ Same plot; different names. Predictable, unnecessary. Such a shame.Me:
But when Keller falls in love with the Wild Power's soulmate, her love could destroy everything...Review:It’s been a while since I’ve read the other two collection books from this series.
Finally, with A Circle Daybreak, it sort of mixes things up, making you think about things a little differently, especially with new characters coming into the mix, and things like ancient beings such as dragons.
Circle Daybreak, I didn’t exactly know who the wild power was from the get-go like I did with the others, and it intrigued me even more.
From the first line till the end of the Story.
:D The ending was good.
But I like bad characters...so I didn't enjoyed him that much.
Other Characters were good.Iliana, Nissa etc!
I liked the parts when Jamie was the dragon and Iliana was having the wild Power even though I thought In the end Keller would have.I will give 4/5 stars =]Overall the book was good!
I really Liked Huntress out of all the stories.
But at some points I was really irritated (by the other stories and scenes).I liked Night world 2 which was thousand times better than this book.
Circle Daybreak is controlled THIERRY and HANNAH In the first book JEZ a vampire gang leader finds out she is a half vampire then she leaves the gang and kills her kinds.But when an Old Soul,Hugh asks her to go on the mission to find a wild power in san franisco she reunites with her old gang to help find the wild power.
When I found the Night World Volumes 1, 2 and 3 I became openly skeptical, a little unexcited(due to the surplus of unintelligent Young Adult Vampire novels as of oh so very recently, thanks Twilight!) but still couldn't ignore the fact that I was without a doubt going to read them.
Volume 3 had me up in arms over 'Huntress', about Jez Redfern the only half human, half vampire in the entire night world!
I love how Delos have yellow eyes and that he's a Wild Power, so as Iliana and Jez. So what was that prophecy?One from the land of kings long forgotten (?)One from the hearth which still holds the sparkOne from the Day World where two eyes are watching (?)One from the Twilight with one from the dark (?)I think it's like that.
And did I mention how I love L.J Smith take characters from a different title of the Night World series to help the characters we are currently reading?
Ok, so there are three stories in one book.
The second story, Black Dawn, was beyond great!
Ok so the main character, Maggie, finds out that her brother is dead.
But story just doesn't make sense.
And then eventually she ends up in a hidden kindom that Night people rule, and she's off to be a slave.
And she soon discovers her soulmate happend to be the Kingdom's prince and the wild power.
GREAT story!
Then the last story, Witchlight was ok.
It was my least favorite of all the books, but it was still really good.
Night World, No. 3 Huntress Rating: ★★★★☆Plot Synopsis: Jez Redfern is leader of the Night World vampires, but had an instinct to protect innocent mortals from her former friends... Can She resist her desire for blood?Summary: I thoroughly enjoyed Huntress: it was filled with interesting characters, and I liked Jez, in particular; and it had its fair share of twists. Overall, it's one of my favourites from the series, along with Secret Vampire and Spellbinder. Black Dawn Rating: ★★★☆☆Plot Synops
Rating: ★★★★☆Plot Synopsis: Jez Redfern is leader of the Night World vampires, but had an instinct to protect innocent mortals from her former friends...
Rating: ★★★☆☆Plot Synopsis: Maggie's brother, Miles, goes missing.
But while Delos lives, Miles could be lost forever.Summary: Black Dawn had some twists, and there were plenty of fast-paced, suspense-y moments; I also enjoyed seeing Maggie grow as a character, showing her strengths, showing that she could be just as bad-ass as the other girls in this series.
Rating: ★★★★☆Plot Synopsis: And Circle Daybreak hires Keller, a shapeshifting panther, to guard a new Wild power….
I love how this series progresses. The plot thickens and more characters find their soulmates. Huntress is one of my favorite stories of this series. Jezabel Redfern is an awesome character and I really enjoyed her story.
I think it might be my favourite of her series? Maybe? It's got shape-shifters! There need to be more shape-shifter books! Really looking forward to the last book.
A great anthology of stories set in the same world! A must for any supernatural romance lover! The stories cross paths from time-to-time, as well.
Guess now I'm stuck waiting with everyone else for the conclusion that will never come
Everyone seems to believe her except Maggie and then she follows Sylvia only to make herself a slave to the Dark Kingdom where Delos Redfern rules and is the prince and where she is in a prophecy the witches have digged indicating she was going to free the slaves.
it seems like the answer is no.Witchlight: Raksha Keller is a shape-shifting panther known as Keller and her team-mates Nissa Johnson and Winfrith Arlen are the best Circle Daybreak team and their latest assignment is to get and protect the fragile silver haired and dizzy looking girl called Ilianna Harman from the Night World since she is the 3rd wildpower and the Witch Child.
I loved her interpretation of the supernatural characters included in this book because everyone has their own view on what a vampire is and what they look like.
All in all, I recommend this book to the appropriate ages and to anyone who loves an action packed romance!Review Book 8 - Black DawnMaggie follows the clues leading towards her brother's disappearance, which introduces her to the terrifying Night World along with the beautiful, mysterious prince, Delos.
In conclusion, I recommend this book to readers who enjoy a suspenseful and action packed book.
Paranormal creatures such as vampires, shapeshifters, and witches will either work together to stop the darkness, or fight to win the battle at the end of the world.
First off all, the books contained in this volume are all fairly short, easy reads, so if you're looking for a lighter paranormal read, this series is great.
In the first story, Huntress, the main character is a vampire who hunts down humans and sees them as less worthy than the Night People.
Maybe I'm looking too far into this but....I really liked this deeper connection.I loved that each story features different main characters.
As usual I pick up the series in the middle of it.
This book surprised me how much I had enjoyed it.
I know i shouldnt compare it to the vampire diaries I didnt even realize it was the same author!
I had tried to read two books of the vampire diaries because I enjoyed the show.
I just couldn't get into the vampire diaries the books.
That being said I loved the Huntress!
It was a great surprise.
Jez is a great character and its easy to fall into this world.
Im thrilled I found a new series to love.
I highly enjoyed this one!
Huntress - The Blue Fire is the most amazing thing ever!
I liked the way her attitude changed when she found out about her human background.
At first I didn't particularly like Morgead but when she went back to the pack I understood him and it was great ...
I did NOT like Sylvia ...
until the end of course because she died lol.
and his eyes were AMAZING!
*day dream* green golden eyes**.The ending of the series was suitable ...
and if so, I just would've liked to see the action lol.
The 2nd book, Black Dawn, leads to a hidden valley filled with evil vampires, shapeshifters and human slaves.
Maggie meets escaping slaves, Jeanne, Aradia and JP.
They sneak into the castle to have a slave healer, Laundress heal Aradia.The discover Delos is a Wild Power.
Hunter Redfern usurps the prince and is ready to kill them all when the witch Sylvia removes the spell giving Delos back his power.
The 3rd book, Witchlight, starts with the hunt for a 3rd Wild Power.
Five stars for ALL OF THE CHARACTER IN THIS THREE BOOKS. First we have Jez, badass character, allbeauty vampirism, in a gang (view spoiler)[ with her not yet known soulmate Morgead. After finding out she is half vampire half human, she decides to go back to her human roots and be completely one of them, but when she hears Morgead has a clue to one of the Wild Powers who are to save the world, she has to go back and kick some butt again! (hide spoiler)] Next book, well I just love the Middle Ages
Anyways, Maggie, our main character in this story, (view spoiler)[ is the savior to all of the human slaves being used as meals and help, but darn theres a small problem, her soulmate is no other than the prince of the castle, who just so happens to be a  Wild Power as well!!
Talk about complicated  (hide spoiler)] Ninth book, Keller, orphaned shapeshifter girl is the personal bodyguard of out third Wild Power, yet there is a teeny tiny problem.
(view spoiler)[ The guy this third Wild Power is supposed to marry is in reality Keller's soulmate.
Night World isn’t a place so much as it is a group of people who live among humans in secret.
We the humans are not just the enemy but we are food as well and definitely looked down upon.
However, at the heart of each story there is one person in Night World and one person in the human world that become bonded, soul mates.
I like how this author put that all down in these books, the idea that it shouldn’t matter if a person is a vampire or werewolf or a human or a witch.
LJ is just amazing in that way because she literally weaves her own universe that's completely unique to her books but it's not mistakable with any other books, though it's not too far off base from the real world that we live in.All three novels in this book focus around one of four Wild Powers.
It give them another layer to the story making them less repetitive but still with that love story vibe to them.Overall the whole series so far is great if you don't really watch the details of the writing as much as you just read to enjoy.
fucking nostalgia attack right now
Huntress: Jez was such an awesome character in this book, she's soo friggin cool and she's one of teh Wild Power.
Morgead just sounds like one hawwt vampire whose in love.
Jez thought tht Morgaed hated her when he loved her to bits.Black Dawn: Maggie is an awesome chic who is strong willed [but sometimes tht pissed me off:] and loves her brother.
[awww:]Witchlight: Keller is like a really strong chic without love in her life.
Galen is one hawwt prince like Prince of the First House [Prince of the Shapeshifter:] I love his curly blonder hair.
However, I will say that I finally got to the last book (because I've noticed reviewing this includes the last few books), and I've been disappointed that it's been leading up to this big battle and I got into the series years after it was published and people were still waiting for Book 10 for a couple years.
It's still not out from what I understand so it's disappointing that it has potential to be a great series but it's still incomplete and I believe that people have been waiting almost ten years for the final book to come out.
But I really do wonder if she is obsessed with vampires or something.
No offense, but her vampire novels are much better than Twilight.
My fav character from Huntress was Claire.
Then everything changes when she listens in on Jez's conversation with Hugh.
Fav character from Black Dawn was Delos.
He is kind of similar to the characters Ash and Quinn.
They go from heartless to changing and finally deserving a soulmate.
He also protected her when she didn't listen to him by throwing her in the dungeons.
Finally, Witchlight.
Witchlight was absolutely fantab.
My fav character from the one was Keller.
