https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40718726-genghis-khan-and-the-making-of-the-modern-world
Genghis Khan and his Mongol Horde were good news for the world. Really. Not convinced? Consider the following:1. Genghis Khan was an advocate of human rights, specifically freedom of religion, freedom from torture and free trade (he got two of the Four Freedoms right, which is pretty impressive by medieval standards, especially when they still, like, burned heretics and unbelievers in Europe and elsewhere). GK forbade the use of torture in trials and as punishment. He also granted religious free
Genghis Khan was an advocate of human rights, specifically freedom of religion, freedom from torture and free trade (he got two of the Four Freedoms right, which is pretty impressive by medieval standards, especially when they still, like, burned heretics and unbelievers in Europe and elsewhere).
And since Mongol men in the time of GK went really far away to conquer distant nations and did not return for years, the wives and daughters were the real boss at home (and also at the various Mongol courts, when many of GK’s male descendants turned out to be drunken incompetents).
This is a very well researched account that explores the sheer domination of Genghis Khan and the Mongol Empire of 1000 years ago.This book does in my opinion however tend to learn towards painting a more favourable picture of how great the Mongols were and the positive aspects of their reign and this is extremely interesting too as they are believed to be responsible for the making of the modern world with the introduction of paper currency, improvements lin trade and agriculture and the tolerance of allowing their subjects to practice different religions as long as they prayed for the ruling families.While I enjoyed this book I do highly recommend Dan Carlin and his Wrath of the Khans podcast for its meticulous research but above all the way he brings history to life in a manner I have never encountered before and encourages the listener to think outside the box.
It explains in a clear and comprehensible manner how the world we live in today has been improved by Mongol practices.
The author is a cultural anthropologist and historian.The book begins with a discussion about the life of Genghis Khan (1162-1227), follows his successors, offering detailed information both about Kublai Khan and powerful women of the clan, discussing the formation of the Mongol nation in 1206, the squabbling that arose between the successive leaders and concludes with a convincing analysis of how the Mongol Empire has influenced today’s world.
This gets two stars instead of one because it's very well written. Factually, however, it's abysmal.If you want a light, easy and entertaining read, you won't be disappointed. If you'd like to learn about Mongolian history however, I can only urge you not to read this book. A better bet would be the eminently more reliable, but still readable  The Mongols  by David Morgan.It suffers from many of the faults common to revisionist history - starting out with a good point but over-exaggerating to th
Factually, however, it's abysmal.If you want a light, easy and entertaining read, you won't be disappointed.
If you'd like to learn about Mongolian history however, I can only urge you not to read this book.
by David Morgan.It suffers from many of the faults common to revisionist history - starting out with a good point but over-exaggerating to the point of wilful ignorance of available evidence.
By the same token, Jack Weatherford is not a historian.Edit: I'm taking away one of the stars: its factual innacuracies are dangerous and should outweigh any entertainment value that the book has.
This might be my favorite book of all time. It's as fascinating as a history book or biography can get while also being a terrific read. From the first page, you are immersed in understanding how an illiterate steppe warrior became ruler of an empire larger than Africa. Perhaps most enticing to me are the ways in which the survival strategies of steppe nomads influenced the ethics of rulership and the cunning development of military tactics. I recommend this book to anyone with a sense of curiosity, whether you typically enjoy reading history or not.
This universalist and pragmatic approach certainly generated qualities that we find in today's modern world: religious tolerance, secular governance, emphasis on technological achievement, paper money, state support of long distance trade, etc.
Because of their universalist outlook and light (for the times) footprint on their conquered populations the Mongol Empire left little in the way of lasting cultural achievements.
Instead, approach it as a really good, if broad, examination of how the Mongolian Empire came to be, was sustained, and ultimately shattered.
In that light it is a good gateway book to deeper dives into the fascinating and unique Mongolian Empire.
"Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World" by Jack Weatherford is both an account of the life and empire of Genghis Khan (1162-1227) and, unfortunately, a series of unsubstantiated claims about the empire's positive contributions to the world.
Since I know little about Asian history, I can only assume that the first part of the book is a fairly conventional account of the life and conquests of Genghis Kahn.
I'm giving it two out of five stars rather than one star because I assume it provides the conventional account of Genghis Kahn and the Mongol Empire.
This is a pretty radical book, and like most revisionist history it goes a little bit overboard with it's thesis: Genghis Khan wasn't a bloodthirsty barbarian, he was the greatest civilizing influence the world has ever seen, bringing peace of rule of law wherever he went!In addition to the amazing personal details presented about Genghis Khan and his early life as an outcast from one of the most obscure fringe nomadic tribes of Mongolia to, well, King of the World, the book does make a fascinating and convincing case for how the Mongols were able to break past entrenched and provincial ways of thinking to create a world view.
Also how they made their massive empire a meritocracy.
Not that I really want to know the gory details, but what's a detailed biography of Genghis Khan without talking about the gore?
I enjoyed this book by Weatherford on the incredible Genghis Khan.
There was one fascinating episode where a group of Islamic heretical extremists called the Assassins (in fact the English word "assassin" takes its origin from this group) were running rampant in Persia killing anyone who opposed their reading of the Qu'ran (sound familiar?).
Another fascinating aspect was that it was thanks to Khan that the plague reached Europe.
(This is an interesting side-note and could lead the reader of this review to also read Jared Diamond's Guns, Germs and Steel which also discusses this phenomenon and which I reviewed on GR elsewhere.)Highly readable and fascinating, I highly recommend this book to those who are interested in how events of the 14th C in Asia had an impact on subsequent history.
Weatherford is clearly enamored with his subject as he lauds Genghis Khan’s resourcefulness while treating his mass killings and wholesale destruction matter-of-factly.Genghis Khan forever changed the world.
In 1206 he adopted the name Genghis Khan, ruling a group of tribes that would be known as the Mongols.
Mongke, the last of the Great Khans, authorized two campaigns, one against the Moslem strongholds in the Middle East and the other against the Sung dynasty.
The Mongol trade links that connected China, India, the Middle East and Europe facilitated the infusion of new goods and ideas.
I listened to this audiobook last night, and I found it to be pretty interesting and humanizing to a person that is usually given a pretty bad rap in high school history classes.
I also think that this author tends to try to modernize Genghis a bit...
He portrays him as someone who, because of an early life betrayal by extended family, went against the social and cultural norms of his period and instead of putting all weight and meaning behind family, he instead put that into those who supported him.
Weatherford portrays Genghis as a beneficent ruler...
To the Young Mongols:Never forget the Mongolian scholarswho were willing to sacrifice their lives to preserve your history.Энэ ном надад их таалагдсан.
Монголчуудын ахуй амьдралыг сайн дүрсэлсэн, үйл явдлуудыг олон талаас тайлбарласан, ер нь бодит байдалтай их л дөхөм юм шиг санагдав.
Бас бидний олж хардаггүй зүйлсийг өөр өнцөгөөс харж бичсэн байсан.
Бүх хүмүүст уншихыг зөвлөж байна.
Уйтгартай түүхийн ном шиг санагдахгүй гэдгийг амлая (эхний 2 хэсэгт таны мэддэг юм гарах болохоор уйдаж магадгүй, гэвч тэдгээрийг чинь улам их мэдээллээр баяжуулж бичсэн байгаа).I gave 5 stars not because I'm mongolian but it WAS amazing.
I won't say biased things here.

They both respected women, they both were focused to destroy their enemies but not their families, they both cared for others...Jawaharlal Nehru wrote to his daughter Indira, who would herself grow up to become prime minister of India, it would be foolish not to recognize the greatness of Europe.
But it would be equally foolish to forget the greatness of Asia.Nehru depicted Genghis Khan as a part of an ancient struggle of Asian people against European domination.
He also concluded that Genghis Khan without doubt, the greatest military genius and leader in history.
Jack Weatherford is a cultural anthropologist whose speciality is tribal peoples.
He brings to this one on the Mongols a knowledge and understanding of tribal cultures -- that in fact is rare in historians.
I feel Weatherford can tell you things 'straight' historians can't, on the Mongols -- because of his areas of study.
She was a friend, and I didn't howl in her face).With this book Weatherford brought a sympathetic history on 'Genghis' and the Mongols to the bestseller lists, one that argues against our prejudices.
To give an example: I have low-starred David Morgan's book that is thought of as the standard history on the Mongols.
Weatherford even admits Genghis' Mongols made little contribution to civilization per se--what he claims for them is that they made the modern world because they were "unrivaled cultural carriers." As he put it:The Mongols made no technological breakthroughs, founded no new religions, wrote few books or dramas, and gave the world no new crops or methods of agriculture.
I'm skeptical frankly of anyone that claims any one reason for the reawakening of the West, or any one source whether a rediscovery of Greek and Roman antiquity, infusion of Islamic learning through the Crusades or Mongolians transmitting Chinese civilization Westward.
The latter is supposedly an English translation from the original text written in Mongolian in the 13th century about Genghis Khan's life by someone close to him, and contains mostly dialogues and descriptive passages.
Using that original document as a basis, Weatherford gives a far more coherent and illuminating account of all the life episodes set in historical context, while shedding light on the enormous proximate impact and far-reaching influence that this formidable leader's actions and, to a greater or lesser extent, those of his successors, had on human history.The simple flowing style of writing makes this book an easy read.
But when invading a kingdom, he would always keep the scholars and artists and artisans and priests alive and well, and he would gather its wealthy and noble people and say: "it is for YOUR sins that I am sent to your door.
Poor people has not role it it; YOU are the ones who brought the wrath of Gods unto your Kingdom; and here I am."Boy, was he right......more later, once I am done with this beautifully and engagingly written account of the life and deeds of the great warrior enchantingly narrated by Jonathan Davis and Jack Weatherford, the author himself.
That's very interesting, but doesn't exactly equip him to write a closely focused narrative history (in semi-novelistic fashion) about an individual regarding whom there's not much primary evidence.The first third deals with Jackie's..., I mean, Genghis' youth; the next third with his wars.
By the time he gets to the big picture (the results of the Mongolian Enlightenment, which cast its shining light from Beijing to the great Uzbek towns..., he claims), the author's lack of competence (as far as I could tell, he can't read the script) and overvaluation of his topic, didn't exactly inspire much confidence.
Better places for my time.That said, this is kind of neat -- courtesy of a friend.http://www.360cities.net/image/huheha...
This book was such an eye opener. I did lose little parts of it to traffic concentration. I have always been fascinated by Genghis Khan but this history goes from the 13th Crntury through to present times when GK'sgreat family continued to try and r ulster the Great Khan's methods and principles. Some expanded his legacy, others didn't do so well but all Momgols would have to be in awe of this man. Recommended to all who like to delve into our past in a scholarly way.
I never really studied this end of history beyond the military-conquering perspective and this book had a lot to add. Slow start but I'm glad I stuck it out. For what it's worth, I kept thinking of George Martin's Dothraki in Game of Thrones. Also, my balls hurt a little when I think about riding on a wooden saddle.
Staring up idly at the plumes of smoke rising from nearby Vesuvius, they may well have felt some queasiness about the future, but they were an elite, living at the center of the world's greatest power, and one of their most cherished privileges was the cultivation of the life of the mind.<<To put it starkly: slavery paid for "the life of the mind" and not only all of the scientific advances that came from it, but also the foundational values of Western society including, ironically, individual human dignity and rights.It's an uncomfortable story, but Genghis Khan's war with the settled peoples around him reinforces its inescapable verity.
(I audiobooked this so if I spell things wrong I'm sorry, I'm googling most of the names of people and places I know I don't know how to spell)This book starts out with some background on Temüjin's mother and how she was captured by a neighboring tribe which was rather customary in Steppe Culture.
It briefly touches on his childhood and his half siblings.It gets interesting when his own wife was captured by the same tribe his mother was from - in a form of revenge for stealing her away.Temüjin was part of a small clan at the time, and under most circumstances a husband would have counted his wife as lost to him forever with little he could do to bring her back.
Genghis Khan and his descendants unified Russia (Batu and the Golden Horde), China (Khubilai Khan), India (Mughals) and altered the dynamics in the Middle East (Ilkhanate dynasty).
Moreover, the Chinese claims over Arunachal Pradesh, Vietnam, Korea, Laos, Cambodia, Myanmar, Aksai Chin and many other territories are partly due to the unification of China under Khubilai Khan, the grandson of Genghis Khan – who established the Yuan dynasty.
That works out to nine executions per 100,000 population during the period, or an annual rate of .3 per 100,000 per year – almost 4 times that of the Mongol Empire.The United States executed 1,317 people during 1976-2012.
However, later in the audio book (part 2, chapter 5, time 12:49), when Weatherford wishes to illustrate the severity of the Black Plague (which contributed to the end of the Mongol Empire), he demonstrates a mastery of these same concepts, meaning, he gives statistically-accurate comparisons of mortality rates as a percentage of the total population of the Plague versus various occasions of modern-day slaughter and/or mass illness.
Гэтэл Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World гэдэг энэхүү номыг уншаад Монголын нууц товчоонд өгүүлсэн зарим үйл явдлуудын ач холбогдлыг ойлгож авсан төдийгүй дэлхийн түүхийн талаас олон зүйлсийг мэддэг боллоо.
Мөн Их монгол улс дэлхийн түүхэн хөгжилд ямар олон нөлөө үзүүлснийг гадарладаг боллоо.Би юу хэлэх гээд байна вэ гэвэл түүх бол түүх, зүгээр л бичигдсэн зүйл, харин түүхийг тайлбарлаж бичнэ гэдэг бол маш өөр зүйл бөгөөд түүнийг унших нь түүхийг уншихаас шал өөр мэдрэмж, ойлголтыг төрүүлдэг юм байна.
Энэ номыг уншаад би монголчууд бид түүхээ мэдэх бас л болоогүй байгаа юм байна гэдгийг ойлголоо.
A really great history - engagingly written and definitely opening up an area of history I knew nothing about.
It confirms my belief that for people morality is less important than if someone is on your "team." For Weatherford, Genghis Khan is team globalization, so the book is really a long-form apologia for mass murder and conquest.Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World is based on two pillars.
When Europeans do bad things, it is terrible (his passage on Louis IX is the book's low point) but when the Mongols torture people he usually says something like "they had it coming" or mentions it was just part of Mongol culture.
This book was fantastic! I found it randomly, and I wasn't sure what to expect. It has just the right amount of detail, and the history is balanced with great storytelling. I definitely recommend this for history buffs looking to branch out from the usual history of the western world.
I really didn't know much about Genghis Khan, which is why I wanted to read about him to fill in gaps in my knowledge of history.
There are details of Mongol life written up in a book called The Secret History, but anyone writing all those many years ago may have been biased, forgetful, etc.
I wish I had heard it first to put things in perspective, but it actually helped in tying up all the details of the book.
It seems like some religious fanaticism in Europe and ignorance about the Mongols may have initiated some of the persecution of Jews.
