https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462534.The_Three_Faces_Of_Eve
96:“The somber and historic zeal of Savonarola would have faded before the invincible levity of her smile.” Eye roll.Every other page there seems to be a Shakespearean reference, an allusion to Greek myth, some distorted political theory (i.e. confusing anarchy with chaos), Edna St.Vincent Millay or Keats - all only appropriate with a fairly large stretch of the imagination, and none adding anything that i could access.i found myself repeatedly thinking -> cut the crap and tell the story.i was reminded again of the absolute absurdity of Freudianism - EVERYTHING is sexual.
They really didn't know what they were dealing with when they took Ms. Sizemore (Eve) on as a patient.
They "discovered" what would be known as MPD - Multiple Personality Disorder and documented their work with Integrating their patient.
Of course this was later made into a briliiant movie starring Joanne Woodward.Of course, this was only the beginning journey for "Eve" who dissociated again and again over time, having as many as 33 personalities in all.
I have met Ms. Sizemore and she has had a very rough journey and chronicles it in her book: I'm Eve - in case anyone is interested in reading it.
I picked up this book because I'm studying MPD(multiple personality disorder) for my psychology course, but reading this didn't just help me with my studies but sated my curiosity about so many questions I had- and raised several more.
This is for those who are patient enough to go through every phase of this bizarre life of a woman who was troubled by several personalities, the most frequent of which were the wicked, naughty Eve Black and the humble, sane Jane.
There were controversies about the entire thing being a drama, acted out by the "troubled" woman but I don't believe that.
Snore. There are sections of this book that are rather interesting, but mostly, it's dull as dishwater. As for all the reviews talking about the awful abuse endured by the patient, I think these folks must have read a different book! The only abuse here is in subjecting readers to pages of Jungian castration theory vs Freudian Oedipal theory!
Unlike some earlier reviewers, I loved the literary references scattered throughout the text as well as the fairly rigorous medical description of her case.
Most of the difficult "inside psychiatry" data have been pushed to the end as appendixes, and - this is what surprised me - I was able to follow along with the fairly complicated analyses found here after having read the main text.
Some reviewers seemed confused by the Freudian references cited by the authors which, ironically, the authors dutifully submitted as data while explicitly disavowing the Freudian diagnosis; in other words, some reviewers wrongly critiqued the book, their criticism being right in line with the same sceptical viewpoint as expressed by the authors.
Eve White literally disappeared before the eyes of clinical psychiatrist Corbett Thigpen.
The pixie-like Eve Black had emerged.Eve Black had been buying flashy clothing and jewelry, taking over the body at night, and going out.
She was using her body and mind.Thigpen and Cleckley share her remarkable story in this book along with the story of a third Eve, Jane, who emerges over time.
Perhaps a product of the therapy, Jane manages to date a man and fall in love.Eve White's deep-seated and repressed fears and associations are explored in-depth along with here many struggles to cope at home and in the work place.
This was an old book I found on a dusty bookshelf in my parents office.
Loving psychology this was right up my alley.
I think even before reading I had read this case study in several undergrad textbooks.
3 Faces of Eve tells the true story of a woman who has 3 separate personalities and the hype created when this case was first analyzed by the medical world.
I see I have the same problem others had with this book.
Parts were very very interesting….and then a big drop of boredom.
It would be great if this got a little hacked and placed back together to something shorter.
It's hard to believe that a book about multiple personalities could be boring, but that's what it was to me. I read about two-thirds of it before I gave up for more engaging reads. Maybe I'll try again later.
Very interesting insight into the thought processes of people with Multiple Personality Disorder,an engaging read, I strongly recommend it.
I struggled to get through this one, taking a lot longer to finish than I typically do for a book this size. While I did enjoy the details of Eve's life and her journey in coping with and overcoming her illness, the book was very heavy in the psychology of her illness. It was very clearly written by psychologists. Students and professionals would probably enjoy those aspects of the book, but it tended to get very boring and drawn out for a layperson like me.
While I know it's hard to know how much of a book like this is true, it is an interesting narrative about a human being with multiple personalities facing the difficulties of parenting. It's an engaging read.
Very monotonous and I wish the ending was richer, Very cliche
Actually the movie did the best it could given the time frame it had, but I was completely mesmerized by the book and the account of Eve White, a woman with three personalities.
The book explains in detail how the doctors got to know each personality, their troubles and quirks, and through patience, diligence and understanding helped integrate them back into one person.
Although not as horribly traumatic as the Sybil story we've all heard of, Eve White's plight to help her selves become whole again is a fascinating read and one I could not put down.
I read a Reader's digest version. I thought I'd read it before, but apparently not. Eve went to the Doctor complaining of headaches and blackouts, when the Dr could find nothing physically wrong, he sent her to a psychologist, where a separate personality "came out" it was interesting to read how it happened and how she existed with 2 then 3 personalities, but it wasn't quite the story I was expecting. Since it wasn't written as a novel, or biography, but more like the therapists writing an article for a journal. I still found it interesting reading though.
I did not like this book because they never found out what caused her to shatter. The authors wrote about Freud's oedipal and embryonic intrauterine theories and wondered if this was what caused her to become multiple. I believe that her parents had something to do with it, even though the authors never discussed abuse nor did they seem to ever get too far into her memories. This book was one of the first case histories of multiple personalities and it is obvious the doctors did not know what they were doing.
Other books based on multi-personality... "The Bird's Nest" (by author of "The Lottery"); Sybil; the other "Eve" (should say SYBIL) books by the patient herself..As to "Three Faces of Eve" couldn't put this book down and read it at break, on the bus, and in bed WITH a flashlight... not because it was thrilling, but because I was so anxious to figure out the "why" of her problem.. was mystified in the end. But then I was only 17 when I read it..
I am so glad I finally got to read it. although it is not as passionate as I would have liked (one of the instances where the movie is better) it is a good read. there are lots of outdated theories and comments that glaringly point out that this is a 1950's book written by a man. it is also more geared to those who want more information about the mechanics of the psychology and the human aspect of it comes off more as a side note.
Greatful to have had the opportunity to read this book! Out of print and so hard to find I was estatic to get my hands on it. It was overall a very good book but the best parts were somewhere in the middle. At the end there was a BAM where things were resolved and then it turned into some olden-day's phy/clinician bullshit debating Oedipus and Morton-Prince. Dissapointing end to a historical work
I read this book years ago as a teenager and was riveted by its strange story. Years later, learning about the adverse effect on 'Eve' and her family of the book and the subsequent film, I was shocked. I think it should be left in obscurity.Here is her true life and the titles of her bookshttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chris_C...
This was a fascinating insight into the mind of someone with multiple personality disorder. I'm not sure how much it was sensationalized, but it was from the psychologist's perspective, and melded the language of professional psychology with a really engaging account of the patient. I thought it was great.
I went through a phase after I read Sybil where I became obsessed with cases of dual and multiple personalites. This was part deux of my two-part string of similar reads (given to me as a most thoughtful Christmas present).It was only a little dissapointing in light of the previous book on the subject. Still, extremely provoking.
With one parent in psychology one was bound to hear much about this story, depicting a true story about a woman with a fragmented persona, due to trauma of events of her childhood, and her miraculous seeming recovery after almost accidental clue to the root of the problem. It seemed so familiar even before reading, although perhaps I read Sybil before this.
I was obsessed with this book in high school, and had my sights set on a career in psychology because of it. I've since taken a completely different direction in life, but this book remains a fascinating remnant of my old life. Definitely an interesting read. Fantastic movie adaptation, as well.
An overall enjoyable and interesting read, although I did find that it lagged at times, especially in some of the later chapters in which the author first postulates and then questions various Freudian/Oedipal analyses of the patient.
It was interesting in parts, but it focused on a lot of psycho dynamic aspects as was common in the time it was written. it was less novel like then I expected but i would still like to see the movie.
I was just out of high school when I read this book. It opened my eyes to disabilities thatI never knew existed. I think in the day and time it was written - it was an excellent introduction to the subject.
Not really my kind of book, I think. It is sort of a-matter-of-fact type of writing where you have to make an effort to really read and understand.Interesting, though, was the case discussed; split personalities. Intellectual and a bit heavy.Well. Lots of other people might love it anyhow. :)
Hope the movie is better.Almost all case study,no story.I Love Psychology but this book was a bore.I will say it was a great case study just not what I had in mind to read.I ended up skimming a great deal after about halfway through.Best for research if enrolled in a college course.
This book rises from merely interesting to utterly fascinating when read in tandem with Eve's autobiography, "I'm Eve." The analysts' rather smug, self-congratulating, sexist view of Eve's problems and progress are invisible until you turn to the other book and "Eve" tells her own story.
I read this almost 20 years ago...this book started a series of thoughts and events which culminated in my becoming a therapist.
