https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8662574-the-dower-house-mystery
Four stars, with extra half star for Piggy's cat doodles. Rounded up to five.
Written in 1925, this was an engaging mystery. The daughter of the protagonist is pretty obnoxious and I don't know that I would have made the sacrifices her that her mother did.
Good, old-fashioned (as in Golden Age) thriller. No overt sex or violence, no substance-addled, unreliable narrator.
It's surprisingly hard to keep track and only by the very end was I starting to get a handle on which of the characters was which so the reveal of the criminals didn't have much of an impact as I barely recalled them.As with Footsteps in the Dark, the criminal plot required everything involved to be completely dense - and the behaviour of the heroes wasn't much better, hobbled by a ridiculous in story contract that was the only way the author could think of to avoid it being solved really easily I guess.
This was a good old fashioned mystery. I really enjoyed it.
Honestly, I think her earlier mysteries are better than the Miss Silver mysteries, much as I like those. I just wish someone would come out with this one as an ebook or a modern reprint. -- re-read this; as an ebook.
Early Bird Book Deal | Starts badly, does improve.
| When I first picked up this deal I didn't read it closely and thought it was another Miss Silver.
I realized the error before reading the first page, but the first two chapters did not dispose me positively toward the book, and I set it aside for quite some time.
Daphne was so awful, and so unworthy of her mother's sacrifice, that I just couldn't stomach reading either the character or anything that might bring her selfish, ungrateful heart joy.
Daphne doesn't appear after that second chapter, and Amabel is perfectly pleasant to read.
The Dower is s classic thriller from the 1920's , if you enjoy Agatha Christie, you will enjoy Patricia Wentworth's books, Amanda Grey is a widow, who agrees to live in the house for six moths, for this she will receive £200.00. Easy money Amanda thinks, that is until the strange happenings begin, noises in the night, doors opening on their own, Could the house be haunted, Amanda is certain, especially when her dog, runs away.  With the help of an old friend Juilan, they decide to investigate, but what will they find? A fun read that keeps you guessing,,
Enjoyable. Classic Patricia Wentworth. But it relied on people not recognizing a twin, which is always difficult to believe. And then, not even being able to figure out that the person they were seeing two of was a twin, despite knowing full well that a twin had gone missing. Ridiculous, but still a fun read.
English country mysteryThis was a very typical English mystery. A bit dated, but still readable , in a quite way. If you're in the mood for a bit of nostalgia, proper manners, and a cute story, this is your book. Maybe not Agatga Christi, but goid. Atmospheric. Be a h book. Liked it.
Instead of going to the next Bobby Owen mystery I decided to try another writer. Diversity is good but this story has a suspense component that makes me a little bit anxious. It's one of those books I have to see the ending so that I can go through the scary twists. Not a fan. The love story was cute.
A widow agrees to stay in a haunted house for 6 months in for 200 pounds. She is a sensible sort of woman, so she is not too concerned. Of course ghosts start the first night. Other neighbors support her and try and give her comfort and protection. The story is predictable, but a good mystery.
I like her Miss Silver mysteries better, but this was a good read. It was written in 1925, so you have to understand that to understand the book itself. Different times and expectations all around.
A good little book this one - bit of a ghost story which was fun. Moved along nicely and wasn't dull like the previous one I had read. Hope more come up at a reasonable price as would like to read more.
this is a super cozy and atmospheric mystery. Nothing to scare the most vulnerable among us. I am working my way through all by P Wentworth and this is my favorite so far. Great for plane or train or boat reading.
One of the Wentworth mysteries that has held up better over the years.
Written in 1925 and still in print, this crime novel with a splash of romance was a rousing reading romp, and one of 65 mysteries written by Patricia Wentworth, a contemporary of Agatha Christie.
This was good; no ghosts. I did figure it out well ahead of the end of the book; but, still an entertaining read. I always know what I am getting into with her mysteries, and that is a plus.
Fun light mystery. Page turner until the end.
Delicious mystery with gothic undertones and a nice romance thrown in, and the only ‘ghost’ story that I’ll read.
Great ghost story, better love story.
What starts out as a ghost story turns into an amateur sleuth detective mystery. Characterizations (especially of the women) are excellent, even though the plot is somewhat convoluted.
Classic Patricia, enjoyable, little substance.
A good choice for the Halloween season, in that it's a haunted house story that's really a mystery and it's nicely evocative without being very woo-woo scary. It reminded me a lot of Mary Roberts Rinehart and I liked it a lot. Certainly far more than I expected to, as the daughter of our intrepid heroine is seriously THE WORST. But her terrible-osity kickstarts are adventure, so so be it.
Open Road Books has been republishing digital editions of a number of Patricia Wentworth's non-Miss Silver mysteries (which are more in the vein of suspense novels) that have been out of print for a long time.While nothing can ever quite match the Miss Silver series, IMHO, I particularly enjoyed _The Dower House Mystery_.
It's got a very gothic and atmospheric setting and premise: in need of 200 pounds to send her teenage daughter to Egypt, widow Amabel Grey accepts her solicitor's challenge to live in the allegedly haunted dower house of the Forsham family for six months.
A really pleasant mystery. Some may find it dated, but I enjoyed the style.
Very enjoyable Gothic suspense taleIf you prefer more suspense than gore and violence, I think you'll really enjoy this mystery published in 1925 by the master storyteller Patricia Wentworth. As with any good Gothic thriller there's a decrepit mansion and cast of eccentric characters, as well as the delightful subplot romance involving a second chance after twenty years of estrangement.
