https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25739.Enemies
Herman Broder, who is Jewish, lives in New York with the shiksa who saved him from the Holocaust.
Naturally, when the war ends and he hears the terrible news that his wife and children were gunned down in a trench, he acts upon his gratitude and marries Yadwiga.
Eventually, by the novel's end, Herman is sleeping with and married to three women.
His experience during the war has rendered him Godless, yet he finds work writing devotional books and sermons for a local Rabbi, his training in the Talmud being deep.
This novel achieves a remarkable feat in that it makes a love quadrangle among four ex-pat holocaust survivors seem both traumatic and sexy, rather than traumatic and even more traumatic.
Herman is the (un)fortunate bigamist caught between his faithful peasant wife Yadwiga and runaway soul Masha as he struggles to adapt to his life of wartime memories and apparent freedom while ghostwriting Talmudic materials for a rabbi, despite having hurled God in the bucket—sort of.
Later in the novel, his presumed-dead wife Tamara turns up to complete the quadrangle, making Herman’s struggle for sanity, stability, identity, whatever, even grizzlier.
Πολύ ωραία η γραφή του Singer. Όμορφη ιστορία, συμπαθείς πρωταγωνιστές.
وقد جاءت النهاية كعادته مفتوحة ..
سؤال بدون إجابة ، ومصير مجهول،كل البشر نازيون في سلوكهم تجاه المخلوقات ، إذ يمثل الغرور الذي يتعامل به الإنسان مع الأنواع الأخري أشد النظريات العنصرية تطرفاً ، ويجسد المبدا الفائل بأن الحق للقوة
إن تامارا علي حق...إننا لم نعد أحياء منذ زمن طويل.رواية صعبة ...مرهقة ومربكة..بشخصيات عبثية حكم عليها بالتيه..شخصيات تدمرت وتحطمت منذ زمن طويل. لم يتبق منها سوي أشباح علي قيد الحياة.
كان فيه مشهد في فيلم Fury بين Brad pittوShia LaBeoufالمشهد كالتالي:Brad: لو أحب الفرد الحياة، فحب ال
Unfortunately, wake-up calls don't last long before I hit the snooze button once again...I loved this book because it made me laugh.
Then the overwhelming self-hatred comes back to play.
It's that not-real feeling that nothing is gonna matter anyway.) Laugh about one of the worst fates that could lie ahead: dying inside.
I'm not laughing, I'm crying.Why care about anything?
The answers aren't coming, not to the best of my star-gazing ability (is that an asteroid readying to destroy everything?) or shoe-gazing (the ground is opening up to swallow me whole).

قصة البولندي الذي يهاجر ويترك بلده هربا من النازية وهتلر بعد اقتناعة بان زوجته واولاده قد ماتوا واثناء حياتة في أمريكا يجد نفسة في وضع عاطفي غاية في الغرابة : ف هو يعيش بصحبة امرأه بولندية غير يهودية لانها انقذت حياته ويجد نفسة مدينا لها بالبقاء معها لانها لاتستطيع العيش بمفردها في أمريكا .
ويتخذ لنفسة عشيقة يهودية غريبة الطباع ويقع في حبها ويقرر الزواج منها .
قبل أن تكتمل الأحداث بأكتشافة بان زوجته علي قيد الحياه وانها موجوده كذلك في امريكا !!
رواية مميزة ولا أخفي إعجابي باسحق سنجر الذي كانت دوما كل رواياته في المستوي المطلوب
التشوه الذي يقع بسبب الحروب كيف يغير في النفس البشرية الروايه تتكلم علي اليهود الشرقيين ولكنها في رأي الخاص تتكلم عنا عن كل من شوهتهم ظروفهم الصعبه وجعلتهم وحوشا لا يستطيعون ان يعرفو طريق الصواب الروايه شديدة السوداويه والروعه معا
This is a deeply uncomfortable book.
The book goes from a discussion of ones children being shot to how do you make sure your mistress doesnt find out about your first wife coming back into your life while you placate your second wife.
Actually I am not entirely sure if it is meant to be a comedy so I am really just going off the blurb on the back on this one.
I found the juxtaposition of three deeply traumatized women stumbling around the equally traumatized Broder, whose magnetic attraction for all these women is never really explained, in a love square that alternated between the mundane and the grotesque pretty awful.
A fascinating read. The idea that the best and most pious Jews died in the Holocaust and the unscrupulous and dishonest were the natural survivors is fascinating. It seems somewhat blashphemous, but Singer pulls it off by having these broken, half-dead-by their-own-admissions characters wracked with survivors' guilt and trying to make sense of their lives. My only complaint is the over-emoting, purple prose that slips in and makes the narrative overblown at times.
إسحاق سنجر هو من اكثر الكتاب اليهود اثارة للجدل ربما بسبب التزامه باللغة الييدية في فترة كانت العبرية تسعى لإثبات وجودها. هذا الكتاب يحكي قصة اليهودي الذي لم يستطع مطلقا الخروج من سجن النازية الذي يطارده حتى في أميركا ومع تأزم الأمور معه وارتباطه بأكثر من زوجة في وقت واحد لا يستطيع ان يجد مخرجا من ازماته سوى الانطواء على نفسه اكثر فأكثر
Herman Broder is a Polish expatriate who survived the Holocaust by being hidden in a hayloft for 3 years.
Herman's love for each of his wives brings color, meaning, and passion to a life where the nightmares of anguish and the horrors of the Holocaust left death and despair.
In the novel there's a Yiddish saying that, "Ten enemies can't harm a man as much as he can harm himself." The author never passes judgment or draws a conclusion, though Herman is a case study of the truth of the Yiddish saying.
Too much spoilers in reviews, but also in the synopsis, almost ruined this one for me.
1/3 of the reviews should be flagged!
There's one reviewer who wrote, without inserting a spoiler alert : "The climax of the story is when he..."I'm never going to read reviews again, before reading a work of fiction.
So if I don't "like" your review of a fiction book that's on my to read list, you now know why ;)The story is rather far-fetched and dark, and the main character is extremely pathetic.
Nonetheless it kept my interest, because it was so well-written.
حتی ابدیت هم تا ابد پایدار نیست. اگر کائنات آغازی ندارد پس یک ابدیت سپری شده است.
رواية مركزة بالبؤس الشديد
But Herman - who had been unfaithful to Tamara and apparently was a pretty bad father - lies to Yadwiga about his job and takes a mistress, a concentration camp named Masha.
Tamara's devotion to Herman is especially difficult to understand.
But after everything he put her through during their marriage, it's a little difficult to understand her continued love for him, and Singer doesn't really provide an explanation.So some parts of "Enemies" are excellent - the parts about the Holocaust, and where the characters grapple with Judaism, God, and their path in life.
I read this because a respected columnist in the WSJ said is was one of the books every American interested in the history and development of this country should read.This was copyrighted in 1972 and at that time it probably was considered to be "cutting edge" writing.
The constant back-and-forth made for irritating reading.This is a quick read so if you're interested in American history after World War II, it might be worth your time.
Interestingly, I was reading this novel as I was finishing a pilgrimage to the Holy Land.
While much of the plot is dark and has the potential to be depressing, in a strange way, the author found a way to make this novel both humorous and hopeful.
While I am not saying the story wraps up in the end with a pretty little and that everyone lives happily every after, but I found myself closing the book at the finish and feeling satisfied.
I hope it is as good as this book.
I thoroughly enjoyed this witty tale of a man caught between two wives and a neurotic mistress; as well of a man paranoid that the Nazis are constantly following him.
Bordering on the verge of camp, and a witty and satirical look at marriage and the absurdity of American convention and religious tradition, it's a definite must read for those who enjoy comedy of the human condition.
The characters, Herman; his two wives, Tamara and Yadwiga, and the neurotic mistress, Masha are all fully formed, funny, sad and tragic human beings we all could relate to.
Just finished it....somehow makes the impossible, manageable...I mean the Holocaust is given a human face, somehow, enjoining it to the rest of Western History.
Here's the thing: it does it as a comical romp through the shenanigans of a polygamist who cannot decide with whom of his three wives to settle with .
"He was not a victim of Hitler.
He had been a victim long before Hitler's day" is Singer's take on the Herman Broder, the protagonist in this novel.
Yes, it's got a touch of the allegorical: Herr+Mann+Bruder is suspiciously similar to this novel's anti-hero's nam, Herman Broder.
This is Singer's first novel set in the United States.

This is an unusual story. I found it interesting more for its psychological exploration of its characters than for the story itself. The characters are all survivors of the Holocaust who have moved to America, but they all have issues to work through relating to their experiences, and most refuse to. This is not a story about polygamy so much as a story about a man who ends up with three wives because he hasn't been able to deal with his past.
دشمان ،یک داستان عاشقانه ؛ اما نه یک عاشقانه معمولی.سرگذشت یک یهودی که فلسفه خوانده و از دست نازی ها به امریکا فرار می کند. در دوران جنگ و تعقیب و گریز شاید اخلاقش تند و عصبی شده باشد.فرار به امریکا و یک مثلث عشقی همراه با فلسفه ، خیانت و آدم هایی که اعتقادشان به یهودیت در اثر جنگ دچارتغییر شده است.ترجمه احمد پوری ، نشر باغ نو
Well, to me, "enemies: a love story" is clearly not a love story.It is cruel, raw, dark, real and incredibly brilliant, but not fun.It shows the psicological repercutions war can have on someone and how we can still be alive, and have a rolé in society with out really being there. With out being anywhere at all.Deep stuff. Though stuff.
Singer should be read by more people than he seems to be. He writes about post-holocaust families in the US in the 1940s trying to assimilate to a new country while dealing with the past.A few bizarre twists to this novel, and not the most cheery, but Singer is a fantastic writer.
Για κάποιο λόγο αυτό το βιβλίο με έκανε να αισθανθώ άβολα και αμήχανα όταν το διάβαζα.
ان الكاتب يصف لنا حياة اليهود المهاجرين الى اميركا ومعاناتهم ابان حكم النازي من قتل وتعذيب في معسكرا
ويشترك معهما أيضا "نجيب محفوظ" فقد تذكرت وأنا أقرأ هذه الرواية قراءاتى القديمة لنجيب محفوظ، والتداعى الانحلالى لشخصيات تعميهم "كثافة أقدارهم"، والذى يسهّله تكنيك حرف العطف"واو" المستخدم بلا توقف لصغحات طوال تتداعى فيها أحداث وخواطر وأفكار تشترك كلها بضربة واحدة فى تدعيم "الكارثة".
ذلك أن العنصر المشترك بين سنجر ومحفوظ هو فكرة الكثافة الرمزية للانحلال كحقيقة مجردة، فكل جملة وكل خاطرة وكل حدث وكل علاقة تافهة أو مهمة بشخص فى الرواية، تحمل دلالة مكثفة وتنتظم سريعا فى تيار سريع "يعرف طريقه" وكل هذه الشخصيات والأسماء سيتم استدعائها أو حضورها بالمصادفة فى الحفل النهائى الذى تحتشد فيه الصدف ليصل البطل للمأزق النهائى الذى ستذوب فيه كل الوجوه وتتشابه فى دلالتها فيجرع الكأس حتى الثمالة.
