https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14358.A_Ring_of_Endless_Light
4.5 stars Re-read for our readalong discussion on Friday 4/24!------------------------------------------------------------------My favorite L'Engle book ever, about the formative summer when Vicky Austin's grandfather is dying and she meets a young marine biology student who teaches her to swim with dolphins.
I'm not sure any other YA author has ever come close to L'Engle's complex and intelligent story-telling with the Austin family, which is secure in its wisdom that everyday life is dramatic enough without having to invent other-worldly plot devices.
Well, except for (view spoiler)[the dolphin telepathy (hide spoiler)].
:DTo this day, whenever I see dolphins, I think of how L'Engle describes their skin as "resilient pewter." Amazing.

When the later controversy arose over the extent to which she'd thrown her own family into her fiction without much concern for their feelings, I didn't really know the fiction that might have been involved, so was just confused and saddened to hear about literary and family conflict for a favourite author.Another thing that had been floating in the back of my head for some years in an unresolved kind of way was what Connie Willis said about L'Engle.
Then came the Book Battle and reading A Ring of Endless Light, and those two disparate things fell into place in my head.
I read this book in fifth grade, and I loved it so much.
She deals with some really tough issues for a children’s book; suicide, death in the family, romance (seemingly not tough), unexpected death, the meaning of existance, etc.I’ve read some reviews that said this book doesn’t deserve a newbery honor.
They said that this book dealt with issues too deep, too dangerous for children.
This book didn’t bother me in fifth grade, and was the perfect introduction to those topics.
This is one of the best books I’ve ever read and upon re-reading, I can reaffirm that conviction.I want to keep this short because I have already fangirled enough to last a while but let me just say that this is such an important coming to age novel.
I love that she isn’t perfect and sometimes hides from the truth but she is also just fantastic.This book also comes with an entourage of great family members and great secondary characters (INCLUDING DOLPHINS).This is a powerful book and one I will continue to recommend 20-30 years from now because it will still be relevant and will still be important.
This is all about dolphins, adolescent life, death and regeneration of limbs in dolphins and the possibilities on human.Though the narrative was okay,the character descriptions was alright and the story line is some how muddied but I will give this book 2 stars.
In my youth I was on a L'engle tear having gone through the "Time" series...however I didn't get the memo that L'engle's writing ministry developed into one catered towards guiding pre-adolescent females through their awkward years.Needless to say, I caught on when I realized that the books really weren't speaking to me like the others were...and I quietly returned this one back to the library and saw that I was the only dude to read the book for the past decade...A good read nonetheless!
Loved this one. I can see why so many women say this was their favorite while growing up. Nice to see Vicky coming into her own. These books take me back to my own adolescence. I don't miss it but it's nice to visit.
I was a smart kid who loved books in a family of smart people who didn’t really read, and I wished my family were more like the Austins.Then I got older, and I found other books, and though I still considered this a favorite, I kept it in memory rather than reading it frequently.
Their grandfather looks wise, but it’s a superficial wisdom; there’s a part where they mention how popular his sermons were when he preached in a giant congregation, and I couldn’t help thinking that it was probably because he handed out comforting platitudes that didn’t challenge anyone’s faith or security.
Vicky is the most understanding and emotionally and psychologically aware 15-year-old girl that I've ever encountered, her vocabulary is way beyond her range (as evidenced by her use of "susurrate"), she talks and interacts with people like a 30-year-old, and after a 5 second conversation with anyone she immediately calms down and deals with whatever massive problem is in front of her with barely a tear or a murmur.
In the beginning, it seemed like it was trying to portray how a family and especially an adolescent deals with the act of their grandfather dying, but that got left to the wayside.
L'Engle seems to achieve that which Stephenie Meyer is, as yet, technically unable: a respectful, plausible narration of square pegs, alienated dreamers, and teens wiser than their years finding authentic connection. L'Engle's form is by no means flawless, but Meyer and others would do well to follow her lead and learn to show their protagonists' extraordinariness, not dictate, begging us to believe.
This is my favorite book ever. Or one of them, at least
I had to read Meet the Austins and The Moon by Night, the first two Austin Family novels, in eighth grade.
I reread the book so many times, the pages are coming out.Surprisingly, I never picked up A Ring of Endless Light until college.
I have since reread A Ring of Endless Light many times and find myself always crying at the end.The charm of A Ring of Endless Light and The Moon by Night is Vicky Austin's intense vulnerability.
She surprises herself when, in A Ring of Endless Light, she finds herself competing for the attention of her former fling Zachary and the kind-hearted Adam.
L'Engle does a great job of capturing Vicky's voice, and I empathize with her strongly.This book gets minus one billion billion stars for Zachary Gray - but plus a billion billion for Adam Eddington.
But Zachary is at his absolute worst in this book.
And by the end of the book, Vicky seems to have finally realized what a little twerp Zachary is.
How can you know Adam and still want to even look at Zachary?
And not just depressing like “being a teenager is hard”, but filled with an unrealistic amount of death and drama.
I hated Zachary and couldn’t understand what he was doing in the book, and the fact that Vicky didn’t just throw him to the curb made me like her much less.
I didn’t like Leo, either, and was only very meh about Adam.
And the dolphins were lovely.
But yeah, I had zero fun reading this and would have stopped a quarter into it if I didn’t feel like I had to keep going for the battle.
4.5 stars although note to my future self, never re-read this if you are sad because wow, this book packs a punch. I love Vicky and her family though. No one does families as well as L'Engle.Reviewed more in depth here at the YA/MG book battle
A real bummer to go and try to smile at my patients while I wake them at 6 am for meds and blood tests.Well, I give this one 4 stars, even if I have some serious issues with some parts of the book, but Vicky being a rather wonderful almost 16 year old girl, that felt realistic and rather sensible even being a dreamer and poet and one that didn’t feel like she had to do or give in or feel guilty-ed (not a word, I know, forgive me, I slept lil today!) into doing what any of the boys would want her to do, from Zachary pushing her (for goodness sake, HE’S BLOODY 20!?!), to Leo wanting to be more than she wanted and Vicky being very clear that she just wanted to be friends, and Adam… Adam pushing her away and also needing her and Vicky being mature enough to know she what she wanted but also respecting the boundaries as long as she was treated as someone mature enough to talk to and not a child to be condescending.
More Adam please :)
I think I was too caught up in the Vicky/Zachary drama to notice the pilot talking at the airport.I love the last bit at the hospital, where Binnie/Robin dies and Vicky goes into a fugue state, I think it captures the moment exceptionally well.
Zachary is not so easy to love, but L'Engle wants us to see that he's worthy of loving, just as worthy as the rest- in fact, she goes out of her way to make that point, I think.This is one of my favorite of all L'Engle's works, and probably the one I've read the most.
Most aren't worth commenting about...this book on the other hand left me a bit perplexed about how well I liked it.
The back of the book and the first few chapters it seemed like a realistic fiction coming of age/teen romance (yuck-in my opinion).
(Of course in this world that we live in, it is probably more realistic than I would care to admit.) However, she does make wise choices and for the right reasons.
And I love the ocean and the dolphins.I was surprised to learn that it is not realistic fiction and that it is one book in a series.

I LOVE this book it is amazing!
i've read this book about 5 times and i'm still not sick of it.it's about a girl named vicky who falls for a guy named adam.
he doesn't really think she's all that special until he realizes she can communicate w/ dolphins!
Then it becomes a battle for her heart because 3 guys are interested in her.
Lessons you can learn from this book is to not take life and your friends and family for granted because no one has them forever.
Also, it teaches you how to figure yourself out and know what you waant before you can find true love.:)
This realistic fiction book follows the life of a teenaged girl as she deals with the struggles of growing up. You would like this book if you like coming of age stories. The theme of A Ring of Endless Light is that life, though hard at times, is easier when family is there to help.
As I picked up A Wrinkle in Time to read for the second time, I was reminded, when looking through Madeline L’Engle’s other titles that I had read this book too...and I loved it (maybe even more). With A Wrinkle in Time being turned into a movie I have been reminded about this beloved children’s author!
It's beautifully written, has some strong messages, and is very relatable, especially for teenage girls (of which I was one when I first started loving the book).
While on the island, a friend of theirs, Captain Rodney, suffers a heart attack while rescuing a boy from a capsized sailboat.
When Vicky learns that the teenage boy rescued is a friend from the past, that just adds to the confusion.
I like Vicky's parents too; they are calm and insightful and add a lot to the story.When we get right down to it this book has a lot of romance in it as Vicky shares time with the three boys.
This is another one that really stands up to reread, I have to say.(view spoiler)[To start, can I just say:"You called me.""And I came."I'm also going to say that I will not be able to be objective about this book.
Zach with his insistence on trying to get everyone around him to shoulder his burdens and his inherent selfishness.I love Basil and Co. They're pretty excellent.I haven't read this book in years, but I remembered pretty much the entire thing.
That said, I think that's why the more supernaturalish elements of this jarred me slightly upon reread.
You should know that evolution isn't a choice!" (I can ignore the ambiguous phylum remark.) (hide spoiler)]Mostly, I just love this book.
I missed this book growing up, preferring L'Engle's more adventurous fantasies.
I picked this lovely gem of a book up in the library last year in the kids section, during a kind of "pilgrimage" to my local library, where I hadn't been in over ten years.
I read it in one sitting.It doesn't have the heart-stopping action of A Wrinkle in Time or the fantastic settings of A Wind in the Door, but it's a much more mature, thoughtful book.
It's a book that deals with death, burgeoning love, growing up, in ways that are neither condescending to teens nor pandering to today's strange wave of sexualized teen literature.
I was probably around 12 years old when I read this and I remember very well how much it appealed to my little heart.I think I might have also watched the movie and that's what drew me to the book.If I picked it up again today I would probably finish it in a few hours without batting an eyelid and that's no fun, so I'll keep my 12 year old impression of it... and say it was the most magical read I'd ever had.
I wanted to like this. I did. I like most of the rest of L'Engle's books, but something about this one just left me cold. I only read it once (also unusual for her books), but the image of the girl putting her clothes in the incinerator after the woman dies on her has stayed with me all this time.
I had a hard time believing the characters, their actions, and conversations. Also Vicky basicly having three boyfriends at once really bugged me.
