https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/182662.Catherine_the_Great
Catharine II, Empress of Russia, Henri Troyatتاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهارم آگوست سال 1993 میلادیعنوان: کاترین کبیر؛ نوشته: هانری (هنری) تروایا؛ مترجم: نادعلی همدانی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر فاخته، 1371، در 661 ص، مصور، عکس، چاپ دیگر: تهران، نگاه، 1382، در 600 ص؛ شابک: 964351980؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه کاترین دوم، امپراتریس روسیه، از 1729 تا 1794 - قرن 18 ما. شربیانی
Catharine II, Empress of Russia‬, Henri Troyatتاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهارم آگوست سال 1993 میلادیعنوان: کاترین کبیر؛ نوشته: هانری (هنری) تروایا؛ مترجم: نادعلی همدانی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر فاخته، 1371، در 661 ص، مصور، عکس، چاپ دیگر: تهران، نگاه، 1382، در 600 ص؛ شابک: 964351980؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه کاترین دوم، امپراتریس روسیه، از 1729 تا 1794 - قرن 18 ما. شربیانی
کسی که با خواندن زندگی اش برای اولین بار تصویر انسانی از زن دیدم نه تصویر زنانه از انسان.
زنی که نه قدیس است نه شیطان.با تمام تمایلات خوب و بد آدمی.
با تمام شکوه و جلال و خطاهای آدمی.تصویری از انسان در بالاترین سطح قدرت.خواندن از این زن حالم را خوب کرد.
و برای یکبار هم شده تصویری واقعی از زنی دیدم که می تواند با خصایل انسانی اش از قدرت گرفته تا هوس آدم ها را مجذوب یا دشمن خود کند*به کتاب سه ستاره دادم چون به گمانم هم نثر کتاب و هم ترجمه می توانست بهتر از این باشدآذر 94
This is a brilliant book on Catherine the Great and I was reminded of this author today by Kalliope, who had written a review on Tchaikovsky.This much acclaimed author, who had moved to France from Russia in the early twentieth century wrote some inspiring biograpies including amongst others, Ivan the Terrible and Dostoyevski.His greatest achievement, I feel, was being a member of the Academie Française until his death in 2007. Only those who excel stay there.A highly recommended book.
И също като Обама и след това не прави нищо да го заслужи, а само на думи е много модерна, либерална и просветена, но не променя с нищо положението на народа си и кара по старому, без да клати лодката, само с малко по-меки методи.Може би единственото, което я отличава от повечето останали руски владетели в положителен план е, че не потапя страната в кръв, не извършва масови погроми, убийства, мъчения и заточения в Сибир на собствения си народ - неща, типични за почти всеки владетел на Руската империя.Анри Троая отново се справя отлично с написването на поредната си автобиография на руска личност не в сухарския историографски стил, а по-литературно и четимо, запазвайки разбира се стриктна историческа достоверност.Иначе истинското име на "Екатерина" е София Августа Фредерика фон Анхалт-Цербст, защото е немска принцеса.
To start with, Catherine the Great is the best female leader in human history. I've been fascinated by her for many-many years. In my opinion, Henri Troyat's book is the most objective, beautifully written biography. I strongly recommend this book to anybody who is curious to learn more about the "Golden Age of Russia" and Catherine, as a ruler and a woman.
Catherine the Great (1729-1796) came to power through a coup d'etat after the assassination of her husband Peter III and relied on her countless lovers to access and maintain her grip on Russia.
She will expand Russian territory in the South by conquering Southern Ukraine and Crimea, to the West by partitioning and seizing part of Poland, and to the East by continuing the conquest of Siberia and the Far East.
While she was expanding the Russian empire, she had to satisfy herself with so-called Potemkin villages during her voyage to Crimea along the river Dnieper.
Another great book by Henri Troyat.Review by Bruno Gremez
Δεν μου άρεσε αυτό το βιβλίο. Μου αρέσουν τα ιστορικά βιβλία μου έχουν μια πιο λογοτεχνική και μυθιστορηματική γραφή αλλά νομίζω ότι εδώ ο συγγραφέας φτάνει στην υπερβολή, δείχνοντας ένα πάθος για εμένα ασυγχώρητο για αυτό το είδος των συγγραμμάτων.
I’m not fully checked out on most aspects of Russian history, and I didn’t know much about Catherine the Great aside from her reputation for promiscuity and the excellent Shaw one-act.
Imported to Russia from Germany in 1746 for one of those arranged marriages meant to cement political alliances (Frederick II was the German monarch), she found herself at fifteen married to a loutish son of reigning empress Elizabeth who expected her to start producing babies.
It would be a great mistake to see Russia's actions as inevitably heralding a new Cold War. But it would be an equal mistake to ignore the fact that Vladimir Putin has learned well how to play Catherine's impostor game.
Catherine took other lovers, learned Russian and gradually assembled a coterie of admirers and supporters.
Several figures, including Catherine, left memoirs but still, Troyat has clearly given himself permission to take novelish license in telling his story.
For example, here is Troyat describing what happened when Catherine's granddaughter, Alexandra, was about to be betrothed to the King of Sweden.
The young king had come to Russia and all had seemed well, but the two countries had not agreed whether Alexandra would be required to convert to Lutheranism or not.
One of Catherine’s principal glories is to have been a woman who, just as Elizabeth I of England and Queen Victoria gave their names to periods of history, became synonymous with a decisive epoch in the development of her country.At the end of Catherine’s reign, Russia had expanded westward and southward over an area of more than 200,000 square miles, and the Russian rulers’ ancient dream of access to the Bosporus Strait (connecting the Black Sea with the Aegean) had become an attainable goal.
Buena lectura, me gustó la manera en la que explica la evolución desde princesa alemana hasta emperatriz de todas las Rusias, contando sus relaciones con la nobleza europea y el pueblo ruso de la época y como esas interacciones la llevaron a conducirse de la manera en que lo hizo.
I have one major issue with the book and the is the sources that Troyat uses; memoirs and secondary litterature.
At times I was completely convinced that what I was reading was simply a 3rd person re-writing of Catherine's own memoirs.
The reason why I am such a big adversary of the use of memoirs in historical works is, that the writer of a memoir always have an ulterior motive with everything they write.
A very good biography, written with ease. Unfortunatelly every single person with the exception of Catherine herself is presented in a very one-dimensional way. Furthermore I felt uncomfortable when the author repeatedly used words like "retarded" to described Peter III and Pavel I. R.K. Massies biography of Catherine thus remains the best I have read.
A very good biography, written with ease. Unfortunatelly every single person with the exception of Catherine herself is presented in a very one-dimensional way. Furthermore I felt uncomfortable when the author repeatedly used words like "retarded" to described Peter III and Pavel I. R.K. Massie´s biography of Catherine thus remains the best I have read.
poco sospechaban sus padres que esa niña, de del todo deseada la madre prefería un varón ni tampoco demasiado agraciada, ocuparía a la edad de treinta y seis años el trono de Rusia con el nombre de Catalina II y que la historia la recordaría como Catalina la Grande.
La zarina acercó Rusia al resto del mundo, enriqueció sus ideas liberales con la amistad de Voltaire, Diderto y D'Alembert, fue una mujer inteligente y lúcida, trabajadora inagotable, déspota ilustrada y, también, amante entregada.Henri Troyat, con la agilidad y maestría que le son características, plasma en esta biografía el irrefrenable ascenso al poder de una mujer de insólita y sorprendente personalidad.Buenisimo, pura novela historica
To be honest, I had to put this book down unfinished. While it was a fantastic factual book, that's what it was. It was somewhere between a biography and a "based on fact" historical fiction. I had never read anything about Catherine The Great prior to this book and the one really good thing this book did was make me want to know more about her. I think I'll look up a different book that is more to my taste - "based on fact" historical fiction.
I had never read anything by this author and his translator. For as long as it sat on my bookshelf, I figured it was time to read it. The subject matter was completely unknown to me, and I was captivated by the life and times of this German-born Russian monarch. Subsequent documentaries were watched as a result. I will check out more of this author's work. A great, worthwhile read.
Въпреки че ще остане в историята като узорпаторка, свалила от престола законния престолонаследник Петър III и може би виновна за ранната му смърт, въпреки че остава на престола до края на живота си, а не го предава на сина си Павел, след неговото пълнолетие (както по право му се пада) , Екатерина пише със златни букви името си в руската история.
Готова на всичко - да обърне гръб на род и родина, да смени религията и името си, да спечели много врагове, както и в лицето на собствения си син, който никота не й прощава, германката си пробива път до голямата политическа сцена и се доказва като велик владетел.
Книгата за живота и царуването на Екатерина Велика е изключително интересна и увлекателна.
This is a thorough biography, regarded as the best ever written of this remarkable strong woman who ruled Russia for three decades.
Catherine's rule re-vitalized Russia, which grew stronger than ever and became recognized as one of the great powers of Europe.
Seems a unique, very strong, very willful woman Empress, through an unseemly decline and loss of Potemkin, portrayed in Henri Troyat's superb 1977 biography.
This literary tour de force paints an enthralling picture of Catherine, her seductions, her coaxings and her phenomenal devotion to politics and work, but it also brings the Russian court - with all its intrigues - brilliantly to life."
Книгата е написана биографично и е млако скучновата, не се доближава много до исторически роман, а по-скоро е по-биографична. Интересна е и е информативна, за тези, които искат да се запознаят с историята и живота на една велика жена. Очаквах да е по-интригуваща, по-увлекателна, не мога да кажа, че е много ми хареса, но научих доста неща, които не знаех и книгата е много обстойна биография и освен личният живот на Екатерина, описва и държавническите особености, политиката по време на нейното управление. Мисля, че всеки, който обича историята, трябва да я прочете.
One of the best books I have read this year so far. I absolutely loved it! A book about history and historic characters is not always easy to read, but this one was so well put together and I did not feel at any time that it was becoming boring or hard to grasp.
3,5. A very complete biography on Catherine the Great, too bad the writing bore me so much.
An icy wind blew through the room." But, as life is full of DMV moments, Catherine began to read books on the Roman Empire and the Enlightenment to assuage her boredom and loneliness; she wholeheartedly adopted Russian Orthodoxy (her Lutheran family back in Germany was not thrilled) and worked diligently to master her adopted language.
She was, says Troyat, "not marrying a face but a country," and I think he has brought diligence, good writing, and solid perspective to revealing how she brought her well-documented lust for life to the task.
I watched the Catherine Zeta-Jones "Catherine the Great" a few weeks ago and wanted to read the biography.
Catherine the Great was quite the interesting lady.
I hadn't read anything about Catherine the Great before really, just the small blurb she got in Terrible Tsarinas: Five Russian Women in Power by the same author.
I like it though I know some people don't, it makes biographies read more like a novel than as a long list of facts.
It was a small problem and I still loved the book.
The book is nothing really that groundbreaking for information about the Empress, but it is still an informative look at her life, loves and challenges as she tried to create a legacy of such a vast country.The book is a quick read, owing perhaps in part to very little being written about the political relationships of the time.
But as someone who's read fairly extensively about Russian history, I was a little disappointed that it wasn't more in depth and less gossipy about the Empress.
This biography of Catherine the Great, Empress of Russia, was written by Henri Troyat and published in 1977.
It detailed how Princess Sophia, of Anhalt-Zerbst (born in 1729) who at 15 married Peter Ulrich of Holstein, grandson of Peter the Great and possible heir to the throne of Russia.
Peter did become Emperor Peter III, and Catherine eventually became Empress Catherine II of Russia, and ruled Russia for decades on her own.
Catherine lived from 1729-1796, and was the most renowned and the longest-ruling female leader of Russia.
Troyat was born in Moscow in 1911, but fled with his and travelled around Europe and Asia before setting in Paris in 1920.
I have read and own another book on Catherine but this one grabbed my attention by Page 3.
I love Robert Massie and I have read his books on Peter The Great and The Romanovs.
Without a doubt one of the best book I have ever read, The writing and the research are absolutely outstanding.
This is really an important book about an amazing and outstanding woman and gives so much insight into her character as a woman and a ruler.
I am in awe of Robert Massie and Catherine The Gteat!
Information is taken from memoires but seems to contradict many other sources that I've read before, including the wonderful Massey biography.There are moments when I believe that Troyat is obsessed with Catherine and other moments when I think he shows complete disdain for her.
The point is that a good biography does not offer feelings but presents the facts.
Sometimes I felt that we drifted into historical fiction instead of a biography.Read with one eye open (consider the facts and check them).
If you love Catherine the Great (II), Mother of All the Russias, then you should read this.
While I enjoyed this, and anyone who takes a look at the books I've read will see history features h
Catherine the Great.
But I trust Henri Troyat to be as objective as he can be in a romanticized story about one of the most imposing monarchs in history.
Though not particularly fond of hard data in history, I am very drawn to any easy-access novel that makes me travel back in time.
Particularly at a time when my job is facing me with the Russian spirit, this book comes as a very good background when it comes to understanding Russian mentality.
I liked the approach, the intrigues.
I liked Catherine and how she got immersed in the slavic spirit.
Book Club Edition - hardcover
