https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1280771.Frost_in_May
4.5 starsThis is an autobiographical novel about life in a Catholic Girls school, quite closely based on White’s own life.
Like the protagonist of the novel, Nanda, White was a Catholic convert at the age of nine and was sent to a school very like the one in the book.
Help me to be good and make me a proper Catholic like the others."”The novel covers Nanda’s life from the age of nine to fourteen.
The novel vividly describes daily life in a convent school.
I don't think your will has been quite broken, my dear child, do you?' “The ending is very powerful and shocking, describing Nanda’s expulsion from the school.
After a Summer spent pulling off the shelf each and every cheapo Virago I ran across, accumulating a shelf=full (from left to right and vice=versa)--cheapo runs pretty much anything under three bucks or so ; six dollar used pb's is over doing it--I ran out onto the internets and ordered this one special (ninety=five cents, no shipping charge) because my shelf already contained its Trilogy Sequel.
This novel's sequel is a trilogy.
Which makes it a tetralogy and you know how much I love those--Rikki's got one two, Durrell's got one, who else?
School novels.
And paring it down slightly, Girlschool novels.
Here, we are between the wars, 1930, and the convent school is place of sheltered neutrality for the female children of the aristocracy and well-heeled merchant class.The Stations Of The CrossFor this reader, there was no disconnect from the days when I was under the guidance of much the same kind of organization.
Antonia White's characters are a study in natural opposites, and the girls are as intriguing as the nuns.
The nuns know this generally won't sell, of course, but play along gamely, since the least-likely amongst the girls just may-- well, we've seen all of this embodied by Julie Andrews and Hayley Mills in cinemascope, so not much use letting the secrets out.And the author has other ideas.
Although Callil had grown up in Australia, and not England, her own childhood spent at a Catholic boarding school meant that she had a deep kinship with this book - and felt that it really got at the truth, not only of institutional settings, but also the peculiar emotional and power of the Catholic faith and its traditions.
Nanda' father is a classics teacher, recently converted to Catholicism, and he wants his only child to experience the full-on Catholic immersion experience.
Her father decides to send Nanda to the convent school of The Five Wounds where she can be educated as a Christian and also learn much more about her newly adopted faith.
Nanda is extremely intelligent and has studied all the necessary books on the Catholic faith (she can answer any question her new religion with the ease of a girl much older).
There are all those little idiosyncrasies that go with living a faith until it just becomes part of you.Nanda is a very devout girl and has the zeal that most new converts have, they are often far more strict with themselves that those who were born Catholic.
Unforgettable story. I finished this 3 weeks ago and still don’t know quite how to review it. Almost anything I say about it will give the story’s ending away. It was somewhat spoiled for me in reading the blurb on the back cover (which I wish I hadn’t). So I’ll leave it at a story which felt like real life, so much so I wish it didn’t. Read it. Thanks for the recommendation Jo. Your review is excellent!
On the surface, this is a classic girls' school story, largely autobiographical, told with a simplicity that belies the book's underlying complexity. For it's a Catholic convent school, and recently converted Nanda has somewhat more to face there than the usual run of classes and tests, sports, and midnight feasts. White's portrayal of the school, the students, and the nuns is clear and unsparing, and I was surprisingly caught up in Nanda's experiences, particularly at the shattering ending.

It shouldn't be my memoir but I must add also that I went through a religious zeal (Catholic, of course), a kind of conversion from a rather passive belief (in my teenage years) and then, you could say, I broke free.Why I think it is important to write this here is that I felt many times the same way which Nanda felt.
It is a beautiful story about a growing up, about an exploration of belief, about what religion can do (bad and good things), how everyone must find own path.You can find here a beauty of faith (mostly Catholic, but in some way it is also more universal).
I went to a convent school in Australia of the same order of nuns as the ones who had Antonia White in their clutches for four crucial years of her childhood.
For anyone who has experienced the kind of schooling Nanda (and Antonia) underwent, this book is a masterpiece in its expose of the motivations of the Catholic Church in reducing people to helplessness in its power.
An abbreviated bildungsroman of an early teenaged Anglo-Catholic girl whose three years in a convent school bring her to the realization that however ardent her faith, the thrill she gets from art and literature frequently exceeds the one she's expected to be feeling from religion.Based, apparently, on White's own life, the author's life-long religious practice does not inhibit her from presenting Catholicism of the early 20th century in its most Gothic aspect.
From the name of the convent ("the Five Wounds") through the endless tales of mortification and sacrifice to which the girls are subjected, the overheated atmosphere also contributes to ardent boarding-school friendships, despite the nuns' best efforts to inhibit them.
They insinuate themselves into her life and pull it apart piece by piece, in order to make her up anew in the holy image of the Catholic child, an unattainable goal for a girl whose father only converted when she was aged eight.The penultimate adventure in that classic of the school-novel, the epidemic of measles menas glorious days cloistered in the heavenly comforts of the sick-room with the three friends she has, by some miracle, managed to foster despite the school's policy to the contrary.
Naturally, this is her undoing.The utter degradation, willingly undertaken, of living a life in service to something higher is foreign to me, but the subjecting of children to the same is frankly barbaric, and though the ending was harsh, and shocking, and good because of it, I finished the book angry, upset, and thoroughly out of sorts.
My two favourite things in this book1) The headmistress's speech to the girls, that old staple of school stories, runs as follows."Some of that severity which to the world seems harshness is bound up in the school rule which you are privileged to follow .... We work today to turn out, not accomplished young women, nor agreeable wives, but soldiers of Christ, accustomed to hardship and ridicule and ingratitude."AWESOME.2) Leonie de Wesseldorf. omg omg what an awesome character.
Frost in May is the story of Nanda Grey a young catholic convert during her four years at the Five Wounds convent school.
Yet one of the things the convent see itself as being responsible for, is the breaking of wills, so that they can be re made for God. This is a rather disturbing idea.
The end is shocking in it's way.Antonia White does seem to have been making fun at times of a Catholic education at this time, and I am sure is deliberately highlighting the horrors that a catholic girls boarding school can hold for a child.I found this very enjoyable although although a little meloncholic

White clearly conveys Nanda's experience of her youth, but it's tempered with an adult understanding, and an unconventional one, not "but it all worked out fine in the end" but "this was only for a short time." (Nanda's father keeps a treasure box of his own early life labelled Haec Olim, from the Aeneid's "haec olim meminisse iuvabit," "even these things it will someday be pleasant to recall," and that's what we're working with here.)Nanda Grey is nine at the beginning of Frost in May, when she is sent to Lippington, a convent school where girls, alongside all their usual lessons, they learn about the lifelong regret of a girl who accidentally ate a piece of candy right before her first Communion.
I found the description of her over time very convincing - from a child, unsure of herself and eager to please, to a teenager developing ideas and interests of her own and becoming increasingly aware of the dilemmas and injustices of life.The descriptions of Nanda's religious struggles are also realistic to me.
One of the nuns, towards the end of the book, states that their aim is to 'break the will of the girls' and this is the part that Nanda struggles with, she will not submit.
But the ultimate act of cruelty for me was the way Nanda's leaving the school was handled, done in such a way as to ruin her relationship with her father.
I really enjoyed the first few chapters of this which I picked up and read in a library, although once I had bought a copy to continue with it the rest didn't quite live up to that beginning.
If I was her I'd be depressed to read what I am writing now - apparently she had writers' block for another 20-odd years after Frost in May. I enojoyed this but found the ending of the plot a bit difficult to swallow: basically she wrote a slightly racy novel around the age of 13, the nuns found it and poor Nanda, for that is the name of the Jackie Collins-a-like heroine of the story, spent the next 24 hours feeling faint from fear for what the nuns would do to her.
Quite a nice look at the conflict between the spiritual appeal of religions like Catholicism and the cult-like tendencies that can creep in.
The ending did feel a little abrupt, despite the real-life basis, and there's a few things here and there that modern-day readers would probably have less patience for, so this gets four instead of five stars.
One thing I'd like to add: the writing didn't seem "twee" but rather appropriate for when the book was written (1933) and, in fact, better than some other things I've read from that time period.
(Just check out the lines from Nanda's novel, yikes.)
In the years before the First World War Fernanda Grey, whose parents have converted to Catholicism, goes to a convent school. Despite her own fervent protestations of faith she is never quite assimilated and her tendency to have passionate exclusive friendships is just one of the things that the nuns frown on.The ending is very sudden and it cries out for a sequel, but as far as I know there wasn't one.
The first in White's quartet of semi-autobiographical novels. This one, from 1933, follows a young girl Nanda Grey - who in later novels morphs into the character of Clara Batchelor - as she struggles to cope with the requirements and privations of convent-school life. White writes in lyrical, sensuous prose and this is a compelling story, as are the others in the series.
It is difficult to talk about this novel because anything one needs to say will invariably give away the ending.
As pointed out by Elizabeth Bowen in the introduction, it is a school-days novel for adults but written in a child's language, which is appropriate since we are seeing everything from an 8-13 year old girl's point of view.
I kept thinking something horrendous out of the Magdalen Sisters was about to happen (mercifully, nothing that bad ever did).
Her convent school experiences and the difficult relationship with her father left her with crippling self-doubt.
The book had lots of different characters in it since it was set at a school but the problem I found was they randomly without ant explanation jumped big chunks of time and didn't explain so you would be reading and discover one of the characters had just died.
But I liked most aspects of the book.Something I learned from this book was that modern classic books tend to be a bit odd because they jump forward in time suddenly.
These days we have come to expect any book set in a Catholic girls' school to be full of stories of evil nuns and ritualistic abuse.
As the girls progress through the school, however, we begin to see little rebellions, and hope that they will come through the whole dispiriting business relatively unscathed.
I have very little knowledge of Catholicism, and although some things will have undoubtedly changed, I am sure some of the attitudes expressed in this book have not.
Religious schools and instruction are often in the news these days, and considering that this book was written over 80 years ago, it seems that people have been taking issue with the subject for many years.

I thought I would hate this ...
The book followed a catholic convert, Nanda Grey, entering the Convent of the Five Wounds and the trials and tribulations of her schooling years.
It was quite well written, with a nice flowing prose without being too descriptive (which really does bother me), and it wasn't too heavy in Catholic(ness) which was a mercy.
It is interesting how I, with regular monotony, liked and hated the central character in equal measure as we trundled through the book until the end when I just wanted to shout 'Oh for Christ's sake harden up will you' ...
Wonderful, beautifully detailed novel, the first half more so than the second.
This (autobiographical) story is firstly about a girl's experiences at a Catholic school, and secondly about the girl's relationship with her father.I was spoiled about the ending, but that only meant I spent the last half of the book feeling that gradual, overwhelming horror of watching a traimwreck.What added the extra dimension to an already-good novel was knowing that this was 'real,' and based on what happened to Antonia White herself.
Wonderful, terrible and horrifying.This book assumes, and can be more fully appreciated with, a little background knowledge of Catholicism, in my opinion.
I read this in a day after being laid up after a nasty fall.
Although beautifully written and well rounded characters I found the subject matter disturbing.
The so called education of these young girls was nothing but brain washing and their individualism was completely squashed.
I dread to think the kind of life Nanda would have after she left the school.
It was a man made, narrow and restrictive education which, to me, has nothing at all to do with loving god and your fellow man or to do with leading a good and decent life.
At first I found this book rather boring, but towards the middle it picked up pace.
The ending was a bit abrupt, but it's no doubt well written.
However, it's terrifying.
Every time I read a bit, I left feeling unsettled.
I'm so glad it's over, and thank whatever exists in the beyond and is good, that I was not born Catholic, mor did I ever have to go to a Catholic boarding or day school.
Not meant to offend anyone whom this religion works for-we find faith on our own path, and I know things have undoubtedly changed since this book was written.
The story of Nanda Grey who starts attending boarding school at the Convent of Five Wounds. It was an interesting insight into life in a catholic convent school, I'm glad I didn't go to one like this! A lot of it was based on the author's own life. I loved Leonie de Wesseldorf right from the first description of her. I don't like this cover. For some reason the sad looking wee girl picture reminds me of those 'tragic childhood' books you get :\
